I am no coward; on the contrary, like most men whose physical energy is unimpaired, I am constitutionally
fearless, and in moments of danger and excitement have never found myself wanting; still it
would be affectation to deny that the prospect of a sudden and violent death, thus unexpectedly
forced upon me, impressed my mind with a vague sensation of terror, mingled with regret for
the past, and sorrow for the future. To be thus cut off in the bright spring-time of vigorous
manhood, when the warm blood of youth dances gladly through the veins, and every pulse throbs
with the instinct of high and noble daring--to die with hopes unattained, wishes ungratified,
duties unperformed--to leave those we love without one parting look or word to struggle on
through this cold unsympathising world alone and unprotected--and, above all, to lose one's
life in an act the lawfulness of which was more than questionable--all these things contributed
to form a picture, which it required either a very steadfast or an utterly callous heart to
enable one to gaze upon without blanching. I thought of the misery I should entail upon my
family; how, instead of fulfilling my father's dying injunctions to take his place, and devote
myself to comfort and protect them, I should wound my mother's heart anew, and spread the dark
mist of sorrow over the fair prospect of my sister's young existence; and I cursed my fastidious
folly in objecting to the toast, to which, in my self-accusation, I traced all that had afterwards
occurred. Then, with the inconsistency of human nature, I began to speculate upon what would
be Clara Saville's feelings, were she to learn that it was to prevent the slightest breath
of insult being coupled with her name that I was about to peril, not only my life, but, for
aught I knew, my hopes of happiness here and hereafter. As the last awful possibility occurred
to me, the burden of my misery became too great for me to bear, and, retiring to the privacy
of my own chamber, I flung myself on my knees, and poured ~176~~forth an earnest prayer for
pardon for the past, and deliverance for the future.

When I again returned to my sitting-room my mind had nearly recovered its usual tone, and I
felt prepared to meet and to go through whatever might be before me with calmness and determination.
As I was uncertain how long it might be before Lawless would arrive, I resolved, in order to
avoid the horrors of suspense, to employ myself, and taking up the mathematical treatise upon
which I was engaged, and by a vigorous effort of mind compelling my attention, I read steadily
for about half an hour, at the end of which time the sound of hasty footsteps was heard ascending
the stairs, and in another minute the door was flung open, and Lawless and Archer entered the
apartment.

"Reading mathematics, as I'm a slightly inebriated Christian!" exclaimed Archer, taking the
book out of my hands; "well, if that isn't pretty cool for a man who may be going to be shot
at six o'clock to-morrow morning, for anything he knows to the contrary, I'm no judge of temperature."

"Oh! bother mathematics," rejoined Lawless, flinging the book which Archer held out to him
at a bust of Homer adorning the top of my bookshelves, which it fortunately missed--"Frank,
old boy! it's all right--you're not to have a bullet through your lungs this time--shake hands,
old fellow! I'm so glad about it that I've--"

"Drunk punch enough to floor any two men of ordinary capacity," interposed Archer.

"Of course I have," continued Lawless, "and I consider I've performed a very meritorious act
in so doing;--there was the punch, all the other fellows were gone away, somebody must have
drunk it, or that young reprobate Shrimp would have got hold of it; and I promised the venerable
fish-fag his mother to take especial care of his what do ye call 'ums--morals, isn't it? and
instil by precept, and--and--"

"Example," suggested Archer.

"Yes, all that sort of thing," continued Lawless, "a taste for, that is, an unbounded admiration
of, the sublime and beautiful, as exemplified under the form of--"

"Rum punch, and lashings of it," chimed in Archer; "but suppose you were to tell Fairlegh all
that has passed since he came away, or let me do it for you, whichever you like best."

"Oh! you tell him, by all means,--I like to encourage ingenuous youth; fire away, Archer, my boy!"

~177~~Thus urged, Archer informed me that upon my departure there had been a somewhat stormy
discussion, in which the events of the evening were freely canvassed; and at last they came
to a unanimous decision that any man was at liberty to withdraw, if a toast was proposed to
which he objected, and that, if the toastmaster preferred giving it up rather than allow him
to leave the party, he had a perfect right to do so. This being the case, they decided that
Wilford, having been in the wrong, ought to confess he had spoken hastily, and that, if he
would do so, and would add that he had meant nothing offensive either to me or Oaklands, there
the matter might rest. This for a long time he positively refused to do; at length, finding
he could get no one to support him, he said that, as I had owned I was wrong in attempting
to prevent his expressing his opinion, he considered that, in all other respects, I had behaved
in a gentlemanly way; therefore, if he had said anything which implied the contrary, he was
willing to withdraw it. But, in regard to Mr. Oaklands, he considered he had interfered in
a very uncalled-for manner; and he could only repeat, if that gentleman felt himself aggrieved
by anything he had said, the remedy was in his own hands. As soon as he had spoken he withdrew.

The question was again debated, and at length they came to the conclusion that what Wilford
had said amounted to an ample apology as far as I was concerned, which I was bound to accept;
and that Oaklands, having agreed to consider the quarrel mine, could not take any further notice
of it; therefore, the affair was at an end.

"Well," said I, as he finished his recital, "I must ever feel grateful to you both for the
trouble you have taken on my account, and the kind feeling you have shown towards me throughout.
I will not pretend to deny that I am very glad the matter has been amicably arranged, for,
circumstanced as I am, with everything depending upon my own exertions, a duel would have been
ruin to me; but I must say I think the whole business thoroughly unsatisfactory, and it is
only my conviction that a duel would make matters worse, instead of mending them, which leads
me to agree to the arrangement. I sincerely hope Oaklands will not hear what Wilford said about
him, for he is fearfully irritated against him already."

"I'll tell you what it is," interrupted Lawless; "it's my belief that Wilford's behaviour to
you to-night was only assumed for the sake of provoking Oaklands. ~178~~Master Stephen hates
him as he does the very devil himself, and would like nothing better than to pick a quarrel
with him, have him out, and, putting a brace of slugs into him, leave him--"

"Quivering on a daisy," said Archer, completing the sentence. "Really I think," he continued,
"what Lawless says is very true; you see Oaklands' careless, nonchalant manner, which is always
exactly the same whether he is talking to a beggar or a lord, gives continual offence to Wilford,
who has contrived somehow to exact a sort of deference and respect from all the men with whom
he associates till he actually seems to consider it his right. Then, Wilford's overbearing
manner irritates Oaklands; and so, whenever they have met, the breach has gone on widening,
till now they positively hate one another."

"How is it you are so intimate with him?" asked I; "for nobody seems really to like him."

"Well, hang me if I can tell," replied Lawless; "but, you see he has some good points about
him, after all; for instance, I never saw him out with the hounds yet that he didn't take a
good place, aye, and keep it too, however long the run and difficult the country. I killed
the best horse I had in my stables trying to follow him one day in Leicestershire last season;
my horse fell with me going over the last fence, and never rose again. Wilford, and one of
the whips, who was merely a feather-weight, were the only men in at the death. I offered him
three hundred guineas for the horse he rode, but he only gave me one of his pleasant looks,
and said it wasn't for sale."

"You've seen that jet-black mare he rides now, haven't you, Fairlegh?" asked Archer.

"Yes; what a magnificent creature it is!" was my reply.

"Did you ever hear how he came by it?"

On my answering in the negative, Archer continued: "Well, I wonder at that, for it was in everybody's
mouth at one time: it's worth hearing, if it were but to show the determined character of the
man. The mare belonged to Lord Foxington, Lord Sellborough's eldest son. I believe he gave
five hundred guineas for her. She was a splendid animal, high-couraged, but temperate. In fact,
when you were on her she hadn't a fault, but in the stable she was a perfect devil; there was
only one man who dared go near her, and he had been with her from the time she was a filly:
so that, when Foxington bought the mare ~179~~he was forced to hire the groom too. The most
difficult thing of all was putting on the bridle; it was generally half an hour's work before
she would let even this groom do it. After dinner one day Foxington began talking about this
animal, saying what a brute she was to handle, and adding what I have just told you, as to
the impossibility of putting on the bridle, when Wilford, who was present, made some remark,
which showed he did not believe in the impossibility. Upon which Foxington inquired whether
he doubted the fact he had just heard? Wilford replied that he was sure his lordship fully
believed in the truth of what he had just stated; but, for his own part, he had so often found
impossibilities of this nature yield to a little courage and determination, that he confessed
he was somewhat sceptical. Now, it so happened that Foxington, soon after he bought the mare,
had thought just as Wilford did, and determined that he would put the bridle on. Accordingly
he attempted it, and the matter ended by his getting regularly driven out ol the stable by
the animal, with a tolerably severe bite in the fleshy part of his shoulder. Wilford's remark,
therefore, as may be imagined, rather nettled him; and he inquired, somewhat tartly, whether
Wilford believed he could put the bridle on? and, if so, whether he were willing to try? Wilford
replied, in his usual cool tone, that he had an idea he could do so, but that he had no particular
inclination to try, as it would probably be some trouble, and the weather was too hot to render
active exertion desirable. At this Foxington laughed derisively, saying that it sounded very
like a put-off. 'Not at all,' returned Wilford; 'and to show you that I never say a thing without
being ready to act up to it, I am willing to stake five hundred guineas against the mare herself
that I go up to her and put the bridle on without any assistance, and without a stick or anything
whatsoever in my hands.' Foxington accepted the bet gladly, reckoning himself safe to pocket
the five hundred guineas. The affair was to come off the next morning at Foxington's stables,
at eleven o'clock. His lordship had invited all the men who had been present when the bet was
made to come and witness the event, expecting a complete triumph over Wilford. While they were
standing about waiting Foxington told them of his own attempt, and his conviction, from the
experience he had then gained, that the thing could not be done; and the general opinion was
that Wilford, under the influence of wine, had foolishly boasted of a thing which he would
~180~~not be able to accomplish, and was certain to lose his money. As the time drew near,
and he did not make his appearance, an idea began to gain ground that he meant to shirk the
affair altogether; and Foxington was becoming exceedingly irate, when, just as the clock was
on the stroke of eleven, the sound of a horse's feet was heard, and Wilford cantered quietly
up, looking as if he felt no personal interest whatever in the event. On his arrival they proceeded
at once to the stable in which the mare stood. She was kept in a loose box, with her clothes
on, but her head entirely free.

"I ought, by-the-by," said Archer, interrupting himself, "to have told you that I had the account
from a man who was there at the time, and saw the whole thing.

"Well, as soon as they went into the stable, the mare left off feeding, and, turning round
so as to face them, stood with her ears pricked up, gazing wildly at them. Wilford just glanced
at her, and then leisurely divested himself of his coat, waistcoat, and neckcloth, turned up
the wristbands of his shirt, and, taking the bridle from the groom, announced that he was ready.
As soon as the door was open, Wilford fixed his eyes sternly on the mare, and walked towards
her. To the surprise of every one the animal allowed him to approach quietly and pat her, without
showing any symptoms of vice. Men began to exchange inquiring glances with each other, and
those who had betted heavily against him trembled for their money; but Foxington, who was better
acquainted with the animal, exclaimed, 'Wait a minute, he has not tried to touch her head yet'.
Wilford now moved his hand forward along the neck, patting her, and speaking soothingly to
her as he advanced; but, as he approached the head, she became impatient and fidgety, and when
he attempted to take hold of the ear, in order to put on the bridle, she flung up her head,
reared, and ran back a few steps, where she stood, shaking her mane and pawing the ground.
After remaining in this position a few seconds, she suddenly laid back her ears, and, showing
the whites of her eyes, ran at Wilford with her mouth wide open, and as soon as she got within
distance made a ferocious bite at him. By springing on one side with great agility he just
contrived to avoid it; then, dropping the bridle, he threw himself into a sparring attitude
(you know he's a capital boxer), and, as the mare again ran at him, hit out, and, striking
her just on a particular spot by the ear, brought her down like a bullock. As soon as she recovered
her legs she renewed the attack, and Wilford ~181~~received her as before, delivering his blow
with the same coolness and precision. When the animal rose the second time she seemed partially
stunned, and stood for a moment with her head hanging down and her ears drooping; but on Wilford's
making a step towards her she again plunged forward, and attempted to seize him with her teeth.
Once more did Wilford evade her bite by springing on one side, and seizing his opportunity
succeeded in planting his hit, and, for the third time, felled her to the ground. When she
again rose, however, she showed no disposition to renew the attack, but stood trembling violently,
with the perspiration running down her sides. She now allowed Wilford to approach her, to stroke
her head, pull her ears, and finally to put the bridle on, and lead her out, completely conquered;
and so my Lord Foxington lost the best horse in his stables, and Wilford gained his bet, and
added to his character for invincibility, which, by the way, he cared about much the most."

"It was a bold deed," returned I, as Archer concluded his story, "but one does not like a man
the better for having done it; there seems to me a degree of wanton cruelty in punishing an
animal so severely, unless he had been actually forced to do it. Public executioners may be
necessary for the prevention of crime; but that is no reason why one need volunteer as an amateur
hangman."

"Everybody thought it an uncommonly plucky thing at the time, and there was an immense fuss
made with him afterwards," replied Archer.--"Why, Lawless, are you asleep? rouse up, man--to
bed--to bed. Good-night, Fairlegh, you'll sleep all the better for knowing you are not to be
shot at cock-crow."

So saying, he took Lawless by the arm and marched him off, though, it must be confessed, his
gait, as he descended the stairs, was somewhat unsteady.~182~~

CHAPTER XXIII -- WHAT HARRY AND I FOUND WHEN WE LOST OUR WAY

     "It is too true an evil--gone she is.

     Unhappy girl!    Ah! who would be a father!"

ON the afternoon of the day after Lawless's wine-party Oaklands and I were walking down to
the stables where his horses were kept (he having, in pursuance of his plan for preventing
my over-reading myself, beguiled me into a promise to ride with him), when we encountered Archer.

"I suppose you have heard the news par excellence," said he, after we had shaken hands.

"No," replied I, "what may it happen to be?"

"Only that Lizzie Maurice, the pastry-cook's daughter, disappeared last night, and old Maurice
is going about like a distracted creature this morning, and can't learn any tidings of her."

"What, that pretty girl with the long ringlets, who used to stand behind the counter?" asked
I. "What is supposed to have become of her?"

"Yes, that's the identical young lady," returned Archer. "All that seems to be known about
her is, that she waited till her father went out to smoke his pipe, as he usually does for
an hour or so every evening, and then got the urchin who runs of errands to carry a bundle
for her, and set out without saying a word to any one. After she had proceeded a little way,
she was met by a man muffled up in a cloak, who took the bundle from the boy, threw him a shilling,
and told him to go home directly. ~183~~Instead of doing so, however, he let them proceed for
a minute or two, and then followed them. They went at a quick pace along one or two streets,
and at length turned down a lane, not far from the bottom of which a gig was waiting. Another
man, also muffled up, was seated in the gig, into which the girl was handed by her companion,
who said to the second man in a low tone, 'All has gone well, and without attracting notice'.
He then added in a warning voice--'Remember, honour bright, no nonsense, or'--and here he sunk
his voice so that the boy could not catch what he said; but the other replied, 'On my word,
on my honour!'' They then shook hands; the second man gathered up the reins, drew the whip
across the horse, which sprang forward at speed, and they were out of sight in a moment. The
person who was left gazed after them for a minute or so, and then, turning briskly on his heel,
walked away without perceiving the boy, who stood under the shadow of a doorway. On being questioned
as to what the men were like, he said that the first kept his face entirely concealed, but
he was rather tall, and had black hair; the second was a stout man, with light hair and a high
colour--for a dark lantern which he had in the gig with him happened to throw its light on
his face as he was lighting it."

"At what time in the evening did all this take place?" inquired Oaklands.

"Between nine and ten," replied Archer. Oaklands and I exchanged glances; the same idea had
evidently struck us both.

"Has any one seen Wilford this morning?" asked Oaklands.

"Seen him!" returned Archer; "yes, to be sure, he and Wentworth have been parading about arm
and arm all over the town: they were with me when I met poor old Maurice, and asked him all
sorts of questions about the affair. Wilford seemed quite interested for him."

"Strange!" observed Oaklands musing. "I don't make it out. I would not willingly wrong, even
in thought, an innocent man. Archer," he continued, "you have a shrewd keen wit and sound judgment;
tell me in confidence, man, who do you think has done this?"

"Nay, I am no diviner to guess other men's secrets," replied Archer; "and these are subjects
about which it is not over safe to hazard conjectures. I have told you all I can learn about
it, and it is for you to draw your own conclusions, It is no use repeating things to you of
~184~~which you are already aware; I might as well tell you dogs bark and cats mew--that Wilford
has black hair, and Wentworth is a stout man with a high colour--or any other well-known truism.
But I am detaining you--good-morning." So saying, he shook hands with us and left us.

After walking some distance in silence Oaklands exclaimed abruptly: "It must be so! it is Wilford
who has done this thing--you think as I do, do you not, Frank?"

"I am sure we have not evidence enough to prove it," replied I; "but I confess I am inclined,
as a mere matter of opinion, to agree with you, though there are difficulties in the way for
which it is not easy to account. For instance, why should Wilford have gone to that party last
night and have incurred the risk of entrusting the execution of his schemes to another, instead
of remaining to carry them out himself?"

"That is true," said Oaklands thoughtfully, "I do not pretend to understand it all clearly;
but, somehow, I feel a conviction that Wilford is at the bottom of it."

"You should recollect, Harry, that you greatly dislike this man--are, as I conceive, prejudiced
against him--and are therefore, of course, disposed to judge him harshly."

"Yes I know all that; still you'll see it will come out, sooner or later, that Wilford is the
man. Her poor old father! I have often observed how he appeared to doat upon that girl, and
how proud he was of her: his pride will be converted into mourning now. It is fearful to think,"
continued Oaklands, "of what crimes men are guilty in their reckless selfishness! Here is the
fair promise of an innocent girl's life blighted, and an old man's grey hairs brought down
with sorrow to the grave, in order to gratify the passing fancy of a heartless libertine."
He paused, and then continued, "I suppose one can do nothing in the matter, having no stronger
grounds than mere suspicion to go upon?"

"I should say nothing likely to be of the slightest benefit," replied I.

"Then the sooner we get to horse the better," returned Oaklands; "hearing of a thing of this
kind always annoys me, and I feel disposed to hate my species: a good gallop may shake me into
a better humour."

"And the dolce-far-niente?" I inquired.

"Oh! don't imagine me inconsistent," was the reply. "Only somehow, just at present, in fact
ever since the ~185~~breeze last night, I've found it more trouble to remain quiet than to
exert myself; so, if you would not tire me to death, walk a little faster, there's a good fellow."

After a brisk ride of nearly two hours along cross-roads, we came out upon a wild heath or
common of considerable extent.

"Here's a famous place for a gallop," exclaimed Oaklands; "I never can make up my mind which
is the fastest of these two horses; let's have a race and try their speed. Do you see that
tall poplar tree which seems poking its top into the sky on the other side the common? that
shall be the winning-post. Now, are you ready?"

"All right, go ahead," replied I, bending forward and giving my horse the rein. Away we went
merrily, the high-couraged animals bounding beneath us, and the fresh air whistling round our
ears as we seemed to cut our way through it. For some time we kept side by side. The horse
Oaklands rode was, if anything, a finer, certainly a more powerful animal than the one on which
I was mounted; but this advantage was fully compensated by the fact of his riding nearly a
stone heavier than I did. We were, therefore, on the whole, very fairly matched.

After riding at speed, as well as I could reckon, about two miles, Oaklands, to his great delight,
had gained nearly a horse's length in advance of me--a space which it seemed beyond my powers
of jockeyship to recover. Between us, however, and the tree he had fixed on as our goal lay
a small brook or water-course near the banks of which the ground became soft and marshy. In
crossing this the greater weight of man and horse told against Oaklands, and gradually I began
to creep up to him. As we neared the brook it struck me that his horse appeared to labour heavily
through the stiff clay. Now or never, then, was my opportunity; and shouting gaily, "Over first,
for a sovereign--good-bye, Harry," I gave my horse the spur, and, putting him well at it, cleared
the brook splendidly, and alighted safely on the farther bank.

Determined, if possible, not to be outdone, Harry selected a point, by crossing at which he
could contrive to cut off a corner, and thus gain upon me considerably. In order to accomplish
this it was necessary for him to take his leap at a spot where the brook was some feet wider
than ordinary. Relying, however, on the known good qualities of the animal he rode, he resolved
to attempt it. Settling himself firmly in his saddle, he got his horse well together, and then
throwing up his whip-hand and (as Lawless ~186~~would have termed it) "sticking in the persuaders,"
he charged the brook at speed.

It was a well-imagined and bold attempt, and, had his horse been fresher, would have succeeded
in winning the race; but we had kept up a fair pace during the whole of our ride, and now our
gallop across the common, and more particularly the severe pace over the marshy ground, had
tried his horse's wind considerably. Still, however, the noble animal strove to the utmost
of its power to answer the call made upon it, and by a vigorous effort succeeded in clearing
the brook; but the ground on the other side was rugged and broken, and, apparently exhausted
by the exertion he had made, he stumbled, and after a slight struggle to preserve his footing
fell heavily forward, pitching Harry over his head as he did so.

Fortunately the ground was soft and clayey, and neither man nor horse seemed to have sustained
any injury, for I had scarcely time to draw rein ere they were on their legs again, and, as
Harry's first act was to spring lightly into the saddle, I determined to secure the race at
once; and cantering up to the poplar tree, which was now within a hundred yards of me, I snapped
off a bough in token of victory. As I turned back again I observed that Harry had dismounted
and was examining his horse's foot.

"Nothing wrong, is there?" asked I, as I rejoined him.

"Yes, everything's wrong," was the reply; "you've been and gone and won the race, you villain
you--I've tumbled nose and knees into a mud-hole, and spoiled my white cord oh-no-we-never-mention-ums--and
'the Cid' has wrenched off one of his front shoes in the scrimmage."

"And that's the worst of all the misfortunes," said I, "for here we are some ten or twelve
miles from Cambridge at least, in a region utterly unknown, and apparently devoid of inhabitants;
so where we are to find a smith passes my poor skill to discover."

"You're wrong about the inhabitants, I flatter myself," replied Harry. "Do you see the faint
white mist curling above those trees to the right? I take that to be smoke; where there's smoke
there must be fire; fire must have been kindled by some human being or other--through that
individual we will endeavour to obtain an introduction to some blacksmith, conjointly with
sufficient topographical information to enable us to reach our destination in time for a certain
meal called dinner, which has acquired an unusual degree of importance in my eyes within the
last hour or so. I have spoken!"

"Like a book," replied I; "and the next thing is to ~187~~bring your sapient deductions to
the test of experiment. There is a cart-track here which appears to lead towards the smoke
you observed; let us try that." So saying, I also dismounted, and throwing my horse's bridle
over my arm we proceeded together on foot in the direction Oaklands had indicated.

Ten minutes' walking brought us into a rough country lane, winding picturesquely between high
banks and green hedges, affording an agreeable contrast to the flat, unenclosed tracts of corn-land
so general throughout Cambridgeshire. After following this lane about a quarter of a mile,
we came upon a small, retired ale-house, surrounded by trees. As we approached the door a stout,
vulgar-looking woman, dressed in rather tawdry finery, ran out to meet us; on coming nearer,
however, she stopped short as if surprised, and then re-entered the house as quickly as she
had left it, calling to some one within as she did so. After waiting for a minute or two she
came back, accompanied by a tall, disagreeable-looking man in a velveteen shooting-jacket,
with a remarkably dirty face, and hands to match.

"Is there a blacksmith living anywhere near here, my good man?" inquired Oaklands.

"Mayhap there is," was the reply in a surly tone. "Can you direct us how to find him?" continued
Oaklands.

"What might you want with him when you've found him?" was the rejoinder.

"My horse has cast a shoe, and I want one put on immediately,'" replied Oaklands, who was getting
impatient at the man's unsatisfactory, not to say insolent, manner.

"Mayhap you won't get it done in quite such a hurry as you seems to expect! There's a blacksmith
lives at Stony End, about five miles farther on. Go straight up the lane for about three miles,
then turn to the right, then twice to the left, and then you'll see a finger-post that ain't
got nothing on it--when you come to that----"

"Which I never shall do, depend upon it," replied Oaklands. "My good man, you don't imagine
I'm going to fatigue myself and lame my horse by walking five miles up this unlucky lane, do
you? If things really are as bad as you would make them out to be, I shall despatch a messenger
to summon the smith, and employ myself in the meanwhile in tasting your ale, and consuming
whatever you may happen to have in the house fit to eat." I observed that the landlord and
his wife, as I presumed ~188~~her to be, exchanged very blank looks when Oaklands announced
this determination. When he ceased speaking she whispered a few words into the ear of the man,
who gave a kind of surly grunt in reply, and then, turning to Harry, said, "Mayhap I'll shoe
your horse for you myself if you'll make it worth my while".

"You will? why, I thought you said there was not a smith within five miles?"

"No more there ain't, only me."

"And you've been worrying me, and tiring my patience all this time, merely to secure yourself
a better bargain? Oh, the needless trouble people give themselves in this world! Shoe the horse,
man, and make your own charge; be sure I'll not complain of it, only be quick," replied Oaklands.

"P'r'aps that worn't all," returned the fellow gruffly; "but if ye be in such a mighty hurry,
bring 'un along here, and I'll clap a shoe on 'un for ye in a twinkling."

So saying, he led the way through an old gate, and down a stable-yard behind the public-house,
at the bottom of which, under a kind of half-barn, half-shed, was a blacksmith's shop, fitted
up with a forge and other appliances for shoeing. Our conductor (who having divested himself
of the velveteen jacket, which he replaced with a leather apron, seemed now much more in his
proper element) displayed greater quickness and skill in making and applying the shoe, than
from his previous conduct I should have anticipated; and I began to flatter myself that our
difficulties were in a fair way to be overcome.

I was drawing up the girths of my horse's saddle, which had become somewhat loosened from our
gallop, when Oaklands, who had been sitting on a gate near, industriously flogging his boot
with his riding-whip, jumped down, saying, "If you'll keep an eye to the horses, Prank, I'll
go and see if I can get some of the worst of this mud brushed off".

"Better stay where you are! I shall a done direc'ly," observed the smith; "you ain't wanted
at ther house, I tell yer."

"You should stick to your original trade, for your manners as an innkeeper are certainly not
calculated to fascinate customers, my friend," replied Oaklands, walking towards the house.

The man muttered an oath as he looked after him, and then applied himself to his work with
redoubled energy. Above ten minutes had elapsed, the shoe was made, ~189~~fitted to the hoof,
and the process of nailing on nearly concluded, but still Oaklands did not return. I was tying
my horse's rein up to a hook in the wall, with the intention of seeking him, when I heard the
noise of wheels in the lane, followed immediately by the clatter of a horse's feet, ridden
at speed--both sounds at the moment ceased, as if the parties had stopped at the inn-door.
The blacksmith also heard them, and appeared for a moment uncertain whether to continue his
work or not; then, uttering an impatient exclamation, he began twisting off and clenching the
points of the nails as though his life depended on his haste. Perceiving that Oaklands' horse
would be ready for him to mount directly, I turned to unfasten my own, when the sound of men's
voices raised high in angry debate became audible; then a confused noise as of blows and scuffling
ensued, mingled with the screams of women; and immediately the blacksmith's wife ran out, calling
to her husband to hasten in, for that "they had come back and quarrelled with the strange gentleman,
and now they were fighting, and there would be murder done in the house".

Without waiting to hear more I ran hastily up the yard, followed by the blacksmith and the
woman. On reaching the front of the house I perceived, waiting at the door, a gig, in which
was seated a man, dressed in a suit of rusty black, while under the shade of the trees a boy
was loading up and down a magnificent black mare, which I instantly recognised as the identical
animal Wilford had become possessed of in the manner Archer had related to me. The sounds of
blows and struggling still continued, and proceeded, as I now ascertained, from the parlour
of the ale-house. As the readiest method of reaching the scene of action, I flung open the
window, which was not far from the ground, and without a moment's hesitation leaped into the room.

CHAPTER XXIV -- HOW OAKLANDS BROKE HIS HORSEWHIP

~190~~

     "Away to heav'n, respective lenity,
     And fire-eyed fury be my conduct now."

     "Use every man after his desert, and who should 'scape
     whipping?"

     "He swore that he did hold me dear
     As precious eyesight, and did value me
     Above this world, adding thereto moreover
     That he would wed me."

     "Men's vows are women's traitors."

     "To promise is most courtly and fashionable; performance
     is a kind of will or testament which argues a great sickness in
     his judgment that makes it."

     --Shakspeare.

THE sight which met my eyes as I gazed around was one which time can never efface from my memory.
In the centre of the room, his brow darkened by the flush of concentrated indignation, stood
Oaklands, his left hand clenching tightly the coat-collar of a man whom I at once perceived
to be Wilford, while with his right hand he was administering such a horse-whipping as I hope
never again to see a human being subjected to. Wilford, who actually writhed with mingled pain
and fury, was making violent but ineffectual struggles to free himself. Near the door stood
Wentworth, the blood dropping from his nose, and his clothes dusty and disordered, as if from
a fall. Crouching in a corner at the farther end of the room, the tears coursing down her fear-blanched
cheeks, and her hands clasped in an agony of terror and despair, was a girl, about nineteen
years of age, whom I had little difficulty in recognising as Lizzie Maurice, the daughter of
the old confectioner, of whose elopement we had been that morning informed. On perceiving me
she sprang forward, and clasping my knees implored me to interfere and endeavour to separate
them. I was not, however, called upon to do so, for, as she spoke, his riding-whip broke short
in Oaklands' hand, and dashing down the fragments with an exclamation of impatience, he flung
Wilford from him with so much force that he staggered forward a few paces, and would have fallen
had not Wentworth caught him in his arms, just in time to prevent it.

~191~~Oaklands then turned to the girl, whom I had raised from the ground and placed on a chair,
and addressing her in a stern impressive manner, said: "I will now resume what I was saying
to you when yonder beaten hound dared to lay hands upon me. For the last time the choice is
offered to you--either return home, and endeavour, by devoting yourself to your broken-hearted
old father, to atone as best you may for the misery you have caused him; or, by remaining here,
commence a life of infamy which will end sooner or later in a miserable death." He paused;
then, as she made no reply, but sat with her face buried in her hands, sobbing as if her heart
would break, he continued, "You tell me, the vile tempter who has lured you from your duty
promised to meet you here to-day, and, bringing a clergyman with him, to marry you privately;
now if this is the truth----"

"It is, it is," she faltered.

"If so," resumed Oaklands, "a knowledge of the real facts of the case may yet save you. This
scoundrel who has promised to marry you, and who belongs to a rank immeasurably above your
own, is already notorious for what are termed, by such as himself, affairs of gallantry; while
the wretched impostor whom he has brought with him to act the part of clergyman is the marker
at a low billiard-table, and no more a clergyman than I am."

"Is this really so?" exclaimed the girl, raising her eyes, which were swollen and red with
weeping, to Wilford's face; "would you have deceived me thus, Stephen--you, whom I have trusted
so implicitly?"

Wilford, who, since the severe discipline he had undergone, had remained seated, with his head
resting on his hand, as if in pain, apparently unconscious of what was going on, glared at
her ferociously with his flashing eyes, but made no reply. The girl waited for a minute; but,
obtaining no answer, turned away with a half shudder, murmuring, "Deceived, deceived!" Then
addressing Oaklands, she said, "I will go home to my father, sir; and if he will not forgive
me, I can but lie down and die at his feet--better so than live on, to trust, and be deceived
again".

"You have decided rightly, and will not repent it," remarked Oaklands in a milder tone of voice;
then, turning to the blacksmith (who had made his appearance, accompanied by his wife, the
moment the affray had ended), he continued: "you must procure some conveyance immediately to
take this young person back to Cambridge, and your wife must accompany her". ~192~~Observing
that the man hesitated, and cast an inquiring glance towards Wilford, he added sternly, "If
you would not be compelled to answer for the share you have taken in this rascally business
before the proper authorities, do as I have told you without loss of time".

The man having again failed in an attempt to attract Wilford's attention, asked in a surly
tone, "Whether a spring-cart would do?" and, being answered in the affirmative, left the room.

Lizzie Maurice withdrew to prepare for her return home, the woman accompanied her; Oaklands
strode to the window, and remained watching the operation of harnessing the horse to the tax-cart.
Wilford still retained the same attitude, and neither spoke nor moved. Wentworth having glanced
towards him once or twice, as if to divine his wishes, receiving no sign, lit a cigar, and
leaning His back against the chimney-piece began to smoke furiously, whilst I devoted myself
to the pages of an old sporting magazine. Thus passed five minutes, which seemed as if they
would never come to an end, at the expiration of which time the tax-cart, driven by a stout
country lad, drew up to the door, and the two women making their appearance at the same moment,
Oaklands turned to leave the room. As he did so Wilford, for the first time, raised his head,
thereby disclosing a countenance which, pale as death, was characterised by an expression of
such intense malignity as one might conceive would be discernible in that of a corpse reanimated
by some evil spirit. After regarding Oaklands fixedly for a moment, he said, in a low, grating
tone of voice, "You have foiled me once and again--when next we meet, it wilt, be my turn!"
Oaklands merely smiled contemptuously, and quitted the house.

Having mounted our horses, we ordered the lad who drove the spring-cart to proceed at his fastest
pace, while we followed at a sufficient distance to keep it in sight, so as to guard against
any attempt which might be made by Wilford to repossess himself of his victim, without positively
identifying ourselves with the party it contained. We rode in silence for the first two or
three miles; at length I could refrain no longer, and, half uttering my thoughts aloud, half
addressing my companion, I exclaimed, "Oh, Harry, Harry, what is all this that you have done?"

"Done!" replied Oaklands, with a heightened colour and flashing eyes, "rescued an innocent
girl from a villain who would have betrayed her, and punished the scoundrel ~193~~about half
so severely as he deserved; but that was my misfortune, not my fault. Had not the whip broken----"

"You know that is not what I mean," returned I; "but this man will challenge you, will--you
are aware of his accursed skill--will murder you. Oh! that fiendish look of his as you left
the room--it will haunt me to my dying day."

"And would you have had me leave the poor girl to her fate from a coward fear of personal danger?
You are strangely altered since you defied a room full of men last night rather than allow
Clara Saville's name to be uttered by their profane lips; or, which is nearer the truth," he
continued with a kind smile, "your affection for me blinds you."

"Not so, Harry," replied I; "but it is the recollection of my own feelings, when, while waiting
for Lawless's report last night, I believed I should be forced to meet this Wilford--it is
the misery, the self-reproach, the bitter penitence of that moment, when, for the first time,
I was able to reflect on the fearful situation in which by my own rashness I had placed myself,
a situation in which crime seemed forced upon me, and it appeared impossible to act rightly--it
is the remembrance of all these things which causes me to lament that you, my more than brother,
should have involved yourself in similar difficulties."

"But, Frank," he began--then, interrupting himself, he seized my hand, and pressing it warmly
between his own, exclaimed, "My dear old fellow, forgive me if I have spoken unkindly to you;
but this man has maddened me, I believe". He paused, and then continued in a calmer voice,
"Let me tell you how it occurred, and you will see I could scarcely have acted otherwise than
I have done. You know I went into the public-house to brush off the mud after my tumble. The
instant my step sounded in the passage, a girl tripped lightly down the stairs and ran towards
me, exclaiming joyfully, 'You have come at last, then!' On finding that it was not the person
she expected she stopped in alarm, and I perceived to my astonishment that it was Lizzie Maurice.
She recognised me at the same moment, and apparently a new idea struck her, for she again approached
me, saying, 'Mr. Oaklands, tell me, sir, for heaven's sake, has anything happened to Wilford?'
Then, with woman's tact, perceiving her mistake, she blushed deeply, adding in a timid voice,
'I fancied you might have been riding with that gentleman; and seeing you alone, I was afraid
some accident might ~194~~have befallen your companion'. All this convinced me that my suspicions
had not been misplaced; and the thought occurred to me that possibly it might not yet be too
late to endeavour to restore her to her father, while the recollection of Archer's account
of the old man's distress determined me to make the attempt.

"Taking her, therefore, by the hand, I led her into the parlour, and, begging her to listen
to me for five minutes, told her I was aware of her elopement, and entreated her to return
home again, adding that her father was brokenhearted at her loss. She shed tears when I mentioned
the old man's grief, but positively refused to return home.

"Finding persuasion to be of no avail, I thought I would appeal to her fears: so I informed
her that I was aware of the name of the villain who had enticed her away; that I would seek
him out and expose him, and that I should instantly acquaint her father with her place of refuge,
and advise him to come provided with proper powers to reclaim her. This produced more effect,
and, after some hesitation, she told me proudly that I had done her foul wrong by my doubts;
that Mr. Wilford meant to make her his lawful wife; but that, in order to prevent his great
relations hearing of it till he could break it to them cautiously, it was advisable to keep
the affair quiet--(the old story, in short, private marriage and all the rest of it)--a friend
of Wilford's, therefore, to avoid exciting suspicion, had kindly driven her over there the
night before, and she was now expecting her lover to come, and bring a clergyman with him,
who would marry them by licence on the spot; when she heard my step she thought they had arrived.
The air of truth with which she told her tale carried conviction with it.

"I was about to represent to her the improbability of Wilford's intentions being as honourable
as she fondly imagined them, when a gig drove up to the door, containing Wentworth and a fellow
whom I recognised as one of the billiard-markers in ---- Street, dressed in a seedy suit of
black for the occasion; immediately afterwards Wilford arrived on horseback. The whole thing
was now perfectly clear. Wilford, having made the girl believe he intended to marry her, persuaded
Wentworth, who is completely his tool, to carry her off for him; after which he went to Lawless's
wine-party, in order to show himself and thereby avert suspicion. He then bribed the billiard-marker
to play parson, got Wentworth to bring him, and going out as if merely for a ride had joined
them here. I was considering what would be the best ~195~~course to pursue, and was just coming
out to consult you, when the door was flung open, and Wilford and Wentworth entered hastily.
The moment Wilford's eyes fell upon me he started as if a serpent had stung him, and his brow
became black as night.

"Advancing a step or two towards me, he inquired, in a voice hoarse with rage, what I was doing
there. I replied, 'Endeavouring to prevent some of his evil designs from succeeding'. He tried
to answer me, but his utterance was literally choked by passion; and turning away, he strode
up and down the room gnashing and grinding his teeth like a maniac. Having in some degree recovered
his self-control, he again approached me, drew himself up to his full height, and, pointing
to the door, desired me to leave the room.

"I replied I should not do so until I had given the young lady a piece of information respecting
the character of one of the party--and I pointed to the billiard-marker, who had not yet alighted--I
should then, I added, learn from her own lips whether she still wished to remain there, or
would take my advice and return to her father.

"Again Wilford ground his teeth with rage, and desired me, in a voice of thunder, to 'leave
the room instantly '; to which I replied flatly that I would not.

"He then made a sign to Wentworth, and they both approached me, with the intention of forcing
me out. Fearing that their combined efforts might overpower me (for Wentworth, though short,
is a broad-shouldered, strong man, and Wilford's muscles are like iron), I avoided their grasp
by stepping backwards, and, hitting out with my right hand as I did so, caught Wentworth full
on the nose, tapping his claret for him, as the pugilists call it, and sending him down like
a shot. At the same moment Wilford sprang upon me with a bound like a tiger, and seizing me
by the throat a short but severe struggle took place between us. I was too strong for him,
however; and finding this, he would gladly have ceased hostilities and quitted me, kindly postponing
my annihilation till some future day, when it could be more conveniently accomplished by means
of a pistol-bullet. But, as you may imagine, my blood was pretty well up by this time, and
I determined he should not get off quite so easily. Seizing, therefore, my whip in one hand,
I detained him without much trouble with the other--his strength being thoroughly exhausted
by his previous exertions--and administered such a thrashing as will keep him out of mischief
for a week to come, at ~196~~all events. It was while this was going on that you made your
appearance, I think; so now you are au fait to the whole affair--and pray, what else could
I possibly have done under the circumstances?"

"It is not easy to say," replied I. "I think the horse-whipping might have been omitted, though
I suppose the result would have been the same at all events, and it certainly was a great temptation.
The brightest side of the business is your having saved the poor girl, who I really believe
is more to be pitied than blamed, having only followed the dictates of her woman's nature,
by allowing her feelings to overrule her judgment."

"You have used exactly the right expression there," said Oaklands; "in such cases as the present,
it is not that the woman is weak enough to be gulled by every plausible tale which may be told
her, but that she has such entire confidence, such pure and child-like faith in the man she
loves, that she will believe anything rather than admit the possibility of his deceiving her."

"The deeper villain he, who can betray such simple trust," replied I.

"Villain, indeed!" returned Oaklands. "I would not have been in Wilford's place, to have witnessed
that girl's look when the conviction of his baseness was forced upon her, for worlds; it was
not a look of anger nor of sorrow, but it seemed as if the blow had literally crushed her heart
within her---as if the brightness of her young spirit had fled for ever, and that to live would
only be to prolong the duration of her misery. No; I would rather have faced death in its most
horrible form, than have met that look, knowing that my own treachery had called it forth."

We rode for some little distance in silence. At length I inquired how he meant to arrange for
Lizzie Maurice's return to her home, as it would not do for us, unless he wished the part we
had taken in the affair to be known all over Cambridge, to escort her to her father's door
in the order of procession in which we were then advancing.

"No, I was just thinking of that," replied Oaklands. "It appears to me that the quietest way
of managing the affair will be to pay the boy for the horse and cart at once, telling him to
set Lizzie Maurice down within a short distance of her father's shop, and then to drive back
with the woman. Lizzie can proceed on foot, and will probably at this time of the evening (it
was nearly seven o'clock) be able to enter the house without attracting attention: we will,
however, keep her in sight, so as to be at hand to render her assistance should she require
~197~~it. I do not myself feel the slightest doubt that her father will believe her tale, and
treat her kindly. I shall, however, leave her my direction, and should she require my testimony
in support of her veracity, or should the old man be unwilling to receive her, she must inform
me of it, and I will call upon him, and try to bring him to reason."

"That will not be necessary, depend upon it," returned I; "he will only be too glad to recover
her."

"So I think," replied Oaklands.

"What course shall you take with regard to Wilford?" inquired I.

"I shall never mention the affair to any one, if he does not," answered Oaklands; "neither
shall I take any step whatever in the matter. I am perfectly satisfied, with the position in
which I stand at present, and if he should not enjoy an equal share of contentment, it is for
him to declare it--the next move must be his, and it will be time enough for me to decide how
to act when we see what it may be. I shall now tell Lizzie Maurice of my plan for her, and
inform her that as long as I hear she is living quietly at home, and leading a respectable
life, my lips will be sealed with regard to the occurrences of to-day." So saying, he put his
horse into a canter, and riding up to the side of the cart, conversed with the girl in a low
tone of voice for several minutes; then, drawing out his purse, handed some money to the driver,
and rejoined me. "She is extremely grateful to me for my promise of silence," he commenced;
"seems very penitent for her fault, and declares that this is a lesson she shall never forget.
She agrees to my plan of walking, and tells me there is a side-door to the house, by which
she can enter unobserved. She promises to confess everything to her father, and hopes to obtain
his forgiveness; and appears altogether in 'a very proper frame of mind,' as the good books say."

"Long may she remain so," returned I; "and now I am happy to say there are some of the towers
of Cambridge visible, for, like you, I am becoming fearfully hungry."

          "More matter for a May morning."

          "Here's the challenge, read it."

          "If this letter move him not, his legs cannot."

          "Ominous! he comes to kill my heart."
          --Shakspeare.

OLD MAURICE, the pastry-cook, had welcomed his daughter gladly, as one returned from the grave,
and had learned from her own lips, with mingled tears of joy and gratitude, how, thanks to
noble Harry Oaklands, she had escaped unscathed from the perils and temptations to which she
had been exposed; many days had elapsed, the Long Vacation had commenced, and the ancient town
of Cambridge, no longer animated by the countless throngs of gownsmen, frowned in its unaccustomed
solitude, like some City of the Dead, and still no hostile message came from Wilford. Various
reports were circulated concerning the reappearance of Lizzie Maurice; but none of them bore
the faintest resemblance to the truth, and to no one had the possibility of Oaklands' interference
in the matter occurred, save, as it afterwards appeared, to Charles Archer.

For above a week Wilford was confined to his room, seeing only Wentworth; and it was given
out that he had met with a severe fall from his horse, and was ordered to keep perfectly quiet.
At the expiration of that period he quitted Cambridge suddenly, leaving no clue to his whereabouts.
This strange conduct scarcely excited any surprise amongst the set he moved in, as it was usually
his habit to shroud all his proceedings under a veil of secrecy, assumed, as some imagined,
for the purpose of enhancing the mysterious and unaccountable influence he delighted to exercise
over the minds of men.

Oaklands remained a few days at Cambridge after Wilford's departure, as he said, to pack up,
but, as I felt certain, to prevent the possibility of Wilford's imagining that he was anxious
in any way to avoid him. Finding at length that his rooms were dismantled, and that he would
not in all probability return till the end of the Long Vacation, Harry ceased to trouble his
head any further about the matter, and we set off for Heathfield, accompanied by Archer, whom
Harry had invited to pay him a visit.

We found all well at our respective homes; my mother appeared much stronger, and was actually
growing quite stout, for her; and Fanny looked so pretty, that I was not surprised at the very
particular attentions paid her from the first moment of his introduction by the volatile Archer
(who, by the way, was a regular male flirt), attentions which I was pleased to perceive she
appreciated exactly at their proper value. We soon fell into our old habits again, Oaklands
and Archer setting out after breakfast for a stroll, or on a fishing expedition, which usually
ended in Harry's coming to an anchor under some spreading oak or beech, where he remained,
"doing a bit of the dolce," as Archer called it, till luncheon time; whilst I, who could not
afford to be idle, read hard till about three o'clock, and then joined in whatever amusement
was the order of the day.

"Frank, may I come in?" exclaimed Fanny's silvery voice outside my study door, one morning
during my working hours when I had been at home about a fortnight.

"To be sure you may, you little torment," replied I; "are you coming to learn mathematics,
or to teach me crochet? for I see you are armed with that vicious little hook with which you
delight to torture the wool of innocent lambs into strange shapes, for the purpose of providing
your friends with innumerable small anomalous absurdities, which they had much rather be without."

"No such thing, Mr. Impudence, I never make any article which is not particularly useful as
well as ornamental. But, Frank, dear," she continued, "I should not have interrupted you, only
I wanted to tell you something--it may be nothing to signify, and yet I cannot help feeling
alarmed about it."

"What is it, darling?" said I, putting my arm round her taper little waist, and drawing her
towards me.

"Why, Mr. Oaklands has been here this morning; he came to bring mamma a message from Sir John,
inviting us all to dine with him to-morrow."

"Nothing very alarming so far," observed I; "go on."

"Mamma said we should be extremely happy to do so, and quitted the room to find a recipe she
had promised to the housekeeper at the Hall."

~200~~"And you were left alone with Harry--that was alarming certainly," said I.

"Nonsense," returned Fanny, while a very becoming blush glowed on her cheek; "how you do interrupt
me! Mr. Oaklands had kindly offered to explain a difficult passage in Dante for me, and I was
standing on a chair to get down the book--"

"Which he could have reached by merely stretching out his arm, I daresay, only he was too idle,"
interposed I.

"Indeed he could not," replied Fanny quickly, "for he was sitting in the low easy-chair, and
trying to fasten mamma's spectacles on Donald's nose." (Donald being a favourite Scotch terrier
belonging to Harry, and a great character in his way.) "Well, I had just found the book," she
continued, "and we were going to begin when a note was given to Mr. Oaklands, which had been
brought by a groom from the Hall, with a message that the gentleman who had left it was waiting
at the inn in the village for an answer. Mr. Oaklands began to read it in his usual quiet way,
but no sooner had he thrown his eye over the first few lines than his cheeks flushed, his brow
grew dark, and his face assumed that fearfully stern expression which I have heard you describe,
but had never before seen myself. As soon as he had finished reading it he crushed the paper
in his hand, and sprung up, saying hurriedly, 'Is Frank------?' He then took two or three steps
towards the door, and I thought he was coming to consult you. Suddenly, however, some new idea
seemed to cross his mind, and, stopping abruptly, he strode towards the window, where he remained
for a few moments, apparently buried in thought. At length he muttered, 'Yes, that will be
better, better in all respects'; and turning on his heel, he was about to quit the room, leaving
his hat on the table, when I ventured to hand it to him, saying, 'You are going without your
hat, Mr. Oaklands'. He started at the sound of my voice, and seeming for the first time to
recollect that I was in the room, he took the hat from me, begging pardon for his inattention,
and adding, 'You must allow me to postpone our Italian lesson till----till to-morrow, shall
we say? I find there is a gentleman waiting to see me.' He paused as if he wished to say more,
but scarcely knew how to express himself. 'You saw,' he continued, 'that is--you may have observed
that--that in fact there was something in that note which annoyed me--you need not say anything
about it to Mrs. Fairlegh; she is rather given to alarming herself unnecessarily, I fancy,'
he added ~201~~with a faint smile; 'tell Frank I shall not be at home till dinner time, but
that I shall see him in the evening.' He then shook my hand warmly, and, holding it for a moment
in his own, fixed his eyes on my face with a strange, half-melancholy expression that frightened
me, and once more saying 'good-bye,' he pressed his hat over his brows, and bounding across
the lawn, was out of sight in an instant. His manner was so very odd, so unlike what it generally
is. Dear Frank, what is the meaning of all this? I am sure there is something going to happen,
something--"

"You silly child," replied I, affecting a careless composure I was far from feeling, "how you
frighten yourself about nothing. Harry has probably received a threatening letter from a Cambridge
dun, and your lively imagination magnifies it into a--(challenge, I was going to add, but I
substituted)--into something dreadful."

"Is that what you really think?" questioned Fanny, fixing her large blue eyes upon my face
inquiringly.

I am the worst hand in the world at playing the hypocrite, and with ready tact she perceived
at once that I was attempting to deceive her.

"Frank," she resumed, "you have seen but little of me since we were children together, and
deem, possibly, that--I am a weak, silly girl, unfit to be trusted with evil tidings; but indeed,
dear brother, you do me injustice; the sorrows we have gone through" (and her eyes filled with
tears as she spoke), "the necessity for exertion in order to save mamma as much as possible,
have given me more strength of character and firmness of purpose than girls of my age in general
possess; tell me the truth, and fear not that power will be given me to bear it, be it what
it may; but, if I think you are trying to hide it from me--and do not hope to deceive me; your
face proves that you are as much alarmed at what you have heard as I am myself, and probably
with far better reason--I shall be unable to forget it, and it will make me miserable."

"Well then," replied I, "thus far I will trust you. I do fear, from what you have told me,
that Oaklands has received some evil tidings relative to a disagreeable affair in which he
was engaged at Cambridge, the results of which are not fully known at present, and which, I
am afraid, may yet occasion him much care and anxiety."

"And I had fancied him so light-hearted and happy," said Fanny thoughtfully; "and is this all
I am to know about it then?"

"All that I feel myself at liberty to tell at present," ~202~~replied I; "recollect, darling,
it is my friend's secret, not my own, or you should hear everything."

"Then you will tell me all your secrets if I ask you?" inquired Fanny archly.

"Whom should I trust or confide in, if not my own dear little sister?" said I, stroking her
golden locks caressingly. "And now," continued I, rising, "I will go and see whether I can
do any good in this affair; but when Master Harry is in one of his impetuous moods he gets
quite beyond my management."

"Oh! but you can influence him," exclaimed Fanny, her bright eyes sparkling with animation;
"you can calm his impetuosity with your own quiet good sense and clear judgment--you can appeal
to his high and generous nature--you can tell him how dear he is to you, how you love him with
more than a brother's love: you can and will do all this--will you not, dear Frank?"

"Of course I shall do everything that I am able, my dear child," replied I, somewhat astonished
at this sudden outburst; "and now go, and be quiet, this business seems rather to have excited
you. If my mother asks for me, tell her I am gone up to the Hall."

"What warm-hearted creatures women are!" thought I, as I ran, rather than walked, through the
park; "that little sister of mine, now--no sooner does she hear that my friend has got into
a scrape, of the very nature of which she is ignorant (a pretty fuss she would be in if she
were aware that it was a duel, of which I am afraid), than she becomes quite excited, and implores
me, as if she were pleading for her life, to use my influence with Harry to prevent his doing--something,
she has not the most remote notion what. I wish she did not act quite so much from impulse.
It's lucky she has got a brother to take care of her; though it does not become me to find
fault with her, for it all proceeds from her affection for me; she knows how wretched I should
be if anything were to go wrong with Harry,"--and then I fell into a train of thought as to
what it could be which had so suddenly excited him: something connected with Wilford, no doubt;
but what?--my fears pointed to a challenge, and my blood ran cold at the thought. He must accept
it; neither my influence, were it increased a hundredfold, nor that of any one else, could
make him apologise; besides, it is not very easy to imagine a satisfactory apology for horse-whipping
a man till he cannot stand. And what course likely to be of any use could I take? On one point
I was resolved--nothing ~203~~should induce me to become his second. What would be my feelings
in case of a fatal result were I to reflect that I had made all the arrangements for the murder
of the friend I loved best in the world--that I had actually stationed him opposite the never-failing
pistol of his most bitter enemy, and placed in his hand a deadly weapon wherewith to attempt
the life of a fellow-creature, when the next moment he might be called upon to answer before
the Judge of all mankind for the deeds which he had done in the flesh? No! I could not be his
second. As my meditations reached this point, I overtook the groom who had brought the eventful
note, and who was leisurely proceeding on foot towards the Hall with that peculiar gait observable
in men who spend much of their time on horseback, which consists of a compromise between walking
and riding, and is strongly suggestive of their inability to realise the fact that they have
not at all times and seasons a perpetual horse between their legs.

"Have you seen Mr. Oaklands, Harris?" inquired I, as the man touched his hat respectfully.

"Yes, sir, I may say I've seen him, and that's all," was the reply. "I brought him a note to
the cottage, and was a waiting for orders, when he came tearing out, ordered me to get off,
sprang into my saddle, and without stopping for me to let down the stirrups, drove his heels
into 'Tom Trot'--that's the new grey horse, sir, if you please--and was out of sight like old
boots."

Not having time to institute an inquiry into the amount of velocity with which the ancient
articles referred to by Mr. Harris were accustomed to vanish, I asked if he knew who brought
the note.

"A groom in a dark, claret-coloured livery, mounted on a splendid coal-black mare, nearly thorough-bred,
but with more bone and substance about her than you generally see in them sort, and as clean
on her pins as an unbroke colt. Sir John ain't got such a horse in his stables, nor Mr. Harry
neither," was the reply.

This was conclusive evidence; the livery and the mare were alike Wilford's.

Leaving the groom to conjecture what he pleased, I hurried on, and, reaching the Hall, inquired
of the old butler whether Harry was at home.

"No, sir," was the reply, "they ain't any of them at home. Mr. Harry came home a horseback
about a quarter of an hour ago, and called Mr. Archer into his own room, and they had a confab,
and then Mr. Archer went out a ~204~~riding on the same horse Mr. Harry came back upon, and
would not take any o' the grooms with him--and afore that Sir John had ordered the phaeton,
and Mr. Henry being come home he asked him to go with him; so you see, Mr. Fairlegh, they're
none of 'em at home, sir."

"I'll go into the library and write a note, Edmonds," said I, as a new idea entered my head.
"You know Sir John is kind enough to let me order a horse whenever I require one--will you
tell Harris to have one saddled for me in ten minutes' time?"

"Certainly, Mr. Fairlegh; we all of us have Sir John's orders to attend to you, sir, the same
as to Mr. Henry, and you're a young gent as it's a pleasure to serve too, if you'll excuse
me taking the liberty of telling you so," replied the good old man, as he showed me into the
library.

The idea which had come into my head (and it was more for the sake of doing something that
I determined on it, than from any great hope I entertained of its proving of much avail) was
to ride over to Hillingford, and consult Freddy Coleman on the subject. Perhaps his clear head
and quick wit might enable him to devise some scheme by which, without betraying Harry's confidence,
or bringing the slightest imputation on his honour, this duel might be prevented. What else
could I do? It was quite clear to me that the note Harry had received was a challenge from
Wilford, and that the gentleman waiting at the inn was some one whom he had prevailed upon
to act as his second, probably Wentworth. Harry's first impulse had evidently been to come
to me, and ask me to be his second; but, doubtless, guessing the distaste I should have to
the office, and reflecting on the difficulties in which, if anything serious were to ensue,
I might be involved, he had determined on asking Archer instead. Archer, by instantly setting
off on horseback alone, had clearly agreed to his request, and was gone to make the necessary
arrangements; and Harry had gladly accompanied Sir John, in order to be out of the way, and
so avoid my questions and any attempts I might have made to induce him to alter his purpose.
Were I to inform Sir John on his return, it would be an unpardonable breach of confidence towards
Harry; were I to give notice to the authorities, so as to enable them to take measures for
preventing the duel, it would always be said by Wilford that I did so with Harry's connivance,
because he was afraid to meet him: thus my hands were tied in every way, and, as I said before,
I could think of nothing better than to ride over and consult Coleman, whose powers of ~205~~getting
out of a scrape I had seen pretty well tested in the affair of the bell-ringing. I therefore
scrawled a hasty note to my mother, telling her that I was going to take a long ride, and she
had better not wait dinner for me; and leaving a message for Oaklands with the servant who
announced the horse, that I should see him in the evening, flung myself into the saddle, rode
quietly till I was out of sight of the house, and then started at a gallop for Hillingford.
Unwilling to meet any of the Coleman family, I left my horse at the inn, and, pulling my hat
over my brows, to avoid, if possible, being recognised by their servant, rang the bell, and
desired him to tell Mr. Frederic that a gentleman wanted to speak with him on particular business.

CHAPTER XXVI -- COMING EVENTS CAST THEIR SHADOWS BEFORE

     "If you think your mystery in stratagem can bring this instru-
     ment of honour again into his native quarter, be magnanimous
     in the enterprise, and go on; I will grace the attempt for a
     worthy exploit if you speed well in it."

     "Now I see the bottom of your purpose."

     "You see it lawful then."

     "I love him, sir,
     Dearer than eyesight, space and liberty,
     Beyond what can be valued rich or rare,
     No less than life, with grace, health, beauty, honour;
     A love that makes breath poor, and speech unable--"

     "Adieu! these foolish drops do somewhat drown my manly
     spirit."
     --Shakspeare.

"FREDDY, can I have half an hour's private conversation with you?" asked I, as soon as we had
exchanged salutations.

"To be sure you can; but," he added, catching a glimpse of the anxious expression of my face,
"there is nothing wrong, is there?"

I made a gesture indicative of silence, and he opened a door into a sort of lawyer's office,
saying, in a low voice:--

"Come in here, we shall not be interrupted; the governor's in London, and the women are out
walking". "So much the better," replied I, "for the business I am come upon is strictly private,
and will not brook delay." I then told him as concisely as possible the whole affair ~206~~from
beginning to end; he listened attentively to my recital, merely asking a question now and then
to elucidate any particular point he did not clearly understand. I fancy he made a gesture
of surprise when I first mentioned Wilford's name, and when I had concluded, he asked,

"Wilford, you say, this man's name is? What is his Christian name?"

"Stephen."

"And he's a young fellow?"

"About three or four and twenty."

"And you want to prevent his being able to shoot Harry Oaklands at five o'clock to-morrow morning?"

"I do not know the hour, but I conclude the meeting will probably take place to-morrow morning.
Wilford would not wish to remain in the neighbourhood longer than necessary, lest he should
attract attention."

Coleman mused for some minutes, and then muttering as though he were thinking aloud--

"It might be done, so; yes, that would do. I suppose," he said, at length addressing me, "if
Master Wilford were taken into custody on a magistrate's warrant at half-past four a.m., that
would suit your ideas very nicely? I can so arrange the matter that Wilford will never be able
to trace the laying the information to our door."

"But how can you avoid that?" inquired I.

"Why, if you must know," replied Freddy, "I am acquainted with a man who would give a hundred
pounds any day to stop our friend Stephen from fighting a duel."

"What, do you know Wilford then?" asked I.

"Ray-ther," was the reply, accompanied by a very significant wink--"just a very few--I should
say we're not entire strangers, though I have never enjoyed the honour of much personal intercourse
with him; but I do not so deeply regret that, as, from your account, it seems rather a dangerous
privilege."

"How in the world do you know anything about him?"

"Oh! it's a long story, but the chief points of it are these: The aforesaid Mr. Wilford, if
he can continue to exist till he is five-and-twenty, comes into five thousand pounds a year;
but if we don't interfere, and Harry Oaklands has the luck to send a bullet into him to-morrow
morning, away it all goes to the next heir. Wilford is now three-and-twenty, and the trustees
make him a liberal allowance of eight hundred pounds per annum, on the strength of which he
spends between two thousand pounds and three thousand pounds: of course, in order ~207~~to
do this, he has to raise money on his expectancies. About two months ago he wanted to sell
the contingent reversion of a large estate in Yorkshire, from which the greater part of his
future income is to be derived; and a client of ours thought of buying it--ergo, we were set
to work upon the matter: whilst we were investigating his right, title, and all that sort of
thing, lo and behold! a heavy claim, amounting to some thousands, is made upon the property--by
whom, do you think, of all people in the world?--none other than our old acquaintance, Richard
Cumberland!"

"Good heavens!" exclaimed I, "how strange!"

"Cumberland," continued Freddy, "has become somehow connected with a lot of bill-brokers,--low
stock-jobbers,--in fact, a very shady set of people, with whom, however, in our profession,
we cannot avoid being sometimes brought into contact; he appears, indeed, himself to be a sort
of cross between black-leg and money-lender, improved by a considerable dash of the gambler,
and presenting altogether a very choice specimen of the thorough and complete blackguard. Somehow
or other he contrives to have cash at command, and, instead of being pigeoned, has now taken
to pigeoning others; and, to give the devil his due, I fancy he does a very pretty stroke of
business in that line. He is a good deal improved in manner and appearance since you remember
him; and among people who don't know him very intimately, he affects the man about town: in
short, he is quite at the top of his profession. Wilford became acquainted with him at one
of the Newmarket meetings, lost money to him, and borrowed money of him, giving him as security
a contingent charge upon the estate of double the amount--ergo, don't you see, if Wilford should
by any chance get his quietus from Harry's pistol, he won't live to come into his property,
in which case Master Dicky Cumberland is minus some thousands. Now, if I contrive to give him
a hint, depend upon it he stops the duel. I will caution him not to let my name appear--he
will not hear yours; so in this way I think we may manage the affair, and defy the old gentleman
himself, though he's a very cunning lawyer, to trace it to us."

"Well," said I, "as I see no other means of saving Oaklands' life--for this Wilford is a noted
duellist, and no doubt thirsts to wash out the insult he has received in blood--I suppose we
must do it; but it is an underhand proceeding which I do not at all like."

"There you go with your chivalric, high-flown, romantic ~208~~notions, you would stand coolly
by, and see the best friend you have in the world butchered before your eyes, rather than avail
yourself of a splendid chance of saving him, which Fortune has thrown in your way, because,
forsooth, it involves a little innocent manoeuvring!--for heaven's sake, my dear boy, get off
your stilts, and give common sense fair play."

"I can only repeat what I have just said," replied I; "I will do it, because I believe it is
the only thing to save Harry; but I do not like it, and never shall."

"I cry you mercy, Signor Francisco dc Fairlegh, the veritable Don Quixote of the nineteenth
century," laughed Freddy; "and now, most chivalrous sir, where do you imagine it probable that
this evil faiteur, this man of powder and pistols, hangs out?"

"He is most likely at the inn at Carsley, a village on the London road, about four miles from
us," replied I; "I don't know of any other place in the neighbourhood where he could be lodged.
But I'll tell you what I'll do--the name of the inn is the White Horse--if I should prove wrong
in fancying he is there, I will send a message to that inn to say where he may be found."

"Exactly," returned Freddy, entering the White Horse, Carsley, in his tablets; "now I think
I know all about it, and it shall not be my fault if this duel comes off to-morrow morning.
Good-bye, old fellow! I wish you did not look quite so grumpy about it, but it's all those
mediæval prejudices of yours. I daresay you'd think it a much more manly way of stopping the
business to electrotype yourself in brass and steel, throw yourself across a cart-horse plated
to match, and shouting, 'Fairlegh to the rescue!' run a long pole, pointed with iron, through
Wilford's jugular. Now, I consider mine much the most philosophical way of doing the trick;
in fact, conducting a dodge of this kind always affords me intense satisfaction, and puts me
into the highest possible spirits. Have you ever seen the war dance, in which the Hotto-potto-cum-from-the-wash-ki
Indians usually indulge before they set out on an expedition?--A quarter to three," he continued,
pulling out his watch, "the coach to London passes in five minutes, I shan't have time to show
it you--it begins so." Thus saying, he flung himself into a perfectly indescribable attitude,
and commenced a series of evolutions, more nearly resembling the contortions of a dancing bear,
than any other Terpsichorean exhibition with which I was acquainted. Having continued this
until he had made himself very ~209~~unnecessarily hot, he wound up the performance by flinging
a summerset, in doing which he overturned himself and the coal-scuttle into a box of deeds;
whereby becoming embarrassed, he experienced much difficulty in getting right end upwards again.
"There," he exclaimed, throwing himself into an arm-chair commonly occupied by his father's
portly form--"There! talk of accomplishments--show me a fashionable young lady who can do that,
and I'll say she is accomplished. It's rather warm work, though," he continued, wiping his
brow, "unless one wears the appropriate costume, which, I believe, consists of a judicious
mixture of red and yellow paint, three feathers, and the scalp of your opposite neighbour.
Pleasant that," he added, pointing to the reversed coal-scuttle--"that's a new addition, not
of 'Coke upon Littleton,' but of Coal upon--what's the suit? aye, Buffer versus Stoker. I shall
have to make out a case of circumstantial evidence against the cat, or I'm safe for a rowing
from the governor. Good-bye, old boy! don't fancy I'm mad; I'm not the fool I seem, though
I confess appearances are against me just at present. There's the coach, by Jingo, three bays
and a grey--no chance of the box--is this a hat? off we go." So saying, he shook my hand warmly,
bounded down the steps, and the next moment was rattling away towards London as fast as four
horses could hurry him.

It was with a heavy heart, and a foreboding of coming evil, that I mounted my horse, and slowly
retraced my way towards Heathfield. Coleman's exuberant spirits, which, I believe, were partly
assumed with a view to cheer me by diverting my attention from the painful subject which engrossed
it, had produced an effect diametrically opposite to that which he had intended, and I felt
dissatisfied with the step I had taken, doubtful of the success of his mission, anxious to
a degree, which was absolutely painful, about the fate of Harry, and altogether thoroughly
miserable. I reached home in time for dinner, during which meal my abstracted manner and low
spirits were so apparent as to set my mother speculating on the chances of my having over-heated
myself and "got a chill," whilst Fanny's anxious questioning glances, to which I was well aware
I could furnish no satisfactory reply, produced in me a degree of nervous excitement which
was unbearable, and, the moment the cloth was withdrawn, I left the room and rambled forth
into the wildest parts of the park. The quiet peaceful beauty of the scene, and the refreshing
coolness of the ~210~~evening air, had, in a great measure, calmed the excitement under which
I laboured, and I was turning my steps towards the Hall when I met Oaklands and Archer, who,
finding I was not at the cottage, had come in search of me. Half an hour's conversation served
to render all my previous conjectures matters of certainty. The challenge had been given and
accepted, Wentworth was to be Wilford's second, and he and his principal were staying at the
inn at Carsley.

The spot chosen for the scene of action was a plot of grass-land situated about half-way between
Carsley and Heathfield, so as to be equally accessible to both parties; the time appointed
was five o'clock the following morning. Archer was to act as Oaklands' second; everything had
been managed with the greatest caution, and they did not believe a single creature, excepting
themselves, had the slightest suspicion that such an event was likely to take place. They had
resolved not to tell me till everything was settled, as they feared my opposition. Having thus
taken me into their confidence, Archer left us, saying, that "probably Oaklands might like
to have some private conversation with me, and he would join us again in half an hour". Rejoiced
at this opportunity, I entered at once upon the subject which most interested me, and used
every argument I could think of to induce Harry not to return Wilford's fire.

Oaklands heard me for some time in silence, and I began to fear my efforts would be fruitless,
when suddenly he turned towards me, and said--his fine eyes beaming with an almost womanly
expression of tenderness as he spoke--"Would this thing make you happier in case I fall?" A
silent pressure of the hand was my only answer, and he added in a low voice, "then it shall
be as you wish". A pause ensued for my own part, the thought that this might be our last meeting
completely overpowered me; I did not know till that moment the strength and intensity of my
affection for him. The silence was at length interrupted by Oaklands himself, and the low tones
of his deep rich voice trembled with emotion, as they fell mournfully on the stillness of the
evening air. "My father!" he said, "that kind old man, whose happiness is wrapped up in my
welfare--it will break his heart, for he has only me to love. Frank, my brother!" he added,
passing his arm round my neck, as he had used to do when we were boys together, "you are young;
your mind is strong and vigorous, and will enable you to meet sorrow as a man should confront
and overcome whatever is ~211~~opposed to him in his path through life. I will not disguise
from you that, looking rationally and calmly at the matter, I have but little hope of quitting
the field to-morrow alive. My antagonist, naturally a man of vindictive disposition, is incensed
against me beyond all power of forgiveness, and his skill is fully equal to his malice: should
I fall, I leave my father to your care; be a son to him in the place of the one he will have
lost. This is not a light thing which I ask of you, Frank! I ask you to give up your independence,
your high hopes of gaining name and fortune by the exercise of your own talents and industry,
and to devote some of the best years of your life to the weary task of complying with the caprices,
and bearing the sorrows, of a grief-stricken old man. Will you do this for me, Frank?"

"I will," replied I; "and may God help me, as I execute this trust faithfully!"

"You have relieved my mind of half its burden," returned Oaklands warmly. "I have only one
thing more to mention--When I came of age last year my father's liberality made over to me
an ample income for a single man to live on: excepting a few legacies to old servants, I have
divided this between your good little sister and yourself, which I thought you would prefer
to my leaving it to you alone."

"Harry I indeed, I cannot allow you to do this; others must surely have claims upon you."

"There is not a being in the world who has a right to expect a farthing at my death," answered
he; "the next heir to the entailed estates is a distant relation in Scotland, already wealthy.
My father has always been a careful man, and, should he lose me, will have a larger income
than he can possibly be able to spend; besides, as the duties I have led you to undertake must
necessarily prevent you from engaging actively in any profession, I am bound in common fairness
to provide for you."

"Be it so, then," replied I--inwardly breathing a prayer that I never might possess a sixpence
of the promised fortune.

"One thing more," added Harry. "When you return to Trinity--poor old Trinity, shall I ever
visit you again!--find out how Lizzie Maurice is going on, and if she should marry respectably
in her own rank, ask my father to give you a hundred pounds as a wedding present for her; only
hint that it was my wish, and he would give twenty times the sum. And now good--pshaw!" he
continued, drawing his hand across his eyes, "I shall ~212~~play the woman if I talk to you
much more--good-night, Frank--do you accompany us to the ground to-morrow morning?"

"I will go with you," returned I, with difficulty overcoming a choking sensation in my throat;
"I may be able to be of some use."

"Here comes Archer," said Oaklands, "so once more good-night; I must get home, or my father
will wonder what is become of me."

My heart was too full to speak, and pressing his hand I turned abruptly away, and walked quickly
in the opposite direction.

CHAPTER XXVII -- THE DUEL

          "The sun begins to gild the western sky,
          And now it is about the very hour.

          They will not fail,
          Unless it be to come before their time;
          So much they spur their expedition."
          --Shakspeare.

          "Now go thy way: faintness constraineth me
          To measure out my length on this cold bed."
          --Shakspeare.

          "And me they bore.....
          To one deep chamber shut from sound, and due
          To languid limbs and sickness."
          --Tennyson's Princess.

I DID not return to the cottage until the usual hour for going to bed, as I did not dare subject
myself to Fanny's penetrating glance in my present state of excitement. The moment family prayers
were concluded I took my candle, and, pleading fatigue, retired to my room. Knowing that sleep
was out of the question in my then frame of mind, I merely substituted the clothes I intended
to wear in the morning for those I had on, and, wrapping my dressing-gown round me, flung myself
on the bed. Here I lay, tossing about, and unable to compose myself for an hour or two, the
one idea constantly recurring to me, "What if Coleman should fail!" At length, feverish and
excited, I sprang up, and throwing open the window which was near the ground, enjoyed the fresh
breeze as it played around my heated temples. It was a lovely night; the stars, those calm
eyes of heaven, gazed down in their brightness on this world of ~213~~sin and sorrow, seeming
to reproach the stormy passions and restless strife of men by contrast with their own impassive
grandeur. After remaining motionless for several minutes, I was about to close the window when
the sound of a footstep on the turf beneath caught my ear, and a form, which I recognised in
the moonlight as that of Archer, approached.

"Up and dressed already, Fairlegh?" he commenced in a low tone as he perceived me; "may I come in?"

In silence I held out my hand to him, and assisted him to enter.

"Like me," he resumed, "I suppose, you could not sleep."

"Utterly impossible," replied I; "but what brings you here--has anything occurred?"

"Nothing," returned Archer; "Oaklands retired early, as he said he wished to be alone, and
I followed his example, but could not contrive to sleep. I don't know how it is, I was engaged
in an affair of this nature once before, and never cared a pin about the matter; but somehow
I have got what they call a presentiment that harm will come of to-morrow's business. I saw
that man, Wilford, for a minute yesterday, and I know by the expression of his eye that he
means mischief; there was such a look of fiendish triumph in his face when he found the challenge
was accepted--if ever there was a devil incarnate, he is one."

A sigh was my only answer, for his words were but the echo of my forebodings.

"Now I will tell you what brought me here," he continued; "don't you think that we ought to
have a surgeon on the ground, in case of anything going wrong?"

"To be sure," replied I; "I must have been mad to have forgotten that it was necessary--what
can be done?--it is not every man that would choose to be mixed up with such an affair. Where
is it that William Ellis's brother (Ellis of Trinity Hall, you know) has settled?--he told
me he had purchased a practice somewhere in our neighbourhood."

"The very man, if we could but get him," replied Archer; "the name of the village is Harley
End; do you know such a place?"

"Yes," returned I, "I know it well; it is a favourite meet of the hounds, about twelve miles
hence. I'll find him, and bring him here--what time is it? just two--if I could get a horse
I would do it easily."

"My tilbury and horse are up at the village," said ~214~~Archer; "now Harry's horses are at
home, they could not take mine in at the hall."

"The very thing," said I, "we shall not lose a moment in that case. Is your horse fast? I shall
have to try his mettle."

"He'll not fail you," was the reply, "but don't spare him--I would rather you should ruin fifty
horses than arrive too late."

On reaching the inn we had to rouse a drowsy hostler in order to procure the key of the stables,
and it was half-past two before I was able, to start.

The road to Harley End was somewhat intricate, more than once I took a wrong turning, and was
forced to retrace my steps; being aware also of the distance I had to perform, I did not dare
to hurry the horse too much, so that it only wanted a quarter to four when I reached my destination.
Here, however, fortune favoured me. Mr. Ellis, it appeared, being an ardent disciple of Isaac
Walton, had resolved to rise at day-break in order to beguile sundry trout, and, at the entrance
of the village, I met him strolling along, rod in hand. Two minutes sufficed to make him acquainted
with the object of my mission, and in less than five minutes more (a space of time which I
employed in washing out the horse's mouth at an opportune horse-trough, with which I took the
liberty of making free) he had provided himself with a case of instruments and other necessary
horrors, all of which he described to me seriatim, as we returned, with an affectionate minuteness
for which I could have strangled him.

We started at a rattling pace on our homeward drive, hedgerow and fence gliding by us like
slides in a magic lantern. Archer's horse did not belie the character he had given of him.
With head erect, and expanded nostril, he threw his legs forward in a long slashing trot, whirling
the light tilbury along at the rate of at least eleven miles an hour; and fortunate it was
that he did not flinch from his work, for we had between thirteen and fourteen miles to perform
in an hour and ten minutes in order to reach the appointed spot by five o'clock. In our way
we had to pass within a quarter of a mile of Heathfield Hall; all seemed quiet as we did so,
and I heard the old clock over the stables strike a quarter to five.

"We shall be in capital time," said I, drawing a long breath, as I felt relieved from an anxious
dread of being too late. "It was a near thing though, and if I had not met you as I did, we
should scarcely have done it."

"Famous horse," replied Ellis; "but you've rather ~215~~over-driven him the last two or three
miles; if I were Archer, I should have a little blood taken from him--nothing like venesection;
it's safe practice in such cases as the present. You've a remarkably clear head, Fairlegh,
I know; now I'll just explain to you the common sense of the thing: the increased action of
the heart forces the blood so rapidly through the lungs, that proper time is not allowed for
oxygenisation----"

"We shall be in sight of the place when we have advanced another hundred yards," interrupted
I, as we turned down a green lane.

"Shall we?" replied my companion, standing up in the gig, and shading his eyes with his hand.
"Yes, I see them, they're on the ground already, and, by Jove, they are placing their men;
they must have altered the time, for it wants full ten minutes of five now."

"If they have," replied I, lashing the horse into a gallop, as I remembered that this unhappy
change would probably frustrate Coleman's scheme, "if they have, all is lost."

My companion gazed upon me with a look of surprise, but had no time to ask for an explanation,
for at that moment we reached the gate leading into the field, around which was collected a
group, consisting of a gig and a dog-cart (which had conveyed the respective parties, and a
servant attendant upon each, to the ground), and two or three labouring men, whom the unusual
occurrence had caused to leave their work, and who were eagerly watching the proceedings--whilst,
just inside the gate, a boy, whom I recognised as Wilford's tiger, was leading about a couple
of saddle-horses, one of them being the magnificent black thorough-bred mare, of which mention
has been already made.

Pulling up the horse with a jerk which threw him on his haunches, I sprang out, and, placing
my hand on the top rail of the gate, leaped over it, gaining, as I did so, a full view of the
antagonist parties, who were stationed at about two hundred yards from the spot where I alighted.
Scarcely, however, had I taken a step or two towards the scene of action when one of the seconds,
Wentworth, I believe, dropped a white handkerchief, and immediately the sharp report of a pistol
rang in my ear, followed instantaneously by a second. From the first moment I caught sight
of them my eyes had become riveted by a species of fascination, which rendered it impossible
to withdraw them, upon Oaklands. As the handkerchief dropped I beheld him raise his arm, and
discharge his ~216~~pistol in the air, at the same moment he gave a violent start, pressed
his hand to his side, staggered blindly forward a pace or two, then fell heavily to the ground
(rolling partially over as he did so), where he lay perfectly motionless, and to all appearance
dead.

On finding all my worst forebodings thus apparently realised, I stood for a moment horror-stricken
by the fearful sight I had witnessed. I was first roused to a sense of the necessity for action
by Ellis, the surgeon, who shouted as he ran past me:--

"Come on, for God's sake, though I believe he's a dead man!"'

In another moment I was kneeling on the turf, assisting Archer (who trembled so violently that
he could scarcely retain his grasp) to raise and support Oaklands' head.

"Leave him to me," said I; "I can hold him without assistance; you will be of more use helping
Ellis."

"Oh! he's dead--I tell you he is dead!" exclaimed Archer in a tone of the most bitter anguish.

"He is no such thing, sir," returned Ellis angrily; "hand me that lint, and don't make such
a fuss; you're as bad as a woman."

Though slightly reassured by Ellis's speech, I confess that, as I looked upon the motionless
form I was supporting, I felt half inclined to fear Archer might be correct in his supposition.
Oaklands' head, as it rested against me, seemed to lie a perfectly dead weight upon my shoulder;
the eyes were closed, the lips, partly separated, were rapidly assuming a blue, livid tint,
whilst from a small circular orifice on the left side of the chest the life-blood was gushing
with fearful rapidity.

"Open that case of instruments, and take out the tenaculum. No, no! not that; here, give them
to me, sir; the man will bleed to death while you are fumbling," continued Ellis, snatching
his instruments from the trembling hands of Archer. "You are only in the way where you are,"
he added; "fetch some cold water, and sprinkle his face; it will help to revive him."

At this moment Wilford joined the group which was beginning to form round us. He was dressed
as usual in a closely-fitting suit of black, the single-breasted frockcoat buttoned up to the
neck, so as not to show a single speck of white which might serve to direct his antagonist's
aim. He approached with his wonted air of haughty indifference, coolly fastening the button
of his glove. On perceiving me he slightly raised his hat, saying:--

"You are resolved to see this matter to its conclusion, ~217~~then, Mr. Fairlegh; no one can
be better aware than you are how completely your friend brought his fate upon himself".

He paused as if for an answer; but, as I remained silent, not being able to trust myself to
speak, he added, gazing sternly at the prostrate form before him--"Thus perish all who dare
to cross my path!" Then casting a withering glance around, as he marked the indignant looks
of the by-standers, he turned on his heel and stalked slowly away.

"He'd best quicken his pace," observed one of the countrymen who had joined the group, "for
there's them a coming as may stop his getting away quite so easy."

As he spoke the gate of the field was thrown open, and a couple of men on horseback rode hastily
in. Wilford, however, as soon as he perceived their approach, made a sign to the boy to bring
his horse, and, springing lightly into the saddle, waited quietly till they came near enough
for him to recognise their faces, when, raising his voice, he said in a tone of the most cutting
sarcasm:--

"As I expected, I perceive it is to Mr. Cumberland's disinterested attachment that I am indebted
for this kind attempt to provide for my safety; it so happens you are a quarter of an hour
too late, sir. I have the honour to wish you good-morning."

Thus saying, he turned his horse's head, and cantered across the field. The man he had addressed,
and in whom, though he was considerably altered, I recognised the well-remembered features
of Richard Cumberland, paused, as if in doubt what to do; not so his companion, however, who,
shouting, "Come on, sir, we may nab him yet," drove the spurs into the stout roadster he bestrode
and galloped furiously after him, an example which Cumberland, after a moment's hesitation,
hastened to follow, though at a more moderate rate. Wilford suffered the foremost rider to
come nearly up to him, and then, quickening his pace, led him round the two sides of the field;
but perceiving the gate was closed, and that men had stationed themselves in front of it to
prevent his egress, he doubled upon his pursuers, and, putting the mare for the first time
to her full speed, galloped towards the opposite side of the field, which was enclosed by a
strong fence, consisting of a bank with oak palings on the top and a wide ditch beyond. Slackening
his pace as he approached this obstacle, he held his horse cleverly together, and, without
a moment's hesitation, rode at it. The beautiful animal, gathering her legs well under her,
~218~~faced it boldly, rose to the rail, and, clearing it with the greatest ease, bounded lightly
over the ditch, and continued her course on the further side with unabated speed. Apparently
determined not to be outdone, his pursuer, whipping and spurring with all his might, charged
the fence at the same spot where Wilford had cleared it; the consequence was his horse rushed
against the rail, striking his chest with so much violence as to throw himself down, pitching
his rider over his head into the ditch beyond, whence he emerged, bespattered with mud, indeed,
but otherwise uninjured. As he reappeared his companion rode up to him, and, after conversing
with him earnestly for a minute or so, turned and left the field, without exchanging a word
with any other person.

During this transaction, which did not occupy one-fourth of the time it has taken us to describe,
Ellis had in a great measure succeeded in staunching the flow of blood, and a slight shade
of colour became again visible in Oaklands' cheek.

"He will bear moving now," said Ellis quickly, "but you must find something to lay him upon;
take that gate off its hinges, some of you fellows--that will answer the purpose capitally.
Come, bestir yourselves; every moment is of importance."

Thus urged, five or six sturdy labourers, who had been standing round, gazing with countenances
of rude but sincere commiseration on the wounded man (for Harry's kind-heartedness and liberality
made him very popular amongst the tenantry), started off, and returned in an incredibly short
space of time with the gate; upon this were spread our coats and waistcoats, so as to form
a tolerably convenient couch, upon which, under Ellis's direction, we lifted with the greatest
caution the still insensible form of Harry Oaklands.

"Now," exclaimed Ellis, "raise him very slowly on your shoulders, and take care to step together,
so as not to jolt him;--if the bleeding should break out again, the whole College of Surgeons
could not save him. Where's the nearest house he can be taken to? He'll never last out till
we reach the Hall."

"Take him to our cottage," said I eagerly; "it is more than half a mile nearer than the Hall."

"But your mother and sister?" asked Archer.

"Of course it will be a great shock to them," replied I; "but I know them both well enough
to feel sure they would not hesitate a moment when Harry's life was in ~219~~the balance. Do
you want me for anything, or shall I go on and prepare them for your arrival?"

"Do so, by all means," replied Ellis; "but stay--have you a bedroom on the ground-floor?"

"Yes," returned I, "my own."

"Get the bed-clothes open," continued Ellis, "so that we can put him in at once; it will save
me half an hour's time afterwards, and is a thing which should always be thought of on these
occasions."

"Anything else?" inquired I.

"Yes, send somebody for the nearest surgeon; two heads are better than one," said Ellis.

Remembering, as I approached the cottage, that the window of my room by which Archer and I
had quitted it the previous night would be unfastened, I determined I would enter there, and,
proceeding to my mother's door, call her up, and break the news as gently as the exigency of
the case would permit, leaving her to act by Fanny as she should think best. Accordingly, I
flung up the window, sprang in, and, throwing myself on the nearest chair, sat for a moment,
panting from the speed at which I had come. As I did so, a timid knock was heard at the door.
I instinctively cried, "Come in!" and Fanny entered.

"I have been so anxious all night about what you told me yesterday, that I could not sleep,
so I thought I would come to see if you were up," she commenced; then, for the first time remarking
my breathless condition and disordered dress, she exclaimed, "Good Heavens! are you ill? you
pant for breath, and your hands and the sleeves of your coat are saturated with water--with--oh!
it is blood; you are wounded!" she cried, sinking in a chair, and turning as pale as ashes.

"Indeed, darling, you are alarming yourself unnecessarily; I am perfectly uninjured," replied
I soothingly.

"Something dreadful has happened!" she continued, fixing her eyes upon me; "I read it in your
face."

"An accident has occurred," I began; "Oaklands----"

"Stop!" she exclaimed, interrupting me, "the two shots I heard but now--his agitation--his
strange manner yesterday--oh! I see it all; he has been fighting a duel." She paused, pressed
her hands upon her eyes, as if to shut out some dreadful vision, and then asked, in a low,
broken voice, "Is he killed?"

"No," replied I, "on my word, on my honour, I assure you he is not; the bleeding had ceased
when I left him, which is a very favourable symptom."

~220~~Fanny sighed heavily, as if relieved from some unbearable weight, and, after remaining
silent for about a minute, she removed her hands from her face, and said, in a calm tone of
voice:--

"And now, what is to be done? can I be of any use?"

Astonished at the rapidity with which she had regained her self-control and presence of mind
after the violent emotion she had so recently displayed, I replied:--

"Yes, love, you can, the Hall is too far off, and they are bringing him here".

As I spoke these words she shuddered slightly, but seeing I was doubtful whether to proceed,
she said, "Go on, pray".

"Would you," I continued, "break this to my mother, and tell her I believe--that is, I trust--there
is no great danger--and--and--do that first."

With a sad shake of the head, as if she mistrusted my attempt to reassure her, she quitted
the room, whilst I obeyed Ellis's instructions by preparing the bed; after which I unclosed
the hall-door, and, despatching the gardener's boy to fetch the surgeon, stood anxiously awaiting
the arrival of the party. I had not done so many minutes when the measured tramp of feet gave
notice of their approach, and in another instant they came in sight.

CHAPTER XXVIII -- THE SUBSTANCE OF THE SHADOW

          "Recovery, where art thou?

          Daughter of Heaven, where shall we seek thy help?"

          "Come thou and chase away
          Sorrow and Pain, the persecuting Powers,
          Who make the melancholy day so long,
          So long the anxious night."

          "I look for thy approach,
          O life-preserving Power! as one who strays
          Alone in darkness o'er the pathless marsh,
          Watches the dawn of day."
          --Southey.

"ALL well so far," replied Ellis, in answer to my look of inquiry; "the bleeding has ceased,
and he is fast recovering consciousness. Where is the room? We must get him into bed at once."

~221~~When we had placed him in the bed Oaklands lay for a short space with his eyelids closed,
uttering a low groan at intervals; at length the quiet appeared in some measure to restore
him, and, slowly opening his eyes, he gazed languidly around, asking in a low voice, "Where am I?"

"Let me beg you not to speak, Mr. Oaklands," said Ellis; "your safety depends upon your keeping
silence; you are at the cottage of your friend Fairlegh."

As he heard these words Harry perceived me standing near the bed, and smiled faintly in token
of recognition; then, making a sign for me to stoop down to him, he whispered, "My father--you
must break this to him--go, Frank".

"This instant," replied I, and I turned to leave the room, beckoning to Ellis, as I did so,
to follow me. "Tell me the truth," exclaimed I, as he closed the door behind him, "will he
live or die?"

"It is too early in the business to pronounce a decided opinion," was the answer; "nor can
I venture as yet to do so; everything depends upon the course the ball may have taken, and
that, as soon as the other surgeon arrives, we must endeavour to ascertain; all I can say at
present is, that I have seen worse cases recover. There is one thing," he added, "which may
be a satisfaction for you to know--if you had not brought me, or some one in my profession,
to the ground, he would have bled to death where he fell; no one but a surgeon could have stopped
that bleeding."

"If we had been too late I should never have forgiven myself, and we very nearly were so,"
returned I. "I cannot understand how it was."

"I can explain it," said Archer, who now joined us. "You left me up at the village, you remember,
Fairlegh, when you started to fetch Mr. Ellis; well, just as I was leaving it to return to
the Hall, a boy ran past me at the top of his speed, and began knocking at one of the cottage
doors hard by; surprised to see any one about at so early an hour in the morning, I inquired
what was the matter. 'Master's just had word brought him that some gem'men is a going to fight
a jewel at five o'clock, and I be come to call the constable, for master to give him a warrant
to take 'em hup.' 'And who is your master?' questioned I. 'Justice Bumbleby,' was the answer.
This was enough for me; I made the best of my way to the Hall, woke Oaklands, who was sleeping
as calmly as a child, poor fellow! and he immediately sent his own ~222~~groom, the lad who
went with us to the field, to inform Wilford and his second of what I had heard, and to propose
that the meeting should take place a quarter of an hour earlier than the time originally agreed
on, to which they willingly consented."

"This then," thought I, "is the reason why Coleman's scheme failed, and Cumberland arrived
too late;--well, one good thing is, it will clearly prove that neither Archer nor Oaklands
connived at the intended interruption."

The deep, the agonising grief of Sir John Oaklands, on receiving from my lips the account of
his son's danger, was most painful to witness, and I was obliged to yield to his desire to
return with me to the cottage, although Ellis had strictly forbidden his being allowed to see
Harry, lest the excitement should prove injurious to the patient in the precarious state in
which he lay. On my return I found the surgeon of the neighbourhood, Mr. (or as he was more
commonly styled Dr.) Probehurt, had arrived, and that they were endeavouring to extract the
ball, which, after a long and painful operation, they succeeded in doing. From the marks on
the coat and waistcoat, it appeared that Wilford had aimed straight for the heart; but his
deadly intentions had been providentially frustrated by the accident of Oaklands having a half-crown
piece in a small pocket in his waist-coat, against which the ball had struck, and, glancing
off, passed between two of the ribs, finally lodging amongst the muscles immediately under
the shoulder-blade. The great effusion of blood had been occasioned by its having divided one
of the smaller arteries, which Ellis had succeeded in securing on the spot. The wound was,
therefore, a very severe one; but it was impossible to pronounce upon the exact amount of danger
at present, as the course which the ball had taken trenched closely on so many important organs,
that time alone could show the extent of the injury sustained. With this opinion, in which
(strange to say) both doctors agreed, we were fain to content ourselves, and we passed the
rest of the day in alternately watching by the wounded man and attempting to comfort and support
Sir John, whom we had the greatest difficulty in keeping out of Harry's room, till Ellis asked
him abruptly "whether he wanted to murder his son?" after which nothing short of force could
have induced him to enter it. One of his first acts, having consulted with Dr. Probehurt, who
graciously approved of the measure, was to enter into an arrangement with ~223~~Ellis, to induce
him to remain constantly with Harry till his health should be perfectly re-established, if,
indeed, that happy event was ever destined to occur. As Sir John's liberality was unbounded,
and Ellis's professional prospects rather hazy--his practice at Harley End being chiefly confined
to the very poor, who went on the advice gratis system, and expected to have medicine given
them into the bargain--the negotiation was soon concluded to the satisfaction of both parties.

Towards evening Harry became more restless; the pain of his wound increased, and feverish symptoms
began to make their appearance. As the night advanced he grew delirious, and before morning
was in a high state of fever. For many days his life was despaired of. Ellis never left his
bedside, save to snatch an occasional hour's sleep on a sofa, when I took his place. Sir Benjamin
Brodie was summoned from town, and held a consultation with Dr. Probehurt and Ellis.

Sir John's grief was something fearful to witness. Although naturally a strong-minded man,
this unlooked-for blow and the subsequent anxiety had completely unnerved him. At times he
would cry like a child; at others he would sit for hours without opening his lips, his head
resting dejectedly on his hands, the image of despair: he could with difficulty be prevailed
upon to take sufficient nourishment for his support, and appeared scarcely to notice anything
that was going on. On these occasions Fanny was the only person whose influence was of the
slightest avail; with her own hands she would prepare some delicacy of which she knew he was
fond, and when with a melancholy shake of the head he rejected it, she would seat herself at
his feet, and, taking his hand within her own, whisper kind words of hope and consolation to
him, till the old man's heart was softened, and he could refuse her nothing. Sometimes even
this failed, and then she would begin singing in a low sweet voice some plaintive simple air
that he loved to hear, till the tears would steal down his grief-worn cheeks, and, laying his
hand upon her fair young brow, he would bless her, and say that the God who was about to take
his noble son from him, had sent an angel to be a daughter to him in his stead. And so the
weary days wore on--still vibrating between life and death, the strong man, his matchless powers
now reduced to the weakness of infancy, lay stretched upon the couch of suffering, whence it
appeared too probable he might never be removed, save to the last sad resting-place of frail
humanity--the grave.

~224~~About the eighth day the ligature with which Ellis had tied the artery came away, and
the wound assumed a rather more favourable appearance, but the fever remained unsubdued, and
the delirium continued. Each day which passed without improvement added to the length of Dr.
Probehurt's solemn visage, and I could see that in his own mind he had little or no hope of
the patient's recovery. Ellis was by far the most sanguine of the party, and, whenever we urged
our gloomy forebodings upon him, invariably replied--"Yes, I know all that--it would have killed'
any other man, but it won't kill him. Wait a bit, and you'll see."

A fortnight had now elapsed, and the continued burden of his grief began to tell visibly upon
Sir John. The ruddy hue of health faded from his cheeks; his eyes grew dim with weeping, his
hands shook, and his firm manly step became feeble and uncertain; it seemed as if in that short
space of time he had grown ten years older. My mother also began to look ill and harassed,
and Fanny, though she still kept up wonderfully, and was the life and soul of us all, waxed
paler and thinner every day, while, for my own part, I could neither eat, drink, nor sleep
to any efficient purpose, and divided my time between watching in the sick-room and pacing
up and down the garden, beyond the precincts of which I never ventured, from a nervous dread
lest anything might go wrong in my absence.

On one occasion Ellis, completely wearied out, had thrown himself on a sofa to snatch an hour's
repose, while I took his place by Harry's bedside. It was between two and three o clock in
the morning, and the first rays of early dawn, stealing in through the partially closed shutters,
and mingling with the faint glimmer of the night-lamp, threw a pale and ghastly light over
the surrounding objects, when I fancied that I heard my name pronounced in a low, scarcely
audible voice. I glanced at Ellis, but his hard and regular breathing proved him to be sound
asleep. I next turned towards the bed where Harry lay, and, carefully shading the lamp with
my hand, advanced with noiseless step towards it. As I approached I perceived the patient's
eyes were open, and, oh, happiness I once more animated by the mild light of reason.

"Harry," whispered I, "did you call? Do you know me?"

A faint smile passed across his pallid features as he replied in a voice so weak and low, that
I was obliged to ~225~~stoop my head almost to a level with his lips, ere I could catch his
words--"Know you, dear Frank! why not?"

"Thank heaven," murmured I, "he is no longer delirious!"

As I again turned towards him, he endeavoured to stretch out his hand to me, but his strength
was unequal even to that slight exertion, and his arm dropped heavily by his side; as it did
so, he spoke again--"Frank, what is all this? I cannot--I am very weak--very tired."

"Lie still, dear Harry, and do not try to talk--it may do you harm. You have been very ill,
but God in His mercy will soon, I trust, restore you to health." I then crossed over to Ellis's
sofa, and laid my hand lightly upon his shoulder. "Oaklands is no longer delirious," said I,
as he started up; "he knows me, and has spoken to me."

"Is he?--does he?--has he?"--exclaimed Ellis in an eager whisper. "I told you it would never
kill him. Why didn't you call me before? but it's always the way; if I do by any chance fall
asleep once in a week, there isn't another head properly so called in the whole house, they
might as well be chair nobs--Yes, I know," he continued, as I attempted to get in a word of
explanation, "if you couldn't wake me before it happened, that doesn't prevent your giving
me the medicine-chest now, does it?"

I may as well take this opportunity of mentioning that Ellis, though in the main one of the
best-tempered fellows in the world, whenever he was particularly interested or excited, became
extremely cross and snappish, and was certain at such times to scold every one who fell in
his way, without the slightest regard to age, sex, or station. However, it was always over
in two or three minutes, and I have seen him laugh till the tears ran down his face, when the
rude things he had said were repeated to him afterwards. While he was staying with his brother
at Cambridge, it used to be a favourite amusement with some of the men to start a subject which
they knew would excite him, for the sake of "getting a rise out of the doctor," as they termed
it. But I am digressing.

The medicine Ellis gave Harry threw him into a heavy sleep, from which he did not awake until
late in the morning, when he appeared perfectly conscious. The fever had in great measure abated,
and on Dr. Probehurt's arrival he was fain to confess a surprising improvement had taken place,
and that, if not positively out of danger, the patient was in a fair way to become so. As for
Ellis, he was exactly like one beside himself. He ran all over the house--into bedrooms and
all sorts of places where ~226~~he had not the slightest business, shaking hands with every
one, and repeating, "I knew it--I knew it--I always told you so--it would have killed any other
man, but it couldn't kill him!"

Let us pass in silence over the first interview between Sir John Oaklands and his son. There
are some of the deeper feelings of our nature, planted in our bosoms by the hand of God Himself,
which, when called forth to their fullest extent by the chances of life, reveal so clearly
their divine origin, that those who witness their display stand reverently by, and, with throbbing
hearts and averted eyes, bow the head as in presence of some holy thing; and if such pure and
sacred influences shed their lustre over that meeting, and the old man wept tears of deep and
fervent thankfulness on the neck of the son whom he had, as it were, received from the dead,
far be it from us, with sacrilegious hand, to remove the veil which shrouds the hallowed mysteries
of feeling.

From that day Oaklands began to amend slowly, and, at the end of another week, even the cautious
Dr. Probehurt declared all immediate danger was over; for which admission, however, he took
care fully to indemnify himself, by detailing at length every possible evil which might accrue
for the future. The state of weakness to which Harry's once herculean frame was reduced was
melancholy to witness; for many days he was unable to turn in his bed without assistance, and
even when he began to recover his strength, it was by very slow and lingering degrees. Utterly
unable to support himself, he was lifted from his bed to a sofa, and wheeled into the drawing-room,
where all our powers of entertainment were called into requisition to relieve the monotony
of such a state of existence. In doing this, Fanny made herself pre-eminently useful; by a
sort of intuition she appeared to divine everything he could possibly want before he asked
for it, and contrived to have it waiting his pleasure as if by magic; and yet it was done so
quietly, that I believe Harry had not a notion to whom he was indebted for the forestalment
of his every wish. Did his lips appear parched and dry from the low fever which still hung
about him--unobserved by any one, Fanny would glide out of the room, and in another minute
his servant would enter with a tray containing jelly, lemonade, or some refreshment of a like
nature; and Harry would say, with a languid smile, that the fairies must have been at work,
for that Wilson had brought him the very thing he was wishing for. As he grew stronger, and
~227~~required less attention, I yielded to his request, and once more resumed my studies,
reading doubly hard in order to make up for lost time. The duel had taken place early in June,
but it was not until the latter end of August that the surgeons would allow of their patient's
removal to the Hall. Under Ellis's directions a kind of litter was prepared, drawn by a stout
Shetland pony, and hung upon a complicated arrangement of springs, by which means all possibility
of jolting was avoided. With the assistance of this vehicle, Harry was enabled to take short
airings in the park, and, when it was found that no ill effects ensued, a fine day was chosen,
and Heathfield Hall flung wide its ample gates to receive once more within its walls the heir
of that noble property. It was a glad day for every one--the old servants shed mingled tears
of joy and sorrow; of joy that their young master had been spared to come among them again,
and of sorrow when they gazed on his pallid cheeks and long thin hands, and thought of the
amount of suffering that manly frame must have undergone ere it could have become such a wreck
of its former self.

After his return home Oaklands progressed very slowly; he so far recovered as to walk about
the house and garden with the assistance of Ellis's arm; but the wound in his side still presented
an unsatisfactory appearance, and obstinately refused to heal. Ellis's skill and attention
were unparalleled; he took the greatest interest in the case, and though he pretended that
his zeal was entirely professional, yet it was clear the fascination which Harry seemed unconsciously
to exercise over every one who became intimate with him, had subdued even the sturdy doctor,
and that he had conceived the strongest affection for his patient.

The only one of the party on whom the fatigue and anxiety appeared to have produced any lasting
effect was dear little Fanny, and she continued to look much more pale and thin than I liked
to see her. Her spirits, also, seemed less gay and buoyant than usual, and when Sir John and
Harry left us, and she had no longer any motive for exertion, a kind of languor came over her,
producing a listless distaste for all her former employments; and she would sit for hours poring
over one of the Italian poets, without exchanging a word with any one. In order, if possible,
to rouse her from this state of apathy, I used every means in my power to interest and amuse
her; but, unfortunately, my time was now so fully occupied that I had little leisure to bestow
upon her. I ~228~~was to take my degree at the commencement of the new year; and, as I had
made up my mind to try for honours, I had not a moment to lose, and read eight hours a day.
The rest of my time was devoted to Sir John and Harry (save an odd hour or two for a constitutional
scamper with my gun through the preserves to keep down the rabbits, or a gallop across country
to prevent the hunters from getting too fat), and our kind friends were never so well pleased
as when they could persuade us all to come to them. My sister, however, seemed to prefer dreaming
over her book to the exertion of accompanying us to the Hall, and even when she did so, appeared
unequal to the labour of amusing Harry, and devoted herself to the more easy task of pleasing
Sir John, who, happy beyond expression in the prospect of his son's recovery, was in the highest
good humour with everybody and everything. Becoming at length far from satisfied about Fanny,
I mentioned my uneasiness to my mother, who comforted me by the assurance, that she considered
it merely the natural consequences of the fatigue and anxiety she had undergone, a sort of
reaction of the spirits, for which time and rest would prove the most effectual cure.

And once again the leaves upon the trees grew brown, presenting, in their varied richness,
those exquisite shades of colouring that gladden a painter's eye--and the swallows, those summer
parasites, taking alarm at the first sharp blast from the north, had departed to prosecute
their annual pursuit of sunshine under difficulties, leaving the honest robin redbreast to
renew his friendship with the race of men--when I, dissatisfied and anxious about those I was
leaving behind me, and nervous in the highest degree as to the result of the struggle for distinction
in which I was about to engage, once more took up my abode at Trinity.~229~~

CHAPTER XXIX -- THE STRUGGLE IN CHESTERTON MEADOW

          "Men
          Put forth their sons to seek preferment out.

          Some to the studious universities,
          For any or for all these exercises."

          "Stand, sir, and throw us that you have about you;
          If not, we'll make you sit, and rifle you."

          "A rescue! a rescue! Good people bring a rescue or two!"

          "Construe me, art thou a gentleman?   What is thy name?
          Discuss!"
          --Shakspeare.

HAVING now no one to interfere with me, I determined to read as hard as my powers, mental and
bodily, would allow, so as to give my talents, be they great or small, full scope, and endeavour
to evince my gratitude to my unknown benefactor in the only manner that lay open to me, i.e.,
by proving to him that his liberality had not been thrown away. As the men began to come up,
I took care to let it be generally known among my friends that I was reading steadily and in
earnest, with a view of going out in honours; and when they became convinced that this was
the case, and that whenever I "sported oak" there was positively "no admittance," they left
me to my fate, as one who, in the words of Lawless, "having strayed from the paths of virtue
and--eh!--what do you call it? --jollity--had fallen a victim to the vice of mathematics--not
a hope of recovery--a regular case of hydrostatics on the brain--eh! don't you see?"

Besides the regular college tutor, I secured the assistance of what, in the slang of the day,
we irreverently termed "a coach," which vehicle, for the conveyance of heavy learning (from
himself to his pupils), consisted of a gentleman who, but few years older than those whom he
taught, possessed more practical knowledge, and a greater aptitude for the highest scientific
research, than it had ever before been my fate to meet with combined in any one individual.
Under his able tuition I advanced rapidly, and reading men began to look upon me as a somewhat
formidable rival. Several of my opponents, however, were men of first-rate talent, whose powers
of mind, as I could not for a moment disguise from myself, ~230~~were infinitely superior to
my own, and with whom my only chance of competing successfully would be by the exercise of
indefatigable perseverance and industry. Daylight, therefore (which at this season did not
make its appearance over early), found me book in hand, and midnight saw me still seated at
my desk--sometimes with a wet towel bound round my head, to cool the throbbing of my heated
brow; at others, with a tea-pot of strong green tea by my side, to arouse and stimulate my
wearied faculties: conventional specifics, of which, by the way, I very quickly discovered
the fallacy.

A fear of completely knocking up, however, induced me to preserve some little method in my
madness. I laid down a rule to walk for a couple of hours every day, and thus, although I grew
pale and thin, no very dangerous effects appeared likely to ensue from my exertions.

One evening, about a week before the examinations were to begin, I was taking my usual constitutional
after Hall; and, careless which way I turned my steps, crossed the river at Moore's, and followed
the footpath which led over the fields to the village of Chesterton. There had been a cattle
fair at some place in the neighbourhood, which had drawn together a number of disreputable
characters, and, in the course of my walk, I passed two or three parties of rather suspicious-looking
men. Having nothing valuable about me, however, I continued my walk. I had advanced some half
mile or more, when I was roused from my meditations by a cry of "Thieves I thieves! help! hoy!
thieves, I say!" accompanied by the noise of blows. When these sounds first reached me I was
close to a hedge and stile, across which the footpath led, and from the farther side of which
the cries proceeded. It was growing dark, but there still remained light enough to distinguish
objects at a moderate distance. To bound over the stile and cast my eyes around was the work
of a moment, nor was I much longer in taking part in an affray which was going on.

The person whose cries I had heard was a stout little man, respectably dressed, who was defending
himself vigorously with what seemed in the twilight a club, but which turned out eventually
to be an umbrella, against the attacks of a tall, strapping fellow, in a rough frieze coat,
who was endeavouring to wrest his weapon from him. A still more formidable adversary was, however,
approaching in the shape of a second ruffian, who had armed himself with a thick stake out
of the hedge, and was creeping cautiously up behind the shorter man, with ~231~~the evident
intention of knocking him on the head. I instantly determined to frustrate his benevolent design,
nor was there much time to lose, if I wished my assistance to prove of much avail. Shouting,
therefore, as well to intimidate the scoundrels as to let the person attacked know that there
was succour at hand, I sprang upon the man who held the cudgel, and, seizing his uplifted arm,
succeeded in averting the coming blow from the head of the intended victim, who, ignorant of
the impending danger, was making most furious thrusts at his assailant with the point of his
umbrella, a novel mode of attack, which seemed to perplex and annoy that individual in no small
degree.

I had, however, but little time allowed me to make observations, as the fellow with whom I
had interfered, as soon as he perceived that he had only an unarmed man to deal with, appeared
determined not to give up his hopes of plunder without a struggle, and, freeing his wrist by
a powerful jerk, he aimed a blow at me with the bludgeon, which, had it taken effect, would
at once have ended all my anxieties, and brought this veracious history to an abrupt and untimely
conclusion. Fortunately, however, for "my gentle public" and their humble servant, I was able,
by dodging on one side, to avoid the stroke; and, seeing that matters had now become serious,
I closed with him, and, after a short but severe struggle, had the satisfaction of depositing
him flat on his back on the green sward. As he fell he dropped his stick, of which I immediately
possessed myself, and, planting my foot upon his chest to prevent his rising, I turned to see
how the other combatants were getting on. Dame Fortune had not, in this instance, acted up
to her usual principle of favouring the brave, for the hero of the umbrella, having struggled
gallantly for the preservation of his property and person, had apparently at length been overpowered,
and, when I turned towards him, was lying on the ground, while his assailant was endeavouring
to rifle his pockets, a matter which was rendered anything but easy of accomplishment by reason
of the energetic kicks and struggles of the fallen warrior. It was clear that if I would not
have the unfortunate little man robbed before my very eyes, I must go to his assistance. Giving,
therefore, my prostrate foe a tap on the head with the stake, by way of a hint to lie still,
I advanced to the rescue with uplifted weapon. No sooner did the rascal perceive my approach,
than, quitting the fallen man, he sprang up, and, without waiting to be attacked, took to ~232~~his
heels and ran off as fast as his legs would carry him, an example which his companion, seeing
the coast clear, hastened to emulate.

My first act, as soon as the thieves had departed, was to assist the old gentleman to rise.
As soon as he was on his legs again he shook himself, as if to ascertain that he was uninjured,
and exclaimed:--

"Umph! they're gone, are they? the scoundrels, high time they should, I think; where's my umbrella?
umph! second I've lost this year--just like me".

The voice, the manner, but, above all, the emphatic grunts and the final self-accusing soliloquy,
"just like me," could proceed but from one person, my old Helmstone acquaintance, Mr. Frampton;
though by what strange chance he should be found wandering by owl-light in a meadow near Cambridge
passed my comprehension to conceive. Feeling secure from the alteration which had taken place
in me since I had last seen him--an alteration rendered still more complete by my academical
costume--that he would be unable to recognise me, I determined to amuse myself a little at
his expense before I made myself known to him. In pursuance of this plan I picked up his umbrella
and handed it to him, saying in an assumed voice as I did so, "Here is your umbrella, sir".

"Thank ye, young man, thank ye, cost five-and-twenty shillings last Friday week; umph! might
have got a cotton one for less than one quarter the money, that would have done just as well
to thump thieves with--a fool and his money--just like me, umph!"

"I hope you are not injured by your fall, or by the rough treatment you have been subjected
to?" inquired I.

"Umph! injured?" was the reply; "I've got a great bump on the back of my head, and burst all
the buttons off my waistcoat--I don't know whether you call that being injured; but I can tell
you I got away from the Thugs at Strangleabad without any such injuries: umph!"

"It was fortunate that I happened to come up just when I did," observed I.

"Umph! glad you think so," was the answer; "if that stick had come down upon your skull, as
the blackguard meant it to do, you would not have found it quite so fortunate, I've a notion.
Umph! all the same, I'm much obliged to you; I might have been robbed and murdered too, if
it had not been for you, young man, and if you'll walk home with me to the 'Hoop'--there's
a name for an inn!--I'll give you a couple of sovereigns. ~233~~and that's more than you've
earned before to-day, I'll be bound--umph!"

"I shall be delighted to see you safe home, sir, but you will excuse my declining your pecuniary
offer, though I must plead guilty to the charge of not having earned as much--I believe I might
say, in my whole life before."

"Umph! I see--a gentleman, eh? and I to offer him money--just like me--a lord, or a duke, I
shouldn't wonder--there are all sorts and sizes of 'em here, they tell me--ask him to dinner.
Umph! perhaps you'll do me the honour of dining with me, young man--my lord, I mean--mulligatawny--cat
smothered in rice, which they call curry--kibobs, and kickshaws--the cook is not so bad for
a white; but you should go to India if you care about eating--that's the place for cookery, sir."

"I shall have much pleasure in accepting your invitation," replied I, "if you will allow me
to run away directly after dinner: I am reading for my degree, and time is precious with me
just now."

"Umph! so it should be always. I see, now I come to look at you, you are one of the cap-and-gown
gentlemen." (Then came an aside--"Cap, indeed! it's a fool's cap would fit one half of 'em
best!") "Pray, may I ask what college you belong to, Mr. ----?"

"Legh is my name, sir--Legh of Trinity."

"Umph! Trinity; just the man I wanted to get hold of. My name's Frampton, Mr. Lee: they know
me well at the India House, sir. When we've had a bit of dinner, and washed this horrid fog
out of our throats with a few glasses of wine, I shall be glad to ask you a question or two. Umph!"

"Any information it may be in my power to afford you," I began----

"That'll do, sir, that'll do," was the reply. "Perhaps you won't be quite so ready when you
hear what it is I want." Then, in an undertone--"Tell me a parcel of lies, most likely; I know
how these young scamps hang by one another, and think it high fun 'to do the governor,' as
they call it. Umph!"

On our arrival at the Hoop we were ushered into one of the best sitting-rooms the inn afforded,
where a blazing fire soon effaced all traces of the wet-blanket-like fog in which we had been
so lately enveloped. I was shown into a comfortable dressing-room to get ready for dinner,
an opportunity of which I availed myself to render my appearance as unlike what it had been
in former days as circumstances would allow, before again subjecting myself ~234~~to Mr. Framptqn's
scrutiny. For this purpose, I combed my hair back from my face as far as possible, and brushed
my whiskers--an acquisition of which I had only lately become possessed--as prominently forward
as the growth of the crop permitted. I poked my shirt-collar entirely out of sight, and tied
my black neckcloth stiffly up under my chin, and finally buttoned my coat, so as to show off
the breadth of my chest and shoulders to the greatest advantage. Thus accoutred, and drawing
myself up to my full height, I hastened to rejoin Mr. Frampton. My arrangements seemed thoroughly
to have answered their purpose, for he gazed at me without evincing the slightest symptom of
recognition. He shook me by the hand, however, and thanked me more cordially than he had yet
done for the assistance rendered him, and then rang for dinner. The bill of fare embraced all
the Asiatic luxuries he had enumerated, to which, on the strength of having invited a guest,
sundry European dishes were added; and with appetites sharpened by our recent adventures, we
did full justice to the good cheer that was set before us.

CHAPTER XXX -- MR. FRAMPTON'S INTRODUCTION TO A TIGER

          "Had I been seized by a hungry tiger,
          I would have been a breakfast to the beast."
          --Shakspeare.

          "He started
          Like one who sees a spectre, and exclaimed,
          'Blind that I was to know him not till now!'"
          --Southey.

          "Go to, you are a counterfeit knave!"--Shakspeare.

"I HOPE you feel no ill effects from your adventure, sir: you resisted the fellow's attack
most spiritedly, and would have beaten him off, I believe, if you had possessed a more serviceable
weapon than an umbrella," observed I to Mr. Frampton, as we drew our chairs to the fire after
dinner.

"Umph! all right, sir, all right: a little stiff or so across the back, but not so bad as the
tiger at Bundleapoor. I'm not as young as I used to be, and there's a difference between young
men and old ones. Young men are all whalebone and whipcord, and it's nothing but hopping, skipping,
and jumping with them all day long; when ~235~~you're turned of sixty-five, sir, the whalebone
gets stiff, the whipcord wears out, the skip and jump take their departure, and the hop becomes
an involuntary accompaniment to the rheumatism--confound it! Umph!"

"You have been in India, I presume; I think I heard you refer to some adventure with a tiger,"
returned I.

"I've been everywhere sir--north, south, east, and west. I ran away from school at twelve years
old, because the master chose to believe one of the ushers rather than me, and flogged me for
lying when I had spoken the truth. I ran away, sir, and got aboard a ship that was bound for
the East Indies, and for five-and-forty years I never saw the white cliffs of Old England;
and, when I did return, I might as well have left it alone, for all who knew and cared for
me were dead and gone--all dead and gone, dead and gone!" he repeated in a tone of sorrowful
earnestness. Then came an aside: "Umph! wonder what I told him that for; something for him
to go and make fun of with the other young scapegraces, instead of minding their books:--just
like me!"

"You must have seen many strange things, and met with various adventures worthy of note, in
the course of your wanderings," remarked I.

"I must have been a fool if I hadn't," was the answer. "P'rhaps you think I was--umph! Young
folks always think old ones fools, they say."

"Finish the adage, sir, that old folks know young ones to be so, and then agree with me that
it is a saying founded on prejudice, and at variance with truth."

"Umph! strong words, young gentleman, strong words. I will agree with you so far, that there
are old fools as well as young ones--old fools, who, in their worldly wisdom, stigmatise the
generous impulses and warm affections of youth as folly, who may yet live to regret the feelings
they have crushed, and the affections they have alienated, and find out that the things which
they deemed folly may prove in the end the truest wisdom." Then came the soliloquy: "There
I go again--just like me! something else for him to laugh at; don't think he will, though--seems
a good lad--wish t'other boy may be like him--umph!" He paused for a minute, and then observed
abruptly, "Umph! about the tiger at Bundleapoor. You call to-night's an adventure, sir: wonder
what you'd have said if you'd been there!"

"As I was not, would it be asking too great a favour, if I request you to relate the anecdote?"

"Aye, boy, boy, I see you know how to come round an ~236~~old traveller: set him gossiping
about all the fine things he has seen and done in his younger days, and you win his heart at
once. Well, fill your glass, sir, and we'll see about it," was the reply.

I obeyed, Mr. Frampton followed my example, and, after sipping his wine, and grunting several
times to clear his throat, began the following recital:--

"Umph! ha! let me recollect. When I was a young shaver, having lived in the world some twenty
years or so, I was engaged as a sort of supernumerary clerk in the house of Wilson and Brown
at Calcutta; and, having no one else who could be so easily spared, they determined to despatch
me on a business negotiation to one of the native princes, about eight hundred miles up the
country.

"I travelled with a party of the -- Dragoons, commanded by a Captain Slingsby, a man about
five years older than myself, and as good a fellow as ever lived. Well, somehow or other, he
took a great fancy to me, and nothing would do but that I should accompany him in all his sporting
expeditions--for I should tell you that he was a thorough sportsman, and, I believe, entertained
some wild notion that he should be able to make one of me. One unfortunate morning he came
into my tent, and woke me out of a sound sleep into which I had fallen, after being kept awake
half the night by the most diabolical howls and screams that ever were heard out of bedlam,
expecting every minute to see some of the performers step in to sup, not with, but upon, me.

"'Come, Frampton, wake up, man,' cried Slingsby; 'here's great and glorious news.'

"'What is it?' said I--'have they found another hamper of ale among the baggage?'

"'Ale! nonsense,' was the reply. 'A shikkaree (native hunter) has just come into camp to say
that a young bullock was carried off yesterday, and is lying half eaten in the jungle about
a mile from this place; so at last, my boy, I shall have the pleasure of introducing you to
a real live tiger.'

"'Thank ye,' said I, 'you're very kind; but if it's at all inconvenient to you this morning
you can put it off: another day will do quite as well for me--I'm not in the least hurry.'

"It was of no use, however; all I got for my pains was a poke in the ribs, and an injunction
to lose no time in getting ready.

"Before we had done breakfast the great man of the neighbourhood, Rajah somebody or other,
made his ~237~~appearance on his elephant, attended by a train of tawnies, who were to undertake
the agreeable duty of beating. Not being considered fit to take care of myself--a melancholy
fact of which I was only too conscious--it was decreed that Slingsby and I should occupy the
same howdah. Accordingly, at the time appointed, we mounted our elephant; and having a formidable
array of guns handed up to us, we started.

"As my companion, and, indeed, every one else concerned in the matter, evidently considered
it completely as a party of pleasure, and seemed prepared to enjoy themselves to the utmost,
I endeavoured to persuade myself that I did so too; and, consoled by the reflection that if
the tiger had positively eaten half a bullock yesterday afternoon, it never could be worth
his while to scale our elephant, and run the risk of being shot, for the sake of devouring
me, I felt rather bold than otherwise. After proceeding for some distance through the jungle,
and rousing, as it seemed to me, every beast that had come out of Noah's Ark, except a tiger,
our elephant, who had hitherto conducted himself in a very quiet and gentlemanly manner, suddenly
raised his trunk and trumpeted several times--a sure sign, as the mahout informed us, that
a tiger was somewhere close at hand.

"'Now then, Frampton,' cried my companion, cocking his double-barrel, 'look out!'

"'For squalls,' returned I, finishing the sentence for him.--'Pray, is there any particular
part they like to be shot in? whereabouts shall I aim?'

"'Wherever you can,' replied Slingsby; 'be ready--there he is, by Jupiter!' and, as he spoke,
the long grass about a hundred yards in front of us was gently agitated, and I caught a glimpse
of what appeared a yellow and black streak, moving swiftly away in an opposite direction. --'Tally
ho!' shouted Slingsby, saluting the tiger with both barrels. An angry roar proved that the
shots had taken effect, and in another moment a large tiger, lashing his sides with his tail
and his eyes glaring with rage, came bounding towards us.

"'Now what's to be done?' exclaimed I--'if you had but left him alone, he was going away as
quietly as possible.'

"Slingsby's only reply was a smile, and seizing another gun, he fired again. On receiving this
shot the tiger stopped for a moment, and then, with a tremendous bound, sprang towards us,
alighting at the foot of a small tree not a yard from the elephant's head.

~238~~"'That last shot crippled him,' said my companion, 'or we should have had the pleasure
of his nearer acquaintance--now for the coup de grâce--fire away!' and as he spoke he leaned
forward to take a deliberate aim, when suddenly the front of the howdah gave way, and to my
horror Slingsby was precipitated over the elephant's head, into, as it seemed to me, the very
jaws of the tiger. A fierce growl and a suppressed cry of agony proved that the monster had
seized his prey; and I had completely given up my friend for lost, when the elephant, although
greatly alarmed, being urged on by the mahout, took a step forward, and, twisting his trunk
round the top of the young tree, bent it down across the loins of the tiger, thus forcing the
tortured animal to quit his hold, and affording Slingsby an opportunity of crawling beyond
the reach of its teeth and claws. Forgetting my own fears in the imminence of my friend's danger,
I only waited till I could get a shot at the tiger without running the risk of hurting Slingsby,
and then fired both barrels at his head, and was lucky enough to wound it mortally. The other
sportsmen coming up at the moment, the brute received its quietus, but poor Slingsby's arm
was broken where the tiger had seized it with its teeth, and his shoulders and chest were severely
lacerated by its claws, nor did he entirely recover the shock for many months.{1} And this
was my first introduction to a royal tiger, sir. I saw many of 'em afterwards, during the time
I spent in India, but I can't say I ever had much liking for their society--umph!"

This anecdote brought others in its train--minutes flew by apace, the wine grew low in the
decanters, and it became apparent to me that if I would not lose the whole evening, and go
home with my brains muddled beyond all possibility of reading, I must take my departure. Accordingly,
pulling out my watch, I reminded Mr. Frampton of my previous stipulation to be allowed to run
away as soon as dinner was concluded, adding that I had already stayed longer than was altogether
prudent. The reply to this announcement was, "Umph! sit still, sir, sit still; I'm going to
ring for another bottle of port".

     1 The main facts of the foregoing anecdote are taken from
     Capt. Mundy's very interesting Pen and Pencil Sketches.

Finding, however, that I was determined, he gave up the point, adding: "Umph! well, if you
must go, you must, I suppose--though you might refuse a worse offer;--but, if you really are
anxious about your studies and ~239~~wish to distinguish yourself, I won't be the man to hinder
you--it's few enough of 'em are like you here, I expect"; then, sotto voce, "wish t'other young
monkey might be". "You hinted before dinner at some information I might be able to give you?"
said I interrogatively.

"Umph! did I?--aye, so I did--you see, Mr. Lee, there's a young fellow at Trinity, about your
age I should fancy, whom I used to know as a boy,--and--he was a very good boy--and--and--his
mother's a widow; poor thing--a very nice boy, I may say, he was--and as I feel a sort of interest
about him I thought that you might, perhaps, give one an idea of how he's going on--just a
notion--you understand--umph!"

"Exactly, sir," returned I, "and what may be the name of your friend?"

"Frank Fairlegh," was the answer.

"You could not have applied to a better person," replied I. "Frank Fairlegh!--why, he was one
of my most intimate friends."

"Was--umph!"

"Why, yes, it's more was than is, certainly--for since I've been reading hard, it's a positive
fact that I've scarcely seen his face."

"That looks as if he wasn't over fond of reading, then, eh?--umph!"

"You may put that interpretation upon it, certainly," replied I, "but mind, I don't say it's
the true one. I consider it would not be right in me to tell tales out of school; besides there's
nothing to tell--everybody knows Frank Fairlegh's a good fellow--ask Lawless--ask Curtis."

"Umph! Lawless? what? that wild young scamp who goes tearing about the country in a tandem,
as if a gig with one horse wasn't dangerous enough, without putting on a second to make the
thing positively terrific? he must be badly off for something to do, if he can find no better
amusement than trying how nearly he can break a fool's neck, without doing it quite;--umph!
Curtis--why, that's the name of the young gentleman--very gentle--who, the landlord tells me,
has just been rusticated for insulting Dr. Doublechin, and fastening a muzzle and chain on
one of the men they call 'bull-dogs,' saying, forsooth, that it wasn't safe to let such ferocious
animals go about loose--nice acquaintance Mr. Frank Fairlegh seems to choose, and you know
the quotation, 'Noscitur a sociis'."

"Oh," replied I, "but he has others; I have seen him in company with Mr. Wilford."

~240~~"Wilford? the noted duellist, that scoundrel who has lately shot the son of Sir John
Oaklands, as fine a young man as ever I set eyes upon?--for I have often seen him when I was
living at Helmstone; if I thought, sir, that Fairlegh was a friend of that man--I'd--I'd--well,
sir," he exclaimed, seeing my eyes fixed upon him with a degree of interest I could not conceal,
"it's nothing to you, I suppose, what I may intend to do by Mr. Frank Fairlegh! I may be his
grandfather for anything you can tell to the contrary; and I may choose to cut him off with
a shilling, I imagine, without its affecting you in any way--umph?"

"Scarcely so, Mr. Frampton," replied I, turning away to hide an irrepressible smile, "if it
is in consequence of what I have told you that you are angry with poor Frank."

"Angry, sir, angry"--was the answer--"I'm never angry--there's nothing worth being angry about
in this world. Do you take snuff, sir? I've some that came from--Umph! eh!" he continued, fumbling
in all his pockets--"hope I haven't lost my box--given me by the Begum of Cuddleakee--splendid
woman--only complexion too strong of the tawny--Umph! left it in the other room, I suppose--back
in a moment, sir--Umph! umph!" and, suiting the action to the word, he went out, slamming the
door behind him.

As the reader may suppose, I was equally surprised and pleased to find that my old friend not
only remembered our former intimacy, but felt so warm an interest in my welfare as to have
put himself quite in a rage on hearing of my supposed delinquencies. Although it had been the
means of eliciting such strong indications of his continued regard for me, I felt half sorry
for the deception I had practised upon him--the only thing that could be done now, however,
was to make myself known to him without delay, and his absence from the room enabled me to
put in practice a plan for doing so which I had had in my mind all along. Accordingly, going
up to the chimney-glass I shook my hair forward, so that it fell in waving curls about my face
and forehead--took the stiffener out of my neckcloth and, knotting the latter closely round
my throat, turned down my shirt-collar, so as to resemble as nearly as possible the Byron-tie
of my boyhood--then unbuttoning and throwing open my coat I resumed my seat, arranging the
candles so as to throw the light full upon my face as I did so. I had scarcely completed my
arrangements when I heard Mr. Frampton's footstep in ~241~~the passage, and in another moment
he entered the room. "All right, Mr. Lee, all right, sir; I found the box in my other coat-pocket;
I was afraid the thieves might have forestalled me; but--Umph!--eh!--why?--who?" Catching sight
of me as he spoke, he stopped short, and, shading his eyes with his hand, gazed earnestly at
me, with a look half-bewildered, half-incredulous. Taking advantage of his silence I inquired
in my natural tone and manner whether he had seen Dr. Mildman lately.

"Umph! eh! Dr. Mildman?" was the reply--"why it can't be--and yet it is--the boy Frank Fairlegh
himself! Oh! you young villain!" and completely overcome by the sudden and unexpected nature
of the surprise he sank back into a chair, looking the picture of astonishment.

Springing to his side, and pressing his hand warmly between my own, I exclaimed, "Forgive me
for the trick I have played you, sir. I knew you the moment I heard your voice, when I was
helping you up to-night, and, finding you did not recognise me, I could not resist the temptation
of preserving my incognito a little longer, and introducing myself as a stranger."

"Oh! you young scapegrace," was the rejoinder, "if ever I forgive you, I'll--umph!--that I
will"--then changing his tone to one of much feeling, he continued, "So you hadn't forgotten
the old man then, Frank? good boy, good boy".

I had seated myself on a stool at his feet, and as he spoke he patted my head with his hand,
as if I had been a favourite dog.

"And all the things you said against yourself were so many lies, I suppose? Umph! you are no
friend to the homicide Wilford?"

"True to the ear, but false to the sense, sir," replied I. "Harry Oaklands is the dearest friend
I have on earth; we love each other as brothers--between the man whose hand was so lately raised
to shed that brother's blood, and myself, there can be little friendship--if I do not positively
hate him, it is only because I would not willingly hate any one. Lawless was an old fellow-pupil
of mine, and, though he has many follies about him, is at bottom more kind-hearted and well-disposed
than people give him credit for; we still continue friends, therefore, but, our habits and
pursuits being essentially different, I see very little of him--with Curtis I never exchanged
half a dozen words in my life."

"Umph! I understand, I understand; and how is Harry Oaklands? better again, eh?"

~242~~The reply to this query led to my being obliged to give Mr. Frampton a succinct account
of the duel, and it was not till I explained my intention of trying for honours, and made him
comprehend the necessity of my being fully prepared for the ensuing examination, that he would
hear of my departure; and, when at last he did allow me to go, he insisted on accompanying
me to the gate of Trinity, and made me promise to let him see me as often as I was able during
his stay in Cambridge, where, he informed me, he proposed remaining till after the degrees
wore conferred.

CHAPTER XXXI -- HOW I RISE A DEGREE, AND MR. FRAMPTON GETS ELEVATED IN MORE WAYS THAN ONE

"This is as strange a thing as e'er I looked on."--The Tempest.

"These news, my lords, may cheer our drooping spirits."--King Henry VI.

"And liquor, likewise, will I give to thee, And friendship shall combine, and brotherhood."--King
Henry V.

THE week passed away like a dream, and with a beating heart and throbbing pulse I went through
the various examinations, and engaged with my competitors in the struggle for honours. Anxious
in the highest degree as to the result of my labours, I scarcely ate, drank, or slept, and,
had the necessity for exertion been protracted much longer, my mind could not have borne the
continued strain, and I should probably have had a brain fever. It was the eventful Friday
morning on which the list was to come out, and in the course of an hour or two my fate would
be known. Utterly worn out by a night which anxiety had rendered sleepless, I had hastily swallowed
a cup of tea, and, turning away from the untasted eatables, flung myself, wrapped in a dressing-gown,
on the sofa. I had not, however, lain there above a quarter of an hour, when a tap was heard
at the door, and Mr. Frampton made his appearance, attired as usual in the well-remembered
blue coat, with brass buttons, drab shorts, and gaiters, with the broad-brimmed hat, lined
with green, fixed sturdily on his head, as if it was not made to take off at any time.

~243~~"Umph! found my way up, you see! Fellow you call the gyp wanted to make me believe you
were out--thought I looked too like a governor to be let in, I suppose; but it wouldn't do,
sir; old birds are not to be caught with chaff; and he spoke with an air of such intense honesty
that I felt sure he was lying, and told him so.--Don't get up, boy, don't get up; you look
as jaded as a hunted antelope. Why, you've never touched your breakfast; you'll kill yourself
if you go on at this rate."

"It will not last much longer, sir," said I; "in about another hour or so my fate will be known.
The list comes out this morning. Some of my friends were to call for me, and we were to make
a party to go down to the Senate House together, for there is sure to be a crowd; but I shall
let them go without me, for I'm in such a state of nervous anxiety that I feel fit for nothing."

"Umph! I'll go with them, if they've no objection," returned Mr. Frampton. "If I should happen
to get knocked over in the scuffle, I shall want somebody to pick me up again. I shall like
to see how near the tail of the list they stick your name, Frank--umph!"

At this moment the door was flung open, and Lawless, Archer, and one or two more men of my
acquaintance came tumbling over one another into the room, laughing vociferously at some unknown
jest. Owing to the shape of the apartment, the place where Mr. Frampton had seated himself
was not easily to be seen as you entered, consequently none of them observed him.

"Fairlegh, old boy!" began Archer--

"Eh! here's such a tremendous go!" broke in Lawless. "Where's the smelling-bottle? Archer swears
he has just seen the ghost of Noah's great-grandfather, as he appeared when dressed in his
Sunday clothes!"

"'Pon my word it's true, and what will you lay it's a lie?" sang Archer. "Oh! if you had but
seen him, Fairlegh; he looked like--hang me if I know anything ugly enough to compare him to."

"Was he at all like me, sir?--umph!" inquired Mr. Frampton in his gruffest tone, putting on
the broad-brimmed hat, and rising slowly from his seat as he spoke.

"The very apparition itself, by Jingo!" exclaimed Archer, starting back in alarm, half real,
half affected, thereby nearly overturning Lawless, who was just behind him.

~244~~"Hold hard there, young fellow; where are you jibbing to? You'll smash my panels in a
minute, if you don't look out--eh?--why surely it's the old boy from Helmstone," continued
Lawless aside; "Mr. Frampton--sir, your most obedient."

"Same to you, sir," was the reply; "glad to see your spirits don't seem likely to fail you,
Mr. Lawless--laughing at me, all of 'em, impudent young dogs--what's t'other one's name, Frank?
the one that took me for a ghost--umph!"

"Allow me to introduce you--Mr. Frampton, Mr. Archer, Mr. Green, Mr. Lacy, Mr. Richards."

The individuals named delivered themselves of a series of nods and jerks as I pronounced their
various patronymics, and Mr. Frampton took off his hat, and made a polite bow to each man separately;
then turning to Archer, he said:--

"Pray, sir, may I inquire when and how you became so intimate with Noah's great-grandfather
as to mistake me for him?--umph!"

"Well, sir," said Archer, who was evidently taken somewhat aback by this direct appeal, "it
is an affair--that is, a circumstance--what I mean to say is--the thing, as you must see, was
completely--in fact it was quite by accident, and promiscuously, so to speak, that I mistook
you for the respectable antediluvian--I should say, for his ghost."

"Umph! don't think I look much like a ghost, either. Not that there are such things in reality;
all humbug, sir. A man goes and eats beef and pudding enough for two, has the night-mare, fancies
next morning he has seen a ghost, and the first fool he tells it to believes him. Well, Mr.
Lawless, not made a ghost of yourself by breaking your neck out of that Infernal Machine of
yours yet. Get his ex-majesty Louis Philippe to go out for a ride with you in that, and his
life would be in greater danger than all the Fieschis in France could ever put it in. Umph!"

"The horses are in first-rate condition," returned Lawless, "enough to pull a fellow's arms
off till they've done about ten miles; that takes the steel out of them a bit, and then a child
may guide them. Happy to take you a drive, Mr. Frampton, any time that suits you--eh?"

"Thank ye, sir, when that time comes I'll let you know; but I hope to live a few years longer
yet, and therefore you'll excuse my not accepting your kind offer. Besides, if Mr. Archer was
to see the ghost of Noah's great-grand-father ~245~~in a tandem, he'd never get over it." Then
came the aside: "Umph! had him there, the young jackanapes".

"Well, Fairlegh, are you coming with us?" asked Lacy; "the list must be out by this time."

"No; 'pon my word I can't," replied I. "I'm good for nothing this morning."

"Serve you right, too," said Lawless, "for refusing the second bowl of punch last night. I
told you no good would come of it, eh?"

"Positively we ought to be going," interposed Richards; "we'll bring you some news presently,
Fairlegh, that will set you all right again in no time."

"I only wish you may prove a true prophet," replied I. "Umph! if you'll allow me, I'll accompany
you, gentlemen," said Mr. Frampton; "make one of your party, umph!"

Several of those thus appealed to exchanged glances of horror, and at last Archer, who was
rather an exclusive, and particularly sensitive to ridicule, began:--

"Why, really, sir, you must excuse--"

"Umph! excuse? no excuses are required, sir; when you've lived as long as I have, you'll learn
not to care in what company you sail, so as it's honest company. Noah's great-grandfather found
out the truth of that, sir, when he had to be hail-fellow-well-met with tiger-cats and hippopotamuses
in the ark--hippopotami, I suppose you classical men call it--though, now I come to think of
it, he never was there at all. But you will let an old man go with you, there's good boys,"
continued Mr. Frampton in a tone of entreaty; "not one of you feels more interest in Frank
Fairlegh's success than I do."

"Come along, governor," exclaimed Lawless, taking him by the arm, "you and I will go together,
and if anybody gets in your way, down he goes if he were as big as Goliath of Gath. You shall
see the list as soon as any one of them, for you're a trump--a regular brick!"

"With a very odd tile on the top of it," whispered Archer, pointing to the broad brim.

"Now, then," continued Lawless, "fall in there. Follow the governor. To the right about face!
March!" So saying, he flung open the door, and arm-in-arm with Mr. Frampton hurried down the
stairs, followed by the others in double-quick time. When they were all gone I made an effort
to rouse myself from the state of lassitude and depression into which I had fallen, and ~246~~succeeded
so far as to recover sufficient energy to attempt the labour of dressing, though my hands trembled
to such a degree that I could scarcely accomplish it, and was forced to postpone the operation
of shaving to some more favourable opportunity.

Having made my outer-man respectable, I re-entered the sitting-room, and waited with impatience
for the return of my friends. Oh! the horrors of suspense! that tooth-ache of the mind, in
which each moment of anxiety r stretched on the rack of expectation, appears to the overwrought
senses an eternity of gnawing anguish!--of all the mental tortures with which I am acquainted,
defend me from suspense!

I had worked myself up into a thorough fever, and was becoming so excited that I was on the
point of rushing out to learn the worst at once, when sundry shouts, mingled with peals of
laughter, reached my ear--sounds which assured me that news was at hand. And now, with the
inconsistency of human nature, I trembled at, and would willingly have delayed, my friends'
arrival, lest it might bring me the certainty of failure, to which even the doubt and suspense
I had been so lately chafing at appeared preferable. The sounds grew louder and louder--they
were approaching. Oh! how my heart beat! in another moment they would be here. Sinking into
a chair, for my knees trembled so that I could scarcely stand, I remained with my eyes fixed
upon the door in a state of breathless anxiety. More shouting! surely that was a cheer--

"Hurrah! hurrah! out of the way there! room for the governor!"--a rush of many feet up the
stairs--more, cheering--the door is thrown open, and a party of from fifteen to twenty undergraduates
come pouring in, with Mr. Frampton in the midst of them, carried in triumph on the shoulders
of Lawless and another man, and waving a list in one hand, and the broad-brimmed hat in the other.

"Bravo, Fairlegh! all right, old fellow! never say die! hurrah!" exclaimed half a score voices,
all at once, while both my hands were seized and nearly shaken off, and I was almost annihilated
by congratulatory slaps on the back from my zealous and excited friends.

"Well," exclaimed I, as soon as I could make myself audible amidst the clamour, "I suppose
by your congratulations I'm not plucked, but how high do I stand?" "Silence there!" shouted
Lawless. "Order! order! hear the governor; he's got the list. Fire away, sir."

~247~~Thus appealed to, Mr. Frampton, who was still mounted on the shoulders of his supporters,
having cleared his throat and grunted proudly, with an air of majesty read as follows:--

"Kushbrooke, Senior Wrangler--Crosby, second--Barham, third--Fairlegh, fourth!"

"Nonsense," exclaimed I, springing up, "the thing's impossible!"

"What an unbelieving Jew it is," said Archer; "hand him the list, and let him read it himself.
Seeing is believing, they say."

Yes, there it was, beyond all possibility of doubt; with my own eyes did I behold it. "Fairlegh,
fourth Wrangler!" Why, even in my wildest moments of hope my imagination had never taken so
high a flight. Fourth Wrangler! oh! it was too delightful to be real. So overcome was I by
this unexpected stroke of good fortune, that for a minute or two I was scarcely conscious of
what was going on around me, and returned rambling and incoherent answers to the congratulations
which were showered upon me. The first thing that roused my attention was a shout from Lawless,
demanding a hearing, for that "the governor," as he persisted in calling Mr. Frampton, was
going to make a speech. The cry was immediately taken up by the others, who for some moments
defeated their own purpose by calling vociferously for "silence for the governor's speech!"
Having at length, from sheer want of breath, obtained the required boon, Mr. Frampton, waving
his hand with a dignified gesture, began as follows:--

"Umph! on this happy occasion, gentlemen--set of noisy young scamps!--on this happy occasion,
I say"--(shouts of encore! bravo! etc.)--"what I was going to say was--umph!" (a cry of "You
have said it," from a man near the door, who thought he could not be seen, but was). "Much
obliged to you, sir, for your observation," continued Mr. Frampton, fixing his glance unmistakably
on the Detected One, "but I have not said it, nor does it seem very likely I ever shall say
it, if you continue to interrupt me with your wretched attempts at wit." (Cries of "Hear! hear!
don't interrupt the governor! Shame! shame!" and an aside from Mr. Frampton, "Had him there,
umph!" during all of which the detected individual was striving to open the door, which several
men, who had perceived his design, held firmly against him.) "What I was going to say," resumed
the speaker, "when that gentleman who is trying to leave the room ~248~~interrupted me" (more
cries of "Shame!"), "was, that I beg, in the name of my friend, Frank Fairlegh, to invite you
all to a champagne breakfast in his rooms to-morrow," (tremendous cheering, and a cry of "Bravo,
governor! you are a brick!" from Lawless), "and in my own name to thank you all, except the
gentleman near the door, who has not yet, I see, had the grace to leave the room, for the patience
with which you've listened to me," (laughter, and cries of "It was a shame to interrupt him,"
at which the Detected One, with a frantic gesture, gives up the door, and, turning very pale,
glances insanely towards the window), "and for the very flattering attentions which you have
all of you generally, and Mr. Archer in particular, done me the honour of paying me."

A perfect tornado of cheers and laughter followed Mr. Frampton's speech, after which I thanked
them all for the kind interest they had expressed in my success, and begged to second Mr. Frampton's
invitation for the following day. This matter being satisfactorily arranged, certain of the
party laid violent hands on the Detected One, who was a very shy freshman of the name of Pilkington,
and, despite his struggles, made him go down on his knees and apologise in set phrase to Mr.
Frampton for his late unjustifiable conduct; whereupon that gentleman, who enjoyed the joke,
and entered into it with as much zest as the veriest pickle among them, sternly, and with many
grunts, rebuked and then pardoned him.

The champagne breakfast on the following morning who shall describe! What pen, albeit accustomed
to the highest nights imaginable, may venture to depict the humours of that memorable entertainment!
How, when the company were assembled, it was discovered Mr. Pilkington was missing, and a party,
headed by Lawless, proceeded to his rooms, which were on the same staircase, and brought him
down, vi et armis, in a state of mind bordering on distraction, picturesquely attired in a
dressing-gown, slippers, and smoking-cap, of a decidedly oriental character; and how, when
they had forced him into a seat of honour at Mr. Frampton's right hand, that gentleman discovered
in him a striking likeness to his particular friend the Rajah of Bundleoragbag, which name,
being instantly adopted by the company, he was invariably addressed by ever after. How, as
the champagne circulated, the various members of the party began to come out strong, according
to their several idiosyncrasies, every man who had a peculiarity exhibiting it for the benefit
of the others; while those who had not ~249~~were even more amusing, either from their aping
the manners of somebody else, or from the sheer absurdity of uttering insipid commonplaces
in such an atmosphere of fun and frolic. How, later in the day, after healths had been drunk,
and thanks returned, till every one, save Pilkington, was hoarse with shouting, that individual
was partly coaxed, partly coerced into attempting to sing the only song he knew, which proved
to be, "We met"; in which performance, after making four false starts, and causing a great
many more meetings to take place than the author of the song ever contemplated, he contrived,
in a voice suggestive of a sudden attack of cholera, to get as far as the words, "For thou
art the cause of this anguish, my mother," when he was interrupted by such a chorus of laughter
as completely annihilated him for the rest of the day.

How Mr. Frampton, without giving the slightest warning of his intention, or there being anything
in the subject of the conversation generally to lead thereunto, began to relate his adventure
with the tiger of Bundleapoor; while Lawless favoured the company with a full, true and particular
account of a surprising run with the royal stag-hounds; and Archer, who had grown sentimental,
with tears in his eyes, entered into a minute detail of certain passages in a romantic attachment
he had conceived for a youthful female branch of the aristocracy, whom he designated as Lady
Barbara B.; and how these three gentlemen continued their various recitals all at one and the
same time, edifying the company by some such composite style of dialogue as the following:--

"So, sir, Slingsby roused me by a kick in the ribs, saying --umph!"--"Fairest, loveliest of
thy sex,"--"Shove on your boots and buckskins, stick a cigar in your mouth, and clap your leg
over,"--"An elephant half as high again as this room; take a couple of double-barrelled rifles,
and"--"Slap at everything that comes in your way; no craning, ram in the persuaders, and if
you do get a purl"--"Look upon it as the purest, brightest gem in your noble father's coronet,
for true affection"--"Flung him clean into the tiger's jaws, sir, and the beast"--"Drew her
handkerchief across her eyes, and said, in a voice which quivered with emotion, 'Love between
two young creatures, situated as we are, would be utter madness, Charles'. To which I replied,
'Barbara, my own sweet girl,'"--"Mind your eye, and look out for squalls, for that's a rasper,
and no mistake".

How all this took place, together with much more notable merriment, not many degrees removed
from "tipsy mirth and jollity," we will leave to the fertile imagination of the reader to depict.
Suffice it to say that, ere we broke up, Mr. Frampton had distinctly pledged himself to ride
one of Lawless's horses the next hunting-day, and to accompany Archer on a three weeks' visit
to the country seat of Lady Barbara B.'s noble father, with some ulterior views on his own
account in regard to a younger sister.~250~~

FRANK FAIRLEGH

Part II.

CHAPTER XXXII -- CATCHING SIGHT OF AN OLD FLAME

~250~~

          "Give me thy hand... I'm glad to find thee here."
          The Lover's Melancholy.

          "Half light, half shade,
          She stood, a sight to make an old man young."
          The Gardener's Daughter.

UTTERLY worn out, both in mind and body, by hard reading and confinement, I determined to return
to Heathfield forthwith, with "all my blushing honours thick upon me," and enjoy a few weeks'
idleness before again engaging in any active course of study which might be necessary to fit
me for my future profession. When the post came in, however, I received a couple of letters
which rather militated against my intention of an immediate return home. A note from Harry
Oaklands informed me, that having some weeks ago been ordered to a milder air, he and Sir John
had chosen Clifton, their decision being influenced by the fact of an old and valued friend
of Sir John's residing there. He begged me to let him hear all the Cambridge news, and hoped
I should join him as soon as Mrs. Fairlegh and my sister would consent to part with me. For
himself, he said, he felt somewhat stronger, but still suffered much from the wound in his
side. The second letter was from my mother, saying she had received an invitation from an old
lady, a cousin of my father's, who resided in London, and, as she thought change of scene would
do Fanny good, she had accepted it. She had been there already one week, and proposed returning
at the end of the next, which she hoped would be soon enough to welcome me after the conclusion
of my labours at the university.

Unable to make up my mind whether to remain where I was for a week longer, or to return and
await my mother's arrival at the cottage, I threw on my cap and gown and ~251~~ strolled out,
the fresh air appearing quite a luxury to me after having been shut up so long. As I passed
through the street where old Maurice the pastry-cook lived I thought I would call and learn
how Lizzie was going on, as I knew Harry would be anxious for information on this point. On
entering the shop I was most cordially received by the young lady herself, who had by this
time quite recovered her good looks, and on the present occasion appeared unusually gay and
animated, which was soon accounted for when her father, drawing me aside, informed me that
she was going to be married to a highly respectable young baker, who had long ago fallen a
victim to her charms, and on whom she had of late deigned to take pity; the severe lesson she
had been taught having induced her to overlook his intense respectability, high moral excellence,
and round, good-natured face--three strong disqualifications which had stood dreadfully in
his way when striving to render himself agreeable to the romantic Fornarina. I was answering
their inquiries after Oaklands, of whom they spoke in terms of the deepest gratitude, when
a young fellow, wrapped up in a rough pea-jacket, bustled into the shop, and, without perceiving
me, accosted Lizzie as follows:--

"Pray, young lady, can you inform me--what glorious buns!--where Mr.--that is to say, which
of these funny old edifices may happen to be Trinity College?"

On receiving the desired information, he continued, "Much obliged. I really must trouble you
for another bun. Made by your own fair hands, I presume? You see, I'm quite a stranger to this
quaint old town of yours, where half the houses look like churches, and all the men like the
parsons and clerks belonging to them, taking a walk in their canonicals, with four-cornered
hats on their heads--abortive attempts to square the circle, I conclude. Wonderful things,
very. But when I get to Trinity, how am I to find the man I want, one Mr. Frank Fairlegh?"
Here I took the liberty of interrupting the speaker, whom I had long since recognised as Coleman--though
what could have brought him to Cambridge I was at a loss to conceive--by coming behind him,
and saying, in a gruff voice, "I am sorry you keep such low company, young man".

"And pray who may you be that are so ready with your 'young man,' I should like to know? I
shall have to teach you something your tutors and dons seem to have forgotten, and that is,
manners, fellow!" exclaimed Freddy, turning round with a face as red as a turkey-cock, ~252~~
and not recognising me at first in my cap and gown; then looking at me steadily for a moment,
he continued, "The very man himself, by all that's comical! This is the way you read for your
degree, is it?" Then with a glance towards Lizzie Maurice, he sang:--

          "'My only books
          Were woman's looks,
          And folly all they taught me'.

It's a Master of Hearts you're striving to become, I suppose?"

"Nonsense," replied I quickly, for I saw poor Lizzie coloured and looked uncomfortable; "we
don't allow bad puns to be made at Cambridge."

"Then, faith, unless the genius loci inspires me with good ones," returned Freddy, as we left
the shop together, "the sooner I'm out of it the better."

Ten minutes' conversation served to inform me that Freddy, having been down to Bury St. Edmund's
on business, had stopped at Cambridge on his way back in order to find me out, and, if possible,
induce me to accompany him home to Hillingford, and spend a few days there. This arrangement
suited my case exactly, as it nearly filled up the space of time which must elapse before my
mother's return, and I gladly accepted his invitation. In turn, I pressed him to remain a day
or two with me, and see the lions of Cambridge; but it appeared that the mission on which he
had been despatched was an important one, and would not brook delay; he must therefore return
at once to report progress. As he could not stay with me, the most advisable thing seemed to
be that I should go back with him. Returning, therefore, to my rooms, I set Freddy to work
on some bread and cheese and ale, whilst I hastened to cram a portmanteau and carpet-bag with
various indispensables. I then ran to the Hoop, and took an affectionate farewell of Mr. Frampton,
making him promise to pay me a visit at Heathfield Cottage; and, in less than two hours from
the time Coleman had first made his appearance, we were seated together on the roof of a stage-coach,
and bowling along merrily towards Hillingford.

During our drive Coleman recounted to me his adventures in search of Cumberland on the day
preceding the duel, and gave me a more minute description than I had yet heard of the disreputable
nature of that individual's pursuits. From what Coleman could learn, Cumberland, after having
lost at the gaming-table large sums of ~253~~ money, of which he had by some means contrived
to obtain possession, had become connected with a gambling-house not far from St. James's Street,
and was supposed to be one of its proprietors. Just before Coleman left town, there had been
an exposé of certain shameful proceedings which had taken place at this house--windows had
been broken, and the police obliged to make a forcible entrance; but Cumberland had as yet
contrived to keep his name from appearing, although it was known that he was concerned in the
affair, and would be obliged to keep out of the way at present. "We shall take the old lady
by surprise, I've a notion," said Freddy, as the coach set us down within ten minutes' walk
of Elm Lodge. "I did not think I should have got the Bury St. Edmund's job over till to-morrow,
and wrote her word not to expect me till she saw me; but she'll be glad enough to have somebody
to enliven her, for the governor's in town, and Lucy Markham is gone to stay with one of her
married sisters."

"I hope I shall not cause any inconvenience, or annoy your mother."

"Annoy my grandmother! and she was dead before I was born!" exclaimed Freddy disdainfully.
"Why, bless your sensitive heart, nothing that I can do annoys my mother: if I chose to bring
home a mad bull in fits, or half a dozen young elephants with the hooping-cough, she would
not be annoyed." Thus assured, nothing remained for me but silent acquiescence, and in a few
minutes we reached the house.

"Where's your mistress?" inquired Freddy of the man-servant who showed us into the drawing-room.

"Upstairs, sir, I believe; I'll send to let her know that you are arrived."

"Do so," replied Coleman, making a vigorous attack upon the fire.

"Why, Freddy, I thought you said your cousin was away from home?" inquired I.

"So she is; and what's more, she won't be back for a fortnight," was the answer.

"Here's a young lady's bonnet, however," said I.

"Nonsense," replied he; "it must be one of my mother's."

"Does Mrs. Coleman wear such spicy affairs as this?" said I, holding up for his inspection
a most piquant little velvet bonnet lined with pink.

"By Jove, no!" was the reply; "a mysterious young lady! I say, Frank, this is interesting."

As he spoke the door flew open, and Mrs. Coleman ~254~~ bustled in, in a great state of maternal
affection, and fuss, and confusion, and agitation.

"Why, Freddy, my dear boy, I'm delighted to see you, only I wish you hadn't come just now;--and
you too, Mr. Fairlegh--and such a small loin of mutton for dinner; but I'm so glad to see you--looking
like a ghost, so pale and thin," she added, shaking me warmly by the hand; "but what I am to
do about it, or to say to him when he comes back--only I'm not a prophet to guess things before
they happen--and if I did I should always be wrong, so what use would that be, I should like
to know?"

"Why, what's the row, eh, mother? the cat hasn't kittened, has she?" asked Freddy.

"No, my dear, no, it's not that; but, your father being in town, it has all come upon me so
unexpectedly; poor thing! and she looking so pretty, too; oh, dear! when I said I was all alone,
I never thought I shouldn't be; and so he left her here."

"And who may her be?" inquired Freddy, setting grammar at defiance, "the cat or the governor?"

"Why, my love, it's very unlucky--very awkward indeed; but one comfort is we're told it's all
for the best when everything goes wrong--a very great comfort that is if one could only believe
it; but poor Mr. Vernor, you see he was quite unhappy, I'm sure, he looked so cross, and no
wonder, having to go up to London all in a hurry, and such a cold day too."

At the mention of this name my attention, which had been gradually dying a natural death, suddenly
revived, and it was with a degree of impatience, which I could scarcely restrain, that I awaited
the conclusion of Mrs. Coleman's rambling account. After a great deal of circumlocution, of
which I will mercifully spare the reader the infliction, the following facts were elicited:--About
an hour before our arrival, Mr. Vernor, accompanied by his ward, had called to see Mr. Coleman,
and, finding he was from home, had asked for a few minutes' conversation with the lady of the
house. His reason for so doing soon appeared; he had received letters requiring his immediate
presence in London on business, which might probably detain him for a day or two; and not liking
to leave Miss Saville quite alone, he had called with the intention of begging Mrs. Coleman
to allow her niece, Lucy Markham, to stay with her friend at Barstone Priory till his return,
and to save her from the horrors of solitude. This plan being rendered impracticable by reason
of Lucy's absence.

~255~~ Mrs. Coleman proposed that Miss Saville should remain with her till Mr. Vernor's return,
which, she added, would be conferring a benefit on her, as her husband and son being both from
home, she was sadly dull without a companion. This plan having removed all difficulties, Mr.
Vernor proceeded on his journey without further delay. Good Mrs. Coleman's agitation on our
arrival bad been produced by the consciousness that Mr. Vernor would by no means approve of
the addition of two dangerous young men to the party; however, Freddy consoled her by the ingenious
sophism that it was much better for us to have arrived together than for him to have returned
alone, as we should now neutralise each other's attractions; and, while the young lady's pleasure
in our society would be doubled, she would be effectually guarded against falling in love with
either of us, by reason of the impossibility of her overlooking the equal merits of what Mrs.
Coleman would probably have termed "the survivor ". Having settled this knotty point to his
own satisfaction, and perplexed his mother into the belief that our arrival was rather a fortunate
circumstance than otherwise, Freddy despatched her to break the glorious tidings, as he called
it, to the young lady, cautioning her to do so carefully, and by degrees, for that joy was
very often quite as dangerous in its effects as sorrow.

Having closed the door after her, he relieved his feelings by a slight extempore hornpipe,
and then slapping me on the back, exclaimed, "Here's a transcendent go! if this ain't taking
the change out of old Vernor, I'm a Dutchman. Frank, you villain, you lucky dog, you've got
it all your own way this time; not a chance for me; I may as well shut up shop at once, and
buy myself a pair of pumps to dance in at your wedding."

"My dear fellow, how can you talk such utter nonsense?" returned I, trying to persuade myself
that I was not pleased, but annoyed, at his insinuations.

"It's no nonsense, Master Frank, but, as I consider it, a very melancholy statement of facts.
Why, even putting aside your 'antécédents,' as the French have it, the roasted wrist, the burnt
ball-dress, and all the rest of it, look at your present advantages; here you are, just returned
from the university, covered with academical honours, your cheeks paled by deep and abstruse
study over the midnight lamp; your eyes flashing with unnatural lustre, indicative of an overwrought
mind; a graceful languor softening the nervous energy of your manner, and imparting additional
tenderness to the ~256~~ fascination of your address; in fact, till you begin to get into condition
again you are the very beau ideal of what the women consider interesting and romantic."

"Well done, Freddy," replied I, "we shall discover a hidden vein of poetry in you some of these
fine days; but talking of condition leads me to ask what time your good mother intends us to dine?"

"There, now you have spoilt it all," was the rejoinder; "however, viewed abstractedly, and
without reference to the romantic, it's not such a bad notion either. I'll ring and inquire."

He accordingly did so, and, finding we had not above half an hour to wait, he proposed that
we should go to our dressing-rooms and adorn before we attempted to face "the enemy," as he
rudely designated Miss Saville.

It was not without a feeling of trepidation, for which I should have been at a loss to account,
that I ventured to turn the handle of the drawing-room door, where I expected to find the party
assembled before dinner. Miss Saville, who was seated on a low chair by Mrs. Coleman's side,
rose quietly on my entrance, and advanced a step or two to meet me, holding out her hand with
the unembarrassed familiarity of an old acquaintance. The graceful ease of her manner at once
restored my self-possession, and, taking her proffered hand, I expressed my pleasure at thus
unexpectedly meeting her again.

"You might have come here a hundred times without finding me, although Mrs. Coleman is kind
enough to invite me very often," she replied. "But I seldom leave home; Mr. Vernor always appears
to dislike parting with me."

"I can easily conceive that," returned I; "nay, although, in common with your other friends,
I am a sufferer by his monopoly, I can almost pardon him for yielding to so strong a temptation."

"I wish I could flatter myself that the very complimentary construction you put upon it were
the true one," replied Miss Saville, blushing slightly; "but I am afraid I should be deceiving
myself if I were to imagine my society were at all indispensable to my guardian. I believe
if you were to question him on the subject you would learn that his system is based rather
on the Turkish notion, that, in order to keep a woman out of mischief, you must shut her up."

"Really, Miss Saville," exclaimed Coleman, who had entered the room in time to overhear her
speech, "I am shocked to find you comparing your respectable and ~257~~ revered guardian to
a heathen Turk, and Frank Fairlegh, instead of reproving you for it, aiding, abetting, encouraging,
and, to speak figuratively, patting you on the back."

"I'm sure, Freddy," interrupted Mrs. Coleman, who had been aroused from one of her customary
fits of absence by the last few words, "Mr. Fairlegh was doing nothing of the sort; he knows
better than to think of such a thing. And if he didn't, do you suppose I should sit here and
allow him to take such liberties? But I believe it's all your nonsense--and where you got such
strange ideas I'm sure I can't tell; not out of Mrs. Trimmer's Sacred History, I'm certain,
though you used to read it with me every Sunday afternoon when you were a good little boy,
trying to look out of the window all the time, instead of paying proper attention to your books."

During the burst of laughter which followed this speech, and in which Miss Saville, after an
ineffectual struggle to repress the inclination, out of respect to Mrs. Coleman, was fain to
join, dinner was announced, and Coleman pairing off with the young lady, whilst I gave my arm
to the old one, we proceeded to the dining-room.

CHAPTER XXXIII -- WOMAN'S A RIDDLE

          "Let mirth and music sound the dirge of care,
          But ask thou not if happiness be there."
          The Lord of the Isles.

          "And here she came...
          And sang to me the whole Of those three stanzas."
          The Talking Oak.

          "Yet this is also true, that, long before,
          My heart was like a prophet to my heart,
          And told me I should love."
          Tennyson.

"DON'T you consider Fairlegh to be looking very thin and pale, Miss Saville?" inquired Coleman,
when we joined the ladies after dinner, speaking with an air of such genuine solicitude, that
any one not intimately acquainted with him must have imagined him in earnest. Miss Saville,
who was completely taken in, answered innocently, "Indeed I have thought Mr. Fairlegh much
altered since I had the pleasure of meeting him before"; ~258~~ then, glancing at my face with
a look of unfeigned interest, which sent the blood bounding rapidly through my veins, she continued:
"You have not been ill, I hope?" I was hastening to reply in the negative, and to enlighten
her as to the real cause of my pale looks, when Coleman interrupted me by exclaiming:--

"Ah! poor fellow, it is a melancholy affair. In those pale cheeks, that wasted though still
graceful form, and the weak, languid, and unhappy, but deeply interesting tout ensemble, you
perceive the sad results of--am I at liberty to mention it?--of an unfortunate attachment."

"Upon my word, Freddy, you are too bad," exclaimed I half angrily, though I could scarcely
refrain from laughing, for the pathetic expression of his countenance was perfectly irresistible.
"Miss Saville, I can assure you--let me beg of you to believe, that there is not a word of
truth in what he has stated."

"Wait a moment, you're so dreadfully fast, my dear fellow, you won't allow a man time to finish
what he is saying," remonstrated my tormentor--"attachment to his studies I was going to add,
only you interrupted me."

"I see I shall have to chastise you before you learn to behave yourself properly," replied
I, shaking my fist at him playfully; "remember you taught me how to use the gloves at Dr. Mildman's,
and I have not quite forgotten the science even yet."

"Hit a man your own size, you great big monster you," rejoined Coleman, affecting extreme alarm.
"Miss Saville, I look to you to protect me from his tyranny; ladies always take the part of
the weak and oppressed."

"But they do not interfere to shield evil-doers from the punishment due to their misdemeanours,"
replied Miss Saville archly.

"There now," grumbled Freddy, "that's always the way; every one turns against me. I'm a victim,
though I have not formed an unfortunate attachment for--anything or anybody."

"I should like to see you thoroughly in love for once in your life, Freddy," said I; "it would
be as good as a comedy."

"Thank ye," was the rejoinder, "you'd be a pleasant sort of fellow to make a confidant of,
I don't think. Here's a man now, who calls himself one's friend, and fancies it would be 'as
good as a comedy' to witness the display of our noblest affections, and would have all the
tenderest emotions of our nature laid bare, for him to poke fun at--the barbarian!" ~259~~
"I did not understand Mr. Fairlegh's remark to apply to affaires du cour in general, but simply
to the effects likely to be produced in your case by such an attack," observed Miss Saville,
with a quiet smile.

"A very proper distinction," returned I; "I see that I cannot do better than leave my defence
in your hands."

"It is quite clear that you have both entered into a plot against me," rejoined Freddy; "well,
never mind, mea virtute me involvo: I wrap myself in a proud consciousness of my own immeasurable
superiority, and despise your attacks."

"I have read, that to begin by despising your enemy, is one of the surest methods of losing
the battle," replied Miss Saville.

"Oh! if you are going to quote history against me, I yield at once--there is nothing alarms
me so much as the sight of a blue-stocking," answered Freddy.

Miss Saville proceeded to defend herself with much vivacity against this charge, and they continued
to converse in the same light strain for some time longer; Coleman, as usual, being exceedingly
droll and amusing, and the young lady displaying a decided talent for delicate and playful
badinage. In order to enter con spirito into this style of conversation, we must either be
in the enjoyment of high health and spirits, when our light-heartedness finds a natural vent
in gay raillery and sparkling repartee, or we must be suffering a sufficient degree of positive
unhappiness to make us feel that a strong effort is necessary to screen our sorrow from the
careless gaze of those around us. Now, though Coleman had not been far wrong in describing
me as "weak, languid, and unhappy," mine was not a positive, but a negative unhappiness, a
gentle sadness, which was rather agreeable than otherwise, and towards which I was by no means
disposed to use the slightest violence. I was in the mood to have shed tears with the love-sick
Ophelia, or to moralise with the melancholy Jaques, but should have considered Mercutio a man
of no feeling, and the clown a "very poor fool" indeed. In this frame of mind, the conversation
appeared to me to have assumed such an essentially frivolous turn, that I soon ceased to take
any share in it, and, turning over the leaves of a book of prints as an excuse for my silence,
endeavoured to abstract my thoughts altogether from the scene around me, and employ them on
some subject less dissonant to my present tone of feeling. As is usually the result in such
cases, the attempt proved a dead failure, and I soon found ~260~~ myself speculating on the
lightness and frivolity of women in general, and of Clara Saville in particular.

"How thoroughly absurd and misplaced," thought I, as her silvery laugh rang harshly on my distempered
ear, "were all my conjectures that she was unhappy, and that, in the trustful and earnest expression
of those deep blue eyes, I could read the evidence of a secret grief, and a tacit appeal for
sympathy to those whom her instinct taught her were worthy of her trust and confidence! Ah!
well, I was young and foolish then (it was not quite a year and a half ago), and imagination
found an easy dupe in me; one learns to see things in their true light as one grows older,
but it is sad how the doing so robs life of all its brightest illusions."

It did not occur to me at that moment that there was a slight injustice in accusing Truth of
petty larceny in regard to a bright illusion in the present instance, as the fact (if fact
it were) of proving that Miss Saville was happy instead of miserable could scarcely be reckoned
among that class of offences.

"Come, Freddy," exclaimed Mrs. Coleman, suddenly waking up to a sense of duty, out of a dangerous
little nap in which she had been indulging, and which occasioned me great uneasiness, by reason
of the opportunity it afforded her for the display of an alarming suicidal propensity, which
threatened to leave Mr. Coleman a disconsolate widower, and Freddy motherless.

As a warning to all somnolent old ladies, it may not be amiss to enter a little more fully
into detail. The attack commenced by her sitting bolt upright in her chair, with her eyes so
very particularly open, that it seemed as if, in her case, Macbeth or some other wonder-worker
had effectually "murdered sleep". By slow degrees, however, her eyelids began to close; she
grew less and less "wide awake," and ere long was fast as a church; her next move was to nod
complacently to the company in general, as if to demand their attention; she then oscillated
gently to and fro for a few seconds to get up the steam, and concluded the performance by suddenly
flinging her head back, with an insane jerk, over the rail of the chair, at the imminent risk
of breaking her neck, uttering a loud snort of triumph as she did so.

Trusting the reader will pardon, and the humane society award me a medal for this long digression,
I resume the thread of my narrative.

"Freddy, my dear, can't you sing us that droll Italian song your cousin Lucy taught you? I'm
sure poor Miss Saville must feel quite dull and melancholy."

~261~~ "Would to Heaven she did!" murmured I to myself. "Who is to play it for me?" asked Coleman.
"Well, my love, I'll do my best," replied his mother; "and, if I should make a few mistakes,
it will only sound all the funnier, you know."

This being quite unanswerable, the piano was opened, and, after Mrs. Coleman's spectacles had
been hunted for in all probable places, and discovered at last in the coal-scuttle, a phenomenon
which that good lady accounted for on the score of "John's having flurried her so when he brought
in tea"; and when, moreover, she had been with difficulty prevailed on to allow the music-book
to remain the right way upwards, the song was commenced.

As Freddy had a good tenor voice, and sang the Italian buffa song with much humour, the performance
proved highly successful, although Mrs. Coleman was as good as her word in introducing some
original and decidedly "funny" chords into the accompaniment, which would have greatly discomposed
the composer, if he had by any chance overheard them.

"I did not know that you were such an accomplished performer, Freddy," observed I; "you are
quite an universal genius."

"Oh, the song was capital!" said Miss Saville, "and Mr. Coleman sang it with so much spirit."

"Really," returned Freddy, with a low bow, "you do me proud, as brother Jonathan says; I am
actually-- that is, positively--"

"My dear Freddy," interrupted Mrs. Coleman, "I wish you would go and fetch Lucy's music; I'm
sure Miss Saville can sing some of her songs; it's--let me see--yes, it's either downstairs
in the study, or in the boudoir, or in the little room at the top of the house, or, if it isn't,
you had better ask Susan about it."

"Perhaps the shortest way will be to consult Susan at once," replied Coleman, as he turned
to leave the room.

"I presume you prefer buffa songs to music of a more pathetic character?" inquired I, addressing
Miss Saville.

"You judge from my having praised the one we have just heard, I suppose?"

"Yes, and from the lively style of your conversation; I have been envying your high spirits
all the evening."

"Indeed!" was the reply; "and why should you envy them?"

"Are they not an indication of happiness, and is not that an enviable possession?" returned I.

"Yes, indeed!" she replied in a low voice, but with such passionate earnestness as quite to
startle me. "Is 262~~ laughing, then, such an infallible indication of happiness?" she continued.

"One usually supposes so," replied I.

To this she made no answer, unless a sigh can be called one, and, turning away, began looking
over the pages of a music-book.

"Is there nothing you can recollect to sing, my dear?" asked Mrs. Coleman.

She paused for a moment as if in thought, ere she replied:--

"There is an old air, which I think I could remember; but I do not know whether you will like
it. The words," she added, glancing towards me, "refer to the subject on which we have just
been speaking."

She then seated herself at the instrument, and, after striking a few simple chords, sang, in
a sweet, rich soprano, the following stanzas;--

          I

          "Behold, how brightly seeming
          All nature shows:
          In golden sunlight gleaming,
          Blushes the rose.
          How very happy things must be
          That are so bright and fair to see!
          Ah, no! in that sweet flower,
          A worm there lies;
          And lo! within the hour,
          It fades--it dies.

          II

          "Behold, young Beauty's glances
          Around she flings;
          While as she lightly dances,
          Her soft laugh rings:
          How very happy they must be,
          Who are as young and gay as she!
          'Tis not when smiles are brightest,
          So old tales say,
          The bosom's lord sits lightest--
          Ah! well-a-day!

          III

          "Beneath the greenwood's cover
          The maiden steals,
          And, as she meets her lover,
          Her blush reveals
          How very happy all must be
          Who love with trustful constancy.
          By cruel fortune parted,
          She learns too late,
          How some die broken-hearted--
          Ah! hapless fate!"

~263~~ The air to which these words were set was a simple, plaintive, old melody, well suited
to their expression, and Miss Saville sang with much taste and feeling. When she reached the
last four lines of the second verse, her eyes met mine for an instant, with a sad, reproachful
glance, as if upbraiding me for having misunderstood her; and there was a touching sweetness
in her voice, as she almost whispered the refrain, "Ah! well-a-day!" which seemed to breathe
the very soul of melancholy.

"Strange, incomprehensible girl!" thought I, as I gazed with a feeling of interest I could
not restrain, upon her beautiful features, which were now marked by an expression of the most
touching sadness--"who could believe that she was the same person who, but five minutes since,
seemed possessed by the spirit of frolic and merriment, and appeared to have eyes and ears
for nothing beyond the jokes and drolleries of Freddy Coleman?"

"That's a very pretty song, my dear," said Mrs. Coleman; "and I'm very much obliged to you
for singing it, only it has made me cry so, it has given me quite a cold in my head, I declare;"
and, suiting the action to the word, the tender-hearted old lady began to wipe her eyes, and
execute sundry other manoeuvres incidental to the malady she had named. At this moment Freddy
returned, laden with music-books. Miss Saville immediately fixed upon a lively duet which would
suit their voices, and song followed song, till Mrs. Coleman, waking suddenly in a fright,
after a tremendous attempt to break her neck, which was very near proving successful, found
out that it was past eleven o'clock, and consequently bed-time.

It can scarcely be doubted that my thoughts, as I fell asleep (for, unromantic as it may appear,
truth compels me to state that I never slept better in my life), turned upon my unexpected
meeting with Clara Saville. The year and a half which had elapsed since the night of the ball
had altered her from a beautiful girl into a lovely woman. Without in the slightest degree
diminishing its grace and elegance, the outline of her figure had become more rounded, while
her features had acquired a depth of expression which was not before observable, and which
was the only thing wanting to render them (I had almost said) perfect. In her manner there
was also a great alteration; the quiet reserve she had maintained when in the presence of Mr.
Vernor, and the calm frankness displayed during our accidental meeting in Barstone ~264~~ Park,
had alike given way to a strange excitability, which at times showed itself in the bursts of
wild gaiety which had annoyed my fastidious sensitiveness in the earlier part of the evening,
at others in the deep impassioned feeling she threw into her singing, though I observed that
it was only in such songs as partook of a melancholy and even despairing character that she
did so. The result of my meditations was, that the young lady was an interesting enigma, and
that I could not employ the next two or three days to better advantage than in "doing a little
bit of OEdipus." as Coleman would have termed it, or, in plain English, "finding her out ";--and
hereabouts I fell asleep.

CHAPTER XXXIV -- THE RIDDLE BAFFLES ME!

          "Your riddle is hard to read."
          --Tennyson.

          '"Are you content?
          I am what you behold.
          And that's a mystery."
          The Two Foscari.

THE post next morning brought a letter from Mr. Vernor to say that, as he found the business
on which he was engaged must necessitate his crossing to Boulogne, he feared there was no chance
of his being able to return under a week, but that, if it should be inconvenient for Mrs. Coleman
to keep Miss Saville so long at Elm Lodge, he should wish her to go back to Barstone, where,
if she was in any difficulty, she could easily apply to her late hostess for advice and assistance.
On being brought clearly (though I fear the word is scarcely applicable to the good lady's
state of mind at any time) to understand the position of affairs, Mrs. Coleman would by no
means hear of Miss Saville's departure; but, on the contrary, made her promise to prolong her
stay till her guardian should return, which, as Freddy observed, involved the remarkable coincidence
that if Mr. Vernor should be drowned in crossing the British Channel, she (his mother) would
have put her foot in it. The same post brought Freddy a summons from his father, desiring him,
the moment he returned from Bury with the papers, to proceed to town immediately. There was
nothing left for him, therefore, but to deposit himself upon the roof of the next coach, blue
bag in hand, which he accordingly did, after having spent the intervening time in reviling
~265~~ all lawyers, clients, deeds, settlements, in fact, every individual thing connected
with the profession, excepting fees.

"Clara and I are going for a long walk, Mr. Fairlegh, and we shall be glad of your escort,
if you have no objection to accompany us, and it is not too far for you," said Mrs. Coleman
(who evidently considered me in the last stage of a decline), trotting into the breakfast-room
where I was lounging, book in hand, over the fire, wondering what possible pretext I could
invent for joining the ladies.

"I shall be only too happy," answered I, "and I think I can contrive to walk as far as you
can, Mrs. Coleman." "Oh! I don't know that," was the reply, "I am a capital walker, I assure
you. I remember a young man, quite as young as you, and a good deal stouter, who could not
walk nearly as far as I can; to be sure," she added as she left the room, "he had a wooden
leg, poor fellow!"

I soon received a summons to start with the ladies, whom I found awaiting my arrival on the
terrace walk at the back of the house, comfortably wrapped up in shawls and furs, for, although
a bright sun was shining, the day was cold and frosty.

"You must allow me to carry that for you," said I, laying violent hands on a large basket,
between which and a muff Mrs. Coleman was in vain attempting to effect an amicable arrangement.

"Oh, dear! I'm sure you'll never be able to carry it--it's so dreadfully heavy," was the reply.

"Nous verrons," answered I, swinging it on my forefinger, in order to demonstrate its lightness.

"Take care--you mustn't do so!" exclaimed Mrs. Coleman in a tone of extreme alarm; "you'll
upset all my beautiful senna tea, and it will get amongst the slices of Christmas plum-pudding,
and the flannel that I'm going to take for poor Mrs. Muddles's children to eat; do you know
Mrs. Muddles, Clara, my dear?"

Miss Saville replied in the negative, and Mrs. Coleman continued:--

"Ah! poor thing! she's a very hard-working, respectable, excellent young woman; she has been
married three years, and has got six children--no! let me see--it's six years, and three children--that's
it--though I can never remember whether it's most pigs or children she has--four pigs, did
I say?--but it doesn't much signify, for the youngest is a boy and will soon be fat enough
to kill--the pig I mean, and they're all very dirty, and have never ~266~~ been taught to read,
because she takes in washing, and has put a great deal too much starch in my night-cap this
week--only her husband drinks--so I mustn't say much about it, poor thing, for we all have
our failings, you know."

With suchlike rambling discourse did worthy Mrs. Coleman beguile the way, until at length,
after a walk of some two miles and a half, we arrived at the cottage of that much-enduring
laundress, the highly respectable Mrs. Muddles, where, in due form, we were introduced to the
mixed race of children and pigs, between which heads clearer than that of Mrs. Coleman might
have been at a loss to distinguish; for if the pigs did not exactly resemble children, the
children most assuredly looked like pigs. Here we seemed likely to remain for some time, as
there was much business to be transacted by the two matrons. First, Mrs. Coleman's basket was
unpacked, during which process that lady delivered a long harangue, setting forth the rival
merits of plum-pudding and black draught, and ingeniously establishing a connexion between
them, which has rendered the former nearly as distasteful to me as the latter ever since. Thence
glancing slightly at the overstarched night-cap, and delicately referring to the anti-teetotal
propensities of the laundress's sposo, she contrived so thoroughly to confuse and interlace
the various topics of her discourse, as to render it an open question, whether the male Muddles
had not got tipsy on black draught, in consequence of the plum-pudding having overstarched
the night-cap; moreover, she distinctly called the latter article "poor fellow!" twice. In
reply to this, Mrs. Muddles, the skin of whose hands was crimped up into patterns like sea-weed,
from the amphibious nature of her employment, and whose general appearance was, from the same
cause, moist and spongy, expressed much gratitude for the contents of the basket, made a pathetic
apology to the night-cap, tried to ignore the imbibing propensity of her better half; but,
when pressed home upon the point, declared that when he was not engaged in the Circe-like operation
of "making a beast of hisself," he was one of the most virtuousest of men; and finally wound
up by a minute medical detail of Johnny's chilblain, accompanied by a slight retrospective
sketch of Mary Anne's departed hooping-cough. How much longer the conversation might have continued,
it is impossible to say, for it was evident that neither of the speakers had by any means exhausted
her budget, had not Johnny, the unfortunate proprietor of the chilblain above alluded to, seen
fit to precipitate himself, head-foremost, into a washing-tub ~267~~ of nearly scalding water,
whence his mamma, with great presence of mind and much professional dexterity, extricated him,
wrung him out, and set him on the mangle to dry, where he remained sobbing, from a vague sense
of humid misery, till a more convenient season.

This little incident reminding Mrs. Coleman that the boiled beef, preparing for our luncheon
and the servants' dinner, would inevitably be overdone, induced her to take a hurried farewell
of Mrs. Muddles, though she paused at the threshold to offer a parting suggestion as to the
advisability, moral and physical, of dividing the wretched Johnny's share of plum-pudding between
his brothers and sisters, and administering a double portion of black draught by way of compensation,
an arrangement which elicited from that much-wronged child a howl of mingled horror and defiance.

We had proceeded about a mile on our return, when Mrs. Coleman, who was a step or two in advance,
trod on a slide some boys had made, and would have fallen had I not thrown my arm round her
just in time to prevent it.

"My dear madam," exclaimed I, "you were as nearly as possible down; I hope you have not hurt
yourself."

"No, my dear--I mean--Mr. Fairlegh; no! I hope I have not, except my ankle. I gave that a twist
somehow, and it hurts me dreadfully; but I daresay I shall be able to go on in a minute."

The good lady's hopes, however, were not destined in this instance to be fulfilled, for, on
attempting to proceed, the pain increased to such an extent, that she was forced, after limping
a few steps, to seat herself on a stone by the wayside, and it became evident that she must
have sprained her ankle severely, and would be utterly unable to walk home. In this dilemma
it was not easy to discover what was the best thing to do--no vehicle could be procured nearer
than Hillingford, from which place we were at least two miles distant, and I by no means approved
of leaving my companions in their present helpless state during the space of time which must
necessarily elapse ere I could go and return. Mrs. Coleman, who, although suffering from considerable
pain, bore it with the greatest equanimity and good nature, seeming to think much more of the
inconvenience she was likely to occasion us, than of her own discomforts, had just hit upon
some brilliant but totally impracticable project, when our ears were gladdened by the sound
of wheels, and in another moment a little pony-chaise, drawn by a ~268~~ fat, comfortable-looking
pony, came in sight, proceeding in the direction of Hillingford. As soon as the driver, a stout,
rosy-faced gentleman, who proved to be the family apothecary, perceived our party, he pulled
up, and, when he became aware of what had occurred, put an end to our difficulties by offering
Mrs. Coleman the unoccupied seat in his chaise.

"Sorry I can't accommodate you also, Miss Saville," he continued, raising his hat; "but you
see it's rather close packing as it is. If I were but a little more like the medical practitioner
who administered a sleeping draught to Master Romeo now, we might contrive to carry three."

"I really prefer walking such a cold day as this, thank you, Mr. Pillaway," answered Miss Saville.

"Mind you take proper care of poor Clara, Mr. Fairlegh," said Mrs. Coleman, "and don't let
her sprain her ankle, or do anything foolish, and don't you stay out too long yourself and
catch cold, or I don't know what Mrs. Fairlegh will say, and your pretty sister, too--what
a fat pony, Mr. Pillaway; you don't give him much physic, I should think--good-bye, my dears,
good-bye--remember the boiled beef."

As she spoke, the fat pony, admonished by the whip, described a circle with his tail, frisked
with the agility of a playful elephant, and then set off at a better pace than from his adipose
appearance I had deemed him capable of doing.

"With all her oddity, what an unselfish, kind-hearted, excellent little person Mrs. Coleman
is!" observed I, as the pony-chaise disappeared at an angle of the road.

"Oh! I think her charming," replied my companion warmly, "she is so very good-natured."

"She is something beyond that," returned I; "mere good-nature is a quality I rate very low:
a person may be good-natured, yet thoroughly selfish, for nine times out of ten it is easier
and more agreeable to say 'yes' than 'no'; but there is such an entire forgetfulness of self,
apparent in all Mrs. Coleman's attempts to make those around her happy and comfortable, that,
despite her eccentricities, I am beginning to conceive quite a respect for the little woman."

"You are a close observer of character it seems, Mr. Fairlegh," remarked my companion.

"I scarcely see how any thinking person can avoid being so," returned I; "there is no study
that appears to me to possess a more deep and varied interest."

"You make mistakes, though, sometimes," replied ~269~~ Miss Saville, glancing quickly at me
with her beautiful eyes.

"You refer to my hasty judgment of last night," said I, colouring slightly. "The mournful words
of your song led me to conclude that, in one instance, high spirits might not be a sure indication
of a light heart; and yet I would fain hope," added I in a half-questioning tone, "that you
merely sought to inculcate a general principle."

"Is not that a very unusual species of heath to find growing in this country?" was the rejoinder.

"Really, I am no botanist," returned I, rather crossly, for I felt that I had received a rebuff,
and was not at all sure that I might not have deserved it.

"Nay, but I will have you attend; you did not even look towards the place where it is growing,"
replied Miss Saville, with a half-imperious, half-imploring glance, which it was impossible
to resist.

"Is that the plant you mean?" asked I, pointing to a tuft of heath on the top of a steep bank
by the roadside.

On receiving a reply in the affirmative, I continued: "Then I will render you all the assistance
in my power, by enabling you to judge for yourself ". So saying, I scrambled up the bank at
the imminent risk of my neck; and after bursting the button-holes of my straps, and tearing
my coat in two places with a bramble, I succeeded in gathering the heath.

Elated by my success, and feeling every nerve braced and invigorated by the frosty air, I bounded
down the slope with such velocity, that, on reaching the bottom, I was unable to check my speed,
and only avoided running against Miss Saville, by nearly throwing myself down backwards.

"I beg your pardon!" exclaimed I; "I hope I have not alarmed you by my abominable awkwardness;
but really the bank was so steep, that it was impossible to stop sooner."

"Nay, it is I who ought to apologise for having led you to undertake such a dangerous expedition,"
replied she, taking the heath which I had gathered, with a smile which quite repaid me for
my exertions.

"I do not know what could have possessed me to run down the bank in that insane manner," returned
I; "I suppose it is this fine frosty morning which makes one feel so light and happy."

"Happy!" repeated my companion incredulously, and in a half-absent manner, as though she were
rather thinking aloud than addressing me.

~270~~ "Yes," replied I, surprised; "why should I not feel so?"

"Is any one happy?" was the rejoinder.

"Very many people, I hope," said I; "you do not doubt it, surely."

"I well might," she answered with a sigh.

"On such a beautiful day as this, with the bright clear sky above us, and the hoar-frost sparkling
like diamonds in the glorious sunshine, how can one avoid feeling happy?" asked I.

"It is very beautiful," she replied, after gazing around for a moment; "and yet can you not
imagine a state of mind in which this fair scene, with all its varied charms, may impress one
with a feeling of bitterness rather than of pleasure, by the contrast it affords to the darkness
and weariness of soul within? Place some famine-stricken wretch beneath the roof of a gilded
palace, think you the sight of its magnificence would give him any sensation of pleasure? Would
it not rather, by increasing the sense of his own misery, add to his agony of spirit?"

"I can conceive such a case possible," replied I; "but you would make us out to be all famine-stricken
wretches at this rate: you cannot surely imagine that every one is unhappy?"

"There are, no doubt, different degrees of unhappiness," returned Miss Saville; "yet I can
hardly conceive any position in life so free from cares, as to be pronounced positively happy;
but I know my ideas on this subject are peculiar, and I am by no means desirous of making a
convert of you, Mr. Fairlegh; the world will do that soon enough, I fear," she added with a sigh.

"I cannot believe it," replied I warmly. "True, at times we must all feel sorrow; it is one
of the conditions of our mortal lot, and we must bear it with what resignation we may, knowing
that, if we but make a fitting use of it, it is certain to work for our highest good; but if
you would have me look upon this world as a vale of tears, forgetting all its glorious opportunities
for raising our fallen nature to something so bright and noble, as to be even here but little
lower than the angels, you must pardon me if I never can agree with you."

There was a moment's pause, when my companion resumed.

"You talk of opportunities of doing good, as being likely to increase our stock of happiness;
and, no doubt, you are right; but imagine a situation, in which you are unable to take advantage
of these opportunities when ~271~~ they arise--in which you are not a free agent, your will
fettered and controlled on every point, so that you are alike powerless to perform the good
that you desire, and to avoid the evil you both hate and fear--could you be happy in such a
situation, think you?"

"You describe a case which is, or ought to be, impossible," replied I; "when I say ought to
be, I mean that in these days, I hope and believe, it is impossible for any one to be forced
to do wrong, unless, from a natural weakness and facility of disposition, and from a want of
moral courage, their resistance is so feeble, that those who seek to compel them to evil are
induced to redouble their efforts, when a little firmness and decision clearly shown, and steadily
adhered to, would have produced a very different result."

"Oh that I could think so!" exclaimed Miss Saville ardently: she paused for a minute, as if
in thought, and then resumed in a low mournful voice, "But you do not know--you cannot tell;
besides, it is useless to struggle against destiny: there are people fated from childhood to
grief and misfortune--alone in this cold world"--she paused, then continued abruptly, "you
have a sister?"

"Yes," replied I; "I have as good a little sister as ever man was fortunate enough to possess--how
glad I should be to introduce her to you!"

"And you love each other?"

"Indeed we do, truly and sincerely."

"And you are a man, one of the lords of the creation," she continued, with a slight degree
of sarcasm in her tone. "Well, Mr. Fairlegh, I can believe that you may be happy sometimes."

"And what ami to conjecture about you?" inquired I, fixing my eyes upon her expressive features.

"What you please," returned she, turning away with a very becoming blush--"or rather," she
added, "do not waste your time in forming any conjectures whatever on such an uninteresting
subject."

"I am more easily interested than you imagine," replied I, with a smile; "besides, you know
I am fond of studying character."

"The riddle is not worth reading," answered Miss Saville.
          Byron.

          "My soul hath felt a secret weight,
          A warning of approaching fate."
          Rokeby.

          "Oh! lady, weep no more; lest I give cause
          To be suspected of more tenderness
          Than doth become a man."
          Shakspeare.

THE next few days passed like a happy dream. Our little party remained the same, no tidings
being heard of any of the absentees, save a note from Freddy, saying how much he was annoyed
at being detained in town, and begging me to await his return at Elm Lodge, or he would never
forgive me. Mrs. Coleman's sprain, though not very severe, was yet sufficient to confine her
to her own room till after breakfast, and to a sofa in the boudoir during the rest of the day;
and, as a necessary consequence, Miss Saville and I were chiefly dependent on each other for
society and amusement. We walked together, read Italian (Petrarch too, of all the authors we
could have chosen, to beguile us with his picturesque and glowing love conceits), played chess,
and, in short, tried in turn the usual expedients for killing time in a country-house, and
found them all very "pretty pastimes" indeed. As the young lady's shyness wore off, and by
degrees she allowed the various excellent qualities of her head and heart to appear, I recalled
Lucy Markham's assertion, that "she was as good and amiable as she was pretty," and acknowledged
that she had only done her justice. Still, although her manner was generally lively and animated,
and at times even gay, I could perceive that her mind was not at ease; and whenever she was
silent, and her features were in repose, they were marked by an expression of hopeless dejection
which it grieved me to behold. If at such moments she perceived any one was observing her,
she would rouse herself with a sudden start, and join in the conversation with a degree of
wild vehemence and strange, unnatural gaiety, which to me had in it something shocking. Latterly,
however, as we became better acquainted, and felt more at ease in ~273~~ each other's society,
these wild bursts of spirits grew less frequent, or altogether disappeared, and she would meet
my glance with a calm melancholy smile, which seemed to say, "I am not afraid to trust you
with the knowledge that I am unhappy--you will not betray me". Yet, though she seemed to find
pleasure in discussing subjects which afforded opportunity for expressing the morbid and desponding
views she held of life, she never allowed the conversation to take a personal turn, always
skilfully avoiding the possibility of her words being applied to her own case: any attempt
to do so invariably rendering her silent, or eliciting from her some gay piquant remark, which
served her purpose still better.

And how were my feelings getting on all this time? Was I falling in love with this wayward,
incomprehensible, but deeply interesting girl, into whose constant society circumstances had,
as it were, forced me? Reader, this was a question which I most carefully abstained from asking
myself. I knew that I was exceedingly happy; and, as I wished to continue so, I steadily forbore
to analyse the ingredients of this happiness too closely, perhaps from a secret consciousness,
that, were I to do so, I might discover certain awkward truths, which would prove it to be
my duty to tear myself away from the scene of fascination ere it was too late. So I told myself
that I was bound by my promise to Coleman to remain at Elm Lodge till my mother and sister
should return home, or, at all events, till he himself came back: this being the case, I was
compelled by all the rules of good-breeding to be civil and attentive to Miss Saville (yes,
civil and attentive--I repeated the words over two or three times; they were nice, quiet, cool
sort of words, and suited the view I was anxious to take of the case particularly well). Besides,
I might be of some use to her, poor girl, by combating her strange, melancholy, half-fatalist
opinions; at all events, it was my duty to try, decidedly my duty (I said that also several
times); and, as to my feeling such a deep interest about her, and thinking of her continually,
why there was nothing else to think about at Elm Lodge--so that was easily accounted for. All
this, and a good deal more of the same nature, did I tell myself; and, if I did not implicitly
believe it, I was much too polite to think of giving myself the lie, and so I continued walking,
talking, reading Petrarch, and playing chess with Miss Saville all day, and dreaming of her
all night, and being very happy indeed.

~274~~ Oh! it's a dangerous game, by the way, that game of chess, with its gallant young knights,
clever fellows, up to all sorts of deep moves, who are perpetually laying siege to queens,
keeping them in check, threatening them with the bishop, and, with his assistance, mating at
last; and much too nearly does it resemble the game of life to be played safely with a pair
of bright eyes talking to you from the other side of the board, and two coral lips--mute, indeed,
but in their very silence discoursing such "sweet music" to your heart, that the silly thing,
dancing with delight, seems as if it meant to leap out of your breast; and it is not mere seeming
either--for hearts have been altogether lost in this way before now. Oh! it's a dangerous game,
that game of chess. But to return to my tale.

About a week after the expedition to Mrs. Muddles's had taken place, Freddy and his father
returned, just in time for dinner. As I was dressing for that meal Coleman came into my room,
anxious to learn "how the young lady had conducted herself" during his absence; whether I had
taken any unfair advantage, or acted honourably, and with a due regard to his interest, with
sundry other jocose queries, all of which appeared to me exceedingly impertinent, and particularly
disagreeable, and inspired me with a strong inclination to take him by the shoulders and march
him out of the room; instead, however, of doing so, I endeavoured to look amiable, and answer
his inquiries in the same light tone in which they were made, and I so far succeeded as to
render the amount of information he obtained exceedingly minute. The dinner passed off heavily;
Miss Saville was unusually silent, and all Freddy's sallies failed to draw her out. Mr. Coleman
was very pompous, and so distressingly polite, that everything like sociability was out of
the question. When the ladies left us, matters did not improve; Freddy, finding the atmosphere
ungenial to jokes, devoted himself to cracking walnuts by original methods which invariably
failed, and attempting to torture into impossible shapes oranges which, when finished, were
much too sour for any one to eat; while his father, after having solemnly, and at separate
intervals, begged me to partake of every article of the dessert twice over, commenced an harangue,
in which he set forth the extreme caution and reserve he considered it right and advisable
for young gentlemen to exercise in their intercourse with young ladies, towards whom he declared
they should maintain a staid deportment of dignified ~275~~ courtesy, tempered by distant but
respectful attentions. This, repeated with variations, lasted us till the tea was announced,
and we returned to the drawing-room. Here Freddy made a desperate and final struggle to remove
the wet blanket which appeared to have extinguished the life and spirit of the party, but in
vain; it had evidently set in for a dull evening, and the clouds were not to be dispelled by
any efforts of his;--nothing, therefore, remained for him but to tease the cat, and worry and
confuse his mother, to which occupations he applied himself with a degree of diligence worthy
a better object. During a fearful commotion consequent upon the discovery of the cat's nose
in the cream-jug, into the commission of which delinquency Freddy had contrived to inveigle
that amiable quadruped by a series of treacherous caresses, I could not help remarking to Miss
Saville (next to whom I happened to be seated) the contrast between this evening and those
which we had lately spent together.

"Ah! yes," she replied, in a half-absent manner, "I knew they were too happy to last;" then
seeing, from the flush of joy which I felt rise to my brow, though I would have given worlds
to repress it, that I had put a wrong construction on her words, or, as my heart would fain
have me believe, that she had unconsciously admitted more than she intended, she added hastily,
"What I mean to say is, that the perfect freedom from restraint, and the entire liberty to--to
follow one's own pursuits, are pleasures to which I am so little accustomed, that I have enjoyed
them more than I was perhaps aware of while they lasted".

"You are out of spirits this evening. I hope nothing has occurred to annoy you?" inquired I.

"Do you believe in presentiments?" was the rejoinder.

"I cannot say I do," returned I; "I take them to be little else than the creations of our own
morbid fancies, and attribute them in great measure to physical causes."

"But why do they come true, then?" she inquired. "I must answer your question by another,"
I replied, "and ask whether, except now and then by accident, they do come true?"

"I think so," returned Miss Saville, "at least I can only judge as one usually does, more or
less, in every case, by one's own experience,--my presentiments always appear to come true;
would it were not so! for they are generally of a gloomy nature."

"Even yet," replied I, "I doubt whether you do not ~276~~ unconsciously deceive yourself, and
I think I can tell you the reason; you remember the times when your presentiments have come
to pass, because you considered such coincidences remarkable, and they made a strong impression
on your mind, while you forget the innumerable gloomy forebodings which have never been fulfilled,
the accomplishment being the thing which fixes itself on your memory--is not this the case?"

"It may be so," she answered, "and yet I know not--even now there is a weight here," and she
pressed her hand to her brow as she spoke, "a vague, dull feeling of dread, a sensation of
coming evil, which tells me some misfortune is at hand, some crisis of my fate approaching.
I daresay you consider all this very silly and romantic, Mr. Fairlegh; but if you knew how
everything I have most feared, most sought to avoid, has invariably been forced upon me, you
would make allowance for me--you would pity me."

What answer I should have made to this appeal, had not Fate interposed in the person of old
Mr. Coleman (who seated himself on the other side of Miss Saville, and began talking about
the state of the roads), it is impossible to say. As it was my only reply was by a glance,
which, if it failed to convince her that I pitied her with a depth and intensity which approached
alarmingly near the kindred emotion, love, must have been singularly inexpressive. And the
evening came to an end, as all evenings, however long, are sure to do at last; and in due course
I went to bed, but not to sleep, for Clara Saville and her forebodings ran riot in my brain,
and effectually banished the "soft restorer," till such time as that early egotist the cock
began singing his own praises to his numerous wives, when I fell into a doze, with a strong
idea that I had got a presentiment myself, though of what nature, or when the event (if event
it was) was likely to "come off," I had not the most distant notion.

The post-bag arrived while we were at breakfast the next morning; and it so happened that I
was the only one of the party for whom it did not contain a letter. Having nothing, therefore,
to occupy my attention, and being seated exactly opposite Clara Saville, I could scarcely fail
to observe the effect produced by one which Mr. Coleman had handed to her. When her eye first
fell on the writing she gave a slight start, and a flush (I could not decide whether of pleasure
or anger) mounted to her brow. As she perused the contents she grew deadly pale, and I feared
she was about to faint: recovering herself, ~277~~ however, by a strong effort, she read steadily
to the end, quietly refolded the letter, and, placing it in a pocket in her dress, apparently
resumed her breakfast--I say apparently, for I noticed that, although she busied herself with
what was on her plate, it remained untasted, and she took the earliest opportunity, as soon
as the meal was concluded, of leaving the room.

"I'm afraid I must ask you to excuse me till after lunch, old fellow," said Coleman, "you see
we're so dreadfully busy just now with this confounded suit I went down to Bury about--'Bowler
versus Stumps'; but if you can amuse yourself till two o'clock we'll go and have a jolly good
walk to shake up an appetite for dinner."

"The very thing," replied I; "I have a letter to Harry Oaklands which has been on the stocks
for the last four days, and which I particularly wish to finish, and then I'm your man, for
a ten-mile trot if you like it."

"So be it, then," said Freddy, leaving the room as he spoke.

As soon as he was gone, instead of fetching my half-written epistle I flung myself into an
arm-chair, and devoted myself to the profitable employment of conjecturing the possible cause
of Clara Saville's strange agitation on receiving that letter. Who could it be from?--perhaps
her guardian;--but if so, why should she have given a start of surprise?--nothing could have
been more natural or probable than that he should write and say when she might expect him home--she
could not have felt surprise at the sight of his handwriting--but if not from him, from whom
could it come? She had told me that she had no near relations, no intimate friend. A lover
perchance--well, and if it were so, what was that to me?--nothing--oh yes! decidedly nothing--a
favoured lover of course, else why the emotion?--was this also nothing?--yes, I said it was,
and I tried to think so too: yet, viewing the matter so philosophically, it was rather inconsistent
to spring from my seat as if an adder had stung me, and begin striding up and down the room
as though I were walking for a wager. In the course of my rapid promenade, my coat-tail brushed
against and nearly knocked down an inkstand, to which incident I was indebted for the recollection
of my unfinished letter to Oaklands, and, my own thoughts being at that moment no over-pleasant
companions, I was glad of any excuse to get rid of them. On looking about for my writing-case,
however, I remembered that, when last I made use of it, we were sitting in the boudoir, and
that there it had ~278~~ probably remained ever since; accordingly, without further waste of
time, I ran upstairs to look for it.

As good Mrs. Coleman (although she most indignantly repelled the accusation) was sometimes
accustomed to indulge her propensity for napping even in a morning, I opened the door of the
boudoir, and closed it again after me as noiselessly as possible. My precautions, however,
did not seem to have been necessary, for at first sight the room appeared untenanted; but as
I turned to look for my writing-case a stifled sob met my ear, and a closer inspection enabled
me to perceive the form of Clara Saville, with her face buried in the cushions, half-sitting,
half-reclining on the sofa, while so silently had I effected my entrance that as yet she was
not aware of my approach. My first impulse was to withdraw and leave her undisturbed, but unluckily
a slight noise which I made in endeavouring to do so attracted her attention, and she started
up in alarm, regarding me with a wild, half-frightened gaze, as if she scarcely recognised me.

"I beg your pardon," I began hastily, "I am afraid I have disturbed you--I came to fetch--that
is to look for--my--" and here I stopped short, for to my surprise and consternation Miss Saville,
after making a strong but ineffectual effort to regain her composure, sank back upon the sofa,
and, covering her face with her hands, burst into a violent flood of tears. I can scarcely
conceive a situation more painful, or in which it would be more difficult to know how to act,
than the one in which I now found myself. The sight of a woman's tears must always produce
a powerful effect upon a man of any feeling, leading him to wish to comfort and assist her
to the utmost of his ability; but, if the fair weeper be one in whose welfare you take the
deepest interest, and yet with whom you are not on terms of sufficient intimacy to entitle
you to offer the consolation your heart would dictate, the position becomes doubly embarrassing.
For my part, so overcome was I by a perfect chaos of emotions, that I remained for some moments
like one thunder-stricken, while she continued to sob as though her heart were breaking. At
length I could stand it no longer, and scarcely knowing what I was going to say or do, I placed
myself on the sofa beside her, and taking one of her hands, which now hung listlessly down,
in my own, I exclaimed:--

"Miss Saville--Clara--dear Clara! I cannot bear to see you so unhappy, it makes me miserable
to look at you--tell me, what can I do to help you--to comfort you--something must be possible--you
have no brother--let ~279~~ me be one to you--tell me why you are so wretched--and oh! do not
cry so bitterly!"

When I first addressed her she started slightly, and attempted to withdraw her hand, but as
I proceeded she allowed it to remain quietly in mine, and though she still continued to weep,
her tears fell more softly, and she no longer sobbed in such a distressing manner. Glad to
find that I had in some measure succeeded in calming her, I renewed my attempts at consolation,
and again implored her to tell me the cause of her unhappiness. Still for some moments she
was unable to speak, but at length making an effort to recover herself she withdrew her hand,
and stroking back her glossy hair, which had fallen over her forehead, said:--

"This is very weak--very foolish. I do not often give way in this manner, but it came upon
me so suddenly--so unexpectedly; and now, Mr. Fairlegh, pray leave me; I shall ever feel grateful
to you for your sympathy, for your offers of assistance, and for all the trouble you have kindly
taken about such a strange, wayward girl, as I am sure you must consider me," she added, with
a faint smile.

"So you will not allow me to be of use to you," returned I sorrowfully, "you do not think me
worthy of your confidence."

"Indeed it is not so," she replied earnestly; "there is no one of whose judgment I think more
highly; no one of whose assistance I would more gladly avail myself; on whose honour I would
more willingly rely; but it is utterly impossible to help me. Indeed," she added, seeing me
still look incredulous, "I am telling you what I believe to be the exact and simple truth."

"Will you promise me that, if at any time you should find that I could be of use to you, you
will apply to me as you would to a brother, trusting me sufficiently to believe that I shall
not act hastily, or in any way which could in the slightest degree compromise or annoy you?
Will you promise me this?"

"I will," she replied, raising her eyes to my face for an instant with that sweet, trustful
expression which I had before noticed, "though I suppose such prudent people as Mr. Coleman,"
she added with a slight smile, "would consider me to blame for so doing; and were I like other
girls--had I a mother's affection to watch over me--a father's care to shield me, they might
be right; but situated as I am, having none to care for me--nothing to rely on save my own
weak heart and unassisted judgment--while those who should guide and protect me ~280~~ appear
only too ready to avail themselves of my helplessness and inexperience--I cannot afford to
lose so true a friend, or believe it to be my duty to reject your disinterested kindness."

A pause ensued, during which I arrived at two conclusions--first, that my kindness was not
altogether so disinterested as she imagined; and secondly, that if I sat where I was much longer,
and she continued to talk about there being nobody who cared for her, I should inevitably feel
myself called upon to undeceive her, and, as a necessary consequence, implore her to accept
my heart and share my patrimony--the latter, deducting my sister's allowance and my mother's
jointure, amounting to the imposing sum of £90 14s. 6d. per annum, which, although sufficient
to furnish a bachelor with bread and cheese and broad-cloth, was not exactly calculated to
afford an income for "persons about to marry". Accordingly, putting a strong force upon my
inclinations, and by a desperate effort screwing my virtue to the sticking point, I made a
pretty speech, clenching, and thanking her for her promise of applying to me to help her out
of the first hopelessly inextricable dilemma in which she might find herself involved, and
rose with the full intention of leaving the room.

CHAPTER XXXVI -- THE RIDDLE SOLVED

          "Think'st thou there's virtue in constrained vows,
          Half utter'd, soulless, falter'd forth in fear?
          And if there is, then truth and grace are nought."
          Sheridan Knowles.

          "For The contract you pretend with that base wretch,
          It is no contract--none."
          Shakspeare.
          Hood.

UPON what trifles do the most important events of our lives turn! Had I quitted the room according
to my intention, I should not have had an opportunity of seeing Miss Saville alone again (as
she returned to Barstone ~281~~ that afternoon), in which case she would probably have forgotten,
or felt afraid to avail herself of my promised assistance, all communication between us would
have ceased, and the deep interest I felt in her, having nothing wherewith to sustain itself,
would, as years passed by, have died a natural death.

Good resolutions are, however, proverbially fragile, and, in nine cases out of ten, appear
made, like children's toys, only to be broken. Certain it is, that in the present instance
mine were rendered of none avail, and, for any good effect that they produced, might as well
never have been formed.

As I got up to leave the room Miss Saville rose likewise, and in doing so accidentally dropped
a, or rather the, letter, which I picked up, and was about to return to her, when suddenly
my eye fell upon the direction, and I started as I recognised the writing--a second glance
served to convince me that I had not been mistaken, for the hand was a very peculiar one; and,
turning to my astonished companion, I exclaimed, "Clara, as you would avoid a life of misery,
tell me by what right this man dares to address you!"

"What! do you know him, then?" she inquired anxiously.

"If he be the man I mean," was my answer, "I know him but too well, and he is the only human
being I both dislike and despise. Was not that letter written by Richard Cumberland?"

"Yes, that is his hateful name," she replied, shuddering while she spoke, as at the aspect
of some loathsome thing; then, suddenly changing her tone to one of the most passionate entreaty,
she clasped her hands, and advancing a step towards me, exclaimed:--

"Oh! Mr. Fairlegh, only save me from him, and I will bless you, will pray for you!" and completely
overcome by her emotion, she sank backwards, and would have fallen had not I prevented it.

There is a peculiar state of feeling which a man sometimes experiences when he has bravely
resisted some hydra-headed temptation to do anything "pleasant but wrong," yet which circumstances
appear determined to force upon him: he struggles against it boldly at first; but, as each
victory serves only to lessen his own strength, while that of the enemy continues unimpaired,
he begins to tell himself that it is useless to contend longer--that the monster is too strong
for him, and he yields at last, from a mixed feeling of fatalism and irritation--a sort of
~282~~ "have-it-your-own-way-then" frame of mind, which seeks to relieve itself from all responsibility
by throwing the burden on things in general--the weakness of human nature--the force of circumstances--or
any other indefinite and conventional scapegoat, which may serve his purpose of self-exculpation.

In much such a condition did I now find myself; I felt that I was regularly conquered--completely
taken by storm--and that nothing was left for me but to yield to my destiny with the best grace
I could. I therefore seated myself by Miss Saville on the sofa, and whispered, "You must promise
me one thing more, Clara, dearest--say that you will love me--give me but that right to watch
over you--to protect you, and believe me neither Cumberland, nor any other villain, shall dare
for the future to molest you".

As she made no answer, but remained with her eyes fixed on the ground, while the tears stole
slowly down her cheeks, I continued--"You own that you are unhappy--that you have none to love
you--none on whom you can rely;--do not then reject the tender, the devoted affection of one
who would live but to protect you from the slightest breath of sorrow--would gladly die, if,
by so doing, he could secure your happiness".

"Oh! hush, hush!" she replied, starting, as if for the first time aware of the tenor of my
words; "you know not what you ask; or even you, kind, noble, generous as you are, would not
seek to link your fate with one so utterly wretched, so marked out for misfortune as myself.
Stay," she continued, seeing that I was about to speak, "hear me out. Richard Cumberland, the
man whom you despise, and whom I hate only less than I fear, that man have I promised to marry,
and, ere this, he is on his road hither to claim the fulfilment of the engagement."

"Promised to marry Cumberland!" repeated I mechanically, "a low, dissipated swindler--a common
cheat, for I can call him nothing better; oh, it's impossible!--why, Mr. Vernor, your guardian,
would never permit it."

"My guardian!" she replied, in a tone of the most cutting irony: "were it not for him this
engagement would never have been formed; were it not for him I should even now hope to find
some means of prevailing upon this man to relinquish it, and set me free. Richard Cumberland
is Mr. Vernor's nephew, and the dearest wish of his heart is to see us united."

"He never shall see it while I live to prevent it!" ~283~~ replied I, springing to my feet,
and pacing the room with angry strides.

"Oh, it was all plain to me now! when I had fancied her guardian's features were not unfamiliar
to me, it was his likeness to Cumberland which had deceived me; his rudeness on the night of
the ball; the strange dislike he appeared to feel towards me;--all was now accounted for. His
opinion of me, formed from Cumberland's report, was not likely to be a very favourable one;
and this precious uncle and nephew were linked in a scheme to destroy the happiness of the
sweetest girl living, the brightness of whose young spirit was already darkened by the shade
of their vile machinations: but they had not as yet succeeded; and if the most strenuous and
unceasing exertions on my part could serve to prevent it, I inwardly vowed they never should.
Let Master Richard Cumberland look to himself; I had foiled him once, and it would go hard
with me but I would do so again."

Having half thought, half uttered the foregoing resolutions, I once more turned towards Miss
Saville, who sat watching me with looks of interest and surprise, and said: "This is a most
strange and unexpected affair; but remember, dear Clara, you have appealed to me to save you
from Cumberland, and, to enable me to do so, you must tell me exactly how matters stand between
you, and, above all, how and why you were induced to enter into this engagement, for I hope--I
think--I am right in supposing--that affection for him had nothing to do with it".

"Affection!" she replied, in a tone of voice which, if any doubts still lingered in my mind,
effectually dispelled them; "have I not already said that I hate this man as, I fear, it is
sinful to hate any human being? I disliked and dreaded him when we were boy and girl together,
and these feelings have gone on increasing year by year, till my aversion to him has become
one of the most deeply-rooted instincts of my nature."

"And yet you allowed yourself to be engaged to him?" inquired I. "How could this have been
brought about?"

"You may well ask," was the reply; "it was folly; it was weakness; but I was very young--a
mere child in fact; and they made me believe that it was my duty; then I hoped, I felt sure
that I should die before the time arrived to fulfil the engagement; I fancied it was impossible
to be so miserable, and yet to live: but Death is very cruel--he will not come to those who
pine for him."

~284~~ "Clara," interrupted I, "I cannot bear to hear you say such things; it is not right
to give way to these feelings of despair."

"Is it wrong for the unhappy to wish to die?" she asked, with a calm child-like simplicity
which was most touching. "I suppose it is," she continued, "for I have prayed for death so
often, that God would have granted my prayer if it had been a right one. When I closed my eyes
last night, oh! how I hoped--how I longed--never to open them again in this miserable world--for
I felt that evil was at hand: you laughed at my presentiment: it has come true, you see."

"Believe me, you do wrong in giving way to these despairing thoughts--in encouraging these
morbid fancies," returned I. "But time presses; will you not tell me the particulars of this
unhappy engagement, that I may see how far you stand committed to this scoundrel Cumberland,
and decide what is best to be done for the future?"

"It is a long story," she replied; "but I will tell it you as shortly as I can."

She then proceeded to inform me, that her mother having died when she was an infant, she had
become the idol of her surviving parent, who, inconsolable for the loss of his wife, lavished
all his tenderness upon his little girl. She described her childhood as the happiest part of
her life, although it must have been happiness of a tranquil nature, differing greatly from
the boisterous merriment of children in general; its chief ingredient being the strong affection
which existed between her father and herself. The only guest who ever appeared at the Priory
(which I now for the first time learned had been the property of Sir Henry Saville) was his
early friend, Mr. Vernor, who used periodically to visit them, an event to which she always
looked forward with pleasure, not so much on account of the presents and caresses he bestowed
on herself, as that his society appeared to amuse and interest her father. On one of these
occasions, when she was about nine years of age, Mr. Vernor was accompanied by a lad some years
older than herself, whom he introduced as his nephew. During his visit, the boy, who appeared
gifted with tact and cunning beyond his years, contrived so much to ingratiate himself with
Sir Henry Saville, that before he left the Priory, his host, who had himself served with distinction
in the Peninsula, expressed his readiness to send him, on attaining a fit age, to one of the
military colleges, promising to use his interest at the Horse Guards to procure a commission
for him. These ~285~~ kind intentions, however, were fated not to be carried out. An old wound
which Sir Henry had received at Vimiera broke out afresh, occasioning the rupture of a vessel
on the lungs, and in the course of a few hours Clara was left fatherless. On examining the
private papers of the deceased, it appeared that Mr. Vernor was constituted sole executor,
trustee for the property, and guardian to the young lady. In these various capacities he immediately
took up his residence at Barstone, and assumed the direction of everything. And now for the
first time did his true character appear--sullen and morose in temper, stern and inflexible
in disposition, cold and reserved in manner, implacable when offended, requiring implicit obedience
to his commands; he seemed calculated to inspire fear instead of love, aversion rather than
esteem. The only sign of feeling he ever showed was in his behaviour towards Richard Cumberland,
for whom he evidently entertained a strong affection. The idea of a military career having
been abandoned at Sir Henry Saville's death, much of his time was now spent at the Priory.
Although he was apparently fond of his little companion, and endeavoured on every occasion
to render himself agreeable to her, all his habitual cunning could not conceal from her his
vile temper, or the unscrupulous means of which he was always willing to avail himself in order
to attain his own ends. He had been away from the Priory on one occasion more than a year,
when he suddenly returned with his uncle, who had been in town on business. He appeared sullen
and uncomfortable, and she imagined that they must have had a quarrel. She was at that time
nearly fifteen, and the marked devotion which Cumberland (who during his absence had greatly
improved both in manner and appearance) now paid her, flattered and pleased her; and, partly
for this reason, partly because she had already learned to dread his outbreaks of temper, and
was unwilling to do anything which might provoke one of them, she allowed him to continue his
attentions unrepulsed. This went on for some weeks, and her old dislike was beginning to return
as she saw more of her companion, when one morning Mr. Vernor called her into his study, and
informed her that he considered she had arrived at an age when it was right that she should
become aware of the arrangements he had made for her, in accordance with the wishes of her
late father. He then showed her a letter in Sir Henry Saville's handwriting, dated only a few
weeks before his death, part of which was to the following effect; "You urge ~286~~ the fact
of your nephew's residing with you as an objection to my scheme for your living at Barstone,
and assuming the guardianship of my daughter, in the event (which, if I may trust my own sensations,
is not very far distant) of her being left an orphan. From what I have seen of the boy, as
well as on the score of our old friendship, my dear Vemor, that which you view as an objection,
I consider but an additional reason why the arrangement should take place. A marriage with
your nephew would ensure my child (who as my sole heiress will be possessed of considerable
wealth) from that worst of all fates, falling a prey to some needy fortune-hunter; and, should
such a union ever be contemplated, let me beg of you to remember, and to impress upon Clara
herself, that had I lived it would have met with my warmest approbation."

Having shown her this letter, Mr. Vemor went on to say that he had noticed with pleasure Richard's
growing attachment, and the marked encouragement she had given him, and that, although they
were too young to think of marrying for some years, and, as a general principle, he was averse
to long engagements, yet, under the peculiar circumstances in which they were placed, he had
yielded to his nephew's importunity, and determined not only to lay his offer before her, but
to allow her to accept it at once, if (as from her manner he could scarcely be mistaken in
supposing) her inclinations were in accordance with his.

Taken completely by surprise at this announcement, overpowered by the idea that by the encouragement
she had given Cumberland she had irretrievably committed herself--strongly affected by her
father's letter--having no one to advise her, what wonder that the persuasions of the nephew,
backed by the authority of the uncle, prevailed over her youth and inexperience, and that the
matter ended in her allowing herself to be formally engaged to Richard Cumberland.

Little more remained for her to tell; reckoning that he had gained his point, Cumberland became
less careful in concealing the evil of his disposition, and her dislike to him and fear of
him increased every day. At length this became evident to Mr. Vemor, but it appeared only to
render him still more determined to bring about the match; and when once, nearly a twelvemonth
before, she had implored him to allow her to break off the engagement, he had exhibited so
much violence, declaring that he possessed the power of rendering her a beggar, and even threatening
to turn her out of doors, that she had never dared to recur to the ~287~~subject. For many
months, however, she had seen nothing of her persecutor, and she had almost begun to hope that
something had rendered him averse to the match, when all her fears were again aroused by a
hint which Mr. Vemor had thrown out as he took leave of her at Mrs. Coleman's, desiring her
to exercise great circumspection in her behaviour, and to recollect that she was under a solemn
engagement, which she might before long be called upon to fulfil. The letter from Cumberland,
she added, spoke of his immediate return to claim her hand, and a few lines from Mr. Vemor
ordered her to await their arrival at Barstone.

"And now," she continued, looking up with that calm hopeless smile which was so painful to
behold, "have I not cause to be unhappy, and was I not right in telling you that no one could
be of any assistance to me, or afford me help?"

"No!" replied I warmly; "I trust and believe that much may be done--nay, everything; but you
are unequal to contend with these men alone; only allow me to hope that my affection is not
utterly distasteful to you. Would you but give me that right to interfere in your behalf!"

"This is ungenerous--unlike yourself," she interrupted. "Have you already forgotten that I
am the promised bride of Richard Cumberland? Were I free, indeed----"

"Oh! why do you pause?" exclaimed I passionately. "Clara, hear me--you deem it ungenerous in
me to urge my suit upon you at this moment--perhaps think that I would take advantage of the
difficulties which surround you, to induce you to promise me your hand as the price of my assistance.
It is true that I love you deeply, devotedly, and the happiness of my whole life is centred
in the hope of one day calling you my own; but I would use my utmost endeavours to save you
from Cumberland, even though I knew that by so doing I forfeited all chance of ever seeing
you again. Tell me, would you wish this to be so--am I to believe that you dislike me?"

As she made no reply, merely blushing deeply, and casting down her eyes, I ventured to continue:
"Clara, dearest Clara, do you then love me?"

Well, reader, I think I've told you quite as much about it as you have any business to know.
Of course she did not say she loved me--women never do upon such occasions; but I was just
as well contented as it was. Mendelssohn has composed songs without words (Lieder ohne Worte),
which tell their own tale very prettily, and there have been many eloquent speeches made on
a like silent system. ~288~~ Suffice it to add, that the next ten minutes formed such a nice,
bright, sunshiny little piece of existence as might deserve to be cut out of the book of time,
and framed, glazed, and hung up for the inspection of all true lovers; whilst no match-making
mamma, fortune-hunting younger brother, or girl of business on the look-out for a good establishment,
should be allowed a glimpse of it at any price.

CHAPTER XXXVII -- THE FORLORN HOPE

          "--Cumberland seeks thy hand;
          His shall it be--nay, no reply;
          Hence till those rebel eyes be dry."
          The Lord of the Isles.

FREDDY COLEMAN was cheated of his walk that afternoon; for an old maiden lady in the neighbourhood,
having read in a Sunday paper that the plague was raging with great fury at Constantinople,
thought it as well to be prepared for the worst, and summoned Mr. Coleman to receive directions
about making her will--and he, being particularly engaged, sent Freddy in his stead, who set
out on the mission in a state of comic ill-humour, which bid fair to render Mrs. Aikinside's
will a very original document indeed, and foreboded for that good old lady herself an unprecedented
and distracting afternoon.

I had assisted Mr. Coleman in conducting Clara Saville to the carriage which arrived to convey
her to Barstone, and had received a kind glance and a slight pressure of the hand in return,
which I would not have exchanged for the smiles of an empress, when, anxious to be alone with
my own thoughts, I started off for a solitary walk, nor did I relax my pace till I had left
all traces of human habitation far behind me, and green fields and leafless hedges were my
only companions. I then endeavoured in some measure to collect my scattered thoughts, and to
reflect calmly on the position in which I had placed myself, by the avowal the unexpected events
of the morning had hurried me into. But so much was I excited, that calm reflection appeared
next to impossible. Feeling--flushed with the victory it had obtained over its old antagonist,
Reason--seemed, in every sense of the word, to have gained the day, and, despite all the ~289~~
difficulties that lay before me--difficulties which I knew must appear all but insurmountable,
whenever I should venture to look them steadily in the face--the one idea that Clara Saville
loved me was ever present with me, and rendered me supremely happy.

The condition of loving another better than one's self, conventionally termed being "in love,"
is, to say the least, a very doubtful kind of happiness; and poets have therefore, with great
propriety, described it as "pleasing pain," "delicious misery," and in many other terms of
a like contradictory character; nor is it possible that this should be otherwise: love is a
passion, wayward and impetuous in its very nature--agitating and disquieting in its effects,
rendering its votary the slave of circumstances--a mere shuttlecock alternating between the
extremes of hope and fear, joy and sorrow, confidence and mistrust--a thing which a smile can
exalt to the highest pinnacle of delight, or a frown strike down to the depths of despair.
But in the consciousness that we are beloved, there is none of this questionable excitement;
on the contrary, we experience a sensation of deep calm joy, as we reflect that in the true
affection thus bestowed on us we have gained a possession which the cares and struggles of
life are powerless to injure, and which death itself, though it may interrupt for awhile, will
fail to destroy. These thoughts, or something like them, having entrenched themselves in the
stronghold of my imagination, for some time held their ground gallantly against the attacks
of common sense; but at length, repulsed on every point, they deemed it advisable to capitulate,
or (to drop metaphor, a style of writing I particularly abominate, perhaps because I never
more than half understand what it means) in plain English, I, with a sort of grimace, such
as one makes before swallowing a dose of physic, set myself seriously to work to reflect upon
my present position, and decide on the best line of conduct to be pursued for the future.

Before our conference came to an end, I had made Clara acquainted with my knowledge of Cumberland's
former delinquencies, as well as the reputation in which he was now held by such of his associates
as had any pretension to the title of gentlemen, and added my conviction, that, when once these
facts were placed before Mr. Vernor, he must see that he could not, consistently with his duty
as guardian, allow his ward to marry a man of such character. Cumberland had no doubt contrived
to keep his uncle in ignorance of his mode of life, ~290~~ and it would only be necessary to
enlighten him on that point to ensure his consent to her breaking off the engagement. Clara
appeared less sanguine of success, even hinting at the possibility of Mr. Vernor's being as
well informed in regard to his nephew's real character as we were; adding, that his mind was
too firmly set on the match for him to give it up lightly. It was finally agreed between us,
that she was to let me know how affairs went on after Mr. Vernor's return, and, in the meantime,
I was to give the matter my serious consideration, and decide on the best course for us to
follow. The only person in the establishment whom she could thoroughly trust was the extraordinary
old footman (the subject of Lawless's little bit of diplomacy), who had served under her father
in the Peninsula, and accompanied him home in the character of confidential servant. He had
consequently known Clara from a child, and was strongly-attached to her, so that she had learned
to regard him more in the light of a friend than a servant. Through this somewhat original
substitute for a confidant, we arranged to communicate with each other.

As to my own line of conduct, I very soon decided on that. I would only await a communication
from Clara to assure me that Mr. Vernor's determination with regard to her remained unchanged,
ere I would seek an interview with him, enlighten him as to Cumberland's true character, acquaint
him with Clara's aversion to the match, and induce him to allow of its being broken off. I
should then tell him of my own affection for her, and of my intention of coming forward to
demand her hand, as soon as, by my professional exertions, I should have realised a sufficient
independence to enable me to marry. As to Clara's fortune, if fortune she had, she might build
a church, endow an hospital, or buy herself bonnet ribbons with it, as she pleased, for not
a farthing of it would I ever touch on any consideration. No one should be able to say, that
it was for the sake of her money I sought to win her.

Well, all this was very simple, straightforward work;--where, then, were the difficulties which
had alarmed me so greatly? Let me see--Mr. Vernor might choose to fancy that it would take
some years to add to the £90 14s. 6£d. sufficiently to enable me to support a wife, and might
disapprove of his ward's engaging herself to me on that account. What if he did? I wished for
no engagement--let her remain free as air--her own true affection would stand my friend, and
on that I could rely, ~291~~ content, if it failed me, to--to--well, it did not signify what
I might do in an emergency which never could arise. No! only let him promise not to force her
inclinations--to give up his monstrous project of wedding her to Cumberland--and to leave her
free to bestow her hand on whom she would--and I should be perfectly satisfied. But suppose,
as Clara seemed to fear, he should refuse to break off the engagement with his nephew--suppose
he should forbid mo the house, and, taking advantage of my absence, use his authority to force
on this hateful marriage! All that would be extremely disagreeable, and I could not say I exactly
saw, at the moment, what means I should be able to employ, effectually to prevent it. Still
it was only a remote contingency--an old man like him, with one foot, as you might say, in
the grave (he could not have been above sixty, and his constitution, like everything else about
him, appeared of cast-iron), must have some conscience, must pay some little regard to right
and wrong: it would only be necessary to open his eyes to the enormity of wedding beauty and
innocence such as Clara's to a scoundrel like Cumberland--aman destitute of every honourable
feeling--oh! he must see that the thing was impossible, and, as the thought passed through
my mind, I longed for the moment when I should be confronted with him, and able to tell him so.

And Clara, too! sweet, bewitching, unhappy Clara! what must not she have gone through, ere
a mind, naturally buoyant and elastic as hers, could have been crushed into a state of such
utter dejection, such calm, spiritless despair! her only wish, to die--her only hope, to find
in the grave a place "where the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at rest!" But
brighter days were in store for her--it should be my ambition to render her married life so
happy, that, if possible, the recollection of all she had suffered having passed away, her
mind should recover its natural tone, and even her lightness of heart, which the chill atmosphere
of unkindness for a time had blighted, should revive again in the warm sunshine of affection.

Thus meditating, I arrived at Elm Lodge in a state of feeling containing about equal parts
of the intensely poetical and the very decidedly hungry.

On the second morning after the events I have described, a note was brought to me whilst I
was dressing. With trembling fingers I tore open the envelope, and read as follows:--

"I promised to inform you of what occurred on my ~292~~ return here, and I must therefore do
so, though what I have to communicate will only give you pain. All that my fears pointed at
has come to pass, and my doom appears irrevocably sealed. Late on the evening of my return
to Barstone, Mr. Vernor and his nephew arrived. I shall never forget the feeling of agony that
shot through my brain, as Richard Cumberland's footstep sounded in the hall, knowing, as I
too well did, the purpose with which he was come. I fancied grief had in great measure deadened
my feelings, but that moment served to undeceive me--the mixture of horror, aversion, and fear,
combined with a sense of utter helplessness and desolation, seemed, as it were, to paralyse me.

"But I know not why I am writing all this. The evening passed off without anything particular
taking place. Mr. Cumberland's manner towards me was regulated by the most consummate tact
and cunning, allowing the deep interest he pretends to feel in me to appear in every look and
action, yet never going far enough to afford me an excuse for repulsing him. This morning,
however, I have had an interview with Mr. Vernor, in which I stated my repugnance to the marriage
as strongly as possible. He was fearfully irritated, and, at length, on my repeating my refusal,
plainly told me that it was useless for me to resist his will--that I was in his power, and,
if I continued obstinate, I must be made to feel it. Oh! that man's anger is terrible to witness:
it is not that he is so violent--he never seems to lose his self-control--but says the most
cutting things in a tone of calm, sarcastic bitterness, which lends double force to all he
utters. I feel that it is useless for us to contend against fate: you cannot help me, and would
only embroil yourself with these men were you to attempt to do so. I shall ever look back upon
the few days we spent together as a bright spot in the dark void of my life--that life which
you preserved at the risk of your own. Alas! you little knew the cruel nature of the gift you
were bestowing. And now, farewell for ever! That you may find all the happiness your kindness
and generosity deserve, is the earnest prayer of one, whom, for her sake, as well as your own,
you must strive to forget."

"If I do forget her," exclaimed I, as I pressed the note to my lips, "may I----Well, never
mind, I'll go over and have it out with that old brute this very morning, and we'll see if
he can frighten me." And so saying, I set to work to finish dressing, in a great state of virtuous
indignation. ~293~~ "Freddy," inquired I, when breakfast was at length concluded, "where can
I get a horse?"

"Get a horse?" was the reply. "Oh! there are a great many places--it depends upon what kind
of horse you want: for race-horses, steeple-chasers, and hunters, I would recommend Tattersall's;
for hacks or machiners, there's Aldridge's, in St. Martin's Lane; while Dixon's, in the Barbican,
is the place to pick up a fine young carthorse--is it a young cart-horse you want?"

"My dear fellow, don't worry me," returned I, feeling very cross, and trying to look amiable;
"you know what I mean; is there anything rideable to be hired in Hilling-ford? I have a call
to make which is beyond a walk."

"Let me see," replied Freddy, musing; "you wouldn't like a very little pony, with only one
eye and a rat-tail, I suppose--it might look absurd with your long legs, I'm afraid--or else
Mrs. Meek, the undertaker's widow, has got a very quiet one that poor Meek used to ride--a
child could manage it:--there's the butcher's fat mare, but she won't stir a step without the
basket on her back, and it would be so troublesome for you to carry that all the way. Tomkins,
the sweep, has got a little horse he'd let you have, I daresay, but it always comes off black
on one's trousers: and the miller's cob is just as bad the other way with the flour. I know
a donkey--"

"So do I," was the answer, as, laughing in spite of myself, I turned to leave the room.

"Here, stop a minute!" cried Freddy, following me, "you are so dreadfully impetuous; there's
nothing morally wrong in being acquainted with a donkey, is there? 1 assure you I did not mean
anything personal; and now for a word of sense. Bumpus, at the Green Man, has got a tremendous
horse, which nearly frightened me into fits the only time I ever mounted him, so that it will
just suit you; nobody but a green man, or a knight-errant, which I consider much the same sort
of thing, would patronise such an animal--still, he's the only one I know of."

Coleman's tremendous horse, which proved to be a tall, pig-headed, hard-mouthed brute, with
a very decided will of his own, condescended, after sundry skirmishes and one pitched battle,
occasioned by his positive refusal to pass a windmill, to go the road I wished, and about an
hour's ride brought me to the gate of Barstone Park. So completely had I been hurried on by
feeling in every stage of the affair, and so entirely had all minor considerations given way
to the paramount object of ~294~~ securing Clara's happiness, with which, as I now felt, my
own was indissolubly linked, that it was not until my eye rested on the cold, grey stone of
Barstone Priory, and wandered over the straight walks and formal lawns of the garden, that
I became fully aware of the extremely awkward and embarrassing nature of the interview I was
about to seek. To force myself into the presence of a man more than double my own age, and,
from all I had seen or heard of him, one of the last people in the world to take a liberty
with, for the purpose of informing hint that his nephew, the only creature on earth that he
was supposed to love, was a low swindler, the associate of gamblers and blacklegs, did not
appear a line of conduct exactly calculated to induce him, at my request, to give up a scheme
on which he had set his heart, or to look with a favourable eye on my pretensions to the hand
of his ward. Still, there was no help for it; the happiness of her I loved was at stake, and,
had it been to face a fiend instead of a man, I should not have hesitated.

My meditations were here interrupted by a cock-pheasant, which, alarmed at my approach, rose
immediately under my horse's nose; an unexpected incident which caused that brute to shy violently,
and turn short round, thereby nearly unseating me. Having by this manoeuvre got his head towards
home, he not only refused to turn back again, but showed very unmistakable symptoms of a desire
to run away. Fortunately, however, since the days of "Mad Bess," my arms had grown considerably
stronger, and, by dint of pulling and sawing the creature's apology for a mouth with the bit,
I was enabled to frustrate his benevolent intentions, and even succeeded in turning him round
again; but here my power ceased--for in the direction of the Priory by no possibility could
I induce him to move a step. I whipped and spurred, but in vain; the only result was a series
of kicks and plunges, accompanied by a retrograde movement and a shake of the head, as if he
were saying, No! I next attempted the soothing system, and lavished sundry caresses and endearing
expressions upon him, of which he was utterly undeserving; but my attentions were quite thrown
away, and might as well, for any good they produced, have been bestowed upon a rocking-horse.
At length, after a final struggle, in which we were both within an ace of falling into a water-course
which crossed the park in that direction, I gave the matter up as hopeless; and with a sigh
(for I love not to be foiled in anything I have attempted, and, moreover, I could not help
looking upon it as an unlucky omen) dismounted, ~285~~ and leading my rebellious steed by the
rein, advanced on foot towards the house. As I did so a figure abruptly turned the corner of
a shrubbery walk, which ran at right angles to the road, and I found myself face to face with
Richard Cumberland!

For a moment he remained staring at me as if he scarcely recognised me, or was unwilling to
trust the evidence of his senses, so confounded was he at my unexpected apparition; but as
I met his gaze with a cold, stern look, he seemed to doubt no longer and advancing a step towards
me said, in a tone of ironical politeness:--"Is it possible that I have the pleasure of seeing
Mr. Fairlegh?"

"None other, Mr. Cumberland," returned I, "though I could hardly have flattered myself that
my appearance would have recalled any very pleasurable associations, considering the last two
occasions on which we met."

"Ah! you refer to that unfortunate affair with Wilford," replied Cumberland, purposely misunderstanding
my allusion to Dr. Mildman's. "I had hoped to have been able to prevent the mischief which
occurred, but I was misinformed as to the time of the meeting--I trust our friend Oaklands
feels no ill effects from his wound."

"Mr. Oaklands, I am sorry to say, recovers but slowly; the wound was a very severe one," returned
I coldly. "Well, I will not detain you any longer, it is a lovely morning for a ride," resumed
Cumberland; "can I be of any assistance in directing you? the lanes in this neighbourhood are
somewhat intricate--you are not perhaps aware that the road you are now following is a private
one." "Scarcely so private that those who have business with Mr. Vernor may not make use of
it, I presume," rejoined I. "Oh! of course not," was the reply--"I did not know that you were
acquainted with my uncle; though now I come to think of it, I do recollect his saying that
he had met you somewhere. He seldom receives visitors in the morning;--in fact, when I came
out, I left him particularly engaged. Perhaps I can save you the trouble of going up to the
house; is there any message I can deliver for you?" "I thank you," replied I, "but I do not
think the business which has brought me here could be well transacted through a third person;
at all events, I will take my chance of being admitted:"--I paused, but could not refrain from
adding, "besides, if my memory fails not, you were a somewhat heedless messenger in days of yore."

This allusion to his embezzlement of Oaklands' letter stung him to the quick: he turned as
white as ashes, and ~296~~ asked, in a voice that trembled with passion, "Whether I meant to
insult him?"

"I spoke heedlessly, and without deliberate intention," I replied; "but perhaps it is only
fair to tell you that for the future there can be no friendly communication between us; we
must either avoid each other altogether, which would be the most desirable arrangement, or
meet as strangers. The disgraceful conduct of the boy I could have forgiven and forgotten,
had not its memory been revived by the evil deeds of the man. Richard Cumberland, I know you
thoroughly; it is needless for me to add more."

As I spoke his cheek flushed, then grew pale again with shame and anger, while he bit his under
lip so severely that a red line remained where his teeth had pressed it. When I concluded,
he advanced towards me with a threatening gesture, but, unable to meet the steadfast look with
which I confronted him, he turned abruptly on his heel, and muttering, "You shall repent this,"
disappeared among the shrubs.

CHAPTER XXXVIII PACING THE ENEMY

          "'Sir,' said the Count, with brow exceeding grave,
          'Your unexpected presence here will make
          It necessary for myself to crave
          Its import? But perhaps it's a mistake.
          I hope it is so; and at once, to waive
          All compliment, I hope so for your sake.
          You understand my meaning, or you shall.'"
          Beppo.

"IS your master--is Mr. Vernor at home?" inquired I of the grim-visaged old servant, who looked,
if possible, taller and more wooden than when I had last seen him.

"Well, I suppose not, sir!" was the somewhat odd reply.

"You suppose!" repeated I; "if you have any doubt, had you not better go and see?"

"That won't be of no manner of use, sir," was the rejoinder; "I should not be none the wiser."

It was clear that the old man was a complete original; but his affection for Clara was a virtue
which in my eyes would have atoned for any amount of eccentricity; and as I was anxious to
stand well in his good graces, I ~297~~ determined to fall in with his humour; accordingly
I replied with a smile, "How do you make out that--did you never hear that seeing is believing?"

"Not always, sir," he answered, "for if I'd a trusted to my eyesight--and it ain't so bad neither
for a man that's no great way off sixty--I should have fancied Muster Wernor was a sitting
in the liberrary; but he told me he was not at home hisself, and he ought to know best."

"Tell him I won't detain him long," returned I, "but that I am come on business of importance."

"'Tain't of no manner of use, young gentleman," was the reply; "he told me he wasn't at home,
and he said it uncommon cross too, as if he meant it, and if I was to go to him twenty times
he'd only say the same thing." "What's your name, my good friend?" inquired I. "Peter Barnett,
at your service, sir," was the answer. "Well, then, Peter, we must contrive to understand one
another a little better. You have known your young mistress from a child, and have a sincere
regard for her--is it not so?"

"What, Miss Clara, God bless her!--why, I love her as if she was my own flesh and blood; I
should be a brute if I didn't, poor lamb."

"Well, then, when I tell you that her happiness is very nearly connected with the object of
my visit--when I say, that it is to prevent her from being obliged to do something of which
she has the greatest abhorrence that I am anxious to meet Mr. Vernor--I am sure you will contrive
that I shall see him."

As I concluded, the old man, muttering to himself, "That's it, is it?" began to examine me
from top to toe with a critical glance, as if I had been some animal he was about to purchase;
and when he reached my face, gazed at me long and fixedly, as though striving to read my character.
Apparently the result of his scrutiny was favourable, for after again saying in a low tone,
"Well, I likes the looks of him," he added, "This way, young gentleman--you shall see him if
that's what you want--it ain't a hanging matter, after all". As he spoke, he threw open the
door of the library, saying, "Gentleman says his business is wery partikler, so I thought you'd
better see him yourself".

Mr. Vernor, who was seated at a table writing, rose on my entrance, bowed stiffly to me, and,
casting a withering glance on Peter Barnett, signed to him to shut the door. As soon as that
worthy had obeyed the command, he ~298~~ resumed his seat, and, addressing me with the same
frigid politeness which he had shown on the occasion of my first visit to him, said, "I am
somewhat occupied this morning, and must therefore be excused for inquiring at once what very
particular business Mr. Fairlegh can have with me". His tone and manner, as he spoke, were
such as to render me fully aware of the pleasant nature of the task before me; namely, to make
the most disagreeable communication possible, to the most disagreeable person to whom such
a communication could be made. Still, I was regularly in for it; there was nothing left for
me but to "go a-head"; and as I thought of Clara and her sorrows, the task seemed to lose half
its difficulty. However, it was not without some hesitation that I began:--

"When you learn the object of my visit, sir, you will perceive that I have not intruded upon
you without reason". I paused; but, finding he remained silent, added--"As you are so much
occupied this morning, I had better perhaps enter at once upon the business which has brought
me here. You are probably aware that I have had the pleasure of spending the last few days
in the same house with Miss Saville." As I mentioned Clara's name, his brow grew dark as night;
but he still continued silent, and I proceeded. "It is, I should conceive, impossible for anyone
to enjoy the privilege of that young lady's society, without experiencing the warmest feelings
of admiration and interest. Towards the termination of her visit, accident led me to the knowledge
of her acquaintance with Mr. Cumberland, who I then learned, for the first time, was your nephew.
I would not willingly say anything which might distress or annoy you, Mr. Vernor," continued
I, interrupting myself, "but I fear that, in order to make myself intelligible, I must advert
to an affair which I would willingly have forgotten."

"Go on, sir," was the reply, in a cold sarcastic tone of voice--"pray finish your account without
reference to my feelings; I am not likely to alarm your sensibility by any affecting display
of them."

As the most sceptical could not have doubted for a moment the truth of this assertion, I resumed:
"From my previous knowledge of Mr. Cumberland's character, I could not but consider him an
unfit acquaintance for a young lady; and, on hinting this, and endeavouring to ascertain the
extent of Miss Saville's intimacy with him, I was equally shocked and surprised to learn that
she was actually engaged to him, and that you not only sanctioned the engagement, but were
even desirous that the match ~299~~ should take place. Feeling sure that this could only proceed
from your being ignorant of the character of the class of persons with whom your nephew associates,
and the more than questionable reputation he has thereby acquired, I considered it my duty
to afford you such information as may enable you to ascertain for yourself the truth of the
reports which have reached my ear."

"Exceedingly conscientious and praiseworthy: I ought to feel infinitely indebted to you, young
gentleman," interrupted Mr. Vernor sarcastically; "of course you made the young lady acquainted
with your disinterested and meritorious intentions '?"

"I certainly thought it right to inform Miss Saville of the facts I have mentioned, and to
obtain her permission, ere I ventured to interfere in her behalf."

As I spoke, the gloom on Mr. Vernor's brow grew darker, and I expected an outburst of rage,
but his self-control was stronger than 1 had imagined, for it was in the same cold ironical
manner that he replied, "And may I ask, supposing this iniquitous engagement to have been broken
off by your exertions, is Virtue to be its own reward? will you sit down content with having
done your duty? or have you not some snug little scheme in petto, to console the disconsolate
damsel for her loss? If I am not mistaken, you were professing warm feelings of admiration
for my ward a few minutes since."

"Had you waited till I had finished speaking, you would have perceived, sir, that your taunt
was undeserved. I have no wish to conceal anything from you--on the contrary, one of my chief
objects in seeking this interview was to inform you of the deep and sincere affection I entertain
for Miss Saville, and of my intention of coming forward to seek her hand, as soon as my professional
prospects shall enable me to support a wife."

"And have you succeeded in inducing the lady to promise, that, in the event of my allowing
her to break off her present engagement, she will wait for the somewhat remote and visionary
contingency you have hinted at?"

"I have never made the attempt, sir," replied I, drawing myself up proudly, for I began to
think that I was carrying forbearance too far, in submitting thus tamely to his repeated insults;
"my only desire is to convince you of the necessity of breaking off this preposterous engagement,
which is alike unsuitable in itself, and distasteful to Miss Saville; for the rest, I must
trust to time, and to the unshaken constancy of my own affection (with ~300~~ which it is only
fair to tell you the young lady is acquainted), for the accomplishment of my hopes. Had I the
power to fetter your ward by a promise which she might afterwards be led to repent, nothing
should induce me to make use of it."

"Really, your moderation is quite unparalleled," exclaimed Mr. Vernor; "such generosity now
might be almost calculated to induce a romantic girl to persuade her guardian to allow her
to marry at once, and devote her fortune to the purpose of defraying the household expenses,
till such time as the professional expectations you mention should be realised; and Clara Saville
is just the girl who might do it, for I am afraid I must distress your magnanimity by informing
you of a circumstance, of which, of course, you have not the slightest idea at present, namely,
that if Miss Saville should marry with her guardian's consent, she will become the possessor
of a very considerable fortune: what think you of such a plan?"

"Mr. Vernor," replied I, "I was aware that the communication I had to make to you was calculated
to pain and annoy you, and that circumstances obliged me to urge my suit at a moment most disadvantageous
to its success; I did not therefore imagine that our interview was likely to be a very agreeable
one; but I own I did expect to have credit given me for honourable motives, and to be treated
with the consideration due from one gentleman to another."

"It grieves me to have disappointed such moderate and reasonable expectations," was the reply;
"but, unfortunately, I have acquired a habit of judging men rather by their actions than their
words, and forming my opinion accordingly; and by the opinion thus formed I regulate my conduct
towards them."

"May I inquire what opinion you can possibly have formed of me, which would justify your treating
me otherwise than as a gentleman?" asked I, as calmly as I was able, for I was most anxious
not to allow him to perceive the degree to which his taunts irritated me.

"Certainly; only remember, if it is not exactly what you approve, that I mention it in compliance
with your own express request--but first, for I am unwilling to do you injustice, let me be
sure that I understand you clearly:--you state that you are unable to marry till you shall
have realised by your profession an income sufficient to support a wife; therefore, I presume
that your patrimony is somewhat limited."

~301~~ "You are right, sir; my poor father was too liberal a man to die rich; my present income
is somewhat less than a hundred pounds per annum."

"And your profession?"

"It is my intention to begin reading for the bar almost immediately."

"A profession usually more honourable than lucrative for the first ten years or so. Well, young
gentleman, the case seems to stand very much as I imagined, nor do I perceive any reason for
altering my opinion of your conduct. Chance throws in your way a young lady, possessing great
beauty, who is prospective heiress to a very valuable property, and it naturally enough occurs
to you, that making love is likely to be more agreeable, and in the present instance more profitable
also, than reading law; accordingly, you commence operations, and for some time all goes on
swimmingly, Miss Saville, like any other girl in her situation, having no objection to vary
the monotony of a long engagement by a little innocent flirtation; affairs of this kind, however,
seldom run smoothly long together, and at some moment, when you were rather more pressing than
usual, the young lady thinks it advisable to inform you, that in accordance with her father's
dying wish, and of her own free will, she has engaged herself to the nephew of her guardian,
who strangely enough happens to be an old schoolfellow of yours, against whom you have always
nourished a strong and unaccountable feeling of dislike. Here, then, was a famous opportunity
to display those talents for plotting and manoeuvring which distinguished Mr. Fairlegh even
in his boyish days; accordingly, a master-scheme is invented, whereby the guardian shall be
cajoled and brow-beaten into giving his consent, enmity satisfied by the rival's discomfiture
and overthrow, and talent rewarded by obtaining possession of the young lady and her fortune.
As a first step you take advantage of a lover's quarrel to persuade Miss Saville that she is
averse to the projected alliance, and trump up an old tale of some boyish scrape to induce
her to believe Cumberland unworthy of her preference, ending, doubtless, by modestly proposing
yourself as a substitute. Inexperience, and the natural capriciousness of woman, stand your
friend; the young lady appears for the moment gained over, and, flushed with success, the bold
step of this morning is resolved upon. Such, sir, is my opinion of your conduct. It only remains
for me to inform you that 1 have not the slightest intention of breaking off the engagement
in ~302~~ consequence of your disinterested representations, nor, under any circumstances,
would I allow my ward to throw herself away upon a needy fortune-hunter. There can be nothing
more to say, I think; and as I have some important papers to look over this morning, I dare
say you will excuse my ringing the bell."

"One moment, sir," replied I warmly, "although your age prevents my taking notice of the unprovoked
insults you have seen fit to heap upon me----"

"Really," interposed Mr. Vernor, in a deprecating tone, "you must pardon me; I have not time
for all this sort of thing to-day."

"You shall hear me!" exclaimed I passionately; "I have listened in silence to accusations calculated
to make the blood of any man, worthy to be so called, boil in his veins--accusations which,
at the very moment you utter them, you know to be entirely false: you know well Miss Saville's
just and deeply rooted aversion to this match, and you know that it existed before she and
I had ever met; you know the creditable nature of what you term the 'boyish scrape,' in which
your nephew was engaged--a scrape which, but for the generous forbearance of others, might
have ended in his transportation as a convicted felon; and this knowledge (even if you are
ignorant of the dishonourable and vicious course of life he now leads) should be enough to
prevent your sanctioning such a marriage. I pass over your insinuations respecting myself in
silence; should I again prefer my suit for Miss Saville's hand to you, it will be as no needy
fortune-hunter that I shall do so; but once more let me implore you to pause--reconsider the
matter--inquire for yourself into your nephew's pursuits--ascertain the character of his associates,
and then judge whether he is a fit person to be entrusted with the happiness of such a being
as Clara Saville."

"Vastly well, sir! exceedingly dramatic, indeed!" observed Mr. Vernor, with a sneer; "you really
have quite a talent for--genteel comedy, I think they call it; you would be perfect in the
line of character termed the 'walking gentleman'--have you ever thought of the stage?"

"I perceive," replied I, "that by remaining here, I shall only subject myself to additional
insult: determined to carry out your own bad purpose, you obstinately close your ears to the
voice alike of reason and of conscience; and now," I added, in a stern tone, "hear my resolve:
I have promised Miss Saville to save her from Richard ~303~~ Cumberland; as the fairest and
most honourable way of doing so, I applied to you, her lawful guardian and protector; I have
failed, and you have insulted and defied me. I now tell you, that I will leave NO MEANS untried
to defeat your nefarious project, and, if evil or disgrace should befal you or yours in consequence,
upon your own head be it. You may smile at my words, and disregard them as idle threats which
I am powerless to fulfil, but remember, you have no longer a helpless girl to deal with, but
a determined man, who, with right and justice on his side, may yet thwart your cunningly devised
schemes;--and so, having given you fair warning, I will leave you."

"Allow me to mention one fact, young sir," returned Mr. Vernor, "which demands your serious
attention, as it may prevent you from committing a fatal error, and save you all further trouble.
Should Clara Saville marry without my consent, she does so penniless, and the fortune devolves
upon the next heir; ha!" he exclaimed, as I was unable to repress an exclamation of pleasure,
"have I touched you there?"

"You have indeed, sir," was my reply; "for you have removed the only scruple which stood in
my way. No one can now accuse me of interested motives; 'needy fortune-hunters' do not seek
to ally themselves to portionless damsels; allow me to offer you my best thanks for your information,
and to wish you good-morning, sir."

So saying, I rose and quitted the room, leaving Mr. Vernor, in a state of ill-suppressed rage,
to the enjoyment of his own reflections.

On entering the hall, I found old Peter Barnett awaiting me. As I appeared, his stiff features
lighted up with a most sagacious grin of intelligence, and approaching me, he whispered:--

"Did ye give it him strong?" (indicating the person he referred to by an expressive jerk of
his thumb towards the library door). "I heard ye blowing of him up--but did ye give it him
reg'lar strong?"

"I certainly told Mr. Vernor my opinion with tolerable plainness," replied I, smiling at the
intense delight which was visible in every line of the strange old face beside me.

"No! Did ye?--did ye? That was right," was the rejoinder. "Lor! how I wish I'd a been there
to see; but I heard ye though--I heard ye a giving it to him," and again he relapsed into a
paroxysm of delight.

"Peter," said I, "I want to have a little private conversation with you--how is that to be
managed? Is there any place near where you could meet me?" ~304~~ "You come here from Hillingford,
didn't ye, sir?" I nodded assent. He continued:--"Did you notice a hand-post which stands where
four roads meet, about a mile and a half from here?"

"I saw it," returned I, "and even tried to read what was painted on it, but of course, after
the manner of all country direction posts, it was totally illegible."

"Well, when you get there, take the road to the left, and ride on till ye see an ale-house
on the right-hand side, and stay there till I come to ye."

"I will," replied I, "but don't keep me waiting longer than you can help--there's a good man."

An understanding grin was his only answer; and mounting my unpleasant horse (who seemed much
more willing to proceed quietly when his head was turned in a homeward direction), I rode slowly
through the park, my state of mind affording a practical illustration, that Quintus Horatius
Flaccus was about right in his conjecture that Care sometimes indulged herself with a little
equestrian exercise on a pillion.{1}

     1 "Post equitem sedet atra cura."

          "Now will I deliver his letter; for the behaviour
          of the young gentleman gives him out to be of
          good capacity and breeding."
          --Twelfth Night.

          "Farewell! be trusty, and I'll quit thy pains.
          Farewell! commend me to thy mistress."
          --Romeo and Juliet.

THE place of meeting appointed by Peter Barnett was easily discovered, and having tied up my
horse under a shed, which served the double purpose of stable and coach-house, I took possession
of a small room with a sanded floor, and throwing myself back in a most uneasy easy-chair,
began to think over my late interview, and endeavour to devise some practicable plan for the
future. The first thing was to establish some means of free communication with Clara, and this
I hoped to accomplish by the assistance of Peter Barnett. I should thus learn Mr. Vernor's
proceedings, and be able to regulate my ~305~~ conduct accordingly. If, as I dreaded, he should
attempt to force on the marriage immediately, would Clara, alone and unassisted, have sufficient
courage and strength of purpose to resist him? I feared not; and how was I effectually to aid
her? The question was more easily asked than answered. It was clear that her fortune was the
thing aimed at, for I could not believe either Mr. Vernor or his nephew likely to be actuated
by disinterested motives;--and it was to their avarice, then, that Clara was to be sacrificed--had
she been portionless she would have been free to marry whom she pleased. Of all sources of
evil and misery, money appears to be the most prolific; in the present case its action was
twofold--Clara was rendered wretched in consequence of possessing it, while the want of it
incapacitated me from boldly claiming her hand at once, which appeared to be the only effectual
method of assisting her.

My meditations were at this point interrupted by the arrival of my future privy counsellor,
Peter Barnett, who marched solemnly into the room, drew himself up to his full height, which
very nearly equalled that of the ceiling, brought his hand to his forehead in a military salute,
and then, closing the door cautiously, and with an air of mystery, stood at ease, evidently
intending me to open the conversation.

"Well, Peter," began I, by way of something to say, for I felt the greatest difficulty in entering
on the subject which then occupied my thoughts before such an auditor. "Well, Peter, you have
not kept me waiting long; I scarcely expected to see you so soon: do you imagine that Mr. Vernor
will remark your absence?"

"He knows it already," was the reply. "Why, bless ye, sir, he ordered me to go out hisself."
"Indeed! how was that?"

"Why, as soon as you was gone, sir, he pulled the bell like mad. 'Send Mr. Richard here,' says
he. 'Yes, sir,' says I, 'certingly; only he's not at home, sir.' When he heard this he grumbled
out an oath, or sumthin' of that nature, and I was going to take myself off, for I see he wasn't
altogether safe, when he roars out 'Stop!' ('You'd a said "halt," if you'd a been a officer
or a gentleman, which you ain't neither,' thinks I.) 'What do you mean by letting people in
when I have given orders to the contrairy?' says he. 'Who was it as blowed me up for sending
away a gent as said he wanted to see you on partiklar business, only yesterday?' says I. That
bothered him nicely, and he didn't know how to be down upon me; ~306~~ but at last he thought
he'd serve me one of his old tricks. So he says, 'Peter, what are you doing to-day'?' I see
what he was at, and I thought I'd ketch him in his own trap. 'Very busy a cleaning plate, sir,'
says I. This was enough for him: if I was a cleaning plate, in course I shouldn't like to be
sent out; so says he, 'Go down to Barnsley, and see whether Mr. Cumberland is there'. 'But
the plate, sir?' 'Never mind the plate.' 'It won't never look as it ought to do, if I am sent
about in this way,' says I. 'Do as you're ordered, and leave the room instantly,' says he,
grinding his teeth reg'lar savage-like. So I took him at his word, and come away to see you
as hard as I could pelt; but you've put him into a sweet temper, Mr. Fairlegh."

"Why, that I'm afraid was scarcely to be avoided," replied I, "as my business was to inform
him that I considered his nephew an unfit person to marry his ward."

"Oh! did you tho'?--did you tell him that?" cried my companion, with a chuckle of delight;
"that was right: I wonder how he liked that!"

"As he did not exactly agree with me in this opinion, but, on the contrary, plainly declared
his intention of proceeding with the match in spite of me, it is necessary for me to consider
what means I can best use to prevent him from accomplishing his object; it is in this that
1 shall require your assistance."

"And what does Miss Clara say about it, young gentleman?" inquired the old man, fixing his
eyes on me with a scrutinising glance.

"Miss Saville dislikes Richard Cumberland, and dreads the idea of being forced to marry him
above everything." "Ah! I know she does, poor lamb; and well she may, for there ain't a more
dissipateder young scoundrel to be found nowhere than Mr. Wernor's precious 'nephew,' as he
calls him, tho' it's my belief he might call him 'son' without telling a lie."

"Indeed! I was not aware that Mr. Vernor had ever been married."

"No; I never heard that he was reg'lar downright married; but he may be his son, for all that.
Howsurn-ever, p'raps it is so, or p'raps it ain't; I'm only a tellin' you what I fancies, sir,"
was the reply. "But what I wanted to know," he continued, again fixing his eyes on my face,
"is, what does Miss Clara say to you? eh!"

"You put home questions, my friend," replied I, colouring slightly; "however, as Miss Saville
tells me you are faithful and trustworthy, and as half-confidences are never ~307~~ of any
use, I suppose you must hear all about it." I then told him as concisely as possible of my
love for Clara, and my hopes of one day calling her my own; pointing out to him the difficulties
that stood in the way, and explaining to him that the only one which appeared to me insurmountable
was the probability of Mr. Vernor's attempting to force Clara into an immediate marriage with
Cumberland. Having thus given him an insight into the true state of affairs, I showed him the
necessity of establishing some means of communication between Clara and myself, as it was essential
that I should receive the earliest possible information in regard to Mr. Vernor's proceedings.

"I understand, sir," interrupted Peter, "you want to be able to write to each other without
the old 'un getting hold of your letters: well, that's very easily managed; only you direct
to Mr. Barnett, to be left at the Pig and Pony, at Barstone; and anything you send for Miss
Clara, I'll take care and give her when nobody won't be none the wiser for it; and any letters
she writes I'll put into the post myself. I'd do anything rather than let that young villain
Cumberland have her, and make her miserable, which his wife is safe to be, if ever he gets
one; and if you likes her and she likes you, as seems wery probable, considering you saved
her from being burnt to death, as they tell me, and is wery good-looking into the bargain--which
goes a great way with young ladies, if you'll excuse the liberty I takes in mentioning of it--why,
the best thing as you can do, is to get married as soon as you can."

"Very pleasant advice, friend Peter," returned I, "but not so easily acted upon; people cannot
marry nowadays without something to live upon."

"Well, ain't Miss Clara got Barstone Priory, and plenty of money to keep it up with? Won't
that do to live upon?"

"And do you imagine I could ever feel content to be the creature of my wife's bounty? prove
myself a needy fortune-hunter, as that old man dared to term me?" exclaimed I, forgetting the
character of my auditor.

"Barstone Priory to live in, and more money than you know what to do with, ain't to be sneezed
at neither," was the answer; "though I likes your independent spirit too, sir: but how do you
mean to manage, then?"

"Why, Mr. Vernor hinted that if his ward married without his consent, her fortune was to be
forfeited."

"Ah! I believe there was something of that nature in the will: my poor master was so wrapped
up in old Wernor that he wrote just wot he told him; if he'd only ~308~~ a lived to see how
he was going to use Miss Clara, he'd a ordered me to kick him out of the house instead."

"Perhaps that pleasure may be yet in store for you, Peter," replied I, laughing at the zest
with which he uttered the last few words, and an involuntary motion of the foot by which they
were accompanied; "but this power, which it seems Mr. Vernor really possesses, of depriving
Miss Saville of her fortune, removes my greatest difficulty; for in that case, if he should
attempt to urge on this match, I can at least make her the offer of sharing my poverty: there
is my mother's roof to shelter her, and, if her guardian refuses his consent to our marriage,
why, we must contrive to do without it, that is all. So now, Peter, if you will wait a few
minutes, I will give you a note for your young mistress, and then get to horse without further
loss of time;" and calling for pen, ink, and paper, I hastily scribbled a few lines to Clara,
informing her of the events of the morning, and of my unalterable determination to save her
from a union with Cumberland; begging her, at the same time, to continue firm in her opposition,
to acquaint me with everything that might occur, and to rely upon me for protection in the
event of anything like force being resorted to. I then entrusted my note to old Peter, begged
him to watch Master Richard Cumberland closely, told him that upon his care and vigilance depended
in great measure the happiness of his young mistress's life; tipped him handsomely, though
I had some trouble in making him take the money; and, mounting my ill-disposed horse, rode
back to Hillingford, on the whole tolerably well satisfied with my morning's work.

I found two letters awaiting my return: one from my mother, to say that she should be at Heathfield
Cottage on the following day, and begging me to meet her; the other from Ellis, telling me
that at length he hoped Oaklands was in a fair way to recover, it having been ascertained that
a piece of the wadding of the pistol had remained behind when the ball was extracted; this
had now come away, and the wound was healing rapidly. As his strength returned, Harry was growing
extremely impatient to get back to Heathfield; and Ellis concluded by saying that they might
be expected any day, and begging me at the same time to remember that from the first he had
always declared, in regard to his patient, that it would have killed any other man, but that
it could not kill him.

Days glided by, the absentees returned, and matters fell so completely into their old train
again that the occurrences ~309~~ of the last eight months seemed like the unreal creations
of some fevered dream, and there were times when I could scarcely bring myself to believe them
true.

Harry Oaklands had recovered sufficiently to resume his usual habits; and, except that he was
strictly forbidden to over-exert or fatigue himself (an injunction he appeared only too willing
to obey), he was nearly emancipated from medical control. Fanny had in great measure regained
her good looks again; a slight delicacy of appearance, however, still remained, giving a tone
of spirituality to the expression of her features, which was not before observable, and which
to my mind rendered her prettier than ever: the listlessness of manner which had made me uneasy
about her in the autumn had vanished, and her spirits seemed good; still, she was in a degree
altered, and one felt in talking to her that she was a child no longer. Like Undine, that graceful
creation of La Motte Fouqué's genius, she appeared to have changed from a "tricksy sprite"
into a thinking and feeling woman.

One morning Oaklands and Ellis came to the cottage together, the latter in a great state of
joy and excitement, produced by a most kind and judicious exercise of liberality on the part
of Sir John. About a month before, the grave and pompous Dr. Probehurt had been seized with
an illness, from which in all probability he would have recovered had he not steadily refused
to allow a rival practitioner to be called in, in order that he might test a favourite theory
of his own, embodying a totally novel mode of treatment for the complaint with which he was
attacked. Unfortunately, the experiment failed, and the doctor died. Sir John, who had been
long anxious to evince his gratitude to Ellis for the skill and attention he had bestowed upon
his patient, the moment he heard of the event determined to purchase the business: he had that
morning completed the negotiation, and offered the practice to Ellis, stating that he should
consider his accepting it in the light of a personal favour, as in that case he would be always
at hand, should Harry feel any lasting ill effects from his wound. Ellis's joy was most amusing
to witness.

"I tell you what, sir," he exclaimed, seizing me by a button of the coat, "I'm a made man,
sir! there isn't a better practice in the county. Why, poor Probehurt told me himself old Mrs.
Croaker Crawley alone was worth a hundred pounds per annum to him:--four draughts and two pills
everyday--prescription very simple--R. Pil. panis compos, ii. nocte sum.; haust. aqua vitæ
1/2, aqua pura 1/2 ~310~~ saccar. viii. grs. pro re nata. She's a strong old girl, and on brandy-and-water
draughts and French-roll pills may last for the next twenty years. Noble thing of Sir John,
very; 'pon my word, it has quite upset me--it's a fact, sir, that when Mr. Oaklandstold me
of it I sat down and cried like a child. I'm not over tender-hearted either: when I was at
Guy's I amputated the left leg of a shocking accident, and dissected the porter's mother-in-law
(whom he sold us cheap for old acquaintance' sake) before breakfast one morning, without finding
my appetite in the slightest degree affected; but when I learned what Sir John had done, I
positively cried, sir."

"I say, Ellis," interrupted Harry, "I am telling Miss Fairlegh I shall make you take her in
hand; she has grown so pale and thin, I am afraid she has never recovered all the trouble and
inconvenience we caused her."

"If Miss Fairlegh would allow me, I should recommend a little more air and exercise," replied
Ellis: "are you fond of riding on horseback?"

"Oh, yes!" replied Fanny, smiling, and blushing slightly at thus suddenly becoming the topic
of conversation; "that is, I used to delight in riding Frank's pony in days of yore; but he
has not kept a pony lately."

"That is easily remedied," returned Harry; "I am certain some of our horses will carry a lady.
I shall speak to Harris about it directly, and we'll have some rides together, Fanny; it was
only this morning that I obtained my tyrant's permission to cross a horse once more," he added,
shaking his fist playfully at Ellis.

"The tyrant will agree to that more willingly than to your first request. What do you think,
Fairlegh," continued Ellis, appealing to me, "of his positively wanting to go out hunting?"

"And a very natural thing to wish too, I conceive," replied Harry; "but what do you think of
his declaring that, if I did not faithfully promise I would not hunt this season, he would
go into the stables and divide, what he called in his doctor's lingo, the flexor metatarsi
of every animal he found there, which, being interpreted, means neither more nor less than
hamstring all the hunters."

"Well, that would be better than allowing you to do anything which might disturb the beautiful
process of granulation going on in your side. I remember, when I was a student at Guy's----"

"Come, doctor, we positively cannot stand any more of your 'Chronicles of the Charnel-house'
this morning; ~311~~ you have horrified Miss Fairlegh already to such a degree that she is
going to run away. If I should stroll down here again in the afternoon, Fanny, will you take
compassion on me so far as to indulge me with a game of chess? I am going to send Frank on
an expedition, and my father and Ellis are off to settle preliminaries with poor Mrs. Probehurt,
so that I shall positively not have a creature to speak to. Reading excites me too much, and
produces a state of---- What is it you call it, doctor?"

"I told you yesterday I thought you were going into a state of coma, when you fell asleep over
that interesting paper of mine in the Lancet, 'Recollections of the Knife'; if that's what
you call excitement," returned Ellis, laughing----

"Nonsense, Ellis, how absurd you are!" rejoined Oak-lands, half-amused and half-annoyed at
Ellis's remark; "but you have not granted my request yet, Fanny."

"I do not think we have any engagement--mamma will, I am sure, be very happy"--began Fanny,
with a degree of hesitation for which I could not account; but as I was afraid Oaklands might
notice it, and attribute it to a want of cordiality, I hastened to interrupt her by exclaiming,
"Mamma will be very happy--of course she will; and each and all of us are always only too happy
to get you here, old fellow; it does one's heart good to see you beginning to look a little
more like yourself again. If Fanny's too idle to play chess, I'll take compassion upon you,
and give you a thorough beating myself."

"There are two good and sufficient reasons why you will not do anything of the kind," replied
Oaklands: "in the first place, while you have been reading mathematics, I have been studying
chess; and I think that I may, without conceit, venture to pronounce myself the better player
of the two; and in the second place, as I told your sister just now, I am going to send you
out on an expedition."

"To send me on an expedition!" repeated I--"may I be allowed to inquire its nature--where I
am to go to--when I am to start--and all other equally essential particulars?"

"They are soon told," returned Oaklands. "I wrote a few days since to Lawless, asking him to
come down for a week's hunting before the season should be over; and this morning I received
the following characteristic answer: 'Dear Oaklands, a man who refuses a good offer is an ass
(unless he happens to have had a better one). Now, yours being the best offer down in my book
~312~~ at present, I say, "done, along with you, old fellow," thereby clearly proving that
I am no ass. Q. E. D.--eh? that's about the thing, isn't it? Now, look here, Jack Basset has
asked me down to Storley Wood for a day's pheasant shooting on Tuesday: if you could contrive
to send any kind of trap over about lunch-time, on Wednesday, I could have a second pop at
the long-tails, and be with you in time for a half-past six o'clock feed as it is not more
than ten miles from Storley to Heathfield. I wouldn't have troubled you to send for me, only
the tandem's hors de combat. I was fool enough to lend it to Muffington Spoffkins to go and
see his aunt one fine day. The horses finding a fresh hand on the reins, began pulling like
steam-engines--Muffington could not hold them--consequently they bolted; and after running
over two whole infant schools, and upsetting a retired grocer, they knocked the cart into "immortal
smash" against a turnpike-gate, pitching Spoffkins into a horse-pond, with Shrimp a-top of
him. It was a regular sell for all parties: I got my cart broken to pieces, Shrimp was all
but drowned, and Muffington's aunt cut him off with a shilling, because the extirpated squadron
of juveniles turned out, unfortunately, to have been a picked detachment of infantry from her
own village. If you could send to meet me at the Feathers' public-house, which is just at the
bottom of Storley great wood, it would be a mercy, for walking in cover doesn't suit my short
legs, and I'm safe to be used up.--Remember us to Fairlegh and all inquiring friends, and believe
me to remain, very heartily, yours, George Lawless.'"

"I comprehend," said I, as Oaklands finished reading the note, "you wish me to drive over this
afternoon and fetch him: it will be a great deal better than merely sending a servant."

"Why, I had thought of going myself, but, 'pon my word, these sort of things are so much trouble--at
least to me, I mean; and, though Lawless is a capital, excellent fellow, and I like him extremely,
yet I know he'll talk about nothing but horses all the way home; and not being quite strong
again yet, you've no notion how that kind of thing worries and tires me."

"Don't say another word about it, my dear Harry; I shall enjoy the drive uncommonly. What vehicle
had I better take?"

"The phaeton, I think," replied Oaklands, "and then you can bring his luggage, and Shrimp,
or any of his people he may have with him."

~313~~ "So be it," returned I; "I'll walk back with you to the Hall, and then start as soon
as you please.

CHAPTER XL -- LAWLESS'S MATINÉE MUSICALE

          "I was deep in my tradesmen's books, I'm afraid,
          But not in my own, by-the-by;
          And when rascally tailors came to be paid,
          There'll be time enough for that, said I."
          --Song--The Old Bachelor.

          "Here's a knocking, indeed! Knock, knock, knock.
          Who's there? Faith, here's an English tailor come hither.
          ----Come in, tailor----
          Knock, knock.    Never at quiet!
          What are you?   I had thought to have let in
          Some of all professions.    Anon--anon."
          --Macbeth.

I SCARCELY know any excitement more agreeable than driving, on a fine frosty day, a pair of
spirited horses, which demand the exercise of all one's coolness and skill to keep their fiery
natures under proper control. Some accident had happened to one of Sir John's old phaeton horses,
and Harry, who fancied that, as he was not allowed to use any violent exercise, driving would
be an amusement to him, had taken the opportunity of replacing them by a magnificent pair of
young, nearly thorough-bred chestnuts; and these were the steeds now entrusted to my guidance.
Not being anxious, however, to emulate the fate of the unfortunate Muffington Spoffkins, I
held them well in hand for the first three or four miles, and as they became used to their
work, gradually allowed them to quicken their pace, till we were bowling along merrily at the
rate of ten miles an hour.

A drive of about an hour and a quarter brought me within sight of the little roadside public-house
appointed for my rendezvous with Lawless. As I drew sufficiently near to distinguish figures,
I perceived the gentleman in question scientifically and picturesquely attired in what might
with great propriety be termed no end of a shooting jacket, inasmuch as its waist, being prolonged
to a strange and unaccountable extent, had, as a necessary consequence, invaded the region
of the skirt to a degree which reduced that appendage to the most absurd and infinitesimal
proportions. This wonderful garment was ~314~~ composed of a fabric which Freddy Coleman, when
he made its acquaintance some few days later, denominated the Mac Omnibus plaid, a gaudy répertoire
of colours, embracing all the tints of the rainbow, and a few more besides, and was further
embellished by a plentiful supply of gent.'s sporting buttons, which latter articles were not
quite so large as cheese-plates, and represented in bas-relief a series of moving incidents
by flood and field. His nether man exhibited a complicated arrangement of corduroys, leather
gaiters and waterproof boots, which were, of course, wet through; while, to crown the whole,
his head was adorned with one of those round felt hats, which exactly resemble a boiled apple-pudding,
and are known by the sobriquet of "wide-awakes," "cos they av'n't got no nap about 'em". A
stout shooting pony was standing at the door of the ale-house, with a pair of panniers, containing
a portmanteau and a gun-case, slung across its back, upon which was seated in triumph the mighty
Shrimp, who seemed to possess the singular property of growing older, and nothing else; for,
as well as one could judge by appearances, he had not increased an inch in stature since the
first day of our acquaintance. His attitude, as I drove up, was one which Hunt would have delighted
to perpetuate. Perched on a kind of pack-saddle, his legs stretched so widely apart, by reason
of the stout proportions of the pony, as to be nearly at right angles with his upper man, he
"held aloft" (not a "snowy scarf," but) a pewter pot, nearly as large as himself, the contents
of which he was transferring to his own throat, with an air of relish and savoir faire, which
would have done credit to a seven-feet-high coalheaver. The group was completed by a gamekeeper,
who, seated on a low wooden bench, was dividing some bread and cheese with a magnificent black
retriever.

"By Jove! what splendid steppers!" was Lawless's exclamation as I drove up. "Now, that's what
I call perfect action; high enough to look well, without battering the feet to pieces--the
leg a little arched, and thrown out boldly--no fear of their putting down their pins in the
same place they pick them up from. Ah!" he continued, for the first time observing me, "Fairlegh,
how are you, old fellow? Slap-up cattle you've got there, and no mistake--belong to Sir John
Oaklands, I suppose. Do you happen to know where he got hold of them?"

"Harry wanted a pair of phaeton horses, and the coachman recommended these," replied I; "but
I've no idea where he heard of them."

~315~~ "Rising five and six," continued Lawless, examining their mouths with deep interest;
"no do there--the tush well up in one, and nicely through in the other, and the mark in the
nippers just as it should be to correspond: own brothers, I'll bet a hundred pounds--good full
eyes; small heads, well set on; slanting shoulders; legs as clean as a colt's; hoofs a leetle
small, but that's the breed. Whereabouts was the figure, did you hear?--five fifties never
bought them, unless they were as cheap as dirt, eh?"

"That was about their price, if I remember correctly," replied I. "Harry thought it was too
much to give; but Sir John, the moment he saw his son would like to have them, wrote the cheque,
and paid for them on the spot." "Well, I'll give him all the money any day, if he's tired of
his bargain," rejoined Lawless; "but we won't keep them standing now they're warm. Here, Shrimp,
my greatcoat--get off that pony this instant, you luxurious young vagabond. Never saw such
a boy in my life to ride as that is--if there is anything that can by possibility carry him,
not a step will he stir on foot--doesn't believe legs were meant to walk with, it's my opinion.
Why, this very morning, before they brought out the shooting pony, he got on the retriever;
and he has such a seat too, that the dog could not throw him, till Basset thought of sending
him into the water: he slipped off in double-quick time then, for he has had a regular hydrophobia
upon him ever since his adventure in the horse-pond. What, not down yet? I shall take a horsewhip
to you, sir, directly."

Thus admonished, Shrimp, who had taken advantage of his master's preoccupation to finish the
contents of the pewter pot, tossed the utensil to the gamekeeper, having previously attracted
that individual's attention by exclaiming, in a tone of easy familiarity--"Look out, Leggings!"--then,
as the man, taken by surprise, and having some difficulty in saving himself from a blow on
the nose, allowed the pot to slip through his hands, Shrimp continued, "Catch it, clumsy! veil,
I never--now mind, if you've gone and bumped it, it's your own doing, and you pays for dilapidations,
as ve calls 'em at Cambridge. Coming, sir--d'rec'ly, sir--yes, sir." So saying, he slipped
down the pony's shoulder, shook himself to set his dress in order as soon as he reached terra
firma, and unbuckling Lawless's driving coat, which was fastened round his waist by a broad
strap, jumped upon a horse-block, and held out the garment at arm's length for ~316~~ his master
to put on. The gun-case and carpet-bag were then transferred from the pony to the phaeton,
and, resigning the reins to Lawless, who I knew would be miserable unless he were allowed to
drive, we started. Shrimp being installed in the hind seat, where, folding his arms, he leaned
back, favouring us with a glance which seemed to say, "You may proceed, I am quite comfortable".

"It was about time for me to take an affectionate farewell of Alma Mater," observed Lawless,
after he had criticised and admired the horses afresh, and at such length, that I could not
help smiling at the fulfilment of Oaklands' prediction--"it was about time for me to be off,
for the duns were becoming rather too particular in their attentions. I got a precious fright
the other day, I can tell you. I was fool enough to pay two or three bills, and that gave the
rest of the fellows a notion that I was about to bolt, I suppose, for one morning I was regularly
besieged by them. I taught them a trick or two, though, before I had done with them: they won't
forget me in a hurry, I expect."

"Indeed! and how did you contrive to fix yourself so indelibly in their recollections?" asked I.

"Eh! 'though lost to sight, to memory dear'--rather that style of thing, you know. So you want
to hear all about it, eh? Well, it was a good lark, I must say; I was telling it to Basset
last night, and it nearly killed him. I don't know whether you have seen him lately, but he's
grown horribly fat. He has taken to rearing prize bullocks, and I think he has caught it of
'em; rides sixteen stone, if he rides a pound. I tell him he'll break his neck some of these
days, if he chooses to go on hunting--the horses can't stand it. However, he went into such
fits of laughter when I told him about it, that he got quite black in the face, and I rang
the bell, and swore he was in an apoplexy, but the servant seemed used to the sort of thing,
and brought him a jug of beer, which resuscitated him. Well, to return to my mutton, as the
Mounseers have it--the very day I intended to leave Cambridge, Shrimp came in while I was breakfasting,
with a great coarse-looking letter in his hand.

"'Please, sir, Mr. Pigskin has called with his little account, and would be very glad if you
could let him have the money.'

"Pleasant, thinks I. 'Here, boy, let's have a look at this precious little account--hum! ha!
hunting-saddle, gag-bit for Lamplighter, head-piece and reins to ditto, ~317~~"racing-saddle
for chestnut mare,' etc., etc., etc.; a horrid affair as long as my arm--total £96 18s. 2d.;
and the blackguard had charged everything half as much again as he had told me when I ordered
it. Still, I thought I'd pay the fellow, and have done with him, if I had got tin enough left;
so I told Shrimp to show him into the rooms of a man who lived over me, but was away at the
time, and there let him wait. Lo! and behold! when I came to look about the tin, I found that,
instead of having ninety pounds at the banker's, I had overdrawn my account some hundred pounds
or more; so that paying was quite out of the question, and I was just going to ring the bell,
and beg Mr. Pigskin to call again in a day or two, by which time I should have been 'over the
hills and far away,' when Shrimp made his appearance.

"'Please, sir, there's ever so many more gents called for their money. There's Mr. Flanker,
the whipmaker, and Mr. Smokem, from the cigar-shop, and Trotter, the bootmaker, and--yes, sir,
there's a young man from Mr. Tinsel, the jeweller: and, oh! a load more of 'em, if you please,
sir.'

"This was agreeable, certainly; what to be at I didn't know, when suddenly a bright idea came
across me.

"'What have you done with 'em?' asked I.

"'Put 'em all into Mr. Skulker's rooms, sir.'

"'That's the ticket,' said I. 'Now, listen to me. Look out, and see if there are any more coming;--if
there are, show 'em up to the others; take 'em a couple of bottles of wine and some glasses,
and tell them I must beg them to wait a quarter of an hour or so, while I look over their bills;
and as soon as the room is full, come and tell me.'

"In about ten minutes Shrimp reported that he could not see any more coming, and that he thought
'all the gents I dealt with was upstairs'.

