English Men of Letters

                        EDITED BY JOHN MORLEY

                              GOLDSMITH

                                  BY

                            WILLIAM BLACK

                                London

                           MACMILLAN AND CO

                                 1878

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY

CHAPTER II.

SCHOOL AND COLLEGE

CHAPTER III.

IDLENESS, AND FOREIGN TRAVEL

CHAPTER IV.

EARLY STRUGGLES.--HACK-WRITING

CHAPTER V.

BEGINNING OF AUTHORSHIP.--THE BEE

CHAPTER VI.

PERSONAL TRAITS

CHAPTER VII.

THE CITIZEN OF THE WORLD.--BEAU NASH

CHAPTER VIII.

THE ARREST

CHAPTER IX.

THE TRAVELLER

CHAPTER X.

MISCELLANEOUS WRITING

CHAPTER XI.

THE VICAR OF WAKEFIELD

CHAPTER XII.

THE GOOD-NATURED MAN

CHAPTER XIII.

GOLDSMITH IN SOCIETY

CHAPTER XIV.

THE DESERTED VILLAGE

CHAPTER XV.

OCCASIONAL WRITINGS

CHAPTER XVI.

SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER

CHAPTER XVII.

INCREASING DIFFICULTIES.--THE END

       *       *       *       *       *

GOLDSMITH

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY.

"Innocently to amuse the imagination in this dream of life is wisdom." So wrote Oliver Goldsmith;
and surely among those who have earned the world's gratitude by this ministration he must be
accorded a conspicuous place. If, in these delightful writings of his, he mostly avoids the
darker problems of existence--if the mystery of the tragic and apparently unmerited and unrequited
suffering in the world is rarely touched upon--we can pardon the omission for the sake of the
gentle optimism that would rather look on the kindly side of life. "You come hot and tired
from the day's battle, and this sweet minstrel sings to you," says Mr. Thackeray. And it is
to be suspected--it is to be hoped, at least--that the cheerfulness which shines like sunlight
through Goldsmith's writings, did not altogether desert himself even in the most trying hours
of his wayward and troubled career. He had, with all his sensitiveness, a fine happy-go-lucky
disposition; was ready for a frolic when he had a guinea, and, when he had none, could turn
a sentence on the humorous side of starvation; and certainly never attributed to the injustice
or neglect of society misfortunes the origin of which lay nearer home.

Of course, a very dark picture might be drawn of Goldsmith's life; and the sufferings that
he undoubtedly endured have been made a whip with which to lash the ingratitude of a world
not too quick to recognise the claims of genius. He has been put before us, without any brighter
lights to the picture, as the most unfortunate of poor devils; the heart-broken usher; the
hack ground down by sordid booksellers; the starving occupant of successive garrets. This is
the aspect of Goldsmith's career which naturally attracts Mr. Forster. Mr. Forster seems to
have been haunted throughout his life by the idea that Providence had some especial spite against
literary persons; and that, in a measure to compensate them for their sad lot, society should
be very kind to them, while the Government of the day might make them Companions of the Bath
or give them posts in the Civil Service. In the otherwise copious, thorough, and valuable Life
and Times of Oliver Goldsmith, we find an almost humiliating insistance on the complaint that
Oliver Goldsmith did not receive greater recognition and larger sums of money from his contemporaries.
Goldsmith is here "the poor neglected sizar"; his "marked ill-fortune" attends him constantly;
he shares "the evil destinies of men of letters"; he was one of those who "struggled into fame
without the aid of English institutions"; in short, "he wrote, and paid the penalty." Nay,
even Christianity itself is impeached on account of the persecution suffered by poor Goldsmith.
"There had been a Christian religion extant for seventeen-hundred and fifty-seven years," writes
Mr. Forster, "the world having been acquainted, for even so long, with its spiritual necessities
and responsibilities; yet here, in the middle of the eighteenth century, was the eminence ordinarily
conceded to a spiritual teacher, to one of those men who come upon the earth to lift their
fellow-men above its miry ways. He is up in a garret, writing for bread he cannot get, and
dunned for a milkscore he cannot pay." That Christianity might have been worse employed than
in paying the milkman's score is true enough, for then the milkman would have come by his own;
but that Christianity, or the state, or society should be scolded because an author suffers
the natural consequences of his allowing his expenditure to exceed his income, seems a little
hard. And this is a sort of writing that is peculiarly inappropriate in the case of Goldsmith,
who, if ever any man was author of his own misfortunes, may fairly have the charge brought
against him. "Men of genius," says Mr. Forster, "can more easily starve, than the world, with
safety to itself, can continue to neglect and starve them." Perhaps so; but the English nation,
which has always had a regard and even love for Oliver Goldsmith, that is quite peculiar in
the history of literature, and which has been glad to overlook his faults and follies, and
eager to sympathise with him in the many miseries of his career, will be slow to believe that
it is responsible for any starvation that Goldsmith may have endured.

However, the key-note has been firmly struck, and it still vibrates. Goldsmith was the unluckiest
of mortals, the hapless victim of circumstances. "Yielding to that united pressure of labour,
penury, and sorrow, with a frame exhausted by unremitting and ill-rewarded drudgery, Goldsmith
was indebted to the forbearance of creditors for a peaceful burial." But what, now, if some
foreigner strange to the traditions of English literature--some Japanese student, for example,
or the New Zealander come before his time--were to go over the ascertained facts of Goldsmith's
life, and were suddenly to announce to us, with the happy audacity of ignorance, that he, Goldsmith,
was a quite exceptionally fortunate person? "Why," he might say, "I find that in a country
where the vast majority of people are born to labour, Oliver Goldsmith was never asked to do
a stroke of work towards the earning of his own living until he had arrived at man's estate.
All that was expected of him, as a youth and as a young man, was that he should equip himself
fully for the battle of life. He was maintained at college until he had taken his degree. Again
and again he was furnished with funds for further study and foreign travel; and again and again
he gambled his opportunities away. The constant kindness of his uncle only made him the best
begging-letter-writer the world has seen. In the midst of his debt and distress as a bookseller's
drudge, he receives £400 for three nights' performance of The Good-Natured Man; he immediately
purchases chambers in Brick Court for £400; and forthwith begins to borrow as before. It is
true that he died owing £2000, and was indebted to the forbearance of creditors for a peaceful
burial; but it appears that during the last seven years of his life he had been earning an
annual income equivalent to £800 of English currency.[1] He was a man liberally and affectionately
brought up, who had many relatives and many friends, and who had the proud satisfaction--which
has been denied to many men of genius--of knowing for years before he died that his merits
as a writer had been recognised by the great bulk of his countrymen. And yet this strange English
nation is inclined to suspect that it treated him rather badly; and Christianity is attacked
because it did not pay Goldsmith's milkscore."

[Footnote 1: The calculation is Lord Macaulay's: see his Biographical Essays.]

Our Japanese friend may be exaggerating; but his position is after all fairly tenable. It may
at least be looked at, before entering on the following brief résumé of the leading facts in
Goldsmith's life, if only to restore our equanimity. For, naturally, it is not pleasant to
think that any previous generation, however neglectful of the claims of literary persons (as
compared with the claims of such wretched creatures as physicians, men of science, artists,
engineers, and so forth) should so cruelly have ill-treated one whom we all love now. This
inheritance of ingratitude is more than we can bear. Is it true that Goldsmith was so harshly
dealt with by those barbarian ancestors of ours?

CHAPTER II.

SCHOOL AND COLLEGE.

The Goldsmiths were of English descent; Goldsmith's father was a Protestant clergyman in a
poor little village in the county of Longford; and when Oliver, one of several children, was
born in this village of Pallas, or Pallasmore, on the 10th November, 1728, the Rev. Charles
Goldsmith was passing rich on £40 a year. But a couple of years later Mr. Goldsmith succeeded
to a more lucrative living; and forthwith removed his family to the village of Lissoy, in the
county of Westmeath.

Here at once our interest in the story begins: is this Lissoy the sweet Auburn that we have
known and loved since our childhood? Lord Macaulay, with a great deal of vehemence, avers that
it is not; that there never was any such hamlet as Auburn in Ireland; that The Deserted Village
is a hopelessly incongruous poem; and that Goldsmith, in combining a description of a probably
Kentish village with a description of an Irish ejectment, "has produced something which never
was, and never will be, seen in any part of the world." This criticism is ingenious and plausible,
but it is unsound, for it happens to overlook one of the radical facts of human nature--the
magnifying delight of the mind in what is long remembered and remote. What was it that the
imagination of Goldsmith, in his life-long banishment, could not see when he looked back to
the home of his childhood, and his early friends, and the sports and occupations of his youth?
Lissoy was no doubt a poor enough Irish village; and perhaps the farms were not too well cultivated;
and perhaps the village preacher, who was so dear to all the country round, had to administer
many a thrashing to a certain graceless son of his; and perhaps Paddy Byrne was something of
a pedant; and no doubt pigs ran over the "nicely sanded floor" of the inn; and no doubt the
village statesmen occasionally indulged in a free fight. But do you think that was the Lissoy
that Goldsmith thought of in his dreary lodgings in Fleet-Street courts? No. It was the Lissoy
where the vagrant lad had first seen the "primrose peep beneath the thorn"; where he had listened
to the mysterious call of the bittern by the unfrequented river; it was a Lissoy still ringing
with the glad laughter of young people in the twilight hours; it was a Lissoy for ever beautiful,
and tender, and far away. The grown-up Goldsmith had not to go to any Kentish village for a
model; the familiar scenes of his youth, regarded with all the wistfulness and longing of an
exile, became glorified enough.

There was but little in the circumstances of Goldsmith's early life likely to fit him for,
or to lead him into, a literary career; in fact, he did not take to literature until he had
tried pretty nearly everything else as a method of earning a living. If he was intended for
anything, it was no doubt his father's wish that he should enter the Church; and he got such
education as the poor Irish clergyman--who was not a very provident person--could afford. The
child Goldsmith was first of all taught his alphabet at home, by a maid-servant, who was also
a relation of the family; then, at the age of six, he was sent to that village school which,
with its profound and learned master, he has made familiar to all of us; and after that he
was sent further a-field for his learning, being moved from this to the other boarding-school
as the occasion demanded. Goldsmith's school-life could not have been altogether a pleasant
time for him. We hear, indeed, of his being concerned in a good many frolics--robbing orchards,
and the like; and it is said that he attained proficiency in the game of fives. But a shy and
sensitive lad like Goldsmith, who was eagerly desirous of being thought well of, and whose
appearance only invited the thoughtless but cruel ridicule of his schoolmates, must have suffered
a good deal. He was little, pitted with the small-pox, and awkward; and schoolboys are amazingly
frank. He was not strong enough to thrash them into respect of him; he had no big brother to
become his champion; his pocket-money was not lavish enough to enable him to buy over enemies
or subsidise allies.

In similar circumstances it has sometimes happened that a boy physically inferior to his companions
has consoled himself by proving his mental prowess--has scored off his failure at cricket by
the taking of prizes, and has revenged himself for a drubbing by writing a lampoon. But even
this last resource was not open to Goldsmith. He was a dull boy; "a stupid, heavy blockhead,"
is Dr. Strean's phrase in summing up the estimate formed of young Goldsmith by his contemporaries
at school. Of course, as soon as he became famous, everybody began to hunt up recollections
of his having said or done this or that, in order to prove that there were signs of the coming
greatness. People began to remember that he had been suspected of scribbling verses, which
he burned. What schoolboy has not done the like? We know how the biographers of great painters
point out to us that their hero early showed the bent of his mind by drawing the figures of
animals on doors and walls with a piece of chalk; as to which it may be observed that, if every
schoolboy who scribbled verses and sketched in chalk on a brick wall, were to grow up a genius,
poems and pictures would be plentiful enough. However, there is the apparently authenticated
anecdote of young Goldsmith's turning the tables on the fiddler at his uncle's dancing-party.
The fiddler, struck by the odd look of the boy who was capering about the room, called out
"Æsop!" whereupon Goldsmith is said to have instantly replied,

    "Our herald hath proclaimed this saying,
    See Æsop dancing and his monkey playing!"

But even if this story be true, it is worth nothing as an augury; for quickness of repartee
was precisely the accomplishment which the adult Goldsmith conspicuously lacked. Put a pen
into his hand, and shut him up in a room: then he was master of the situation--nothing could
be more incisive, polished, and easy than his playful sarcasm. But in society any fool could
get the better of him by a sudden question followed by a horse-laugh. All through his life--even
after he had become one of the most famous of living writers--Goldsmith suffered from want
of self-confidence. He was too anxious to please. In his eager acquiescence, he would blunder
into any trap that was laid for him. A grain or two of the stolid self-sufficiency of the blockheads
who laughed at him would not only have improved his character, but would have considerably
added to the happiness of his life.

As a natural consequence of this timidity, Goldsmith, when opportunity served, assumed airs
of magnificent importance. Every one knows the story of the mistake on which She Stoops to
Conquer is founded. Getting free at last from all the turmoil, and anxieties, and mortifications
of school-life, and returning home on a lent hack, the released schoolboy is feeling very grand
indeed. He is now sixteen, would fain pass for a man, and has a whole golden guinea in his
pocket. And so he takes the journey very leisurely until, getting benighted in a certain village,
he asks the way to the "best house," and is directed by a facetious person to the house of
the squire. The squire by good luck falls in with the joke; and then we have a very pretty
comedy indeed--the impecunious schoolboy playing the part of a fine gentleman on the strength
of his solitary guinea, ordering a bottle of wine after his supper, and inviting his landlord
and his landlord's wife and daughter to join him in the supper-room. The contrast, in She Stoops
to Conquer, between Marlow's embarrassed diffidence on certain occasions and his audacious
effrontery on others, found many a parallel in the incidents of Goldsmith's own life; and it
is not improbable that the writer of the comedy was thinking of some of his own experiences,
when he made Miss Hardcastle say to her timid suitor: "A want of courage upon some occasions
assumes the appearance of ignorance, and betrays us when we most want to excel."

It was, perhaps, just as well that the supper, and bottle of wine, and lodging at Squire Featherston's
had not to be paid for out of the schoolboy's guinea; for young Goldsmith was now on his way
to college, and the funds at the disposal of the Goldsmith family were not over abundant. Goldsmith's
sister having married the son of a well-to do man, her father considered it a point of honour
that she should have a dowry: and in giving her a sum of £400 he so crippled the means of the
family, that Goldsmith had to be sent to college not as a pensioner but as a sizar. It appears
that the young gentleman's pride revolted against this proposal; and that he was won over to
consent only by the persuasions of his uncle Contarine, who himself had been a sizar. So Goldsmith,
now in his eighteenth year, went to Dublin; managed somehow or other--though he was the last
in the list--to pass the necessary examination; and entered upon his college career (1745.)

How he lived, and what he learned, at Trinity College, are both largely matters of conjecture;
the chief features of such record as we have are the various means of raising a little money
to which the poor sizar had to resort; a continual quarrelling with his tutor, an ill-conditioned
brute, who baited Goldsmith and occasionally beat him; and a chance frolic when funds were
forthcoming. It was while he was at Trinity College that his father died; so that Goldsmith
was rendered more than ever dependent on the kindness of his uncle Contarine, who throughout
seems to have taken much interest in his odd, ungainly nephew. A loan from a friend or a visit
to the pawnbroker tided over the severer difficulties; and then from time to time the writing
of street-ballads, for which he got five shillings a-piece at a certain repository, came in
to help. It was a happy-go-lucky, hand-to-mouth sort of existence, involving a good deal of
hardship and humiliation, but having its frolics and gaieties notwithstanding. One of these
was pretty near to putting an end to his collegiate career altogether. He had, smarting under
a public admonition for having been concerned in a riot, taken seriously to his studies and
had competed for a scholarship. He missed the scholarship, but gained an exhibition of the
value of thirty shillings; whereupon he collected a number of friends of both sexes in his
rooms, and proceeded to have high jinks there. In the midst of the dancing and uproar, in comes
his tutor, in such a passion that he knocks Goldsmith down. This insult, received before his
friends, was too much for the unlucky sizar, who, the very next day, sold his books, ran away
from college, and ultimately, after having been on the verge of starvation once or twice, made
his way to Lissoy. Here his brother got hold of him; persuaded him to go back; and the escapade
was condoned somehow. Goldsmith remained at Trinity College until he took his degree (1749.)
He was again lowest in the list; but still he had passed; and he must have learned something.
He was now twenty-one, with all the world before him; and the question was as to how he was
to employ such knowledge as he had acquired.

CHAPTER III.

IDLENESS, AND FOREIGN TRAVEL.

But Goldsmith was not in any hurry to acquire either wealth or fame. He had a happy knack of
enjoying the present hour--especially when there were one or two boon companions with him,
and a pack of cards to be found; and, after his return to his mother's house, he appears to
have entered upon the business of idleness with much philosophical satisfaction. If he was
not quite such an unlettered clown as he has described in Tony Lumpkin, he had at least all
Tony Lumpkin's high spirits and love of joking and idling; and he was surrounded at the ale-house
by just such a company of admirers as used to meet at the famous Three Pigeons. Sometimes he
helped in his brother's school; sometimes he went errands for his mother; occasionally he would
sit and meditatively play the flute--for the day was to be passed somehow; then in the evening
came the assemblage in Conway's inn, with the glass, and the pipe, and the cards, and the uproarious
jest or song. "But Scripture saith an ending to all fine things must be," and the friends of
this jovial young "buckeen" began to tire of his idleness and his recurrent visits. They gave
him hints that he might set about doing something to provide himself with a living; and the
first thing they thought of was that he should go into the Church--perhaps as a sort of purification-house
after George Conway's inn. Accordingly Goldsmith, who appears to have been a most good-natured
and compliant youth, did make application to the Bishop of Elphin. There is some doubt about
the precise reasons which induced the Bishop to decline Goldsmith's application, but at any
rate the Church was denied the aid of the young man's eloquence and erudition. Then he tried
teaching, and through the good offices of his uncle he obtained a tutorship which he held for
a considerable time--long enough, indeed, to enable him to amass a sum of thirty pounds. When
he quarrelled with his patron, and once more "took the world for his pillow," as the Gaelic
stories say, he had this sum in his pocket and was possessed of a good horse.

He started away from Ballymahon, where his mother was now living, with some vague notion of
making his fortune as casual circumstance might direct. The expedition came to a premature
end; and he returned without the money, and on the back of a wretched animal, telling his mother
a cock-and-bull story of the most amusing simplicity. Indeed, if any one is anxious to fill
up this hiatus in Goldsmith's life, the best thing he can do is to discard Goldsmith's suspicious
record of his adventures, and put in its place the faithful record of the adventures of Mr.
Barry Lyndon, when that modest youth left his mother's house and rode to Dublin, with a certain
number of guineas in his pocket. But whether Uncle Contarine believed the story or no, he was
ready to give the young gentleman another chance; and this time it was the legal profession
that was chosen. Goldsmith got fifty pounds from his uncle, and reached Dublin. In a remarkably
brief space of time he had gambled away the fifty pounds, and was on his way back to Ballymahon,
where his mother's reception of him was not very cordial, though his uncle forgave him, and
was once more ready to start him in life. But in what direction? Teaching, the Church, and
the law had lost their attractions for him. Well, this time it was medicine. In fact, any sort
of project was capable of drawing forth the good old uncle's bounty. The funds were again forthcoming;
Goldsmith started for Edinburgh, and now (1752) saw Ireland for the last time.

He lived, and he informed his uncle that he studied, in Edinburgh for a year and a half; at
the end of which time it appeared to him that his knowledge of medicine would be much improved
by foreign travel. There was Albinus, for example, "the great professor of Leyden," as he wrote
to the credulous uncle, from whom he would doubtless learn much. When, having got another twenty
pounds for travelling expenses, he did reach Leyden (1754), he mentioned Gaubius, the chemical
professor. Gaubius is also a good name. That his intercourse with these learned persons, and
the serious nature of his studies, were not incompatible with a little light relaxation in
the way of gambling is not impossible. On one occasion, it is said, he was so lucky that he
came to a fellow student with his pockets full of money; and was induced to resolve never to
play again--a resolution broken about as soon as made. Of course he lost all his winnings,
and more; and had to borrow a trifling sum to get himself out of the place. Then an incident
occurs which is highly characteristic of the better side of Goldsmith's nature. He had just
got this money, and was about to leave Leyden, when, as Mr. Forster writes, "he passed a florist's
garden on his return, and seeing some rare and high-priced flower, which his uncle Contarine,
an enthusiast in such things, had often spoken and been in search of, he ran in without other
thought than of immediate pleasure to his kindest friend, bought a parcel of the roots, and
sent them off to Ireland." He had a guinea in his pocket when he started on the grand tour.

Of this notable period in Goldsmith's life (1755-6) very little is known, though a good deal
has been guessed. A minute record of all the personal adventures that befell the wayfarer as
he trudged from country to country, a diary of the odd humours and fancies that must have occurred
to him in his solitary pilgrimages, would be of quite inestimable value; but even the letters
that Goldsmith wrote home from time to time are lost; while The Traveller consists chiefly
of a series of philosophical reflections on the government of various states, more likely to
have engaged the attention of a Fleet-Street author, living in an atmosphere of books, than
to have occupied the mind of a tramp anxious about his supper and his night's lodging. Boswell
says he "disputed" his way through Europe. It is much more probable that he begged his way
through Europe. The romantic version, which has been made the subject of many a charming picture,
is that he was entertained by the peasantry whom he had delighted with his playing on the flute.
It is quite probable that Goldsmith, whose imagination had been captivated by the story of
how Baron von Holberg had as a young man really passed through France, Germany, and Holland
in this Orpheus-like manner, may have put a flute in his pocket when he left Leyden; but it
is far from safe to assume, as is generally done, that Goldsmith was himself the hero of the
adventures described in Chapter XX. of the Vicar of Wakefield. It is the more to be regretted
that we have no authentic record of these devious wanderings, that by this time Goldsmith had
acquired, as is shown in other letters, a polished, easy, and graceful style, with a very considerable
faculty of humorous observation. Those ingenious letters to his uncle (they usually included
a little hint about money) were, in fact, a trifle too literary both in substance and in form;
we could even now, looking at them with a pardonable curiosity, have spared a little of their
formal antithesis for some more precise information about the writer and his surroundings.

The strangest thing about this strange journey all over Europe was the failure of Goldsmith
to pick up even a common and ordinary acquaintance with the familiar facts of natural history.
The ignorance on this point of the author of the Animated Nature was a constant subject of
jest among Goldsmith's friends. They declared he could not tell the difference between any
two sorts of barndoor fowl until he saw them cooked and on the table. But it may be said prematurely
here that, even when he is wrong as to his facts or his sweeping generalisations, one is inclined
to forgive him on account of the quaint gracefulness and point of his style. When Mr. Burchell
says, "This rule seems to extend even to other animals: the little vermin race are ever treacherous,
cruel, and cowardly, whilst those endowed with strength and power are generous, brave, and
gentle," we scarcely stop to reflect that the merlin, which is not much bigger than a thrush,
has an extraordinary courage and spirit, while the lion, if all stories be true, is, unless
when goaded by hunger, an abject skulker. Elsewhere, indeed, in the Animated Nature, Goldsmith
gives credit to the smaller birds for a good deal of valour, and then goes on to say, with
a charming freedom,--"But their contentions are sometimes of a gentler nature. Two male birds
shall strive in song till, after a long struggle, the loudest shall entirely silence the other.
During these contentions the female sits an attentive silent auditor, and often rewards the
loudest songster with her company during the season." Yet even this description of the battle
of the bards, with the queen of love as arbiter, is scarcely so amusing as his happy-go-lucky
notions with regard to the variability of species. The philosopher, flute in hand, who went
wandering from the canals of Holland to the ice-ribbed falls of the Rhine, may have heard from
time to time that contest between singing-birds which he so imaginatively describes; but it
was clearly the Fleet-Street author, living among books, who arrived at the conclusion that
intermarriage of species is common among small birds and rare among big birds. Quoting some
lines of Addison's which express the belief that birds are a virtuous race--that the nightingale,
for example, does not covet the wife of his neighbour, the blackbird--Goldsmith goes on to
observe,--"But whatever may be the poet's opinion, the probability is against this fidelity
among the smaller tenants of the grove. The great birds are much more true to their species
than these; and, of consequence, the varieties among them are more few. Of the ostrich, the
cassowary, and the eagle, there are but few species; and no arts that man can use could probably
induce them to mix with each other."

What he did bring back from his foreign travels was a medical degree. Where he got it, and
how he got it, are alike matters of pure conjecture; but it is extremely improbable that--whatever
he might have been willing to write home from Padua or Louvain, in order to coax another remittance
from his Irish friends--he would afterwards, in the presence of such men as Johnson, Burke,
and Reynolds, wear sham honours. It is much more probable that, on his finding those supplies
from Ireland running ominously short, the philosophic vagabond determined to prove to his correspondents
that he was really at work somewhere, instead of merely idling away his time, begging or borrowing
the wherewithal to pass him from town to town. That he did see something of the foreign universities
is evident from his own writings; there are touches of description here and there which he
could not well have got from books. With this degree, and with such book-learning and such
knowledge of nature and human nature as he had chosen or managed to pick up during all those
years, he was now called upon to begin life for himself. The Irish supplies stopped altogether.
His letters were left unanswered. And so Goldsmith somehow or other got back to London (February
1, 1756), and had to cast about for some way of earning his daily bread.

CHAPTER IV.

Early Struggles.--Hack-writing.

Here ensued a very dark period in his life. He was alone in London, without friends, without
money, without introductions; his appearance was the reverse of prepossessing; and, even despite
that medical degree and his acquaintance with the learned Albinus and the learned Gaubius,
he had practically nothing of any value to offer for sale in the great labour-market of the
world. How he managed to live at all is a mystery: it is certain that he must have endured
a great deal of want; and one may well sympathise with so gentle and sensitive a creature reduced
to such straits, without inquiring too curiously into the causes of his misfortunes. If, on
the one hand, we cannot accuse society, or Christianity, or the English government of injustice
and cruelty because Goldsmith had gambled away his chances and was now called on to pay the
penalty, on the other hand, we had better, before blaming Goldsmith himself, inquire into the
origin of those defects of character which produced such results. As this would involve an
excursus into the controversy between Necessity and Free-will, probably most people would rather
leave it alone. It may safely be said in any case that, while Goldsmith's faults and follies,
of which he himself had to suffer the consequences, are patent enough, his character on the
whole was distinctly a lovable one. Goldsmith was his own enemy, and everybody else's friend:
that is not a serious indictment, as things go. He was quite well aware of his weaknesses;
and he was also--it may be hinted--aware of the good-nature which he put forward as condonation.
If some foreigner were to ask how it is that so thoroughly a commercial people as the English
are--strict in the acknowledgment and payment of debt--should have always betrayed a sneaking
fondness for the character of the good-humoured scapegrace whose hand is in everybody's pocket,
and who throws away other people's money with the most charming air in the world, Goldsmith
might be pointed to as one of many literary teachers whose own circumstances were not likely
to make them severe censors of the Charles Surfaces, or lenient judges of the Joseph Surfaces
of the world. Be merry while you may; let to-morrow take care of itself; share your last guinea
with any one, even if the poor drones of society--the butcher, and baker, and milkman with
his score--have to suffer; do anything you like, so long as you keep the heart warm. All this
is a delightful philosophy. It has its moments of misery--its periods of reaction--but it has
its moments of high delight. When we are invited to contemplate the "evil destinies of men
of letters," we ought to be shown the flood-tides as well as the ebb-tides. The tavern gaiety;
the brand new coat and lace and sword; the midnight frolics, with jolly companions every one--these,
however brief and intermittent, should not be wholly left out of the picture. Of course it
is very dreadful to hear of poor Boyse lying in bed with nothing but a blanket over him, and
with his arms thrust through two holes in the blanket, so that he could write--perhaps a continuation
of his poem on the Deity. But then we should be shown Boyse when he was spending the money
collected by Dr. Johnson to get the poor scribbler's clothes out of pawn; and we should also
be shown him, with his hands through the holes in the blanket, enjoying the mushrooms and truffles
on which, as a little garniture for "his last scrap of beef," he had just laid out his last
half-guinea.

There were but few truffles--probably there was but little beef--for Goldsmith during this
sombre period. "His threadbare coat, his uncouth figure, and Hibernian dialect caused him to
meet with repeated refusals." But at length he got some employment in a chemist's shop, and
this was a start. Then he tried practising in a small way on his own account in Southwark.
Here he made the acquaintance of a printer's workman; and through him he was engaged as corrector
of the press in the establishment of Mr. Samuel Richardson. Being so near to literature, he
caught the infection; and naturally began with a tragedy. This tragedy was shown to the author
of Clarissa Harlowe; but it only went the way of many similar first inspiritings of the Muse.
Then Goldsmith drifted to Peckham, where we find him (1757) installed as usher at Dr. Milner's
school. Goldsmith as usher has been the object of much sympathy; and he would certainly deserve
it, if we are to assume that his description of an usher's position in the Bee, and in George
Primrose's advice to his cousin, was a full and accurate description of his life at Peckham.
But we cannot believe it. The Milners were exceedingly kind to Goldsmith. It was at the intercession
of young Milner, who had been his fellow-student at Edinburgh, that Goldsmith got the situation,
which at all events kept him out of the reach of immediate want. It was through the Milners
that he was introduced to Griffiths, who gave him a chance of trying a literary career--as
a hack-writer of reviews and so forth. When, having got tired of that, Goldsmith was again
floating vaguely on the waves of chance, where did he find a harbour but in that very school
at Peckham? And we have the direct testimony of the youngest of Dr. Milner's daughters, that
this Irish usher of theirs was a remarkably cheerful, and even facetious person, constantly
playing tricks and practical jokes, amusing the boys by telling stories and by performances
on the flute, living a careless life, and always in advance of his salary. Any beggars, or
group of children, even the very boys who played back practical jokes on him, were welcome
to a share of what small funds he had; and we all know how Mrs. Milner good-naturedly said
one day, "You had better, Mr. Goldsmith, let me keep your money for you, as I do for some of
the young gentlemen;" and how he answered with much simplicity, "In truth, Madam, there is
equal need." With Goldsmith's love of approbation and extreme sensitiveness he no doubt suffered
deeply from many slights, now as at other times; but what we know of his life in the Peckham
school does not incline us to believe that it was an especially miserable period of his existence.
His abundant cheerfulness does not seem to have at any time deserted him; and what with tricks,
and jokes, and playing of the flute, the dull routine of instructing the unruly young gentlemen
at Dr. Milner's was got through somehow.

When Goldsmith left the Peckham school to try hack-writing in Paternoster Row, he was going
further to fare worse. Griffiths the bookseller, when he met Goldsmith at Dr. Milner's dinner-table
and invited him to become a reviewer, was doing a service to the English nation--for it was
in this period of machine-work that Goldsmith discovered that happy faculty of literary expression
that led to the composition of his masterpieces--but he was doing little immediate service
to Goldsmith.

The newly-captured hack was boarded and lodged at Griffiths' house in Paternoster Row (1757);
he was to have a small salary in consideration of remorselessly constant work; and--what was
the hardest condition of all--he was to have his writings revised by Mrs. Griffiths. Mr. Forster
justly remarks that though at last Goldsmith had thus become a man-of-letters, he "had gratified
no passion and attained no object of ambition." He had taken to literature, as so many others
have done, merely as a last resource. And if it is true that literature at first treated Goldsmith
harshly, made him work hard, and gave him comparatively little for what he did, at least it
must be said that his experience was not a singular one. Mr. Forster says that literature was
at that time in a transition state: "The patron was gone, and the public had not come." But
when Goldsmith began to do better than hack-work, he found a public speedily enough. If, as
Lord Macaulay computes, Goldsmith received in the last seven years of his life what was equivalent
to £5,600 of our money, even the villain booksellers cannot be accused of having starved him.
At the outset of his literary career he received no large sums, for he had achieved no reputation;
but he got the market-rate for his work. We have around us at this moment plenty of hacks who
do not earn much more than their board and lodging with a small salary.

For the rest, we have no means of knowing whether Goldsmith got through his work with ease
or with difficulty; but it is obvious, looking over the reviews which he is believed to have
written for Griffiths' magazine, that he readily acquired the professional critic's airs of
superiority, along with a few tricks of the trade, no doubt taught him by Griffiths. Several
of these reviews, for example, are merely epitomes of the contents of the books reviewed, with
some vague suggestion that the writer might, if he had been less careful, have done worse,
and, if he had been more careful, might have done better. Who does not remember how the philosophic
vagabond was taught to become a cognoscento? It is amusing to observe the different estimates
formed of the function of criticism by Goldsmith the critic, and by Goldsmith the author. Goldsmith,
sitting at Griffiths' desk, naturally magnifies his office, and announces his opinion that
"to direct our taste, and conduct the poet up to perfection, has ever been the true critic's
province." But Goldsmith the author, when he comes to inquire into the existing state of Polite
Learning in Europe, finds in criticism not a help but a danger. It is "the natural destroyer
of polite learning." And again, in the Citizen of the World, he exclaims against the pretensions
of the critic. "If any choose to be critics, it is but saying they are critics; and from that
time forward they become invested with full power and authority over every caitiff who aims
at their instruction or entertainment."

This at least may be said, that in these early essays contributed to the Monthly Review there
is much more of Goldsmith the critic than of Goldsmith the author. They are somewhat laboured
performances. They are almost devoid of the sly and delicate humour that afterwards marked
Goldsmith's best prose work. We find throughout his trick of antithesis; but here it is forced
and formal, whereas afterwards he lent to this habit of writing the subtle surprise of epigram.
They have the true manner of authority, nevertheless. He says of Home's Douglas--"Those parts
of nature, and that rural simplicity with which the author was, perhaps, best acquainted, are
not unhappily described; and hence we are led to conjecture, that a more universal knowledge
of nature will probably increase his powers of description." If the author had written otherwise,
he would have written differently; had he known more, he would not have been so ignorant; the
tragedy is a tragedy, but why did not the author make it a comedy?--this sort of criticism
has been heard of even in our own day. However, Goldsmith pounded away at his newly-found work,
under the eye of the exacting bookseller and his learned wife. We find him dealing with Scandinavian
(here called Celtic) mythology, though he does not adventure on much comment of his own; then
he engages Smollett's History of England, but mostly in the way of extract; anon we find him
reviewing A Journal of Eight Days' Journey, by Jonas Hanway, of whom Johnson said that he made
some reputation by travelling abroad, and lost it all by travelling at home. Then again we
find him writing a disquisition on Some Enquiries concerning the First Inhabitants, Language,
Religion, Learning, and Letters of Europe, by a Mr. Wise, who, along with his critic, appears
to have got into hopeless confusion in believing Basque and Armorican to be the remains of
the same ancient language. The last phrase of a note appended to this review by Goldsmith probably
indicates his own humble estimate of his work at this time. "It is more our business," he says,
"to exhibit the opinions of the learned than to controvert them." In fact he was employed to
boil down books for people who did not wish to spend more on literature than the price of a
magazine. Though he was new to the trade, it is probable he did it as well as any other.

At the end of five months, Goldsmith and Griffiths quarrelled and separated. Griffiths said
Goldsmith was idle; Goldsmith said Griffiths was impertinent; probably the editorial supervision
exercised by Mrs. Griffiths had something to do with the dire contention. From Paternoster
Row Goldsmith removed to a garret in Fleet Street; had his letters addressed to a coffee-house;
and apparently supported himself by further hack-work, his connection with Griffiths not being
quite severed. Then he drifted back to Peckham again; and was once more installed as usher,
Dr. Milner being in especial want of an assistant at this time. Goldsmith's lingering about
the gates of literature had not inspired him with any great ambition to enter the enchanted
land. But at the same time he thought he saw in literature a means by which a little ready
money might be made, in order to help him on to something more definite and substantial; and
this goal was now put before him by Dr. Milner, in the shape of a medical appointment on the
Coromandel coast. It was in the hope of obtaining this appointment, that he set about composing
that Enquiry into the Present State of Polite Learning in Europe, which is now interesting
to us as the first of his more ambitious works. As the book grew under his hands, he began
to cast about for subscribers; and from the Fleet-Street coffee-house--he had again left the
Peckham school--he addressed to his friends and relatives a series of letters of the most charming
humour, which might have drawn subscriptions from a millstone. To his brother-in-law, Mr. Hodson,
he sent a glowing account of the great fortune in store for him on the Coromandel coast. "The
salary is but trifling," he writes, "namely £100 per annum, but the other advantages, if a
person be prudent, are considerable. The practice of the place, if I am rightly informed, generally
amounts to not less than £1,000 per annum, for which the appointed physician has an exclusive
privilege. This, with the advantages resulting from trade, and the high interest which money
bears, viz. 20 per cent., are the inducements which persuade me to undergo the fatigues of
sea, the dangers of war, and the still greater dangers of the climate; which induce me to leave
a place where I am every day gaining friends and esteem, and where I might enjoy all the conveniences
of life."

The surprising part of this episode in Goldsmith's life is that he did really receive the appointment;
in fact he was called upon to pay £10 for the appointment-warrant. In this emergency he went
to the proprietor of the Critical Review, the rival of the Monthly, and obtained some money
for certain anonymous work which need not be mentioned in detail here. He also moved into another
garret, this time in Green-Arbour Court, Fleet Street, in a wilderness of slums. The Coromandel
project, however, on which so many hopes had been built, fell through. No explanation of the
collapse could be got from either Goldsmith himself, or from Dr. Milner. Mr. Forster suggests
that Goldsmith's inability to raise money for his outfit may have been made the excuse for
transferring the appointment to another; and that is probable enough; but it is also probable
that the need for such an excuse was based on the discovery that Goldsmith was not properly
qualified for the post. And this seems the more likely, that Goldsmith immediately afterwards
resolved to challenge examination at Surgeons' Hall. He undertook to write four articles for
the Monthly Review; Griffiths became surety to a tailor for a fine suit of clothes; and thus
equipped, Goldsmith presented himself at Surgeons' Hall. He only wanted to be passed as hospital
mate; but even that modest ambition was unfulfilled. He was found not qualified; and returned,
with his fine clothes, to his Fleet-Street den. He was now thirty years of age (1758); and
had found no definite occupation in the world.

CHAPTER V.

BEGINNING OF AUTHORSHIP.--THE BEE.

During the period that now ensued, and amid much quarrelling with Griffiths and hack-writing
for the Critical Review, Goldsmith managed to get his Enquiry into the Present State of Polite
Learning in Europe completed; and it is from the publication of that work, on the 2nd of April,
1759, that we may date the beginning of Goldsmith's career as an author. The book was published
anonymously; but Goldsmith was not at all anxious to disclaim the parentage of his first-born;
and in Grub Street and its environs, at least, the authorship of the book was no secret. Moreover
there was that in it which was likely to provoke the literary tribe to plenty of fierce talking.
The Enquiry is neither more nor less than an endeavour to prove that criticism has in all ages
been the deadly enemy of art and literature; coupled with an appeal to authors to draw their
inspiration from nature rather than from books, and varied here and there by a gentle sigh
over the loss of that patronage, in the sunshine of which men of genius were wont to bask.
Goldsmith, not having been an author himself, could not have suffered much at the hands of
the critics; so that it is not to be supposed that personal feeling dictated this fierce onslaught
on the whole tribe of critics, compilers, and commentators. They are represented to us as rank
weeds, growing up to choke all manifestations of true art. "Ancient learning," we are told
at the outset, "may be distinguished into three periods: its commencement, or the age of poets;
its maturity, or the age of philosophers; and its decline, or the age of critics." Then our
guide carries us into the dark ages; and, with lantern in hand, shows us the creatures swarming
there in the sluggish pools--"commentators, compilers, polemic divines, and intricate metaphysicians."
We come to Italy: look at the affectations with which the Virtuosi and Filosofi have enchained
the free spirit of poetry. "Poetry is no longer among them an imitation of what we see, but
of what a visionary might wish. The zephyr breathes the most exquisite perfume; the trees wear
eternal verdure; fawns, and dryads, and hamadryads, stand ready to fan the sultry shepherdess,
who has forgot, indeed, the prettiness with which Guarini's shepherdesses have been reproached,
but is so simple and innocent as often to have no meaning.

In Germany the ponderous volumes of the commentators next come in for animadversion; and here
we find an epigram, the quaint simplicity of which is peculiarly characteristic of Goldsmith.
"Were angels to write books," he remarks, "they never would write folios." But Germany gets
credit for the money spent by her potentates on learned institutions; and it is perhaps England
that is delicately hinted at in these words: "Had the fourth part of the immense sum above-mentioned
been given in proper rewards to genius, in some neighbouring countries, it would have rendered
the name of the donor immortal, and added to the real interests of society." Indeed, when we
come to England, we find that men of letters are in a bad way, owing to the prevalence of critics,
the tyranny of booksellers, and the absence of patrons. His reputation never spreads in a wider
circle than that of the trade, who generally value him, not for the fineness of his compositions,
but the quantity he works off in a given time.

"A long habit of writing for bread thus turns the ambition of every author at last into avarice.
He finds that he has written many years, that the public are scarcely acquainted even with
his name; he despairs of applause, and turns to profit, which invites him. He finds that money
procures all those advantages, that respect, and that ease which he vainly expected from fame.
Thus the man who, under the protection of the great, might have done honour to humanity, when
only patronized by the bookseller, becomes a thing little superior to the fellow who works
at the press."

Nor was he afraid to attack the critics of his own day, though he knew that the two Reviews
for which he had recently been writing would have something to say about his own Enquiry. The
man who has any good-nature in his disposition must, however, be somewhat displeased to see
distinguished reputations often the sport of ignorance,--to see, by one false pleasantry, the
future peace of a worthy man's life disturbed, and this only because he has unsuccessfully
attempted to instruct or amuse us. Though ill-nature is far from being wit, yet it is generally
laughed at as such. The critic enjoys the triumph, and ascribes to his parts what is only due
to his effrontery. I fire with indignation, when I see persons wholly destitute of education
and genius indent to the press, and thus turn book-makers, adding to the sin of criticism the
sin of ignorance also; whose trade is a bad one, and who are bad workmen in the trade." Indeed
there was a good deal of random hitting in the Enquiry, which was sure to provoke resentment.
Why, for example, should he have gone out of his way to insult the highly respectable class
of people who excel in mathematical studies? "This seems a science," he observes, "to which
the meanest intellects are equal. I forget who it is that says 'All men might understand mathematics
if they would.'" There was also in the first edition of the Enquiry a somewhat ungenerous attack
on stage-managers, actors, actresses, and theatrical things in general; but this was afterwards
wisely excised. It is not to be wondered at that, on the whole, the Enquiry should have been
severely handled in certain quarters. Smollett, who reviewed it in the Critical Review, appears
to have kept his temper pretty well for a Scotchman; but Kenrick, a hack employed by Griffiths
to maltreat the book in the Monthly Review, flourished his bludgeon in a brave manner. The
coarse personalities and malevolent insinuations of this bully no doubt hurt Goldsmith considerably;
but, as we look at them now, they are only remarkable for their dulness. If Griffiths had had
another Goldsmith to reply to Goldsmith, the retort would have been better worth reading: one
can imagine the playful sarcasm that would have been dealt out to this new writer, who, in
the very act of protesting against criticism, proclaimed himself a critic. But Goldsmiths are
not always to be had when wanted; while Kenricks can be bought at any moment for a guinea or
two a head.

Goldsmith had not chosen literature as the occupation of his life; he had only fallen back
on it, when other projects failed. But it is quite possible that now, as he began to take up
some slight position as an author, the old ambition of distinguishing himself--which had flickered
before his imagination from time to time--began to enter into his calculations along with the
more pressing business of earning a livelihood. And he was soon to have an opportunity of appealing
to a wider public than could have been expected for that erudite treatise on the arts of Europe.
Mr. Wilkie, a bookseller in St. Paul's Churchyard, proposed to start a weekly magazine, price
threepence, to contain essays, short stories, letters on the topics of the day, and so forth,
more or less after the manner of the Spectator. He asked Goldsmith to become sole contributor.
Here, indeed, was a very good opening; for, although there were many magazines in the field,
the public had just then a fancy for literature in small doses; while Goldsmith, in entering
into the competition, would not be hampered by the dulness of collaborateurs. He closed with
Wilkie's offer; and on the 6th of October, 1759, appeared the first number of the Bee.

For us now there is a curious autobiographical interest in the opening sentences of the first
number; but surely even the public of the day must have imagined that the new writer who was
now addressing them, was not to be confounded with the common herd of magazine-hacks. What
could be more delightful than this odd mixture of modesty, humour, and an anxious desire to
please?--"There is not, perhaps, a more whimsically dismal figure in nature than a man of real
modesty, who assumes an air of impudence--who, while his heart beats with anxiety, studies
ease and affects good-humour. In this situation, however, a periodical writer often finds himself
upon his first attempt to address the public in form. All his power of pleasing is damped by
solicitude, and his cheerfulness dashed with apprehension. Impressed with the terrors of the
tribunal before which he is going to appear, his natural humour turns to pertness, and for
real wit he is obliged to substitute vivacity. His first publication draws a crowd; they part
dissatisfied; and the author, never more to be indulged with a favourable hearing, is left
to condemn the indelicacy of his own address or their want of discernment. For my part, as
I was never distinguished for address, and have often even blundered in making my bow, such
bodings as these had like to have totally repressed my ambition. I was at a loss whether to
give the public specious promises, or give none; whether to be merry or sad on this solemn
occasion. If I should decline all merit, it was too probable the hasty reader might have taken
me at my word. If, on the other hand, like labourers in the magazine trade, I had, with modest
impudence, humbly presumed to promise an epitome of all the good things that ever were said
or written, this might have disgusted those readers I most desire to please. Had I been merry,
I might have been censured as vastly low; and had I been sorrowful, I might have been left
to mourn in solitude and silence; in short, whichever way I turned, nothing presented but prospects
of terror, despair, chandlers' shops, and waste paper."

And it is just possible that if Goldsmith had kept to this vein of familiar causerie, the public
might in time have been attracted by its quaintness. But no doubt Mr. Wilkie would have stared
aghast; and so we find Goldsmith, as soon as his introductory bow is made, setting seriously
about the business of magazine-making. Very soon, however, both Mr. Wilkie and his editor perceived
that the public had not been taken by their venture. The chief cause of the failure, as it
appears to any one who looks over the magazine now, would seem to be the lack of any definite
purpose. There was no marked feature to arrest public attention, while many things were discarded
on which the popularity of other periodicals had been based. There was no scandal to appeal
to the key-hole and back-door element in human nature; there were no libels and gross personalities
to delight the mean and envious; there were no fine airs of fashion to charm milliners anxious
to know how the great talked, and posed, and dressed; and there was no solemn and pompous erudition
to impress the minds of those serious and sensible people who buy literature as they buy butter,
by its weight. At the beginning of No. IV. he admits that the new magazine has not been a success;
and, in doing so, returns to that vein of whimsical, personal humour with which he had started:
"Were I to measure the merit of my present undertaking by its success or the rapidity of its
sale, I might be led to form conclusions by no means favourable to the pride of an author.
Should I estimate my fame by its extent, every newspaper and magazine would leave me far behind.
Their fame is diffused in a very wide circle--that of some as far as Islington, and some yet
farther still; while mine, I sincerely believe, has hardly travelled beyond the sound of Bow
Bell; and, while the works of others fly like unpinioned swans, I find my own move as heavily
as a new-plucked goose. Still, however, I have as much pride as they who have ten times as
many readers. It is impossible to repeat all the agreeable delusions in which a disappointed
author is apt to find comfort. I conclude, that what my reputation wants in extent is made
up by its solidity. Minus juvat gloria lata quam magna. I have great satisfaction in considering
the delicacy and discernment of those readers I have, and in ascribing my want of popularity
to the ignorance or inattention of those I have not. All the world may forsake an author, but
vanity will never forsake him. Yet, notwithstanding so sincere a confession, I was once induced
to show my indignation against the public, by discontinuing my endeavours to please; and was
bravely resolved, like Raleigh, to vex them by burning my manuscript in a passion.

Goldsmith was certainly more at home in this sort of writing, than in gravely lecturing people
against the vice of gambling; in warning tradesmen how ill it became them to be seen at races;
in demonstrating that justice is a higher virtue than generosity; and in proving that the avaricious
are the true benefactors of society. But even as he confesses the failure of his new magazine,
he seems determined to show the public what sort of writer this is, whom as yet they have not
regarded too favourably. It is in No. IV. of the Bee that the famous City Night Piece occurs.
No doubt that strange little fragment of description was the result of some sudden and aimless
fancy, striking the occupant of the lonely garret in the middle of the night. The present tense,
which he seldom used--and the abuse of which is one of the detestable vices of modern literature--adds
to the mysterious solemnity of the recital:--

"The clock has just struck two, the expiring taper rises and sinks in the socket, the watchman
forgets the hour in slumber, the laborious and the happy are at rest, and nothing wakes but
meditation, guilt, revelry, and despair. The drunkard once more fills the destroying bowl,
the robber walks his midnight round, and the suicide lifts his guilty arm against his own sacred
person.

"Let me no longer waste the night over the page of antiquity or the sallies of contemporary
genius, but pursue the solitary walk, where Vanity, ever changing, but a few hours past walked
before me--where she kept up the pageant, and now, like a froward child, seems hushed with
her own importunities.

"What a gloom hangs all around! The dying lamp feebly emits a yellow gleam; no sound is heard
but of the chiming clock, or the distant watch-dog. All the bustle of human pride is forgotten;
an hour like this may well display the emptiness of human vanity.

"There will come a time, when this temporary solitude may be made continual, and the city itself,
like its inhabitants, fade away, and leave a desert in its room.

"What cities, as great as this, have once triumphed in existence, had their victories as great,
joy as just and as unbounded; and, with short-sighted presumption, promised themselves immortality!
Posterity can hardly trace the situation of some; the sorrowful traveller wanders over the
awful ruins of others; and, as he beholds, he learns wisdom, and feels the transience of every
sublunary possession.

"'Here,' he cries, 'stood their citadel, now grown over with weeds; there their senate-house,
but now the haunt of every noxious reptile; temples and theatres stood here, now only an undistinguished
heap of ruin. They are fallen, for luxury and avarice first made them feeble. The rewards of
the state were conferred on amusing, and not on useful, members of society. Their riches and
opulence invited the invaders, who, though at first repulsed, returned again, conquered by
perseverance, and at last swept the defendants into undistinguished destruction.'"

CHAPTER VI.

PERSONAL TRAITS.

The foregoing extracts will sufficiently show what were the chief characteristics of Goldsmith's
writing at this time--the grace and ease of style, a gentle and sometimes pathetic thoughtfulness,
and, above all, when he speaks in the first person, a delightful vein of humorous self-disclosure.
Moreover, these qualities, if they were not immediately profitable to the booksellers, were
beginning to gain for him the recognition of some of the well-known men of the day. Percy,
afterwards Bishop of Dromore, had made his way to the miserable garret of the poor author.
Smollett, whose novels Goldsmith preferred to his History, was anxious to secure his services
as a contributor to the forthcoming British Magazine. Burke had spoken of the pleasure given
him by Goldsmith's review of the Enquiry into the Origin of our Ideas of the Sublime and Beautiful.
But, to crown all, the great Cham himself sought out this obscure author, who had on several
occasions spoken with reverence and admiration of his works; and so began what is perhaps the
most interesting literary friendship on record. At what precise date Johnson first made Goldsmith's
acquaintance, is not known; Mr. Forster is right in assuming that they had met before the supper
in Wine-Office Court, at which Mr. Percy was present. It is a thousand pities that Boswell
had not by this time made his appearance in London. Johnson, Goldsmith, and all the rest of
them are only ghosts until the pertinacious young laird of Auchinleck comes on the scene to
give them colour, and life, and form. It is odd enough that the very first remarks of Goldsmith's
which Boswell jotted down in his notebook, should refer to Johnson's systematic kindness towards
the poor and wretched.

For the rest, Boswell was not well-disposed towards Goldsmith, whom he regarded with a jealousy
equal to his admiration of Johnson; but it is probable that his description of the personal
appearance of the awkward and ungainly Irishman is in the main correct. And here also it may
be said that Boswell's love of truth and accuracy compelled him to make this admission: "It
has been generally circulated and believed that he (Goldsmith) was a mere fool in conversation;
but, in truth, this has been greatly exaggerated." On this exaggeration--seeing that the contributor
to the British Magazine and the Public Ledger was now becoming better known among his fellow
authors--a word or two may fitly be said here. It pleased Goldsmith's contemporaries, who were
not all of them celebrated for their ready wit, to regard him as a hopeless and incurable fool,
who by some strange chance could produce literature, the merits of which he could not himself
understand. To Horace Walpole we owe the phrase which describes Goldsmith as an "inspired idiot."
Innumerable stories are told of Goldsmith's blunders; of his forced attempts to shine in conversation;
of poor Poll talking nonsense, when all the world was wondering at the beauty of his writing.
In one case we are told he was content to admit, when dictated to, that this, and not that,
was what he really had meant in a particular phrase. Now there can be no question that Goldsmith,
conscious of his pitted face, his brogue, and his ungainly figure, was exceedingly nervous
and sensitive in society, and was anxious, as such people mostly are, to cover his shyness
by an appearance of ease, if not even of swagger; and there can be as little question that
he occasionally did and said very awkward and blundering things. But our Japanese friend, whom
we mentioned in our opening pages, looking through the record that is preserved to us of those
blunders which are supposed to be most conclusive as to this aspect of Goldsmith's character,
would certainly stare. "Good heavens," he would cry, "did men ever live who were so thick-headed
as not to see the humour of this or that 'blunder'; or were they so beset with the notion that
Goldsmith was only a fool, that they must needs be blind?" Take one well-known instance. He
goes to France with Mrs. Horneck and her two daughters, the latter very handsome young ladies.
At Lille the two girls and Goldsmith are standing at the window of the hotel, overlooking the
square in which are some soldiers; and naturally the beautiful young Englishwomen attract some
attention. Thereupon Goldsmith turns indignantly away, remarking that elsewhere he also has
his admirers. Now what surgical instrument was needed to get this harmless little joke into
any sane person's head? Boswell may perhaps be pardoned for pretending to take the incident
au sérieux; for as has just been said, in his profound adoration of Johnson, he was devoured
by jealousy of Goldsmith; but that any other mortal should have failed to see what was meant
by this little bit of humorous flattery is almost incredible. No wonder that one of the sisters
afterwards referring to this "playful jest," should have expressed her astonishment at finding
it put down as a proof of Goldsmith's envious disposition. But even after that disclaimer,
we find Mr. Croker, as quoted by Mr. Forster, solemnly doubting "whether the vexation so seriously
exhibited by Goldsmith was real or assumed"!

Of course this is an extreme case; but there are others very similar. "He affected," says Hawkins,
"Johnson's style and manner of conversation, and, when he had uttered, as he often would, a
laboured sentence, so tumid as to be scarce intelligible, would ask if that was not truly Johnsonian?"
Is it not truly dismal to find such an utterance coming from a presumably reasonable human
being? It is not to be wondered at that Goldsmith grew shy--and in some cases had to ward off
the acquaintance of certain of his neighbours as being too intrusive--if he ran the risk of
having his odd and grave humours so densely mistranslated. The fact is this, that Goldsmith
was possessed of a very subtle quality of humour, which is at all times rare, but which is
perhaps more frequently to be found in Irishmen than among other folks. It consists in the
satire of the pretence and pomposities of others by means of a sort of exaggerated and playful
self-depreciation. It is a most delicate and most delightful form of humour; but it is very
apt to be misconstrued by the dull. Who can doubt that Goldsmith was good-naturedly laughing
at himself, his own plain face, his vanity, and his blunders, when he professed to be jealous
of the admiration excited by the Miss Hornecks; when he gravely drew attention to the splendid
colours of his coat; or when he no less gravely informed a company of his friends that he had
heard a very good story, but would not repeat it, because they would be sure to miss the point
of it? But here, no doubt, he remembers that he is addressing the world at large, which contains
many foolish persons; and so, that the delicate raillery may not be mistaken, he immediately
adds, "All the world may forsake an author, but vanity will never forsake him." That he expected
a quicker apprehension on the part of his intimates and acquaintances, and that he was frequently
disappointed, seems pretty clear from those very stories of his "blunders." We may reasonably
suspect, at all events, that Goldsmith was not quite so much of a fool as he looked; and it
is far from improbable that when the ungainly Irishman was called in to make sport for the
Philistines--and there were a good many Philistines in those days, if all stories be true--and
when they imagined they had put him out of countenance, he was really standing aghast, and
wondering how it could have pleased Providence to create such helpless stupidity.

CHAPTER VII.

The Citizen of the World.--Beau Nash.

Meanwhile, to return to his literary work, the Citizen of the World had grown out of his contributions
to the Public Ledger, a daily newspaper started by Mr. Newbery, another bookseller in St. Paul's
Churchyard. Goldsmith was engaged to write for this paper two letters a week at a guinea a-piece;
and these letters were, after a short time (1760), written in the character of a Chinese who
had come to study European civilisation. It may be noted that Goldsmith had in the Monthly
Review, in mentioning Voltaire's memoirs of French writers, quoted a passage about Montesquieu's
Lettres Persanes as follows: "It is written in imitation of the Siamese Letters of Du Freny
and of the Turkish Spy; but it is an imitation which shows what the originals should have been.
The success their works met with was, for the most part, owing to the foreign air of their
performances; the success of the Persian Letters arose from the delicacy of their satire. That
satire which in the mouth of an Asiatic is poignant, would lose all its force when coming from
an European." And it must certainly be said that the charm of the strictures of the Citizen
of the World lies wholly in their delicate satire, and not at all in any foreign air which
the author may have tried to lend to these performances. The disguise is very apparent. In
those garrulous, vivacious, whimsical, and sometimes serious papers, Lien Chi Altangi, writing
to Fum Hoam in Pekin, does not so much describe the aspects of European civilisation which
would naturally surprise a Chinese, as he expresses the dissatisfaction of a European with
certain phases of the civilisation visible everywhere around him. It is not a Chinaman, but
a Fleet-Street author by profession, who resents the competition of noble amateurs whose works--otherwise
bitter pills enough--are gilded by their titles:--"A nobleman has but to take a pen, ink, and
paper, write away through three large volumes, and then sign his name to the title-page; though
the whole might have been before more disgusting than his own rent-roll, yet signing his name
and title gives value to the deed, title being alone equivalent to taste, imagination, and
genius. As soon as a piece, therefore, is published, the first questions are--Who is the author?
Does he keep a coach? Where lies his estate? What sort of a table does he keep? If he happens
to be poor and unqualified for such a scrutiny, he and his works sink into irremediable obscurity,
and too late he finds, that having fed upon turtle is a more ready way to fame than having
digested Tully. The poor devil against whom fashion has set its face vainly alleges that he
has been bred in every part of Europe where knowledge was to be sold; that he has grown pale
in the study of nature and himself. His works may please upon the perusal, but his pretensions
to fame are entirely disregarded. He is treated like a fiddler, whose music, though liked,
is not much praised, because he lives by it; while a gentleman performer, though the most wretched
scraper alive, throws the audience into raptures. The fiddler, indeed, may in such a case console
himself by thinking, that while the other goes off with all the praise, he runs away with all
the money. But here the parallel drops; for while the nobleman triumphs in unmerited applause,
the author by profession steals off with--nothing."

At the same time it must be allowed that the utterance of these strictures through the mouth
of a Chinese admits of a certain naïveté, which on occasion heightens the sarcasm. Lien Chi
accompanies the Man in Black to a theatre to see an English play. 'To what purpose,' cried
I, 'does this unmeaning figure make his appearance? is he a part of the plot?'--'Unmeaning
do you call him?' replied my friend in black; 'this is one of the most important characters
of the whole play; nothing pleases the people more than seeing a straw balanced: there is a
great deal of meaning in a straw: there is something suited to every apprehension in the sight;
and a fellow possessed of talents like these is sure of making his fortune.' The third act
now began with an actor who came to inform us that he was the villain of the play, and intended
to show strange things before all was over. He was joined by another who seemed as much disposed
for mischief as he; their intrigues continued through this whole division. 'If that be a villain,'
said I, 'he must be a very stupid one to tell his secrets without being asked; such soliloquies
of late are never admitted in China.' The noise of clapping interrupted me once more; a child
six years old was learning to dance on the stage, which gave the ladies and mandarins infinite
satisfaction. 'I am sorry,' said I, 'to see the pretty creature so early learning so bad a
trade; dancing being, I presume, as contemptible here as in China.'--'Quite the reverse,' interrupted
my companion; 'dancing is a very reputable and genteel employment here; men have a greater
chance for encouragement from the merit of their heels than their heads. One who jumps up and
nourishes his toes three times before he comes to the ground may have three hundred a year:
he who flourishes them four times, gets four hundred; but he who arrives at five is inestimable,
and may demand what salary he thinks proper. The female dancers, too, are valued for this sort
of jumping and crossing; and it is a cant word amongst them, that she deserves most who shows
highest. But the fourth act is begun; let us be attentive.'"

The Man in Black here mentioned is one of the notable features of this series of papers. The
mysterious person whose acquaintance the Chinaman made in Westminster Abbey, and who concealed
such a wonderful goodness of heart under a rough and forbidding exterior, is a charming character
indeed; and it is impossible to praise too highly the vein of subtle sarcasm in which he preaches
worldly wisdom. But to assume that any part of his history which he disclosed to the Chinaman
was a piece of autobiographical writing on the part of Goldsmith, is a very hazardous thing.
A writer of fiction must necessarily use such materials as have come within his own experience;
and Goldsmith's experience--or his use of those materials--was extremely limited: witness how
often a pet fancy, like his remembrance of Johnny Armstrong's Last Good Night, is repeated.
"That of these simple elements," writes Professor Masson, in his Memoir of Goldsmith, prefixed
to an edition of his works, "he made so many charming combinations, really differing from each
other, and all, though suggested by fact, yet hung so sweetly in an ideal air, proved what
an artist he was, and was better than much that is commonly called invention. In short, if
there is a sameness of effect in Goldsmith's writings, it is because they consist of poetry
and truth, humour and pathos, from his own life, and the supply from such a life as his was
not inexhaustible."

The question of invention is easily disposed of. Any child can invent a world transcending
human experience by the simple combination of ideas which are in themselves incongruous--a
world in which the horses have each five feet, in which the grass is blue and the sky green,
in which seas are balanced on the peaks of mountains. The result is unbelievable and worthless.
But the writer of imaginative literature uses his own experiences and the experiences of others,
so that his combination of ideas in themselves compatible shall appear so natural and believable
that the reader--although these incidents and characters never did actually exist--is as much
interested in them as if they had existed. The mischief of it is that the reader sometimes
thinks himself very clever, and, recognising a little bit of the story as having happened to
the author, jumps to the conclusion that such and such a passage is necessarily autobiographical.
Hence it is that Goldsmith has been hastily identified with the Philosophic Vagabond in the
Vicar of Wakefield, and with the Man in Black in the Citizen of the World. That he may have
used certain experiences in the one, and that he may perhaps have given in the other a sort
of fancy sketch of a person suggested by some trait in his own character, is possible enough;
but further assertion of likeness is impossible. That the Man in Black had one of Goldsmith's
little weaknesses is obvious enough: we find him just a trifle too conscious of his own kindliness
and generosity. The Vicar of Wakefield himself is not without a spice of this amiable vanity.

The Man in Black, in any case, is a delightful character. We detect the warm and generous nature
even in his pretence of having acquired worldly wisdom: "I now therefore pursued a course of
uninterrupted frugality, seldom wanted a dinner, and was consequently invited to twenty. I
soon began to get the character of a saving hunks that had money, and insensibly grew into
esteem. Neighbours have asked my advice in the disposal of their daughters; and I have always
taken care not to give any. I have contracted a friendship with an alderman, only by observing,
that if we take a farthing from a thousand pounds it will be a thousand pounds no longer. I
have been invited to a pawnbroker's table, by pretending to hate gravy; and am now actually
upon treaty of marriage with a rich widow, for only having observed that the bread was rising.
If ever I am asked a question, whether I know it or not, instead of answering, I only smile
and look wise. If a charity is proposed I go about with the hat, but put nothing in myself.
If a wretch solicits my pity, I observe that the world is filled with impostors, and take a
certain method of not being deceived by never relieving. In short, I now find the truest way
of finding esteem, even from the indigent, is to give away nothing, and thus have much in our
power to give." This is a very clever piece of writing, whether it is in strict accordance
with the character of the Man in Black, or not. But there is in these Public Ledger papers
another sketch of character, which is not only consistent in itself, and in every way admirable,
but is of still further interest to us when we remember that at this time the various personages
in the Vicar of Wakefield were no doubt gradually assuming definite form in Goldsmith's mind.
It is in the figure of Mr. Tibbs, introduced apparently at haphazard, but at once taking possession
of us by its quaint relief, that we find Goldsmith showing a firmer hand in character-drawing.
With a few happy dramatic touches Mr. Tibbs starts into life; he speaks for himself; he becomes
one of the people whom we know. And yet, with this concise and sharp portraiture of a human
being, look at the graceful, almost garrulous, ease of the style:--

     "Our pursuer soon came up and joined us with all the
     familiarity of an old acquaintance. 'My dear Drybone,' cries
     he, shaking my friend's hand, 'where have you been hiding
     this half a century? Positively I had fancied you were gone
     to cultivate matrimony and your estate in the country.'
     During the reply I had an opportunity of surveying the
     appearance of our new companion: his hat was pinched up with
     peculiar smartness; his looks were pale, thin, and sharp;
     round his neck he wore a broad black riband, and in his
     bosom a buckle studded with glass; his coat was trimmed with
     tarnished twist; he wore by his side a sword with a black
     hilt; and his stockings of silk, though newly washed, were
     grown yellow by long service. I was so much engaged with the
     peculiarity of his dress, that I attended only to the latter
     part of my friend's reply, in which he complimented Mr.
     Tibbs on the taste of his clothes and the bloom in his
     countenance. 'Pshaw, pshaw, Will,' cried the figure, 'no
     more of that, if you love me: you know I hate flattery,--on
     my soul I do; and yet, to be sure, an intimacy with the
     great will improve one's appearance, and a course of venison
     will fatten; and yet, faith, I despise the great as much as
     you do; but there are a great many damn'd honest fellows
     among them, and we must not quarrel with one half, because
     the other wants weeding. If they were all such as my Lord
     Mudler, one of the most good-natured creatures that ever
     squeezed a lemon, I should myself be among the number of
     their admirers. I was yesterday to dine at the Duchess of
     Piccadilly's. My lord was there. "Ned," says he to me,
     "Ned," says he, "I'll hold gold to silver, I can tell you
     where you were poaching last night." "Poaching, my lord?"
     says I: "faith, you have missed already; for I staid at home
     and let the girls poach for me. That's my way: I take a fine
     woman as some animals do their prey--stand still, and,
     swoop, they fall into my mouth."' 'Ah, Tibbs, thou art a
     happy fellow,' cried my companion, with looks of infinite
     pity; 'I hope your fortune is as much improved as your
     understanding, in such company?' 'Improved!' replied the
     other: 'you shall know,--but let it go no farther--a great
     secret--five hundred a year to begin with--my lord's word of
     honour for it. His lordship took me down in his own chariot
     yesterday, and we had a tête-à-tête dinner in the country,
     where we talked of nothing else.'--'I fancy you forget,
     sir,' cried I; 'you told us but this moment of your dining
     yesterday in town.'--'Did I say so?' replied he, coolly; 'to
     be sure, if I said so, it was so. Dined in town! egad, now I
     do remember, I did dine in town; but I dined in the country
     too; for you must know, my boys, I ate two dinners. By the
     bye, I am grown as nice as the devil in my eating. I'll tell
     you a pleasant affair about that: we were a select party of
     us to dine at Lady Grogram's,--an affected piece, but let it
     go no farther--a secret.--Well, there happened to be no
     asafoetida in the sauce to a turkey, upon which, says I,
     I'll hold a thousand guineas, and say done, first,
     that--But, dear Drybone, you are an honest creature; lend me
     half-a-crown for a minute or two, or so, just till ----; but
     hearkee, ask me for it the next time we meet, or it may be
     twenty to one but I forget to pay you.'"

Returning from those performances to the author of them, we find him a busy man of letters,
becoming more and more in request among the booksellers, and obtaining recognition among his
fellow-writers. He had moved into better lodgings in Wine Office Court (1760-2); and it was
here that he entertained at supper, as has already been mentioned, no less distinguished guests
than Bishop, then Mr., Percy, and Dr., then Mr., Johnson. Every one has heard of the surprise
of Percy, on calling for Johnson, to find the great Cham dressed with quite unusual smartness.
At times, indeed, he blossomed out into the splendours of a dandy; and laughed at himself for
doing so. But whether he was in gorgeous or in mean attire, he remained the same sort of happy-go-lucky
creature; working hard by fits and starts; continually getting money in advance from the booksellers;
enjoying the present hour; and apparently happy enough when not pressed by debt. That he should
have been thus pressed was no necessity of the case; at all events we need not on this score
begin now to abuse the booksellers or the public of that day. We may dismiss once for all the
oft-repeated charges of ingratitude and neglect.

When Goldsmith was writing those letters in the Public Ledger--with "pleasure and instruction
for others," Mr. Forster says, "though at the cost of suffering to himself"--he was receiving
for them alone what would be equivalent in our day to £200 a year. No man can affirm that £200
a year is not amply sufficient for all the material wants of life. Of course there are fine
things in the world that that amount of annual wage cannot purchase. It is a fine thing to
sit on the deck of a yacht on a summer's day, and watch the far islands shining over the blue;
it is a fine thing to drive four-in-hand to Ascot--if you can do it; it is a fine thing to
cower breathless behind a rock and find a splendid stag coming slowly within sure range. But
these things are not necessary to human happiness: it is possible to do without them and yet
not "suffer." Even if Goldsmith had given half of his substance away to the poor, there was
enough left to cover all the necessary wants of a human being; and if he chose so to order
his affairs as to incur the suffering of debt, why, that was his own business, about which
nothing further needs be said. It is to be suspected, indeed, that he did not care to practise
those excellent maxims of prudence and frugality which he frequently preached; but the world
is not much concerned about that now. If Goldsmith had received ten times as much money as
the booksellers gave him, he would still have died in debt. And it is just possible that we
may exaggerate Goldsmith's sensitiveness on this score. He had had a life-long familiarity
with duns and borrowing; and seemed very contented when the exigency of the hour was tided
over. An angry landlady is unpleasant, and an arrest is awkward; but in comes an opportune
guinea, and the bottle of Madeira is opened forthwith.

In these rooms in Wine Office Court, and at the suggestion or entreaty of Newbery, Goldsmith
produced a good deal of miscellaneous writing--pamphlets, tracts, compilations, and what not--of
a more or less marketable kind. It can only be surmised that by this time he may have formed
some idea of producing a book not solely meant for the market, and that the characters in the
Vicar of Wakefield were already engaging his attention; but the surmise becomes probable enough
when we remember that his project of writing the Traveller, which was not published till 1764,
had been formed as far back as 1755, while he was wandering aimlessly about Europe, and that
a sketch of the poem was actually forwarded by him then to his brother Henry in Ireland. But
in the meantime this hack-work, and the habits of life connected with it, began to tell on
Goldsmith's health; and so, for a time, he left London (1762), and went to Tunbridge and then
to Bath. It is scarcely possible that his modest fame had preceded him to the latter place
of fashion; but it may be that the distinguished folk of the town received this friend of the
great Dr. Johnson with some small measure of distinction; for we find that his next published
work, The Life of Richard Nash, Esq., is respectfully dedicated to the Right Worshipful the
Mayor, Recorder, Aldermen, and Common Council of the City of Bath. The Life of the recently
deceased Master of Ceremonies was published anonymously (1762); but it was generally understood
to be Goldsmith's; and indeed the secret of the authorship is revealed in every successive
line. Among the minor writings of Goldsmith there is none more delightful than this: the mock-heroic
gravity, the half-familiar contemptuous good-nature with which he composes this Funeral March
of a Marionette, are extremely whimsical and amusing. And then what an admirable picture we
get of fashionable English society in the beginning of the eighteenth century, when Bath and
Nash were alike in the heyday of their glory--the fine ladies with their snuff-boxes, and their
passion for play, and their extremely effective language when they got angry; young bucks come
to flourish away their money, and gain by their losses the sympathy of the fair; sharpers on
the look-out for guineas, and adventurers on the look-out for weak-minded heiresses; duchesses
writing letters in the most doubtful English, and chair-men swearing at any one who dared to
walk home on foot at night.

No doubt the Life of Beau Nash was a bookseller's book; and it was made as attractive as possible
by the recapitulation of all sorts of romantic stories about Miss S----n, and Mr. C----e, and
Captain K----g; but throughout we find the historian very much inclined to laugh at his hero,
and only refraining now and again in order to record in serious language traits indicative
of the real goodness of disposition of that fop and gambler. And the fine ladies and gentlemen,
who lived in that atmosphere of scandal, and intrigue, and gambling, are also from time to
time treated to a little decorous and respectful raillery. Who does not remember the famous
laws of polite breeding written out by Mr. Nash--Goldsmith hints that neither Mr. Nash nor
his fair correspondent at Blenheim, the Duchess of Marlborough, excelled in English composition--for
the guidance of the ladies and gentlemen who were under the sway of the King of Bath? "But
were we to give laws to a nursery, we should make them childish laws," Goldsmith writes gravely.
"His statutes, though stupid, were addressed to fine gentlemen and ladies, and were probably
received with sympathetic approbation. It is certain they were in general religiously observed
by his subjects, and executed by him with impartiality; neither rank nor fortune shielded the
refractory from his resentment." Nash, however, was not content with prose in enforcing good
manners. Having waged deadly war against the custom of wearing boots, and having found his
ordinary armoury of no avail against the obduracy of the country squires, he assailed them
in the impassioned language of poetry, and produced the following "Invitation to the Assembly,"
which, as Goldsmith remarks, was highly relished by the nobility at Bath on account of its
keenness, severity, and particularly its good rhymes.

      "Come, one and all, to Hoyden Hall,
    For there's the assembly this night;
      None but prude fools
      Mind manners and rules;
    We Hoydens do decency slight.
      Come, trollops and slatterns,
      Cocked hats and white aprons,
    This best our modesty suits;
      For why should not we
      In dress be as free
    As Hogs-Norton squires in boots?"

The sarcasm was too much for the squires, who yielded in a body; and when any stranger through
inadvertence presented himself in the assembly-rooms in boots, Nash was so completely master
of the situation that he would politely step up to the intruder and suggest that he had forgotten
his horse.

Goldsmith does not magnify the intellectual capacity of his hero; but he gives him credit for
a sort of rude wit that was sometimes effective enough. His physician, for example, having
called on him to see whether he had followed a prescription that had been sent him the previous
day, was greeted in this fashion: "Followed your prescription? No. Egad, if I had, I should
have broken my neck, for I flung it out of the two pair of stairs window." For the rest, this
diverting biography contains some excellent warnings against the vice of gambling; with a particular
account of the manner in which the Government of the day tried by statute after statute to
suppress the tables at Tunbridge and Bath, thereby only driving the sharpers to new subterfuges.
That the Beau was in alliance with sharpers, or, at least, that he was a sleeping partner in
the firm, his biographer admits; but it is urged on his behalf that he was the most generous
of winners, and again and again interfered to prevent the ruin of some gambler by whose folly
he would himself have profited. His constant charity was well known; the money so lightly come
by was at the disposal of any one who could prefer a piteous tale. Moreover he made no scruple
about exacting from others that charity which they could well afford. One may easily guess
who was the duchess mentioned in the following story of Goldsmith's narration:--

     "The sums he gave and collected for the Hospital were great,
     and his manner of doing it was no less admirable. I am told
     that he was once collecting money in Wiltshire's room for
     that purpose, when a lady entered, who is more remarkable
     for her wit than her charity, and not being able to pass by
     him unobserved, she gave him a pat with her fan, and said,
     'You must put down a trifle for me, Nash, for I have no
     money in my pocket.' 'Yes, madam,' says he, 'that I will
     with pleasure, if your grace will tell me when to stop;'
     then taking an handful of guineas out of his pocket, he
     began to tell them into his white hat--' One, two, three,
     four, five ----' 'Hold, hold!' says the duchess, 'consider
     what you are about.' 'Consider your rank and fortune,
     madam,' says Nash, and continues telling--'six, seven,
     eight, nine, ten.' Here the duchess called again, and seemed
     angry. 'Pray compose yourself, madam,' cried Nash, 'and
     don't interrupt the work of charity,--eleven, twelve,
     thirteen, fourteen, fifteen.' Here the duchess stormed, and
     caught hold of his hand. 'Peace, madam,' says Nash, 'you
     shall have your name written in letters of gold, madam, and
     upon the front of the building, madam,--sixteen, seventeen,
     eighteen, nineteen, twenty.' 'I won't pay a farthing more,'
     says the duchess. 'Charity hides a multitude of sins,'
     replies Nash,--'twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three,
     twenty-four, twenty-five.' 'Nash,' says she, 'I protest you
     frighten me out of my wits. L--d, I shall die!' 'Madam, you
     will never die with doing good; and if you do, it will be
     the better for you,' answered Nash, and was about to
     proceed; but perceiving her grace had lost all patience, a
     parley ensued, when he, after much altercation, agreed to
     stop his hand and compound with her grace for thirty
     guineas. The duchess, however, seemed displeased the whole
     evening, and when he came to the table where she was
     playing, bid him, 'Stand farther, an ugly devil, for she
     hated the sight of him.' But her grace afterwards having a
     run of good luck, called Nash to her. 'Come,' says she, 'I
     will be friends with you, though you are a fool; and to let
     you see I am not angry, there is ten guineas more for your
     charity. But this I insist on, that neither my name nor the
     sum shall be mentioned.'"

At the ripe age of eighty-seven the "beau of three generations" breathed his last (1761); and,
though he had fallen into poor ways, there were those alive who remembered his former greatness,
and who chronicled it in a series of epitaphs and poetical lamentations. "One thing is common
almost with all of them," says Goldsmith, "and that is that Venus, Cupid, and the Graces are
commanded to weep, and that Bath shall never find such another." These effusions are forgotten
now; and so would Beau Nash be also, but for this biography, which, no doubt meant merely for
the book-market of the day, lives and is of permanent value by reason of the charm of its style,
its pervading humour, and the vivacity of its descriptions of the fashionable follies of the
eighteenth century. Nullum fere genus scribendi non tetigit. Nullum quod tetigit non ornavit.
Who but Goldsmith could have written so delightful a book about such a poor creature as Beau Nash?

CHAPTER VIII.

The Arrest.

It was no doubt owing to Newbery that Goldsmith, after his return to London, was induced to
abandon, temporarily or altogether, his apartments in Wine Office Court, and take lodgings
in the house of a Mrs. Fleming, who lived somewhere or other in Islington. Newbery had rooms
in Canonbury House, a curious old building that still exists; and it may have occurred to the
publisher that Goldsmith, in this suburban district, would not only be nearer him for consultation
and so forth, but also might pay more attention to his duties than when he was among the temptations
of Fleet Street. Goldsmith was working industriously in the service of Newbery at this time
(1763-4); in fact, so completely was the bookseller in possession of the hack, that Goldsmith's
board and lodging in Mrs. Fleming's house, arranged for at £50 a year, was paid by Newbery
himself. Writing prefaces, revising new editions, contributing reviews--this was the sort of
work he undertook, with more or less content, as the equivalent of the modest sums Mr. Newbery
disbursed for him or handed over as pocket-money. In the midst of all this drudgery he was
now secretly engaged on work that aimed at something higher than mere payment of bed and board.
The smooth lines of the Traveller were receiving further polish; the gentle-natured Vicar was
writing his simple, quaint, tender story. And no doubt Goldsmith was spurred to try something
better than hack-work by the associations that he was now forming, chiefly under the wise and
benevolent friendship of Johnson.

Anxious always to be thought well of, he was now beginning to meet people whose approval was
worthy of being sought. He had been introduced to Reynolds. He had become the friend of Hogarth.
He had even made the acquaintance of Mr. Boswell, from Scotland. Moreover, he had been invited
to become one of the original members of the famous Club of which so much has been written;
his fellow-members being Reynolds, Johnson, Burke, Hawkins, Beauclerk, Bennet Langton, and
Dr. Nugent. It is almost certain that it was at Johnson's instigation that he had been admitted
into this choice fellowship. Long before either the Traveller or the Vicar had been heard of,
Johnson had perceived the literary genius that obscurely burned in the uncouth figure of this
Irishman; and was anxious to impress on others Goldsmith's claims to respect and consideration.
In the minute record kept by Boswell of his first evening with Johnson at the Mitre Tavern,
we find Johnson saying, "Dr. Goldsmith is one of the first men we now have as an author, and
he is a very worthy man too. He has been loose in his principles, but he is coming right."
Johnson took walks with Goldsmith; did him the honour of disputing with him on all occasions;
bought a copy of the Life of Nash when it appeared--an unusual compliment for one author to
pay another, in their day or in ours; allowed him to call on Miss Williams, the blind old lady
in Bolt Court; and generally was his friend, counsellor, and champion. Accordingly, when Mr.
Boswell entertained the great Cham to supper at the Mitre--a sudden quarrel with his landlord
having made it impossible for him to order the banquet at his own house--he was careful to
have Dr. Goldsmith of the company. His guests that evening were Johnson, Goldsmith, Davies
(the actor and bookseller who had conferred on Boswell the invaluable favour of an introduction
to Johnson), Mr. Eccles, and the Rev. Mr. Ogilvie, a Scotch poet who deserves our gratitude
because it was his inopportune patriotism that provoked, on this very evening, the memorable
epigram about the high-road leading to England. It was a dispute not so much about facts as
about phraseology; and, indeed, there seems to be no great warmth in the expressions used on
either side. Goldsmith affirmed that "what was morally false could not be politically true;"
and that, in short, the king could by the misuse of his regal power do wrong. Johnson replied,
that, in such a case, the immediate agents of the king were the persons to be tried and punished
for the offence. But when he stated that the king "is above everything, and there is no power
by which he can be tried," he was surely forgetting an important chapter in English history.
"What did Cromwell do for his country?" he himself asked, during his subsequent visit to Scotland,
of old Auchinleck, Boswell's father. "God, Doctor," replied the vile Whig, "he garred kings
ken they had a lith in their necks."

For some time after this evening Goldsmith drops out of Boswell's famous memoir; perhaps the
compiler was not anxious to give him too much prominence. They had not liked each other from
the outset. Boswell, vexed by the greater intimacy of Goldsmith with Johnson, called him a
blunderer, a feather-brained person; and described his appearance in no flattering terms. Boswell
would probably have been more tolerant of Goldsmith as a rival, if he could have known that
on a future day he was to have Johnson all to himself--to carry him to remote wilds and exhibit
him as a portentous literary phenomenon to Highland lairds. It is true that Johnson, at an
early period of his acquaintance with Boswell, did talk vaguely about a trip to the Hebrides;
but the young Scotch idolater thought it was all too good to be true. Unfortunately Goldsmith
not only disappears from the pages of Boswell's biography at this time, but also in great measure
from the ken of his companions. He was deeply in debt; no doubt the fine clothes he had been
ordering from Mr. Filby in order that he might "shine" among those notable persons, had something
to do with it; he had tried the patience of the booksellers; and he had been devoting a good
deal of time to work not intended to elicit immediate payment. The most patient endeavours
to trace out his changes of lodgings, and the fugitive writings that kept him in daily bread,
have not been very successful. It is to be presumed that Goldsmith had occasionally to go into
hiding to escape from his creditors; and so was missed from his familiar haunts. We only reach
daylight again, to find Goldsmith being under threat of arrest from his landlady; and for the
particulars of this famous affair it is necessary to return to Boswell.

Boswell was not in London at that time; but his account was taken down subsequently from Johnson's
narration; and his accuracy in other matters, his extraordinary memory, and scrupulous care,
leave no doubt in the mind that his version of the story is to be preferred to those of Mrs.
Piozzi and Sir John Hawkins.

We do not know who this landlady was--it cannot now be made out whether the incident occurred
at Islington, or in the rooms that Goldsmith partially occupied in the Temple; but even if
Mrs. Fleming be the landlady in question, she was deserving neither of Goldsmith's rating nor
of the reprimands that have been bestowed upon her by later writers. Mrs. Fleming had been
exceedingly kind to Goldsmith. Again and again in her bills we find items significantly marked
£0 0s. 0d. And if her accounts with her lodger did get hopelessly into arrear; and if she was
annoyed by seeing him go out in fine clothes to sup at the Mitre; and if, at length, her patience
gave way, and she determined to have her rights in one way or another, she was no worse than
landladies--who are only human beings, and not divinely appointed protectresses of genius--ordinarily
are. This would be a dramatic touch; but, after Johnson's quietly corking the bottle of Madeira,
it is more likely that no such thing occurred; especially as Boswell quotes the statement as
an "extreme inaccuracy."

The novel which Johnson had taken away and sold to Francis Newbery, a nephew of the elder bookseller,
was, as every one knows, the Vicar of Wakefield. That Goldsmith, amidst all his pecuniary distresses,
should have retained this piece in his desk, instead of pawning or promising it to one of his
bookselling patrons, points to but one conclusion--that he was building high hopes on it, and
was determined to make it as good as lay within his power. Goldsmith put an anxious finish
into all his better work; perhaps that is the secret of the graceful ease that is now apparent
in every line. Any young writer who may imagine that the power of clear and concise literary
expression comes by nature, cannot do better than study, in Mr. Cunningham's big collection
of Goldsmith's writings, the continual and minute alterations which the author considered necessary
even after the first edition--sometimes when the second and third editions--had been published.
Many of these, especially in the poetical works, were merely improvements in sound as suggested
by a singularly sensitive ear, as when he altered the line

    "Amidst the ruin, heedless of the dead,"

which had appeared in the first three editions of the Traveller, into

    "There in the ruin, heedless of the dead,"

which appeared in the fourth. But the majority of the omissions and corrections were prompted
by a careful taste, that abhorred everything redundant or slovenly. It has been suggested that
when Johnson carried off the Vicar of Wakefield to Francis Newbery, the manuscript was not
quite finished, but had to be completed afterwards. There was at least plenty of time for that.
Newbery does not appear to have imagined that he had obtained a prize in the lottery of literature.
He paid the £60 for it--clearly on the assurance of the great father of learning of the day,
that there was merit in the little story--somewhere about the end of 1764; but the tale was
not issued to the public until March, 1766.

CHAPTER IX.

THE TRAVELLER.

This poem of the Traveller, the fruit of much secret labour and the consummation of the hopes
of many years, was lying completed in Goldsmith's desk when the incident of the arrest occurred;
and the elder Newbery had undertaken to publish it. Then, as at other times, Johnson lent this
wayward child of genius a friendly hand. He read over the proof-sheets for Goldsmith; was so
kind as to put in a line here or there where he thought fit; and prepared a notice of the poem
for the Critical Review. The time for the appearance of this new claimant for poetical honours
was propitious. "There was perhaps no point in the century," says Professor Masson, "when the
British Muse, such as she had come to be, was doing less, or had so nearly ceased to do anything,
or to have any good opinion of herself, as precisely about the year 1764. Young was dying;
Gray was recluse and indolent; Johnson had long given over his metrical experimentations on
any except the most inconsiderable scale; Akenside, Armstrong, Smollett, and others less known,
had pretty well revealed the amount of their worth in poetry; and Churchill, after his ferocious
blaze of what was really rage and declamation in metre, though conventionally it was called
poetry, was prematurely defunct. Into this lull came Goldsmith's short but carefully finished
poem." "There has not been so fine a poem since Pope's time," remarked Johnson to Boswell,
on the very first evening after the return of young Auchinleck to London. It would have been
no matter for surprise had Goldsmith dedicated this first work that he published under his
own name to Johnson, who had for so long been his constant friend and adviser; and such a dedication
would have carried weight in certain quarters. But there was a finer touch in Goldsmith's thought
of inscribing the book to his brother Henry; and no doubt the public were surprised and pleased
to find a poor devil of an author dedicating a work to an Irish parson with £40 a year, from
whom he could not well expect any return.

The very first line of the poem strikes a key-note--there is in it a pathetic thrill of distance,
and regret, and longing; and it has the soft musical sound that pervades the whole composition.
It is exceedingly interesting to note, as has already been mentioned, how Goldsmith altered
and altered these lines until he had got them full of gentle vowel sounds. Another characteristic
of the Traveller is the extraordinary choiceness and conciseness of the diction, which, instead
of suggesting pedantry or affectation, betrays on the contrary nothing but a delightful ease
and grace.

The English people are very fond of good English; and thus it is that couplets from the Traveller
and the Deserted Village have come into the common stock of our language, and that sometimes
not so much on account of the ideas they convey, as through their singular precision of epithet
and musical sound. It is enough to make the angels weep, to find such a couplet as this--

    "Cheerful at morn, he wakes from short repose,
    Breasts the keen air, and carols as he goes,"

murdered in several editions of Goldsmith's works by the substitution of the commonplace "breathes"
for "breasts"--and that, after Johnson had drawn particular attention to the line by quoting
it in his Dictionary. Perhaps, indeed, it may be admitted that the literary charm of the Traveller
is more apparent than the value of any doctrine, however profound or ingenious, which the poem
was supposed to inculcate. We forget all about the "particular principle of happiness" possessed
by each European state, in listening to the melody of the singer, and in watching the successive
and delightful pictures that he calls up before the imagination.

Then notice the blaze of patriotic idealism that bursts forth when he comes to talk of England.
What sort of England had he been familiar with when he was consorting with the meanest wretches--the
poverty stricken, the sick, and squalid--in those Fleet-Street dens?

"Whenever I write anything," Goldsmith had said, with a humorous exaggeration which Boswell,
as usual, takes au sérieux, "the public make a point to know nothing about it." But we have
Johnson's testimony to the fact that the Traveller "brought him into high reputation." No wonder.
When the great Cham declares it to be the finest poem published since the time of Pope, we
are irresistibly forced to think of the Essay on Man. What a contrast there is between that
tedious and stilted effort, and this clear burst of bird-song! The Traveller, however, did
not immediately become popular. It was largely talked about, naturally, among Goldsmith's friends;
and Johnson would scarcely suffer any criticism of it. "You surely had no doubt of this before?"

Presently people began to talk about the new poem. A second edition was issued; a third; a
fourth. It is not probable that Goldsmith gained any pecuniary benefit from the growing popularity
of the little book; but he had "struck for honest fame," and that was now coming to him. He
even made some slight acquaintance with "the great;" and here occurs an incident which is one
of many that account for the love that the English people have for Goldsmith. It appears that
Hawkins, calling one day on the Earl of Northumberland, found the author of the Traveller waiting
in the outer room, in response to an invitation. Hawkins, having finished his own business,
retired, but lingered about until the interview between Goldsmith and his lordship was over,
having some curiosity about the result. Here follows Goldsmith's report to Hawkins. "Why,"
said Goldsmith, "I could say nothing but that I had a brother there, a clergyman, that stood
in need of help,"--and then he explained to Hawkins that he looked to the booksellers for support,
and was not inclined to place dependence on the promises of great men. "Thus did this idiot
in the affairs of the world," adds Hawkins, with a fatuity that is quite remarkable in its
way, "trifle with his fortunes, and put back the hand that was held out to assist him! Other
offers of a like kind he either rejected or failed to improve, contenting himself with the
patronage of one nobleman, whose mansion afforded him the delights of a splendid table and
a retreat for a few days from the metropolis." It is a great pity we have not a description
from the same pen of Johnson's insolent ingratitude in flinging the pair of boots down stairs.

CHAPTER X.

MISCELLANEOUS WRITING.

But one pecuniary result of this growing fame was a joint offer on the part of Griffin and
Newbery of £20 for a selection from his printed essays; and this selection was forthwith made
and published, with a preface written for the occasion. Here at once we can see that Goldsmith
takes firmer ground. There is an air of confidence--of gaiety, even--in his address to the
public; although, as usual, accompanied by a whimsical mock-modesty that is extremely odd and
effective. "Whatever right I have to complain of the public," he says, "they can, as yet, have
no just reason to complain of me. If I have written dull Essays, they have hitherto treated
them as dull Essays. Thus far we are at least upon par, and until they think fit to make me
their humble debtor by praise, I am resolved not to lose a single inch of my self-importance.
Instead, therefore, of attempting to establish a credit amongst them, it will perhaps be wiser
to apply to some more distant correspondent; and as my drafts are in some danger of being protested
at home, it may not be imprudent, upon this occasion, to draw my bills upon Posterity.

     "MR. POSTERITY,

     "SIR,--Nine hundred and ninety-nine years after sight hereof
     pay the bearer, or order, a thousand pounds worth of praise,
     free from all deductions whatsoever, it being a commodity
     that will then be very serviceable to him, and place it to
     the account of, &c."

The bill is not yet due; but there can in the meantime be no harm in discounting it so far
as to say that these Essays deserve very decided praise. They deal with all manner of topics,
matters of fact, matters of imagination, humorous descriptions, learned criticisms; and then,
whenever the entertainer thinks he is becoming dull, he suddenly tells a quaint little story
and walks off amidst the laughter he knows he has produced. It is not a very ambitious or sonorous
sort of literature; but it was admirably fitted for its aim--the passing of the immediate hour
in an agreeable and fairly intellectual way. One can often see, no doubt, that these Essays
are occasionally written in a more or less perfunctory fashion, the writer not being moved
by much enthusiasm in his subject; but even then a quaint literary grace seldom fails to atone,
as when, writing about the English clergy, and complaining that they do not sufficiently in
their addresses stoop to mean capacities, he says--"Whatever may become of the higher orders
of mankind, who are generally possessed of collateral motives to virtue, the vulgar should
be particularly regarded, whose behaviour in civil life is totally hinged upon their hopes
and fears. Those who constitute the basis of the great fabric of society should be particularly
regarded; for in policy, as in architecture, ruin is most fatal when it begins from the bottom."
There was, indeed, throughout Goldsmith's miscellaneous writing much more common sense than
might have been expected from a writer who was supposed to have none.

As regards his chance criticisms on dramatic and poetical literature, these are generally found
to be incisive and just; while sometimes they exhibit a wholesome disregard of mere tradition
and authority. "Milton's translation of Horace's Ode to Pyrrha," he says, for example, "is
universally known and generally admired, in our opinion much above its merit." If the present
writer might for a moment venture into such an arena, he would express the honest belief that
that translation is the very worst translation that was ever made of anything. But there is
the happy rendering of simplex munditiis, which counts for much.

By this time Goldsmith had also written his charming ballad of Edwin and Angelina, which was
privately "printed for the amusement of the Countess of Northumberland," and which afterwards
appeared in the Vicar of Wakefield. It seems clear enough that this quaint and pathetic piece
was suggested by an old ballad beginning,

    "Gentle heardsman, tell to me,
    Of curtesy I thee pray,
    Unto the towne of Walsingham
    Which is the right and ready way,"

which Percy had shown to Goldsmith, and which, patched up, subsequently appeared in the Reliques.
But Goldsmith's ballad is original enough to put aside all the discussion about plagiarism
which was afterwards started. In the old fragment the weeping pilgrim receives directions from
the herdsman, and goes on her way, and we hear of her no more; in Edwin and Angelina the forlorn
and despairing maiden suddenly finds herself confronted by the long-lost lover whom she had
so cruelly used. This is the dramatic touch that reveals the hand of the artist. And here again
it is curious to note the care with which Goldsmith repeatedly revised his writings.

But subsequently it must have occurred to the author that, the dramatic disclosure once made,
and the lovers restored to each other, any lingering over the scene only weakened the force
of the climax; hence these stanzas were judiciously excised.

Meanwhile Goldsmith had resorted to hack-work again; nothing being expected from the Vicar
of Wakefield, now lying in Newbery's shop, for that had been paid for, and his expenses were
increasing, as became his greater station. In the interval between the publication of the Traveller
and of the Vicar, he moved into better chambers in Garden Court; he hired a man-servant, he
blossomed out into very fine clothes. Indeed, so effective did his first suit seem to be--the
purple silk small-clothes, the scarlet roquelaure, the wig, sword, and gold-headed cane--that,
as Mr. Forster says, he "amazed his friends with no less than three similar suits, not less
expensive, in the next six months." Part of this display was no doubt owing to a suggestion
from Reynolds that Goldsmith, having a medical degree, might just as well add the practice
of a physician to his literary work, to magnify his social position. Goldsmith, always willing
to please his friends, acceded; but his practice does not appear to have been either extensive
or long-continued. It is said that he drew out a prescription for a certain Mrs. Sidebotham
which so appalled the apothecary that he refused to make it up; and that, as the lady sided
with the apothecary, he threw up the case and his profession at the same time. If it was money
Goldsmith wanted, he was not likely to get it in that way; he had neither the appearance nor
the manner fitted to humour the sick and transform healthy people into valetudinarians. If
it was the esteem of his friends and popularity outside that circle, he was soon to acquire
enough of both. On the 27th March, 1766, fifteen months after the appearance of the Traveller,
the Vicar of Wakefield was published.

CHAPTER XI.

THE VICAR OF WAKEFIELD.

The Vicar of Wakefield, considered structurally, follows the lines of the Book of Job. You
take a good man, overwhelm him with successive misfortunes, show the pure flame of his soul
burning in the midst of the darkness, and then, as the reward of his patience and fortitude
and submission, restore him gradually to happiness, with even larger flocks and herds than
before. The machinery by which all this is brought about is, in the Vicar of Wakefield, the
weak part of the story. The plot is full of wild improbabilities; in fact, the expedients by
which all the members of the family are brought together and made happy at the same time, are
nothing short of desperate. It is quite clear, too, that the author does not know what to make
of the episode of Olivia and her husband; they are allowed to drop through; we leave him playing
the French horn at a relation's house; while she, in her father's home, is supposed to be unnoticed,
so much are they all taken up with the rejoicings over the double wedding. It is very probable
that when Goldsmith began the story he had no very definite plot concocted; and that it was
only when the much-persecuted Vicar had to be restored to happiness, that he found the entanglements
surrounding him, and had to make frantic efforts to break through them. But, be that as it
may, it is not for the plot that people now read the Vicar of Wakefield; it is not the intricacies
of the story that have made it the delight of the world. Surely human nature must be very much
the same when this simple description of a quiet English home went straight to the heart of
nations in both hemispheres.

And the wonder is that Goldsmith of all men should have produced such a perfect picture of
domestic life. What had his own life been but a moving about between garret and tavern, between
bachelor's lodgings and clubs? Where had he seen--unless, indeed, he looked back through the
mist of years to the scenes of his childhood--all this gentle government, and wise blindness;
all this affection, and consideration, and respect? There is as much human nature in the character
of the Vicar alone as would have furnished any fifty of the novels of that day, or of this.
Who has not been charmed by his sly and quaint humour, by his moral dignity and simple vanities,
even by the little secrets he reveals to us of his paternal rule. "'Ay,' returned I, not knowing
well what to think of the matter, 'heaven grant they may be both the better for it this day
three months!' This was one of those observations I usually made to impress my wife with an
opinion of my sagacity; for if the girls succeeded, then it was a pious wish fulfilled; but
if anything unfortunate ensued, then it might be looked on as a prophecy." We know how Miss
Olivia was answered, when, at her mother's prompting, she set up for being well skilled in
controversy:--

"'Why, my dear, what controversy can she have read?' cried I. 'It does not occur to me that
I ever put such books into her hands: you certainly overrate her merit.'--'Indeed, papa,' replied
Olivia, 'she does not; I have read a great deal of controversy. I have read the disputes between
Thwackum and Square; the controversy between Robinson Crusoe and Friday, the savage; and I
am now employed in reading the controversy in Religious Courtship.'--'Very well,' cried I,
'that's a good girl; I find you are perfectly qualified for making converts, and so go help
your mother to make the gooseberry pie.'"

It is with a great gentleness that the good man reminds his wife and daughters that, after
their sudden loss of fortune, it does not become them to wear much finery. "The first Sunday,
in particular, their behaviour served to mortify me. I had desired my girls the preceding night
to be dressed early the next day; for I always loved to be at church a good while before the
rest of the congregation. They punctually obeyed my directions; but when we were to assemble
in the morning at breakfast, down came my wife and daughters, dressed out in all their former
splendour; their hair plastered up with pomatum, their faces patched to taste, their trains
bundled up in a heap behind, and rustling at every motion. I could not help smiling at their
vanity, particularly that of my wife, from whom I expected more discretion. In this exigence,
therefore, my only resource was to order my son, with an important air, to call our coach.
The girls were amazed at the command; but I repeated it with more solemnity than before. 'Surely,
my dear, you jest,' cried my wife; 'we can walk it perfectly well: we want no coach to carry
us now.'--'You mistake, child,' returned I, 'we do want a coach; for if we walk to church in
this trim, the very children in the parish will hoot after us.'--'Indeed,' replied my wife,
'I always imagined that my Charles was fond of seeing his children neat and handsome about
him.'--'You may be as neat as you please,' interrupted I, 'and I shall love you the better
for it; but all this is not neatness, but frippery. These rufflings, and pinkings, and patchings
will only make us hated by all the wives of our neighbours. No, my children,' continued I,
more gravely, 'those gowns may be altered into something of a plainer cut; for finery is very
unbecoming in us, who want the means of decency. I do not know whether such flouncing and shredding
is becoming even in the rich, if we consider, upon a moderate calculation, that the nakedness
of the indigent world might be clothed from the trimmings of the vain.'

"This remonstrance had the proper effect: they went with great composure, that very instant,
to change their dress; and the next day I had the satisfaction of finding my daughters, at
their own request, employed in cutting up their trains into Sunday waistcoats for Dick and
Bill, the two little ones; and, what was still more satisfactory, the gowns seemed improved
by this curtailing." And again when he discovered the two girls making a wash for their faces:--"My
daughters seemed equally busy with the rest; and I observed them for a good while cooking something
over the fire. I at first supposed they were assisting their mother, but little Dick informed
me, in a whisper, that they were making a wash for the face. Washes of all kinds I had a natural
antipathy to; for I knew that, instead of mending the complexion, they spoil it. I therefore
approached my chair by sly degrees to the fire, and grasping the poker, as if it wanted mending,
seemingly by accident overturned the whole composition, and it was too late to begin another."

All this is done with such a light, homely touch, that one gets familiarly to know these people
without being aware of it. There is no insistance. There is no dragging you along by the collar;
confronting you with certain figures; and compelling you to look at this and study that. The
artist stands by you, and laughs in his quiet way; and you are laughing too, when suddenly
you find that human beings have silently come into the void before you; and you know them for
friends; and even after the vision has faded away, and the beautiful light and colour and glory
of romance-land have vanished, you cannot forget them. They have become part of your life;
you will take them to the grave with you.

The story, as every one perceives, has its obvious blemishes. "There are an hundred faults
in this Thing," says Goldsmith himself, in the prefixed Advertisement. But more particularly,
in the midst of all the impossibilities taking place in and around the jail, when that chameleon-like
deus ex machinâ, Mr. Jenkinson, winds up the tale in hot haste, Goldsmith pauses to put in
a sort of apology. "Nor can I go on without a reflection," he says gravely, "on those accidental
meetings, which, though they happen every day, seldom excite our surprise but upon some extraordinary
occasion. To what a fortuitous concurrence do we not owe every pleasure and convenience of
our lives! How many seeming accidents must unite before we can be clothed or fed! The peasant
must be disposed to labour, the shower must fall, the wind fill the merchant's sail, or numbers
must want the usual supply." This is Mr. Thackeray's "simple rogue" appearing again in adult
life. Certainly, if our supply of food and clothing depended on such accidents as happened
to make the Vicar's family happy all at once, there would be a good deal of shivering and starvation
in the world. Moreover it may be admitted that on occasion Goldsmith's fine instinct deserts
him; and even in describing those domestic relations which are the charm of the novel, he blunders
into the unnatural. When Mr. Burchell, for example, leaves the house in consequence of a quarrel
with Mrs. Primrose, the Vicar questions his daughter as to whether she had received from that
poor gentleman any testimony of his affection for her. She replies No; but remembers to have
heard him remark that he never knew a woman who could find merit in a man that was poor. "Such,
my dear," continued the Vicar, "is the common cant of all the unfortunate or idle. But I hope
you have been taught to judge properly of such men, and that it would be even madness to expect
happiness from one who has been so very bad an economist of his own. Your mother and I have
now better prospects for you. The next winter, which you will probably spend in town, will
give you opportunities of making a more prudent choice." Now it is not at all likely that a
father, however anxious to have his daughter well married and settled, would ask her so delicate
a question in open domestic circle, and would then publicly inform her that she was expected
to choose a husband on her forthcoming visit to town.

Whatever may be said about any particular incident like this, the atmosphere of the book is
true. Goethe, to whom a German translation of the Vicar was read by Herder some four years
after the publication in England, not only declared it at the time to be one of the best novels
ever written, but again and again throughout his life reverted to the charm and delight with
which he had made the acquaintance of the English "prose-idyll," and took it for granted that
it was a real picture of English life. Despite all the machinery of Mr. Jenkinson's schemes,
who could doubt it? Again and again there are recurrent strokes of such vividness and naturalness
that we yield altogether to the necromancer. Look at this perfect picture--of human emotion
and outside nature--put in in a few sentences. The old clergyman, after being in search of
his daughter, has found her, and is now--having left her in an inn--returning to his family
and his home. "And now my heart caught new sensations of pleasure, the nearer I approached
that peaceful mansion. As a bird that had been frighted from its nest, my affections outwent
my haste, and hovered round my little fireside with all the rapture of expectation. I called
up the many fond things I had to say, and anticipated the welcome I was to receive. I already
felt my wife's tender embrace, and smiled at the joy of my little ones. As I walked but slowly,
the night waned apace. The labourers of the day were all retired to rest; the lights were out
in every cottage; no sounds were heard but of the shrilling cock, and the deep-mouthed watch-dog
at hollow distance. I approached my little abode of pleasure, and, before I was within a furlong
of the place, our honest mastiff came running to welcome me." "The deep-mouthed watch-dog at
hollow distance;"--what more perfect description of the stillness of night was ever given?

And then there are other qualities in this delightful Vicar of Wakefield than merely idyllic
tenderness, and pathos, and sly humour. There is a firm presentation of the crimes and brutalities
of the world. The pure light that shines within that domestic circle is all the brighter because
of the black outer ring that is here and there indicated rather than described. How could we
appreciate all the simplicities of the good man's household, but for the rogueries with which
they are brought in contact? And although we laugh at Moses and his gross of green spectacles,
and the manner in which the Vicar's wife and daughter are imposed on by Miss Wilhelmina Skeggs
and Lady Blarney, with their lords and ladies and their tributes to virtue, there is no laughter
demanded of us when we find the simplicity and moral dignity of the Vicar meeting and beating
the jeers and taunts of the abandoned wretches in the prison. This is really a remarkable episode.
The author was under the obvious temptation to make much comic material out of the situation;
while another temptation, towards the goody-goody side, was not far off. But the Vicar undertakes
the duty of reclaiming these castaways with a modest patience and earnestness in every way
in keeping with his character; while they, on the other hand, are not too easily moved to tears
of repentance. His first efforts, it will be remembered, were not too successful. "Their insensibility
excited my highest compassion, and blotted my own uneasiness from my mind. It even appeared
a duty incumbent upon me to attempt to reclaim them. I resolved, therefore, once more to return,
and, in spite of their contempt, to give them my advice, and conquer them by my perseverance.
Going, therefore, among them again, I informed Mr. Jenkinson of my design, at which he laughed
heartily, but communicated it to the rest. The proposal was received with the greatest good
humour, as it promised to afford a new fund of entertainment to persons who had now no other
resource for mirth but what could be derived from ridicule or debauchery.

"I therefore read them a portion of the service with a loud, unaffected voice, and found my
audience perfectly merry upon the occasion. Lewd whispers, groans of contrition burlesqued,
winking and coughing, alternately excited laughter. However, I continued with my natural solemnity
to read on, sensible that what I did might mend some, but could itself receive no contamination
from any.

"After reading, I entered upon my exhortation, which was rather calculated at first to amuse
them than to reprove. I previously observed, that no other motive but their welfare could induce
me to this; that I was their fellow-prisoner, and now got nothing by preaching. I was sorry,
I said, to hear them so very profane; because they got nothing by it, but might lose a great
deal: 'For be assured, my friends,' cried I,--'for you are my friends, however the world may
disclaim your friendship,--though you swore twelve thousand oaths in a day, it would not put
one penny in your purse. Then what signifies calling every moment upon the devil, and courting
his friendship, since you find how scurvily he uses you? He has given you nothing here, you
find, but a mouthful of oaths and an empty belly; and, by the best accounts I have of him,
he will give you nothing that's good hereafter.

"'If used ill in our dealings with one man, we naturally go elsewhere. Were it not worth your
while, then, just to try how you may like the usage of another master, who gives you fair promises
at least to come to him? Surely, my friends, of all stupidity in the world, his must be the
greatest, who, after robbing a house, runs to the thief-takers for protection. And yet, how
are you more wise? You are all seeking comfort from one that has already betrayed you, applying
to a more malicious being than any thief-taker of them all; for they only decoy and then hang
you; but he decoys and hangs, and, what is worst of all, will not let you loose after the hangman
has done.'

"When I had concluded, I received the compliments of my audience, some of whom came and shook
me by the hand, swearing that I was a very honest fellow, and that they desired my further
acquaintance. I therefore promised to repeat my lecture next day, and actually conceived some
hopes of making a reformation here; for it had ever been my opinion, that no man was past the
hour of amendment, every heart lying open to the shafts of reproof, if the archer could but
take a proper aim."

His wife and children, naturally dissuading him from an effort which seemed to them only to
bring ridicule upon him, are met by a grave rebuke; and on the next morning he descends to
the common prison, where, he says, he found the prisoners very merry, expecting his arrival,
and each prepared to play some gaol-trick on the Doctor.

"There was one whose trick gave more universal pleasure than all the rest; for, observing the
manner in which I had disposed my books on the table before me, he very dexterously displaced
one of them, and put an obscene jest-book of his own in the place. However, I took no notice
of all that this mischievous group of little beings could do, but went on, perfectly sensible
that what was ridiculous in my attempt would excite mirth only the first or second time, while
what was serious would be permanent. My design succeeded, and in less than six days some were
penitent, and all attentive.

"It was now that I applauded my perseverance and address, at thus giving sensibility to wretches
divested of every moral feeling, and now began to think of doing them temporal services also,
by rendering their situation somewhat more comfortable. Their time had hitherto been divided
between famine and excess, tumultuous riot and bitter repining. Their only employment was quarrelling
among each other, playing at cribbage, and cutting tobacco-stoppers. From this last mode of
idle industry I took the hint of setting such as choose to work at cutting pegs for tobacconists
and shoemakers, the proper wood being bought by a general subscription, and, when manufactured,
sold by my appointment; so that each earned something every day--a trifle indeed, but sufficient
to maintain him.

"I did not stop here, but instituted fines for the punishment of immorality, and rewards for
peculiar industry. Thus, in less than a fortnight I had formed them into something social and
humane, and had the pleasure of regarding myself as a legislator who had brought men from their
native ferocity into friendship and obedience."

Of course, all this about gaols and thieves was calculated to shock the nerves of those who
liked their literature perfumed with rose-water. Madame Riccoboni, to whom Burke had sent the
book, wrote to Garrick, "Le plaidoyer en faveur des voleurs, des petits larrons, des gens de
mauvaises moeurs, est fort éloigné de me plaire." Others, no doubt, considered the introduction
of Miss Skeggs and Lady Blarney as "vastly low." But the curious thing is that the literary
critics of the day seem to have been altogether silent about the book--perhaps they were "puzzled"
by it, as Southey has suggested. Mr. Forster, who took the trouble to search the periodical
literature of the time, says that, "apart from bald recitals of the plot, not a word was said
in the way of criticism about the book, either in praise or blame." The St. James's Chronicle
did not condescend to notice its appearance, and the Monthly Review confessed frankly that
nothing was to be made of it. The better sort of newspapers, as well as the more dignified
reviews, contemptuously left it to the patronage of Lloyd's Evening Post, the London Chronicle,
and journals of that class; which simply informed their readers that a new novel, called the
Vicar of Wakefield, had been published, that "the editor is Doctor Goldsmith, who has affixed
his name to an introductory Advertisement, and that such and such were the incidents of the
story." Even his friends, with the exception of Burke, did not seem to consider that any remarkable
new birth in literature had occurred; and it is probable that this was a still greater disappointment
to Goldsmith, who was so anxious to be thought well of at the Club. However, the public took
to the story. A second edition was published in May; a third in August. Goldsmith, it is true,
received no pecuniary gain from this success, for, as we have seen, Johnson had sold the novel
outright to Francis Newbery; but his name was growing in importance with the booksellers.

There was need that it should, for his increasing expenses--his fine clothes, his suppers,
his whist at the Devil Tavern--were involving him in deeper and deeper difficulties. How was
he to extricate himself?--or rather the question that would naturally occur to Goldsmith was
how was he to continue that hand-to-mouth existence that had its compensations along with its
troubles? Novels like the Vicar of Wakefield are not written at a moment's notice, even though
any Newbery, judging by results, is willing to double that £60 which Johnson considered to
be a fair price for the story at the time. There was the usual resource of hack-writing; and,
no doubt, Goldsmith was compelled to fall back on that, if only to keep the elder Newbery,
in whose debt he was, in a good humour. But the author of the Vicar of Wakefield may be excused
if he looked round to see if there was not some more profitable work for him to turn his hand
to. It was at this time that he began to think of writing a comedy.

CHAPTER XII.

THE GOOD-NATURED MAN.

Amid much miscellaneous work, mostly of the compilation order, the play of the Good-natured
Man began to assume concrete form; insomuch that Johnson, always the friend of this erratic
Irishman, had promised to write a Prologue for it. It is with regard to this Prologue that
Boswell tells a foolish and untrustworthy story about Goldsmith. Dr. Johnson had recently been
honoured by an interview with his Sovereign; and the members of the Club were in the habit
of flattering him by begging for a repetition of his account of that famous event. It is obvious
enough that the only part of this anecdote which is quite worthy of credence is the actual
phrase used by Goldsmith, which is full of his customary generosity and self-depreciation.
All those "suspicions" of his envy of his friend may safely be discarded, for they are mere
guesswork; even though it might have been natural enough for a man like Goldsmith, conscious
of his singular and original genius, to measure himself against Johnson, who was merely a man
of keen perception and shrewd reasoning, and to compare the deference paid to Johnson with
the scant courtesy shown to himself.

As a matter of fact, the Prologue was written by Dr. Johnson; and the now complete comedy was,
after some little arrangement of personal differences between Goldsmith and Garrick, very kindly
undertaken by Reynolds, submitted for Garrick's approval. But nothing came of Reynolds's intervention.
Perhaps Goldsmith resented Garrick's airs of patronage towards a poor devil of an author; perhaps
Garrick was surprised by the manner in which well-intentioned criticisms were taken; at all
events, after a good deal of shilly-shallying, the play was taken out of Garrick's hands. Fortunately,
a project was just at this moment on foot for starting the rival theatre in Covent Garden,
under the management of George Colman; and to Colman Goldsmith's play was forthwith consigned.
The play was accepted; but it was a long time before it was produced; and in that interval
it may fairly be presumed the res angusta domi of Goldsmith did not become any more free and
generous than before. It was in this interval that the elder Newbery died; Goldsmith had one
patron the less. Another patron who offered himself was civilly bowed to the door. This is
an incident in Goldsmith's career which, like his interview with the Earl of Northumberland,
should ever be remembered in his honour. The Government of the day were desirous of enlisting
on their behalf the services of writers of somewhat better position than the mere libellers
whose pens were the slaves of anybody's purse; and a Mr. Scott, a chaplain of Lord Sandwich,
appears to have imagined that it would be worth while to buy Goldsmith. He applied to Goldsmith
in due course; and this is an account of the interview. Needy as he was, Goldsmith had too
much self-respect to become a paid libeller and cutthroat of public reputations.

On the evening of Friday, the 29th of January, 1768, when Goldsmith had now reached the age
of forty, the comedy of The Good-natured Man was produced at Covent Garden Theatre. The Prologue
had, according to promise, been written by Johnson; and a very singular prologue it was. Even
Boswell was struck by the odd contrast between this sonorous piece of melancholy and the fun
that was to follow.

But this dark ground might make Goldsmith's humour shine the more." When we come to the comedy
itself, we find but little bright humour in the opening passages. The author is obviously timid,
anxious, and constrained. There is nothing of the brisk, confident vivacity with which She
Stoops to Conquer opens. The novice does not yet understand the art of making his characters
explain themselves; and accordingly the benevolent uncle and honest Jarvis indulge in a conversation
which, laboriously descriptive of the character of young Honeywood, is spoken "at" the audience.
With the entrance of young Honeywood himself, Goldsmith endeavours to become a little more
sprightly; but there is still anxiety hanging over him, and the epigrams are little more than
merely formal antitheses.

     "Jarvis. This bill from your tailor; this from your
     mercer; and this from the little broker in Crooked Lane. He
     says he has been at a great deal of trouble to get back the
     money you borrowed.

     Hon. That I don't know; but I'm sure we were at a great
     deal of trouble in getting him to lend it.

     Jar. He has lost all patience.

     Hon. Then he has lost a very good thing.

     Jar. There's that ten guineas you were sending to the poor
     gentleman and his children in the Fleet. I believe that
     would stop his mouth for a while at least.

     Hon. Ay, Jarvis, but what will fill their mouths in the
     mean time?"

This young Honeywood, the hero of the play, is, and remains throughout, a somewhat ghostly
personage. He has attributes; but no flesh or blood. There is much more substance in the next
character introduced--the inimitable Croaker, who revels in evil forebodings and drinks deep
of the luxury of woe. These are the two chief characters; but then a play must have a plot.
And perhaps it would not be fair, so far as the plot is concerned, to judge of The Good-natured
Man merely as a literary production. Intricacies that seem tedious and puzzling on paper appear
to be clear enough on the stage: it is much more easy to remember the history and circumstances
of a person whom we see before us, than to attach these to a mere name--especially as the name
is sure to be clipped down from Honeywood to Hon. and from Leontine to Leon. However, it is
in the midst of all the cross-purposes of the lovers that we once more come upon our old friend
Beau Tibbs--though Mr. Tibbs is now in much better circumstances, and has been re-named by
his creator Jack Lofty. Garrick had objected to the introduction of Jack, on the ground that
he was only a distraction. But Goldsmith, whether in writing a novel or a play, was more anxious
to represent human nature than to prune a plot, and paid but little respect to the unities,
if only he could arouse our interest. And who is not delighted with this Jack Lofty and his
"duchessy" talk--his airs of patronage, his mysterious hints, his gay familiarity with the
great, his audacious lying?

     "Lofty. Waller? Waller? Is he of the house?

     Mrs. Croaker. The modern poet of that name, sir.

     Lof. Oh, a modern! We men of business despise the moderns;
     and as for the ancients, we have no time to read them.
     Poetry is a pretty thing enough for our wives and daughters;
     but not for us. Why now, here I stand that know nothing of
     books. I say, madam, I know nothing of books; and yet, I
     believe, upon a land-carriage fishery, a stamp act, or a
     jag-hire, I can talk my two hours without feeling the want
     of them.

     Mrs. Cro. The world is no stranger to Mr. Lofty's eminence
     in every capacity.

     Lof. I vow to gad, madam, you make me blush. I'm nothing,
     nothing, nothing in the world; a mere obscure gentleman. To
     be sure, indeed, one or two of the present ministers are
     pleased to represent me as a formidable man. I know they are
     pleased to bespatter me at all their little dirty levees.
     Yet, upon my soul, I wonder what they see in me to treat me
     so!

     Mrs. Cro. What importance, and yet what modesty!

     Lof. Oh, if you talk of modesty, madam, there, I own, I'm
     accessible to praise: modesty is my foible: it was so the
     Duke of Brentford used to say of me. 'I love Jack Lofty,' he
     used to say: 'no man has a finer knowledge of things; quite
     a man of information; and when he speaks upon his legs, by
     the Lord he's prodigious, he scouts them; and yet all men
     have their faults; too much modesty is his,' says his grace.

     Mrs. Cro. And yet, I dare say, you don't want assurance
     when you come to solicit for your friends.

     Lof. Oh, there indeed I'm in bronze. Apropos! I have just
     been mentioning Miss Richland's case to a certain personage;
     we must name no names. When I ask, I am not to be put off,
     madam. No, no, I take my friend by the button. A fine girl,
     sir; great justice in her case. A friend of mine--borough
     interest--business must be done, Mr. Secretary.--I say, Mr.
     Secretary, her business must be done, sir. That's my way,
     madam.

     Mrs. Cro. Bless me! you said all this to the Secretary of
     State, did you?

     Lof. I did not say the Secretary, did I? Well, curse it,
     since you have found me out, I will not deny it. It was to
     the Secretary."

Strangely enough, what may now seem to some of us the very best scene in the Good-natured Man--the
scene, that is, in which young Honeywood, suddenly finding Miss Richland without, is compelled
to dress up the two bailiffs in possession of his house and introduce them to her as gentlemen
friends--was very nearly damning the play on the first night of its production. The pit was
of opinion that it was "low;" and subsequently the critics took up the cry, and professed themselves
to be so deeply shocked by the vulgar humours of the bailiffs that Goldsmith had to cut them
out. But on the opening night the anxious author, who had been rendered nearly distracted by
the cries and hisses produced by this scene, was somewhat reassured when the audience began
to laugh again over the tribulations of Mr. Croaker. To the actor who played the part he expressed
his warm gratitude when the piece was over; assuring him that he had exceeded his own conception
of the character, and that "the fine comic richness of his colouring made it almost appear
as new to him as to any other person in the house."

The new play had been on the whole favourably received; and, when Goldsmith went along afterwards
to the Club, his companions were doubtless not at all surprised to find him in good spirits.
He was even merrier than usual; and consented to sing his favourite ballad about the Old Woman
tossed in a Blanket. But those hisses and cries were still rankling in his memory; and he himself
subsequently confessed that he was "suffering horrid tortures." Nay, when the other members
of the Club had gone, leaving him and Johnson together, he "burst out a-crying, and even swore
by ---- that he would never write again." When Goldsmith told this story in after-days, Johnson
was naturally astonished; perhaps--himself not suffering much from an excessive sensitiveness--he
may have attributed that little burst of hysterical emotion to the excitement of the evening
increased by a glass or two of punch, and determined therefore never to mention it. "All which,
Doctor," he said, "I thought had been a secret between you and me; and I am sure I would not
have said anything about it for the world." Indeed there was little to cry over, either in
the first reception of the piece or in its subsequent fate. With the offending bailiffs cut
out, the comedy would seem to have been very fairly successful. The proceeds of three of the
evenings were Goldsmith's payment; and in this manner he received £400. Then Griffin published
the play; and from this source Goldsmith received an additional £100; so that altogether he
was very well paid for his work. Moreover he had appealed against the judgment of the pit and
the dramatic critics, by printing in the published edition the bailiff scene which had been
removed from the stage; and the Monthly Review was so extremely kind as to say that "the bailiff
and his blackguard follower appeared intolerable on the stage, yet we are not disgusted with
them in the perusal." Perhaps we have grown less scrupulous since then; but at all events it
would be difficult for anybody nowadays to find anything but good-natured fun in that famous
scene. There is an occasional "damn," it is true; but then English officers have always been
permitted that little playfulness, and these two gentlemen were supposed to "serve in the Fleet;"
while if they had been particularly refined in their speech and manner, how could the author
have aroused Miss Richland's suspicions? It is possible that the two actors who played the
bailiff and his follower may have introduced some vulgar "gag" into their parts; but there
is no warranty for anything of the kind in the play as we now read it.

CHAPTER XIII.

GOLDSMITH IN SOCIETY.

The appearance of the Good-natured Man ushered in a halcyon period in Goldsmith's life. The
Traveller and the Vicar had gained for him only reputation: this new comedy put £500 in his
pocket. Of course that was too big a sum for Goldsmith to have about him long. Four-fifths
of it he immediately expended on the purchase and decoration of a set of chambers in Brick
Court, Middle Temple; with the remainder he appears to have begun a series of entertainments
in this new abode, which were perhaps more remarkable for their mirth than their decorum. There
was no sort of frolic in which Goldsmith would not indulge for the amusement of his guests;
he would sing them songs; he would throw his wig to the ceiling; he would dance a minuet. And
then they had cards, forfeits, blind-man's-buff, until Mr. Blackstone, then engaged on his
Commentaries in the rooms below, was driven nearly mad by the uproar. These parties would seem
to have been of a most nondescript character--chance gatherings of any obscure authors or actors
whom he happened to meet; but from time to time there were more formal entertainments, at which
Johnson, Percy, and similar distinguished persons were present. Then he had his airs of consequence
too. This was his answer to an invitation from Kelly, who was his rival of the hour: "I would
with pleasure accept your kind invitation, but to tell you the truth, my dear boy, my Traveller
has found me a home in so many places, that I am engaged, I believe, three days. Let me see.
To-day I dine with Edmund Burke, to-morrow with Dr. Nugent, and the next day with Topham Beauclerc;
but I'll tell you what I'll do for you, I'll dine with you on Saturday." Kelly told this story
as against Goldsmith; but surely there is not so much ostentation in the reply. Directly after
Tristram Shandy was published, Sterne found himself fourteen deep in dinner engagements: why
should not the author of the Traveller and the Vicar and the Good-natured Man have his engagements
also? And perhaps it was but right that Mr. Kelly, who was after all only a critic and scribbler,
though he had written a play which was for the moment enjoying an undeserved popularity, should
be given to understand that Dr. Goldsmith was not to be asked to a hole-and-corner chop at
a moment's notice. To-day he dines with Mr. Burke; to-morrow with Dr. Nugent; the day after
with Mr. Beauclerc. If you wish to have the honour of his company, you may choose a day after
that; and then, with his new wig, with his coat of Tyrian bloom and blue silk breeches, with
a smart sword at his side, his gold-headed cane in his hand, and his hat under his elbow, he
will present himself in due course. Dr. Goldsmith is announced, and makes his grave bow; this
is the man of genius about whom all the town is talking; the friend of Burke, of Reynolds,
of Johnson, of Hogarth; this is not the ragged Irishman who was some time ago earning a crust
by running errands for an apothecary.

Goldsmith's grand airs, however, were assumed but seldom; and they never imposed on anybody.
His acquaintances treated him with a familiarity which testified rather to his good-nature
than to their good taste. Now and again, indeed, he was prompted to resent this familiarity;
but the effort was not successful. In the "high jinks" to which he good-humouredly resorted
for the entertainment of his guests he permitted a freedom which it was afterwards not very
easy to discard; and as he was always ready to make a butt of himself for the amusement of
his friends and acquaintances, it came to be recognised that anybody was allowed to play off
a joke on "Goldy." The jokes, such of them as have been put on record, are of the poorest sort.
The horse-collar is never far off. One gladly turns from these dismal humours of the tavern
and the club to the picture of Goldsmith's enjoying what he called a "Shoemaker's Holiday"
in the company of one or two chosen intimates. Goldsmith, baited and bothered by the wits of
a public-house, became a different being when he had assumed the guidance of a small party
of chosen friends bent on having a day's frugal pleasure. We are indebted to one Cooke, a neighbour
of Goldsmith's in the Temple, not only for a most interesting description of one of those shoemaker's
holidays, but also for the knowledge that Goldsmith had even now begun writing the Deserted
Village, which was not published till 1770, two years later. Goldsmith, though he could turn
out plenty of manufactured stuff for the booksellers, worked slowly at the special story or
poem with which he meant to "strike for honest fame." This Mr. Cooke, calling on him one morning,
discovered that Goldsmith had that day written these ten lines of the Deserted Village:--

    "Dear lovely bowers of innocence and ease,
    Seats of my youth, when every sport could please,
    How often have I loitered o'er thy green,
    Where humble happiness endeared each scene!

"Come," said he, "let me tell you this is no bad morning's work; and now, my dear boy, if you
are not better engaged, I should be glad to enjoy a shoemaker's holiday with you." "A shoemaker's
holiday," continues the writer of these reminiscences, "was a day of great festivity to poor
Goldsmith, and was spent in the following innocent manner. Three or four of his intimate friends
rendezvoused at his chambers to breakfast about ten o'clock in the morning; at eleven they
proceeded by the City Road and through the fields to Highbury Barn to dinner; about six o'clock
in the evening they adjourned to White Conduit House to drink tea; and concluded by supping
at the Grecian or Temple Exchange coffee-house or at the Globe in Fleet Street. There was a
very good ordinary of two dishes and pastry kept at Highbury Barn about this time at tenpence
per head, including a penny to the waiter; and the company generally consisted of literary
characters, a few Templars, and some citizens who had left off trade. The whole expenses of
the day's fete never exceeded a crown, and oftener were from three-and-sixpence to four shillings;
for which the party obtained good air and exercise, good living, the example of simple manners,
and good conversation."

It would have been well indeed for Goldsmith had he been possessed of sufficient strength of
character to remain satisfied with these simple pleasures, and to have lived the quiet and
modest life of a man of letters on such income as he could derive from the best work he could
produce. But it is this same Mr. Cooke who gives decisive testimony as to Goldsmith's increasing
desire to "shine" by imitating the expenditure of the great; the natural consequence of which
was that he only plunged himself into a morass of debt, advances, contracts for hack-work,
and misery. "His debts rendered him at times so melancholy and dejected, that I am sure he
felt himself a very unhappy man." Perhaps it was with some sudden resolve to flee from temptation,
and grapple with the difficulties that beset him, that he, in conjunction with another Temple
neighbour, Mr. Bott, rented a cottage some eight miles down the Edgware Road; and here he set
to work on the History of Rome, which he was writing for Davies. Apart from this hack-work,
now rendered necessary by his debt, it is probable that one strong inducement leading him to
this occasional seclusion was the progress he might be able to make with the Deserted Village.
Amid all his town gaieties and country excursions, amid his dinners and suppers and dances,
his borrowings, and contracts, and the hurried literary produce of the moment, he never forgot
what was due to his reputation as an English poet. The journalistic bullies of the day might
vent their spleen and envy on him; his best friends might smile at his conversational failures;
the wits of the tavern might put up the horse-collar as before; but at least he had the consolation
of his art. No one better knew than himself the value of those finished and musical lines he
was gradually adding to the beautiful poem, the grace, and sweetness, and tender, pathetic
charm of which make it one of the literary treasures of the English people.

The sorrows of debt were not Goldsmith's only trouble at this time. For some reason or other
he seems to have become the especial object of spiteful attack on the part of the literary
cut-throats of the day. And Goldsmith, though he might listen with respect to the wise advice
of Johnson on such matters, was never able to cultivate Johnson's habit of absolute indifference
to anything that might be said or sung of him.

It was not given to Goldsmith to feel "like the Monument" on any occasion whatsoever. He was
anxious to have the esteem of his friends; he was sensitive to a degree; denunciation or malice,
begotten of envy that Johnson would have passed unheeded, wounded him to the quick. Goldsmith's
revenge, his defence of himself, his appeal to the public, were the Traveller, the Vicar of
Wakefield, the Deserted Village; but these came at long intervals; and in the meantime he had
to bear with the anonymous malignity that pursued him as best he might. No doubt, when Burke
was entertaining him at dinner; and when Johnson was openly deferring to him in conversation
at the Club; and when Reynolds was painting his portrait, he could afford to forget Mr. Kenrick
and the rest of the libelling clan.

The occasions on which Johnson deferred to Goldsmith in conversation were no doubt few; but
at all events the bludgeon of the great Cham would appear to have come down less frequently
on "honest Goldy" than on the other members of that famous coterie. It could come down heavily
enough. "Yes, sir," was the reply, "if he sat next you." Johnson, however, was considerate
towards Goldsmith, partly because of his affection for him, and partly because he saw under
what disadvantages Goldsmith entered the lists. For one thing, the conversation of those evenings
would seem to have drifted continually into the mere definition of phrases. Now Johnson had
spent years of his life, during the compilation of his Dictionary, in doing nothing else but
defining; and, whenever the dispute took a phraseological turn, he had it all his own way.
Goldsmith, on the other hand, was apt to become confused in his eager self-consciousness. "Goldsmith,"
said Johnson to Boswell, "should not be for ever attempting to shine in conversation; he has
not temper for it, he is so much mortified when he fails.... When he contends, if he gets the
better, it is a very little addition to a man of his literary reputation: if he does not get
the better, he is miserably vexed." At supper they have rumps and kidneys. The sage expresses
his approval of "the pretty little things;" but profoundly observes that one must eat a good
many of them before being satisfied. "Ay, but how many of them," asks Goldsmith, "would reach
to the moon?" The sage professes his ignorance; and, indeed, remarks that that would exceed
even Goldsmith's calculations; when the practical joker observes, "Why, one, sir, if it were
long enough." Johnson was completely beaten on this occasion. "Well, sir, I have deserved it.
I should not have provoked so foolish an answer by so foolish a question."

It was Johnson himself, moreover, who told the story of Goldsmith and himself being in Poets'
Corner; of his saying to Goldsmith

    "Forsitan et nostrum nomen miscebitur istis,"

and of Goldsmith subsequently repeating the quotation when, having walked towards Fleet Street,
they were confronted by the heads on Temple Bar. Even when Goldsmith was opinionated and wrong,
Johnson's contradiction was in a manner gentle. "If you put a tub full of blood into a stable,
the horses are like to go mad," observed Goldsmith. "I doubt that," was Johnson's reply. "Nay,
sir, it is a fact well authenticated." Here Thrale interposed to suggest that Goldsmith should
have the experiment tried in the stable; but Johnson merely said that, if Goldsmith began making
these experiments, he would never get his book written at all. Occasionally, of course, Goldsmith
was tossed and gored just like another. But then again he could easily obtain pardon from the
gentle Goldsmith for any occasional rudeness. One evening they had a sharp passage of arms
at dinner; and thereafter the company adjourned to the Club, where Goldsmith sate silent and
depressed. For the rest, Johnson was the constant and doughty champion of Goldsmith as a man
of letters. He would suffer no one to doubt the power and versatility of that genius which
he had been amongst the first to recognise and encourage. "Whether, indeed, we take him as
a poet, as a comic writer, or as an historian," he announced to an assemblage of distinguished
persons met together at dinner at Mr. Beauclerc's, "he stands in the first class." And there
was no one living who dared dispute the verdict--at least in Johnson's hearing.

CHAPTER XIV.

The Deserted Village.

But it is time to return to the literary performances that gained for this uncouth Irishman
so great an amount of consideration from the first men of his time. The engagement with Griffin
about the History of Animated Nature was made at the beginning of 1769. The work was to occupy
eight volumes; and Dr. Goldsmith was to receive eight hundred guineas for the complete copyright.
Whether the undertaking was originally a suggestion of Griffin's, or of Goldsmith's own, does
not appear. If it was the author's, it was probably only the first means that occurred to him
of getting another advance; and that advance--£500 on account--he did actually get. But if
it was the suggestion of the publisher, Griffin must have been a bold man. A writer whose acquaintance
with animated nature was such as to allow him to make the "insidious tiger" a denizen of the
backwoods of Canada,[2] was not a very safe authority. But perhaps Griffin had consulted Johnson
before making this bargain; and we know that Johnson, though continually remarking on Goldsmith's
extraordinary ignorance of facts, was of opinion that the History of Animated Nature would
be "as entertaining as a Persian tale." However, Goldsmith--no doubt after he had spent the
five hundred guineas--tackled the work in earnest. Meanwhile, this Animated Nature being in
hand, the Roman History was published, and was very well received by the critics and by the public.

[Footnote 2: See Citizen of the World, Letter XVII.]

So thought the booksellers too; and the success of the Roman History only involved him in fresh
projects of compilation. By an offer of £500 Davies induced him to lay aside for the moment
the Animated Nature and begin "An History of England, from the Birth of the British Empire
to the death of George the Second, in four volumes octavo." He also about this time undertook
to write a Life of Thomas Parnell. Here, indeed, was plenty of work, and work promising good
pay; but the depressing thing is that Goldsmith should have been the man who had to do it.
He may have done it better than any one else could have done--indeed, looking over the results
of all that drudgery, we recognise now the happy turns of expression which were never long
absent from Goldsmith's prose-writing--but the world could well afford to sacrifice all the
task-work thus got through for another poem like the Deserted Village or the Traveller. Perhaps
Goldsmith considered he was making a fair compromise when, for the sake of his reputation,
he devoted a certain portion of his time to his poetical work, and then, to have money for
fine clothes and high jinks, gave the rest to the booksellers. One critic, on the appearance
of the Roman History, referred to the Traveller, and remarked that it was a pity that the "author
of one of the best poems that has appeared since those of Mr. Pope, should not apply wholly
to works of imagination." We may echo that regret now; but Goldsmith would at the time have
no doubt replied that, if he had trusted to his poems, he would never have been able to pay
£400 for chambers in the Temple. In fact he said as much to Lord Lisburn at one of the Academy
dinners: "I cannot afford to court the draggle-tail muses, my Lord; they would let me starve;
but by my other labours I can make shift to eat, and drink, and have good clothes." And there
is little use in our regretting now that Goldsmith was not cast in a more heroic mould; we
have to take him as he is; and be grateful for what he has left us.

It is a grateful relief to turn from these booksellers' contracts and forced labours to the
sweet clear note of singing that one finds in the Deserted Village. This poem, after having
been repeatedly announced and as often withdrawn for further revision, was at last published
on the 26th of May, 1770, when Goldsmith was in his forty-second year. The leading idea of
it he had already thrown out in certain lines in the Traveller:--

    "Have we not seen, round Britain's peopled shore,
    Her useful sons exchanged for useless ore?
    Seen all her triumphs but destruction haste,
    Like flaring tapers brightening as they waste? We need
not stay here to discuss Goldsmith's position as a political
economist; even although Johnson seems to sanction his theory in the
four lines he contributed to the end of the poem. Nor is it worth
while returning to that objection of Lord Macaulay's which has already
been mentioned in these pages, further than to repeat that the poor
Irish village in which Goldsmith was brought up, no doubt looked to
him as charming as any Auburn, when he regarded it through the
softening and beautifying mist of years. It is enough that the
abandonment by a number of poor people of the homes in which they and
theirs have lived their lives, is one of the most pathetic facts in
our civilisation; and that out of the various circumstances
surrounding this forced migration Goldsmith has made one of the most
graceful and touching poems in the English language. It is clear
bird-singing; but there is a pathetic note in it. That imaginary
ramble through the Lissoy that is far away has recalled more than his
boyish sports; it has made him look back over his own life--the life
of an exile.

Who can doubt that it was of Lissoy he was thinking? But indeed it is of little consequence
whether we say that Auburn is an English village, or insist that it is only Lissoy idealised,
as long as the thing is true in itself. And we know that this is true: it is not that one sees
the place as a picture, but that one seems to be breathing its very atmosphere, and listening
to the various cries that thrill the "hollow silence."

Nor is it any romantic and impossible peasantry that is gradually brought before us. There
are no Norvals in Lissoy. There is the old woman--Catherine Geraghty, they say, was her name--who
gathered cresses in the ditches near her cabin. There is the village preacher whom Mrs. Hodson,
Goldsmith's sister, took to be a portrait of their father; but whom others have identified
as Henry Goldsmith, and even as the uncle Contarine: they may all have contributed. And then
comes Paddy Byrne. Amid all the pensive tenderness of the poem this description of the schoolmaster,
with its strokes of demure humour, is introduced with delightful effect.

All this is so simple and natural that we cannot fail to believe in the reality of Auburn,
or Lissoy, or whatever the village may be supposed to be. We visit the clergyman's cheerful
fireside; and look in on the noisy school; and sit in the evening in the ale house to listen
to the profound politics talked there. But the crisis comes. Auburn delenda est. Here, no doubt,
occurs the least probable part of the poem. Poverty of soil is a common cause of emigration;
land that produces oats (when it can produce oats at all) three-fourths mixed with weeds, and
hay chiefly consisting of rushes, naturally discharges its surplus population as families increase;
and though the wrench of parting is painful enough, the usual result is a change from starvation
to competence. It more rarely happens that a district of peace and plenty, such as Auburn was
supposed to see around it, is depopulated to add to a great man's estate. This seldom happens;
but it does happen; and it has happened, in our own day, in England. It is within the last
twenty years that an English landlord, having faith in his riches, bade a village be removed
and cast elsewhere, so that it should no longer be visible from his windows: and it was forthwith
removed. But any solitary instance like this is not sufficient to support the theory that wealth
and luxury are inimical to the existence of a hardy peasantry; and so we must admit, after
all, that it is poetical exigency rather than political economy that has decreed the destruction
of the loveliest village of the plain. Where, asks the poet, are the driven poor to find refuge,
when even the fenceless commons are seized upon and divided by the rich? In the great cities?--

    "To see profusion that he must not share;
    To see ten thousand baneful arts combined
    To pamper luxury and thin mankind."

It is in this description of a life in cities that there occurs an often-quoted passage, which
has in it one of the most perfect lines in English poetry:--

                                    "Ah, turn thine eyes
    Where the poor houseless shivering female lies.

Goldsmith wrote in a pre-Wordsworthian age, when, even in the realms of poetry, a primrose
was not much more than a primrose; but it is doubtful whether, either before, during, or since
Wordsworth's time the sentiment that the imagination can infuse into the common and familiar
things around us ever received more happy expression than in the well-known line,

    "Sweet as the primrose peeps beneath the thorn."

No one has as yet succeeded in defining accurately and concisely what poetry is; but at all
events this line is surcharged with a certain quality which is conspicuously absent in such
a production as the Essay on Man.

Indeed, the pathetic side of emigration has never been so powerfully presented to us as in
this poem--

    "When the poor exiles, every pleasure past,
    Hung round the bowers, and fondly looked their last,
    And took a long farewell, and wished in vain
    For seats like these beyond the western main,
    And shuddering still to face the distant deep,
    Returned and wept, and still returned to weep.

And worst of all, in this imaginative departure, we find that Poetry herself is leaving our shores.

So ends this graceful, melodious, tender poem, the position of which in English literature,
and in the estimation of all who love English literature, has not been disturbed by any fluctuations
of literary fashion. We may give more attention at the moment to the new experiments of the
poetic method; but we return only with renewed gratitude to the old familiar strain, not the
least merit of which is that it has nothing about it of foreign tricks or graces. In English
literature there is nothing more thoroughly English than these writings produced by an Irishman.
And whether or not it was Paddy Byrne, and Catherine Geraghty, and the Lissoy ale-house that
Goldsmith had in his mind when he was writing the poem, is not of much consequence: the manner
and language and feeling are all essentially English; so that we never think of calling Goldsmith
anything but an English poet.

The poem met with great and immediate success. Of course everything that Dr. Goldsmith now
wrote was read by the public; he had not to wait for the recommendation of the reviews; but,
in this case, even the reviews had scarcely anything but praise in the welcome of his new book.
What Goldsmith got from Griffin for the poem is not accurately known; and this is a misfortune,
for the knowledge would have enabled us to judge whether at that time it was possible for a
poet to court the draggle-tail muses without risk of starvation. But if fame were his chief
object in the composition of the poem, he was sufficiently rewarded; and it is to be surmised
that by this time the people in Ireland--no longer implored to get subscribers--had heard of
the proud position won by the vagrant youth who had "taken the world for his pillow" some eighteen
years before.

That his own thoughts had sometimes wandered back to the scenes and friends of his youth during
this labour of love, we know from his letters. In January of this year, while as yet the Deserted
Village was not quite through the press, he wrote to his brother Maurice; and expressed himself
as most anxious to hear all about the relatives from whom he had been so long parted. "Honours
to one in my situation are something like ruffles to a man that wants a shirt." However, there
is some small legacy of fourteen or fifteen pounds left him by his uncle Contarine, which he
understands to be in the keeping of his cousin Lawder; and to this wealth he is desirous of
foregoing all claim: his relations must settle how it may be best expended. But there is not
a reference to his literary achievements, or the position won by them; not the slightest yielding
to even a pardonable vanity; it is a modest, affectionate letter. The only hint that Maurice
Goldsmith receives of the esteem in which his brother is held in London, is contained in a
brief mention of Johnson, Burke, and others as his friends. The letter winds up with an appeal
for news, news, news.

CHAPTER XV.

OCCASIONAL WRITINGS.

Some two months after the publication of the Deserted Village, when its success had been well
assured, Goldsmith proposed to himself the relaxation of a little Continental tour; and he
was accompanied by three ladies, Mrs. Horneck and her two pretty daughters, who doubtless took
more charge of him than he did of them. This Mrs. Horneck, the widow of a certain Captain Horneck,
was connected with Reynolds, while Burke was the guardian of the two girls; so that it was
natural that they should make the acquaintance of Dr. Goldsmith. A foolish attempt has been
made to weave out of the relations supposed to exist between the younger of the girls and Goldsmith
an imaginary romance; but there is not the slightest actual foundation for anything of the kind.

       *       *       *       *       *

                Yet how can I when vext
                Thus stray from my text?
    But, alas! your good worships, how could they be wiser,
    When both have been spoiled in to-day's Advertiser?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"The Jessamy Bride" was the pet nickname he had bestowed on the younger Miss Horneck--the heroine
of the speculative romance just mentioned; "Little Comedy" was her sister; "the Captain in
lace" their brother, who was in the Guards. No doubt Mrs. Horneck and her daughters were very
pleased to have with them on this Continental trip so distinguished a person as Dr. Goldsmith;
and he must have been very ungrateful if he was not glad to be provided with such charming
companions. The story of the sudden envy he displayed of the admiration excited by the two
handsome young Englishwomen as they stood at a hotel-window in Lille, is so incredibly foolish
that it needs scarcely be repeated here; unless to repeat the warning that, if ever anybody
was so dense as not to see the humour of that piece of acting, one had better look with grave
suspicion on every one of the stories told about Goldsmith's vanities and absurdities.

Even with such pleasant companions, the trip to Paris was not everything he had hoped. The
fact is that although Goldsmith had seen a good deal of foreign travel, the manner of his making
the grand tour in his youth was not such as to fit him for acting as courier to a party of
ladies. However, if they increased his troubles, they also shared them; and in this same letter
he bears explicit testimony to the value of their companionship. Mrs. Horneck, Little Comedy,
the Jessamy Bride, and the Professor of Ancient History at the Royal Academy, all returned
to London; the last to resume his round of convivialities at taverns, excursions into regions
of more fashionable amusement along with Reynolds, and task-work aimed at the pockets of the
booksellers.

It was a happy-go-lucky sort of life. We find him now showing off his fine clothes and his
sword and wig at Ranelagh Gardens, and again shut up in his chambers compiling memoirs and
histories in hot haste; now the guest of Lord Clare, and figuring at Bath, and again delighting
some small domestic circle by his quips and cranks; playing jokes for the amusement of children,
and writing comic letters in verse to their elders; everywhere and at all times merry, thoughtless,
good-natured. And, of course, we find also his humorous pleasantries being mistaken for blundering
stupidity. In perfect good faith Boswell describes how a number of people burst out laughing
when Goldsmith publicly complained that he had met Lord Camden at Lord Clare's house in the
country, "and he took no more notice of me than if I had been an ordinary man." Goldsmith's
claiming to be a very extraordinary person was precisely a stroke of that humorous self-depreciation
in which he was continually indulging; and the Jessamy Bride has left it on record that "on
many occasions, from the peculiar manner of his humour, and assumed frown of countenance, what
was often uttered in jest was mistaken by those who did not know him for earnest." This would
appear to have been one of those occasions. The company burst out laughing at Goldsmith's having
made a fool of himself; and Johnson was compelled to come to his rescue.

Mention of Lord Clare naturally recalls the Haunch of Venison. Goldsmith was particularly happy
in writing bright and airy verses; the grace and lightness of his touch has rarely been approached.
It must be confessed, however, that in this direction he was somewhat of an Autolycus; unconsidered
trifles he freely appropriated; but he committed these thefts with scarcely any concealment,
and with the most charming air in the world. In fact some of the snatches of verse which he
contributed to the Bee scarcely profess to be anything else than translations, though the originals
are not given. But who is likely to complain when we get as the result such a delightful piece
of nonsense as the famous Elegy on that Glory of her Sex, Mrs. Mary Blaize, which has been
the parent of a vast progeny since Goldsmith's time?

The Haunch of Venison, on the other hand, is a poetical letter of thanks to Lord Clare--an
easy, jocular epistle, in which the writer has a cut or two at certain of his literary brethren.
Then, as he is looking at the venison, and determining not to send it to any such people as
Hiffernan or Higgins, who should step in but our old friend Beau Tibbs, or some one remarkably
like him in manner and speech?--

    "While thus I debated, in reverie centred,
    An acquaintance, a friend as he called himself, entered;
    An under-bred, fine-spoken fellow was he,
    And he smiled as he looked at the venison and me.
    'What have we got here?--Why this is good eating!

We need not follow the vanished venison--which did not make its appearance at the banquet any
more than did Johnson or Burke--further than to say that if Lord Clare did not make it good
to the poet he did not deserve to have his name associated with such a clever and careless
jeu d'esprit.

CHAPTER XVI.

SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER.

But the writing of smart verses could not keep Dr. Goldsmith alive, more especially as dinner-parties,
Ranelagh masquerades, and similar diversions pressed heavily on his finances. When his History
of England appeared, the literary cut-throats of the day accused him of having been bribed
by the Government to betray the liberties of the people:[3] a foolish charge. What Goldsmith
got for the English History was the sum originally stipulated for, and now no doubt all spent;
with a further sum of fifty guineas for an abridgment of the work. Then, by this time, he had
persuaded Griffin to advance him the whole of the eight hundred guineas for the Animated Nature,
though he had only done about a third part of the book. At the instigation of Newbery he had
begun a story after the manner of the Vicar of Wakefield; but it appears that such chapters
as he had written were not deemed to be promising; and the undertaking was abandoned. The fact
is, Goldsmith was now thinking of another method of replenishing his purse. The Vicar of Wakefield
had brought him little but reputation; the Good-natured Man had brought him £500. It was to
the stage that he now looked for assistance out of the financial slough in which he was plunged.
He was engaged in writing a comedy; and that comedy was She Stoops to Conquer. Colman threw
cold water on the undertaking from the very beginning. It was only extreme pressure on the
part of Goldsmith's friends that induced--or rather compelled--him to accept the comedy; and
that, after he had kept the unfortunate author in the tortures of suspense for month after
month. But although Goldsmith knew the danger, he was resolved to face it. He hated the sentimentalists
and all their works; and determined to keep his new comedy faithful to nature, whether people
called it low or not. His object was to raise a genuine, hearty laugh; not to write a piece
for school declamation; and he had enough confidence in himself to do the work in his own way.
Moreover he took the earliest possible opportunity, in writing this piece, of poking fun at
the sensitive creatures who had been shocked by the "vulgarity" of The Good-natured Man. "Bravo!
Bravo!" cry the jolly companions of Tony Lumpkin, when that promising buckeen has finished
his song at the Three Pigeons; then follows criticism:--

     "First Fellow. The squire has got spunk in him.

     Second Fel. I loves to hear him sing, bekeays he never
     gives us nothing that's low.

     Third Fel. O damn anything that's low, I cannot bear it.

     Fourth Fel.

     Third Fel. I likes the maxum of it, Master Muggins.

Indeed, Goldsmith, however he might figure in society, was always capable of holding his own
when he had his pen in his hand. And even at the outset of this comedy one sees how much he
has gained in literary confidence since the writing of the Good-natured Man. Here there is
no anxious stiffness at all; but a brisk, free conversation, full of point that is not too
formal, and yet conveying all the information that has usually to be crammed into a first scene.
In taking as the groundwork of his plot that old adventure that had befallen himself--his mistaking
a squire's house for an inn--he was hampering himself with something that was not the less
improbable because it had actually happened; but we begin to forget all the improbabilities
through the naturalness of the people to whom we are introduced, and the brisk movement and
life of the piece.

Fashions in dramatic literature may come and go; but the wholesome good-natured fun of She
Stoops to Conquer is as capable of producing a hearty laugh now, as it was when it first saw
the light in Covent Garden. Tony Lumpkin is one of the especial favourites of the theatre-going
public; and no wonder. With all the young cub's jibes and jeers, his impudence and grimaces,
one has a sneaking love for the scapegrace; we laugh with him, rather than at him; how can
we fail to enjoy those malevolent tricks of his when he so obviously enjoys them himself? And
Diggory--do we not owe an eternal debt of gratitude to honest Diggory for telling us about
Ould Grouse in the gunroom, that immortal joke at which thousands and thousands of people have
roared with laughter, though they never any one of them could tell what the story was about?
The scene in which the old squire lectures his faithful attendants on their manners and duties,
is one of the truest bits of comedy on the English stage:

     "Mr. Hardcastle. But you're not to stand so, with your
     hands in your pockets. Take your hands from your pockets,
     Roger; and from your head, you blockhead you. See how
     Diggory carries his hands. They're a little too stiff,
     indeed, but that's no great matter.

     Diggory. Ay, mind how I hold them. I learned to hold my
     hands this way when I was upon drill for the militia. And so
     being upon drill--.

     Hard. You must not be so talkative, Diggory. You must be
     all attention to the guests. You must hear us talk, and not
     think of talking; you must see us drink, and not think of
     drinking; you must see us eat, and not think of eating.

     Dig. By the laws, your worship, that's parfectly
     unpossible. Whenever Diggory sees yeating going forward,
     ecod, he's always wishing for a mouthful himself.

     Hard. Blockhead! Is not a bellyfull in the kitchen as good
     as a bellyfull in the parlour? Stay your stomach with that
     reflection.

     Dig. Ecod, I thank your worship, I'll make a shift to stay
     my stomach with a slice of cold beef in the pantry.

     Hard. Diggory, you are too talkative.--Then, if I happen
     to say a good thing, or tell a good story at table, you must
     not all burst out a-laughing, as if you made part of the
     company.

     Dig. Then ecod your worship must not tell the story of
     Ould Grouse in the gunroom: I can't help laughing at
     that--he! he! he!--for the soul of me. We have laughed at
     that these twenty years--ha! ha! ha!

     Hard. Ha! ha! ha! The story is a good one. Well, honest
     Diggory, you may laugh at that--but still remember to be
     attentive. Suppose one of the company should call for a
     glass of wine, how will you behave? A glass of wine, sir,
     if-you please (to DIGGORY).--Eh, why don't you move?

     Dig. Ecod, your worship, I never have courage till I see
     the eatables and drinkables brought upo' the table, and then
     I'm as bauld as a lion.

     Hard. What, will nobody move?

     First Serv. I'm not to leave this pleace.

     Second Serv. I'm sure it's no pleace of mine.

     Third Serv. Nor mine, for sartain.

     Dig. Wauns, and I'm sure it canna be mine."

No doubt all this is very "low" indeed; and perhaps Mr. Colman may be forgiven for suspecting
that the refined wits of the day would be shocked by these rude humours of a parcel of servants.
But all that can be said in this direction was said at the time by Horace Walpole, in a letter
to a friend of his; and this criticism is so amusing in its pretence and imbecility that it
is worth quoting at large. Horace Walpole sighing for edification--from a Covent Garden comedy!
Surely, if the old gods have any laughter left, and if they take any notice of what is done
in the literary world here below, there must have rumbled through the courts of Olympus a guffaw
of sardonic laughter, when that solemn criticism was put down on paper.

Meanwhile Colman's original fears had developed into a sort of stupid obstinacy. He was so
convinced that the play would not succeed, that he would spend no money in putting it on the
stage; while far and wide he announced its failure as a foregone conclusion. Under this gloom
of vaticination the rehearsals were nevertheless proceeded with--the brunt of the quarrels
among the players falling wholly on Goldsmith, for the manager seems to have withdrawn in despair;
while all the Johnson confraternity were determined to do what they could for Goldsmith on
the opening night. That was the 15th of March, 1773. His friends invited the author to dinner
as a prelude to the play; Dr. Johnson was in the chair; there was plenty of gaiety. But this
means of keeping up the anxious author's spirits was not very successful. Goldsmith's mouth,
we are told by Reynolds, became so parched "from the agitation of his mind, that he was unable
to swallow a single mouthful." Moreover, he could not face the ordeal of sitting through the
play; when his friends left the tavern and betook themselves to the theatre, he went away by
himself; and was subsequently found walking in St. James's Park. The friend who discovered
him there, persuaded him that his presence in the theatre might be useful in case of an emergency;
and ultimately got him to accompany him to Covent Garden. When Goldsmith reached the theatre,
the fifth act had been begun.

Oddly enough, the first thing he heard on entering the stage-door was a hiss. The story goes
that the poor author was dreadfully frightened; and that in answer to a hurried question, Colman
exclaimed, "Psha! Doctor, don't be afraid of a squib, when we have been sitting these two hours
on a barrel of gunpowder." If this was meant as a hoax, it was a cruel one; if meant seriously,
it was untrue. For the piece had turned out a great hit. From beginning to end of the performance
the audience were in a roar of laughter; and the single hiss that Goldsmith unluckily heard
was so markedly exceptional, that it became the talk of the town, and was variously attributed
to one or other of Goldsmith's rivals. Colman, too, suffered at the hands of the wits for his
gloomy and falsified predictions; and had, indeed, to beg Goldsmith to intercede for him. It
is a great pity that Boswell was not in London at this time; for then we might have had a description
of the supper that naturally would follow the play, and of Goldsmith's demeanour under this
new success. Besides the gratification, moreover, of his choice of materials being approved
by the public, there was the material benefit accruing to him from the three "author's nights."
These are supposed to have produced nearly five hundred pounds--a substantial sum in those days.

Boswell did not come to London till the second of April following; and the first mention we
find of Goldsmith is in connection with an incident which has its ludicrous as well as its
regrettable aspect. The further success of She Stoops to Conquer was not likely to propitiate
the wretched hole-and-corner cut-throats that infested the journalism of that day. More especially
was Kenrick driven mad with envy; and so, in a letter addressed to the London Packet, this
poor creature determined once more to set aside the judgment of the public, and show Dr. Goldsmith
in his true colours. The letter is a wretched production, full of personalities only fit for
an angry washerwoman, and of rancour without point. But there was one passage in it that effectually
roused Goldsmith's rage; for here the Jessamy Bride was introduced as "the lovely H----k."
The letter was anonymous; but the publisher of the print, a man called Evans, was known; and
so Goldsmith thought he would go and give Evans a beating. If he had asked Johnson's advice
about the matter, he would no doubt have been told to pay no heed at all to anonymous scurrility--certainly
not to attempt to reply to it with a cudgel. When Johnson heard that Foote meant to "take him
off," he turned to Davies and asked him what was the common price of an oak stick; but an oak
stick in Johnson's hands, and an oak stick in Goldsmith's Lands, were two different things.
However, to the bookseller's shop the indignant poet proceeded, in company with a friend; got
hold of Evans; accused him of having insulted a young lady by putting her name in his paper;
and, when the publisher would fain have shifted the responsibility on to the editor, forthwith
denounced him as a rascal, and hit him over the back with his cane. The publisher, however,
was quite a match for Goldsmith; and there is no saying how the deadly combat might have ended,
had not a lamp been broken overhead, the oil of which drenched both the warriors. This intervention
of the superior gods was just as successful as a Homeric cloud; the fray ceased; Goldsmith
and his friend withdrew; and ultimately an action for assault was compromised by Goldsmith's
paying fifty pounds to a charity. Then the howl of the journals arose. Their prerogative had
been assailed. "Attacks upon private character were the most liberal existing source of newspaper
income," Mr. Forster writes; and so the pack turned with one cry on the unlucky poet. There
was nothing of "the Monument" about poor Goldsmith; and at last he was worried into writing
a letter of defence addressed to the public. "He has indeed done it very well," said Johnson
to Boswell, "but it is a foolish thing well done." And further he remarked, "Why, sir, I believe
it is the first time he has beat; he may have been beaten before. This, sir, is a new plume
to him."

CHAPTER XVII.

INCREASING DIFFICULTIES.--THE END.

The pecuniary success of She Stoops to Conquer did but little to relieve Goldsmith from those
financial embarrassments which were now weighing heavily on his mind. And now he had less of
the old high spirits that had enabled him to laugh off the cares of debt. His health became
disordered; an old disease renewed its attacks, and was grown more violent because of his long-continued
sedentary habits. Indeed, from this point to the day of his death--not a long interval, either--we
find little but a record of successive endeavours, some of them wild and hopeless enough, to
obtain money anyhow. Of course he went to the Club, as usual; and gave dinner-parties; and
had a laugh or a song ready for the occasion. It is possible, also, to trace a certain growth
of confidence in himself, no doubt the result of the repeated proofs of his genius he had put
before his friends. It was something more than mere personal intimacy that justified the rebuke
he administered to Reynolds, when the latter painted an allegorical picture representing the
triumph of Beattie and Truth over Voltaire and Scepticism. He was aware, too, of the position
he had won for himself in English literature. He knew that people in after-days would ask about
him; and it was with no sort of unwarrantable vainglory that he gave Percy certain materials
for a biography which he wished him to undertake. Hence the Percy Memoir.

He was only forty-five when he made this request; and he had not suffered much from illness
during his life; so that there was apparently no grounds for imagining that the end was near.
But at this time Goldsmith began to suffer severe fits of depression; and he grew irritable
and capricious of temper--no doubt another result of failing health. He was embroiled in disputes
with the booksellers; and, on one occasion, seems to have been much hurt because Johnson, who
had been asked to step in as arbiter, decided against him. He was offended with Johnson on
another occasion because of his sending away certain dishes at a dinner given to him by Goldsmith,
as a hint that these entertainments were too luxurious for one in Goldsmith's position. It
was probably owing to some temporary feeling of this sort--perhaps to some expression of it
on Goldsmith's part--that Johnson spoke of Goldsmith's "malice" towards him. Mrs. Thrale had
suggested that Goldsmith would be the best person to write Johnson's biography. Of course it
is always impossible to say what measure of jocular exaggeration there may not be in a chance
phrase such as this: of the fact that there was no serious or permanent quarrel between the
two friends we have abundant proof in Boswell's faithful pages.

To return to the various endeavours made by Goldsmith and his friends to meet the difficulties
now closing in around him, we find, first of all, the familiar hack-work. For two volumes of
a History of Greece he had received from Griffin £250. Then his friends tried to get him a
pension from the Government; but this was definitely refused. An expedient of his own seemed
to promise well at first. He thought of bringing out a Popular Dictionary of Arts and Sciences,
a series of contributions mostly by his friends, with himself as editor; and among those who
offered to assist him were Johnson, Reynolds, Burke, and Dr. Burney. But the booksellers were
afraid. The project would involve a large expense; and they had no high opinion of Goldsmith's
business habits. Then he offered to alter The Good-natured Man for Garrick; but Garrick preferred
to treat with him for a new comedy, and generously allowed him to draw on him for the money
in advance. This last help enabled him to go to Barton for a brief holiday; but the relief
was only temporary. On his return to London even his nearest friends began to observe the change
in his manner. In the old days Goldsmith had faced pecuniary difficulties with a light heart;
but now, his health broken, and every avenue of escape apparently closed, he was giving way
to despair. His friend Cradock, coming up to town, found Goldsmith in a most despondent condition;
and also hints that the unhappy author was trying to conceal the true state of affairs. "I
believe," says Cradock, "he died miserable, and that his friends were not entirely aware of
his distress."

And yet it was during this closing period of anxiety, despondency, and gloomy foreboding, that
the brilliant and humorous lines of Retaliation were written--that last scintillation of the
bright and happy genius that was soon to be extinguished for ever. The most varied accounts
have been given of the origin of this jeu d'esprit; and even Garrick's, which was meant to
supersede and correct all others, is self-contradictory. For according to this version of the
story, which was found among the Garrick papers, and which is printed in Mr. Cunningham's edition
of Goldsmith's works, the whole thing arose out of Goldsmith and Garrick resolving one evening
at the St. James's Coffee House to write each other's epitaph. But Garrick himself goes on
to say, "The following poems in manuscript were written by several of the gentlemen on purpose
to provoke the Doctor to an answer, which came forth at last with great credit to him in Retaliation."
The most probable version of the story, which may be pieced together from various sources,
is that at the coffee-house named this business of writing comic epitaphs was started some
evening or other by the whole company; that Goldsmith and Garrick pitted themselves against
each other; that thereafter Goldsmith began as occasion served to write similar squibs about
his friends, which were shown about as they were written; that thereupon those gentlemen, not
to be behindhand, composed more elaborate pieces in proof of their wit; and that, finally,
Goldsmith resolved to bind these fugitive lines of his together in a poem, which he left unfinished,
and which, under the name of Retaliation, was published after his death. This hypothetical
account receives some confirmation from the fact that the scheme of the poem and its component
parts do not fit together well; the introduction looks like an after-thought; and has not the
freedom and pungency of a piece of improvisation. An imaginary dinner is described, the guests
being Garrick, Reynolds, Burke, Cumberland, and the rest of them, Goldsmith last of all. More
wine is called for, until the whole of his companions have fallen beneath the table:

    "Then, with chaos and blunders encircling my head,
    Let me ponder, and tell what I think of the dead."

This is a somewhat clumsy excuse for introducing a series of epitaphs;
but the epitaphs amply atone for it.
    How did Grub Street re-echo the shouts that you raised,
    While he was be-Rosciused, and you were bepraised.

The truth is that Goldsmith, though he was ready to bless his "honest little man" when he received
from him sixty pounds in advance for a comedy not begun, never took quite so kindly to Garrick
as to some of his other friends. There is no pretence of discrimination at all, for example,
in the lines devoted in this poem to Reynolds. All the generous enthusiasm of Goldsmith's Irish
nature appears here; he will admit of no possible rival to this especial friend of his:--

    "Here Reynolds is laid, and to tell you my mind,
    He has not left a wiser or better behind."

There is a tradition that the epitaph on Reynolds, ending with the unfinished line

    "By flattery unspoiled ..."

was Goldsmith's last piece of writing. One would like to believe that, in any case.

Goldsmith had returned to his Edgware lodgings, and had, indeed, formed some notion of selling
his chambers in the Temple, and living in the country for at least ten months in the year,
when a sudden attack of his old disorder drove him into town again for medical advice. He would
appear to have received some relief; but a nervous fever followed; and on the night of the
25th March, 1774, when he was but forty-six years of age, he took to his bed for the last time.
At first he refused to regard his illness as serious; and insisted on dosing himself with certain
fever-powders from which he had received benefit on previous occasions; but by and by as his
strength gave way, he submitted to the advice of the physicians who were in attendance on him.
Day after day passed; his weakness visibly increasing, though, curiously enough, the symptoms
of fever were gradually abating. At length one of the doctors, remarking to him that his pulse
was in greater disorder than it should be from the degree of fever, asked him if his mind was
at ease. "No, it is not," answered Goldsmith; and these were his last words. Early in the morning
of Monday, April 4, convulsions set in; these continued for rather more than an hour; then
the troubled brain and the sick heart found rest for ever.

When the news was carried to his friends, Burke, it is said, burst into tears, and Reynolds
put aside his work for the day. But it does not appear that they had visited him during his
illness; and neither Johnson, nor Reynolds, nor Burke, nor Garrick followed his body to the
grave. It is true, a public funeral was talked of; and, among others, Reynolds, Burke, and
Garrick were to have carried the pall; but this was abandoned; and Goldsmith was privately
buried in the ground of the Temple Church on the 9th of April, 1774. Strangely enough, too,
Johnson seems to have omitted all mention of Goldsmith from his letters to Boswell.

But if the greatest grief at the sudden and premature death of Goldsmith would seem to have
been shown at the moment by certain wretched creatures who were found weeping on the stairs
leading to his chambers, it must not be supposed that his fine friends either forgot him, or
ceased to regard his memory with a great gentleness and kindness. Some two years after, when
a monument was about to be erected to Goldsmith in Westminster Abbey, Johnson consented to
write "the poor dear Doctor's epitaph;" and so anxious were the members of that famous circle
in which Goldsmith had figured, that a just tribute should be paid to his genius, that they
even ventured to send a round robin to the great Cham desiring him to amend his first draft.
Now, perhaps, we have less interest in Johnson's estimate of Goldsmith's genius--though it
contains the famous Nullum quod tetigit non ornavit--than in the phrases which tell of the
honour paid to the memory of the dead poet by the love of his companions and the faithfulness
of his friends. It may here be added that the precise spot where Goldsmith was buried in the
Temple churchyard is unknown. So lived and so died Oliver Goldsmith.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the foregoing pages the writings of Goldsmith have been given so prominent a place in the
history of his life that it is unnecessary to take them here collectively and endeavour to
sum up their distinctive qualities. As much as could be said within the limited space has,
it is hoped, been said about their genuine and tender pathos, that never at any time verges
on the affected or theatrical; about their quaint delicate, delightful humour; about that broader
humour that is not afraid to provoke the wholesome laughter of mankind by dealing with common
and familiar ways, and manners, and men; about that choiceness of diction, that lightness and
grace of touch, that lend a charm even to Goldsmith's ordinary hack-work.

Still less necessary, perhaps, is it to review the facts and circumstances of Goldsmith's life;
and to make of them an example, a warning, or an accusation. That has too often been done.
His name has been used to glorify a sham Bohemianism--a Bohemianism that finds it easy to live
in taverns, but does not find it easy, so far as one sees, to write poems like the Deserted
Village. His experiences as an author have been brought forward to swell the cry about neglected
genius--that is, by writers who assume their genius in order to prove the neglect. The misery
that occasionally befell him during his wayward career has been made the basis of an accusation
against society, the English constitution, Christianity--Heaven knows what. It is time to have
done with all this nonsense. Goldsmith resorted to the hack-work of literature when everything
else had failed him; and he was fairly paid for it. When he did better work, when he "struck
for honest fame," the nation gave him all the honour that he could have desired. With an assured
reputation, and with ample means of subsistence, he obtained entrance into the most distinguished
society then in England--he was made the friend of England's greatest in the arts and literature--and
could have confined himself to that society exclusively if he had chosen. His temperament,
no doubt, exposed him to suffering; and the exquisite sensitiveness of a man of genius may
demand our sympathy; but in far greater measure is our sympathy demanded for the thousands
upon thousands of people who, from illness or nervous excitability, suffer from quite as keen
a sensitiveness without the consolation of the fame that genius brings.

In plain truth, Goldsmith himself would have been the last to put forward pleas humiliating
alike to himself and to his calling. Instead of beseeching the State to look after authors;
instead of imploring society to grant them "recognition;" instead of saying of himself "he
wrote, and paid the penalty;" he would frankly have admitted that he chose to live his life
his own way, and therefore paid the penalty. This is not written with any desire of upbraiding
Goldsmith. He did choose to live his own life his own way, and we now have the splendid and
beautiful results of his work; and the world--looking at these with a constant admiration,
and with a great and lenient love for their author--is not anxious to know what he did with
his guineas, or whether the milkman was ever paid. "He had raised money and squandered it,
by every artifice of acquisition and folly of expense. BUT LET NOT HIS FRAILTIES BE REMEMBERED:
HE WAS A VERY GREAT MAN." This is Johnson's wise summing up; and with it we may here take leave
of gentle Goldsmith.

THE END.

