CALIFORNIA SKETCHES

New Series.

By O. P. Fitzgerald

With an Introduction by Bishop George F. Pierce.

The bearded men in rude attire, With nerves of steel and hearts of fire, The women few but
fair and sweet, Like shadowy visions dim and fleet, Again I see, again I hear, As down the
past I dimly peer, And muse o'er buried joy and pain, And tread the hills of youth again.

1883.

A Word.

Encores are usually anticlimaxes. I never did like them. Yet here I am again before the public
with another book of "California Sketches." The kind treatment given to the former volume,
of which six editions have been printed and sold; the expressed wishes of many friends who
have said, Give us another book; and my own impulse, have induced me to venture upon a second
appearance. If much of the song is in the minor key, it had to be so: these Sketches are from
real life, and "all lives are tragedies."

The Author.

Nashville, September, 1881.

Introduction.

The first issue of the "California Sketches" was very popular, deservedly so. The distinguished
Author has prepared a Second Series. In this fact the reading public will rejoice.

In these hooks we have the romance and prestige of fiction; the thrill of incident and adventure;
the wonderful phases of society in a new country, and under the pressure of strong and peculiar
excitements; human character loose from the restraints of an old civilization--a settled order
of things; individuality unwarped by imitation--free, varied, independent. The materials are
rich, and they are embodied in a glowing narrative. The writer himself lived amid the scenes
and the people he describes, and, as a citizen, a preacher, and an editor, was an important
factor among the forces destined to mold the elements which were to be formulated in the politics
of the State and the enterprises of the Church. A close observer, gifted with a keen discrimination
and retentive memory, a decided relish for the ludicrous and the sportive, and always ready
to give a religions turn to thought and conversation, he is admirably adapted to portray and
recite what he saw, heard, and felt.

These Sketches furnish good reading for anybody. For the young they are charming, full of entertainment,
and not wanting in moral instruction. They will gratify the taste of those who love to read,
and, what is more important, beget the appetite for books among the dull and indifferent. He
who can stimulate children and young men and women to read renders a signal service to society
at large. Mental growth depends much upon reading, and the fertilization of the original soil
by the habit wisely directed connects vitally with the outcome and harvest of the future.

Dr. Fitzgerald is doing good service in the work already done, and I trust the patronage of
the people will encourage him to give us another and another of the same sort. At my house
we all read the "California Sketches"--old and young--and long for more.

G. F. Pierce.

Contents.

Dick The Diggers The California Mad-House San Quentin "Corralled" The Reblooming The Emperor
Norton Camilla Cain Lone Mountain Newton The California Politician Old Man Lowry Suicide In
California Father Fisher Jack White The Rabbi My Mining Speculation Mike Reese Uncle Nolan
Buffalo Jones Tod Robinson Ah Lee The Climate of California After The Storm Bishop Kavanaugh
In California Sanders A Day Winter-Blossomed A Virginian In California At The End

Dick.

Dick was a Californian. We made his acquaintance in Sonora about a month before Christmas,
Anno Domini 1855. This is the way it happened:

At the request of a number of families, the lady who presided in the curious little parsonage
near the church on the hill-side had started a school for little girls. The public schools
might do for the boys, but were too mixed for their sisters--so they thought. Boys could rough
it --they were a rough set, anyway--but the girls must he raised according to the traditions
of the old times and the old homes. That was the view taken of the matter then, and from that
day to this the average California girl has been superior to the average California boy. The
boy gets his bias from the street; the girl, from her mother at home. The boy plunges into
the life that surges around him; the girl only feels the touch of its waves as they break upon
the embankments of home. The boy gets more of the father; the girl gets more of the mother.
This may explain their relative superiority. The school for girls was started on condition
that it should be free, the proposed teacher refusing all compensation. That part of the arrangement
was a failure, for at the end of the first month every little girl brought a handful of money,
and laid it on the teacher's desk. It must have been a concerted matter. That quiet, unselfish
woman had suddenly become a money-maker in spite of herself. (Use was found for the coin in
the course of events.) The school was opened with a Psalm, a prayer, and a little song in which
the sweet voices of the little Jewish, Spanish, German, Irish, and American maidens united
heartily. Dear children! they are scattered now. Some of them have died, and some of them have
met with what is worse than death. There was one bright Spanish girl, slender, graceful as
a willow, with the fresh Castilian blood mantling her cheeks, her bright eyes beaming with
mischief and affection. She was a beautiful child, and her winning ways made her a pet in the
little school. But surrounded as the bright, beautiful girl was, Satan had a mortgage on her
from her birth, and her fate was too dark and sad to be told in these pages. She inherited
evil condition, and perhaps evil blood, and her evil life seemed to be inevitable. Poor child
of sin, whose very beauty was thy curse, let the curtain fall upon thy fate and name; we leave
thee in the hands of the pitying Christ, who hath said, "Where little is given little will
be required." Little was given thee in the way of opportunity, for it was a mother's hand that
bound thee with the chains of evil.

Among the children that came to that remarkable academy on the hill was little Mary Kinneth,
a thin, delicate child, with mild blue eyes, flaxen hair, a peach complexion, and the blue
veins on her temples that are so often the sign of delicacy of organization and the presage
of early death. Mike Kinneth,--her father, was a drinking Irishman, a good-hearted fellow when
sober, but pugnacious and disposed to beat his wife when drunk. The poor woman came over to
see me one day. She had been crying, and there was an ugly bruise on her cheek.

"Your riverence will excuse me," she said, curtseying, "but I wish you would come over and
spake a word to me husband. Mike's a kind, good craythur except when he is dhrinking, but then
he is the very Satan himself."

"Did he give you that bruise on your face, Mrs. Kinneth?"

"Yis; he came home last night mad with the whisky, and was breaking ivery thing in the house.
I tried to stop him, and thin he bate me--O! he never did that before! My heart is broke!"

Here the poor woman broke down and cried, hiding her face in her apron.

"Little Mary was asleep, and she waked up frightened and crying to see her father in such a
way. Seeing the child seemed to sober him a little, and he stumbled on to the bed, and fell
asleep. He was always kind to the child, dhrunk or sober. And there is a good heart in him
if he will only stay away from the dhrink."

"Would he let me talk to him?"

"Yis; we belong to the old Church, but there is no priest here now, and the kindness your lady
has shown to little Mary has softened his heart to ye both. And I think he feels a little sick
and ashamed this mornin', and he will listen to kind words now if iver."

I went to see Mike, and found him half-sick and in a penitent mood. He called me "Father Fitzgerald,"
and treated me with the utmost politeness and deference. I talked to him about little Mary,
and his warm Irish heart opened to me at once.

"She is a good child, your riverence, and shame on the father that would hurt or disgrace her!"

The tears stood in Mike's eyes as he spoke the words.

"All the trouble comes from the whisky. Why not give it up?"

"By the help of God I will!" said Mike, grasping my hand with energy.

And he did. I confess that the result of my visit exceeded my hopes. Mike kept away from the
saloons, worked steadily, little Mary had no lack of new shoes and neat frocks, and the Kinneth
family were happy in a humble way. Mike always seemed glad to see me, and greeted me warmly.

One morning about the last of November there was a knock at the door of the little parsonage.
Opening the door, there stood Mrs. Kinneth with a turkey under her arm.

"Christmas will soon be coming, and I've brought ye a turkey for your kindness to little Mary
and your good talk to Mike. He has not touched a dhrop since the blissed day ye spake to him.
Will ye take the turkey, and my thanks wid it?"

The turkey was politely and smilingly accepted, and Mrs. Kinneth went away looking mightily
pleased.

I extemporized a little coop for our turkey. Having but little mechanical ingenuity, it was
a difficult job, but it resulted more satisfactorily than did my attempt to make a door for
the miniature kitchen attached to the parsonage. My object was to nail some cross-pieces on
some plain boards, hang it on hinges, and fasten it on the inside by a leather strap attached
to a nail. The model in my mind was, as the reader sees, of the most simple and primitive pattern.
I spent all my leisure time for a week at work on that door. I spoiled the lumber, I blistered
my hands, I broke several dollars' worth of carpenter's tools, which I had to pay, and--then
I hired a man to make that door! This was my last effort in that line of things, excepting
the turkey-coop, which was the very last. It lasted four days, at the end of which time it
just gave way all over, and caved in. Fortunately, it was no longer needed. Our turkey would
not leave us. The parsonage fare suited him, and he staid, and throve, and made friends.

We named him Dick. He is the hero of this Sketch. Dick was intelligent, sociable, and had a
good appetite. He would eat any thing, from a crust of bread to the pieces of candy that the
schoolgirls would give him as they passed. He became as gentle as a dog, and would answer to
his name. He had the freedom of the town, and went where he pleased, returning at meal-times,
and at night to roost on the western end of the kitchen-roof. He would eat from our hands,
looking at us with a sort of human expression in his shiny eyes. If he were a hundred yards
away, all we had to do was to go to the door and call out, "Dick!"

"Dick!" once or twice, and here he would come, stretching his long legs, and saying, "Oot,"
"oot," "oot" (is that the way to spell it?). He got to like going about with me. He would go
with me to the post-office, to the market, and sometimes he would accompany me in a pastoral
visit. Dick was well known and popular. Even the bad boys of the town did not throw stones
at him. His ruling passion was the love of eating. He ate between meals. He ate all that was
offered to him. Dick was a pampered turkey, and made the most of his good luck and popularity.
He was never in low spirits, and never disturbed except when a dog came about him. He disliked
dogs, and seemed to distrust them.

The days rolled by, and Dick was fat and happy. It was the day before Christmas. We had asked
two bachelors to take Christmas-dinner with us, having room and chairs for just two more persons.
(One of our four chairs was called a stool--it had a bottom and three legs, one of which was
a little shaky, and no back.) There was a constraint upon us both all day. I knew what was
the matter, but said nothing. About four o'clock in the afternoon Dick's mistress sat down
by me, and, after a pause, remarked:

"Do you know that tomorrow is Christmas-day?"

"Yes, I know it."

Another pause. I had nothing to say just then. "Well, if--if--if any thing is to be done about
that turkey, it is time it were done."

"Do you mean Dick?"

"Yes," with a little quiver in her voice.

"I understand you--you mean to kill him--poor Dick! the only pet we ever had."

She broke right down at this, and began to cry.

"What is the matter here?" said our kind, energetic neighbor, Mrs. T--, who came in to pay
us one of her informal visits. She was from Philadelphia, and, though a gifted woman, with
a wide range of reading and observation of human life, was not a sentimentalist. She laughed
at the weeping mistress of the parsonage, and, going to the back-door, she called out:

"Dick!" "Dick!"

Dick, who was taking the air high up on the hillside, came at the call, making long strides,
and sounding his "Oot," "oot," "oot," which was the formula by which he expressed all his emotions,
varying only the tone.

Dick, as he stood with outstretched neck and a look of expectation in his honest eyes, was
scooped up by our neighbor, and carried off down the hill in the most summary manner.

In about an hour Dick was brought back. He was dressed. He was also stuffed.

The Diggers.

The Digger Indian holds a low place in the scale of humanity. He is not intelligent; he is
not handsome; he is not very brave. He stands near the foot of his class, and I fear he is
not likely to go up any higher. It is more likely that the places that know him now will soon
know him no more, for the reason that he seems readier to adopt the bad white man's whisky
and diseases than the good white man's morals and religion. Ethnologically he has given rise
to much conflicting speculation, with which I will not trouble the gentle reader. He has been
in California a long time, and he does not know that he was ever anywhere else. His pedigree
does not trouble him; he is more concerned about getting something to eat. It is not because
he is an agriculturist that he is called a Digger, but because he grabbles for wild roots,
and has a general fondness for dirt. I said he was not handsome, and when we consider his rusty,
dark-brown color, his heavy features, fishy black eyes, coarse black hair, and clumsy gait,
nobody will dispute the statement. But one Digger is uglier than another, and an old squaw
caps the climax.

The first Digger I ever saw was the best-looking. He had picked up a little English, and loafed
around the mining-camps picking up a meal where he could get it. He called himself "Captain
Charley," and, like a true native American, was proud of his title. If it was self-assumed,
he was still following the precedent set by a vast host of captains, majors, colonels, and
generals, who never wore a uniform or hurt anybody. He made his appearance at the little parsonage
on the hill-side in Sonora one day, and, thrusting his bare head into the door, he said:

"Me Cappin Charley," tapping his chest complacently as he spoke.

Returning his salutation, I waited for him to speak again.

"You got grub--coche carne?" he asked, mixing his Spanish and English.

Some food was given him, which he snatched rather eagerly, and began to eat at once. It was,
evident that Captain Charley had not breakfasted that morning. He was a hungry Indian, and
when he got through his meal there was no reserve of rations in the unique repository of dishes
and food which has been mentioned heretofore in these Sketches. Peering about the premises,
Captain Charley made a discovery. The modest little parsonage stood on a steep incline, the
upper side resting on the red gravelly earth, while the lower side was raised three or four
feet from the ground. The vacant space underneath had been used by our several bachelor predecessors
as a receptacle for cast-off clothing. Malone, Lockley, and Evans, had thus disposed of their
discarded apparel, and Drury Bond and one or two other miners had also added to the treasures
that caught the eye of the inquisitive Digger. It was a museum of sartorial curiosities--seedy
and ripped broadcloth coats, vests, and pants, flannel mining-shirts of gay colors and of different
degrees of wear and tear, linen shirts that looked like battle-flags that had been through
the war, and old shoes and boots of all sorts, from the high rubber water-proofs used by miners
to the ragged slippers that had adorned the feet of the lonely single parsons whose names are
written above.

"Me take um?" asked Captain Charley, pointing to the treasure he had discovered.

Leave was given, and Captain Charley lost no time in taking possession of the coveted goods.
He chuckled to himself as one article after another was drawn forth from the pile which seemed
to be almost inexhaustible. When he had gotten all out and piled up together, it was a rare-looking
sight.

"Mucho bueno!" exclaimed Captain Charley, as he proceeded to array himself in a pair of trousers.
Then a shirt, then a vest, and then a coat, were put on. And then another, and another, and
yet another suit was donned in the same order. He was fast becoming a "big Indian" indeed.
We looked on and smiled, sympathizing with the evident delight of our visitor in his superabundant
wardrobe. He was in full-dress, and enjoyed it. But he made a failure at one point--his feet
were too large, or were not the right shape, for white men's boots or shoes. He tried several
pairs, but his huge flat foot would not enter them, and finally he threw down the last one
tried by him with a Spanish exclamation not fit to be printed in these pages. That language
is a musical one, but its oaths are very harsh in sound. A battered "stove-pipe" hat was found
among the spoils turned over to Captain Chancy. Placing it on his head jauntily, he turned
to us, saying, Adios, and went strutting down the street, the picture of gratified vanity.
His appearance on Washington Street, the main thoroughfare of the place, thus gorgeously and
abundantly arrayed, created a sensation. It was as good as a "show" to the jolly miners, always
ready to be amused. Captain Charley was known to most of them, and they had a kindly feeling
for the good-natured "fool Injun," as one of them called him in my hearing.

The next Digger I noticed was of the gentler (but in this case not lovelier) sex. She was an
old squaw, who was in mourning. The sign of her grief was the black adobe mud spread over her
face. She sat all day motionless and speechless, gazing up into the sky. Her grief was caused
by the death of a child, and her sorrowful look showed that she had a mother's heart. Poor,
degraded creature! What were her thoughts as she sat there looking so pitifully up into the
silent, far-off heavens? All the livelong day she gazed thus fixedly into the sky, taking no
notice of the passersby, neither speaking, eating, nor drinking. It was a custom of the tribe,
but its peculiar significance is unknown to me.

It was a great night at an adjoining camp when the old chief died. It was made the occasion
of a fearful orgy. Dry wood and brush were gathered into a huge pile, the body of the dead
chief was placed upon it, and the mass set on fire. As the flames blazed upward with a roar,
the Indians, several hundred in number, broke forth into wild wailings and howlings, the shrill
soprano of the women rising high above the din, as they marched around the burning pyre. Fresh
fuel was supplied from time to time, and all night long the flames lighted up the surrounding
hills which echoed with the shouts and howls of the savages. It was a touch of pandemonium.
At dawn there was nothing left of the dead chief but ashes. The mourners took up their line
of march toward the Stanislaus River, the squaws bearing their papooses on their backs, the
"bucks" leading the way.

The Digger believes in a future life, and in future rewards and punishments. Good Indians and
bad Indians are subjected to the same ordeal at death. Each one is rewarded according to his deeds.

The disembodied soul comes to a wide, turbid river, whose angry waters rush on to an unknown
destination, roaring and foaming. From high banks on either side of the stream is stretched
a pole smooth and small, over which he is required to walk. Upon the result of this post-mortem
Blondinizing his fate depends. If he was in life a very good Indian he goes over safely, and
finds on the other side a paradise, where the skies are cloudless, the air balmy, the flowers
brilliant in color and sweet in perfume, the springs many and cool, and the deer plentiful
and fat. In this fair clime there are no bad Indians, no briers, no snakes, no grizzly bears.
Such is the paradise of good Diggers.

The Indian who was in life a mixed character, not all good or bad, but made up of both, starts
across the fateful river, gets on very well until he reaches about half-way over, when his
head becomes dizzy, and he tumbles into the boiling flood below. He swims for his life. (Every
Indian on earth can swim, and he does not forget the art in the world of spirits.) Buffeting
the waters, he is carried swiftly down the rushing current, and at last makes the shore, to
find a country which, like his former life, is a mixture of good and bad. Some days are fair,
and others are rainy and chilly; flowers and brambles grow together; there are some springs
of water, but they are few, and not all cool and sweet; the deer are few, and shy, and lean,
and grizzly bears roam the hills and valleys. This is the limbo of the moderately-wicked Digger.

The very bad Indian, placing his feet upon the attenuated bridge of doom, makes a few steps
forward, stumbles, falls into the whirling waters below, and is swept downward with fearful
velocity. At last, with desperate struggles he half swims, and is half washed ashore on the
same side from which he started, to find a dreary land where the sun never shines, and the
cold rains always pour down from the dark skies, where the water is brackish and foul, where
no flowers ever bloom, where leagues may be traversed without seeing a deer, and grizzly bears
abound. This is the hell of very bad Indians--and a very had one it is.

The worst Indians of all, at death, are transformed into grizzly bears.

The Digger has a good appetite, and he is not particular about his eating. He likes grasshoppers,
clover, acorns, roots, and fish. The flesh of a dead mule, horse, cow, or hog, does not come
amiss to him--I mean the flesh of such as die natural deaths. He eats what he can get, and
all he can get. In the grasshopper season he is fat and flourishing. In the suburbs of Sonora
I came one day upon a lot of squaws, who were engaged in catching grasshoppers. Stretched along
in line, armed with thick branches of pine, they threshed the ground in front of them as they
advanced, driving the grasshoppers before them in constantly increasing numbers, until the
air was thick with the flying insects. Their course was directed to a deep gully, or gulch,
into which they fell exhausted. It was astonishing to see with what dexterity the squaws would
gather them up and thrust them into a sort of covered basket; made of willow-twigs or tule-grass,
while the insects would be trying to escape; but would fall back unable to rise above the sides
of the gulch in which they had been entrapped. The grasshoppers are dried, or cured, for winter
use. A white man who had tried them told me they were pleasant eating, having a flavor very
similar to that of a good shrimp. (I was content to take his word for it.)

When Bishop Soule was in California, in 1853, he paid a visit to a Digger campoody (or village)
in the Calaveras hills. He was profoundly interested, and expressed an ardent desire to be
instrumental in the conversion of one of these poor kin. It was yet early in the morning when
the Bishop and his party arrived, and the Diggers were not astir, save here and there a squaw,
in primitive array, who slouched lazily toward a spring of water hard by. But soon the arrival
of the visitors was made known, and the bucks, squaws, and papooses, swarmed forth. They cast
curious looks upon the whole party, but were specially struck with the majestic bearing of
the Bishop, as were the passing crowds in London, who stopped in the streets to gaze with admiration
upon the great American preacher. The Digger chief did not conceal his delight. After looking
upon the Bishop fixedly for some moments, he went up to him, and tapping first his own chest
and then the Bishop's, he said:

"Me big man--you big man!"

It was his opinion that two great men had met, and that the occasion was a grand one. Moralizers
to the contrary notwithstanding, greatness is not always lacking in self-consciousness.

"I would like to go into one of their wigwams, or huts, and see how they really live," said
the Bishop.

"You had better drop that idea," said the guide, a white man who knew more about Digger Indians
than was good for his reputation and morals, but who was a good-hearted fellow, always ready
to do a friendly turn, and with plenty of time on his hands to do it. The genius born to live
without work will make his way by his wits, whether it be in the lobby at Washington City,
or as a hanger-on at a Digger camp.

The Bishop insisted on going inside the chief's wigwam, which was a conical structure of long
tule-grass, air-tight and weather-proof, with an aperture in front just large enough for a
man's body in a crawling attitude. Sacrificing his dignity, the Bishop went down on all-fours,
and then a degree lower, and, following the chief; crawled in. The air was foul, the smells
were strong, and the light was dim. The chief proceeded to tender to his distinguished guest
the hospitalities of the establishment, by offering to share his breakfast with him. The bill
of fare was grasshoppers, with acorns as a side-dish. The Bishop maintained his dignity as
he squatted there in the dirt--his dignity was equal to any test. He declined the grasshoppers
tendered him by the chief, pleading that he had already breakfasted, but watched with peculiar
sensations the movements of his host, as handful after handful of the crisp and juicy gryllus
vulgaris were crammed into his capacious mouth, and swallowed. What he saw and smelt, and the
absence of fresh air, began to tell upon the Bishop--he became sick and pale, while a gentle
perspiration, like unto that felt in the beginning of seasickness, beaded his noble forehead.
With slow dignity, but marked emphasis, he spoke:

"Brother Bristow, I propose that we retire."

They retired, and there is no record that Bishop Soule ever expressed the least desire to repeat
his visit to the interior of a Digger Indian's abode.

The whites had many difficulties with the Diggers in the early days. In most cases I think
the whites were chiefly to blame. It is very hard for the strong to be just to the weak. The
weakest creature, pressed hard, will strike back. White women and children were massacred in
retaliation for outrages committed upon the ignorant Indians by white outlaws. Then there would
be a sweeping destruction of Indians by the excited whites, who in those days made rather light
of Indian shooting. The shooting of a "buck" was about the same thing, whether it was a male
Digger or a deer.

"There is not much fight in a Digger unless he's got the dead-wood on you, and then he'll make
it rough for you. But these Injuns are of no use, and I'd about as soon shoot one of them as
a coyote" (ki-o-te).

The speaker was a very red-faced, sandy-haired man, with blood-shot blue eyes, whom I met on
his return to the Humboldt country after a visit to San Francisco.

"Did you ever shoot an Indian?" I asked.

"I first went up into the Eel River country in '46," he answered. "They give us a lot of trouble
in them days. They would steal cattle, and our boys would shoot. But we've never had much difficulty
with them since the big fight we had with them in 1849. A good deal of devilment had been goin'
on all roun', and some had been killed on both sides. The Injuns killed two women on a ranch
in the valley, and then we set in just to wipe 'em out. Their camp was in a bend of the river,
near the head of the valley, with a deep slough on the right flank. There was about sixty of
us, and Dave was our captain. He was a hard rider, a dead shot, and not very tender-hearted.
The boys sorter liked him, but kep' a sharp eye on him, knowin' he was so quick and handy with
a pistol. Our plan was to git to their camp and fall on em at daybreak, but the sun was risin'
just as we come in sight of it. A dog barked, and Dave sung out:

"'Out with your pistols! pitch in, and give 'em the hot lead!'

"In we galloped at full speed, and as the Injuns come out to see what was up, we let 'em have
it. We shot forty bucks--about a dozen got away by swimmin' the river."

"Were any of the women killed?"

"A few were knocked over. You can't be particular when you are in a hurry; and a squaw, when
her blood is up, will fight equal to a buck."

The fellow spoke with evident pride, feeling that he was detailing a heroic affair, having
no idea that he had done any thing wrong in merely killing "bucks." I noticed that this sane
man was very kind to an old lady who took the stage for Bloomfield--helping her into the vehicle,
and looking after her baggage. When we parted, I did not care to take the hand that had held
a pistol that morning when the Digger camp was "wiped out."

The scattered remnants of the Digger tribes were gathered into a reservation in Round Valley,
Mendocino county, north of the Bay of San Francisco, and were there taught a mild form of agricultural
life, and put under the care of Government agents, contractors, and soldiers, with about the
usual results. One agent, who was also a preacher, took several hundred of them into the Christian
Church. They seemed to have mastered the leading facts of the gospel, and attained considerable
proficiency in the singing of hymns. Altogether, the result of this effort at their conversion
showed that they were human beings, and as such could be made recipients of the truth and grace
of God, who is the Father of all the families of the earth. Their spiritual guide told me he
had to make one compromise with them--they would dance. Extremes meet--the fashionable white
Christians of our gay capitals and the tawny Digger exhibit the same weakness for the fascinating
exercise that cost John the Baptist his head.

There is one thing a Digger cannot bear, and that is the comforts and luxuries of civilized
life. A number of my friends, who had taken Digger children to raise, found that as they approached
maturity they fell into a decline and died, in most cases of some pulmonary affection. The
only way to save them was to let them rough it, avoiding warm bed-rooms and too much clothing.
A Digger girl belonged to my church at Santa Rosa, and was a gentle, kind-hearted, grateful
creature. She was a domestic in the family of Colonel H--. In that pleasant Christian household
she developed into a pretty fair specimen of brunette young womanhood, but to the last she
had an aversion to wearing shoes.

The Digger seems to be doomed. Civilization kills him; and if he sticks to his savagery, he
will go down before the bullets, whisky, and vices of his white fellow-sinners.

The California Mad-House.

On my first visit to the State Insane Asylum, at Stockton, I was struck by the beauty of a
boy of some seven or eight years, who was moving about the grounds clad in a strait-jacket.
In reply to my inquiries, the resident physician told me his history:

"About a year ago he was on his way to California with the family to which he belonged. He
was a general pet among the passengers on the steamer. Handsome, confiding, and overflowing
with boyish spirits, everybody had a smile and a kind word for the winning little fellow. Even
the rough sailors would pause a moment to pat his curly head as they passed. One day a sailor,
yielding to a playful impulse in passing, caught up the boy in his arms, crying:

"'I am going to throw you into the sea!'

"The child gave one scream of terror, and went into convulsions. When the paroxysm subsided,
he opened his eyes and gazed around with a vacant expression. His mother, who bent over him
with a pale face, noticed the look, and almost screamed:

"'Tommy, here is your mother--don't you know me?'

"The child gave no sign of recognition. He never knew his poor mother again. He was literally
frightened out of his senses. The mother's anguish was terrible. The remorse of the sailor
for his thoughtless freak was so great that it in some degree disarmed the indignation of the
passengers and crew. The child had learned to read, and had made rapid progress in the studies
suited to his age, but all was swept away by the cruel blow. He was unable to utter a word
intelligently. Since he has been here, there have been signs of returning mental consciousness,
and we have begun with him as with an infant. He knows and can call his own name, and is now
learning the alphabet."

"How is his health?"

"His health is pretty good, except that he has occasional convulsive attacks that can only
be controlled by the use of powerful opiates."

I was glad to learn, on a visit made two years later, that the unfortunate boy had died.

This child was murdered by a fool. The fools are always murdering children, though the work
is not always done as effectually as in this case. They cripple and half kill them by terror.
There are many who will read this Sketch who will carry to the grave, and into the world of
spirits, natures out of which half the sweetness, and brightness, and beauty has been crushed
by ignorance or brutality. In most cases it is ignorance. The hand that should guide, smites;
the voice that should soothe, jars the sensitive chords that are untuned forever. He who thoughtlessly
excites terror in a child's heart is unconsciously doing the devil's work; he that does it
consciously is a devil.

"There is a lady here whom I wish you would talk to. She belongs to one of the most respectable
families in San Francisco, is cultivated, refined, and has been the center of a large and loving
circle. Her monomania is spiritual despair. She thinks she has committed the unpardonable sin.
There she is now. I will introduce you to her. Talk with her, and comfort her if you can."

She was a tall, well-formed woman in black, with all the marks of refinement in her dress and
bearing. She was walking the floor to and fro with rapid steps, wringing her hands, and moaning
piteously. Indescribable anguish was in her face--it was a hopeless face. It haunted my thoughts
for many days, and it is vividly before me as I write now. The kind physician introduced me,
and left the apartment.

There is a sacredness about such an interview that inclines me to veil its details.

"I am willing to talk with you, sir, and appreciate your motive, but I understand my situation.
I have committed the unpardonable sin, and I know there is no hope for me."

With the earnestness excited by intense sympathy, I combated her conclusion, and felt certain
that I could make her see and feel that she had given way to an illusion. She listened respectfully
to all I had to say, and then said again:

"I know my situation. I denied my Saviour after all his goodness to me, and he has left me
forever."

There was the frozen calmness of utter despair in look and tone. I left her as I found her.

"I will introduce you to another woman, the opposite of the poor lady you have just seen. She
thinks she is a queen, and is perfectly harmless. You must be careful to humor her illusion.
There she is--let me present you."

She was a woman of immense size, enormously fat, with broad red face, and a self-satisfied
smirk, dressed in some sort of flaming scarlet stuff, profusely tinseled all over, making a
gorgeously ridiculous effect. She received me with a mixture of mock dignity and smiling condescension,
and surveying herself admiringly, she asked:

"How do you like my dress?"

It was not the first time that royalty had shown itself not above the little weaknesses of
human nature. On being told that her apparel was indeed magnificent, she was much pleased,
and drew herself up proudly, and was a picture of ecstatic vanity. Are the real queens as happy?
When they lay aside their royal robes for their grave clothes, will not the pageantry which
was the glory of their lives seem as vain as that of this tinseled queen of the mad-house?
Where is happiness, after all? Is it in the circumstances, the external conditions? or, is
it in the mind? Such were the thoughts passing through my mind, when a man approached with
a violin. Every eye brightened, and the queen seemed to thrill with pleasure in every nerve.

"This is the only way we can get some of them to take any exercise. The music rouses them,
and they will dance as long as they are permitted to do so."

The fiddler struck up a lively tune, and the queen, with marvelous lightness of step and ogling
glances, ambled up to a tall, raw-boned Methodist preacher, who had come with me, and invited
him to dance with her. The poor parson seemed sadly embarrassed, as her manner was very pressing,
but he awkwardly and confusedly declined, amid the titters of all present. It was a singular
spectacle, that dance of the mad-women. The most striking figure on the floor was the queen.
Her great size, her brilliant apparel, her astonishing agility, the perfect time she kept,
the bows, the smiles and blandishments, she bestowed on an imaginary partner, were indescribably
ludicrous. Now and then, in her evolutions, she would cast a momentary reproachful glance at
the ungallant clergyman who had refused to dance with feminine royalty, and who stood looking
on with a sheepish expression of face. He was a Kentuckian, and lack of gallantry is not a
Kentucky trait.

During the session of the Annual Conference at Stockton, in 1859 or 1860, the resident physician
invited me to preach to the inmates of the Asylum on Sunday afternoon. The novelty of the service,
which was announced in the daily papers, attracted a large number of visitors, among them the
greater part of the preachers. The day was one of those bright, clear, beautiful October days,
peculiar to California, that make you think of heaven. I stood on the steps, and the hundreds
of men and Women stood below me, with their upturned faces. Among them were old men crushed
by sorrow, and old men ruined by vice; aged women with faces that seemed to plead for pity,
women that made you shrink from their unwomanly gaze; lion-like young men, made for heroes
but caught in the devil's trap and changed into beasts; and boys whose looks showed that sin
had already stamped them with its foul insignia, and burned into their souls the shame which
is to be one of the elements of its eternal punishment. A less impressible man than I would
have felt moved at the sight of that throng of bruised and broken creatures. A hymn was read,
and when Burnet, Kelsay, Neal, and others of the preachers, struck up an old tune, voice after
voice joined in the melody until it swelled into a mighty volume of sacred song. I noticed
that the faces of many were wet with tears, and there was an indescribable pathos in their
voices. The pitying God, amid the rapturous hallelujahs of the heavenly hosts, bent to listen
to the music of these broken harps. This text was announced, My peace I give unto you; and,
the sermon began.

Among those standing nearest to me was "Old Kelley," a noted patient whose monomania was the
notion that he was a millionaire, and who spent most of his time in drawing checks on imaginary
deposits for vast sums of money. I held one of his checks for a round million, but it has never
yet been cashed. The old man pressed up close to me, seeming to feel that the success of the
service somehow depended on him. I had not more than fairly begun my discourse, when he broke in:

"That's Daniel Webster!"

I don't mind a judicious "Amen," but this put me out a little. I resumed my remarks, and was
getting another good start, when he again broke in enthusiastically:

"Henry Clay!"

The preachers standing around me smiled--I think I heard one or two of them titter. I could
not take my eyes from Kelley, who stood with open mouth and beaming countenance, waiting for
me to go on. He held me with an evil fascination. I did go on in a louder voice, and in a sort
of desperation; but again my delighted hearer exclaimed:

"Calhoun!"

"Old Kelley" spoiled that sermon, though he meant kindly. He died not long afterward, gloating
over his fancied millions to the last.

"If you have steady nerves, come with me and I will show you the worst case we have--a woman
half tigress, and half devil."

Ascending a stairway, I was led to an angle of the building assigned to the patients whose
violence required them to be kept in close confinement.

"Hark! don't you hear her? She is in one of her paroxysms now."

The sounds that issued from one of the cells were like nothing I had ever heard before. They
were a series of unearthly, fiendish shrieks, intermingled with furious imprecations, as of
a lost spirit in an ecstasy of rage and fear.

The face that glared upon me through the iron grating was hideous, horrible. It was that of
a woman, or of what had been a woman, but was now a wreck out of which evil passion had stamped
all that was womanly or human. I involuntarily shrunk back as I met the glare of those fiery
eyes, and caught the sound of words that made me shudder. I never suspected myself of being
a coward, but I felt glad that the iron bars of the cell against which she dashed herself were
strong. I had read of Furies--one was now before me. The bloated, gin-inflamed face, the fiery-red,
wicked eyes, the swinish chin, the tangled coarse hair falling around her like writhing snakes,
the tiger-like clutch of her dirty fingers, the horrible words--the picture was sickening,
disgust for the time almost, extinguishing pity.

"She was the keeper of a beer-saloon in San Francisco, and led a life of drunkenness and licentiousness
until she broke down, and she was brought here."

"Is there any hope of her restoration?"

"I fear not--nothing short of a miracle can, retune an instrument so fearfully broken and jangled."

I thought of her out of whom were cast the seven devils, and of Him who came to seek and to
save the lost, and resisting the impulse that prompted me to hurry away from the sight and
hearing of this lost woman, I tried to talk with her, but had to retire at last amid a volley
of such language as I hope never to hear from a woman's lips again.

"Listen! Did you ever hear a sweeter voice than that?"

I had heard the voice before, and thrilled under its power. It was a female voice of wonderful
richness and volume, with a touch of something in it that moved you strangely--a sort of intensity
that set your pulses to beating faster, while it entranced you. The whole of the spacious grounds
were flooded with the melody, and the passing teamsters on the public highway would pause and
listen with wonder and delight. The singer was a fair young girl, with dark auburn hair, large
brown eyes, that were at times dreamy and sad, and then again lit up with excitement, as her
moods changed from sad to gay.

"She will sit silent for hours gazing listlessly out of the window, and then all at once break
forth into a burst of song so sweet and thrilling that the other patients gather near her and
listen in rapt silence and delight. Sometimes at a dead hour of the night her voice is heard,
and then it seems that she is under a special afflatus--she seems to be inspired by the very
soul of music, and her songs, wild and sad, wailing and rollicking, by turns, but all exquisitely
sweet, fill the long night-hours with their melody."

The shock caused by the sudden death of her betrothed lover overthrew her reason, and blighted
her life. By the mercy of God, the love of music and the gift of song survived the wreck of
love and of reason. This girl's voice, pealing forth upon the still summer evening air, is
mingled with my last recollection of Stockton and its refuge for the doubly miserable who are
doomed to death in life.

San Quentin.

"I want you to go with me over to San Quentin next Thursday, and preach a thanksgiving-sermon
to the poor fellows in the State-prison."

On the appointed morning, I met our party at the Vallejo-street wharf, and we were soon steaming
on our way. Passing under the guns of Fort Alcatraz, past Angel Island--why so called I know
not, as in early days it was inhabited not by angels but goats only--all of us felt the exhilaration
of the California sunshine, and the bracing November air, as we stood upon the guards, watching
the play of the lazy-looking porpoises, that seemed to roll along, keeping up with the swift
motion of the boat in such a leisurely way. The porpoise is a deceiver. As he rolls up to the
surface of the water, in his lumbering way, he looks as if he were a huge lump of unwieldy
awkwardness, floating at random and almost helpless; but when you come to know him better,
you find that he is a marvel of muscular power and swiftness. I have seen a "school" of porpoises
in the Pacific swimming for hours alongside one of our fleetest ocean-steamers, darting a few
yards ahead now and then, as if by mere volition, cutting their way through the water with
the directness of an arrow. The porpoise is playful at times, and his favorite game is a sort
of leap-frog. A score or more of the creatures, seemingly full of fun and excitement, will
chase one another at full speed, throwing themselves from the water and turning somersaults
in the air, the water boiling with the agitation, and their huge bodies flashing in the light.
You might almost imagine that they had found something in the sea that had made them drunk,
or that they had inhaled some sort of piscatorial anaesthetic. But here we are at our destination.
The bell rings, we round to, and land.

At San Quentin nature is at her best, and man at his worst. Against the rocky shore the waters
of the bay break in gentle splashings when the winds are quiet. When the gales from the southwest
sweep through the Golden Gate, and set the white caps to dancing to their wild music, the waves
rise high, and dash upon the dripping stones with a hoarse roar, as of anger. Beginning a few
hundreds of yards from the water's edge, the hills slope up, and up, and up, until they touch
the base of Tamalpais, on whose dark and rugged summit, four thousand feet above the sea that
laves his feet on the west, the rays of the morning sun fall with transfiguring, glory while
yet the valley below lies in shadow. On this lofty pinnacle linger the last rays of the setting
sun, as it drops into the bosom of the Pacific. In stormy weather, the mist and clouds roll
in from the ocean, and gather in dark masses around his awful head, as if the sea-gods had
risen from their homes in the deep, and were holding a council of war amid the battle of the
elements; at other times, after calm, bright days, the thin, soft white clouds that hang about
his crest deepen into crimson and gold, and the mountaintop looks as if the angels of God had
come down to encamp, and pitched here their pavilions of glory. This is nature at San Quentin,
and this is Tamalpais as I have looked upon it many a morning and many an evening from my window
above the sea at North Beach.

The gate is opened for us, and we enter the prison-walls. It is a holiday, and the day is fair
and balmy; but the chill and sadness cannot be shaken off, as we look around us. The sunshine
seems almost to be a mockery in this place where fellow-men are caged and guarded like wild
beasts, and skulk about with shaved heads, clad in the striped uniform of infamy. Merciful
God! is this what thy creature man was made for? How long, how long?

Seated upon the platform with the prison officials and visitors, I watched my strange auditors
as they came in. There were one thousand of them. Their faces were a curious study. Most of
them were bad faces. Beast and devil were printed on them. Thick necks, heavy back-heads, and
low, square foreheads, were the prevalent types. The least repulsive were those who looked
as if they were all animal, creatures of instinct and appetite, good-natured and stupid; the
most repulsive were those whose eyes had a gleam of mingled sensuality and ferocity. But some
of these faces that met my gaze were startling--they seemed so out of place. One old man with
gray hair, pale, sad face, and clear blue eyes, might have passed, in other garb and in other
company, for an honored member of the Society of Friends. He had killed a man in a mountain
county. If he was indeed a murderer at heart, nature had given him the wrong imprint. My attention
was struck by a smooth-faced, handsome young fellow, scarcely of age, who looked as little
like a convict as anybody on that platform. He was in for burglary, and had a very bad record.
Some came in half laughing, as if they thought the whole affair more a joke than anything else.
The Mexicans, of whom there was quite a number, were sullen and scowling. There is gloom in
the Spanish blood. The irrepressible good nature of several ruddy-faced Irishmen broke out
in sly merriment. As the service began, the discipline of the prison showed itself in the quiet
that instantly prevailed; but only a few, who joined in the singing, seemed to feel the slightest
interest in it. Their eyes were wandering, and their faces were vacant. They had the look of
men who had come to be talked at and patronized, and who were used to it. The prayer that was
offered was not calculated to banish such a feeling --it was dry and cold. I stood up to begin
the sermon. Never before had I realized so folly that God's message was to lost men, and for
lost men. A mighty tide of pity rushed in upon my soul as I looked down into the faces of my
hearers. My eyes filled, and my heart melted within me. I could not speak until after a pause,
and only then by great effort. There was a deep silence, and every face was lifted to mine
as I announced the text. God had touched my heart and theirs at the start. Then I said:

"My fellow-men, I come to you today with a message from my Father, and your Father in heaven.
It is a message of hope. God help me to deliver it as I ought! God help you to hear it as you
ought! I will not insult you by saying that because you have an extra dinner, a few hours respite
from your toil, and a little fresh air and sunshine, you ought to have a joyful thanksgiving
today. If I should talk thus, you would be ready to ask me how I would like to change places
with you. You would despise me, and I would despise myself, for indulging in such cant. Your
lot is a hard one. The battle of life has gone against you--whether by your own fault or by
hard fortune, it matters not, so far as the fact is concerned; this thanksgiving-day finds
you locked in here, with broken lives, and wearing the badge of crime. God alone knows the
secrets of each throbbing heart before me, and how it is that you have come to this. Fellow-men,
children of my Father in heaven, putting myself for the moment in your place, the bitterness
of your lot is real and terrible to me. For some of you there is no happier prospect for this
life than to toil within these walls by day, and sleep in yonder cells by night, through the
weary, slow-dragging years, and then to die, with only the hands of hired attendants to wipe
the death-sweat from your brows; and then to be put in a convict's coffin, and taken up on
the hill yonder, and laid in a lonely grave. My God! this is terrible!"

An unexpected dramatic effect followed these words. The heads of many of the convicts fell
forward on their breasts, as if struck with sudden paralysis. They were the men who were in
for life, and the horror of it overcame them. The silence was broken by sobbings all over the
room. The officers and visitors on the platform were weeping. The angel of pity hovered over,
the place, and the glow of human sympathy had melted those stony hearts. A thousand strong
men were thrilled with the touch of sympathy, and once more the sacred fountain of tears was
unsealed. These convicts were men, after all, and deep down under the rubbish of their natures
there was still burning the spark of a humanity not yet extinct. It was wonderful to see the
softened expression of their faces. Yes, they were men, after all, responding to the voice
of sympathy, which had been but too strange to many of them all their evil lives. Many of them
had inherited hard conditions; they were literally conceived in sin and born in iniquity; they
grew up in the midst of vice. For them pure and holy lives were a moral impossibility. Evil
with them was hereditary, organic, and the result of association; it poisoned their blood at
the start, and stamped itself on their features from their cradles. Human law, in dealing with
these victims of evil circumstance, can make little discrimination. Society must protect itself,
treating a criminal as a criminal. But what will God do with them hereafter? Be sure he will
do right. Where little is given, little will be required. It shall be better for Tyre and Sidon
at the day of judgment than for Chorazin and Bethsaida. There is no ruin without remedy, except
that which a man makes for himself by abusing mercy, and throwing away proffered opportunity.
Thoughts like these rushed through the preacher's mind, as he stood there looking in the tear-bedewed
faces of these men of crime. A fresh tide of pity rose in his heart, that he felt came from
the heart of the all-pitying One.

"I do not try to disguise from you, or from myself the fact that for this life your outlook
is not bright. But I come to you this day with a message of hope from God our Father. He hath
not appointed you to wrath. He loves all his children. He sent his Son to die for them. Jesus
trod the paths of pain, and drained the cup of sorrow. He died as a malefactor, for malefactors.
He died for me. He died for each one of you. I would tell him that his Father in heaven loves
him still, loves him more than the mother that bore him. I would tell him that all the wrongs
and follies of his past life may from this hour be turned into so much capital of a warning
experience, and that a million of years from today he may be a child of the Heavenly Father,
and an heir of glory, having the freedom of the heavens and the blessedness of everlasting
life. O brothers, God does love you! Nothing can ruin you but your own despair. No man has
any right to despair who has eternity before him. Eternity? Long, long eternity! Blessed, blessed
eternity! That is yours--all of it. It may be a happy eternity for each one of you. From this
moment you may begin a better life. There is hope for you, and mercy, and love, and heaven.
This is the message I bring you warm from a brother's heart, and warm from the heart of Jesus,
whose life-blood was poured out for you and me. His loving hand opened the gate of mercy and
hope to every man. The proof is that he died for us. O Son of God, take us to thy pitying arms,
and lift us up into the light that never, never grows dim--into the love that fills heaven
and eternity!"

As the speaker sunk into his seat, there was a silence that was almost painful for a few moments.
Then the pent-up emotion of the men broke forth in sobs that shook their strong frames. Dr.
Lucky, the prisoner's friend, made a brief, tearful prayer, and then the benediction was said,
and the service was at an end. The men sat still in their seats. As we filed out, of the chapel,
many hands were extended to grasp mine, holding it with a clinging pressure. I passed out bearing
with me the impression of an hour I can never forget; and the images of those thousand faces
are still painted in memory.

"Corralled."

"So you were corralled last night?"

This was the remark of a friend whom I met in the streets of Stockton the morning after my
adventure. I knew what the expression meant as applied to cattle, but I had never heard it
before in reference to a human being. Yes, I had been corralled; and this is how it happened:

It was in the old days, before there were any railroads in California. With a wiry, clean-limbed
pinto horse, I undertook to drive from Sacramento City to Stockton one day. It was in the winter
season, and the clouds were sweeping up from the south-west, the snow-crested Sierras hidden
from sight by dense masses of vapor boiling at their bases and massed against their sides.
The roads were heavy from the effects of previous rains, and the plucky little pinto sweated
as he pulled through the long stretches of black adobe mud. A cold wind struck me in the face,
and the ride was a dreary one from the start. But I pushed on confidently, having faith in
the spotted mustang, despite the evident fact that he had lost no little of the spirit with
which he dashed out of town at starting. When a genuine mustang flags, it is a serious business.
The hardiness and endurance of this breed of horses almost exceed belief.

Toward night a cold rain began to fall, driving in my face with the headwind. Still many a
long mile lay between me and Stockton. Dark came on, and it was dark indeed. The outline of
the horse I was driving could not be seen, and the flat country through which I was driving
was a great black sea of night. I trusted to the instinct of the horse, and moved on. The bells
of a wagon-team meeting me fell upon my ear. I called out,

"Halloo there!"

"What's the matter?" answered a heavy voice through the darkness.

"Am I in the road to Stockton, and can I get there tonight?"

"You are in the road, but you will never find your way such a night as this. It is ten good
miles from here; you have several bridges to cross --you had better stop at the first house
you come to, about half a mile ahead. I am going to strike camp myself."

I thanked my adviser, and went on, hearing the sound of the tinkling bells, but unable to see
any thing. In a little while I saw a light ahead, and was glad to see it. Driving up in front
and halting, I repeated the traveler's "halloo" several times, and at last got a response in
a hoarse, gruff voice.

"I am belated on my way to Stockton, and am cold, and tired, and hungry. Can I get shelter
with you for the night?"

"You may try it, if you want to," answered the unmusical voice abruptly.

In a few moments a man appeared to take the horse, and taking my satchel in hand, I went into
the house. The first thing that struck my attention on entering the room was a big log-fire,
which I was glad to see, for I was wet and very cold. Taking a chair in the corner, I looked
around. The scene that presented itself was not reassuring. The main feature of the room was
a bar, with an ample supply of barrels, demijohns, bottles, tumblers, and all the et ceteras.
Behind the counter stood the proprietor, a burly fellow with a buffalo-neck, fair skin and
blue eyes, with a frightful scar across his left under-jaw and neck; his shirt-collar was open,
exposing, a huge chest, and his sleeves were rolled up above the elbows. I noticed also that
one of his hands was minus all the fingers but the half of one--the result probably of some
desperate reencounter. I did not like the appearance of my landlord, and he eyed me in a way
that led me to fear that he liked my looks as little as I did his; but the claims of other
guests soon diverted his attention from me, and I was left to get warm and make further observations.
At a table in the middle of the room several hard-looking fellows were betting at cards, amid
terrible profanity and frequent drinks of whisky. They cast inquiring and not very friendly
glances at me from time to time, once or twice exchanging whispers and giggling. As their play
went on, and tumbler after tumbler of whisky was drunk by them, they became more boisterous.
Threats were made of using pistols and knives, with which they all seemed to be heavily armed;
and one sottish-looking brute actually drew forth a pistol, but was disarmed in no gentle way
by the big-limbed landlord. The profanity and other foul language were horrible. Many of my
readers have no conception of the brutishness of men when whisky and Satan have full possession
of them. In the midst of a volley of oaths and terrible imprecations by one of the most violent
of the set, there was a faint gleam of lingering decency exhibited by one of his companions:

"Blast it, Dick, don't cuss so loud--that fellow in the corner there is a preacher!"

There was some potency in "the cloth" even there. How he knew my calling I do not know. The
remark directed particular attention to me and I became unpleasantly conspicuous. Scowling
glances were bent upon me by two or three of the ruffians, and one fellow made a profane remark
not at all complimentary to my vocation--where at there was some coarse laughter. In the meantime
I was conscious of being very hungry. My hunger, like that of a boy, is a very positive, thing
at, least it was very much so in those days. Glancing toward the maimed and scarred giant who
stood behind the bar, I found he was gazing at me with a fixed expression.

"Can I get something to eat? I am very hungry, sir," I said in my blandest tones.

"Yes, we've, plenty of 'cold' goose, and maybe Pete can pick up something else for you if he,
is sober and in a good humor. Come this way."

I followed him through a narrow passage-way, which led to a long, low-ceiled room, along nearly
the whole length of which was stretched a table, around which were placed rough stools for
the rough men about the place.

Pete, the cook; came in and the head of the house turned me over to him, and returned to his
duties behind the bar. From the noise of the uproar going on, his presence was doubtless needed.
Pete set before me a large roasted wild-goose, not badly cooked, with bread, milk, and the
inevitable cucumber pickles. The knives and forks were not very bright --in fact, they had
been subjected to influences promotive of oxidation; and the dishes were not free from signs
of former use. Nothing could be said against the tablecloth--there was no tablecloth there.
But the goose was fat, brown, and tender; and a hungry man defers his criticisms until he is
done eating. That is what I did. Pete evidently regarded me with curiosity. He was about fifty
years of age, and had the look of a man who had come down in the world. His face bore the marks
of the effects of strong drink, but it was not a bad face; it was more weak than wicked.

"Are you a preacher?" he asked.

"I thought so," he added, after getting my answer to his question. "Of what persuasion are
you?"! he further inquired.

When I told him I was a Methodist, he said quickly and with some warmth:

"I was sure of it. This is a rough place for a man of your calling. Would you like some eggs?
we've plenty on hand. And may be you would like a cup of coffee," he added, with, increasing
hospitality.

I took the eggs, but declined the coffee, not liking the looks of the cups and saucers, and
not caring to wait.

"I used to be a Methodist myself," said Pete, with a sort of choking in his throat, "but bad
luck and bad company have brought me down to this. I have a family in Iowa, a wife and four
children. I guess they think I'm dead, and sometimes I wish I was."

Pete stood by my chair, actually crying. The sight of a Methodist preacher brought up old times.
He told me his story. He had come to California hoping to make a fortune in a hurry, but had
only ill luck from the start. His prospectings were always failures, his partners cheated him,
his health broke down, his courage gave way, and--he faltered a little, and then spoke it out--he
took to whisky, and then the worst came.

"I have come down to this--cooking for a lot of roughs at five dollars a week, and all the
whisky I want. It would have been better for me if I had died when I was in the hospital at
San Andreas."

Poor Pete! he had indeed touched bottom. But he had a heart and a conscience still, and my
own heart warmed toward my poor backslidden brother.

"You are not a lost man yet. You are worth a thousand dead men. You can get out of this, and
you must. You must act the part of a brave man, and not be any longer a coward. Bad luck and
lack of success are a disgrace to no man. There is where you went wrong. It was cowardly to
give up and not write to your family, and then take to whisky."

"I know all that, Elder. There is no better little woman on earth than my wife"--Pete choked
up again.

"You write to her this very night, and go back to her and your children just as soon as you
can get the money to pay your way. Act the man, and all will come right yet. I have writing
materials here in my satchel --pen, ink, paper, envelopes, stamps, every thing; I am an editor,
and go fixed up for writing."

The letter was written, I acting as Pete's amanuensis, he pleading that he was a poor scribe
at best and that his nerves were too unsteady for such work. Taking my advice, he made a clean
breast of the whole matter, throwing himself on the forgiveness of the wife whom he had so
shamefully neglected, and promising by the help of God to make all the amends possible in time
to come. The letter was duly directed, sealed, and stamped; and Pete looked as if a great weight
had been lifted from his soul, He had made me a fire in the little stove, saying it was better
than the barroom; in which opinion I was fully agreed.

"There is no place for you to sleep tonight without corralling you with the fellows; there
is but one bedroom, and there are fourteen bunks in it."

I shuddered at the prospect-fourteen bunks in one small room, and those whisky-sodden, loud-cursing
card-players to be my roommates for the night!

"I prefer sitting here by the stove all night," I said; "I can employ most of the time writing,
if I can have a light."

Pete thought a moment, looked grave, and then said:

"That won't do, Elder; those fellows would take offense, and make trouble. Several of them
are out now goose-hunting; they will be coming in at all hours from now till daybreak, and
it won't do for them to find you sitting up here alone. The best, thing for you to do is to
go in and take one of those bunks; you, needn't takeoff any thing but your coat and boots,
and"--here he lowered his voice, looking about him as he spoke--"if you have any money about,
keep it next to your body."

The last words were spoken with peculiar emphasis.

Taking the advice given me, I took up my baggage and followed Pete to the room where I was
to spend the night. Ugh! it was dreadful. The single window in the room was nailed down, and
the air was close and foul. The bunks were damp and dirty beyond belief, grimed with foulness,
and reeking with ill odors. This was being corralled.

I turned to Pete, saying:

"I can't stand this--I will go back to the kitchen."

"You had better follow my advice, Elder," said he very gravely. "I know things about here better
than you do. It's rough, but you had better stand it."

And I did; being corralled, I had to stand it. That fearful night! The drunken fellows staggered
in one by one, cursing and hiccoughing, until every bunk was occupied. They muttered oaths
in their sleep, and their stertorous breathings made a concert fit for Tartarus. The sickening
odors of whisky, onions, and tobacco filled the room. I lay there and longed for daylight,
which seemed as if it never would come. I thought of the descriptions I had heard and read
of hell, and just then the most vivid conception of its horror was to be shut up forever with
the aggregated impurity of the universe. But thoughts of heaven did not suit the situation;
it was more suggestive of the other place. The horror of being shut up eternally in hell as
the companion of lost spirits was intensified by the experience and reflections of that night
when I was corralled.

Day came at last. I rose with the first streaks of the dawn, and not having much toilet to
make, I was soon out-of-doors. Never did I breathe the pure, fresh air with such profound pleasure
and gratitude. I drew deep inspirations, and, opening my coat and vest, let the breeze that
swept up the valley blow upon me unrestricted. How bright, was the face of nature, and how
sweet her, breath after the sights, sounds, and smells of the night!

I did not wait for breakfast, but had my pinto and buggy brought out, and, bidding Pete good-by,
hurried on to Stockton.

"So you were corralled last night?" was the remark of a friend, quoted at the beginning of
this true sketch. "What was the name of the proprietor of the house?"

I gave him the name.

"Dave W--!" he exclaimed with fresh astonishment. "That is the roughest place in the San Joaquin
Valley. Several men have been killed and robbed there during the last two or three years."

I hope Pete got back safe to his wife and children in Iowa; and I hope I may never be corralled
again.

The Reblooming.

It is now more than twenty years since the morning a slender youth of handsome face and modest
mien came into my office on the corner of Montgomery and Clay streets, San Francisco. He was
the son of a preacher well known in Missouri and California, a man of rare good sense, caustic
wit, and many eccentricities. The young man became an attache of my newspaper-office and an
inmate of my home. He was as fair as a girl, and refined in his taste and manners. A genial
taciturnity, if the expression may be allowed, marked his bearing in the social circle. Everybody
had a kind feeling and a good word for the quiet, brightfaced youth. In the discharge of his
duties in the office he was punctual and trustworthy, showing not only industry but unusual
aptitude for business It was with special pleasure that I learned that he was turning his thoughts
to the subject of religion. During the services in the little Pine-street church he would sit
with thoughtful face, and not seldom with moistened eyes. He read the Bible and prayed in secret.
I was not surprised when he came to me one day and opened his heart. The great crisis in his
life had come. God was speaking to his soul, and he was listening to his voice. The uplifted
cross drew him, and he yielded to the gentle attraction. We prayed together, and henceforth
there was a new and sacred bond that bound us to each other. I felt that I was a witness to
the most solemn transaction that can take place on earth--the wedding of a soul to a heavenly
faith. Soon thereafter he went to Virginia, to attend college. There he united with the Church.
His letters to me were full of gratitude and joy. It was the blossoming of his spiritual life,
and the air was full of its fragrance, and the earth was flooded with glory. A pedestrian tour
among the Virginia hills brought him into communion with Nature at a time when it was rapture
to drink in its beauty and its grandeur. The light kindled within his soul by the touch of
the Holy Spirit transfigured the scenery upon which he gazed, and the glory of God shone round
about the young student in the flush and blessedness of his first love. O blessed days! O days
of brightness, and sweetness, and rapture! The soul is then in its blossoming-time, and all
high enthusiasms, all bright dreams, all thrilling joys, are realities which inwork themselves
into the consciousness, to be forgotten never; to remain with us as prophecies of the eternal
springtime that awaits the true-hearted on the hills of God beyond the grave, or as accusing
voices charging us with the murder of our dead ideals! Amid the dust and din of the battle
in after-years we turn to this radiant spot in our journey with smiles or tears; according
as we have been true or false to the impulses, aspirations, and purposes inspired within us
by that first, and brightest, and nearest manifestation of God. Such a season is a natural
to every life as the April buds and June roses are to forest and garden. The springtime of
some lives is deferred by unpropitious circumstance to the time when it should be glowing with
autumnal glory, and rich in the fruitage of the closing year. The life that does not blossom
into religion in youth may have light at noon, and peace at sunset, but misses the morning
glory on the hills, and the dew that sparkles on grass and flower. The call of God to the young
to seek him early is the expression of a true psychology no less than of a love infinite in
its depth and tenderness.

His college-course finished, my young friend returned to California, and in one of its beautiful
valley-towns he entered a law-office, with a view to prepare himself for the legal profession.
Here he was thrown into daily association with a little knot of skeptical lawyers. As is often
the case, their moral obliquities ran parallel with their errors in opinion. They swore, gambled
genteelly, and drank. It is not strange that in this icy atmosphere the growth of any young
friend in the Christian life was stunted. Such influences are like the dreaded north wind that
at times sweeps over the valleys of California in the spring and early summer, blighting and
withering the vegetation it does not kill. The brightness of his hope was dimmed, and his soul
knew the torture of doubt--a torture that is always keenest to him who allows himself to sink
in the region of fogs after he has once stood upon the sunlit summit of faith. Just at this
crisis, a thing little in itself deepened the shadow that was falling upon his life. A personal
misunderstanding with the pastor kept him from attending church. Thus he lost the most effectual
defense against the assaults that were being made upon his faith and hope, in being separated
from the fellowship and cut off from the activities of the Church of God. Have you not noted
these malign coincidences in life? There are times when it seems that the tide of events sets
against us when, like the princely sufferer of the land of Uz, every messenger that crosses
the threshold brings fresh tidings of ill, and our whole destiny seems to be rushing to a predoomed
perdition. The worldly call it bad luck; the superstitious call it fate; the believer in God
calls it by another name. Always of a delicate constitution, my friend now exhibited symptoms
of serious pulmonary disease. It was at that time the fashion in California to prescribe whisky
as a specific for that class of ailments. It is possible that there is virtue in the prescription,
but I am sure of one thing, namely, that if consumption diminished, drunkenness increased;
if fewer died of phthisis, more died of delirium tremens. The physicians of California have
sent a host of victims raving and gibbering in drunken frenzy or idiocy down to death and hell!
I have reason to believe that my friend inherited a constitutional weakness at this point.
As flame to tinder, was the medicinal whisky to him. It grew upon him rapidly, and soon this
cloud overshadowed all his life. He struggled hard to break the serpent-folds that were tightening
around him; but the fire that had been kindled seemed to be quenchless. An uncontrolled evil
passion is hellfire. He writhed in its burnings in an agony that could be understood only by
such as knew how almost morbidly sensitive was his nature, and how vital was his conscience.
I became a pastor in the town where he lived, and renewed my association with him as far as
I could. But there was a constraint unlike the old times. When under the influence of liquor,
he would pass me in the streets with his head down, a deeper flush mantling his cheek as he
hurried by with unsteady step. Sometimes I met him staggering homeward through a back street,
hiding from the gaze of men. He was at first shy of me when sober, but gradually the constraint
wore off, and he seemed disposed to draw nearer to me, as in the old days. His struggle went
on, days of drunkenness following weeks of soberness, his haggard face after each debauch wearing
a look of unspeakable weariness and wretchedness. One of the lawyers who had led him into the
mazes of doubt--a man of large and versatile gifts, whose lips were touched with a noble and
persuasive eloquence--sunk deeper and deeper into the black depths of drunkenness, until the
tragedy ended in a horror that lessened the gains of the saloons for at least a few days. He
was found dead in his bed one morning in a pool of blood, his throat cut by his own guilty hand.

My friend had married a lovely girl, and the cottage in which they lived was one of the coziest,
and the garden in front was a little paradise of neatness and beauty. Ah! I must drop a veil
over a part of this true tale. All along I have written under half protest, the image of a
sad, wistful face rising at times between my eyes and the sheet on which these words are traced.
They loved each other tenderly and deeply, and both were conscious of the presence of the devil
that was turning their heaven into hell.

"Save him, Doctor, save him! He is the noblest of men, and the tenderest, truest husband. He
loves you, and he will let you talk to him. Save him, O save him! Help me to pray for him!
My heart will break!"

Poor child! her loving heart was indeed breaking; and her fresh young life was crushed under
a weight of grief and shame too heavy to be borne.

What he said to me in the interviews held in his sober intervals I have not the heart to repeat
now. He still fought against his enemy; he still buffeted the billows that were going over
him, though with feebler stroke. When their little child died, her tears fell freely, but he
was like one stunned. Stony and silent he stood and saw the little grave filled up, and rode
away tearless, the picture of hopelessness.

By a coincidence; after my return to San Francisco, he came thither, and again became my neighbor
at North Beach. I went up to see him one evening. He was very feeble, and it was plain that
the end was not far off. At the first glance I saw that a great change had taken place in him.

He had found his lost self. The strong drink was shut out from him, and he was shut in with
his better thoughts and with God. His religious life rebloomed in wondrous beauty and sweetness.
The blossoms of his early joy had fallen off, the storms had torn its branches and stripped
it of its foliage, but its root had never perished, because he had never ceased to struggle
for deliverance. Aspiration and hope live or die together in the human soul. The link that
bound my friend to God was never wholly sundered. His better nature clung to the better way
with a grasp that never let go altogether.

"O Doctor, I am a wonder to myself! It does seem to me that God has given back to me every
good thing I possessed in the bright and blessed past. It has all come back to me. I see the
light and feel the joy as I did when I first entered the new life. O it is wonderful! Doctor,
God never gave me up, and I never ceased to yearn for his mercy and love, even in the darkest
season of my unhappy life?"

His very face had recovered its old look, and his voice its old tone. There could be no doubt
of this soul had rebloomed in the life of God.

The last night came--they sent for me with the message,

"Come quickly! he is dying."

I found him with that look which I have seen on the faces of others who were nearing death--a
radiance and a rapture that awed the beholder. O solemn, awful mystery of death! I have stood
in its presence in every form of terror and of sweetness, and in every case the thought has
been impressed upon me that it was a passage into the Great Realities.

"Doctor," he said, smiling, and holding my hand; "I had hoped to be with you in your office
again, as in the old days--not as a business arrangement, but just to be with you, and revive
old memories, and to live the old life over again. But that cannot be, and I must wait till
we meet in the world of spirits, whither I go before you. It seems to be growing dark. I cannot
see your face hold my hand. I am going--going. I am on the waves--on the waves--." The radiance
was still upon his face, but the hand I held no longer clasped mine-the wasted form was still.
It was the end. He was launched upon the Infinite Sea for the endless voyage.

The Emperor Norton.

That was his title. He wore it with an air that was a strange mixture of the mock-heroic and
the pathetic. He was mad on this one point, and strangely shrewd and well-informed on almost
every other. Arrayed in a faded-blue uniform, with brass buttons and epaulettes, wearing a
cocked-hat with an eagle's feather, and at times with a rusty sword at his side, he was a conspicuous
figure in the streets of San Francisco, and a regular habitue of all its public places. In
person he was stout, full-chested, though slightly stooped, with a large head heavily coated
with bushy black hair, an aquiline nose, and dark gray eyes, whose mild expression added to
the benignity of his face. On the end of his nose grew a tuft of long hairs, which he seemed
to prize as a natural mark of royalty, or chieftainship. Indeed, there was a popular legend
afloat that he was of true royal blood--a stray Bourbon, or something of the sort. His speech
was singularly fluent and elegant. The Emperor was one of the celebrities that no visitor failed
to see. It is said that his mind was unhinged by a sudden loss of fortune in the early days,
by the treachery of a partner in trade. The sudden blow was deadly, and the quiet, thrifty,
affable man of business became a wreck. By nothing is the inmost quality of a man made more
manifest than by the manner in which he meets misfortune. One, when the sky darkens, having
strong impulse and weak will, rushes into suicide; another, with a large vein of cowardice,
seeks to drown the sense of disaster in strong drink; yet another, tortured in every fiber
of a sensitive organization, flees from the scene of his troubles and the faces of those that
know him, preferring exile to shame. The truest man, when assailed by sudden calamity, rallies
all the reserved forces of a splendid manhood to meet the shock, and, like a good ship, lifting
itself from the trough of the swelling sea, mounts the wave and rides on. It was a curious
idiosyncrasy that led this man, when fortune and reason were swept away at a stroke, to fall
back upon this imaginary imperialism. The nature that could thus, when the real fabric of life
was wrecked, construct such another by the exercise of a disordered imagination, must have
been originally of a gentle and magnanimous type. The broken fragments of mind, like those
of a statue, reveal the quality of the original creation. It may be that he was happier than
many who have worn real crowns. Napoleon at Chiselhurst, or his greater uncle at St. Helena,
might have been gainer by exchanging lots with this man, who had the inward joy of conscious
greatness without its burden and its perils. To all public places he had free access, and no
pageant was complete without his presence. From time to time he issued proclamations, signed
"Norton I.," which the lively San Francisco dailies were always ready to print conspicuously
in their columns. The style of these proclamations was stately, the royal first person plural
being used by him with all gravity and dignity. Ever and anon, as his uniform became dilapidated
or ragged, a reminder of the condition of the imperial wardrobe would be given in one or more
of the newspapers, and then in a few days he would appear in a new suit. He had the entree
of all the restaurants, and he lodged--nobody knew where. It was said that he was cared for
by members of the Freemason Society to which he belonged at the time of his fall. I saw him
often in my congregation in the Pine-street church, along in 1858, and into the sixties. He
was a respectful and attentive listener to preaching. On the occasion of one of his first visits
he spoke to me after the service, saying, in a kind and patronizing tone:

"I think it my duty to encourage religion and morality by showing myself at church, and to
avoid jealousy I attend them all in turn."

He loved children, and would come into the Sunday-school, and sit delighted with their singing.
When, in distributing the presents on a Christmas-tree, a necktie was handed him as the gift
of the young ladies, he received it with much satisfaction, making a kingly bow of gracious
acknowledgment. Meeting him one day, in the springtime, holding my little girl by the hand,
he paused, looked at the child's bright face, and taking a rose-bud from his button-hole, he
presented it to her with a manner so graceful, and a smile so benignant, as to show that under
the dingy blue uniform there beat the heart of a gentleman. He kept a keen eye on current events,
and sometimes expressed his views with great sagacity. One day he stopped me on the street, saying:

"I have just read the report of the political sermon of Dr.--(giving the name of a noted sensational
preacher, who was in the habit, at times, of discussing politics from his pulpit). I disapprove
political-preaching. What do you think?"

I expressed my cordial concurrence.

"I will put a stop to it. The preachers must stop preaching politics, or they must all come
into one State Church. I will at once issue a decree to that effect."

For some unknown reason, that decree never was promulgated.

After the war, he took a deep interest in the reconstruction of the Southern States. I met
him one day on Montgomery street, when he asked me in a tone and with a look of earnest solicitude:

"Do you hear any complaint or dissatisfaction concerning me from the South?"

I gravely answered in the negative.

"I was for keeping the country undivided, but I have the kindest feeling for the Southern people,
and will see that they are protected in all their rights. Perhaps if I were to go among them
in person, it might have a good effect. What do you think?"

I looked at him keenly as I made some suitable reply, but could see nothing in his expression
but simple sincerity. He seemed to feel that he was indeed the father of his people. George
Washington himself could not have adopted a more paternal tone.

Walking along the street behind the Emperor one day, my curiosity was a little excited by seeing
him thrust his hand into the hip-pocket of his blue trousers with sudden energy. The hip-pocket,
by the way, is a modern American stupidity, associated in the popular mind with rowdyism, pistol
shooting, and murder. Hip-pockets should be abolished wherever there are courts of law and
civilized men and women. But what was the Emperor after? Withdrawing his hand just as I overtook
him, the mystery was revealed--it grasped a thick Bologna sausage, which he began to eat with
unroyal relish. It gave me a shock, but he was not the first royal personage who has exhibited
low tastes and carnal hankerings.

He was seldom made sport of or treated rudely. I saw him on one occasion when a couple of passing
hoodlums jeered at him. He turned and gave them a look so full of mingled dignity, pain, and
surprise, that the low fellows were abashed, and uttering a forced laugh, with averted faces
they hurried on. The presence that can bring shame to a San Francisco hoodlum must indeed be
kingly, or in some way impressive. In that genus the beastliness and devilishness of American
city-life reach their lowest denomination when the brutality of the savage and the lowest forms
of civilized vice are combined, human nature touches bottom.

The Emperor never spoke of his early life. The veil of mystery on this point increased the
popular curiosity concerning him, and invested him with something of a romantic interest. There
was one thing that excited his disgust and indignation. The Bohemians of the San Francisco
press got into the practice of attaching his name to their satires and hits at current follies,
knowing that the well-known "Norton I." at the end would insure a reading. This abuse of the
liberty of the press he denounced with dignified severity, threatening extreme measures unless
it were stopped. But nowhere on earth did the press exhibit more audacity, or take a wider
range, and it would have required a sterner heart and a stronger hand than that of Norton I.
to put a hook into its jaws.

The end of all human grandeur, real or imaginary, comes at last. The Emperor became thinner
and more stooped as the years passed. The humor of his hallucination retired more and more
into the background, and its pathetic side came out more strongly. His step was slow and feeble,
and there was that look in his eyes so often seen in the old and sometimes in the young, just
before the great change comes--a rapt, far-away look, suggesting that the invisible is coming
into view, the shadows vanishing and the realities appearing. The familiar face and form were
missed on the streets, and it was known that he was dead. He had gone to his lonely lodging,
and quietly lain down and died. The newspapers spoke of him with pity and respect, and all
San Francisco took time, in the midst of its roar-and-rush fever of perpetual excitement, to
give a kind thought to the dead man who had passed over to the life where all delusions are
laid aside, where the mystery of life shall be revealed, and where we shall see that through
all its tangled web ran the golden thread of mercy. His life was an illusion, and the thousands
who sleep with him in Lone Mountain waiting the judgment-day were his brothers.

Camilla Cain.

She was from Baltimore, and had the fair face and gentle voice peculiar to most Baltimore women.
Her organization was delicate but elastic--one of the sort that bends easily, but is hard to
break. In her eyes was that look of wistful sadness so often seen in holy women of her type.
Timid as a fawn, in the class-meeting she spoke of her love to Jesus and delight in his service
in a voice low and a little hesitating, but with strangely thrilling effect. The meetings were
sometimes held in her own little parlor in the cottage on Dupont street, and then we always
felt that we had met where the Master himself was a constant and welcome guest. She was put
into the crucible. For more than fifteen years she suffered unceasing and intense bodily pain.
Imprisoned in her sick chamber, she fought her long, hard battle. The pain-distorted limbs
lost their use, the patient face waxed more wan, and the traces of agony were on it always;
the soft, loving eyes were often tear washed.  The fires were hot, and they burned on through
the long, long years without respite. The mystery of it all was too deep for me; it was too
deep for her. But somehow it does seem that the highest suffer most:

The sign of rank in Nature Is capacity for pain, And the anguish of the singer Makes the sweetness
of the strain.

The victory of her faith was complete. If the inevitable why? sometimes was in her thought,
no shadow of distrust ever fell upon her heart. Her sick-room was the quietest, brightest spot
in all the city. How often did I go thither weary and faint with the roughness of the way,
and leave feeling that I had heard the voices and inhaled the odors of paradise! A little talk,
a psalm, and then a prayer, during which the room seemed to be filled with angel-presences;
after which the thin, pale face was radiant with the light reflected from our Immanuel's face.
I often went to see her, not so much to convey as to get a blessing. Her heart was kept fresh
as a rose of Sharon in the dew of the morning. The children loved to be near her; and the pathetic
face of the dear crippled boy, the pet of the family, was always brighter in her presence.
Thrice death came into the home-circle with its shock and mighty wrenchings of the heart, but
the victory was not his, but hers. Neither death nor life could separate her from the love
of her Lord. She was one of the elect. The elect are those who know, having the witness in
themselves. She was conqueror of both--life with its pain and its weariness, death with its
terror and its tragedy. She did not endure merely, she triumphed. Borne on the wings of a mighty
faith, her soul was at times lifted above all sin, and temptation, and pain, and the sweet,
abiding peace swelled into an ecstasy of sacred joy. Her swimming eyes and rapt look told the
unutterable secret. She has crossed over the narrow stream on whose margin she lingered so
long; and there was joy on the other side when the gentle, patient, holy Camilla Cain joined
the glorified throng.

Lone Mountain.

The sea-wind sweeps over the spot at times in gusts like the frenzy of hopeless grief, and
at times in sighs as gentle as those heaved by aged sorrow in sight of eternal rest. The voices
of the great city come faintly over the sand-hills, with subdued murmur like a lullaby to the
pale sleepers that are here lying low. When the winds are quiet, which is not often, the moan
of the mighty Pacific can be heard day or night, as if it voiced in muffled tones the unceasing
woe of a world under the reign of death. Westward, on the summit of a higher hill, a huge cross
stretches its arms as if embracing the living and the dead-the first object that catches the
eye of the weary voyager as he nears the Golden Gate, the last that meets his lingering gaze
as he goes forth upon the great waters. O sacred emblem of the faith with which we launch upon
life's stormy main--of the hope that assures that we shall reach the port when the night and
the tempest are past! When the winds are high, the booming of the breakers on the cliff sounds
as if nature were impatient of the long, long delay, and had anticipated the last thunders
that wake the sleeping dead. On a clear day, the blue Pacific, stretching away beyond the snowy
surf-line, symbolizes the shoreless sea that rolls through eternity. The Cliff House road that
runs hard by is the chief drive of the pleasure-seekers of San Francisco. Gayety, and laughter,
and heart-break, and tears, meet on the drive; the wail of agony and the laugh of gladness
mingle as the gay crowds dash by the slow-moving procession on its way to the grave. How often
have I made that slow, sad journey to Lone Mountain--a Via Doloroso to many who have never
been the same after they had gone thither, and coming back found the light quenched and the
music bushed in their homes! Thither the dead Senator was borne, followed by the tramping thousands,
rank on rank, amid the booming of minute-guns, the tolling of bells, the measured tread of
plumed soldiers, and the roll of drums. Thither was carried, in his rude coffin, the "unknown
man" found dead in the streets, to be buried in potter's-field. Thither was borne the hard
and grasping idolater of riches, who clung to his coin, and clutched for more, until he was
dragged away by the one hand that was colder and stronger than his own. Here was brought the
little child, out of whose narrow grave there blossomed the beginnings of a new life to the
father and mother, who in the better life to come will be found among the blessed company of
those whose only path to paradise lay through the valley of tears. Here were brought the many
wanderers, whose last earthly wish was to go back home, on the other side of the mountains,
to die, but were denied by the stern messenger who never waits nor spares. And here was brought
the mortal part of the aged disciple of Jesus, in whose dying-chamber the two worlds met, and
whose death-throes were demonstrably the birth of a child of God into the life of glory.

The first time I ever visited the place was to attend the funeral of a suicide. The dead man
I had known in Virginia, when I was a boy. He was a graduate of the Virginia Military Institute,
and when I first knew him he was the captain of a famous volunteer company. He was as handsome
as a picture--the admiration of the girls, and the envy of the young men of his native town.
He was among the first who rushed to California on the discovery of gold, and of all the heroic
men who gave early California its best bias none was knightlier than this handsome Virginian;
none won stronger friends, or had brighter hopes. He was the first State Senator from San Francisco.
He had the magnetism that won and the nobility that retained the love of men. Some men push
themselves forward by force of intellect or of will--this man was pushed upward by his friends
because he had their hearts. He married a beautiful woman, whom he loved literally unto death.
I shall not recite the whole story. God only knows it fully, and he will judge righteously.
There was trouble, rage, and tears, passionate partings and penitent reunions--the old story
of love dying a lingering yet violent death. On the fatal morning I met him on Washington street.
I noticed his manner was hurried and his look peculiar, as I gave him the usual salutation
and a hearty grasp of the hand. As be moved away, I looked after him with mingled admiration
and pity, until his faultless figure turned the corner and disappeared.

Ten minutes afterward he lay on the floor of his room dead, with a bullet through his brain,
his hair dabbled in blood. At the funeral-service, in the little church on Pine street, strong
men bowed their heads and sobbed. His wife sat on a front seat, pale as marble and as motionless,
her lips compressed as with inward pain; but I saw no tears on the beautiful face. At the grave
the body had been lowered to its resting-place, and all being ready, the attendants standing
with uncovered heads, I was just about to begin the reading of the solemn words of the burial
service, when a tall, blue-eyed man with gray side-whiskers pushed his way to the head of the
grave, and in a voice choked with passion, exclaimed:

"There lies as noble a gentleman as ever breathed, and he owes his death to that fiend!" pointing
his finger at the wife, who stood pale and silent looking down into the grave.

She gave him a look that I shall never forget, and the large steely-blue eyes flashed fire,
but she spoke no word. I spoke:

"Whatever maybe your feelings, or whatever the occasion for them, you degrade yourself by such
an exhibition of them here."

"That is so, sir; excuse me, my feelings overcame me," he said, and retiring a few steps, he
leaned upon a branch of a scrub-oak and sobbed like a child.

The farce and the tragedy of real life were here exhibited on another occasion. Among my acquaintances
in the city were a man and his wife who were singularly mismatched. He was a plain, unlettered,
devout man, who in a prayer-meeting or class-meeting talked with a simple-hearted earnestness
that always produced a happy effect.

She was a cultured woman, ambitious and worldly, and so fine-looking that in her youth she
must have been a beauty and a belle. They lived in different worlds, and grew wider apart as
time passed by--he giving himself to religion, she giving herself to the world. In the gay
city circles in which she moved she was a little ashamed of the quiet, humble old man, and
he did not feel at home among them. There was no formal separation, but it was known to the
friends of the family that for months at a time they never lived together. The fashionable
daughters went with their mother. The good old man, after a short sickness, died in great peace.
I was sent for to officiate at the funeral-service. There was a large gathering of people,
and a brave parade of all the externals of grief, but it was mostly dry-eyed grief, so far
as I could see. At the grave, just as the sun that was sinking in the ocean threw his last
rays upon the spot, and the first shovelful of earth fell upon the coffin that had been gently
lowered to its resting-place, there was a piercing shriek from one of the carriages, followed
by the exclamation:

"What shall I do? How can I live? I have lost my all! O! O! O!"

It was the dead man's wife. Significant glances and smiles were interchanged by the bystanders.
Approaching the carriage in which the woman was sitting, I laid my hand upon her arm, looked
her in the face, and said:

"Hush!"

She understood me, and not another sound did she utter. Poor woman! She was not perhaps as
heartless as they thought she was. There was at least a little remorse in those forced exclamations,
when she thought of the dead man in the coffin; but her eyes were dry, and she stopped very short.

Another incident recurs to me that points in a different direction. One day the most noted
gambler in San Francisco called on me with the request that I should attend the funeral of
one of his friends, who had died the night before. A splendid-looking fellow was this knight
of the faro-table. More than six feet in height, with deep chest and perfectly rounded limbs,
jet black hair, brilliant black eyes, clear olive complexion, and easy manners, he might have
been taken for an Italian nobleman or a Spanish Don. He had a tinge of Cherokee blood in his
veins. I have noticed that this cross of the white and Cherokee blood often results in producing
this magnificent physical development. I have known a number of women of this lineage, who
were very queens in their beauty and carriage. But this noted gambler was illiterate. The only
book of which he knew or cared much was one that had fifty-two pages, with twelve pictures.
If he had been educated, he might have handled the reins of government, instead of presiding
over a nocturnal banking institution.

"Parson, can you come to number--, on Kearney street, tomorrow at ten o'clock, and give us
a few words and a prayer over a friend of mine, who died last night?"

I promised to be there, and he left.

His friend, like himself, had been a gambler. He was from New York. He was well educated, gentle
in his manners, and a general favorite with the rough and desperate fellows with whom he associated,
but with whom he seemed out of place. The passion for gambling had put its terrible spell on
him, and be was helpless in its grasp. But though he mixed with the crowds that thronged the
gambling-hells, he was one of them only in the absorbing passion for play. There was a certain
respect shown him by all that venturesome fraternity. He went to Frazer River during the gold
excitement. In consequence of exposure and privation in that wild chase after gold, which proved
fatal to so many eager adventurers, he contracted pulmonary disease, and came back to San Francisco
to die. He had not a dollar. His gambler friend took charge of him, placed him in a good boarding-place,
hired a nurse for him, and for nearly a year provided for all his wants.

Newton.

The miners called him the "Wandering Jew." That was behind his back. To his face they addressed
him as Father Newton. He walked his circuits in the northern mines. No pedestrian could keep
up with him, as with his long form bending forward, his immense yellow beard that reached to
his breast floating in the wind, he strode from camp to camp with the message of salvation.
It took a good trotting-horse to keep pace with him. Many a stout prospector, meeting him on
a highway, after panting and straining to bear him company, had to fall behind, gazing after
him in wonder, as he swept out of sight at that marvelous gait. There was a glitter in his
eye, and an intensity of gaze that left you in doubt whether it was genius or madness that
it bespoke. It was, in truth, a little of both. He had genius. Nobody ever talked with him,
or heard him preach, without finding it out. The rough fellow who offended him at a camp-meeting,
near "Yankee Jim's," no doubt thought him mad. He was making some disturbance just as the long
bearded old preacher was passing with a bucket of water in his hand.

"What do you mean?" he thundered, stopping and fixing his keen eye upon the rowdy.

A rude and profane reply was made by the jeering sinner.

Quick as thought Newton rushed upon him with flashing eye and uplifted bucket, a picture of
fiery wrath that was too much for the thoughtless scoffer, who fled in terror amid the laughter
of the crowd. The vanquished son of Belial had no sympathy from anybody, and the plucky preacher
was none the less esteemed because he was ready to defend his Master's cause with carnal weapons.
The early Californians left scarcely any path of sin unexplored, and were a sad set of sinners,
but for virtuous women and religion they never lost their reverence. Both were scarce in those
days, when it seemed to be thought that gold-digging and the Decalogue could not be made to
harmonize. The pioneer preachers found that one good woman made a better basis for evangelization
than a score of nomadic bachelors. The first accession of a woman to a church in the mines
was an epoch in its history. The church in the house of Lydia was the normal type--it must
be anchored to woman's faith, and tenderness, and love, in the home.

He visited San Francisco during my pastorate in 1858. On Sunday morning he preached a sermon
of such extraordinary beauty and power that at the night-service the house was crowded by a
curious congregation, drawn thither by the report of the forenoon effort. His subject was the
faith of the mother of Moses, and he handled it in his own way. The powerful effect of one
passage I shall never forget. It was a description of the mother's struggle, and the victory
of her faith in the crisis of her trial. No longer able to protect her child, she resolves
to commit him to her God. He drew a picture of her as she sat weaving together the grasses
of the little ark of bulrushes, her hot tears falling upon her work, and pausing from time
to time with her hand pressed upon her throbbing heart. At length, the little vessel is finished,
and she goes by night to the bank of the Nile, to take the last chance to save her boy from
the knife of the murderers. Approaching the river's edge, with the ark in her hands, she stoops
a moment, but her mother's heart fails her. How can she give up her child? In frenzy of grief
she sinks upon her knees, and lifting her gaze to the heavens, passionately prays to the God
of Israel. That prayer! It was the wail of a breaking heart, a cry out of the depths of a mighty
agony. But as she prays the inspiration of God enters her soul, her eyes kindle, and her face
beams with the holy light of faith. She rises, lifts the little ark, looks upon the sleeping
face of the fair boy, prints a long, long kiss upon his brow, and then with a firm step she
bends down, and placing the tiny vessel upon the waters, lets it go. "And away it went," he,
said, "rocking upon the waves as it swept beyond the gaze of the mother's straining eyes. The
monsters of the deep were there, the serpent of the Nile was there, behemoth was there, but
the child slept as sweetly and as safely upon the rocking waters as if it were nestled upon
its mother's breast--for God was there!" The effect was electric. The concluding words, "for
God was there!" were uttered with upturned face and lifted hands, and in a tone of voice that
thrilled the hearers like a sudden clap of thunder from a cloud over whose bosom the lightnings
had rippled in gentle flashes. It was true eloquence.

In a revival meeting, on another occasion, he said, in a sermon of terrific power: "O the hardness
of the human heart! Yonder is a man in hell. He is told that there is one condition on which
he may be delivered, and that is that lie must get the consent of every good being in the universe.
A ray of hope enters his soul, and he sets out to comply with the condition. He visits heaven
and earth, and finds sympathy and consent from all. All the holy angels consent to his pardon;
all the pure and holy on earth consent; God himself repeats the assurance of his willingness
that he maybe saved. Even in hell, the devils do not object, knowing that his misery only heightens
theirs. All are willing, all are ready--all but one man. He refuses; he will not consent. A
monster of cruelty and wickedness, he refuses his simple consent to save a soul from an eternal
hell! Surely a good God and all good beings in the universe would turn in horror from such
a monster. Sinner, you are that man! The blessed God, the Holy Trinity, every angel in heaven,
every good man and woman on earth, are not only willing but anxious that you shall be saved.
But you will not consent. You refuse to come to Jesus that you may have life. You are the murderer
of your own immortal soul. You drag yourself down to hell. You lock the door of your own dungeon
of eternal despair, and throw the key into the bottomless pit, by rejecting the Lord that bought
you with his blood! You will be lost! you must be lost! you ought to be lost."

The words were something like these, but the energy, the passion, the frenzy of the speaker
must be imagined. Hard and stubborn hearts were moved under that thrilling appeal. They were
made to feel that the preacher's picture of a self doomed soul described their own eases. There
was joy in heaven that night over repenting sinners.

This old man of the mountains was a walking encyclopedia of theological and other learning.
He owned books that could not be duplicated in California; and he read them, digested their
contents, and constantly surprised his cultivated bearers by the affluence of his knowledge,
and the fertility of his literary and classic allusion. He wrote with elegance and force. His
weak point was orthography. He would trip sometimes in the spelling of the most common words.
His explanation of this weakness was curious: He was a printer in Mobile, Alabama. On one occasion
a thirty-two-page book-form of small type was "pied." "I undertook,", said he, "to set that
pied form to rights, and, in doing so, the words got so mixed in my brain that my spelling
was spoiled forever!"

He went to Oregon, and traveled and preached from the Cascade Mountains to Idaho, thrilling,
melting, and amusing, in turn, the crowds that came out to hear the wild-looking man whose
coming was so sudden, and whose going as so rapid, that they were lost in wonder, as if gazing
at a meteor that flashed across the sky.

He was a Yankee from New Hampshire, who, going to Alabama, lost his heart, and was ever afterward
intensely Southern in all his convictions and affections. His fiery soul found congenial spirits
among the generous, hotblooded people of the Gulf States, whose very faults had a sort of charm
for this impulsive, generous, erratic, gifted, man. He made his way back to his New England
hills, where he is waiting for the sunset, often turning a longing eye southward, and now and
then sending a greeting to Alabama.

The California Politician.

The California politician of the early days was plucky. He had to be so, for faint heart won
no votes in those rough times. One of the Marshalls (Tom or Ned--I forget which), at the beginning
of a stump speech one night in the mines, was interrupted by a storm of hisses and execrations
from a turbulent crowd of fellows, many of whom were full of whisky. He paused a moment, drew
himself up to his full height, coolly took a pistol from his pocket, laid it on the stand before
him, and said:

"I have seen bigger crowds than this many a time. I want it to be fully understood that I came
here to make a speech tonight, and I am going to do it, or else there will be a funeral or two."

That touch took with that crowd. The one thing they all believed in was courage. Marshall made
one of his grandest speeches, and at the close the delighted miners bore him in triumph from
the rostrum.

That was a curious exordium of "Uncle Peter Mehan," when he made his first stump-speech at
Sonora: "Fellow-citizens, I was born an orphin at a very early period of my life." He was a
candidate for supervisor, and the good-natured miners elected him triumphantly. He made a good
supervisor, which is another proof that book-learning and elegant rhetoric are not essential
where there are integrity and native good sense. Uncle Peter never stole any thing, and he
was usually on the right side of all questions that claimed the attention of the county-fathers
of Tuolumne.

In the early days, the Virginians, New Yorkers, and Tennesseans, led in politics. Trained to
the stump at home, the Virginians and Tennesseans were ready on all occasions to run a primary-meeting,
a convention, or a canvass. There was scarcely a mining-camp in the State in which there was
not a leading local politician from one or both of these States. The New Yorker understood
all the inside management of party organization, and was up to all the smart tactics developed
in the lively struggles of parties in the times when Whiggery and Democracy fiercely fought
for rule in the Empire State. Broderick was a New Yorker, trained by Tammany in its palmy days.
He was a chief, who rose from the ranks, and ruled by force of will. Thick-set, strong-limbed,
full-chested, with immense driving-power in his back-head, he was an athlete whose stalwart
physique was of more value to him than the gift of eloquence, or even the power of money. The
sharpest lawyers and the richest money-kings alike went down before this uncultured and moneyless
man, who dominated the clans of San Francisco simply by right of his manhood. He was not without
a sort of eloquence of his own. He spoke right to the point, and his words fell like the thud
of a shillalah; or rang like the clash of steel. He dealt with the rough elements of politics
in an exciting and turbulent period of California politics, and was more of a border chief
than an Ivanhoe in his modes of warfare. He reached the United States Senate, and in his first
speech in that august body he honored his manhood by an allusion to his father, a stone mason,
whose hands, said Broderick, had helped to erect the very walls of the chamber in which he
spoke. When a man gets as high as the United States Senate, there is less tax upon his magnanimity
in acknowledging his humble origin than while he is lower down the ladder. You seldom hear
a man boast how low he began until he is far up toward the summit of his ambition. Ninety-nine
out of every hundred self-made men are at first more or less sensitive concerning their low
birth; the hundredth man who is not is a man indeed.

Broderick's great rival was Gwin. The men were antipodes in every thing except that they belonged
to the same party. Gwin still lives, the most colossal figure in the history of California.
He looks the man he is. Of immense frame, ruddy complexion, deep-blue eyes that almost blaze
when he is excited, rugged yet expressive features, a massive bead crowned with a heavy suit
of silver-white hair, he is marked by Nature for leadership. Common men seem dwarfed in his
presence. After he had dropped out of California politics for awhile, a Sacramento hotel-keeper
expressed what many felt during a legislative session: "I find myself looking around for Gwin.
I miss the chief."

My first acquaintance with Dr. Gwin began with, an incident that illustrates the man and the
times. It was in 1856. The Legislature was in session at Sacramento, and a United States Senator
was to, be elected. I was making a tentative movement toward starting a Southern Methodist
newspaper, and visited Sacramento on that business. My friend Major P. L. Solomon was there,
and took a friendly interest in my enterprise. He proposed to introduce me to the leading men
of both parties, and I thankfully availed myself of his courtesy. Among the first to whom he
presented me was a noted politician who, both before and since, has enjoyed a national notoriety,
and who still lives, and is as, ready as ever to talk or fight. His name I need not give. I
presented to him my mission, and he seemed embarrassed.

"I am with you, of course. My mother was a Methodist, and all my sympathies are with the Methodist
Church. I am a Southern man in all my convictions and impulses, and I am a Southern Methodist
in principle. But you see, sir, I am a candidate for United States Senator, and sectional feeling
is likely to enter into the contest, and if it were known that my name was on your list of
subscribers, it might endanger my election."

He squeezed my arm, told me he loved me and my Church, said he would be happy to see me often,
and so forth--but he did not give me his name. I left him, saying in my heart, Here is a politician.

Going on together, in the corridor we met Gwin. Solomon introduced me, and told him my business.

"I am glad to know that you are going to start a Southern Methodist newspaper. No Church can
do without its organ. Put me down on your list, and come with me, and I will make all these
fellows subscribe. There is not much religion among them, I fear, but we will make them take
the paper."

This was said in a hearty and pleasant way, and he took me from man to man, until I had gotten
more than a dozen names, among them two or three of his most active political opponents.

This incident exhibits the two types of the politician, and the two classes of men to be found
in all communities--the one all "blarney" and selfishness, the other with real manhood redeeming
poor human nature, and saving it from utter contempt. The senatorial prize eluded the grasp
of both aspirants, but the reader will not be at a loss to guess whose side I was on. Dr. Gwin
made a friend that day, and never lost him. It was this sort of fidelity to friends that, when
fortune frowned on the grand old Senator after the collapse at Appomattox, rallied thousands
of true hearts to his side, among whom were those who had fought him in many a fierce political
battle. Broderick and Gwin were both, by a curious turn of political fortune, elected by the
same Legislature to the United States Senate. Broderick sleeps in Lone Mountain, and Gwin still
treads the stage of his former glory, a living monument of the days when California politics
was half romance and half tragedy. The friend and protege of General Andrew Jackson, a member
of the first Constitutional Convention of California, twice United States Senator, a prominent
figure in the civil war, the father of the great Pacific Railway, he is the front figure on
the canvas of California history.

Gwin was succeeded by McDougall. What a man was he! His face was as classic as a Greek statue.
It spoke the student and the scholar in every line. His hair was snow-white, his eyes bluish
gray, and his form sinewy and elastic. He went from Illinois, with Baker and other men of genius,
and soon won a high place at the bar of San Francisco. I heard it said, by an eminent jurist,
that when McDougall had put his whole strength into the examination of a case, his side of
it was exhausted. His reading was immense, his learning solid. His election was doubtless a
surprise to himself as well as to the California public. The day before he left for Washington
City, I met him in the street, and as we parted I held his hand a moment, and said:

"Your friends will watch your career with hope and with fear."

He knew what I meant, and said, quickly:

"I understand you. You are afraid that I will yield to my weakness for strong drink. But you
may be sure I will play the man, and California shall have no cause to blush on my account."

That was his fatal weakness. No one, looking upon his pale, scholarly face, and noting his
faultlessly neat apparel, and easy, graceful manners, would have thought of such a thing. Yet
he was a--I falter in writing it--a drunkard. At times he drank deeply and madly. When half
intoxicated he was almost as brilliant as Hamlet, and as rollicking as Falstaff. It was said
that even when fully drunk his splendid intellect never entirely gave way.

"McDougall commands as much attention in the Senate when drunk as any other Senator does when
sober," said a Congressman in Washington in 1866. It is said that his great speech on the question
of "confiscation," at the beginning of the war, was delivered when he was in a state of semi-intoxication.
Be that as it may, it exhausted the whole question, and settled the policy of the Government.

"No one will watch your senatorial career with more friendly interest than myself; and if you
will abstain wholly from all strong drink, we shall all, be proud of you, I know."

"Not a drop will I touch, my friend; and I'll make you proud of me."

He spoke feelingly, and I think there was a moisture about his eye as he pressed my hand and
walked away.

I never saw him again. For the first few months he wrote to me often, and then his letters
came at longer intervals, and then they ceased. And then the newspapers disclosed the shameful
secret California's brilliant Senator was a drunkard. The temptations of the Capital were too
strong for him. He went down into the black waters a complete wreck. He returned to the old
home of his boyhood in New Jersey to die. I learned that he was lucid and penitent at the last.
They brought his body back to San Francisco to be buried, and when at his funeral the words
"I know that my Redeemer liveth," in clear soprano, rang through the vaulted cathedral like
a peal of triumph, I indulged the hope that the spirit of my gifted and fated friend had, through
the mercy of the Friend of sinners, gone from his boyhood hills up to the hills of God.

The typical California politician was Coffroth. The "boys" fondly called him "Jim" Coffroth.
There is no surer sign of popularity than a popular abbreviation of this sort, unless it is
a pet nickname. Coffroth was from Pennsylvania, where he had gained an inkling of polities
and general literature. He gravitated into California polities by the law of his nature. He
was born for this, having what a friend calls the gift of popularity. His presence was magnetic;
his laugh was contagious; his enthusiasm irresistible. Nobody ever thought of taking offense
at Jim Coffroth. He could change his politics with impunity without losing a friend--he never
had a personal enemy; but I believe he only made that experiment once. He went off with the
Know-nothings in 1855, and was elected by them to the State Senate, and was called to preside
over their State Convention. He hastened back to his old party associates, and at the first
convention that met in his county on his return from the Legislature, he rose and told them
how lonesome he had felt while astray from the old fold, how glad he was to get back, and how
humble he felt, concluding by advising all his late supporters to do as he had done by taking
"a straight chute" for the old party. He ended amid a storm of applause, was reinstated at
once, and was made President of the next Democratic State Convention. There he was in his glory.
His tact and good humor were infinite, and he held those hundreds of excitable and explosive
men in the hollow of his hand. He would dismiss a dangerous motion with a witticism so apt
that the mover himself would join in the laugh, and give it up. His broad face in repose was
that of a Quaker, at other times that of a Bacchus. There was a religious streak in this jolly
partisan, and he published several poems that breathed the sweetest and loftiest religious
sentiment. The newspapers were a little disposed to make a joke of these ebullitions of devotional
feeling, but they now make the light that casts a gleam of brightness upon the background of
his life. I take from an old volume of the Christian Spectator one of these poems as a literary
curiosity. Every man lives two lives. The rollicking politician, "Jim Coffroth," every Californian
knew; the author of these lines was another man by the same name:

Amid the Silence of the Night. "Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep."
Psalm cxxi.

Amid the silence of the night, Amid its lonely hours and dreary, When we Close the aching sight,
Musing sadly, lorn and weary, Trusting that tomorrow's light May reveal a day more cheery;

Amid affliction's darker hour, When no hope beguiles our sadness, When Death's hurtling tempests
lower, And forever shroud our gladness, While Grief's unrelenting power Goads our stricken
hearts to madness;

When from friends beloved we're parted, And from scenes our spirits love, And are driven, broken-hearted,
O'er a heartless world to rove; When the woes by which we've smarted, Vainly seek to melt or
move; When we trust and are deluded, When we love and are denied, When the schemes o'er which
we brooded Burst like mist on mountain's side, And, from every hope excluded, We in dark despair
abide;

Then, and ever, God sustains us, He whose eye no slumber knows, Who controls each throb that
pains us, And in mercy sends our woes, And by love severe constrains us To avoid eternal throes.

Happy he whose heart obeys him! Lost and ruined who disown! O if idols e'er displace him, Tear
them from his chosen throne! May our lives and language praise him! May our hearts be his alone!

He took defeat with a good nature that robbed it of its sting, and made his political opponents
half sorry for having beaten him. He was talked of for Governor at one time, and he gave as
a reason, why he would like the office that "a great many of his friends were in the State-prison,
and he wanted to use the pardoning power in their behalf." This was a jest, of course, referring
to the fact that as a lawyer much of his practice was in the criminal courts. He was never
suspected of treachery or dishonor in public or private life. His very ambition was unselfish:
he was always ready to sacrifice himself in a hopeless candidacy if he could thereby help his
party or a friend.

His good nature was tested once while presiding over a party convention at Sonora for the nomination
of candidates for legislative and county offices. Among the delegates was the eccentric John
Vallew, whose mind was a singular compound of shrewdness and flightiness, and was stored with
the most out-of-the-way scraps of learning, philosophy, and poetry. Some one proposed Vallew's
name as a candidate for the Legislature. He rose to his feet with a clouded face, and in an
angry voice said:

"Mr. President, I am surprised and mortified. I have lived in this county more than seven years,
and I have never had any difficulty with my neighbors. I did not know that I had an enemy in
the world. What have I done, that it should be proposed to send me to the Legislature? What
reason has anybody to think I am that sort of a man? To think I should have come to this! To
propose to send me to the Legislature, when it is a notorious fact that you have never sent
a man thither from this county who did not come back morally and pecuniarily ruined!"

The crowd saw the point, and roared with laughter, Coffroth, who had served in the previous
session, joining heartily in the merriment. Vallew was excused.

Coffroth grew fatter and jollier; his strong intellect struggled against increasing sensual
tendencies. What the issue might have been, I know not. He died suddenly, and his destiny was
transferred to another sphere. So there dropped out of California-life a partisan without bitterness,
a satirist without malice, a wit without a sting, the jolliest, freest, readiest man that ever
faced a California audience on the hustings--the typical politician of California.

Old Man Lowry.

I had marked his expressive physiognomy among my hearers in the little church in Sonora for
some weeks before he made himself known to me. As I learned afterward, he was weighing the
young preacher in his critical balances. He had a shrewd Scotch face, in which there was a
mingling of keenness, benignity, and humor. His age might be sixty, or it might be more. He
was an old bachelor, and wide guesses are sometimes made as to the ages of that class of men.
They may not live longer than married men, but they do not show the effects of life's wear
and tear so early. He came to see us one evening. He fell in love with the mistress of the
parsonage, just as he ought to have done, and we were charmed with the quaint old bachelor.
There was a piquancy, a sharp flavor, in his talk that was delightful. His aphorisms often
crystallized a neglected truth in a form all his own. He was an original character. There was
nothing commonplace about him. He had his own way of saying and doing every thing.

Society in the mines was limited in that day, and we felt that we had found a real thesaurus
in this old man of unique mold. His visits were refreshing to us, and his plain-spoken criticisms
were helpful to me.

He had left the Church because he did not agree with the preachers on some points of Christian
ethics, and because they used tobacco. But he was unhappy on the outside, and finding that
my views and habits did not happen to cross his peculiar notions, he came back. His religious
experience was out of the common order. Bred a Calvinist, of the good old Scotch-Presbyterian
type, he had swung away from that faith, and was in danger of rushing into Universalism, or
infidelity. That once famous and much-read little book, "John Nelson's Journal," fell into
his hands, and changed his whole life. It led him to Christ, and to the Methodists. He was
a true spiritual child of the unflinching Yorkshire stone-cutter. Like him he despised half-way
measures, and like him he was aggressive in thought and action. What he liked he loved, what
he disliked he hated. Calvinism he abhorred, and he let no occasion pass for pouring into it
the hot shot of his scorn and wrath. One night I preached from the text, Should it be according
to thy mind?

"The first part of your sermon," he said to me as we passed out of the church, "distressed
me greatly. For a full half hour you preached straight out Calvinism, and I thought you had
ruined every thing; but you had left a little slip-gap, and crawled out at the last."

His ideal of a minister of the gospel was Dr. Keener, whom he knew at New Orleans before coming
to California. He was the first man I ever heard mention Dr. Keener's name for the episcopacy.
There was much in common between them. If my eccentric California bachelor friend did not have
as strong and cool a head, he had as brave and true a heart as the incisive and chivalrous
Louisiana preacher, upon whose head the miter was placed by the suffrage of his brethren at
Memphis in 1870.

He became very active as a worker in the Church. I made him class-leader, and there have been
few in that office who brought to its sacred duties as much spiritual insight, candor, and
tenderness. At times his words flashed like diamonds, showing what the Bible can reveal to
a solitary thinker who makes it his chief study day and night. When needful, he could apply
caustic that burned to the very core of an error of opinion or of practice. He took a class
in the Sunday-school, and his freshness, acuteness, humor, and deep knowledge of the Scriptures,
made him far more than an ordinary teacher. A fine pocket Bible was offered as a prize to the
scholar who should, in three months, memorize the greatest number of Scripture verses. The
wisdom of such a contest is questionable to me now, but it was the fashion then, and I was
too young and self-distrustful to set myself against the current in such matters. The contest
was an exciting one--two boys, Robert A--and Jonathan R--, and one girl, Annie P--, leading
all the school. Jonathan suddenly fell behind, and was soon distanced by his two competitors.
Lowry, who was his teacher, asked him what was the reason of his sudden breakdown. The boy
blushed, and stammered out:

"I didn't want to beat Annie."

Robert won the prize, and the day came for its presentation. The house was full, and everybody
was in a pleasant mood. After the prize had been presented in due form and with a little flourish,
Lowry arose, and producing a costly Bible, in a few words telling how magnanimously and gallantly
Jonathan had retired from the contest, presented it to the pleased and blushing boy. The boys
and girls applauded California fashion, and the old man's face glowed with satisfaction. He
had in him curiously mingled the elements of the Puritan and the Cavalier--the uncompromising
persistency of the one, and the chivalrous impulse and openhandedness of the other.

The old man had too many crotchets and too much combativeness to be popular. He spared no opinion
or habit he did not like. He struck every angle within reach of him. In the state of society
then existing in the mines there were many things to vex his soul, and keep him on the warpath.
The miners looked upon him as a brave, good man, just a little daft. He worked a mining-claim
on Wood's Creek, north of town, and lived alone in a tiny cabin on the hill above. That was
the smallest of cabins, looking like a mere box from the trail which wound through the flat
below. Two little scrub-oaks stood near it, under which he sat and read his Bible in leisure
moments. There, above the world, he could commune with his own heart and with God undisturbed,
and look down upon a race he half pitied and half despised. From the spot the eye took in a
vast sweep of hill and dale: Bald Mountain, the most striking object in the near background,
and beyond its dark, rugged mass the snowy summits of the Sierras, rising one above another,
like gigantic stair-steps, leading up to the throne of the Eternal. This lonely height suited
Lowry's strangely compounded nature. As a cynic, he looked down with contempt upon the petty
life that seethed and frothed in the camps below; as a saint, he looked forth upon the wonders
of God's handiwork around and above him.

There was an intensity in all that he did. Passing his mining-claim on horseback one day, I
paused to look at him in his work. Clad in a blue flannel mining-suit, he was digging as for
life. The embankment of red dirt and gravel melted away rapidly before his vigorous strokes,
and he seemed to feel a sort of fierce delight in his work. Pausing a moment, he looked up
and saw me.

"You dig as if you were in a hurry," I said.

"Yes, I have been digging here three years. I have a notion that I have just so much of the
earth to turn over before I am turned under," he replied with a sort of grim humor.

He was still there when we visited Sonora in 1857. He invited us out to dinner, and we went.
By skillful circling around the hill, we reached the little cabin on the summit with horse
and buggy. The old man had made preparations for his expected guests. The floor of the cabin
had been swept, and its scanty store of furniture put to rights, and a dinner was cooking in
and on the little stove. His lady-guest insisted on helping in the preparation of the dinner,
but was allowed to do nothing further than to arrange the dishes on the primitive table, which
was set out under one of the little oaks in the yard. It was a miner's feast--can-fruits, can-vegetables,
can-oysters, can-pickles, can-every thing nearly, with tea distilled from the Asiatic leaf
by a receipt of his own. It was a hot day, and from the cloudless heavens the sun flooded the
earth with his glory, and the shimmer of the sunshine was in the still air. We tried to be
cheerful, but there was a pathos about the affair that touched us. He felt it too. More than
once there was a tear in his eye. At parting, he kissed little Paul, and gave us his hand in
silence. As we drove down the hill, he stood gazing after us with a look fixed and sad. The
picture is till before me the lonely old man standing sad and silent, the little cabin, the
rude dinner-service under the oak, and the overarching sky. That was our last meeting. The
next will be on the Other Side.

Suicide in California.

A half protest rises within me as I begin this Sketch. The page almost turns crimson under
my gaze, and shadowy forms come forth out of the darkness into which they wildly plunged out
of life's misery into death's mystery. Ghostly lips cry out, "Leave us alone! Why call us back
to a world where we lost all, and in quitting which we risked all? Disturb us not to gratify
the cold curiosity of unfeeling strangers. We have passed on beyond human jurisdiction to the
realities we dared to meet. Give us the pity and courtesy of your silence, O living brother,
who didst escape the wreck!" The appeal is not without effect, and if I lift the shroud that
covers the faces of these dead self-destroyed, it will be tenderly, pityingly. These simple
Sketches of real California life would be imperfect if this characteristic feature were entirely
omitted; for California was (and is yet) the land of suicides. In a single year there were
one hundred and six in San Francisco alone. The whole number of suicides in the State would,
if the horror of each case could be even imperfectly imagined, appall even the dryest statistician
of crime. The causes for this prevalence of self-destruction are to be sought in the peculiar
conditions of the country, and the habits of the people. California, with all its beauty, grandeur,
and riches, has been to the many who have gone thither a land of great expectations, but small
results. This was specially the case in the earlier period of its history, after the discovery
of gold and its settlement by "Americans," as we call ourselves, par excellence. Hurled from
the topmost height of extravagant hope to the lowest deep of disappointment, the shock is too
great for reaction; the rope, razor, bullet, or deadly drug, finishes the tragedy. Materialistic
infidelity in California is the avowed belief of multitudes, and its subtle poison infects
the minds and unconsciously the actions of thousands who recoil from the dark abyss that yawns
at the feet of its adherents with its fascination of horror. Under some circumstances, suicide
becomes logical to a man who has neither hope nor dread of a hereafter. Sins against the body,
and especially the nervous system, were prevalent; and days of pain, sleepless nights, and
weakened wills, were the precursors of the tragedy that promised change, if not rest. The devil
gets men inside a fiery circle, made by their own sin and folly, from which there seems to
be no escape but by death, and they will unbar its awful door with their own trembling hands.
There is another door of escape for the worst and most wretched, and it is opened to the penitent
by the hand that was nailed to the rugged cross. These crises do come, when the next step must
be death or life-penitence or perdition. Do sane men and women ever commit suicide? Yes--and,
No. Yes, in the sense that they sometimes do it with even pulse and steady nerves. No, in the
sense that there cannot be perfect soundness in the brain and heart of one who violates a primal
instinct of human nature. Each case has its own peculiar features, and must be left to the
all-seeing and all-pitying Father. Suicide, where it is not the greatest of crimes, is the
greatest of misfortunes. The righteous Judge will classify its victims.

A noted case in San Francisco was that of a French Catholic priest. He was young, brilliant,
and popular--beloved by his flock, and admired by a large circle outside. He had taken the
solemn vows of his order in all sincerity of purpose, and was distinguished as well for his
zeal in his pastoral work as for his genius. But temptation met him, and he fell. It came in
the shape in which it assailed the young Hebrew in Potiphar's house, and in which it overcame
the poet-king of Israel. He was seized with horror and remorse, though he had no accuser save
that voice within, which cannot be hushed while the soul lives. He ceased to perform the sacred
functions of his office, making some plausible pretext to his superiors, not daring to add
sacrilege to mortal sin. Shutting himself in his chamber, he brooded over his crime; or, no
longer able to endure the agony he felt, he would rush forth, and walk for hours over the sand-dunes,
or along the sea-beach. But no answer of peace followed his prayers, and the voices of nature
soothed him not. He thought his sin unpardonable--at least, he would not pardon himself. He
was found one morning lying dead in his bed in a pool of blood. He had severed the jugular-vein
with a razor, which was still clutched in his stiffened fingers. His handsome and classic face
bore no trace of pain. A sealed letter, lying on the table, contained his confession and his
farewell.

Among the lawyers in one of the largest mining towns of California was H. B--. He was a native
of Virginia, and an alumnus of its noble University. He was a scholar, a fine lawyer, handsome
and manly in person and bearing, and had the gift of popularity. Though the youngest lawyer
in the town, he took a front place at the bar at once. Over the heads of several older aspirants,
he was elected county judge. There was no ebb in the tide of his general popularity, and he
had qualities that won the warmest regard of his inner circle of special friends. But in this
case, as in many others, success had its danger. Hard drinking was the rule in those days.
Horace B--had been one of the rare exceptions. There was a reason for this extra prudence.
He had that peculiar susceptibility to alcoholic excitement which has been the ruin of so many
gifted and noble men. He knew his weakness, and it is strange that he did not continue to guard
against the danger that he so well understood. Strange? No; this infatuation is so common in
everyday life that we cannot call it strange. There is some sort of fatal fascination that
draws men with their eyes wide open into the very jaws of this hell of strong drink. The most
brilliant physician in San Francisco, in the prime of his magnificent young manhood, died of
delirium tremens, the victim of a self-inflicted disease, whose horrors no one knew or could
picture so well as himself. Who says man is not a fallen, broken creature, and that there is
not a devil at hand to tempt him? This devil, under the guise of sociability, false pride,
or moral cowardice, tempted Horace B--, and he yielded. Like tinder touched by flame, he blazed
into drunkenness, and again and again the proud-spirited, manly, and cultured young lawyer
and jurist was seen staggering along the streets, maudlin or mad with alcohol. When he had
slept off his madness, his humiliation was intense, and he walked the streets with pallid face
and downcast eyes. The coarser-grained men with whom he was thrown in contact had no conception
of the mental tortures he suffered, and their rude jests stung him to the quick. He despised
himself as a weakling and a coward, but he did not get more than a transient victory over his
enemy. The spark had struck a sensitive organization, and the fire of hell, smothered for the
time, would blaze out again. He was fast becoming a common drunkard, the accursed appetite
growing stronger, and his will weakening in accordance with that terrible law by which man's
physical and moral nature visits retribution on all who cross its path. During a term of the
court over which he presided, he was taken home one night drunk. A pistol-shot was heard by
persons in the vicinity some time before daybreak; but pistol-shots, at all hours of the night,
were then too common to excite special attention. Horace B--was found next morning lying on
the floor with a bullet through his head. Many a stout, heavy-bearded man had, wet eyes when
the body of the ill-fated and brilliant young Virginian was let down into the grave, which
had been dug for him on the hill overlooking the town from the south-east.

In the same town there was a portrait-painter, a quiet, pleasant fellow, with a good face and
easy, gentlemanly ways. As an artist, he was not without merit, but his gift fell short of
genius. He fell in love with a charming girl, the eldest daughter of a leading citizen. She
could not return his passion. The enamored artist still loved, and hoped against hope, lingering
near her like a moth around a candle. There was another and more favored suitor in the case,
and the rejected lover had all his hopes killed at one blow by her marriage to his rival. He
felt that without her life was not worth living. He resolved to kill himself, and swallowed
the contents of a two-ounce bottle of laudanum. After he had done the rash deed, a reaction
took place. He told what he had done, and a physician was sent for. Before the doctor's arrival,
the deadly drug asserted its power, and this repentant suicide began to show signs of going
into a sleep from which it was certain he would never awake.

"My God! What have I done?" he exclaimed in horror. "Do your best, boys, to keep me from going
to sleep before the doctor gets here."

The doctor came quickly, and by the prompt and very vigorous use of the stomach-pump he was
saved. I was sent for, and found the would-be suicide looking very weak, sick, silly, and sheepish.
He got well, and went on making pictures; but the picture of the fair, sweet girl, for love
of whom he came so near dying, never faded from his mind. His face always wore a sad look,
and he lived the life of a recluse, but he never attempted suicide again--he had had enough
of that.

"It always makes me shudder to look at that place," said a lady, as we passed an elegant cottage
on the western side of Russian Hill, San Francisco.

"Why so? The place to me looks specially cheerful and attractive, with its graceful slope,
its shrubbery, flowers, and thick greensward."

"Yes, it is a lovely place, but it has a history that it shocks me to think of. Do you see
that tall pumping-apparatus, with water-tank on top, in the rear of the house?"

"Yes; what of it?"

"A woman hanged herself there a year ago. The family consisted of the husband and wife, and
two bright, beautiful children. He was thrifty and prosperous, she was an excellent housekeeper,
and the children were healthy and well-behaved. In appearance a happier family could not be
found on the hill. One day Mr. P--came home at the usual hour, and, missing the wife's customary
greeting, he asked the children where she was. The children had not seen their mother for two
or three hours, and looked startled when they found she was missing. Messengers were sent to
the nearest neighbors to make inquiries, but no one had seen her. Mr. P ----'s face began to
wear a troubled look as he walked the floor, from time to time going to the door and casting
anxious glances about the premises.

"About dusk a sudden shriek was heard, issuing from the water-tank in the yard, and the Irish
servant-girl came rushing from it, with eyes distended and face pale with terror.

"Holy Mother of God! It's the Missus that's hanged herself!"

The alarm spread, and soon a crowd, curious and sympathetic, had collected. They found the
poor lady suspended by the neck from a beam at the head of the staircase leading to the top
of the inclosure. She was quite dead, and a horrible sight to see. At the inquest no facts
were developed throwing any light on the tragedy. There had been no cloud in the sky portending
the lightning stroke that laid the happy little home in ruins. The husband testified that she
was as bright and happy the morning of the suicide as he had ever seen her, and had parted
with him at the door with the usual kiss. Every thing about the house that day bore the marks
of her deft and skillful touch. The two children were dressed with accustomed neatness and,
good taste. And yet the bolt was in the cloud, and it fell before the sun had set! What was
the mystery? Ever afterward I felt something of the feeling expressed by my lady friend when,
in passing, I looked upon the structure which had been the scene of this singular tragedy.

One of the most energetic business men living in one of the foothill towns, on the northern
edge of the Sacramento Valley, had a charming wife, whom he loved with a deep and tender devotion.
As in all true love-matches, the passion of youth had ripened into a yet stronger and purer
love with the lapse of years and participation in the joys and sorrows of wedded life. Their
union had been blessed with five children, all intelligent, sweet, and full of promise. It
was a very affectionate and happy household. Both parents possessed considerable literary taste
and culture, and the best books and current magazine literature were read, discussed, and enjoyed
in that quiet and elegant home amid the roses and evergreens. It was a little paradise in the
hills, where Love, the home-angel, brightened every room and blessed every heart. But trouble
came in the shape of business reverses; and the worried look and wakeful nights of the husband
told how heavy were the blows that had fallen upon this hard and willing worker. The course
of ruin in California was fearfully rapid in those days. When a man's financial supports began
to give way, they went with a crash. The movement downward was with a rush that gave no time
for putting on the brakes. You were at the bottom, a wreck, almost before you knew it. So it
was in this case. Every thing was swept away, a mountain of unpaid debts was piled up, credit
was gone, clamor of creditors deafened him, and the gaunt wolf of actual want looked in through
the door of the cottage upon the dear wife and little ones. Another shadow, and a yet darker
one, settled upon them. The unhappy man had been tampering with the delusion of spiritualism,
and his wife had been drawn with him into a partial belief in its vagaries. In their troubles
they sought the aid of the "familiar spirits" that peeped and muttered through speaking, writing,
and rapping mediums. This kept them in a state of morbid excitement that increased from day
to day until they were wrought up to a tension that verged on insanity. The lying spirits;
or the frenzy of his own heated brain, turned his thought to death as the only escape from want.

"I see our way out of these troubles, wife," he said one night, as they sat hand in hand in
the bedchamber, where the children were lying asleep. "We will all die together! This has been
revealed to me as the solution of all our difficulties. Yes, we will enter the beautiful spirit-world
together! This is freedom! It is only getting out of prison. Bright spirits beckon and call
us. I am ready."

There was a gleam of madness in his eyes, and, as he took a pistol from a bureau-drawer, an
answering gleam flashed forth from the eyes of the wife, as she said:

"Yes, love, we will all go together. I too am ready."

The sleeping children were breathing sweetly, unmindful of the horror that the devil was hatching.

"The children first, then you, and then me," he said, his eye kindling with increasing excitement.

He penciled a short note addressed to one of his old friends, asking him to attend to the burial
of the bodies, then they kissed each of the sleeping children, and then--but let the curtain
fall on the scene that followed. The seven were found next day lying dead, a bullet through
the brain of each, the murderer, by the side of the wife, still holding the weapon of death
in his hand, its muzzle against his right temple.

Other pictures of real life and death crowd upon, my mind, among them noble forms and faces
that were near and dear to me; but again I hear the appealing voices. The page before me is
wet with tears--I cannot see to write.

Father Fisher.

He came to California in 1855. The Pacific Conference was in session at Sacramento. It was
announced that the new preacher from Texas would preach at night. The boat was detained in
some way, and he just had time to reach the church, where a large and expectant congregation
were in waiting. Below medium height, plainly dressed, and with a sort of peculiar shuffling
movement as he went down the aisle, he attracted no special notice except for the profoundly
reverential manner that never left him anywhere. But the moment he faced his audience and spoke,
it was evident to them that a man of mark stood before them. They were magnetized at once,
and every eye was fixed upon the strong yet benignant face, the capacious blue eyes, the ample
forehead, and massive head, bald on top, with silver locks on either side. His tones in reading
the Scripture and the hymns were unspeakably solemn and very musical. The blazing fervor of
the prayer that followed was absolutely startling to some of the preachers, who had cooled
down under the depressing influence of the moral atmosphere of the country. It almost seemed
as if we could hear the rush of the pentecostal wind, and see the tongues of flame. The very
house seemed to be rocking on its foundations. By the time the prayer had ended, all were in
a glow, and ready for the sermon. The text I do not now call to mind, but the impression made
by the sermon remains. I had seen and heard preachers who glowed in the pulpit--this man burned.
His words poured forth in a molten flood, his face shone like a furnace heated from within,
his large blue eyes flashed with the lightning of impassioned sentiment, and anon swam in pathetic
appeal that no heart could resist. Body, brain, and spirit, all seemed to feel the mighty afflatus.
His very frame seemed to expand, and the little man who had gone into the pulpit with shuffling
step and downcast eyes was transfigured before us. When, with radiant face, upturned eyes,
an upward sweep of his arm, and trumpet-voice, he shouted, "Hallelujah to God!" the tide of
emotion broke over all barriers, the people rose to their feet, and the church reechoed with
their responsive hallelujahs. The new preacher from Texas that night gave some Californians
a new idea of evangelical eloquence, and took his place as a burning and a shining light among
the ministers of God on the Pacific Coast.

"He is the man we want for San Francisco!" exclaimed the impulsive B. T. Crouch, who had kindled
into a generous enthusiasm under that marvelous discourse.

He was sent to San Francisco. He was one of a company of preachers who have successively had
charge of the Southern Methodist Church in that wondrous city inside the Golden Gate--Boring,
Evans, Fisher, Fitzgerald, Gober, Brown, Bailey, Wood, Miller, Ball, Hoss, Chamberlin, Mahon,
Tuggle, Simmons, Henderson. There was an almost unlimited diversity of temperament, culture,
and gifts among these men; but they all had a similar experience in this, that San Francisco
gave them new revelations of human nature and of themselves. Some went away crippled and scarred,
some sad, some broken; but perhaps in the Great Day it may be found that for each and all there
was a hidden blessing in the heart-throes of a service that seemed to demand that they should
sow in bitter tears, and know no joyful reaping this side of the grave. O my brothers, who
have felt the fires of that furnace heated seven times hotter than usual, shall we not in the
resting-place beyond the river realize that these fires burned out of us the dross that we
did not know was in our souls? The bird that comes out of the tempest with broken wing may
henceforth take a lowlier flight, but will be safer because it ventures no more into the region
of storms.

Fisher did not succeed in San Francisco, because he could not get a hearing. A little handful
would meet him on Sunday mornings in one of the upper-rooms of the old City Hall, and listen
to sermons that sent them away in a religious glow, but he had no leverage for getting at the
masses. He was no adept in the methods by which the modern sensational preacher compels the
attention of the novelty-loving crowds in our cities. An evangelist in every fiber of his being,
he chafed under the limitations of his charge in San Francisco, and from time to time he would
make a dash into the country, where, at camp-meetings and on other special occasions, he preached
the gospel with a power that broke many a sinner's heart, and with a persuasiveness that brought
many a wanderer back to the Good Shepherd's fold. His bodily energy, like his religious zeal,
was unflagging. It seemed little less than a miracle that he could, day after day, make such
vast expenditure of nervous energy without exhaustion. He put all his strength into every sermon
and exhortation, whether addressed to admiring and weeping thousands at a great camp-meeting,
or to a dozen or less "standbys" at the Saturday-morning service of a quarterly-meeting.

He had his trials and crosses. Those who knew him intimately learned to expect his mightiest
pulpit efforts when the shadow on his face and the unconscious sigh showed that he was passing
through the waters and crying to God out of the depths. In such experiences, the strong man
is revealed and gathers new strength; the weak one goes under. But his strength was more than
mere natural force of will, it was the strength of a mighty faith in God--that unseen force
by which the saints work righteousness, subdue kingdoms, escape the violence of fire, and stop
the mouths of lions.

As a flame of fire, Fisher itinerated all over California and Oregon, kindling a blaze of revival
in almost every place he touched. He was mighty in the Scriptures, and seemed to know the Book
by heart. His was no rose-water theology. He believed in a hell, and pictured it in Bible language
with a vividness and awfulness that thrilled the stoutest sinner's heart; he believed in heaven,
and spoke of it in such a way that it seemed that with him faith had already changed to sight.
The gates of pearl, the crystal river, the shining ranks of the white-robed throngs, their
songs swelling as the sound of many waters, the holy love and rapture of the glorified hosts
of the redeemed, were made to pass in panoramic procession before the listening multitudes
until the heaven he pictured seemed to be a present reality. He lived in the atmosphere of
the supernatural; the spirit-world was to him most real.

"I have been out of the body," he said to me one day. The words were spoken softly, and his
countenance, always grave in its aspect, deepened in its solemnity of expression as he spoke.

"How was that?" I inquired.

"It was in Texas. I was returning from a quarterly-meeting where I had preached one Sunday
morning with great liberty and with unusual effect. The horses attached to my vehicle became
frightened, and ran away. They were wholly beyond control, plunging down the road at a fearful
speed, when, by a slight turn to one side, the wheel struck a large log. There was a concussion,
and then a blank. The next thing I knew I was floating in the air above the road. I saw every
thing as plainly as I see your face at this moment. There lay my body in the road, there lay
the log, and there were the trees, the fence, the fields, and every thing, perfectly natural.
My motion, which had been upward, was arrested, and as, poised in the air, I looked at my body
lying there in the road so still, I felt a strong desire to go back to it, and found myself
sinking toward it. The next thing I knew I was lying in the road where I had been thrown out,
with a number of friends about me, some holding up my head, others chafing my hands, or looking
on with pity or alarm. Yes, I was out of the body for a little, and I know there is a spirit-world."

His voice had sunk into a sort of whisper, and the tears were in his eyes. I was strangely
thrilled. Both of us were silent for a time, as if we heard the echoes of voices, and saw the
beckonings of shadowy hands from that Other World which sometimes seems so far away, and yet
is so near to each one of us.

Surely you heaven, where angels see God's face, Is not so distant as we deem From this low
earth. 'Tis but a little space, 'Tis but a veil the winds might blow aside; Yes, this all that
us of earth divide From the bright dwellings of the glorified, The land of which I dream.

But it was no dream to this man of mighty faith, the windows of whose soul opened at all times
Godward. To him immortality was a demonstrated fact, an experience. He had been out of the body.

Intensity was his dominating quality. He wrote verses, and whatever they may have lacked of
the subtle element that marks poetical genius, they were full of his ardent personality and
devotional abandon. He compounded medicines whose virtues, backed by his own unwavering faith,
wrought wondrous cures. On several occasions he accepted challenge to polemic battle, and his
opponents found in him a fearless warrior, whose onset was next to irresistible. In these discussions
it was no uncommon thing for his arguments to close with such bursts of spiritual power that
the doctrinal duel would end in a great religious excitement, bearing disputants and hearers
away on mighty tides of feeling that none could resist.

I saw in the Texas Christian Advocate an incident, related by Dr. F. A. Mood, that gives a
good idea of what Fisher's eloquence was when in full tide:

"About ten years ago," says Dr. M., "when the train from Houston, on the Central Railroad,
on one occasion reached Hempstead, it was peremptorily brought to a halt. There was a strike
among the employees of the road, on what was significantly called by the strikers 'The Death-warrant.'
The road, it seems, had required all of their employees to sign a paper renouncing all claims
to moneyed reparation in case of their bodily injury while in the service of the road. The
excitement incident to a strike was at its height at Hempstead when our train reached there.
The tracks were blocked with trains that had been stopped as they arrived from the different
branches of the road, and the employees were gathered about in groups, discussing the situation--the
passengers peering around with hopeless curiosity. When our train stopped, the conductor told
us that we would have to lie over all night, and many of the passengers left to find accommodations
in the hotels of the town. It was now night, when a man came into the car and exclaimed, 'The
strikers are tarring and feathering a poor wretch out here, who has taken sides with the road--come
out and see it!' Nearly every one in the car hastened out. I had risen, when a gentleman behind
me gently pulled my coat, and said to me, 'Sit down a moment.' He went on to say: 'I judge,
sir, you are a clergyman; and I advise you to remain here. You may be put to much inconvenience
by having to appear as a witness; in a mob of that sort, too, there is no telling what may
follow.' I thanked him, and resumed my seat. He then asked me to what denomination I belonged,
and upon my telling him I was a Methodist preacher, he asked eagerly and promptly if I had
ever met a Methodist preacher in Texas by the name of Fisher, describing accurately the appearance
of our glorified brother. Upon my telling him I knew him well, he proceeded to give the following
incident. I give it as nearly as I can in his own words. Said he:

"'I am a Californian, have practiced law for years in that State, and, at the time I allude
to, was district judge. I was holding court at [I cannot now recall the name of the town he
mentioned], and on Saturday was told that a Methodist camp-meeting was being held a few miles
from town. I determined to visit it, and reached the place of meeting in good time to hear
the great preacher of the occasion--Father Fisher. The meeting was held in a river canyon.
The rocks towered hundreds of feet on either side, rising over like an arch. Through the ample
space over which the rocks hung the river flowed, furnishing abundance of cool water, while
a pleasant breeze fanned a shaded spot. A great multitude had assembled--hundreds of very hard
cases, who had gathered there, like myself, for the mere novelty of the thing. I am not a religious
man --never have been thrown under religious influences. I respect religion, and respect its
teachers, but have been very little in contact with religious things. At the appointed time,
the preacher rose. He was small, with white hair combed back from his forehead, and he wore
a venerable beard. I do not know much about the Bible, and I cannot quote from his text, but
he preached on the Judgment. I tell you, sir, I have heard eloquence at the bar and on the
hustings, but I never heard such eloquence as that old preacher gave us that day. At the last,
when he described the multitudes calling on the rocks and mountains to fall on them, I instinctively
looked up to the arching rocks above me. Will you believe it, sir?--as I looked up, to my horror
I saw the walls of the canyon swaying as if they were coming together! Just then the preacher
called on all that needed mercy to kneel down. I recollect he said something like this: "'Every
knee shall bow, and every tongue shall confess;' and you might as well do it now as then."
The whole multitude fell on their knees--every one of them. Although I had never done so before,
I confess to you, sir, I got down on my knees. I did not want to be buried right then and there
by those rocks that seemed to be swaying to destroy me. The old man prayed for us; it was a
wonderful prayer! I want to see him once more; where will I be likely to find him?'

"When he had closed his narrative, I said to him: 'Judge, I hope you have bowed frequently
since that day.' 'Alas! no, sir,' he replied; 'not much; but depend upon it, Father Fisher
is a wonderful orator--he made me think that day that the walls of the canyon were falling.'"

He went back to Texas, the scene of his early labors and triumphs, to die. His evening sky
was not cloudless--he suffered much--but his sunset was calm and bright; his waking in the
Morning Land was glorious. If it was at that short period of silence spoken of in the Apocalypse,
we may be sure it was broken when Fisher went in.

Jack White.

The only thing white about him was his name. He was a Piute Indian, and Piutes are neither
white nor pretty. There is only one being in human shape uglier than a Piute "buck"--and that
is a Piute squaw. One I saw at the Sink of the Humboldt haunts me yet. Her hideous face, begrimed
with dirt and smeared with yellow paint, bleared and leering eyes, and horrid long, flapping
breasts--ugh! it was a sight to make one feel sick. A degraded woman is the saddest spectacle
on earth. Shakespeare knew what he was doing when he made the witches in Macbeth of the feminine
gender. But as you look at them you almost forget that these Piute hags are women--they seem
a cross between brute and devil. The unity of the human race is a fact which I accept; but
some of our brothers and sisters are far gone from original loveliness. If Eve could see these
Piute women, she would not be in a hurry to claim them as her daughters; and Adam would feel
like disowning some of his sons. As it appears to me, however, these repulsive savages furnish
an argument in support of two fundamental facts of Christianity. One fact is, God did indeed
make of one blood all the nations of the earth; the other is the fact of the fall and depravity
of the human race. This unspeakable ugliness of these Indians is owing to their evil living.
Dirty as they are, the little Indian children are not at all repulsive in expression. A boy
of ten years, who stood half-naked, shivering in the wind, with his bow and arrows, had well-shaped
features and a pleasant expression of countenance, with just a little of the look of animal
cunning that belongs to all wild tribes. The ugliness grows on these Indians fearfully fast
when it sets in. The brutalities of the lives they lead stamp themselves on their faces; and
no other animal on earth equals in ugliness the animal called man, when he is nothing but an
animal.

There was a mystery about Jack White's early life. He was born in the sagebrush desert beyond
the Sierras, and, like all Indian babies, doubtless had a hard time at the outset. A Christian's
pig or puppy is as well cared for as a Piute papoose. Jack was found in a deserted Indian camp
in the mountains. He had been left to die, and was taken charge of by the kind hearted John
M. White, who was then digging for gold in the Northern mines. He and his good Christian wife
had mercy on the little Indian boy that looked up at them so pitifully with his wondering black
eyes. At first he had the frightened and bewildered look of a captured wild creature, but he
soon began to be more at ease. He acquired the English language slowly, and never did lose
the peculiar accent of his tribe. The miners called him Jack White, not knowing any other name
for him.

Moving to the beautiful San Ramon Valley, not far from the Bay of San Francisco, the Whites
took Jack with them. They taught him the leading doctrines and facts of the Bible, and made
him useful in domestic service. He grew and thrived. Broad-shouldered, muscular, and straight
as an arrow, Jack was admired for his strength and agility by the white boys with whom he was
brought into contact. Though not quarrelsome, he had a steady courage that, backed by his great
strength, inspired respect and insured good treatment from them. Growing up amid these influences,
his features were softened into a civilized expression, and his tawny face was not unpleasing.
The heavy under-jaw and square forehead gave him an appearance of hardness which was greatly
relieved by the honest look out of his eyes, and the smile which now and then would slowly
creep over his face, like the movement of the shadow of a thin cloud on a calm day in summer.
An Indian smiles deliberately, and in a dignified way--at least Jack did.

I first knew Jack at Santa Rosa, of which beautiful town his patron, Mr. White, was then the
marshal. Jack came to my Sunday-school, and was taken into a class of about twenty boys taught
by myself. They were the noisy element of the school, ranging from ten to fifteen years of
age --too large to show the docility of the little lads, but not old enough to have attained
the self-command and self-respect that come later in life. Though he was much older than any
of them, and heavier than his teacher, this class suited Jack. The white boys all liked him,
and he liked me. We had grand times with that class. The only way to keep them in order was
to keep them very busy. The plan of having them answer in concert was adopted with decided
results. It kept them awake and the whole school with them, for California boys have strong
lungs. Twenty boys speaking all at once, with eager excitement and flashing eyes, waked the
drowsiest drone in the room. A gentle hint was given now and then to take a little lower key.
In these lessons, Jack's deep guttural tones came in with marked effect, and it was delightful
to see how he enjoyed it all. And the singing made his swarthy features glow with pleasure,
though he rarely joined in it, having some misgiving as to the melody of his voice.

The truths of the gospel took strong hold of Jack's mind, and his inquiries indicated a deep
interest in the matter of religion. I was therefore not surprised when, during a protracted-meeting
in the town, Jack became one of the converts; but there was surprise and delight among the
brethren at the class-meeting when Jack rose in his place and told what great thing the Lord
had done for him, dwelling with special emphasis on the words, "I am happy, because I know
Jesus takes my sins away--I know he takes my sins away." His voice melted into softness, and
a tear trickled down his cheek as he spoke; and when Dan Duncan, the leader, crossed over the
room and grasped his hand in a burst of joy, there was a glad chorus of rejoicing Methodists
over Jack White, the Piute convert.

Jack never missed a service at the church, and in the social-meetings he never failed to tell
the story of his newborn joy and hope, and always with thrilling effect, as he repeated with
trembling voice, "I am happy, because I know Jesus takes my sins away." Sin was a reality with
Jack, and the pardon of sin the most wonderful of all facts. He never tired of telling it;
it opened a new world to him, a world of light and joy. Jack White in the class-meeting or
prayer-meeting, with beaming face, and moistened eyes, and softened voice, telling of the love
of Jesus, seemed almost of a different race from the wretched Piutes of the Sierras and sagebrush.

Jack's baptism was a great event. It was by immersion, the first baptism of the kind I ever
performed--and almost the last. Jack had been talked to on the subject by some zealous brethren
of another "persuasion," who magnified that mode, and though he was willing to do as I advised
in the matter, he was evidently a little inclined to the more spectacular way of receiving
the ordinance. Mrs. White suggested that it might save future trouble, and "spike a gun." So
Jack, with four others, was taken down to Santa Rosa Creek, that went rippling and sparkling
along the southern edge of the town, and duly baptized in the name of the Father, and of the
Son, and of the Holy Ghost. A great crowd covered the bridge just below, and the banks of the
stream; and when Wesley Mock, the Asaph of Santa Rosa Methodism, struck up--

   O happy day that fixed my choice
   On thee, my Saviour and my God,

and the chorus--

   Happy day, happy day, when
   Jesus washed my sins away,

was swelled by hundreds of voices, it was a glad moment for Jack White and all of us. Religiously
it was a warm time; but the water was very cold, it being one of the chilliest days I ever
felt in that genial climate.

"You were rather awkward, Brother Fitzgerald, in immersing those persons," said my stalwart
friend, Elder John McCorkle, of the "Christian" or Campbellite Church, who had critically but
not unkindly watched the proceedings from the bridge. "If you will send for me the next time,
I will do it for you," he added, pleasantly.

I fear it was awkwardly done, for the water was very cold, and a shivering man cannot be very
graceful in his movements. I would have done better in a baptistery, with warm water and a
rubber suit. But of all the persons I have welcomed into the Church during my ministry, the
reception of no one has given use more joy than that of Jack White, the Piute Indian.

Jack's heart yearned for his own people. He wanted to tell them of Jesus, who could take away
their sins; and perhaps his Indian instinct made him long for the freedom of the hills.

"I am going to my people," he said to me; "I want to tell them of Jesus. You will pray for
me?" he added, with a quiver in his voice and a heaving chest.

He went away, and I have never seen him since. Where he is now, I know not. I trust I may meet
him on Mount Sion, with the harpers harping with their harps, and singing, as it were, a new
song before the throne.

Postscript.--Since this Sketch was penciled, the Rev. C. Y. Rankin, in a note dated Santa Rosa,
California, August 3, 1880, says: "Mrs. White asked me to send you word of the peaceful death
of Jack White (Indian). He died trusting in Jesus."

The Rabbi.

Seated in his library, enveloped in a faded figured gown, a black velvet cap on his massive
head, there was an Oriental look about him that arrested your attention at once. Power and
gentleness, childlike simplicity, and scholarliness, were curiously mingled in this man. His
library was a reflex of its owner. In it were books that the great public libraries of the
world could not match--black-letter folios that were almost as old as the printing art, illuminated
volumes that were once the pride and joy of men who had been in their graves many generations,
rabbinical lore, theology, magic, and great volumes of Hebrew literature that looked, when
placed beside a modern book, like an old ducal palace alongside a gingerbread cottage of today.
I do not think he ever felt at home amid the hurry and rush of San Francisco. He could not
adjust himself to the people. He was devout, and they were intensely worldly. He thundered
this sentence from the teacher's desk in the synagogue one morning: "O ye Jews of San Francisco,
you have so fully given yourselves up to material things that you are losing the very instinct
of immortality. Your only idea of religion is to acquire the Hebrew language, and you don't
know that!" His port and voice were like those of one of the old Hebrew prophets. Elijah himself
was not more fearless. Yet, how deep was his love for his race! Jeremiah was not more tender
when he wept for the slain of the daughter of his people. His reproofs were resented, and he
had a taste of persecution; but the Jews of San Francisco understood him at last. The poor
and the little children knew him from the start. He lived mostly among his books, and in his
school for poor children, whom he taught without charge. His habits were so simple and his
bodily wants so few that it cost him but a trifle to live. When the synagogue frowned on him,
he was as independent as Elijah at the brook Cherith. It is hard to starve a man to whom crackers
and water are a royal feast.

His belief in God and in the supernatural was startlingly vivid. The Voice that spoke from
Sinai was still audible to him, and the Arm that delivered Israel he saw still stretched out
over the nations. The miracles of the Old Testament were as real to him as the premiership
of Disraeli, or the financiering of the Rothschilds. There was, at the same time, a vein of
rationalism that ran through his thought and speech. We were speaking one day on the subject
of miracles, and, with his usual energy of manner, he said:

"There was no need of any literal angel to shut the mouths of the lions to save Daniel; the
awful holiness of the prophet was enough. There was so much of God in him that the savage creatures
submitted to him as they did to unsinning Adam. Man's dominion over nature was broken by sin,
but in the golden age to come it will be restored. A man in full communion with God wields
a divine power in every sphere that he touches."

His face glowed as he spoke, and his voice was subdued into a solemnity of tone that told how
his reverent and adoring soul was thrilled with this vision of the coming glory of redeemed
humanity.

He knew the New Testament by heart, as well as the Old. The sayings of Jesus were often on
his lips.

One day, in a musing, half-soliloquizing way, I heard him say:

"It is wonderful, wonderful! a Hebrew peasant from the hills of Galilee, without learning,
noble birth, or power, subverts all the philosophies of the world, and makes himself the central
figure of all history. It is wonderful!"

He half whispered the words, and his eyes had the introspective look of a man who is thinking
deeply.

He came to see me at our cottage on Post street one morning before breakfast. In grading a
street, a house in which I had lived and had the ill luck to own, on Pine street, had been
undermined, and toppled over into the street below, falling on the slate-roof and breaking
all to pieces. He came to tell me of it, and to extend his sympathy.

"I thought I would come first, so you might get the bad news from a friend rather than a stranger.
You have lost a house; but it is a small matter. Your little boy there might have put out his
eye with a pair of scissors, or he might have swallowed a pin and lost his life. There are
many things constantly taking place that are harder to bear than the loss of a house."

Many other wise words did the Rabbi speak, and before he left I felt that a house was indeed
a small thing to grieve over.

He spoke with charming freedom and candor of all sorts of people.

"Of Christians, the Unitarians have the best heads, and the Methodists the best hearts. The
Roman Catholics hold the masses, because they give their people plenty of form. The masses
will never receive truth in its simple essence; they must have it in a way that will make it
digestible and assimilable, just as their, stomachs demand bread, and meats, and fruits, not
their extracts or distilled essences, for daily food. As to Judaism, it is on the eve of great
changes. What these changes will be I know not, except that I am sure the God of our fathers
will fulfill his promise to Israel. This generation will probably see great things."

"Do you mean the literal restoration of the Jews to Palestine?"

He looked at me with an intense gaze, and hastened not to answer. At last he spoke slowly:

"When the perturbed elements of religious thought crystallize into clearness and enduring forms,
the chosen people will be one of the chief factors in reaching that final solution of the problems
which convulse this age."

He was one of the speakers at the great Mortara indignation-meeting in San Francisco. The speech
of the occasion was that of Colonel Baker, the orator who went to Oregon, and in a single campaign
magnetized the Oregonians so completely by his splendid eloquence that, passing by all their
old party leaders, they sent him to the United States Senate. No one who heard Baker's peroration
that night will ever forget it. His dark eyes blazed, his form dilated, and his voice was like
a bugle in battle.

"They tell us that the Jew is accursed of God. This has been the plea of the bloody tyrants
and robbers that oppressed and plundered them during the long ages of their exile and agony.
But the Almighty God executes his own judgments. Woe to him who presumes to wield his thunderbolts!
They fall in blasting, consuming vengeance upon his own head. God deals with his chosen people
in judgment; but he says to men, Touch them at your peril! They that spoil them shall be for
a spoil; they that carried them away captive shall themselves go into captivity. The Assyrian
smote the Jew, and where is the proud Assyrian Empire? Rome ground them under her iron heel,
and where is the empire of the Caesars? Spain smote the Jew, and where is her glory? The desert
sands cover the site of Babylon the Great. The power that hurled the hosts of Titus against
the holy city Jerusalem was shivered to pieces. The banners of Spain, that floated in triumph
over half the world, and fluttered in the breezes of every sea, is now the emblem of a glory
that is gone, and the ensign of a power that has waned. The Jews are in the hands of God. He
has dealt with them in judgment, but they are still the children of promise. The day of their
long exile shall end, and they will return to Zion with songs and everlasting joy upon their
heads!"

The words were something like these, but who could picture Baker's oratory? As well try to
paint a storm in the tropics. Real thunder and lightning cannot be put on canvas.

The Rabbi made a speech, and it was the speech of a man who had come from his books and prayers.
He made a tender appeal for the mother and father of the abducted Jewish boy, and argued the
question as calmly, and in as sweet a spirit, as if he had been talking over an abstract question
in his study. The vast crowd looked upon that strange figure with a sort of pleased wonder,
and the Rabbi seemed almost unconscious of their presence. He was as free from self-consciousness
as a little child, and many a Gentile heart warmed that night to the simple-hearted sage who
stood before them pleading for the rights of human nature.

The old man was often very sad. In such moods he would come round to our cottage on Post street,
and sit with us until late at night, unburdening his aching heart, and relaxing by degrees
into a playfulness that was charming from its very awkwardness. He would bring little picture-books
for the children, pat them on their heads, and praise them. They were always glad to see him,
and would nestle round him lovingly. We all loved him, and felt glad in the thought that he
left our little circle lighter at heart. He lived alone. Once, when I playfully spoke to him
of matrimony, he laughed quietly, and said:

"No, no--my books and my poor schoolchildren are enough for me."

He died suddenly and alone. He had been out one windy night visiting the poor, came home sick,
and before morning was in that world of spirits which was so real to his faith, and for which
he longed. He left his little fortune of a few thousand dollars to the poor of his native village
of Posen, in Poland. And thus passed from California-life Dr. Julius Eckman, the Rabbi.

My Mining Speculation.

"I Believe the Lord has put me in the way of making a competency for my old age," said the
dear old Doctor, as he seated himself in the armchair reserved for him at the cottage at North
Beach.

"How?" I asked.

"I met a Texas man today, who told me of the discovery of an immensely rich silver mining district
in Deep Spring Valley, Mono county, and he says he can get me in as one of the owners."

I laughingly made some remark expressive of incredulity. The honest and benignant face of the
old Doctor showed that he was a little nettled.

"I have made full inquiry, and am sure this is no mere speculation. The stock will not be put
upon the market, and will not be assessable. They propose to make me a trustee, and the owners,
limited in number, will have entire control of the property. But I will not he hasty in the
matter. I will make it a subject of prayer for twenty-four hours, and then if there be no adverse
indications I will go on with it."

The next day I met the broad-faced Texan, and was impressed by him as the old Doctor had been.

It seemed a sure thing. An old prospector had been equipped and sent out by a few gentlemen,
and he had found outcroppings of silver in a range of hills extending not less than three miles.
Assays had been made of the ores, and they were found to be very rich. All the timber and waterpower
of Deep Spring Valley had been taken up for the company under the general and local preemption
and mining laws. It was a big thing. The beauty of the whole arrangement was that no "mining
sharps" were to be let in; we were to manage it ourselves, and reap all the profits.

We went into it, the old Doctor and I, feeling deeply grateful to the broad-faced Texan, who
had so kindly given us the chance. I was made a trustee, and began to have a decidedly business
feeling as such. At the meetings of "the board," my opinions were frequently called for, and
were given with great gravity. The money was paid for the shares I had taken, and the precious
evidences of ownership were carefully put in a place of safety. A mill was built near the richest
of the claims, and the assays were good. There were delays, and more money was called for,
and sent up. The assays were still good, and the reports from our superintendent were glowing.
"The biggest thing in the history of California mining," he wrote; and when the secretary read
his letter to the board, there was a happy expression on each face.

At this point I began to be troubled. It seemed, from reasonable ciphering, that I should soon
be a millionaire. It made me feel solemn and anxious. I lay awake at night, praying that I
might not be spoiled by my good fortune. The scriptures that speak of the deceitfulness of
riches were called to mind, and I rejoiced with trembling. Many beneficent enterprises were
planned, principally in the line of endowing colleges, and paying church-debts. (I had had
an experience in this line.) There were further delays, and more money was called for. The
ores were rebellious, and our "process" did not suit them. Fryborg and Deep Spring Valley were
not the same. A new superintendent--one that understood rebellious ores--was employed at a
higher salary. He reported that all was right, and that we might expect "big news" in a few
days, as he proposed to crush about seventy tons of the best rock, "by a new and improved process."

The board held frequent meetings, and in view of the nearness of great results did not hesitate
to meet the requisitions made for further outlays of money. They resolved to pursue a prudent
but vigorous policy in developing the vast property when the mill should be fairly in operation.

All this time I felt an undercurrent of anxiety lest I might sustain spiritual loss by my sudden
accession to great wealth, and continued to fortify myself with good resolutions.

As a matter of special caution, I sent for a parcel of the ore, and had a private assay made
of it. The assay was good.

The new superintendent notified us that on a certain date we might look for a report of the
result of the first great crushing and cleanup of the seventy tons of rock. The day came. On
Kearny street I met one of the stockholders--a careful Presbyterian brother, who loved money.
He had a solemn look, and was walking slowly, as if in deep thought. Lifting his eyes as we
met, he saw me, and spoke:

"It is lead!"

"What is lead?"

"Our silver mine in Deep Spring Valley."

Yes; from the seventy tons of rock we got eleven dollars in silver, and about fifty pounds
of as good lead as was ever molded into bullets.

The board held a meeting the next evening. It was a solemn one. The fifty-pound bar of lead
was placed in the midst, and was eyed reproachfully. I resigned my trusteeship, and they saw
me not again. That was my first and last mining speculation. It failed somehow--but the assays
were all very good.

Mike Reese.

I had business with him, and went at a business hour. No introduction was needed, for he had
been my landlord, and no tenant of his ever had reason to complain that he did not get a visit
from him, in person or by proxy, at least once a month. He was a punctual man--as a collector
of what was due him. Seeing that he was intently engaged, I paused and looked at him. A man
of huge frame, with enormous hands and feet, massive head, receding forehead, and heavy cerebral
development, full sensual lips, large nose, and peculiar eyes that seemed at the same time
to look through you and to shrink from your gaze--he was a man at whom a stranger would stop
in the street to get a second gaze. There he sat at his desk, too much absorbed to notice my
entrance. Before him lay a large pile of one-thousand-dollar United States Government bonds,
and he was clipping off the coupons. That face! it was a study as he sat using the big pair
of scissors. A hungry boy in the act of taking into his mouth a ripe cherry, a mother gazing
down into the face of her pretty sleeping child, a lover looking into the eyes of his charmer,
are but faint figures by which to express the intense pleasure he felt in his work. But there
was also a feline element in his joy--his handling of those bonds was somewhat like a cat toying
with its prey. When at length he raised his head, there was a fierce gleam in his eye and a
flush in his face. I had come upon a devotee engaged in worship. This was Mike Reese, the miser
and millionaire. Placing his huge left-hand on the pile of bonds, he gruffly returned my salutation,

"Good morning."

He turned as he spoke, and east a look of scrutiny into my face which said plain enough that
he wanted me to make known my business with him at once.

I told him what was wanted. At the request of the official board of the Minna-street Church
I had come to ask him to make a contribution toward the payment of its debt.

"O yes; I was expecting you. They all come to me. Father Gallagher, of the Catholic Church,
Dr. Wyatt, of the Episcopal Church, and all the others, have been here. I feel friendly to
the Churches, and I treat all alike--it won't do for me to be partial--I don't give to any!"

That last clause was an anticlimax, dashing my hopes rudely; but I saw he meant it, and left.
I never heard of his departing from the rule of strict impartiality he had laid down for himself.

We met at times at a restaurant on Clay street. He was a hearty feeder, and it was amusing
to see how skillfully in the choice of dishes and the thoroughness with which he emptied them
he could combine economy with plenty. On several of these occasions, when we chanced to sit
at the same table, I proposed to pay for both of us, and he quickly assented, his hard, heavy
features lighting up with undisguised pleasure at the suggestion, as he shambled out of the
room amid the smiles of the company present, most of whom knew him as a millionaire, and me
as a Methodist preacher.

He had one affair of the heart. Cupid played a prank on him that was the occasion of much merriment
in the San Francisco newspapers, and of much grief to him. A widow was his enslaver and tormentor--the
old story. She sued him for breach of promise of marriage. The trial made great fun for the
lawyers, reporters, and the amused public generally; but it was no fun for him. He was mulcted
for six thousand dollars and costs of the suit. It was during the time I was renting one of
his offices on Washington street. I called to see him, wishing to have some repairs made. His
clerk met me in the narrow hall, and there was a mischievous twinkle in his eye as he said:

"You had better come another day--the old man has just paid that judgment in the breach of
promise case, and he is in a bad way."

Hearing our voices, he said,

"Who is there?--come in."

I went in, and found him sitting leaning on his desk, the picture of intense wretchedness.
He was all unstrung, his jaw fallen, and a most pitiful face met mine as he looked up and said,
in a broken voice,

"Come some other day--I can do no business today; I am very unwell."

He was indeed sick--sick at heart. I felt sorry for him. Pain always excites my pity, no matter
what may be its cause. He was a miser, and the payment of those thousands  of dollars was like
tearing him asunder. He did not mind the jibes of the newspapers, but the loss of the money
was almost killing. He had not set his heart on popularity, but cash.

He had another special trouble, but with a different sort of ending. It was discovered by a
neighbor of his that, by some mismeasurement of the surveyors, he (Reese) had built the wall
of one of his immense business houses on Front street six inches beyond his own proper line,
taking in just so much of that neighbor's lot. Not being on friendly terms with Reese, his
neighbor made a peremptory demand for the removal of the wall, or the payment of a heavy price
for the ground. Here was misery for the miser. He writhed in mental agony, and begged for easier
terms, but in vain. His neighbor would not relent. The business men of the vicinity rather
enjoyed the situation, humorously watching the progress of the affair. It was a case of diamond
cut diamond, both parties bearing the reputation of being hard men to deal with. A day was
fixed for Reese to give a definite answer to his neighbor's demand, with notice that, in case
of his noncompliance, suit against him would be begun at once. The day came, and with it a
remarkable change in Reese's tone. He sent a short note to his enemy breathing profanity and
defiance.

"What is the matter?" mused the puzzled citizen; "Reese has made some discovery that makes
him think he has the upper-hand, else he would not talk this way."

And he sat and thought. The instinct of this class of men where money is involved is like a
miracle.

"I have it!" he suddenly exclaimed; "Reese has the same hold on me that I have on him."

Reese happened to be the owner of another lot adjoining that of his enemy, on the other side.
It occurred to him that, as all these lots were surveyed at the same time by the same party,
it was most likely that as his line had gone six inches too far on the one side, his enemy's
had gone as much too far on the other. And so it was. He had quietly a survey made of the premises,
and he chuckled with inward joy to find that he held this winning card in the unfriendly game.
With grim politeness the neighbors exchanged deeds for the two half feet of ground, and their
war ended. The moral of this incident is for him who hath wit enough to see it.

For several seasons he came every morning to North Beach to take sea-baths. Sometimes he rode
his well-known white horse, but oftener he walked. He bathed in the open sea, making, as one
expressed it, twenty-five tents out of the Pacific Ocean, by avoiding the bathhouse. Was this
the charm that drew him forth so early? It not seldom chanced that we walked downtown together.
At times he was quite communicative, speaking of himself in a way that was peculiar. It seems
he had thoughts of marrying before his episode with the widow.

"Do you think a young girl of twenty could love an old man like me?" he asked me one day, as
we were walking along the street.

I looked at his huge and ungainly bulk, and into his animal face, and made no direct answer.
Love! Six millions of dollars is a great sum. Money may buy youth and beauty, but love does
not come at its call. God's highest gifts are free; only the second-rate things can be bought
with money. Did this sordid old man yearn for pure human love amid his millions? Did such a
dream cast a momentary glamour over a life spent in raking among the muck-heaps? If so, it
passed away, for he never married.

He understood his own case. He knew in what estimation he was held by the public, and did not
conceal his scorn for its opinion.

"My love of money is a disease. My saving and hoarding as I do is irrational, and I know it.
It pains me to pay five cents for a streetcar ride, or a quarter of a dollar for a dinner.
My pleasure in accumulating property is morbid, but I have felt it from the time I was a foot
peddler in Charlotte, Campbell, and Pittsylvania counties, in Virginia, until now. It is a
sort of insanity, and it is incurable; but it is about as good a form of madness as any, and
all the world is mad in some, fashion."

This was the substance of what he said of himself when in one of his moods of free speech,
and it gave me a new idea of human nature--a man whose keen and penetrating brain could subject
his own consciousness to a cool and correct analysis, seeing clearly the folly which he could
not resist. The autobiography of such a man might furnish a curious psychological study, and
explain the formation and development in society of those moral monsters called misers. Nowhere
in literature has such a character been fully portrayed, though Shakespeare and George Eliot
have given vivid touches of some of its features.

He always retained a kind feeling for the South, over whose hills he had borne his peddler's
pack when a youth. After the war, two young ex-Confederate soldiers came to San Francisco to
seek their fortunes. A small room adjoining my office was vacant, and the brothers requested
me to secure it for them as cheap as possible. I applied to Reese, telling him who the young
men were, and describing their broken and impecunious condition.

"Tell them to take the room free of rent--but it ought to bring five dollars a month."

It took a mighty effort, and he sighed as he spoke the words. I never heard of his acting similarly
in any other case, and I put this down to his credit, glad to know that there was a warm spot
in that mountain of mud and ice. A report of this generous act got afloat in the city, and
many were the inquiries I received as to its truth. There was general incredulity.

His health failed, and he crossed the seas. Perhaps he wished to visit his native hills in
Germany, which he had last seen when a child. There he died, leaving all his millions to his
kindred, save a bequest of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars to the University of California.
What were his last thoughts, what was his final verdict concerning human life, I know not.
Empty-handed he entered the world of spirits, where, the film fallen from his vision, he saw
the Eternal Realities. What amazement must have followed his awakening!

Uncle Nolan.

He was black and ugly; but it was an ugliness that did not disgust or repel you. His face had
a touch both of the comic and the pathetic. His mouth was very wide, his lips very thick and
the color of a ripe damson, blue-black; his nose made up in width what it lacked in elevation;
his ears were big, and bent forward; his eyes were a dull white, on a very dark ground; his
wool was white and thick. His age might be anywhere along from seventy onward. A black man's
age, like that of a horse, becomes dubious after reaching a certain stage.

He came to the class-meeting in the Pine-street Church, in San Francisco, one Sabbath morning.
He asked leave to speak, which was granted.

"Bredren, I come here sometime ago, from Vicksburg, Mississippi, where I has lived forty year,
or more. I heered dar was a culud church up on de hill, an' I thought I'd go an' washup wid'em.
I went dar three or fo' Sundays, but I foun' deir ways didn't suit me, an' my ways didn't suit
dem. Dey was Yankees' niggers, an' [proudly] I's a Southern man myself. Sumbody tole me dar
was a Southern Church down here on Pine street, an' I thought I'd cum an' look in. Soon 's
I got inside de church, an' look roun' a minit, I feels at home. Dey look like home-folks;
de preacher preach like home-folks; de people sing like home-folks. Yer see, chillan, I'se
a Southern man myself [emphatically], and I'se a Southern Methodis'. Dis is de Church I was
borned in, an' dis is de Church I was rarred in, an' [with great energy] dis is de Church which
de Scripter says de gates ob hell shall not prevail ag'in it! ["Amen!" from Father Newman and
others.] When dey heerd I was comin' to dis Church, some ob 'em got arter me 'bout it. Dey
say dis Church was a enemy to de black people, and dat dey was in favor ob slavery. I tole
'em de Scripter said, 'Love your enemies,' an' den I took de Bible an' read what it says about
slavery--I can read some, chillun Servants, obey yer masters in all things, not wid eye-service,
as men-pleasers, but as unto de Lord;' and so on. But, bless yer souls, chillun, dey wouldn't
lis'en to dat --so I foun' out dey was abberlishem niggers, an' I lef' 'em.!"

Yes, he left them, and came to us. I received him into the Church in due form, and with no
little eclat, he being the only son of Ham on our roll of members in San Francisco. He stood
firm to his Southern Methodist colors under a great pressure.

"Yer ought ter be killed fer goin' ter dat Southern Church," said one of his colored acquaintances
one day, as they met in the street.

"Kill me, den," said Uncle Nolan, with proud humility; "kill me, den; yer can't cheat me out
ob many days, nohow."

He made a living, and something over, by rag-picking at North Beach and elsewhere, until the
Chinese entered into competition with him, and then it was hard times for Uncle Nolan. His
eyesight partially failed him, and it was pitiful to see him on the beach, his threadbare garments
fluttering in the wind, groping amid the rubbish for rags, or shuffling along the streets with
a huge sack on his back, and his old felt hat tied under his nose with a string, picking his
way carefully to spare his swollen feet, which were tied up with bagging and woolens. His religious
fervor never cooled; I never heard him complain. He never ceased to be joyously thankful for
two things--his freedom and his religion. But, strange as it may seem, he was a pro-slavery
man to the last. Even after the war, he stood to his opinion.

"Dem niggers in de South thinks dey is free, but dey ain't. 'Fore it's all ober, all dat ain't
dead will be glad to git back to deir masters," he would say.

Yet he was very proud of his own freedom, and took the utmost care of his free-papers. He had
no desire to resume his former relation to the peculiar and patriarchal institution. He was
not the first philosopher who has had one theory for his fellows, and another for himself.

Uncle Nolan would talk of religion by the hour. He never tired of that theme. His faith was
simple and strong, but, like most of his race, he had a tinge of superstition. He was a dreamer
of dreams, and he believed in them. Here is one which he recited to me. His weird manner, and
low, chanting tone, I must leave to the imagination of the reader:

Uncle Nolan's Dream.

A tall black man came along, an' took me by de arm, an' tole me he had come for me. I said:

"What yer want wid me?"

"I come to carry yer down into de darkness."

"What for?"

"Cause you didn't follow de Lord."

Wid dat, he pulled me 'long de street till he come to a big black house, de biggest house an'
de thickest walls I eber seed. We went in a little do', an' den he took me down a long sta'rs
in de dark, till we come to a big do'; we went inside, an' den de big black man locked de do'
behin' us. An' so we kep' on, goin' down, an' goin' down, an' goin' down, an' he kep' lockin'
dem big iron do's behin' us, an' all de time it was pitch dark, so I couldn't see him, but
he still hel' on ter me. At las' we stopped, an' den he started to go 'way. He locked de do'
behin' him, an' I heerd him goin' up de steps de way we come, lockin' all de do's behin' him
as he went. I tell you, dat was dreafful when I heerd dat big key turn on de outside, an' me
'way down, down, down dar in de dark all alone, an' no chance eber to git out! An' I knowed
it was 'cause I didn't foller de Lord. I felt roun' de place, an' dar was nothin' but de thick
walls an' de great iron do'. Den I sot down an' cried, 'cause I knowed I was a los' man. Dat
was de same as hell [his voice sinking into a whisper], an' all de time I knowed I was dar,
'cause I hadn't follered de Lord. Bymeby somethin' say, "Pray." Somethin' keep sayin', "Pray."
Den I drap on my knees an' prayed. I tell you, no man eber prayed harder 'n I did! I prayed,
an' prayed, an' prayed! What's dat? Dar's somebody a-comin' down dem steps; dey 's unlockin'
de do'; an' de fus' thing I knowed, de place was all lighted up bright as day, an' a white-faced
man stood by me, wid a crown on his head, an' a golden key in his han'. Somehow, I knowed it
was Jesus, an' right den I waked up all of a tremble, an' knowed it was a warnin' dat I mus'
foller de Lord. An', bless Jesus, I has been follerin' him fifty year since I had dat dream.

In his prayers, and class-meeting and love-feast talks, Uncle Nolan showed a depth of spiritual
insight truly wonderful, and the effects of these talks were frequently electrical. Many a
time have I seen the Pine-street brethren and sisters rise from their knees, at the close of
one of his prayers, melted into tears, or thrilled to religious rapture, by the power of his
simple faith, and the vividness of his sanctified imagination.

He held to his pro-slavery views and guarded his own freedom-papers to the last; and when he
died, in 1875, the last colored Southern Methodist in California was transferred from the Church
militant to the great company that no man can number, gathered out of every nation, and tribe,
and kindred, on the earth.

Buffalo Jones.

That is what the boys called him. His real Christian name was Zachariah. The way he got the
name he went by was this: He was a Methodist, and prayed in public. He was excitable, and his
lungs were of extraordinary power. When fully aroused, his voice sounded, it was said, like
the bellowing of a whole herd of buffaloes. It had peculiar reverberations --rumbling, roaring,
shaking the very roof of the sanctuary, or echoing among the hills when let out at its utmost
strength at a camp-meeting. This is why they called him Buffalo Jones. It was his voice. There
never was such another. In Ohio he was a blacksmith and a fighting man. He had whipped every
man who would fight him, in a whole tier of counties. He was converted after the old way; that
is to say, he was "powerfully" converted. A circuit-rider preached the sermon that converted
him. His anguish was awful. The midnight hour found him in tears. The Ohio forest resounded
with his cries for mercy. When he found peace, it swelled into rapture. He joined the Church
militant among the Methodists, and he stuck to them, quarreled with them, and loved them, all
his life. He had many troubles, and gave much trouble to many people. The old Adam died hard
in the fighting blacksmith. His pastor, his family, his friends, his fellow-members in the
Church, all got a portion of his wrath in due season, if they swerved a hair-breadth from the
straight-line of duty as he saw it. I was his pastor, and I never had a truer friend, or a
severer censor. One Sunday morning he electrified my congregation, at the close of the sermon,
by rising in his place and making a personal application of a portion of it to individuals
present, and insisting on their immediate expulsion from the Church. He had another side to
his character, and at times was as tender as a woman. He acted as class-leader. In his melting
moods he moved every eye to tears, as he passed round among the brethren and sisters, weeping,
exhorting, and rejoicing. At such times, his great voice softened into a pathos that none could
resist, and swept the chords of sympathy with resistless power. But when his other mood was
upon him, he was fearful. He scourged the unfaithful with a whip of fire. He would quote with
a singular fluency and aptness every passage of Scripture that blasted hypocrites, reproved
the lukewarm, or threatened damnation to the sinner. At such times his voice sounded like the
shout of a warrior in battle, and the timid and wondering hearers looked as if they were in
the midst of the thunder and lightning of a tropical storm. I remember the shock he gave a
quiet and timid lady whom I had persuaded to remain for the class-meeting after service. Fixing
his stern and fiery gaze upon her, and knitting his great bushy eyebrows, he thundered the
question:

"Sister, do you ever pray?"

The startled woman nearly sprang from her seat in a panic as she stammered hurriedly,

"Yes, sir; yes, sir."

She did not attend his class-meeting again.

At a camp-meeting he was present, and in one of his bitterest moods. The meeting was not conducted
in a way to suit him. He was grim, critical, and contemptuous, making no concealment of his
dissatisfaction. The preaching displeased him particularly. He groaned, frowned, and in other
ways showed his feelings. At length he could stand it no longer. A young brother had just closed
a sermon of a mild and persuasive kind, and no sooner had he taken his seat than the old man
arose. Looking forth upon the vast audience, and then casting a sharp and scornful glance at
the preachers in and around "the stand," he said:

"You preachers of these days have no gospel in you. You remind me of a man going into his barnyard
early in the morning to feed his stock. He has a basket on his arm, and here come the horses
nickering, the cows lowing, the calves and sheep bleating, the hogs squealing, the turkeys
gobbling, the hens clucking, and the roosters crowing. They all gather round him, expecting
to be fed, and lo, his basket is empty! You take texts, and you preach, but you have no gospel.
Your baskets are empty."

Here he darted a defiant glance at the astonished preachers, and then, turning to one, he added
in a milder and patronizing tone:

"You, Brother Sim, do preach a little gospel in your basket there is one little nubbin!"

Down he sat, leaving the brethren to meditate on what he had said. The silence that followed
was deep.

At one time his conscience became troubled about the use of tobacco, and he determined to quit.
This was the second great struggle of his life. He was running a sawmill in the foothills at
the time, and lodged in a little cabin near by.

Suddenly deprived of the stimulant to which it had so long been accustomed, his nervous system
was wrought up to a pitch of frenzy. He would rush from the cabin, climb along the hill-side,
run leaping from rock to rock, now and then screaming like a maniac. Then he would rush back
to the cabin, seize a plug of tobacco, smell it, rub it against his lips, and away he would
go again. He smelt, but never tasted it again.

"I was resolved to conquer, and by the grace of God I did," he said.

That was a great victory for the fighting blacksmith.

When a melodeon was introduced into the church, he was sorely grieved and furiously angry.
He argued against it, he expostulated, he protested, he threatened, he staid away from church.
He wrote me a letter, in which he expressed his feelings thus:

San Jose, 1860.

Dear Brother:--They have got the devil into the church now! Put your foot on its tail and it
squeals.

Z. Jones.

This was his figurative way of putting it. I was told that he had, on a former occasion, dealt
with the question in a more summary way, by taking his ax and splitting a melodeon to pieces.

Neutrality in politics was, of course, impossible to such a man. In the civil war his heart
was with the South. He gave up when Stonewall Jackson was killed.

"It is all over--the praying man is gone," he said; and he sobbed like a child. From that day
he had no hope for the Confederacy, though once or twice, when feeling ran high, he expressed
a readiness to use carnal weapons in defense of his political principles. For all his opinions
on the subject he found support from the Bible, which he read and studied with unwearying diligence.
He took its words literally on all occasions, and the Old Testament history had a wonderful
charm for him. He would have been ready to hew any modern Agag in pieces before the Lord.

He finally found his way to the Insane Asylum. The reader has already seen how abnormal was
his mind, and will not be surprised that his storm-tossed soul lost its rudder at last. But
mid all its veerings he never lost sight of the Star that had shed its light upon his checkered
path of life. He raved, and prayed, and wept, by turns. The horrors of mental despair would
be followed by gleams of seraphic joy. When one of his stormy moods was upon him, his mighty
voice could be heard above all the sounds of that sad and pitiful company of broken and wrecked
souls. The old class-meeting instinct and habit showed itself in his semi-lucid intervals.
He would go round among the patients questioning them as to their religious feeling and behavior
in true class-meeting style. Dr. Shurtleff one day overheard a colloquy between him and Dr.
Rogers, a freethinker and reformer, whose vagaries had culminated in his shaving close one
side of his immense whiskers, leaving the other side in all its flowing amplitude. Poor fellow!
Pitiable as was his case, he made a ludicrous figure walking the streets of San Francisco half
shaved, and defiant of the wonder and ridicule he excited. The ex-class-leader's voice was
earnest and loud, as he said:

"Now, Rogers, you must pray. If you will get down at the feet of Jesus, and confess your sins,
and ask him to bless you, he will hear you, and give you peace. But if you won't do it," he
continued, with growing excitement and kindling anger at the thought, "you are the most infernal
rascal that ever lived, and I'll beat you into a jelly!"

The good Doctor had to interfere at this point, for the old man was in the very act of carrying
out his threat to punish Rogers bodily, on the bare possibility that he would not pray as he
was told to do. And so that extemporized class-meeting came to an abrupt end.

"Pray with me," he said to me the last time I saw him at the Asylum. Closing the door of the
little private office, we knelt side by side, and the poor old sufferer, bathed in tears, and
docile as a little child, prayed to the once suffering, once crucified, but risen and interceding
Jesus. When he arose from his knees his eyes were wet, and his face showed that there was a
great calm within. We never met again. He went home to die. The storms that had swept his soul
subsided, the light of reason was rekindled, and the light of faith burned brightly; and in
a few weeks he died in great peace, and another glad voice joined in the anthems of the blood-washed
millions in the city of God.

Tod Robinson.

The image of this man of many moods and brilliant genius that rises most distinctly to my mind
is that connected with a little prayer-meeting in the Minna-street Church, San Francisco, one
Thursday night. His thin silver locks, his dark flashing eye, his graceful pose, and his musical
voice, are before me. His words I have not forgotten, but their electric effect must forever
be lost to all except the few who heard them.

"I have been taunted with the reproach that it was only after I was a broken and disappointed
man in my worldly hopes and aspirations that I turned to religion. The taunt is just"--here
he bowed his head, and paused with deep emotion "the taunt is just. I bow my head in shame,
and take the blow. My earthly hopes have faded and fallen one after another. The prizes that
dazzled my imagination have eluded my grasp. I am a broken, gray-haired man, and I bring to
my God only the remnant of a life. But, brethren, it is this very thought that fills me with
joy and gratitude at this moment--the thought that when all else fails God takes us up. Just
when we need him most, and most feel our need of him, he lifts us up out of the depths where
we had groveled, and presses us to his Fatherly heart. This is the glory of Christianity. The
world turns from us when we fail and fall; then it is that the Lord draws higher. Such a religion
must be from God, for its principles are God-like. It does not require much skill or power
to steer a ship into port when her timbers are sound, her masts all rigged, and her crew at
their posts; but the pilot that can take an old hulk, rocking on the stormy waves, with its
masts torn away, its rigging gone, its planks loose and leaking, and bring it safe to harbor,
that is the pilot for me. Brethren, I am that hulk; and Jesus is that Pilot!"

"Glory be to Jesus!" exclaimed Father Newman; as the speaker, with swimming eyes, radiant face,
and heaving chest, sunk into his seat. I never heard any thing finer from mortal lips, but
it seems cold to me as I read it here. Oratory cannot be put on paper.

He was present once at a camp-meeting, at the famous Toll-gate Camp-ground, in Santa Clara
Valley, near the city of San Jose. It was Sabbath morning, just such a one as seldom dawns
on this earth. The brethren and sisters were gathered around "the stand" under the live-oaks
for a speaking-meeting. The morning glory was on the summits of the Santa Cruz Mountains that
sloped down to the sacred spot, the lovely valley smiled under a sapphire sky, the birds hopped
from twig to twig of the overhanging branches that scarcely quivered in the still air, and
seemed to peer inquiringly into the faces of the assembled worshipers. The bugle-voice of Bailey
led in a holy song, and Simmons led in prayer that touched the eternal throne. One after another,
gray-haired men and saintly women told when and how they began the new life far away on the
old hills they would never see again, and how they had been led and comforted in their pilgrimage.
Young disciples, in the flush of their first love, and the rapture of newborn hope, were borne
out on a tide of resistless feeling into that ocean whose waters encircle the universe. The
radiance from the heavenly hills was reflected from the consecrated encampment, and the angels
of God hovered over the spot. Judge Robinson rose to his feet, and stepped into the altar,
the sunlight at that moment falling upon his face. Every voice was hushed, as, with the orator's
indefinable magnetism, he drew every eye upon him. The pause was thrilling. At length he spoke:

"This is a mount of transfiguration. The transfiguration is on hill and valley, on tree and
shrub, on grass and flower, on earth and sky. It is on your faces that shine like the face
of Moses when he came down from the awful mount where be met Jehovah face to face. The same
light is on your faces, for here is God's shekinah. This is the gate of heaven. I see its shining
hosts, I hear the melody of its songs. The angels of God encamped with us last night, and they
linger with us this morning. Tarry with us, ye sinless ones, for this is heaven on earth!"

He paused, with extended arm, gazing upward entranced. The scene that, followed beggars description.
By a simultaneous impulse all rose to their feet and pressed toward the speaker with awestruck
faces, and when Grandmother Bucker, the matriarch of the valley, with luminous face and uplifted
eyes, broke into a shout, it swelled into a melodious hurricane that shook the very hills.
He ought to have been a preacher. So he said to me once:

"I felt the impulse and heard the call in my early manhood. I conferred with flesh and blood,
and was disobedient to the heavenly vision. I have had some little success at the bar, on the
hustings, and in legislative halls, but how paltry has it been in comparison with the true
life and high career that might have been mine!"

He was from the hill-country of North Carolina, and its flavor clung to him to the last. He
had his gloomy moods, but his heart was fresh as a Blue Ridge breeze in May, and his wit bubbled
forth like a mountain-spring. There was no bitterness in his satire. The very victim of his
thrust enjoyed the keenness of the stroke, for there was no poison in the weapon. At times
he seemed inspired, and you thrilled, melted, and soared, under the touches of this Western
Coleridge. He came to my room at the Golden Eagle, in Sacramento City, one night, and left
at two o'clock in the morning. He walked the floor and talked, and it was the grandest monologue
I ever listened to. One part of it I could not forget. It was with reference to preachers who
turn aside from their holy calling to engage in secular pursuits, or in politics.

"It is turning away from angels' food to feed on garbage. Think of spending a whole life in
contemplating the grandest things, and working for the most glorious ends, instructing the
ignorant, consoling the sorrowing, winning the wayward back to duty and to peace, pointing
the dying to Him who is the light and the life of men, animating the living to seek from the
highest motives a holy life and a sublime destiny! O it is a life that might draw an angel
from the skies! If there is a special hell for fools, it should be kept for the man who turns
aside from a life like this, to trade, or dig the earth, or wrangle in a court of law, or scramble
for an office."

He looked at me as he spoke, with flashing eyes and curled lip.

"That is all true and very fine, Judge, but it sounds just a little peculiar as coming from you."

"I am the very man to say it, for I am the man who bitterly sees its truth. Do not make the
misstep that I did. A man might well be willing to live on bread and water, and walk the world
afoot, for the privilege of giving all his thoughts to the grandest themes, and all his service
to the highest objects. As a lawyer, my life has been spent in a prolonged quarrel about money,
land, houses; cattle, thieving, slandering, murdering, and other villainy. The little episodes
of politics that have given variety to my career have only shown me the baseness of human nature,
and the pettiness of human ambition. There are men who will fill these places and do this work,
and who want and will choose nothing better. Let them have all the good they can get out of
such things. But the minister of the gospel who comes down from the height of his high calling
to engage in this scramble, does that which makes devils laugh and angels weep."

This was the substance of what he said on this point. I have never forgotten it. I am glad
he came to my room that night. What else he said I cannot write, but the remembrance of it
is like to that of a melody that lingers in my soul when the music has ceased.

"I thank you for your sermon today--you never told a single lie."

This was his remark at the close of a service in Minna street one Sunday.

"What is the meaning of that remark?"

That the exaggerations of the pulpit repel thousands from the truth. Moderation of statement
is a rare excellence. A deep spiritual insight enables a religious teacher to shade his meanings
where it is required. Deep piety is genius for the pulpit. Mediocrity in native endowments,
conjoined with spiritual stolidity in the pulpit, does more harm than all the open apostles
of infidelity combined. They take the divinity out of religion and kill the faith of those
who hear them. None but inspired men should stand in the pulpit. Religion is not in the intellect
merely. The world by wisdom cannot know God. The attempt to find out God by the intellect has
always been, and always must be, the completest of failures. Religion is the sphere of the
supernatural, and stands not in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. It has often happened
that men of the first order of talent and the highest culture have been converted by the preaching
of men of weak intellect and limited education, but who were directly taught of God, and had
drunk deep from the fount of living truth in personal experience of the blessed power of Christian
faith. It was through the intellect that the devil seduced the first pair. When we rest in
the intellect only, we miss God. With the heart only can man believe unto righteousness. The
evidence that satisfies is based on consciousness. Consciousness is the satisfying demonstration.
They can be revealed in no other way."

Here was the secret he had learned, and that had brought a new joy and glory into his life
as it neared the sunset. The great change dated from a dark and rainy night as he walked home
in Sacramento City. Not more tangible to Saul of Tarsus was the vision, or more distinctly
audible the voice that spoke to him on the way to Damascus, than was the revelation of Jesus
Christ to this lawyer of penetrating intellect, large and varied reading, and sharp perception
of human folly and weakness. It was a case of conversion in the fullest and divinest sense.
He never fell from the wonder-world of grace to which he had been lifted. His youth seemed
to be renewed, and his life had rebloomed, and its winter was turned into spring, under the
touch of Him who maketh all things new. He was a new man, and he lived in a new world. He never
failed to attend the class-meetings, and in his talks there the flashes of his genius set religious
truths in new lights, and the little band of Methodists were treated to bursts of fervid eloquence,
such as might kindle the listening thousands of metropolitan churches into admiration, or melt
them into tears. On such occasions I could not help regretting anew that the world had lost
what this man might have wrought had his path in life taken a different direction at the start.
He died suddenly, and when in the city of Los Angeles I read the telegram announcing his death,
I felt, mingled with the pain at the loss of a friend, exultation that before there was any
reaction in his religious life his mighty soul had found a congenial home amid the supernal
glories and sublime joys of the world of spirits. The moral of this man's life will be seen
by him for whom this imperfect Sketch has been penciled.

Ah Lee.

He was the sunniest of Mongolians. The Chinaman, under favorable conditions, is not without
a sly sense of humor of his peculiar sort; but to American eyes there is nothing very pleasant
in his angular and smileless features. The manner of his contact with many Californians is
not calculated to evoke mirthfulness. The brickbat may be a good political argument in the
hands of a hoodlum, but it does not make its target playful. To the Chinaman in America the
situation is new and grave, and he looks sober and holds his peace. Even the funny-looking,
be-cued little Chinese children wear a look of solemn inquisitiveness, as they toddle along
the streets of San Francisco by the side of their queer-looking mothers. In his own land, overpopulated
and misgoverned, the Chinaman has a hard fight for existence. In these United States his advent
is regarded somewhat in the same spirit as that of the seventeen year locusts, or the cotton-worm.
The history of a people may be read in their physiognomy. The monotony of Chinese life during
these thousands of years is reflected in the dull, monotonous faces of Chinamen.

Ah Lee was an exception. His skin was almost fair, his features almost Caucasian in their regularity;
his dark eye lighted up with a peculiar brightness, and there was a remarkable buoyancy and
glow about him every way. He was about twenty years old. How long he had been in California
I know not. When he came into my office to see me the first time, he rushed forward and impulsively
grasped my hand, saying:

"My name Ah Lee--you Doctor Plitzjellie?"

That was the way my name sounded as he spoke it. I was glad to see him, and told him so.

"You makee Christian newspaper? You talkee Jesus? Mr. Taylor tellee me. Me Christian--me love
Jesus."

Yes, Ah Lee was a Christian; there could be no doubt about that. I have seen many happy converts,
but none happier than he. He was not merely happy--he was ecstatic.

The story of the mighty change was a simple one, but thrilling. Near Vacaville, the former
seat of the Pacific Methodist College, in Solano county, lived the Rev. Iry Taylor, a member
of the Pacific Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South. Mr. Taylor was a praying
man, and he had a praying wife. Ah Lee was employed as a domestic in the family. His curiosity
was first excited in regard to family prayers. He wanted to know what it all meant. The Taylor's
explained. The old, old story took hold of Ah Lee. He was put to thinking and then to praying.
The idea of the forgiveness of sins filled him with wonder and longing. He hung with breathless
interest upon the word of the Lord, opening to him a world of new thought. The tide of feeling
bore him on, and at the foot of the cross he found what he sought.

Ah Lee was converted--converted as Paul, as Augustine, as Wesley, were converted. He was born
into a new life that was as real to him as his consciousness was real. This psychological change
will be understood by some of my readers; others may regard it as they do any other inexplicable
phenomenon in that mysterious inner world of the human soul, in which are lived the real lives
of us all. In Ah Lee's heathen soul was wrought the gracious wonder that makes joy among the
angels of God.

The young Chinese disciple, it is to be feared, got little sympathy outside the Taylor household
and a few others. The right-hand of Christian fellowship was withheld by many, or extended
in a cold, half-reluctant way. But it mattered not to Ah Lee; he had his own heaven. Coldness
was wasted on him. The light within him brightened every thing without.

Ah Lee became a frequent visitor to our cottage on the hill. He always came and went rejoicing.
The Gospel of John was his daily study and delight. To his ardent and receptive nature it was
a diamond mine. Two things he wanted to do. He had a strong desire to translate his favorite
Gospel into Chinese, and to lead his parents to Christ. When he spoke of his father and mother
his voice would soften, his eyes moisten with tenderness.

"I go back to China and tellee my fader and mudder allee good news," he said, with beaming face.

This peculiar development of filial reverence and affection among the Chinese is a hopeful
feature of their national life. It furnishes a solid basis for a strong Christian nation. The
weakening of this sentiment weakens religious susceptibility; its destruction is spiritual
death. The worship of ancestors is idolatry, but it is that form of it nearest akin to the
worship of the Heavenly Father. The honoring of the father and mother on earth is the commandment
with promise, and it is the promise of this life and of life everlasting.

There is an inter blending of human and divine loves; earth and heaven are unitary in companionship
and destiny. The golden ladder rests on the earth and reaches up into the heavens.

About twice a week Ah Lee came to see us at North Beach. These visits subjected our courtesy
and tact to a severe test. He loved little children, and at each visit he would bring with
him a gayly-painted box filled with Chinese sweetmeats. Such sweetmeats! They were to strong
for the palates of even young Californians. What cannot be relished and digested by a healthy
California boy must be formidable indeed. Those sweetmeats were--but I give it up, they were
indescribable! The boxes were pretty, and, after being emptied of their contents, they were kept.

Ah Lee's joy in his new experience did not abate. Under the touch of the Holy Spirit, his spiritual
nature had suddenly blossomed into tropical luxuriance. To look at him made me think of the
second chapter of the Acts of the Apostles. If I had had any lingering doubts of the transforming
power of the gospel upon all human hearts, this conversion of Ah Lee would have settled the
question forever. The bitter feeling against the Chinese that just then found expression in
California, through so many channels, did not seem to affect him in the least. He had his Christianity
warm from the heart of the Son of God, and no caricature of its features or perversion of its
spirit could bewilder him for a moment. He knew whom he had believed. None of these things
moved him. O blessed mystery of God's mercy, that turns the night of heathen darkness into
day, and makes the desert soul bloom with the flowers of paradise! O cross of the Crucified!
Lifted up, it shall draw all men to their Saviour! And O blind and slow of heart to believe!
why could we not discern that this young Chinaman's conversion was our Lord's gracious challenge
to our faith, and the pledge of success to the Church that will go into all the world with
the news of salvation?

Ah Lee has vanished from my observation, but I have a persuasion that is like a burning prophecy
that he will be heard from again. To me he types the blessedness of old China newborn in the
life of the Lord, and in his luminous face I read the prophecy of the redemption of the millions
who have so long bowed before the Great Red Dragon, but who now wait for the coming of the
Deliverer.

The Climate of California.

Had Shakespeare lived in California, he would not have written of the "winter of our discontent,"
but would most probably have found in the summer of that then undiscovered country a more fitting
symbol of the troublous times referred to; for, with the fogs, winds, and dust, that accompany
the summer, or the "dry season," as it is more appropriately called in California, it is emphatically
a season of discontent. In the mountains of the State only are these conditions not found.
True, you will find dust even there as the natural consequence of the lack of rain; but that
is not, of course, so bad in the mountains; and with no persistent, nagging wind to pick it
up and fling it spitefully at you, you soon get not to mind it at all. But of summer in the
coast country it is hard to speak tolerantly. The perfect flower of its unloveliness flourishes
in San Francisco, and, more or less hardily, all along the coast. From the time the rains cease--generally
some time in May --through the six-months' period of their cessation, the programme for the
day is, with but few exceptions, unvaried. Fog in the morning --chilling, penetrating fog,
which obscures the rays of the morning sun completely, and, dank and "clinging like cerements,"
swathes every thing with its soft, gray folds. On the bay it hangs, heavy and chill, blotting
out everything but the nearest objects, and at a little distance hardly distinguishable from
the water itself. At such times is heard the warning-cry of the foghorns at Fort Point, Goat
Island, and elsewhere--a sound which probably is more like that popularly supposed to be produced
by an expiring cow in her last agony than any thing else, but which is not like that or any
thing in the world but a foghorn. The fog of the morning, however, gives way to the wind of
the afternoon, which, complete master of the situation by three o'clock P.M., holds stormy
sway till sunset. No gentle zephyr this, to softly sway the delicate flower or just lift the
fringe on the maiden's brow, but what seamen call a "spanking breeze," that does not hesitate
to knock off the hat that is not fastened tightly both fore and aft to the underlying head,
or to fling sand and dust into any exposed eye, and which dances around generally among skirts
and coat-tails with untiring energy and persistency. To venture out on the streets of San Francisco
at such times is really no trifling matter; and to one not accustomed to it, or to one of a
non-combative disposition, the performance is not a pleasant one. Still the streets are always
full of hurrying passengers; for, whether attributable to the extra amount of vitality and
vim that this bracing climate imparts to its children, or to a more direct and obvious cause,
the desire to get indoors again as soon as possible, the fact remains the same--that the people
of California walk faster than do those of almost any other country. Not only men either, who
with their coats buttoned up to their chins, and hats jammed tightly over their half-shut eyes,
present a tolerably secure surface to the attacks of the wind, but their fairer sisters too
can be seen, with their fresh cheeks and bright eyes protected by jaunty veils, scudding along
in the face or the track of the wind, as the case may he, with wonderful skill and grace, looking
as trim and secure as to rigging as the lightest schooner in full sail on their own bay.

But it is after the sun has gone down from the cloudless sky, and the sea has recalled its
breezes to slumber for the night, that the fulfillment of the law of compensation is made evident
in this matter. The nights are of silver, if the days be not of gold. And all over the State
this blessing of cool, comfortable nights is spread. At any season, one can draw a pair of
blankets over him upon retiring, sure of sound, refreshing slumber, unless assailed by mental
or physical troubles to which even this glorious climate of California cannot minister.

The country here during this rainless season does not seem to the Eastern visitor enough like
what he has known as country in the summer to warrant any outlay in getting there. He must,
however, understand that here people go to the country for precisely opposite reasons to those
which influence Eastern tourists to leave the city and betake themselves to rural districts.
In the East, one leaves the crowded streets and heated atmosphere of the great city to seek
coolness in some sylvan retreat. Here, we leave the chilling winds and fogs of the city to
try to get warm where they cannot penetrate. Warm it may be; but the country at this season
is not at its best as to looks. The flowers and the grass have disappeared with the rains,
the latter, however, keeping in its dry, brown roots, that the sun scorches daily, the germ
of all next winter's green. Of the trees, the live-oak alone keeps to the summer livery of
Eastern forests. Farther up in the mountain counties it is very different. No fairer summer
could be wished for than that which reigns cloudless here; and with the sparkling champagne
of that clear, dry air in his nostrils, our Eastern visitor forgets even to sigh for a summer
shower to lay the dreadful dust. And even in the valleys and around the bay, we must confess
that some advantages arise from the no-rain-for-six-months policy. Picnickers can set forth
any day, with no fear of the fun of the occasion being wet-blanketed by an unlooked-for shower;
and farmers can dispose of their crops according to convenience, often leaving their wheat
piled up in the field, with no fear of danger from the elements.

Still we do get very tired of this long, strange summer, and the first rains are eagerly looked
for and joyously welcomed. The fall of the first showers after such a long season of bareness
and brownness is almost as immediate in its effects as the waving of a fairy's magic wand over
Cinderella, sitting ragged in the ashes and cinders.

With these rains the grass springs up, the trees put out, and the winds disappear, leaving
in the air a wonderful softness. In a month or two the flowers appear, and the hills are covered
with a mantle of glory. Bluebells, lupins, buttercups, and hosts of other blossoms, spring
up in profusion; and, illuminating every thing, the wild California poppy lifts its flaming
torch, typifying well, in its dazzling and glowing color, the brilliant minds and passionate
hearts of the people of this land. All these bloom on through the winter, for this is a winter
but in name. With no frost, ice, or snow, it is more like an Eastern spring, but for the absence
of that feeling of languor and debility which is so often felt in that season. True it rains
a good deal, but by no means constantly, more often in the night; and it is this season of
smiles and tears, this winter of flowers and budding trees, in which the glory of the California
climate lies. Certainly nothing could be more perfect than a bright winter day in that State.
Still, after all I could say in its praise, you would not know its full charm till you had
felt its delicious breath on your own brow; for the peculiar freshness and exhilaration of
the air are indescribable.

Sometimes in March, the dwellers on the bay are treated to a blow or two from the north, which
is about as serious weather as the inhabitant of that favored clime ever experiences. After
a night whose sleep has been broken by shrieks of the wind and the rattling of doors and windows,
I wake with a dullness of head and sensitiveness of nerve that alone would be sufficient to
tell me that the north wind had risen like a thief in the night, and had not, according to
the manner of that class, stolen away before morning. On the contrary, he seems to be rushing
around with an energy that betokens a day of it. I dress, and look out of my window. The bay
is a mass of foaming, tossing waves, which, as they break on the beach just below, cast their
spray twenty feet in air. All the little vessels have come into port, and only a few of the
largest ships still ride heavily at their anchors. The hue separating the shallow water near
the shore from the deeper waters beyond is much farther out than usual, and is more distinct.
Within its boundary, the predominant white is mixed with a dark, reddish brown; without, the
spots of color are darkest green. The shy has been swept of every particle of cloud and moisture,
and is almost painfully blue. Against it, Mounts Tamalpais and Diablo stand outlined with startling
clearness. The hills and islands round the bay look as cold and uncomfortable in their robes
of bright green as a young lady who has put on her spring-dress too soon. The streets and walks
are swept bare, but still the air is filled with flying sand that cuts my face like needles,
when, later, overcoated and gloved to the utmost, I proceed downtown. Such days are Nature's
cleaning days, very necessary to future health and comfort, but, like all cleaning-days, very
unpleasant to go through with. With her mightiest besom does the old lady sweep all the cobwebs
from the sky, all the dirt and germs of disease from the ground, and remove all specks and
impurities from her air-windows. One or two such "northers" finish up the season, effectually
scaring away all the clouds, thus clearing the stage for the next act in this annual drama
of two acts.

This climate of California is perfectly epitomized in a stanza of the same poem before quoted:

So each year the season shifted, Wet and warm, and drear and dry,

Half a year-of cloud and flowers, Half a year of dust and sky.

After the Storm.

(Penciled in the bay-window above the Golden Gate, North Beach, San Francisco, February 20, 1873.)

All day the winds the sea had lashed, The fretted waves in anger dashed Against the rocks in
tumult wild Above the surges roughly piled--No blue above, no peace below, The waves still
rage, the winds still blow.

Dull and muffled the sunset gun Tells that the dreary day is done; The sea-birds fly with drooping
wing--Chill and shadow on every thing--No blue above, no peace below, The waves still rage,
the winds still blow.

The clouds dispart; the sapphire dye In beauty spreads o'er the western sky, Cloud-fires blaze
o'er the Gate of Gold, Gleaming and glowing, fold on fold--All blue above, all peace below,
Nor waves now rage, nor winds now blow.

Souls that are lashed by storms of pain, Eyes that drip with sorrow's rain; Hearts that burn
with passion strong, Bruised and torn, and weary of wrong--No light above, no peace within,
Battling with self, and torn by sin--

Hope on, hold on, the clouds will lift; God's peace will come as his own sweet gift, The light
will shine at evening-time, The reflected beams of the sunlit clime, The blessed goal of the
soul's long quest, Where storms ne'er beat, and all are blest.

Bishop Kavanaugh in California.

He came first in 1856. The Californians "took to" him at once. It was almost as good as a visit
to the old home to see and hear this rosy-faced, benignant, and solid Kentuckian. His power
and pathos in the pulpit were equaled by his humor and magnetic charm in the social circle.
Many consciences were stirred. All hearts were won by him, and he holds them unto this day.
We may hope too that many souls were won that will be stars in his crown of rejoicing in the
day of Jesus Christ.

At San Jose, his quality as a preacher was developed by an incident that excited no little
popular interest. The (Northern) Methodist Conference was in session at that place, the venerable
and saintly Bishop Scott presiding. Bishop Kavanaugh was invited to preach, and it so happened
that he was to do so on the night following an appointment for Bishop Scott. The matter was
talked of in the town, and not unnaturally a spirit of friendly rivalry was excited with regard
to the approaching pulpit performances by the Northern and Southern Bishops respectively. One
enthusiastic but not pious Kentuckian offered to bet a hundred dollars that Kavanaugh would
preach the better sermon. Of course the two venerable men were unconscious of all this, and
nothing of the kind was in their hearts. The church was thronged to hear Bishop Scott, and
his humility, strong sense, deep earnestness, and holy emotion, made a profound and happy impression
on all present. The church was again crowded the next night. Among the audience was a considerable
number of Southerners--wild fellows, who were not often seen in such places, among them the
enthusiastic Kentuckian already alluded to. Kavanaugh, after going through with the preliminary
services, announced his text, and began his discourse. He seemed not to be in a good preaching
mood. His wheels drove heavily. Skirmishing around and around, he seemed to be reconnoitering
his subject, finding no salient point for attack. The look of eager expectation in the faces
of the people gave way to one of puzzled and painful solicitude. The heads of the expectant
Southerners drooped a little, and the betting Kentuckian betrayed his feelings by a lowering
of the under-jaw and sundry nervous twitchings of the muscles of his face. The good Bishop
kept talking, but the wheels revolved slowly. It was a solemn and "trying time" to at least
a portion of the audience, as the Bishop, with head bent over the Bible and his broad chest
stooped, kept trying to coax a response from that obstinate text. It seemed a lost battle.
At last a sudden flash of thought seemed to strike the speaker, irradiating his face and lifting
his form as he gave it utterance, with a characteristic throwing back of his shoulders and
upward sweep of his arms. Those present will never forget what followed. The afflatus of the
true orator had at last fallen upon him; the mighty ship was launched, and swept out to sea
under full canvas. Old Kentucky was on her feet that night in San Jose. It was indescribable.
Flashes of spiritual illumination, explosive bursts of eloquent declamation, sparkles of chastened
wit, appeals of overwhelming intensity, followed like the thunder and lightning of a Southern
storm. The church seemed literally to rock. "Amens" burst from the electrified Methodists of
all sorts; these were followed by "hallelujahs" on all sides; and when the sermon ended with
a rapturous flight of imagination, half the congregation were on their feet, shaking hands,
embracing one another, and shouting. In the tremendous religious impression made, criticism
was not thought of. Even the betting Kentuckian showed by his heaving breast and tearful eyes
how far he was borne out of the ordinary channels of his thought and feeling.

He came to Sonora, where I was pastor, to preach to the miners. It was our second year in California,
and the paternal element in his nature fell on us like a benediction. He preached three noble
sermons to full houses in the little church on the red hillside, but his best discourses were
spoken to the young preacher in the tiny parsonage. Catching the fire of the old polemics that
led to the battles of the giants in the West, he went over the points of difference between
the Arminiau and Calvinistic schools of theology in a way that left a permanent deposit in
a mind which was just then in its most receptive state. We felt very lonesome after he had
left. It was like a touch of home to have him with us then, and in his presence we have had
the feeling ever since. What a home will heaven be where all such men will be gathered in one
company!

It was a warm day when he went down to take the stage for Mariposa. The vehicle seemed to be
already full of passengers, mostly Mexicans and Chinamen. When the portly Bishop presented
himself, and essayed to enter, there were frowns and expressions of dissatisfaction.

"Mucho malo!" exclaimed a dark-skinned Senorita, with flashing black eyes.

"Make room in there--he's got to go," ordered the bluff stage-driver, in a peremptory tone.

There were already eight passengers inside, and the top of the coach was covered as thick as
robins on a sumac-bush. The Bishop mounted the step and surveyed the situation. The seat assigned
him was between two Mexican women, and as he sunk into the apparently insufficient space there
was a look of consternation in their faces--and I was not surprised at it. But scrouging in,
the newcomer smiled, and addressed first one and then another of his fellow-passengers with
so much friendly pleasantness of manner that the frowns cleared away from their faces, even
the stolid, phlegmatic Chinamen brightening up with the contagious good humor of the "big Mellican
man." When the driver cracked his whip, and the spirited mustangs struck off in the California
gallop --the early Californians scorned any slower gait--everybody was smiling. Staging in
California in those days was often an exciting business. There were "opposition" lines on most
of the thoroughfares, and the driving was furious and reckless in the extreme. Accidents were
strangely seldom when we consider the rate of speed, the nature of the roads, and the quantity
of bad whisky consumed by most of the drivers. Many of these drivers made it a practice to
drink at every stopping-place. Seventeen drinks were counted in one forenoon ride by one of
these thirsty Jehus. The racing between the rival stages was exciting enough. Lashing the wiry
little horses to full speed, there was but one thought, and that was, to "get in ahead." A
driver named White upset his stage between Montezuma and Knight's Ferry on the Stanislaus,
breaking his right-leg above the knee. Fortunately none of the passengers were seriously hurt,
though some of them were a little bruised and frightened. The stage was righted, White resumed
the reins, whipped his horses into a run, and, with his broken limb hanging loose, ran into
town ten minutes ahead of his rival, fainting as he was lifted from the seat.

"Old man Holden told me to go in ahead or smash everything, and I made it!" exclaimed White,
with professional pride.

The Bishop was fortunate enough to escape with unbroken bones as he dashed from point to point
over the California hills and valleys, though that heavy body of his was mightily shaken up
on many occasions.

He came to California on his second visit, in 1863, when the war was raging. An incident occurred
that gave him a very emphatic reminder that those were troublous times.

He was at a camp-meeting in the San Joaquin Valley, near Linden--a place famous for gatherings
of this sort. The Bishop was to preach at eleven o'clock, and a great crowd was there, full
of high expectation. A stranger drove up just before the hour of service--a broad shouldered
man in blue clothes, and wearing a glazed cap. He asked to see Bishop Kavanaugh privately for
a few moments.

They retired to "the preachers' tent," and the stranger said:

"My name is Jackson--Colonel Jackson, of the United States Army. I have a disagreeable duty
to perform. By order of General McDowell, I am to place you under arrest, and take you to San
Francisco."

"Can you wait until I preach my sermon?" asked the Bishop, good-naturedly; "the people expect
it, and I don't want to disappoint them if it can be helped."

"How long will it take you?"

"Well, I am a little uncertain when I get started, but I will try not to be too long."

"Very well; go on with your sermon, and if you have no objection I will be one of your hearers."

The secret was known only to the Bishop and his captor. The sermon was one of his best--the
vast crowd of people were mightily moved, and the Colonel's eyes were not dry when it closed.
After a prayer, and a song, and a collection, the Bishop stood up again before the people,
and said:

"I have just received a message which makes it necessary for me to return to San Francisco
immediately. I am sorry that I cannot remain longer, and participate with you in the hallowed
enjoyments of the occasion. The blessing of God be with you, my brethren and sisters."

His manner was so bland, and his tone so serene, that nobody had the faintest suspicion as
to what it was that called him away so suddenly. When he drove off with the stranger, the popular
surmise was that it was a wedding or a funeral that called for such haste. These are two events
in human life that admit of no delays: people must be buried, and they will be married.

The Bishop reported to General Mason, Provost-marshal General, and was told to hold himself
as in duress until further orders, and to be ready to appear at headquarters at short notice
when called for. He was put on parole, as it were. He came down to San Jose and stirred my
congregation with several of his powerful discourses. In the meantime the arrest had gotten
into the newspapers. Nothing that happens escapes the California journalists, and they have
even been known to get hold of things that never happened at all. It seems that someone in
the shape of a man had made an affidavit that Bishop Kavanaugh had come to the Pacific Coast
as a secret agent of the Southern Confederacy, to intrigue and recruit in its interest! Five
minutes' inquiry would have satisfied General McDowell of the silliness of such a charge--but
it was in war times, and he did not stop to make the inquiry. In Kentucky the good old Bishop
had the freedom of the whole land, coming and going without hinderance; but the fact was, he
had not been within the Confederate lines since the war began. To make such an accusation against
him was the climax of absurdity.

About three weeks after the date of his arrest, I was with the Bishop one morning on our way
to Judge Moore's beautiful country-seat, near San Jose, situated on the far-famed Alameda.
The carriage was driven by a black man named Henry. Passing the post-office, I found, addressed
to the Bishop in my care, a huge document bearing the official stamp of the provost-marshal's
office, San Francisco. He opened and read it as we drove slowly along, and as he did so he
brightened up, and turning to Henry, said:

"Henry, were you ever a slave?"

"Yes, sah; in Mizzoory," said Henry, showing his white teeth.

"Did you ever get your free-papers?"

"Yes, sah--got 'em now."

"Well, I have got mine--let's shake hands."

And the Bishop and Henry had quite a handshaking over this mutual experience. Henry enjoyed
it greatly, as his frequent chucklings evinced while the Judge's fine bays were trotting along
the Alameda.

(I linger on the word Alameda as I write it. It is at least one beneficent trace of the early
Jesuit Fathers who founded the San Jose and Santa Clara missions a hundred years ago. They
planted an avenue of willows the entire three miles, and in that rich, moist soil the trees
have grown until their trunks are of enormous size, and their branches, overarching the highway
with their dense shade, make a drive of unequaled beauty and pleasantness. The horse-cars have
now taken away much of its romance, but in the early days it was famous for moonlight drives
and their concomitants and consequences. A long-limbed four-year-old California colt gave me
a romantic touch of a different sort, nearly the last time I was on the Alameda, by running
away with the buggy, and breaking it and me--almost--to pieces. I am reminded of it by the
pain in my crippled right-shoulder as I write these lines in July, 1881. But still I say, Blessings
on the memory of the Fathers who planted the willows on the Alameda!)

An intimation was given the Bishop that if he wanted the name of the false-swearer who had
caused him to be arrested he could have it.

"No, I don't want to know his name," said he; "it will do me no good to know it. May God pardon
his sin, as I do most heartily!"

A really strong preacher preaches a great many sermons, each of which the hearers claim to
be the greatest sermon of his life. I have heard of at least a half dozen "greatest" sermons
by Bascom and Pierce, and other noted pulpit orators. But I heard one sermon by Kavanaugh that
was probably indeed his master-effort. It had a history. When the Bishop started to Oregon,
in 1863, I placed in his hands Bascom's Lectures, which, strange to say, he had never read.
Of these Lectures the elder Dr. Bond said "they would be the colossal pillars of Bascom's fame
when his printed sermons were forgotten." Those Lectures wonderfully anticipated the changing
phases of the materialistic infidelity developed since his day, and applied to them the reductio
ad absurdum with relentless and resistless power. On his return from Oregon, Kavanaugh met
and presided over the Annual Conference at San Jose. One of his old friends, who was troubled
with skeptical thoughts of the materialistic sort, requested him to preach a sermon for his
special benefit. This request, and the previous reading of the Lectures, directed his mind
to the topic suggested with intense earnestness. The result was, as I shall always think, the
sermon of a lifetime. The text was, There is a spirit in man; and the inspiration of the Almighty
giveth them understanding. (Job xxxii. 8.) That mighty discourse was a demonstration of the
truth of the affirmation of the text. I will not attempt to reproduce it here, though many
of its passages are still vivid in my memory. It tore to shreds the sophistries by which it
was sought to sink immortal man to the level of the brutes that perish; it appealed to the
consciousness of his hearers in red-hot logic that burned its way to the inmost depths of the
coldest and hardest hearts; it scintillated now and then sparkles of wit like the illuminated
edges of an advancing thundercloud; borne, on the wings of his imagination, whose mighty sweep
took him beyond the bounds of earth, through whirling worlds and burning suns, he found the
culmination of human destiny, in the bosom of eternity, infinity, and God. The peroration was
indescribable. The rapt audience reeled under it. Inspiration! the man of God was himself its
demonstration, for the power of his word was not his own.

"O I thank God that be sent me here this day to hear that sermon! I never heard any thing like
it, and I shall never forget it, or cease to be thankful that I heard it," said the Rev. Dr.
Charles Wadsworth, of Philadelphia, the great Presbyterian preacher--a man of genius, and a
true prose-poet, as any one will concede after reading his published sermons. As he spoke,
the tears were in his eyes, the muscles of his face quivering, and his chest heaving with irrepressible
emotion. Nobody who heard that discourse will accuse me of too high coloring in this brief
description of it.

"Don't you wish you were a Kentuckian?" was the enthusiastic exclamation of a lady who brought
from Kentucky a matchless wit and the culture of Science Hill Academy, which has blessed and
brightened so many homes from the Ohio to the Sacramento.

I think the Bishop was present on another occasion when the compliment he received was a left-handed
one. It was at the Stone Church in Suisun Valley. The Bishop and a number of the most prominent
ministers of the Pacific Conference were present at a Saturday-morning preaching appointment.
They had all been engaged in protracted labors, and, beginning with the Bishop, one after another
declined to preach. The lot fell at last upon a boyish-looking brother of very small stature,
who labored under the double disadvantage of being a very young preacher, and of having been
reared in the immediate vicinity. The people were disappointed and indignant when they saw
the little fellow go into the pulpit. None showed their displeasure more plainly than Uncle
Ben Brown, a somewhat eccentric old brother, who was one of the founders of that Society, and
one of its best official members. He sat as usual on a front seat, his thick eyebrows fiercely
knit, and his face wearing a heavy frown. He had expected to hear the Bishop, and this was
what it had come to! He drew his shoulders sullenly down, and, with his eyes bent upon the
floor, nursed his wrath. The little preacher began his sermon, and soon astonished everybody
by the energy with which he spoke. As he proceeded, the frown on Uncle Ben's face relaxed a
little; at length he lifted his eyes and glanced at the speaker in surprise. He did not think
it was in him. With abnormal fluency and force, the little preacher went on with the increasing
sympathy of his audience, who were feeling the effects of a generous reaction in his favor.
Uncle Ben, touched a little with honest obstinacy as he was, gradually relaxed in the sternness
of his looks, straightening up by degrees until he sat upright facing the speaker in a sort
of half-reluctant, pleased wonder. Just at the close of a specially vigorous burst of declamation,
the old man exclaimed, in a loud voice:

"Bless God! he uses the weak things of this world to confound the mighty!" casting around a
triumphant glance at the Bishop and other preachers.

This impromptu remark was more amusing to the hearers than helpful to the preacher, I fear;
but it was away the dear old brother had of speaking out in meeting.

I must end this Sketch. I have dipped my pen in my heart in writing it. The subject of it has
been friend, brother, father, to me since the day he looked in upon us in the little cabin
on the hill in Sonora, in 1855. When I greet him on the hills of heaven, he will not be sorry
to be told that among the many in the far West to whom he was helpful was the writer of this
too imperfect Sketch.

Sanders.

He belonged to the Church militant. In looks he was a cross between a grenadier and a Trappist.
But there was more soldier than monk in his nature. He was over six feet high, thin as a bolster,
and straight as a long-leaf pine. His anatomy was strongly conspicuous. He was the boniest
of men. There were as many angles as inches in the lines of his face. His hair disdained the
persuasions of comb or brush, and rose in tangled masses above a head that would have driven
a phrenologist mad. It was a long head in every sense. His features were strong and stern,
his nose one that would have delighted the great Napoleon--it was a grand organ. You said at
once, on looking at him, Here is a man that fears neither man nor devil. The face was an honest
face. When you looked into those keen, dark eyes, and read the lines of that stormy countenance,
you felt that it would be equally impossible for him to tell a lie or to fear the face of man.

This was John Sanders, one of the early California Methodist preachers. He went among the first
to preach the gospel to the gold-hunters. He got a hearing where some failed. His sincerity
and brainpower commanded attention, and his pluck enforced respect. In one case it seemed to
be needed.

He was sent to preach in Placerville, popularly called in the old days, "Hangtown." It was
then a lively and populous place. The mines were rich, and gold-dust was abundant as good behavior
was scarce. The one church in the town was a "union church," and it was occupied by Sanders
and a preacher of another sect on alternate Sundays. All went well for many months, and if
there were no sinners converted in that camp, the few saints were at peace. It so happened
that Sanders was called away for a week or two, and on his return he found that a new preacher
had been sent to the place, and that he had made an appointment to preach on his (Sanders's)
regular day. Having no notion of yielding his rights, Sanders also inserted a notice in the
papers of the town that he would preach at the same time and place. The thing was talked about
in the town and vicinity, and there was a buzz of excitement. The miners, always ready for
a sensation, became interested, and when Sunday came the church could not hold the crowd. The
strange preacher arrived first, entered the pulpit, knelt a few moments in silent devotion,
according to custom, and then sat and surveyed the audience which was surveying him with curious
interest. He was a tall, fine-looking man, almost the equal of Sanders in height, and superior
to him in height. He was a Kentuckian originally, but went from Ohio to California, and was
a full-grown man, of the best Western physical type. In a little while Sanders entered the
church, made his way through the dense crowd, ascended the pulpit, cast a sharp glance at the
intruder, and sat down. There was a dead silence. The two preachers gazed at the congregation;
the congregation gazed at the preachers. A pin might have been heard to fall. Sanders was as
imperturbable as a statue, but his lips were pressed together tightly, and there was a blaze
in his eyes. The strange preacher showed signs of nervousness, moving his hands and feet, and
turning this way and that in his seat. It was within five minutes of the time for opening the
service. The stranger rose, and was in the act of taking hold of the Bible that lay on the
cushion in front of him, when Sanders rose to his full height, stepped in front of him, and
darting lightning from his eyes as he looked him full in the face, said:

"I preach here today, sir!"

That settled it. There was no mistaking that look or tone. The tall stranger muttered an inarticulate
protest and subsided. Sanders proceeded with the service, making no allusion to the difficulty
until it was ended. Then he proposed a meeting of the citizens the next evening to adjudicate
the case. The proposal was acceded to. The church was again crowded; and though ecclesiastically
Sanders was in the minority, with the genuine love for fair-play which is a trait of Anglo-Saxon
character, he was sustained by an overwhelming majority. It is likely, too, that his plucky
bearing the, day before made him some votes. A preacher who would fight for his rights suited
those wild fellows better than one who would assert a claim that he would not enforce. Sanders
preached to larger audiences after this episode in his "Hangtown" pastorate.

It was after this that he went out one day to stake off a lot on which he proposed to build
a house of worship. It was near the Roman Catholic Church. A zealous Irishman, who was a little
more than half drunk, was standing by. Evidently he did not like any such heretical movements,
and, after Sanders had placed the stake in the earth, the Hibernian stepped forward and pulled
it up.

"I put the stake back in its place. He pulled it up again. I put it back. He pulled it up again.
I put it back once more. He got fiery mad by this time, and started at me with an ax in his
hand. I had an ax in my hand, and as its handle was longer than his, I cut him down."

The poor fellow had waked up the fighting preacher, and fell before the sweep of Sanders's
ax. He dodged as the weapon descended, and saved his life by doing so. He got an ugly wound
on the shoulder, and kept his bed for many weeks. When he rose from his bed he had a profound
regard for Sanders, whose grit excited his admiration. There was not a particle of resentment
in his generous Irish heart. He became a sober man, and it was afterward a current pleasantry
among the "boys" that he was converted by the use of the carnal weapon wielded by that spunky
parson. Nobody blamed Sanders for his part in the matter. It was a fair fight, and he had the
right on his side. Had he shown the white feather, that would have damaged him with a community
in whose estimation courage as the cardinal virtue. Sanders was popular with all classes, and
Placerville remembers him to this day. He was no rose-water divine, but thundered the terrors
of the law into the ears of those wild fellows with the boldness of a John the Baptist. Many
a sinner quaked under his stern logic and fiery appeals, and some repented.

I shall never forget a sermon he preached at San Jose. He was in bad health, and his mind was
morbid and gloomy. His text was, Who hath hardened himself against him, and hath prospered?
(Job ix. 4.) The thought that ran through the discourse was the certainty that retribution
would overtake the guilty. God's law will be upheld. It protects the righteous, but must crush
the disobedient. He swept away the sophisms by which men persuade themselves that they can
escape the penalty of violated law; and it seemed as if we could almost hear the crash of the
tumbling wrecks of hopes built on false foundations. God Almighty was visible on the throne
of his power, armed with the even thunders of his wrath.

"Who hath defied God and escaped?" he demanded, with flashing eyes and trumpet voice. And then
he recited the histories of nations and men that had made the fatal experiment, and the doom
that had whelmed them in utter ruin.

"And yet you hope to escape!" he thundered to the silent and awestruck men and women before
him. "You expect that God will abrogate his law to please you; that he will tear down the pillars
of his moral government that you may be saved in your sins! O fools, fools, fools! there is
no place but hell for such a folly as this!"

His haggard face, the stern solemnity of his voice, the sweep of his long arms, the gleam of
his deep-set eyes, and the vigor of his inexorable logic, drove that sermon home to the listeners.

He was the keenest of critics, and often merciless. He was present at a camp-meeting near San
Jose, but too feeble to preach. I was there, and disabled from, the effects of the California
poison-oak. That deceitful shrub! Its pink leaves smile at you as pleasantly as sin, and, like
sin, it leaves its sting. The "preachers' tent" was immediately in the rear of "the stand,"
and Sanders and I lay inside and listened to the sermons. He was in one of his caustic moods,
and his comments were racy enough, though not helpful to devotion.

"There! he yelled, clapped his hands, stamped, and--said nothing!"

The criticism was just: the brother in the stand was making a great noise, but there was not
much meaning in what he said.

"He made one point only--a pretty good apology for Lazarus's poverty."

This was said at the close of an elaborate discourse on "The Rich Man and Lazarus," by a brother
who sometimes got "in the brush."

"He isn't touching his text--he knows no more theology than a guinea-pig. Words, words, words!"

This last criticism was directed against a timid young divine, who was badly frightened, but
who has since shown that there was good metal in him. If he had known what was going on just
behind him, he would have collapsed entirely in that tentative effort at preaching the gospel.

Sanders kept up this running fire of criticism at every service, cutting to the bone, at every
blow, and giving me new light on homiletics, if he did not promote my enjoyment of the preaching.
He had read largely and thought deeply, and his incisive intellect had no patience with what
was feeble or pointless.

Disease settled upon his lungs, and he rapidly declined. His strong frame grew thinner and
thinner, and his mind alternated between moods of morbid bitterness and transient buoyancy.
As the end approached, his bitter moods were less frequent, and an unwonted tenderness came
into his words and tones. He went to the Lokonoma Springs, in the hills of Napa county, and
in their solitudes he adjusted himself to the great change that was drawing near. The capacious
blue sky that arched above him, the sighing of the gentle breeze through the solemn pines,
the repose of the encircling mountains, bright with sunrise, or purpling in the twilight, distilled
the soothing influences of nature into his spirit, and there was a great calm within. Beyond
those California hills the hills of God rose in their supernal beauty before the vision of
his faith, and when the summons came for him one midnight, his soul leaped to meet it in a
ready and joyous response. On a white marble slab, at the "Stone Church," in Suisun Valley,
is this inscription:

Rev. John Sanders.

Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivereth him out of them all.

The spring flowers were blooming on the grave when I saw it last.

A Day.

Ah, that blessed, blessed day! I had gone to the White Sulphur Springs, in Napa County, to
get relief from the effects of the California poison-oak. Gay deceiver! With its tender green
and pink leaves, it looks as innocent and smiling as sin when it woos youth and ignorance.
Like sin, it is found everywhere in that beautiful land. Many antidotes are used, but the only
sure way of dealing with it is to keep away from it. Again, there is an analogy: it is easier
to keep out of sin than to get out when caught. These soft, pure white sulphur waters work
miracles of healing, and attract all sorts of people. The weary and broken down man of business
comes here to sleep, and eat, and rest; the woman of fashion, to dress and flirt; the loudly-dressed
and heavily-bejeweled gambler, to ply his trade; happy bridal couples, to have the world to
themselves; successful and unsuccessful politicians, to plan future triumphs or brood over
defeats; pale and trembling invalids, to seek healing or a brief respite from the grave; families
escaping from the wind and fog of the bay, to spend a few weeks where they can find sunshine
and quiet--it is a little world in itself. The spot is every way beautiful, but its chief charm
is its isolation. Though within a few hours' ride of San Francisco, and only two miles from
a railroad-station, you feel as if you were in the very heart of nature --and so you are. Winding
along the banks of a sparkling stream, the mountains--great masses of leafy green--rise abruptly
on either hand; the road bends this way and that until a sudden turn brings you to a little
valley hemmed in all around by the giant hills. A bold, rocky projection just above the main
hotel gives a touch of ruggedness and grandeur to the scene. How delicious the feeling of rest
that comes over you at once!--the world shut out, the hills around, and the sky above.

It was in 1863, when the civil war was at its white heat. Circumstances had given me undesired
notoriety in that connection. I had been thrust into the very vortex of its passion, and my
name made the rallying-cry of opposing elements in California. The guns of Manassas, Cedar
Mountain, and the Chickahominy, were echoed in the foothills of the Sierras, and in the peaceful
valleys of the far-away Pacific Coast. The good sense of a practical, people prevented any
flagrant outbreak on a large scale, but here and there a too ardent Southerner said or did
something that gave him a few weeks' or months' duress at Fort Alcatraz, and the honors of
a bloodless martyrdom. I was then living at North Beach, in full sight of that fortress. It
was kindly suggested by several of my brother editors that it would be a good place for me.
When, as my eye swept over the bay in the early morning, the first sight that met my gaze was
its rocky ramparts and bristling guns, the poet's line would come to mind: "'T is distance
lends enchantment to the view." I was just as close as I wanted to be. "I have good quarters
for you," said the brave and courteous Captain McDougall, who was in command at the fort; "and
knowing your penchant, I will let you have the freedom of a sunny corner of the island for
fishing in good weather." The true soldier is sometimes a true gentleman.

The name and image of another Federal officer rise before me as I write. It is that of the
heroic soldier, General Wright, who went down with the "Brother Jonathan," on the Oregon coast,
in 1865. He was in command of the Department of the Pacific during this stormy period of which
I am speaking. I had never seen him, and I had no special desire to make his acquaintance.
Somehow Fort Alcatraz had become associated with his name for reasons already intimated. But,
though unsought by me, an interview did take place.

"It has come at last!" was my exclamation as I read the note left by an orderly in uniform
notifying me that I was expected to report at the quarters of the commanding-general the next
day at ten o'clock. Conscious of my innocence of treason or any other crime against the Government
or society, my pugnacity was roused by this summons. Before the hour set for my appearance
at the military headquarters, I was ready for martyrdom or any thing else except Alcatraz.
I didn't like that. The island was too small, and too foggy and windy, for my taste. I thought
it best to obey the order I had received, and so, punctually at the hour, I repaired to the
headquarters on Washington Street, and ascending the steps with a firm tread and defiant feeling,
I entered the room. General Mason, provost-marshal, a scholar and polished gentleman, politely
offered me a seat.

"No; I prefer to stand," I said stiffly.

"The General will see you in a few minutes," said he, resuming his work, while I stood nursing
my indignation and sense of wrong.

In a little while General Wright entered--a tall and striking figure, silver-haired, blue-eyed,
ruddy faced, with a mixture of the dash of the soldier and the benignity of a bishop.

Declining also his cordial invitation to be seated, I stood and looked at him, still nursing
defiance, and getting ready to wear a martyr's crown. The General spoke:

"Did you know, sir, that I am perhaps the most attentive reader of your paper to be found in
California?"

"No; I was not aware that I had the honor of numbering the commanding-general of this department
among my readers." (This was spoken with severe dignity.)

"A lot of hotheads have for sometime been urging me to have you arrested on the ground that
you are editing and publishing a disloyal newspaper. Not wishing to do any injustice to a fellowman,
I have taken means every week to obtain a copy of your paper, the Pacific Methodist; and allow
me to say, sir, that no paper has ever come into my family which is such a favorite with all
of us."

I bowed, feeling that the spirit of martyrdom was cooling within me. The General continued:

"I have sent for you, sir, that I might say to you, Go on in your present prudent and manly
course, and while I command this department you are as safe as I am."

There I stood, a whipped man, my pugnacity all gone, and the martyr's crown away out of my
reach. I walked softly downstairs, after bidding the General an adieu in a manner in marked
contrast to that in which I had greeted him at the beginning of the interview. Now that it
is all over, and the ocean winds have wailed their dirges for him so many long years, I would
pay a humble tribute to the memory of as brave and knightly a man as ever wore epaulettes or
fought under the stars and stripes. He was of the type of Sidney Johnston, who fell at Shiloh,
and of McPherson, who fell at Kennesaw--all Californians; all Americans, true soldiers, who
had a sword for the foe in fair fight in the open field, and a shield for woman, and for the
noncombatant, the aged, the defenseless. They fought on different sides to settle forever a
quarrel that was bequeathed to their generation, but their fame is the common inheritance of
the American people. The reader is beginning to think I am digressing, but he will better understand
what is to come after getting this glimpse of those stormy days in the sixties.

The guests at the Springs were about equally divided in their sectional sympathies. The gentlemen
were inclined to avoid all exciting discussions, but the ladies kept up a fire of small arms.
When the mails came in, and the latest news was read, comments were made with flashing eyes
and flushed cheeks.

The Sabbath morning dawned without a cloud. I awoke with the earliest song of the birds, and
was out before the first rays of the sun had touched the mountaintops. The coolness was delicious,
and the air was filled with the sweet odors of aromatic shrubs and flowers, with a hint of
the pine-forests and balsam-thickets from the higher altitudes. Taking a breakfast solus, pocket-bible
in hand I bent my steps up the gorge, often crossing the brook that wound its way among the
thickets or sung its song at the foot of the great overhanging cliffs. A shining trout would
now and then flash like a silver bar for a moment above the shaded pools. With light step a
doe descending the mountain came upon me, and, gazing at me a moment or two with its soft eyes,
tripped away. In a narrow pass where the stream rippled over the pebbles between two great
walls of rock, a spotted snake crossed my path, hurrying its movement in fright. Fear not,
humble ophidian. The war declared between thee and me in the fifteenth verse of the third chapter
of Genesis is suspended for this one day. Let no creature die today but by the act of God.
Here is the lake. How beautiful! how still! A landslide had dammed the stream where it flowed
between steep, lofty banks, backing the waters over a little valley three or four acres in
extent, shut in on all sides by the wooded hills, the highest of which rose from its northern
margin. Here is my sanctuary, pulpit, choir, and altar. A gigantic pine had fallen into the
lake, and its larger branches served to keep the trunk above the water as it lay parallel with
the shore. Seated on its trunk, and shaded by some friendly willows that stretch their graceful
branches above, the hours pass in a sort of subdued ecstasy of enjoyment. It is peace, the
peace of God. No echo of the world's discords reaches me. The only sound I hear is the cooing
of a turtledove away off in a distant gorge of the mountain. It floats down to me on the Sabbath
air with a pathos as if it voiced the pity of Heaven for the sorrows of a world of sin, and
pain, and death. The shadows of the pines are reflected in the pellucid depths, and ever and
anon the faintest hint of a breeze sighs among their branches overhead. The lake lies without
a ripple below, except when from time to time a gleaming trout throws himself out of the water,
and, falling with a splash, disturbs the glassy surface, the concentric circles showing where
he went down. Sport on, ye shiny denizens of the deep; no angler shall cast his deceitful hook
into your quiet haunts this day. Through the foliage of the overhanging boughs the blue sky
is spread, a thin, fleecy cloud at times floating slowly along like a watching angel, and casting
a momentary shadow upon the watery mirror below. That sky, so deep and so solemn, woos me--lifts
my thought till it touches the Eternal. What mysteries of being lie beyond that sapphire sea?
What wonders shall burst upon the vision when this mortal shall put on immortality? I open
the Book and read. Isaiah's burning song makes new music to my soul attuned. David's harp sounds
a sweeter note. The words of Jesus stir to diviner depths. And when I read in the twenty-first
chapter of Revelation the Apocalyptic promise of the new heavens and the new earth, and of
the New Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven, a new glory seems to rest upon sky, mountain
forest, and lake, and my soul is flooded with a mighty joy. I am swimming in the Infinite Ocean.
Not beyond that vast blue canopy is heaven; it is within my own ravished heart! Thus the hours
pass, but I keep no note of their flight, and the evening shadows are on the water before I
come back to myself and the world. O hallowed day! O hallowed spot! foretaste and prophecy
to the weary and burden-bowed soul of the new heavens and the new earth where its blessed ideal
shall be a more blessed reality!

It is nearly dark when I get back to the hotel. Supper is over, but I am not hungry--I have
feasted on the bread of angels.

"Did you know there was quite a quarrel about you this morning?" asks one of the guests.

The words jar. In answer to my look of inquiry, he proceeds:

"There was a dispute about your holding a religious service at the picnic grounds. They made
it a political matter--one party threatened to leave if you did preach, the other threatened
to leave if you did not preach. There was quite an excitement about it until it was found that
you were gone, and then everybody quieted down."

There is a silence. I break it by telling them how I spent the day, and then they are very quiet.

The next Sabbath every soul at the place united in a request for a religious service, the list
headed by a high-spirited and brilliant Pennsylvania lady who had led the opposing forces the
previous Sunday.

Winter-Blossomed.

I think I saw him the first Sunday I preached in San Jose, in 1856. He was a notable-looking
man. I felt attracted toward him by that indefinable sympathy that draws together two souls
born to be friends. I believe in friendship at first sight. Who that ever had a real friend
does not? Love at first sight is a different thing--it may be divine and eternal, or it may
be a whim or a passing fancy. Passion blurs and blinds in the region of sexual love: friendship
is revealed in its own white light.

I was introduced after the service to the stranger who had attracted my attention, and who
had given the youthful preacher such a kind and courteous hearing.

"This is Major McCoy."

He was a full head higher than anybody else as he stood in the aisle. He bowed with courtly
grace as he took my hand, and his face lighted with a smile that had in it something more than
a conventional civility. I felt that there was a soul beneath that dignified and courtly exterior.
His head displayed great elevation of the cranium, and unusual breadth of forehead. It was
what is called an intellectual head; and the lines around the eyes showed the traces of thought,
and, as it seemed to me, a tinge of that sadness that nearly always lends its charm to the
best faces.

"I have met a man that I know I shall like," was my gratified exclamation to the mistress of
the parsonage, as I entered.

And so it turned out. He became one of the select circle to whom I applied the word friend
in the sacredest sense. This inner circle can never be large. If you unduly enlarge it you
dilute the quality of this wine of life. We are limited. There is only One Heart large enough
to hold all humanity in its inmost depths.

My new friend lived out among the sycamores on the New Almaden Road, a mile from the city,
and the cottage in which he lived with his cultured and loving household was one of the social
paradises of that beautiful valley in which the breezes are always cool, and the flowers never
fade.

My friend interested me more and more. He had been a soldier, and in the Mexican war won distinction
by his skill and valor. He was with Joe Lane and his gallant Indianians at Juamantla, and his
name was specially mentioned among those whose fiery onsets had broken the lines of the swarthy
foe, and won against such heavy odds the bloody field. He was seldom absent from church on
Sunday morning, and now and then his inquiring, thoughtful face would be seen in my smaller
audience at night. One unwelcome fact about him pained me, while it deepened my interest in him.

He was a skeptic. Bred to the profession of medicine and surgery, he became bogged in the depths
of materialistic doubt. The microscope drew his thoughts downward until he could not see beyond
second causes. The soul, the seat of which the scalpel could not find, he feared did not exist.
The action of the brain, like that of the heart and lungs, seemed to him to be functional;
and when the organ perished did not its function cease forever? He doubted the fact of immortality,
but did not deny it. This doubt clouded his life. He wanted to believe. His heart rebelled
against the negations of materialism, but his intellect was entangled in its meshes. The Great
Question was ever in his thought, and the shadow was ever on his path. He read much on both
sides, and was always ready to talk with any from whom he had reason to hope for new light
or a helpful suggestion. Did he also pray? We took many long rides and had many long talks
together. Pausing under the shade of a tree on the highway, the hours would slip away while
we talked of life and death, and weighed the pros and cons of the mighty hope that we might
live again, until the sun would be sinking into the sea behind the Santa Cruz Mountains, whose
shadows were creeping over the valley. He believed in a First Cause. The marks of design in
Nature left in his mind no room to doubt that there was a Designer.

"The structure and adaptations of the horse harnessed to the buggy in which we sit, exhibit
the infinite skill of a Creator."

On this basis I reasoned with him in behalf of all that is precious to Christian faith and
hope, trying to show (what I earnestly believe) that, admitting the existence of God, it is
illogical to stop short of a belief in revelation and immortality.

The rudest workman would not fling The fragments of his work away, If every useless bit of
clay He trod on were a sentient thing.

And does the Wisest Worker take Quick human hearts, instead of stone, And hew and carve them
one by one, Nor heed the pangs with which they break?

And more: if but creation's waste, Would he have given us sense to yearn For the perfection
none can earn, And hope the fuller life to taste?

I think, if we most cease to be, It is cruelty refined To make the instincts of our mind Stretch
out toward eternity.

Wherefore I welcome Nature's cry, As earnest of a life again, Where thought shall never be
in vain, And doubt before the light shall fly.

My talks with him were helpful to me if not to him. In trying to remove his doubts my own faith
was confirmed, and my range of thought enlarged. His reverent spirit left its impress upon mine.

"McCoy is a more religious man than either you or I, Doctor," said Tod Robinson to me one day
in reply to a remark in which I had given expression to my solicitude for my doubting friend.

Yes, strange as it may seem, this man who wrestled with doubts that wrung his soul with intense
agony, and walked in darkness under the veil of unbelief; had a healthful influence upon me
because the attitude of his soul was that of a reverent inquirer, not that of a scoffer.

The admirable little treatise of Bishop McIlvaine, on the "Evidences of Christianity," cleared
away some of his difficulties. A sermon of Bishop Kavanaugh, preached at his request, was a
help to him. (That wonderful discourse is spoken of elsewhere in this volume.)

A friend of his lay dying at Redwood City. This friend, like himself; was a skeptic, and his
doubts darkened his way as he neared the border of the undiscovered country. McCoy went to
see him. The sick man, in the freedom of long friendship, opened his mind to him. The arguments
of the good Bishop were yet fresh in McCoy's mind, and the echoes of his mighty appeals were
still sounding in his heart. Seated by the dying man, he forgot his own misgivings, and with
intense earnestness pointed the struggling soul to the Saviour of sinners.

"I did not intend it, but I was impelled by a feeling I could not resist. I was surprised and
strangely thrilled at my own words as I unfolded to my friend the proofs of the truth of Christianity,
culminating in the incarnation, death, and resurrection, of Jesus Christ. He seemed to have
grasped the truths as presented, a great calm came over him, and he died a believer. No incident
of my life has given me a purer pleasure than this; but it was a strange thing! Nobody could
have had access to him as I had--I, a doubter and a stumbler all my life; it looks like the
hand of God!"

His voice was low, and his eyes were wet as he finished the narration.

Yes, the hand of God was in it--it is in every good thing that takes place on earth. By the
bedside of a dying friend, the undercurrent of faith in his warily and noble heart swept away
for the time the obstructions that were in his thought, and bore him to the feet of the blessed,
pitying Christ, who never breaks a bruised reed. I think he had more light, and felt stronger
ever after.

Death twice entered his home-circle--once to convey a budding flower from the earth-home to
the skies, and again like a lightning-stroke laying young manhood low in a moment. The instinct
within him, stronger than doubt, turned his thought in those dark hours toward God. The ashes
of the earthly hopes that had perished in the fire of fierce calamity, and the tears of a grief
unspeakable, fertilized and watered the seed of faith which was surely in his heart. The hot
furnace-fire did not harden this finely-tempered soul. But still he walked in darkness, doubting,
doubting, doubting all he most wished to believe. It was the infirmity of his constitution,
and the result of his surroundings. He went into large business enterprises with mingled success
and disappointment. He went into politics, and though he bore himself nobly and gallantly,
it need not be said that that vortex does not usually draw those who are within its whirl heavenward.
He won some of the prizes that were fought for in that arena where the noblest are in danger
of being soiled, and where the baser metal sinks surely to the bottom by the inevitable force
of moral gravitation.

From time to time we were thrown together, and I was glad to know that the Great Question was
still in his thought, and the hunger for truth was still in his heart. Ill health sometimes
made him irritable and morbid, but the drift of his inner nature was unchanged. His mind was
enveloped in mists, and sometimes tempests of despair raged within him; but his heart still
thirsted for the water of life.

A painful and almost fatal railway accident befell him. He was taken to his ranch among the
quiet hills of Shasta County. This was the final crisis in his life. Shut out from the world,
and shut in with his own thoughts and with God, he reviewed his life and the argument that
had so long been going on in his mind. He was now quiet enough to hear distinctly the Still
Small Voice whose tones he could only half discern amid the clamors of the world when he was
a busy actor on its stage. Nature spoke to him among the hills, and her voice is God's. The
great primal instincts of the soul, repressed in the crowd or driven into the background by
the mob of petty cares and wants, now had free play in the nature of this man whose soul had
so long cried out of the depths for the living God. He prayed the simple prayer of trust at
which the gate flies open for the believing soul to enter into the peace of God. He was born
into the new life. The flower that had put forth its abortive buds for so many seasons, burst
into full bloom at last. With the mighty joy in his heart, and the light of the immortal hope
beaming upon him, he passed into the World of Certainties.

A Virginian in California.

"Hard at it, are you, uncle?"

"No, sah--I's workin' by de day, an' I an't a-hurtin' myself."

This answer was given with a jolly laugh as the old man leaned on his pick and looked at me.

"You looked so much like home-folks that I felt like speaking to you. Where are you from?"

"From Virginny, sah!" (pulling himself up to his full height as he spoke). "Where's you from,
Massa?"

"I was brought up partly in Virginia too?"

"Wbar'bouts, in Virginny?"

"Mostly in Lynchburg."

"Lynchburg! dat's whar I was fotched up. I belonged to de Widder Tate, dat lived on de New
London Road. Gib me yer han', Massa!"

He rushed up to the buggy, and taking my extended hand in his huge fist he shook it heartily,
grinning with delight.

This was Uncle Joe, a perfect specimen of the old Virginia "Uncle," who had found his way to
California in the early days. Yes, he was a perfect specimen--black as night, his lower limbs
crooked, arms long, hands and feet very large. His mouth was his most striking feature. It
was the orator's mouth in size, being larger than that of Henry Clay--in fact, it ran almost
literally from ear to ear. When he opened it fully, it was like lifting the lid of a box.

Uncle Joe and I became good friends at once. He honored my ministry with his presence on Sundays.
There was a touch of dandyism in him that then and there came out. Clad in a blue broadcloth
dress-coat of the olden cut, vest to match, tight-fitting pantaloons, stove-pipe hat, and yellow
kid gloves, he was a gorgeous object to behold. He knew it, and there was a pleasant self-consciousness
in the way he bore himself in the sanctuary.

Uncle Joe was the heartiest laugher I ever knew. He was always as full of happy life as a frisky
colt or a plump pig. When he entered a knot of idlers on the streets, it was the signal or
a humorous uproar. His quaint sayings, witty repartee, and contagious laughter, never failed.
He was as agile as a monkey, and his dancing was a marvel. For a dime he would "cut the pigeon
wing," or give a "double-shuffle" or "breakdown" in a way that made the beholder dizzy.

What was Uncle Joe's age nobody could guess--he had passed the line of probable surmising.
His own version of the matter on a certain occasion was curious. We had a colored female servant--an
old-fashioned aunty from Mississippi--who, with a bandanna handkerchief on her head, went about
the house singing the old Methodist choruses so naturally that it gave us a home-feeling to
have her about us. Uncle Joe and Aunt Tishy became good friends, and he got into the habit
of dropping in at the parsonage on Sunday evenings to escort her to church. On this particular
occasion I was in the little study adjoining the dining-room where Aunt Tishy was engaged in
cleaning away the dishes after tea. I was not eavesdropping, but could not help hearing what
they said. My name was mentioned.

"O yes," said Uncle Joe; "I knowed Massa Fitchjarals back dar in Virginny. I use ter hear 'im
preach dar when I was a boy."

There was a silence. Aunt Tishy couldn't swallow that. Uncle Joe's statement, if true, would
have made me more than a hundred years old, or brought him down to less than forty. The latter
was his object; he wanted to impress Aunt Tishy with the idea that he was young-enough to be
an eligible gallant to any lady. But it failed. That unfortunate remark ruined Uncle Joe's
prospects: Aunt Tishy positively refused to go with him to church, and just as soon as he had
left she went into the sitting-room in high disgust, saying:

"What made dat nigger tell me a lie like dat? Tut, tut, tut!"

She cut him ever after, saying she would n't keep company with a liar, "even if he was from
de Souf." Aunt Tishy was a good woman, and had some old-time notions. As a cook, she was discounted
a little by the fact that she used tobacco, and when it got into the gravy it was not improving
to its flavor.

Uncle Joe was in his glory at a dinner-party, where he could wait on the guests, give droll
answers to the remarks made to call him out, and enliven the feast by his inimitable and "catching"
laugh. In a certain circle no occasion of the sort was considered complete without his presence
There was no such thing as dullness when he was about. His peculiar wit or his simplicity was
brought out at a dinner-party one day at Dr. Bascom's. There was a large gathering of the leading
families of San Jose and vicinity, and Uncle Joe was there in his jolliest mood. Mrs. Bascom,
whose wit was then the quickest and keenest in all California, presided, and enough good things
were said to have made a reputation for Sidney Smith or Douglas Jerrold. Mrs. Bascom, herself
a Virginian by extraction, had engaged in a laughing colloquy with Uncle Joe, who stood near
the head of the table waving a bunch of peacock's feathers to keep off the flies.

"Missus, who is yer kinfolks back dar in Virginny, any way?"

The names of several were mentioned.

"Why, dem's big folks," said Uncle Joe.

"Yes," said she, laughingly; "I belong to the first families of Virginia."

"I don't know 'bout dat, Missus. I was dar 'fore you was, an' I don't 'long to de fus' families!"

He looked at it from a chronological rather than a genealogical standpoint, and, strange to
say, the familiar phrase had never been heard by him before.

Uncle Joe joined the Church. He was sincere in his profession. The proof was found in the fact
that he quit dancing. No more "pigeon wings," "double-shuffles," or "breakdowns," for him--he
was a "perfessor." He was often tempted by the offer of coin, but he stood firm.

"No, sah; I's done dancin', an' don't want to be discommunicated from de Church," he would
say, good-naturedly, as he shied off, taking himself away from temptation.

A very high degree of spirituality could hardly be expected from Uncle Joe at that late day;
but he was a Christian after a pattern of his own --kind-hearted, grateful, simple-minded,
and full of good humor. His strength gradually declined, and he was taken to the county hospital,
where his patience and cheerfulness conciliated and elicited kind treatment from everybody.
His memories went back to old Virginia, and his hopes looked up to the heaven of which his
notions were as simple as those of a little child. In the simplicity of a child's faith he
had come to Jesus, and I doubt not was numbered among his little ones. Among the innumerable
company that shall be gathered on Mount Zion from every kindred, tribe, and tongue, I hope
to meet my humble friend, Uncle Joe.

At the End.

Among my acquaintances at San Jose, in 1863, was a young Kentuckian who had come down from
the mines in bad health. The exposure of mining-life had been too severe for him. It took iron
constitutions to stand all day in almost ice-cold water up to the waist with a hot sun pouring
down its burning rays upon the head and upper part of the body. Many a poor fellow sunk under
it at once, and after a few days of fever and delirium was taken to the top of an adjacent
hill and laid to rest by the hands of strangers. Others, crippled by rheumatic and neuralgic
troubles, drifted into the hospitals of San Francisco, or turned their faces sadly toward the
old homes which they had left with buoyant hopes and elastic footsteps. Others still, like
this young Kentuckian, came down into the valleys with the hacking cough and hectic flush to
make a vain struggle against the destroyer that had fastened upon their vitals, nursing often
a vain hope of recovery to the very last. Ah, remorseless flatterer! as I write these lines,
the images of your victims crowd before my vision: the strong men that grew weak, and pale,
and thin, but fought to the last inch for life; the noble youths who were blighted just as
they began to bloom; the beautiful maidens etherealized into almost more than mortal beauty
by the breath of the death-angel, as autumn leaves, touched by the breath of winter, blush
with the beauty of decay. My young friend indulged no false hopes. He knew he was doomed to
early death, and did not shrink from the thought. One day, as we were conversing in a store
uptown, he said:

"I know that I have at most but a few months to live, and I want to spend them in making preparation
to die. You will oblige me by advising me what books to read. I want to get clear views of
what I am to do, and then do it."

It need scarcely be said that I most readily complied with his request, and that first and
chiefly I advised him to consult the Bible, as the light to his path and the lamp to his feet.
Other books were suggested, and a word with regard to prayerful reading was given, and kindly
received.

One day I went over to see my friend. Entering his room, I found him sitting by the fire with
it table by his side, on which was lying a Bible. There was an unusual flush in his face, and
his eye burned with unusual brightness.

"How are you today?" I asked.

"I am annoyed, sir--I am indignant," he said.

"What is the matter?"

"Mr. ----, the--preacher, has just left me. He told me that my soul cannot be saved unless
I perform two miracles: I must, he said, think of nothing but religion, and be baptized by
immersion. I am very weak, and cannot fully control my mental action--my thoughts will wander
in spite of myself. As to being put under the water, that would be immediate death; it would
bring on a hemorrhage of the lungs, and kill me."

He leaned his head on the table and panted for breath, his thin chest heaving. I answered:

"Mr.--is a good man, but narrow. He meant kindly in the foolish words he spoke to you. No man,
sick or well, can so control the action of his mind as to force his thoughts wholly into one
channel. I cannot do it, neither can any other man. God requires no such absurdity of you or
anybody else. As to being immersed, that seems to be a physical impossibility, and he surely
does not demand what is impossible. My friend, it really makes little difference what Mr.--says,or
what I say, concerning this matter. What does God say? Let us see."

I took up the Bible, and he turned a face upon me expressing the most eager interest. The blessed
Book seemed to open of itself to the very words that were wanted. "Ho, everyone that thirsteth,
come to the waters."

Glancing at him as I read, I was struck with the intensity of his look as he drank in every
word. A traveler dying of thirst in the desert could not clutch a cup of cold water more eagerly
than he grasped these tender words of the pitying Father in heaven.

"This is what God says to you, and these are the only conditions of acceptance. Nothing is
said about any thing but the desire of your heart and the purpose of your soul. O my friend,
these words are for you!"

The great truth flashed upon his mind, and flooded it with light. He bent his head and wept.
We knelt and prayed together, and when we rose from our knees he said softly, as the tears
stole, down his face:

"It is all right now--I see it clearly; I see it clearly!"

We quietly clasped hands, and sat in silent sympathy. There was no need for any words from
me; God had spoken, and that was enough. Our hearts were singing together the song without words.

"You have found peace at the cross--let nothing disturb it," I said, as he pressed my hand
at the door as we left.

It never was disturbed. The days that had dragged so wearily and anxiously during the long,
long months, were now full of brightness. A subdued joy shone in his face, and his voice was
low and tender as he spoke of the blessed change that had passed upon him. The Book whose words
had been light and life to him was often in his hand, or lay open on the little table in his
room. He never lost his hold upon the great truth he had grasped, nor abated in the fullness
of his joy. I was with him the night he died. He knew the end was at hand, and the thought
filled him with solemn joy. His eyes kindled, and his wasted features fairly blazed with rapture
as he said, holding my hand with both of his:

"I am glad it will all soon, be over. My peace has been unbroken since that morning when God
sent you to me. I feel a strange, solemn joy a the thought that I shall soon know all."

Before daybreak the great mystery was disclosed to him, and as he lay in his coffin next day,
the smile that lingered on his lips suggested the thought that he had caught a hint of the
secret while yet in the body.

Among the casual hearers that now and then dropped in to hear a sermon in Sonora, in the early
days of my ministry there, was a man who interested me particularly. He was at that time editing
one of the papers of the town, which sparkled with the flashes of his versatile genius. He
was a true Bohemian, who had seen many countries, and knew life in almost all its phases. He
had written a book of adventure which found many readers and admirers. An avowed skeptic, he
was yet respectful in his allusions to sacred things, and I am sure his editorial notices of
the pulpit efforts of a certain young preacher who had much to learn were more than just. He
was a brilliant talker, with a vein of enthusiasm that was very delightful. His spirit was
generous and frank, and I never heard from his lips an unkind word concerning any human being.
Even his partisan editorials were free from the least tinge of asperity--and this is a supreme
test of a sweet and courteous nature. In our talks he studiously evaded the one subject most
interesting to me. With gentle and delicate skill he parried all my attempts to introduce the
subject of religion in our conversations.

"I can't agree with you on that subject, and we will let it pass" he would say, with a smile,
and then he would start some other topic, and rattle on delightfully in his easy, rapid way.

He could not stay long at a place, being a confirmed wanderer. He left Sonora, and I lost sight
of him. Retaining. a very kindly feeling for this gentle-spirited and pleasant adventurer,
I was loth thus to lose all trace of him. Meeting a friend one day, on J Street, in the city
of Sacramento, he said:

"Your old friend D--is at the Golden Eagle hotel. You ought to go and see him."

I went at once. Ascending to the third story, I found his room, and, knocking at the door,
a feeble voice bade me enter. I was shocked at the spectacle that met my gaze. Propped in an
armchair in the middle of the room, wasted to a skeleton, and of a ghastly pallor, sat the
unhappy man. His eyes gleamed with an unnatural brightness, and his features wore a look of
intense suffering.

"You have come too late, sir," he said, before I had time to say a word. "You can do me no
good now. I have been sitting in this chair three weeks. I could not live a minute in any other
position, Hell could not be worse than the tortures I have suffered! I thank you for coming
to see me, but you can do me no good--none, none!"

He paused, panting for breath; and then he continued, in a soliloquizing way:

"I played the fool, making a joke of what was no joking matter. It is too late. I can neither
think nor pray, if praying would do any good. I can only suffer, suffer, suffer!"

The painful interview soon ended. To every cheerful or hopeful suggestion which I made he gave
but the one reply:

"Too late!"

The unspeakable anguish of his look, as his eyes followed me to the door, haunted me for many
a day, and the echo of his words, "Too late!" lingered sadly upon my ear. When I saw the announcement
of his death, a few days afterward, I asked myself the solemn question, Whether I had dealt
faithfully with this lighthearted, gifted man when he was within my reach. His last rook is
before me now, as I pencil these lines.

"John A--is dying over on the Portrero, and his family wants you to go over and see him."

It was while I was pastor in San Francisco. A--was a member of my Church, and lived on what
was called the Portrero, in the southern part of the city, beyond the Long Bridge. It was after
night when I reached the little cottage on the slope above the bay.

"He is dying and delirious," said a member of the family, as I entered the room where the sick
man lay. His wife, a woman of peculiar traits and great religious fervor, and a large number
of children and grandchildren, were gathered in the dying man's chamber and the adjoining rooms.
The sick man--a man of large and powerful frame--was restlessly tossing and roving his limbs,
muttering incoherent words, with now and then a burst of uncanny laughter. When shaken, he
would open his eyes for an instant, make some meaningless ejaculation, and then they would
close again. The wife was very anxious that he should have a lucid interval while I was there.

"O I cannot bear to have him die without a word of farewell and comfort!" she said, weeping.

The hours wore on, and the dying man's pulse showed that he was sinking steadily. Still he
lay unconscious, moaning and gibbering, tossing from side to side as far as his failing strength
permitted. His wife would stand and gaze at him a few moments, and then walk the floor in agony.

"He can't last much longer," said a visitor, who felt his pulse and found it almost gone, while
his breathing became more labored. We waited in silence. A thought seemed to strike the wife.
Without saying a word, she climbed upon the bed, took her dying husband's head upon her lap,
and, bending close above his face, began to sing. It was a melody I had never heard before--low,
and sweet, and quaint. The effect was weird and thrilling as the notes fell tremulous from
the singer's lips in the hush of that dead hour of the night. Presently the dying man became
more quiet, and before the song was finished he opened his eyes as a smile swept over his face,
and as his glance fell on me I saw that he knew me. He called my name, and looked up in the
face that bent above his own, and kissed it.

"Thank God!" his wife exclaimed, her hot tears falling on his face, that wore a look of strange
serenity. Then she half whispered to me, her face beaming with a softened light:

"That old song was one we used to sing together when we were first married in Baltimore."

On the stream of music and memory he had floated back to consciousness, called by the love
whose instinct is deeper and truer than all the science and philosophy in the world.

At dawn he died, his mind clear, and the voice of prayer in his ears, and a look of rapture
in his face.

Dan W--, whom I had known in the mines in the early days, had come to San Jose about the time
my pastorate in the place began. He kept a meat-market, and was a most genial, accommodating,
and good-natured fellow. Everybody liked him, and he seemed to like everybody. His animal spirits
were unfailing, and his face never revealed the least trace of worry or care. He "took things
easy," and never quarreled with his luck. Such men are always popular, and Dan was a general
favorite, as the generous and honest fellow deserved to be. Hearing that he was very sick,
I went to see him. I found him very low, but he greeted me with a smile.

"How are you today, Dan?" I asked, in the offhand way of the old times.

"It is all up with me, I guess," he replied, pausing to get breath between the words; "the
doctor says I can't get out of this--I must leave in a day or two."

He spoke in a matter-of-fact way, indicating that he intended to take death, as he had taken
life, easy.

"How do you feel about changing worlds, my old friend?"

"I have no say in the matter. I have got to go, and that is all there is of it."

That was all I ever got out of him. He told me he had not been to church for ten years, as
"it was not in his line." He did not understand matters of that sort, he said, as his business
was running a meat-market. He intended no disrespect to me or to sacred things--this was his
way of putting the matter in his simple-heartedness.

"Shall I kneel here and pray with you?" I asked.

"No; you needn't take the trouble, parson," he said, gently; "you see I've got to go, and that's
all there is of it. I don't understand that sort of thing--it's not in my, line, you see. I've
been in the meat business."

"Excuse me, my old friend, if I ask if you do not, as a dying man, have some thoughts about
God and eternity?"

"That's not in my line, and I couldn't do much thinking now any way. It's all right, parson--I've
got to go, and Old Master will do right about it."

Thus he died without a prayer, and without a fear, and his case is left to the theologians
who can understand it, and to the "Old Master" who will do right.

I was called to see a lady who was dying at North Beach, San Francisco. Her history was a singularly
sad one, illustrating the ups and downs of California life in a startling manner. From opulence
to poverty, and from poverty to sorrow, and from sorrow to death--these were the acts in the
drama, and the curtain was about to fall on the last. On a previous visit I had pointed the
poor sufferer to the Lamb of God, and prayed at her bedside, leaving her calm and tearful.
Her only daughter, a sweet, fresh girl of eighteen, had two years ago betrothed herself to
a young man from Oregon, who had come to San Francisco to study a profession. The dying mother
had expressed a desire to see them married before her death, and I had been sent for to perform
the ceremony.

"She is unconscious, poor thing!" said a lady who was in attendance, "and she will fail of
her dearest wish."

The dying mother lay with a flushed face, breathing painfully, with closed eyes, and moaning
piteously. Suddenly her eyes opened, and she glanced inquiringly around the room. They understood
her. The daughter and her betrothed were sent for. The mother's face brightened as they entered,
and she turned to me and said, in a faint voice:

"Go on with the ceremony, or it will be too late for me. God bless you, darling!" she added
as the daughter bent down sobbing, and kissed her.

The bridal couple kneeled together by the bed of death, and the assembled friends stood around
in solemn silence, while the beautiful formula of the Church was repeated, the dying mother's
eyes resting upon the kneeling daughter with an expression of unutterable tenderness. When
the vows were taken that made them one, and their hands were clasped in token of plighted faith,
she drew them both to her in a long embrace, and then almost instantly closed her eyes with
a look of infinite restfulness, and never opened them again.

Of the notable men I met in the mines in the early days, there was one who piqued and puzzled
my curiosity. He had the face of a saint with the habits of a debauchee. His pale and student-like
features were of the most classic mold, and their expression singularly winning, save when
at times a cynical sneer would suddenly flash over them like a cloud-shadow over a quiet landscape.
He was a lawyer, and stood at the head of the bar. He was an orator whose silver voice and
magnetic qualities often kindled the largest audiences into the wildest enthusiasm. Nature
had denied him no gift of body or mind requisite to success in life; but there was a fatal
weakness in his moral constitution. He was an inveterate gambler, his large professional earnings
going into the coffers of the faro and monte dealers. His violations of good morals in other
respects were flagrant. He worked hard by day, and gave himself up to his vices at night. Public
opinion was not very exacting in those days, and his failings were condoned by a people who
respected force and pluck, and made no close inquiries into a man's private life, because it
would have been no easy thing to find one who, on the score of innocence, was entitled to cast
the first stone. Thus he lived from year to year, increasing his reputation as a lawyer of
marked ability, and as a politician whose eloquence in every campaign was a tower of strength
to his party. His fame spread until it filled the State, and his money still fed his vices.
He never drank, and that cool, keen intellect never lost its balance, or failed him in any
encounter on the hustings on at the bar. I often met him in public, but he never was known
to go inside a church. Once, when in a street conversation I casually made some reference to
religion, a look of displeasure passed over his face, and he abruptly left me. I was agreeably
surprised when, on more than one occasion, he sent me a substantial token of goodwill, but
I was never able to analyze the motive that prompted him to do so. This remembrance softens
the feelings with which these lines are penciled. He went to San Francisco, but there was no
change in his life.

"It is the old story," said an acquaintance of whom I made inquiry concerning him: "he has
a large and lucrative practice, and the gamblers get all he makes. He is getting gray, and
he is failing a little. He is a strange being."

It happened afterward that his office and mine were in the same building and on the same floor.
As we met on the stairs, he would nod to me and pass on. I noticed that he was indeed "failing."
He looked-weary and sad, and the cold or defiant gleam in his steel-gray eyes, was changed
into a wistful and painful expression that was very pathetic. I did not dare to invade his
reserve with any tender of sympathy. Joyless and hopeless as he might be, I felt instinctively
that he would play out his drama alone. Perhaps this was a mistake on my part: he may have
been hungry for the word I did not speak. God knows. I was not lacking in proper interest in
his well-being, but I have since thought in such cases it is safest to speak.

"What has become of B--?" said my landlord one day as we met in the hall. "I have been here
to see him several times, and found his door locked, and his letters and newspapers have not
been touched. There is something the matter, I fear."

Instantly I felt somehow that there was a tragedy in the air, and I had a strange feeling of
awe as I passed the door of B--'s room.,

A policeman was brought, the lock forced, and we went in. A sickening odor of chloroform filled
the room. The sight that met our gaze made us shudder. Across the bed was lying the form of
a man partly dressed, his head thrown back, his eyes staring upward, his limbs hanging loosely
over the bedside.

"Is he dead?" was asked in a whisper.

"No," said the officer, with his finger on B--'s wrist; "he is not dead yet, but he will never
wake out of this. He has been lying thus two or three days."

A physician was sent for, and all possible efforts made to rouse him, but in vain. About sunset
the pulse ceased to beat, and it was only a lump of lifeless clay that lay there so still and
stark. This was his death--the mystery of his life went back beyond my knowledge of him, and
will only be known at the judgment-day.

One of the gayest and brightest of all the young people gathered at a May-day picnic, just
across the bay from San Francisco, was Ada D--. The only daughter of a wealthy citizen, living
in one of the lovely valleys beyond the coast-range of mountains, beautiful in person and sunny
in temper, she was a favorite in all the circle of her associations. Though a petted child
of fortune, she was not spoiled, Envy itself was changed into affection in the presence of
a spirit so gentle, unassuming, and loving. She had recently been graduated from one of the
best schools, and her graces of character matched the brilliance of her pecuniary fortune.

A few days after the May-day festival, as I was sitting in my office, a little before sunset,
there was a knock at the door, and before I could answer the messenger entered hastily, saying:

"I want you to go with me at once to Amador Valley. Ada D--is dying, and wishes to be baptized.
We just have time for the six o'clock boat to take us across the bay, where the carriage and
horses are waiting for us. The distance is thirty miles, and we must run a race against death."

We started at once: no minister of Jesus Christ hesitates to obey a summons like that. We reached
the boat while the last taps of the last bell were being given, and were soon at the landing
on the opposite side of the bay. Springing ashore, we entered the vehicle which was in readiness.
Grasping the reins, my companion touched up the spirited team, and we struck across the valley.
My driver was an old Californian, skilled in all horse craft and road-craft. He spoke no word,
putting his soul and body into his work, determined, as he had said, to make the thirty miles
by nine o'clock. There was no abatement of speed after we struck the hills: what was lost in
going up was regained in going down. The mettle of those California-bred horses was wonderful;
the quick beating of their hoofs upon the graveled road was as regular as the motion of machinery,
steam-driven. It was an exciting ride, and there was a weirdness in the sound of the night-breeze
floating by us, and ghostly, shapes seemed looking at us from above and below, as we wound
our way through the hills, while the bright stars shone like funeral-tapers over a world of
death. Death! how vivid and awful was its reality to me as I looked up at those shining worlds
on high, and then upon the earth wrapped in darkness below! Death! his sable coursers are swift,
and we may be too late! The driver shared my thoughts, and lashed the panting horses to yet
greater speed. My pulses beat rapidly as I counted the moments.

"Here we are!" he exclaimed, as we dashed down the hill and brought up at the gate. "It is
eight minutes to nine," he added, glancing at his watch by the light of a lamp shining through
the window.

"She is alive, but speechless, and going fast," said the father, in a broken voice, as I entered
the house.

He led me to the chamber of the dying girl; The seal of death was upon her. I bent above her,
and a look of recognition came into her eyes. Not a moment was to be lost.

"If you know me, my child, and can enter the meaning of what I say, indicate the fact if you can."

There was a faint smile and a slight but significant inclination of the fair head as it lay
enveloped with its wealth of chestnut curls. With her hands folded on her breast, and her eyes
turned upward, the dying girl lay in listening attitude, while in a few words I explained the
meaning of the sacred rite and pointed her to the Lamb of God as the one sacrifice for sin.
The family stood round the bed in awed and tearful silence. As the crystal sacramental drops
fell upon her brow a smile flashed quickly over the pale face, there was a slight movement
of the head--and she was gone! The upward look continued, and the smile never left the fair,
sweet face. We fell upon our knees, and the prayer that followed was not for her, but for the
bleeding hearts around the couch where she lay smiling in death.

Dave Douglass was one of that circle of Tennesseans who took prominent parts in the early history
of California. He belonged to the Sumner County Douglasses, of Tennessee, and had the family
warmth of heart, impulsiveness, and courage, that nothing could daunt. In all the political
contests of the early days he took an active part, and was regarded as an unflinching and unselfish
partisan by his own party, and as an openhearted and generous antagonist by the other. He was
elected Secretary of State, and served the people with fidelity and efficiency. He was a man
of a powerful physical frame, deep-chested, ruddy-, faced, blue-eyed, with just enough shagginess
of eyebrows and heaviness of the under-jaw to indicate the indomitable pluck which was so strong
an element in his character. He was a true Douglass, as brave and true as any of the name that
ever wore the kilt or swung a claymore in the land of Bruce. His was a famous Methodist family
in Tennessee, and though he knew more of politics than piety, he was a good friend to the Church,
and had regular preaching in the schoolhouse near his farm on the Calaveras River. All the
itinerants that traveled that circuit knew "Douglass's Schoolhouse" as an appointment, and
shared liberally in the hospitality and purse of the General--(that was his title).

"Never give up the fight!" he said to me, with flashing eye, the last time I met him in Stockton,
pressing my hand with a warm clasp. It was while I was engaged in the effort to build a church
in that place, and I had been telling him of the difficulties I had met in the work. That word
and handclasp helped me.

He was taken sick soon after. The disease had taken too strong a grasp upon him to be broken.
He fought bravely a losing battle for several days. Sunday morning came, a bright, balmy day.
It was in the early summer. The cloudless sky was deep-blue, the sunbeams sparkled on the bosom
of the Calaveras, the birds were singing in the trees, and the perfume of the flowers filled
the air and floated in through the open window to where the strong man lay dying. He had been
affected with the delirium of fever during most of his sickness, but that was past, and he
was facing death with an unclouded mind.

"I think I am dying," he said, half inquiringly.

"Yes--is there any thing we can do for you?"

His eyes closed for a few moments, and his lips moved as if in mental prayer. Opening his eyes,
he said:

"Sing one of the old camp-meeting songs."

A preacher present struck up the hymn, "Show pity, Lord, O Lord Forgive."

The dying man, composed to rest, lay with folded hands and listened with shortening breath
and a rapt face, and thus he died, the words and the melody that had touched his boyish heart
among the far-off hills of Tennessee being the last sounds that fell upon his dying ear. We
may hope that on that old camp-meeting song was wafted the prayer and trust of a penitent soul
receiving the kingdom of heaven as a little child.

During my pastorate at Santa Rosa, one of my occasional hearers was John I--. He was deputy-sheriff
of Sonoma County, and was noted for his quiet and determined courage. He was a man of few words,
but the most reckless desperado knew that he could not be trifled with. When there was an arrest
to be made that involved special peril, this reticent, low-voiced man was usually intrusted
with the undertaking. He was of the good old Primitive Baptist stock from Caswell County, North
Carolina, and had a lingering fondness for the peculiar views of that people. He had a weakness
for strong drink that gave him trouble at times, but nobody doubted his integrity any more
than they doubted his courage. His wife was an earnest Methodist, one of a family of sisters
remarkable for their excellent sense and strong religious characters. Meeting him one day,
just before my return to San Francisco, he said, with a warmth of manner not common with him:

"I am sorry you are going to leave Santa Rosa. You understand me, and if anybody can do me
any good, you are the man."

There was a tremor in his voice as he spoke, and he held my hand in a lingering grasp.

Yes, I knew him. I had seen him at church on more than one occasion with compressed lips struggling
to conceal the strong emotion he felt, sometimes hastily wiping away an unbidden tear. The
preacher, when his own soul is aglow and his sympathies all awakened and drawn out toward his
hearers, is almost clairvoyant at times in his perception of their inner thoughts. I understood
this man, though no disclosure had been made to me in words. I read his eye, and marked the
wishful and anxious look that came over his face when his conscience was touched and his heart
moved. Yes, I knew him, for my sympathy had made me responsive, and his words, spoken sadly,
thrilled me, and rolled upon my spirit the burden of a soul. His health, which had been broken
by hardships and careless living, began to decline more rapidly. I heard that he had expressed
a desire to see me, and made no delay in going to see him. I found him in bed, and much wasted.

"I am glad you have come. I have been wanting to see you," he said, taking my hand. "I have
been thinking of my duty to God for a good while, and have felt more than anybody has suspected.
I want to do what I can and ought to do. You have made this matter a study, and you ought to
understand it. I want you to help me."

We had many interviews, and I did what I could to guide a penitent sinner to the sinner's Friend.
He was indeed a penitent sinner--shut out from the world and shut in with God, the merciful
Father was speaking to his soul, and all its depths were stirred. The patient, praying wife
had a wishful look in her eyes as I came out of his room, and I knew her thought. God was leading
him, and he was receptive of the truth that saves. He had one difficulty.

"I hate meanness, or any thing that looks like it. It does look mean for me to turn to religion
now that I am sick, after being so neglectful and wicked when I was well."

"That thought is natural to a manly soul, but there is a snare in it. You are thinking what
others may say, and your pride is touched. You are dealing with God only. Ask only what will
please him. The time for a man to do his duty is when he sees it and feels the obligation.
Let the past go--you cannot undo it, but it may be forgiven. The present and an eternal future
are yours, my friend.

"Do what will please God, and all will be right."

The still waters were reached, and his soul lay at rest in the arms of God. O sweet, sweet
rest! infinitely sweet to the spirit long tossed upon the stormy sea of sin and remorse. O
peace of God, the inflow into a human heart of the very life of the Lord! It is the hidden
mystery of love divine whispered to the listening ear of faith. It had come to him by its own
law when he was ready to receive it. The great change had come to him--it looked out from his
eyes and beamed from his face.

He was baptized at night. The family had gathered in the room. In the solemn hush of the occasion
the whispers of the night-breeze could be heard among the vines and flowers outside, and the
rippling of the sparkling waters of Santa Rosa Creek was audible. The sick man's face was luminous
with the light that was from within. The solemn rite was finished, a tender and holy awe filled
the room; it was the house of God and the gate of heaven. The wife, who was sitting near a
window, rose, and noiselessly stepped to the bed, and without a word printed a kiss on her
husband's forehead, while the joy that flushed her features told that the prayer of thirty
years had been answered, We sung a hymn and parted with tears of silent joy. In a little while
he crossed the river where we may mingle our voices again by and by. There is not money enough
in the California hills to buy the memory of that visit to Santa Rosa.

