FROM JUNGLE TO JAVA

  THE TRIVIAL IMPRESSIONS OF A
  SHORT EXCURSION TO NETHERLANDS INDIA.

  BY ARTHUR KEYSER,

  AUTHOR OF
  "OUR CRUISE IN NEW GUINEA," "CUT BY THE MESS,"
  "AN EXILE'S ROMANCE," ETC., ETC.

  [Publisher's Logo]

  THE
  ROXBURGHE PRESS,
  LIMITED,
  FIFTEEN, VICTORIA STREET,
  WESTMINSTER.

  CONTENTS

      I. A SELECT COMMUNITY                 1

     II. THE START                          7

    III. SINGAPORE                         14

     IV. ON THE WAY TO JAVA                19

      V. BATAVIA                           23

     VI. AN OFFICIAL CALL                  34

    VII. A CONCERT AT THE CONCORDIA CLUB   39

   VIII. CONCERNING THE LOMBOH WAR         44

     IX. BUITENZORG                        49

      X. CUSTOMS AND COSTUMES              56

     XI. AN UNTIMELY CALL                  62

    XII. A MODEL ESTATE                    66

   XIII. AMONG THE ROSES                   76

    XIV. GARVET                            84

     XV. BATHS AND VOLCANOES               89

    XVI. THE QUEST FOR A MOTHER            94

   XVII. THE QUEST CONTINUED. TJILATJAP    99

  XVIII. THE QUEST SUCCESSFUL. THE
           WODENA'S HOUSE                 109

    XIX. A VILLAGE HOME IN JAVA           115

     XX. BACK TO THE JUNGLE               120

FROM JUNGLE TO JAVA

CHAPTER I.

A SELECT COMMUNITY.

Mr. X., whose impressions and mild adventures I have undertaken the task of editing, has asked
me to narrow his personal introduction to such limits as is consistent with the courtesy due
to my readers, if haply I find any. He prefers, as his pseudonym implies, to remain an unknown
quantity. I need only explain that he is an officer employed in one of the small States of
the Malay Peninsula, which are (very much) under the protection of the Colonial Government
of the Straits Settlements. The latter, with careful forethought for their ease-loving rulers,
appoints officers to relieve them of all the cares and duties of administration, and absolves
them from the responsibility of a Government somewhat more progressive in its policy than might
commend itself to Oriental ideas, if left without such outside assistance.

As the title intimates, Mr. X.'s duties compel him to make his home in the jungle. The word
has many significations in the East, where it is often used to express a region remote from
civilization, although perhaps consisting of barren mountains or treeless plains. Mr. X.'s
jungle, however, is one realizing what it represents to the untravelled Englishman. It is a
land of hill and dale covered with thickly growing forest trees, with here and there by the
side of the rivers, which are Nature's thoroughfares, or the main roads made by man, small
oases of cultivation. It is a beautiful country, with a climate which those who live in it--and
they are the best witnesses--declare to be healthy and agreeable. And the members of the small
community who form the European population take a personal pride in the amenities of their
beautiful retreat, with its perennial verdure, and glory in their "splendid isolation." Criticisms
are resented, and suggestions of indisposition due to climatic influence held to be little
short of traitorous. So, as may be imagined, it was a matter of no ordinary interest when X.
not only complained of being unwell, but also developed signs of a chronic discontent. For
X.--no Mr. was necessary in that little round-table club--certainly was unwell. Of this there
could be no doubt, and such a condition of body was little short of an abuse of the privileges
of the place. But since he could give no real explanation of his feelings, and only sighed
vaguely when engaged in the daily preprandial game of billiards at the club, it was thought
best to ignore his new departure, and to leave the subject severely alone.

However, the effect of this wise treatment was entirely ruined by the arrival of the doctor,
who bore the sounding official designation of the Residency surgeon. This gentleman was wont
to be sceptical in the matter of ailments, limiting his recognition only to honest, downright
illness worthy of the attention of a medico whose name stood in front of a formidable array
of honourable letters, too numerous for him to mention. But even really great people are not
always strictly consistent, and occasionally make small lapses from the straight path of precedent--and
so this man of science deigned to cast an eye of interest upon the ailment of X. That it should
be worthy of notice at all was enough for the companions of the now much-appreciated invalid,
but when the great man added to his notice by bestowing a classical name, expressions of sympathy
knew no bounds, and the unwonted solicitude was almost more than the sufferer could bear with
the dignified attitude of conscious merit fitting to the occasion. Something rather distingué
had happened to the place, something quite new. A vulgar complaint was a subject for reprobation
and not sympathy, as casting discredit on this salubrious retreat, but a malady composed of
two words out of the Greek Lexicon conferred a distinction perhaps unknown to, and to be envied
by, the larger communities beyond the pass. The matter was most seriously discussed, and the
decision arrived at that X. wanted a change. Not exactly that a change would do him good, but
because, when he came back, the change, from the place he went to, to his happy home in Pura
Pura, would work wonders for his health. As the doctor endorsed the former part of the verdict,
rather modifying it by suggesting, that there were few conditions of health when a change would
not be beneficial to a hard-worked official, there remained nothing but to select the spot
to which X.--his leave once granted--must go. It would never, of course, do that he should
go to Penang, or even to Hong Kong or Japan, such an expedition would be too ordinary and commonplace.
It was felt that X. should do something worthy of the occasion, and show his appreciation of
the place he lived in by going to one as similar in respect of people and scenery as could
be found, and so, when the person chiefly concerned, knowing what was expected of him, suggested
Java, the idea was accepted, and Java it was settled to be. And that night at the Club there
was a long sitting, and Manop, the patient barman, had to record the disappearance of many
extra "stengahs,"[1] as the matter was discussed in all its bearings. Those of the community
who had been to Java recalled their experiences and recollections of that country, rather to
the annoyance of those others whose travels, though perhaps more extended, had not led them
in the same direction, and thus had to accept the unwelcome rôle of silent listeners. However,
goaded by long endurance, one of the party, the scene of whose stories mostly lay in the Antipodes,
remarked that certainly when X. returned from Java he must write a book about it, because if
he had only half as much to communicate as the present speakers, the book would be full of
information. This little sarcasm was entirely spoilt by being taken literally, as it was at
once decided that X. must write a book. Vainly he protested that it would be impossible to
write a book after only a brief visit to a place, as he could only put into it what was already
known to others; his objections were over-ruled, and he was reminded that only the other day,
when H. E., the Governor, progressed (which is the official rendering of travelled) through
a neighbouring State (known to those present only too painfully well, through many weary days
spent in the jungles while exploring and actually constructing the path over which this "progress"
was subsequently made), one of the party wrote a book which announced the discovery of a newly
found place, and even went so far as to sniff severely at the presumption of those who had
undergone these early days of toil, because certain grateful pioneers had named various landmarks
after friends who had assisted them in the first months of settlement. "If that State, which
we know so well, was discovered so recently," urged one of the speakers, "why not discover
Java?" "And as for a fortnight being too brief a time," suggested another--"did the Progress
take longer?" And thus, it being an unwritten law in Pura Pura that the wishes of the community
should be respected, X. having now returned from leave, has commissioned a chronicler to write
about what he saw in Java, though it would be an easier task were the latter allowed to write
about the community. But that must not be--at any rate now. Java is the theme--that, and no other.

    [Footnote 1: Local name for "peg."]

CHAPTER II.

THE START.

In the few days which elapsed before the due arrival of official permission for X. to leave
the jungle, it might have been observed that he was changed. The hitherto sedate individual
became fussy and worried, and members of The Community agreed that he was "journey-proud"--a
happy expression used by one of the neighbouring Malay potentates when wishing to describe
his feelings at a time of emerging from the security of his own retreat. But there was much
to do--clothes not looked at since the distant days when they left those cities on the other
side of the pass, had to be inspected and all their lapses laid bare--moths had eaten holes
in most conspicuous places, and in others rats had, literally, made their nests. The shirts
were whitened shams, as they lay, no more than so many "dickeys," in a row, for when unfolded
it was found that they had lost their tails, long since the prey of cockroaches or bedding
for the young of mice; collars, when severed from their fray, were sadly diminished in height,
and the overhauling of the boot department revealed the fact that there was nothing that would
bear a more critical eye than that of "The Community." However, the best had to be made of
a bad job, and one Bo Ping, a stitcher in leather, certainly did his best in the matter.

Then an equal preparation was required for the wardrobes of Usoof and Abu, the two followers
selected to accompany X. upon his travels. This entailed many visits from the local tailors,
who spent long hours in the back premises, accompanied by all their friends and relations--for
in Pura Pura, as amongst many other Eastern peoples, for one person at work there are always
ten looking on. Thus the interest in these proceedings was not centred upon X.--to some he
played quite a secondary part in the matter, being merely an incident connected with the departure
of Usoof, who was going to Java, which was his birthplace--as all the world knew--but which
he had left years ago, when little more than a baby in arms. Usoof was going home to find his
relations and tell them all about himself, and "Tuan"[2] X. happened to be going too. This
being a fact widely reported and discussed nightly far into the small hours of the morning,
while friends ate light refreshments of bread and sugar with pink-coloured syrups to wash them
down, it is not to be wondered at that X. began at last to feel that it was settled he was
going principally to search for Usoof's mother, who was possibly living in a village somewhere
in Java, her name unknown; indeed, her still being in the land of the living was a matter of
conjecture. This quest, however, which obtained additional interest from the little that was
knowable of its object, is alluded to here, so that when it is subsequently related how it
led X. from the beaten track of tourists, there may be no surprise, since it can be understood
that it would have been impossible for him to return to Pura Pura without some attempt to perform
that which was expected of him.

    [Footnote 2: Malay equivalent for Mister = Sahib.]

In due time arrived the document permitting X. to leave Pura Pura, and the day of departure
was fixed. Usoof and Abu had already gone on ahead in a bullock cart with the luggage, and
X. was to leave next morning. Several of "The Community" kindly came to see the start and sat
calm and superior over their long "stengahs," while the intending traveller endeavoured to
compress into a quarter of an hour the final instructions for the regulation of affairs in
his absence. However, after writing various little memos and giving many injunctions to the
syces and tenants generally, concerning the care of the horses, sheep, geese, dogs, bears,
tame storks, porcupines, and other live stock which belonged to the household, the traveller
mounted into his sulky, with that sinking in the region of his heart which comes to all those
temporarily about to leave Pura Pura's secluded calm. And thus he drove forth into the great
populous world beyond. The first glimpse of it was distant twenty-four miles, and reached after
a drive through some of the most beautiful jungle scenery imaginable. This oasis of civilization
was the capital of the State at whose port it was necessary to embark. Here X. remained for
the night, accepting hospitality from the kind doctor who had looked upon his complaint and
so scientifically localised and named it. To one fresh from the jungle, this evening appeared
full of novelty and life, from the fact of there being strange faces present. One of the party
was a French Roman Catholic priest, known to all in the various States as a man of practical
good works and a congenial companion. And there was also a gentleman of title--a visitor fresh
from England--who should have been called a globe-trotter had he not, in the course of the
meal, thanked Providence that he had come across none of that genus in those localities. This
gentleman, who rejoiced at the absence of globe-trotters, was bound for such a variety of places
in such a short space of time that X. could only regard him with bewilderment and envy. For
while he had only undertaken his journey after the mature consideration of a month, during
which time the correspondence concerning leave and medical certificates had assumed proportions
of official magnitude, this traveller carried with him all the documents connected with his
plans in the form of a piece of paper on which was written exactly where he must sleep, lunch,
and dine during the ensuing fortnight. It would be interesting to know if this visitor actually
accomplished his task and saw all that he proposed in the time allowed. Perhaps, when he gets
home, his community--the other titled people--will put pressure on him to write a book, and
satisfy our legitimate curiosity.

On the following morning X. boarded the train on the railroad which connects the capital with
the sea. He found himself an object of interest to the dwellers in those distant parts, not
only as the fleshly embodiment of the personality hitherto known as initials at the bottom
of official minutes, but as the champion who had not long since descended from his mountain
for the purpose of engaging the railway in litigation, in consequence of his garments having
suffered from sparks on the occasion of his last venture in the train.

This case had excited considerable interest, and X. had made a triumphant exit, as he drove
away from the court with portions of charred wardrobe packed in behind. During the present
journey there were no sparks, and the coast was reached without any incident which might promise
litigation. The party consisting of X., Usoof and Abu, embarked on the s.s. Malacca, a fairly
comfortable steamship with a kindly captain. The sniff of the sea was delightful to the jungle-wallah,
and, freed from official chains, he reclined in a long chair feeling that all his plans and
preparations had at least a present good result. The only incident of the voyage that remains
in his memory is the fact that a Chinese passenger sitting opposite at dinner drank a bottle
of whisky and a bottle of claret mixed, and appeared to suffer no subsequent inconvenience.
In the evening the ship lay off Malacca. There are few more suggestive views than this one
of twinkling lights, here and there disclosing momentary peeps of that picturesque old town,
peeps that conjure forth visions of half forgotten stories of that place of many memories,
told, in the jungle by the flicker of the camp fire, by Malays, adepts at relating tales handed
down by their fathers.

Then the cool evening of a tropical climate, the sea glinting in silver moonlit streaks around
the ship, which throwing a huge shadow on the water lies silently swinging to her anchor before
the peering little red stars of that solitary old-world city. Scenes such as these are some
compensation to many a home-sick exile.

Ah, well,--we must not get sentimental and out of tune, though the snores of the whisky-claret
Chinaman are particularly discordant. However he passed--as happily passengers do--and so did
the night and the early dawn as the s.s. Malacca approached the beautiful island of Singapore
(does everyone know it is an island?) Ask you another! Well, can my readers say straight off
what constitutes the Straits Settlements, and which are islands? but never mind--skip this
and hurry on over the bracket, if an answer were really wanted the bracket would not be there.

CHAPTER III.

SINGAPORE.

I see that X. has it in his notes that the first view of this city is the most beautiful in
the East--does he mean the approach, the view, or the city. It perhaps does not greatly matter,
but it is certain that he recorded the fact that to a poor jungle-wallah like himself it seemed
very vast and full of life, as he dressed himself and prepared to re-enter the world from which
he had so long been absent. A gharry--a close carriage on four wheels with a dirty-looking
driver and a tiny pony--now conveyed, or rather set forth to convey, the traveller to the hospitable
house of a certain distinguished general who resides in Singapore.

Singapore is a city in which it is notoriously difficult to find one's way about, as all the
roads seem alike--they are all excellent--and so do the houses. Had I not undertaken to tell
you how X. went to Java, I should like to stop and relate how once on this account the writer
dined at the wrong house--and dined well--while his host, whose name he never knew, preserved
an exquisite sang-froid and never showed surprise; but such egotistic digressions might possibly
annoy X. who has a right to claim the first place in this little history.

The driver apparently knew where no one as an individual lived, and entirely relied on strange
local descriptions known only to the native inhabitants, therefore it was vain for X. to try
and explain where he wanted to go. It transpired from interrogations of passers by that no
gharry driver or Malay policeman had heard of the General or even that such a personage existed--X.
never told the General that--and thus the gharry containing X., and the two which followed
with the suite and luggage, drove backwards and forwards puzzling people as they went, for
such twistings and turnings argued ignorance of locality, and ignorance of locality meant a
globe-trotter, and yet no mail steamer was in, and, again, no globe trotter would be followed
by two Malays. And presently he again endeavoured to explain where he wanted to go in forcible
Malay--this made the problem more difficult--till the passers by, mostly cooks going to market,
gave it up as one too deep, or perhaps too trivial, for solution. The morning drive thus lasted
till Europeans early for office appeared in their smart buggies and fast trotting horses, and
one of these magnates of commerce coming to the rescue, it was explained to the gharry syce
that the Commander of all the Forces occupied a house where Mr. So-and-so used to live, after
the celebrated Mr. So-and-so had sold off his racing stud and given up the house--"didn't the
driver remember?" "Yes, was not Omad the chief syce" to the gentleman alluded to? At this the
driver exclaimed, "of course," and whipping up his pony, with a withering look at his face,
which implied "if only he had had the sense to tell me that before," he drove direct to one
of the largest and most imposing mansions of the town.

Saved from the hotels of Singapore, where bewildered travellers grumble and strange-looking
jungle-wallahs come down to drink, X. felt all the half-dormant memories of civilization return
to him, as, passing the sentry, he entered the spacious hall and received a kindly welcome
from his host.

Having, as the books say, removed the traces of his journey, no very palpable ones in this
case, since washing is practicable and customary on board s.s. Malacca, X. joined his host
at breakfast and was informed of the programme of the day--consisting of an afternoon drive,
dining out in the evening, and thence to hear the regimental band play by moonlight in the
gardens. What a gay place Singapore seemed to X., who nightly dined alone, and to whom the
sound of a band was a memory of bygone days--and a band by moonlight too. Yes, that also had
memories all its own. On moonlight nights he is wont to sit on the verandah and listen to the
drowsy monotonous singing of the Malays who dwell in the villages below his hill. Very agreeable
is that chanting sound as it ascends, telling of companionship and content, although for that
very reason making the solitary European feel more solitary still. Native servants have given
him his dinner and left him to seek their own amusement. He is a duty only, something finished
with and put away for the night, left solitary upon the broad verandah, half envying the natives
who can enjoy the moonlight in the society of their friends.

Here in Singapore X. need envy no one, for was he not to go out after dinner and hear a band
in the moonlight, and a band played by Europeans? The reality equalled expectation, for moonlight
in the beautiful gardens of Singapore, with the elite of society sitting in their carriages
or strolling along the grass by the lake would have been a pleasant evening even to people
more blasé than X., nor did that person enjoy it any the less from catching sight of Usoof
and Abu standing as lonely amongst this mass of strangers as ever he was wont to feel when
brooding in his solitude at home, while they sang songs in the moonlight to their friends.

The evening ended up with the glorious dissipation of supper at the regimental mess. The immediate
result of this outing was pleasure, the subsequent one--probably the addition of another syllable
to the compound Greek word with which X.'s ailments had been identified.

CHAPTER IV.

ON THE WAY TO JAVA.

On the following day, remembering what was expected of him, X. hired a gharry and proceeded
to discharge all such obligations as etiquette demanded from one in his peculiar official position.
The first and foremost of these was to inscribe his name in a book in the ante-room of the
office of the Colonial Secretary. The names in this book would make interesting reading, and,
thought X., probably become a source of wealth could one take it into the smoking-room of a
London club and lay ten to one that no three people present could locate the places named upon
a map. Perak[3]--or as they would call it in the smoking-room, Pea rack--Selangor, Pahang--called
at home Pahhang--Jelebu, Sungei Ujong--also Londonized into Sonjeyajang--and many others of
unaccustomed sound.

    [Footnote 3: Pronounced Perah.]

Official routine over (this should be semi-official routine, suggests X., who fears that he
may be held responsible for any error of the writer, which may lead it to be supposed that
he is arrogating to himself any real Colonial Office rank)--however, it is difficult to be
so observant of nice distinctions--X. next paid a visit to Messrs. John Little and Co. Every
one who has been to Singapore has been to John Little's, for it is better known to the dwellers
in that city than even Whitely to Londoners. Whitely has rivals, John Little has none. From
this famous provider of necessaries and superfluities to the hospitable club is but a step,
and there the traveller lunched. This club is the meeting-place of all the prominent merchants
in Singapore. The building is a fine one, with a verandah overlooking the sea, and the members
always cordially welcome strangers and neighbours from the adjoining peninsula. Having said
this much I feel compelled to risk incurring the displeasure of X., who will be credited with
having told me, and add that the company is better than the cooking. The quality of the fluids
and the quantity are without reproach, but the food!--that is one of the things they manage
better in the jungle.

In the afternoon the General was again as good as his word, and took his guest for a drive,
showing to his wondering eyes all the beauties of the new water-works. The China mail had that
morning come in, and this favourite resort was dotted over with evident passengers, some of
them globe-trotters. What would the titled traveller have said had his hurried steps taken
him that way? In the evening His Excellency gave a dinner party to twenty guests culled from
the most select circles in Singapore. To sit at table with so many Europeans would at any time
have been a new sensation to X., but to suddenly find himself one of such a distinguished company
was almost alarming in its novelty. However, being happily situated by the side of Beauty,
the situation expanded generally, and had any member of The Community been watching, he might
have thought that X. was proving false to the creed that there was no place like Pura Pura
for a man to dwell in.

That which to the other diners was a matter of every day, to him was both a present pleasure
and a glimpse of the past.

It was, of course, quite hopeless to attempt to explain to anyone whence he came, or where
he lived, for the very name of Pura Pura was unknown to them, and so it was necessary to pose
as a passenger passing through en route to Java.

Some amongst the company had been to Java (including the host), and all spoke in high terms
of the civility to be found there.

In the morning the traveller took leave of his kind host, who left first at 5.30 a.m. for some
early little game of war, a description of which would probably have been as vague to a civilian
as would the geographical position of Pura Pura, or the exact official status of X., to members
of the company of the previous evening. The great soldier having driven off in full uniform
through a throng of salaaming menials of various nationalities, X. entered his humble gharry,
and, followed by Usoof and Abu, drove to the Messagerie wharf. The steamer for Batavia was
the s.s. Godavery, which was in connection with the mails for home. The cost of the passage
is, perhaps, for the actual distance travelled, the most expensive in the world. The time taken
by the voyage is thirty-six hours.

CHAPTER V.

BATAVIA.

The voyage on board the Godavery resembled similar ones, with the notable difference that the
excellent cuisine made X. wish that the time to be spent in transit were longer. The only people
who were not contented were Usoof and Abu, for each of whom their employer was paying the sum
of three dollars a night. These particular Mahomedans refused to touch the food shovelled out
to them, and to crowds of natives of all colour and class--by the rough and ready Chinese servants,
and towards the end of the second day, having eaten nothing, they presented a very woebegone
and miserable appearance. However, a few more judiciously placed dollars produced them a square
meal of bread and tea, after which they smiled.

There is perhaps no sensation so agreeable as the arrival in a strange port. Thoughts and conjectures
as to the possibilities that lie beyond the landing place are innumerable, and fancy and anticipation
are equally strong. When the Godavery steamed into Batavia it was still dark and the rain was
coming down in torrents. It all looked miserable enough, but, once alongside the wharf, daylight
began to appear and the passengers trooped ashore. The station was more than a quarter of a
mile from the place of landing, and this distance the poor people had to hurry along in the rain.

The unfortunate natives--carrying bundles containing their belongings--were drenched to the
skin. Also the European passengers--less objects of pity, as only the portion of their wardrobe
actually worn was exposed to the rain--came in for a considerable share of the moisture of
that wet arrival. It is true there was a magnificent covered way, but this was hopelessly blocked
up with trucks and other railway gear, which were, presumably, more susceptible to cold than
the passengers. The luggage was quickly and courteously passed by the Custom House officials,
and the travellers entered a luxuriously fitted train--apparently a show train, as X. never
met another like it in Java.

Arrival in Batavia town created a good first impression, as there were no pestering crowds,
as there are in Singapore, and there were many carriages waiting for hire, all two-horsed and good.

The drive to the hotel was a long one, through the business portions of the town, till the
residential side was reached. Here detached houses are situated alongside the principal road,
on the other side of which flows a canal, giving to the place an appropriate Dutch appearance.

The hotel was a most imposing building outside, with apparently countless rooms, but the thing
which immediately struck X. as something uncommon was the fact that the floors of the apartments
were level with the ground and not raised as is the case in Singapore and the Peninsula, and
he felt feverish as he noticed it. The traveller was allotted a fair sized room opening on
to a court yard, with other rooms and other openings to the right and to the left, and in fact
all round him, and in front of these rooms sat people in every stage of deshabille. There seemed
to be no privacy and what, perhaps, under the circumstances was fortunate,--no shyness. X.
however had not yet reached that point of his observations, and, entering his room, he shut
the door and ordered his first meal in Java. This turned out to be a terrible repast, consisting
of a plate of cold clammy selections from the interior of some edible beast, two cold hard-boiled
eggs, three small cold fish roasted in cocoanut oil, and something intended to resemble ham
and eggs. This first meal is mentioned in detail as it was but a foretaste of an equally trying
series. X. thought of Dagonet and that power of description which, when relating dyspeptic
woes, will compel the sympathy of the hardiest feeder.

It did not take long to skim hastily over the surface of these uninviting viands, and now X.
turned his attention to the notices which stared at him from every wall. These in many languages
threatened all travellers with penalties if, immediately after their arrival, they neglected
to obtain permission to reside in Netherlands India. After reading this, X. lost no time in
sending for a conveyance to drive to the British Consulate. The gentleman who received him
there was extremely civil and gave him all the information in his power. It appeared that if
the traveller was anxious for facts about Java, the officials of that country were equally
so in requiring the same from him, and he was obliged to fill in a printed form stating his
age, birthplace, residence and occupation, etc., and, when this was done, pay one guilder and
a half for his trouble. The next step was to go to the Bank, and nothing could exceed the kindness
with which he was received at this place, and the thoughtful manager assisted the stranger
to decide where he had better go in order to best see something of the country, and what was
most to the point, wrote for him the names of places and hotels which seem outlandish and terrible
on first meeting with them. X. learnt to his dismay that the system of obtaining money by cheque
was almost unknown, and it would always be necessary to carry money and, when more was wanted,
receive it by registered letter through the post. The idea of carrying ready money to a person
who had for years followed the customs of the East and depended on cheques and "chits," seemed
a new trouble for which he had not been prepared. On the drive back to the hotel through streets
sloppy with mud, the first new impression made upon the traveller was caused by the number
of natives selling vegetables--good wholesome English looking specimens, especially carrots.
This was a refreshing sight after years of seeing no familiar vegetables, except those which
passed long periods of imprisonment in tins.

All along the route natives of either sex were bathing in the filthy water of the canal without
even a suspicion of that modesty which characterises the Malays. Impression No. 2 was noted
to the effect that none of the natives wore boots or shoes, and all plashed barefooted through
the mud. He had already had his attention called to this absence of shoes when coming up in
the train by the notice (not to say the excitement) attracted by the neatly-booted feet of
his followers. Could it be possible that they would also be obliged to go barefooted through
the muddy streets? And still worse thought--would it fall to his lot to break it to them? The
natives all appeared larger and more strongly built than the Malays of the Peninsula, but,
as in Singapore, they were a hybrid lot, and there were also to be seen a variety of other
nationalities--Malay nationalities--but, strange to say, no Arabs, and, more remarkable still,
no Chinamen. To those readers who may not have visited that part of the world of which I write,
it should be explained that Singapore is almost entirely populated by Chinese, and in the native
states they materially outnumber the Malays, so that the eye is accustomed to see Chinese everywhere
and regard them as the real inhabitants of the country. Their absence in a Malay town strikes
anyone coming from the Peninsula as strange. Cf course there are Chinese in Batavia, and many
of them, as X. soon learnt, but they do not pervade the whole place as is the case in the English
colonies over the way.

Reaching the hotel X. was relieved to find that Usoof and Abu had discarded their boots, and
were picking their way delicately across the mud of the courtyard. Also they had been provided
with an excellent curry. Then he prepared to get ready for his own lunch, and next to bathe.
In order to do this it was necessary to run the gauntlet of many eyes, as the bathroom was
some distance off, and, to reach it, the entire length of the verandah must be passed. On to
this verandah opened the doors of bedrooms, the occupant of each sitting in his long chair
in front--exactly, as Abu remarked, like vendors holding stalls in a market. The long chairs
were of the luxurious kind, with short seats and long movable arms, and on which latter the
occupants extended their naked feet. This of course refers to the men. Ladies also sat there,
in what X. subsequently learnt was not altogether considered deshabille, namely, the sarong
and kabaya of the country. The first-named garment, it may be explained for the benefit of
readers in the West, is a close-fitting petticoat such as the natives wear, and the latter
a white linen jacket. It required some courage to take that first walk along this verandah,
but things seldom continue to seem strange, unless other people look as if they thought them
so, and as these reclining rows of visitors lay back doing nothing, not even reading, with
an air of unconcern, it was not difficult for X. to assume one too. However, he could not but
believe that he helped to fill in that vacant blank in which the sitters sank, as he passed
along, himself clad in wondrous garments made of gaudy silks woven by the skilled natives of
the Peninsula, while Usoof and Abu followed, bringing the towels and soap. Nor did he entirely
deceive himself, since he was subsequently informed by Usoof that the "boy" of a Nyonia, or
what in Singapore is called a "mem," told him that his lady had instructed him to discover
whether X. had many more of those silk sarongs for sale.

Lunch was perhaps the first real revelation of life in Java, since it introduced the traveller
to that which a majority of the people seem to live for (and always sleep after)--the rice-table.
This rice-table has been so often described that it need not be done in detail here; but the
basis, as it were, of this rice-table is, as may be supposed, rice, and with this foundation
in your plate, innumerable dishes of eggs, fish, meat, etc., are offered by a string of attendants,
who expect you to put some of each on the top of it. Probably this is only a literal and exaggerated
interpretation of a Malay curry, which is incomplete without the countless little relishes
which should accompany it. This particular dish, or rather function, is seen in its fullest
development in the up-country places, visited later, and the one in Batavia was scarcely a
fair sample, as though X. was unaware of this at the time, its proportions had evidently been
toned down and diminished out of deference to the cosmopolitan character of the guests, who,
probably like our traveller, had on former occasions given their ignorance away by asking for
more plates and taking each dish seriously, as though it were a separate course, sent up before
its time, at the risk of getting cold. To a person accustomed to Singapore there was something
novel and cheering about the first meal in the vast dining-hall of this hotel. The floor was
of marble--scrupulously clean--and the Javanese waiters were dressed in a uniform of white
trimmed with red, presenting a pleasing contrast to the slipshod dirty "boy" of an ordinary
hotel, whose habit it is to clatter round flapping your face and brushing your food with his
long, unclean, hanging sleeves. Though in the native states from whence X. came it is no uncommon
thing to see Malays wait at table, yet in Singapore, with the exception of Indian servants,
it is very seldom that there are any attendants but Chinese.

Perhaps the most striking feature of the meal was the absence of bread. This could be procured,
when asked for, but was not provided, as it is elsewhere, as a matter of course, and was regarded
as an extra. An excellent arrangement of this marble hall was that it was permitted to smoke
immediately after lunch. As, availing himself of this, X. smoked his cigarette and meditated
contentedly, he noted all the various details which might interest The Community at home. One
rather prominent detail was a lady at a neighbouring table dressed only in a sarong and kabaya,
with her extremities bare. The lower portion of these were thrust into some loose sandal slippers,
the upper turned back as far under the chair as the stretch of the sarong would allow. It was
not a costume which, from X.'s point of view, appeared elegant, though, like most articles
of apparel worn by beauty, capable of becoming elegant if elegantly worn; still in the present
instance more natural elegance would be required in proportion to that of the costume, there
being so little of the latter. Returning to the publicity of his apartment, X. was met by Usoof
and Abu, both with very long faces and evidently in considerable distress. On being interrogated
it transpired that they had nowhere to bathe. Now to bathe, and bathe constantly, is as necessary
to a Malay as are regular meals to a European. X., being sadly aware that he would be held
responsible for everything that went wrong or did not fit in with the exact views of these
children of nature, thought it best to be brave at the commencement of things and affect an
indifference which he was far from really feeling, and, therefore, with a jerk of his head
towards the canal, replied that that was where people bathed. "Yes, perhaps people," said Abu,
with meaning, and then for fear X. should not be sufficiently intelligent to catch the tone,
added "people who don't mind filth or water like that in a drain." This seemed to need no answer,
and as Usoof had reserved his remarks X. knew that worse was to come, and he would be more
prudent to wait and reply on the whole question, instead of being drawn into argument as though
he were actually to blame for this terrible state of affairs. But as Usoof still kept silence
X. rashly thought he had gained an easy victory, and airily added, "All right, you must make
the best of it and go to the canal." Then the reserved remarks found vent, "Was the Tuan aware
that all the women in the place bathed there?" "Yes," this had to be admitted, since the Tuan
himself had noticed it, and, as has been recorded above, not without some comments of his own.
"Then how can I bathe there at the same time?" continued Usoof, "I should be ashamed." "Well,
if they are not you need not be," rather frivolously replied his master, as he sought escape
from further conversation by burrowing in a box full of books. It may as well be recorded here
that the couple never did bathe in that canal, and eventually drove some miles into the country,
where they performed their modest ablutions by a village well. They also refused to permit
any clothes to be sent to the wash in Batavia, and they were not far wrong, since the water
of the canal was equally unfitted for washing either clothes or the human body it was their
office to adorn.

CHAPTER VI.

AN OFFICIAL CALL.

After luncheon X. took a drive. All the most noteworthy features of Batavia are duly set forth
in guide books, and it is therefore only advisable to mention those few points of difference
from an English colonial town which seemed to the traveller worthy of note. The principal one
was that all the residents' houses were built along the side of the high road; there were no
secluded mansions standing in their own grounds as in Singapore. All the houses were obtrusively
en evidence, so much so, that people, socially inclined, take their evening drive and note
at a glance, by the lights displayed, who is at home and ready to receive. Those not prepared
to entertain sit in semi-darkness. The houses seemed as devoid of privacy as were the verandahs
of the hotels. Planted on each side of the road were huge towering trees testifying by their
presence that the town was not of mushroom growth. No Europeans were met; this was understood
later when it was explained that at this hour of the day they were all asleep. At first it
seemed that there were no shops, but closer observation discovered them under the same roof
as some of the private dwellings, standing detached away from the road. The English Church
wore a deserted aspect, closed and uncared for. Possibly the driver libelled the community
when he informed the traveller that it was never used. The ordinary carriage is a dos-à-dos,
a most uncomfortable conveyance like an Irish car turned end on, but excellent carriages are
provided by the hotels.

Later our traveller proposed to call upon the Resident--the chief authority in the place--and
present his letters of introduction. He had been told that he must not call before 7.30 in
the evening, and also that he must wear dress clothes. It seemed an outrageous thing to do,
to put on dress clothes in broad daylight in an hotel and to go out about dinner time to call,
and when he summoned Usoof to assist him, that grave-faced individual did so with a kind of
silent pity for his master compelled to do unaccountable things in a land of strangers.

However, when X. had arrayed himself, as though he were dining out, his heart failed him. He
felt it was impossible to go to the house of a stranger like this just at the hour for dinner
without appearing as though he hoped he would be asked to stay for that meal. And so he shamefacedly
untied his white tie and asked Usoof to provide him with a morning coat. This apprehension
might have been spared, however; the call was never actually paid, for, in the drive that led
up to the house of the Resident, he met a carriage coming out containing a gentleman and three
ladies. This turned out to be the Resident with his wife and daughters. It was an agreeable
surprise to find that the carriage stopped, and the traveller had the somewhat difficult task
of introducing himself and explaining his appearance in the dark. The Resident, who spoke excellent
English, was most cordial and kind. He regretted that he was not at home to receive the intended
visit, but he was obliged to attend a reception given in honour of the General, the hero of
the Lomboh War. Then the great official expressed a hope that X. had secured his permit, and
told him that he must renew it when he reached Buitensug, which was the limit of his jurisdiction.
X. noticed that the Resident was not in dress clothes and mentally congratulated himself that
he wore none either, or most certainly as the carriage drove away he would have looked like
a person disappointed of a dinner.

The hotel was most gorgeously illuminated with electric light, and the marble dining hall was
extravagantly lurid. Had X. consulted his convenience he would certainly have worn his black
sun spectacles, but actually feared to alarm his followers by exhibiting any further tendency
to eccentricity on their first day in a strange country, and so he resigned himself to blink
owlishly throughout the meal. The absence of a punkah, a necessity to which he was accustomed,
was also a trial. However, there was little fear of getting hot by over indulgence at the table,
as the chilly cocoanut-oily viands were excellent checks to any imprudent display of appetite.
Towards the end of the repast the proprietor of the hotel informed X. that the Resident of
Batavia wished to speak to him through the telephone. If there is one place where he exhibits
himself in an unfavourable light it is in front of that horrible, muttering, jibbering instrument,
when, after the introductory "Who's there?" and information as to who you are repeated ad nauseam,
there rumble to your ear the most exasperating sounds, so full of meaning and yet conveying
nothing, until it seems as though the person at the other end were mocking you, and the tone
of his voice gets so irritating that you long to throw down the tubes and make a rush at him.
However, on this occasion X. wisely left the whole matter in the hands of the proprietor, who
presently informed him that the Resident invited him to an open air concert given at the Concordia
Club in honour of the General, then the man of the hour, and, if he would care to come, an
English friend would presently call for him at the hotel. The only possible answer to such
a welcome invitation was duly transmitted.

X. has, according to his own account, all his life been a most fortunate individual. Wherever
he went he has always, as the phrase has it, "fallen on his feet." On this expedition his luck
did not desert him, and on the appearance of his fellow countryman which took place (to be
exact in speaking of an event now historical) at 9 p.m., there commenced a new departure which
forged a first link in the chain of events which was to happily land him in the most beautiful
country that he had ever yet beheld. X. has always thought of telephones more kindly since.

CHAPTER VII.

A CONCERT AT THE CONCORDIA CLUB.

The traveller was naturally much impressed with the scene at the Concordia Club. In the beautiful
gardens, which were gorgeously illuminated, people were walking about and sitting down as though
it were an English summer night. But, as in the East thoughts of health and diet always occupy
an extraordinarily prominent place in the minds of all who have dwelt there for any length
of time, that which chiefly struck the stranger was the apparently reckless indifference to
fever displayed by those flaneurs who dawdled about under the trees on this treacherous soil,
as though it were the harmless green grass of Hurlingham at home. And it almost relieved him
to hear presently from a lady, to whom he expressed this astonishment, that the doctors declared
this season of open air concerts was certainly the most busy time for colds and fever. The
Resident and his party were seated at a round table on the top of the flight of marble steps
leading to the Club. To each person of this group X. was presented in turn, after which he
had the honour of a seat on the right hand of his host and thus full opportunity to enjoy the
novelty of the surroundings and the excellent music of the band. As the party gathered round
the table included some of the greatest names in the country, people who were in a position
to have an intimate knowledge of recent events, the conversation proved interesting and instructive.
Thus the Englishman heard the story of the Balineri war--that terrible defeat and massacre
of the Dutch troops under the command of the general, who ultimately retrieved the position,
and to do honour to whom all were assembled to-night. X. listened as people spoke of the unparalleled
treachery of the natives, the sufferings of the troops, and the assistance rendered to the
enemy by the importation of arms by a European. And severe remarks were made as to this latter
incident, some present insisting that the culprit was an Englishman from Singapore. War was
in the air--everyone talked of the war, and such an impression did the matter make upon X.,
who heard the conduct of the campaign discussed wherever he went, throughout his stay, that
it may be of interest to give in a separate chapter the story of what was said about the recent
war.

All those who joined the party on the terrace spoke English, to the relief of X.--and as new
guests arrived to join the circle they were formally introduced by name to each one among the
company in that precise manner which is the fashion in America. And likewise when any individual
rose to leave he would bid good-night to each separate member of the party.

When I undertook to compile this little account of how X. went to Java, it had been my intention
to arrange what he saw and what he heard in some order of sequence, but from the nature of
his manner of observation, I find this to be impossible, and therefore must record each impression
he received and facts of interest which he heard, just as they came to him, regardless of apparent
want of connection. As the chief object of this sketch is to assist others intending to spend
a short holiday in that beautiful island belonging to our neighbours, this little originality
may pass.

Thus on this occasion the traveller learnt that, contrary to his former ideas on the matter,
the Civil Service was much underpaid, and that, though it corresponds with our Indian Civil
Service in standard of examination, etc., the scale of pay and of pensions falls far short
of its prototype. And it may be mentioned here, as showing what an important part naval officers
are expected to play in Dutch East India, that all midshipmen have to pass in the Malay language.
The command of the squadron on the waters of Netherlands India is the prize of the service,
to the holding of which the most distinguished naval officers look forward. The Governor General
of the Dutch possessions in the East is known as His Excellency during his term of office.
The admiral who commands there not only has the same title during the years of his command,
but is entitled to retain it for the remainder of his life. In the course of conversation the
Resident kindly informed X. that he must not be annoyed at being obliged to obtain a permit
to travel, since it had been found necessary to insist that even his own countrymen should
do so, and he had recently caused notices to be issued and posted in all the steamers and hotels,
so that there might be no misunderstanding in the matter. After the concert and the conclusion
of a most agreeable evening X. was introduced to the Harmonic Club, where he had supper.

This, like the Concordia, is a magnificent building with marble pillars and floors, more in
accordance with his early ideas of the gorgeous East than anything which the traveller had
seen. The Harmonic Club was built during the time when Java was an English possession--and
his informant, the Englishman, sighed. It was not long before the new comer also sighed, when,
having seen the beauties of this glorious country, he remembered that but for the blindness
of some former rulers, unmindful of the advice of those on the spot who should know, another
India might have been held for England. But as the natural beauty of the country was enhanced
and made complete by the sight of universal prosperity and content, the sound of such a sigh
from an English visitor is the greatest compliment the present proprietors could be paid.

The first day of X.'s stay in Java was now over--a pleasant day enough, as he admitted to himself,
after a long seclusion in the jungle--the place on which, after all, his last thoughts rested,
that negatively happy jungle and its kindly inhabitants--represented to his immediate view
by two inanimate bundles on the floor entrenched behind a barricade of boxes in a corner of
the room. These were the faithful Usoof and Abu, long since gone to rest--forgetful of all
the troubles of their first day in a new country.

CHAPTER VIII.

CONCERNING THE LOMBOH WAR.

Lomboh is an island to the east of Java. The Raja of Lomboh did not come to Batavia at a time
when it was expected of him, and after some correspondence the Resident of the nearest district
was sent to see him. After--in true oriental fashion--promising to give him audience, and then
failing to do so--keeping the Resident waiting a week--he finally sent a message refusing to
meet him. Then troops were sent. But their departure was not effected without a commencement
of that bickering which marked the whole subsequent course of events. The General in command
was junior to the Admiral over whom he was put. A compromise was effected by a second general
being appointed. When the expedition reached its destination the Balineri showed great astonishment
at this parade of force, and affected to be at a total loss to understand why they had come.

This unexpected turn of events finally ended in a great "chumming up" which developed into
social functions and the taking of a photograph, in which the Raja's generals and other chiefs
of the expedition were all taken in one large group. This photograph was sent to Buitenzorg--the
seat of Government--as a proof of the unreality of the scare, and the diplomatic ease with
which the expedition had been able to come, see and conquer.

The photograph is not now to be purchased. After the festivities and photography the Dutch
force camped by the Palace walls, and the general in command reported officially that the matter
was settled.

On receipt of this welcome news the Governor General was so delighted that he gave a dinner
party that same evening, and after the meal was over stood on the billiard table and made a
little speech announcing the bloodless success and happy termination of the affair Lomboh.

The Palace where the troops had camped was a kind of village--a collection of houses surrounded
by a huge wall. Each day the Dutch held parades and drill outside the village, and tried to
astonish the natives with the wonders of their Winchesters and field guns. At these the people
professed great astonishment, examining those modern weapons with intense interest, and asking
questions innumerable as to their construction and cost. The latter is almost invariably the
first question which occurs to a native mind.

The Balinese must be clever actors, since all the while they possessed hundreds of Winchesters
and many pieces of field ordnance within those deceitful walls. They were deceitful walls,
for they were extensively loop-holed, the apertures being cunningly stopped up with mortar.
One evening the crisis came. The officers while playing whist--dressed in their lounge clothes
of sarong and their feet bare, were attacked and shot down almost to a man. When the poor fellows
sought refuge under the walls, hand grenades were fired to dislodge them. A general panic and
flight followed. Those fugitives who had managed to effect an orderly retreat, took refuge
in a temple about half way between their camp and that of another detachment. It was only then
that they realized to the full extent the nature of the terrible disaster, for here they met
a poor remnant of that other detachment fighting their way to them for help--they also having
been treacherously attacked.

But this was not all, no warning had yet been sent to a third detachment which had been left
on the coast. This column, ignorant of any disaster, marched in to the recent camp and had
scarcely time to wheel round before the guns in the loopholes opened fire, almost annihilating
them, a few only escaping back to the boats.

How deeply affected were the Dutch and their friends, the whole civilized world, at the arrival
of this terrible news, is matter of history, and for a time something like consternation reigned
in Buitenzorg and Batavia.

After telegraphic communication with Europe, and the fortunate mislaying of a certain message
deprecating any prompt action, the Governor General took a popular step in deciding to send
every available man to the seat of war, and to render all possible assistance.

This was done, and the Dutch forces subsequently retrieved their fortunes, in some measure
avenging the death of their comrades. But it was at no small sacrifice, since Java--the Government
of which place much reliance on military display--was almost destitute of troops. As an illustration
of this it is related that during this war the Sultan of Deli elected to pay a visit to Batavia.
As only two battalions of troops were left it was considered impolitic that he should know
it, therefore the men were marched past him first when he was dining in the capital, and then
despatched by train to represent other battalions, and march past him once again on the occasion
of his visit to Buitenzorg the following day.

The description of the tears of the aged Sultan of Lomboh at the destruction of his beautiful
palace, and the marvellous stories of how jewels and millions of treasure were borne away by
the victorious General more resembled a page for the "Arabian Nights" than a record of facts
in the present day. On the other hand, accounts of the terrible hardships endured by the brave
Dutch soldiers sounded more modern, and were only too easy of belief.

The seat of the war was only half a day from the Javanese port of Soerabaya, and enough money
had been collected in Java and Holland to pay the cost of the entire war, and yet it was so
mismanaged that officers had only rice to eat, and nightly camped out on the ground without
shelter in that fever-giving climate.

CHAPTER IX.

BUITENZORG.

On the afternoon of the day of his arrival, a Sunday, having declined a kind invitation to
a party for the theatre, X. decided to leave for Buitenzorg. He thought he sniffed fever mingled
with the other very apparent odours in his room on the ground floor, while Usoof and Abu not
only could not bathe but were unable to send his clothes to the wash. The combination of reasons
and of smells was strong.

It may be mentioned here, it being about as apropos in this place as it would be in any other,
that all functions in Java, from a reception of the Governor General to a performance by a
travelling show, take place on a Sunday.

The train left Batavia at 4.30 and X. reached Buitenzorg at six.

So much that is misleading has been written about Buitenzorg--the Washington of Java, that
X. was woefully deceived. It certainly is a beautiful place--indeed exquisitely so, but a traveller
is scarcely satisfied with the beauties of nature when he pays to mankind for creature comforts
which he fails to obtain. The most agreeable feature of the journey to a stranger who has,
as it were, been long hemmed in by dense jungles in the Peninsula, was certainly the long stretches
of open country reminding him of the pasture lands and fields which fly past the train at home.
Cattle and ponies grazing complete the illusion, and X. could scarcely refrain from outspoken
exclamations of delight.

It had been much impressed upon the traveller that he must by all means obtain a room at the
Belle Vue Hotel, and if possible, one overlooking the back which governs the famous view. This
was achieved by telegram. On arrival a carriage with three ponies conveyed him to the hotel--a
poor building on a lovely site, which bristled with possibilities.

The famous back terrace of rooms was at the further side of the courtyard to the entrance,
and, once duly installed, X. was delighted with the outlook. Just immediately below the window
was the railway line--below that rushed a large, broad, shallow mountain river in which half
the native population seemed to be bathing. Beyond these stretched an unbroken view of picturesque
villages, whose scattered red-roofed houses peeped here and there from among the palms and
other graceful trees. Beyond again, the mountain--with five distinct sugar-loaf tops, tops
which had to be watched while counting as they emerged and disappeared in turn from out and
in the hanging land of clouds. Yes, the view had certainly not been overrated, and X. was glad
he came.

Usoof and Abu refused to consider anything beautiful, and could only exclaim with horror at
the bathers in the river, who evidently shocked their ideas of propriety. Their master was
not surprised at their comments, but his own views were broader and his moral perceptions perhaps
blunter, and experience had taught him the propriety of the injunction concerning Rome and
the Romans. But it was nevertheless quite certain that the most moderate London County Councillor
could not have borne the sight of that river without a shock to his system. After revelling
in the view from the verandah a black coat was donned for dinner, which the wearer subsequently
found rendered him conspicuous, and he then crossed the courtyard to the dining room prepared
to dine well off fresh fish, mutton, and other products of the country. Although the soup was
on the table cooling, the company sat outside round a little table drinking gin and bitters.
Not wanting any, X. as Clark Russell would say, hung in the wind, and then after a few seconds--seeing
that dinner was certainly ready--seated himself. This isolated action rendered him almost as
conspicuous as his coat, which was also alone in its sombre glory. Presently others followed
the stranger's example, and the meal began. Then ensued a period of disillusion. There was
no punkah, the glare of the lamplight was blinding, and the food--all of it--coarse, greasy
and cold. The soup which had been waiting was of the variety known as tinned, an old acquaintance
which X. had hoped to have left in the jungle until his return. This, and other messes, would
not have mattered so greatly, had not the proprietor of the hotel, a pompous gentleman (X.
afterwards learnt he was President of the Race Club), stood sentry over the door, whence issued
the rows of servants with the dishes, narrowly watching what each guest partook of and detecting
with an eagle eye the uneatable scraps which the defeated diner had striven to conceal beneath
his knife and fork. The most amusing thing during the progress of the meal was the conversation
of an elderly English couple, who, in truly British tourist fashion seemed to imagine they
were alone, and the people round them but figures of wax who could neither hear nor be affected
by anything they might say. "Oh, how they soak the fish in grease," the lady would exclaim;
or, "This is good meat, but ruined, yes, positively ruined in the cooking; look, my dear, it
is (doubtfully, and sniffing at her plate), it is absolutely soaked in grease--oh, what a pity,
how can you eat it, dear--but you would eat anything," the speaker continued garrulously, "for
yesterday you ate the fish on board that steamer when it was almost rotten--I smelt it from
my cabin before we came out, etc," and much more in the same strain. To all these domestic
remarks, her companion vouchsafed no reply, but continued his dinner as though accustomed to
such an accompaniment.

It was as much as X. could do to refrain from laughing, and, fearful of hurting the feelings
of others himself, he would take another helping when the proprietor was looking, and felt
uncommonly "hot" at the conduct of his compatriot. However, worse was to come, for at the end
of dinner, when the "boys" brought coffee made in the way usual to the country--a few drops
of cold essence of coffee at the bottom of the cups, which had to be filled up with boiling
milk or water--the lady from England could not contain her indignation, but loudly scolded
the waiter for such a stingy way of putting so little in the cup, since "coffee should surely
be cheap in Java," and then proceeded to empty the contents of all the cups into two, one for
herself and one for her husband, while saying with a smile "we like a cup of coffee, not a
drop." Then while she sipped her full cup like one on whom there unwillingly dawns the unpleasant
consciousness of having made a mistake, the lady further addressed the waiter and asked, "Do
they always drink cold coffee in Java?" The waiter, who could only stand passive while this
calm robbery was committed--for had not the whole company to wait for a second brew--made reply
with the only English of his vocabulary, "yes." X., who had the doubtful advantage of understanding
as well as seeing all that was going on, glared fiercely as he saw himself deprived of the
only portion of the meal which was at all likely to be good, and could willingly have caused
an interruption by using his napkin and bread as a sling and a stone. The "yes" of the native
apparently checked the embarrassment which the lady was beginning to feel, and triumphantly
she exclaimed, "My goodness, what a country." Then the husband blew his nose with discomfort,
and, her attention attracted, his good wife exclaimed, "My dear, you have a cold, let us go
to bed," and they went. X., and possibly others, found satisfaction in the thought that people
might go to bed after partaking of such a concoction as that couple had done, but that they
certainly would not sleep. Nor did they, as the sequel showed. For the lady and her husband
also had a room on the terrace suite, and this was divided only by a thin partition from that
of X., and though he did not wish to listen, the first words which greeted his gratified ears
on the following morning were, "Oh, darling, I have had such a dreadful night; I never closed
my eyes." X. heard no more as he delicately buried his head in the pillows, lest he should
be dragged too deep in domestic confidences; but he had heard enough--he was avenged. And they
knew themselves it was the coffee, since it was noticed that this night after dinner the sleepless
couple each firmly declined the brimming cups, which, with kind forethought for the public
good, the proprietor had ordered to be handed to them.

CHAPTER X.

CUSTOMS AND COSTUMES.

Early in the morning X. went out to explore, and, naturally, his first visit was to those wonderful
gardens which are the first in the world, and are the resort of naturalists from all portions
of the globe.

In a sketch of this nature it would be presumption to attempt to describe the marvels of this
garden, one of the sights of the East, which it is worth while going to Java to see. During
his walk the traveller was at every turn astonished at the evidences of wealth amongst the
natives, the tiled roofed houses and plentifully stocked orchards and gardens, while goats
and sheep browsed everywhere. In the streets everyone appeared to be selling--there seemed
none left to buy--and they sold the most attractive looking fruits and vegetables, together
with a variety of flowers. The population is large, and for some distance round the town stretched
rows and rows of native houses built close together, backs and fronts facing each other in
every angle and position, showing that the people must surely live together in unity, en famille
or rather en masse, in marked contrast to the Malay villages, where, as a rule, each house
stands in an enclosure of its own grounds. But there they have unlimited space, here apparently
they have unlimited people.

Himself living an isolated life amongst a native race, it was only natural that X. should be
more inclined than the ordinary traveller to notice the people of the country and their surroundings.
He had heard so many stories of their oppression by the Dutch and the uncomfortable conditions
under which they lived, that the actual appearance of the natives came as a surprise, which
only increased the more he saw and the further he travelled in Java.

As to higher life in Java, to any one who has been there or knows anything of the country,
its social conditions are well known. But however much may have been previously heard of them,
it cannot but give the ordinary Englishman a shock, when he is for the first time confronted
with them in their reality. Intermarriage with the people of the country is not only condoned,
but almost encouraged, and it is no uncommon thing to meet the children of these marriages
in the highest society. Cases occur where people, holding great positions, legitimize their
children, and after years of unsolemnized intercourse lead their mother to the altar. The mothers
of many children being educated in Holland, probably in the future to enter the service of
the country, are simply native women still living in their villages. The accident of birth
would seldom be considered a bar when ascending official heights, nor is a mixed parentage
any obstacle to such distinction.

Many instances of this were observed by X. during his visit, and, though the state of affairs
appeared to him rather strange, he was obliged to own that from a Dutch point of view there
existed many and weighty arguments in its favour, the pros and cons of such a question are
certainly beyond the scope of a book which only purports to note for the benefit of intending
travellers such things as merit observation.

So far as I can gather, there were few excursions to be made from Buitenzorg and few sights,
but in the afternoon he drove to see a famous stone covered with Hindoo inscriptions, the first
indication brought to his notice of the real origin of this now Mahommedan people.

Late in the day X. decided to call upon the official who holds the position corresponding with
that of an English Colonial Secretary, and to ask his assistance in obtaining a pass to continue
his journey into the interior. Though warned not to call before 7 p.m., just as it was getting
dusk, the traveller felt nervous and fidgety, unable to really believe that he would be doing
right to make a call so late, and thus six o'clock found him approaching the very modest-looking
dwelling in which the great official dwelt. A glance was enough to show that he was wrong and
his informant right, since in front of him, at a desk in a room off the verandah, sat his host
still clothed in the undress of pyjamas--not having yet made his toilet for the evening. However,
though X. felt guilty of a gaucherie, the sense of it came entirely from his own consciousness,
and not at all from the manner of the gentleman whom he interrupted, for without the least
trace of either annoyance or surprise, but as though the untimely appearance of a stranger
and a foreigner was a daily occurrence, he bade him welcome with polite cordiality. This official
was as agreeable and well informed as anyone the traveller had met, and X. always waxes enthusiastic
when speaking of him. With true courtesy he at once abandoned the work on which he was engaged,
without that last lingering look at the table which so often ruins the grace of a similar sacrifice,
and forthwith evinced the utmost interest in the affairs of his guest. He quickly reassured
him concerning his pass, and, on hearing that he was in some way connected with the Government
across the Straits, immediately promised to procure for him a special permit which would enable
him to travel where he would, and ensure assistance from all with whom he came in contact.
Though, at this time relying upon his own ability to manage the order of his going, X. may
not have attached much importance to the future part which this permit would play, at the end
of his travels he gladly acknowledged that it proved of the utmost utility, and there was more
than one occasion on which he felt impelled to record words of gratitude towards him who had
so thoughtfully provided it.

Apropos of the calling hour, it may be mentioned here that this is a social rock on which many
English people strike. I use this nautical simile advisedly since, not so very long ago, no
less a person than a British Admiral wishing to follow the hours to which he was accustomed
paid his official call on the Dutch Naval Commander at five o'clock. The Dutch Admiral, who
was not then dressed, and did not intend to dress until seven o'clock, declined to receive
him at such an unusual hour, and the question of dress, always one of the first importance
in the British Navy, then became rather a burning one, until tactful mediators paved the way
for a more successful visit. Whereas, in the East, English people maintain their usual habits
and customs--did not our grandfathers wear tall hats when pig-sticking in India?--the Dutch
in Java adopt the habits and the clothes they consider most fitting for the climate. It is
not intended to imply that both are loose, though certainly the former are somewhat relaxed.
No visitor to the country is competent to give a judgment for or against the manners he finds
there. X. longed to impress this on more than one tourist whom he met on his travels.

Few Dutch ladies in Java mind being seen in what to us appears undress--a sarong and kabaya--and
frequently, when without guests, it is the custom to dine in this scanty apparel. In consequence
there is a dislike to dining out, which involves the wearing of European clothes in all their
fashionable tightness, and many a story is told in Batavia of sudden illness amongst lady guests
during the evening--illness easily attributable to the unusual compression of garments, worn
only on such rare occasions.

There is seldom necessity for dressing since Europeans scarcely ever call in Java--of ladies
it may be said they never call--though in the mornings they drive round in covered carriages
visiting their intimate friends, clad in the skirts of the country so universally adopted.

CHAPTER XI.

AN UNTIMELY CALL.

It was this same custom which caused discomfiture to X. on the following day, when having received
the promised special permit, a document calling upon all officials to assist him, in the name
of the Governor-General himself, he decided that it would be only right that he should present
himself at the house of the ruler who had signed it, and in token of gratitude and respect
inscribe his name in his book. As the traveller had no intention of seeing anyone or attempting
to enter the gorgeous palace which stands in the midst of the famous gardens, there seemed
no need to trouble about the time for the call, and therefore it seemed well to make it the
excuse for a walk and fit it in with his afternoon stroll. Accordingly about 5 o'clock found
him walking up the broad avenue, on either side of which were browsing deer in great numbers--a
very novel feature to anyone who for years had only seen such creatures wild excepting one
time when--but no I must withhold the temptation to wander off the broad avenue which leads
the visitor up to the stately pile in front of him as, like he did a little further on, I would
wish to get it over. For it is not pleasant even to record the admittedly awkward situations
in which X., who had always prided himself on his savoir faire, now so often found himself.

As he approached the portico (it reminded him much of Gorhambury, the seat of Lord Verulam,
in Hertfordshire) the stranger became aware, rather than actually saw, that there were two
figures seated on the main verandah having tea. He almost felt their eyes upon him in wonder
and amusement, and, as he gradually neared the steps without in any way looking up, it was
in some mysterious manner conveyed to him that these figures were ladies, and their dress,
the sarong and kabaya! What was he to do. He could not turn and fly, nor could he diverge from
the broad path and wander across the grass like any common trespasser--and, even while he wondered,
his steps took him deliberately on, feeling self-conscious in the most literal understanding
of the word--and inexorably each moment took him nearer, though in the endeavour to put off
the evil moment he had, perhaps unknown to himself, slowed down his previously deliberate saunter
until his feet were now doing little more than marking slow time. However, the visitor gazed
alternately at the tops of the trees and the roof of the palace, as though things of absorbing
interest were there taking place, and at last he was obliged to realize that he had reached
the lowest step of the imposing staircase.

X. assures me that it is a fact, he never once lowered his eyes or focussed the little party
before him, although ultimately the tea table could not have been more than a few yards off.
There stood the stranger with a vacant expression which would have made the fortune of a performer
in a waxwork show, and hoped and almost prayed that a servant of some kind would appear, receive
his signature or his card and allow him to return to the comfortless obscurity of his hotel.
There was no bell, and no servant came, and the silence at length became unbearable. Relief
came at last from the tea party for the voice of a lady suddenly fairly shrieked for a "boy."
After this explosion the tension of the situation was relieved, and there was a sound as of
chairs hastily pushed back and the patter of little feet and the rustle of sarongs, which led
X. to infer that there had been some sort of a retreat. Then a flurried native appeared, he
seemed a kind of gardener hastily fetched from his duties, possibly the mowing machine, and
pouring forth words in a strange dialect he pointed wildly to another flight of steps and another
door. Following this menial, a veritable deus ex machina, X. was led down those palatial steps
and up another flight round the corner. There the gardener threw open a door and seemed disposed
to resign his custody of the stranger, preparing to return again to his machine. But X. steadily
declined to enter alone into that vast hall, nor would he even stay to look for a book in which
to write his name, for he felt that the hasty retreat he had heard was not carried beyond the
nearest pillars, and each moment he tarried, the fugitives were wondering what he could be
doing while, alas, their tea was getting cold. And so he thrust his card, his only guarantee
of good faith, into the soiled hand of the solitary attendant of this Eastern palace and fled--but
fled he hoped with dignity. As he walked down the avenue with conscious and deliberate steps--admiring
the view on the right of him and the view on the left of him--never looking back, though the
desire for one glance was so overpowering that the nape of his neck actually ached, he conquered,
and finally emerged from those great gates without any further satisfaction to the curiosity
aroused by his first involuntary glimpse. But so long as he remained in Java he never paid
another call before dusk, a more convenient time, when such contretemps are not likely to occur.

CHAPTER XII.

A MODEL ESTATE

X. was informed that the proper journey from Buitenzorg was by carriage via Poentjuk to Sindanglaya,
where a stay should be made at Gezondleid's establishment after securing an upstairs room.
The next stage in the traveller's journey is to Tjandjoer and thence to Garvet. And after a
week at Garvet on again to Djoedja, Solo, Semarang, etc., but the traveller had already had
sufficient of hotel life in Java, and so determined to at once avail himself of a kind invitation
he had received to stay on an estate, not many miles from Soekaboemi. After a few hours' rail
in a first-class carriage (this fact is worth recording as it was very seldom that such accommodation
could be had, even if a first-class ticket had been issued), he duly reached the station where
he had been instructed to alight. Here his host had sent two ponies to meet him, one for himself
and one for his servant, as well as several coolies to carry his luggage. So, Abu being left
at the house of the stationmaster in care of the rest of the luggage (a terrible quantity,
the cost of its transport almost equalled the first-class fare of its owner), X., followed
by Usoof, started on the ten mile ride which led to their destination. The path was a very
rough one, and for the first portion of the distance the way was through an open country planted
with padi as far as the eye could reach. The little ponies cared nothing for the stony path,
and went gamely along as though accustomed to canter on a hard high road. After crossing the
valley the route began to ascend the range of hills, at the summit of which, 2,000 feet high,
the estate was situated. For almost the entire length of this ascent the view was so glorious
that the traveller continued to exclaim in wonder to his companion to stop and look. Usoof
who, as has been related, was a native of the country, affected to gaze at it with the unconcern
of a proprietor, merely reminding his master that he had always said, that his was a very fine
country. For miles below the padi fields stretched away narrowing in the distance, and here
and there amidst this expanse of emerald green were dotted little clumps of green of a darker
shade, these being the trees surrounding the clusters of houses inhabited by the fortunate
owners of the land. And every now and again athwart the green carpet, stretched out below,
glittered belts of water sparkling like silver in the sun. The hills, which were also all planted
with padi, looked like grassy slopes with a back-ground formed by terraces of hill-tops. One
above the other they lay in ranges, until, in the furthest distance, mountains of noble height
towered like giants above them all. It surely was a view worth going far to see, a wealth of
green such as an untravelled eye could not even dimly realise. No troubles of travel, no greasy
cookery or breadless meals could matter one jot if this was the reward. The view repaid the
enterprise even if the path by which it were approached led only to a wayside inn of the most
unpretentious type, but its joys were enhanced by the anticipation of a visit to a couple well
known for their hospitality to strangers. The host being a fellow-countryman who had had the
good fortune to marry a Dutch lady of most distinguished family. Almost at the summit of the
hill, about eight miles from the station, stood a little halting house bearing the English-looking
signboard with the legend of the "Pig and Whistle." Here refreshments awaited the travellers,
and then the journey was continued along a jungle path which shortly emerged on to the cultivated
slopes of the estate. These slopes were covered with cinchona trees, which X. afterwards learnt
were in process of being rapidly replaced by tea-plants. Presently at a dip in the road the
first glimpse was caught of the house below. A little English cottage, it appeared, nestling
cosily in a hollow, close beside a mountain stream. A nearer approach revealed that the cottage
was covered with blue convolvulus and other creepers, and that the verandahs were enclosed
with glass. It all reminded him somehow of a well-known cottage by Boulter's Lock, and there
came a curious thrill of home memories at the sight of a typical English home. On the further
side of the stream stood a little detached pavilion, kept exclusively for guests, after the
fashion of all Dutch houses in the East. This annexe is generally considered the house of the
elder son, but it is more usually built and used for the accommodation of guests; an excellent
arrangement in a country where both entertainers and entertained wish occasionally to repose
in attire, whose lightness is best suited to the climate. A rustic bridge connected the two
buildings, and just above it was the bath room, into which a portion of the stream had been
diverted, so as to form a natural shower bath. The stream and bridge and cottage, with their
back-ground of hills and fore-ground of roses, combined to make such a picture that X. longed
to be able to sketch it and take it away and keep it. The interior of this cottage was as cosy
and home-like as the outside promised it would be, and, wonder of wonders! it had real wall
paper on the walls. This almost unheard of luxury in the East was a triumph of the skill of
the hostess, and had so far successfully defied the ravages of mildew and damp. The chief characteristic
of the house was that it looked like a home, its tasteful decoration and contents indicating
that the inhabitants had come to stay. Most houses in the East have an unmistakeable air of
being mere temporary shelters, where the owners are lodging till they can get away to their
household goods now warehoused "at home."

This was only the second house X. had seen in this part of the world, where the owners looked
as if they lived in it (the other was in Selangor). In this ideal spot it was the good fortune
of the traveller to spend some days--days pleasantly spent in riding about the estate--which
he soon grew to covet, and in watching the planting of the tea, which, it was hoped, would
eventually enable the kind host and hostess to return with wealth to their native land. The
climate at this elevation was delightful, cool, and invigorating, and it was possible to follow
English hours and habits. Instead of getting up at 5 a.m. to go for a ride, as was the custom
in Pura Pura, X. found himself starting for a ride after breakfast, about ten o'clock, without
fear of the sun, and this total change lifted his spirits, and he recorded silent thanks to
The Community who had suggested Java for his jaunt.

As may be imagined, during his stay in the hills the visitor was able to learn much about the
country, and hear many things that not only interested him, but excited his admiration for
the administration of the precise and order-loving race who owned this beautiful island. Contrary
to what he had been led to believe, chiefly, perhaps, by a book which had given currency to
the impression, he found that the planters were greatly assisted by the Government officials,
who endeavour to work with them, and, whenever possible, to meet their wishes. The coolies
certainly all appeared happy, when X. got accustomed to seeing them crouch servilely in the
ditches when he or his host passed by. English officials in the native states of the Peninsula
are accustomed to pass their lives amongst the Malays, to listen to and help them in their
troubles, and to be constantly surrounded by them as followers or companions, and the inmates
and affairs of each household are known, much as those of the cottagers on his estate would
be to a home-staying country squire in England. It can then be understood how strange it seemed
to X. to ride amongst people of the same race and see them crouch down as he passed, not even
daring to lift their eyes, as it is counted an offence should they meet the gaze of one of
the ruling race. What could the latter really know of these people, he wondered, when knowledge
had to be obtained from across such a social gulf as this. He could not conceal the disagreeable
impression made upon him, but many reasons were afterwards given to him as to why this state
of things should exist, and some of them were, he was compelled to admit, good ones. The chief
and foremost was, perhaps, that all Javanese customs and manners are full of exaggerated formality
and etiquette. These the Dutch adopted as they found them, including all outward tokens of
respect for those of superior rank, deeming that all Europeans should be treated with the same
ceremony as the native headman.

One of the other reasons given was that the Dutch, being a small nation and unable to keep
a large force in the country, must rely upon keeping the natives down in their proper place--under
foot--for the continuance of the supremacy they had achieved. X., as others would do, can only
hope that this view, though heard from several sources, was given to him "sarcastic like,"
and that it was expected he would duly appreciate the irony. And perhaps he did, seeing that
he came from a country where, without the presence of a single soldier, the widely scattered,
and in many cases isolated, officials can act as the friends and advisers of a native race
without the least fear of any loss of dignity or position, both accepted as so much a matter
of course as to make any question regarding them impossible.

Java is, perhaps, the most governed country in the world. This phrase is not the writer's;
he merely quotes an opinion to be found in books on Java, written by men entitled to judge,
and frequently expressed by people our traveller met in that island. The people are united
by what might be described as chains of officials, and each link in each chain submits periodically
precise reports on everything and everybody within his charge. The system sounds flawless,
and the head of all, the chief official in the country, has thus pigeon-holed in front of him
more detailed and readily-found information about his subjects than is, perhaps, possessed
by any other ruler in the world. This is a matter which might excite admiration, and there
is no doubt that it in some respects merits it, and the contrast presented to our own system
of government in the adjacent mainland is worthy of examination. But it would be out of place
in a book which professes to do no more than describe a pleasant tour, and X.'s opinion upon
a question of such gravity, even though formed after a lengthy sojourn amongst the Malays,
and no little personal experience of the life and manners of an Eastern people, may be omitted.
It may be recorded, however, that the question made him ponder, and he wondered if the officials
who knew everybody also knew everything, and whether many matters worthy of record did not
find themselves washed on one side as the stream of reports wound its way from one native official
to another, then to the subordinate European officials (sometimes married to native women),
and then once more on to the pigeon-holes of the central authority. As I write I have before
me a list of fifteen titles of native officials given to X. by one of themselves. There is
no need to enumerate them here, though allusion to them may suggest the possibilities of the
various stages of the journey to the final pigeon-holes.

Natives themselves have evidently formed opinions on these matters, since in some of the native
states of the Peninsula it was always the custom of the people to invite a raja from another
country to come and rule over them, experience having taught them that a man with interest
and relations in the country might not always be sufficiently impartial; in the same manner
the native Mahommedan priest is always selected from another nationality. However, to return
to the place where we left X. riding along amongst the young tea plants. When the coolies were
not running away from him or crouching to avoid the shock of meeting his imperial glance, he
was bound to admit that they were apparently happy and contented, and, seeing the circumstances
under which they lived, it would have been strange had they not been so. These people were
provided with ample work within easy reach of their homes, which lay among the surrounding
hills. It seemed an earthly labour paradise to an official, accustomed to hear the complaints
of planters lamenting losses due to their labourers, imported coolies from India, China or
Java, running away. Not only is the lot of the coolies in Java more conducive to content than
those in the Peninsula, but the planter is also happier in the current rate of wages; 20 to
25 cents a day (Java cents) and for women 15 cents. On this estate, as on most others, there
was a festival fund for the coolies, that is a certain sum of money is spent annually on their
recreation, providing for musical instruments and paying for travelling shows, etc. X. felt
that he had had the best of shows provided for him, a show estate, where the supply of labour
was cheap and unlimited, and the people well cared for without any elaborate legislation being
required for their protection. Here at any rate was a positive result of the administration
of the Dutch, and a confutation of the stories of down-trodden peasants in Java; and the traveller
made up his mind that if possible he would one day be a planter and that his plantation should
be in Java.

CHAPTER XIII.

AMONG THE ROSES.

Life was so smooth and even in this little cottage by the river that days flew by with that
pleasant rapidity which leaves nothing to record except a general sense of restful enjoyment.
One expedition, however, might be described, a visit paid to a neighbouring estate which had
been advertised for sale, as giving a glimpse of a typical phase of up-country life. The call
was paid about noon, and after riding down a steep hill, where natives were busily engaged
in planting tea, the two Englishmen came upon a little square white house half hidden in a
bend in the stream. This building had a deserted, untidy look which was intensified by the
state of the garden which surrounded it; even at some distance from the house the scent of
roses was perceptible, and in the garden itself, if such a wilderness deserves the name, the
odour was almost overpowering. The place was a miniature forest of rose-bushes, loaded with
lovely blossoms, roses such as X. had not seen since he left his native land. Everything looked
untidy and ragged and ruined; the house, the creepers, the rose bushes, the grass, the pigeon
lofts all spoke of neglect and want of money to put them straight, a want caused by the fall
in the price of cinchona, a misfortune which had involved many a fair estate and reduced it
to the desolate and unkempt condition exemplified by the one now visited. But even unkempt
and uncared for, what a picture it made! It was the realisation of a poetic death--the victim
smothered by roses beside the singing waters of a brook. It was a long time before any one
came, and the two visitors sat in the verandah feeling rather shy and uncomfortable, for this
was the neighbour's first visit, and the native, who had ushered them in, vanished, sending
weird cries around the tangled garden paths as though to summon his master home.

At length, after long waiting, the silence and suspense, and the wonder of who would come,
from which direction, and when, grew almost unbearable, and the absurd situation so wrought
on their nerves that both visitors gave vent to little gasps of laughter, brought on probably
by the same nervous sensations which compel children to misbehave in church--direct promptings
of the evil one, inducing a desire to do that which we know we should not do. At length, after
it had been debated in hurried whispers whether a departure could not be effected, the lady
of the house appeared upon the scene. She was a tall, large lady, in appearance typically Dutch.
She wore the usual white linen jacket and skimpy sarong, and her legs were bare. She gave a
cordial greeting in Dutch, at least to X. it was Dutch, for he knew nothing whatever of the
language. This his friend carefully explained, so he surmised, as the lady gave vent to various
guttural exclamations of astonishment and turned to gaze at him as though he were indeed a
strange person to behold.

The conversation between the two then continued glibly, and X. was quite forgotten, and he
felt neglected and grew fidgety, realizing that he extremely disliked this novel sensation
of being ignored, without the possibility of attracting any attention to himself by a remark.
He was soon to learn however, that those trifling inconveniences of which we are cognizant
are generally less unpleasant than those we do not know, for presently there was a stir and
a general rising from seats as the husband of the good lady emerged from the house on to the
verandah. This gentleman was tall and dark, with a pointed grey beard like an American in a
caricature. He was clothed in a strange deshabille, which ended in bare feet thrust loosely
into carpet slippers, and when the eyes of the visitors reached thus far they realized why
his complexion was so dark. After the first greetings the host--who X. afterwards learnt had
once held high office under Government, which he gave up for planting--turned towards him and
proceeded to harangue him without full stops. There is no other way to describe what took place,
as he continued to pour language at his guest without the least apparent desire for reply.
To say that the visitor felt uncomfortable would be to mildly describe his feelings--he had
wished for recognition, and surely had it now. What would his host think of him, if he allowed
him to continue to talk and never informed him that he could not understand one word of Dutch?
Again and again he endeavoured to stem the torrent of words and explain both in English and
in French, and this being of no avail, at the risk of appearing rude and inattentive, X. turned
to his friend and begged him to make the matter clear. The friend said something in Dutch,
but he must, it seemed, have said the wrong thing, since it had not the slightest effect, and
the host continued his talk, probably all about the advantages of the estate he wished to sell.
Then, regarding the situation as hopeless, X. fixed his expression into one of intelligent
attention and waited for him to stop. But he was not so attentive that he did not presently
hear the good lady say something to his friend which caused him to exclaim as though astonished,
and with a suppressed click of a laugh he turned to X. and said, "It's all right. Madame has
just told me he is stone deaf and can't hear a word, so it's no use my saying anything, he
would understand you as well." "But can't the lady tell him I don't know Dutch?" exclaimed
X. almost desperately--but too late, for by this time his friend was again deeply engaged in
conversation with his hostess, and there was nothing to be done but once more give his assumed
attention to his host. A pleasant situation truly, to go to a man's house for the first time
and so conduct yourself that you feel certain he will presently believe that it was your intention
to deliberately insult and make a fool of him. X. will never forget that quarter of an hour.
At last the conversation ended by its appearing that the lady had suggested, and her visitor
agreed to, a walk round the estate. When he gathered this, X. eagerly seconded the proposition,
but it took all joy out of it to find that the verbose proprietor insisted upon accompanying
them himself to do the honours of the place. It was in vain that X. endeavoured to plant him
on his friend, for his prolonged assumption of intelligent interest had apparently been so
successful, that his host was flattered and never left his side. However, a few climbs up slippery
by-paths--I fear deliberately chosen--soon dislodged the slippers, and the poor man was compelled
to heed what, it is hoped, he interpreted as polite entreaties not to put himself out for his
visitors and return to the house. Then ensued a tour of the estate, which had once been of
great promise and now, alas, was overrun with undergrowth and weed. After their walk the Englishmen
found that the most hospitable preparations had been made for their entertainment, and, more,
that these had evidently been seen to by a daughter whose presence had not before been observed.
Would I could describe this young girl as she appeared to X., who has confessed that he found
it quite impossible to find words with which to paint a picture which could do her the scantiest
justice. Simply attired in the same costume as her mother, but oh, how becoming that costume
can be! This charming apparition carried round the glasses and offered wine to the visitors,
while X. wished heartily that the dear old host would harangue him ever so long that he might
keep silence and watch--watch this dainty, dark-eyed maiden, who looked as if she had stepped
out of some old picture to render those little domestic services after the custom of days gone
by; and as he received his glass from the charming attendant, he endeavoured to think what
it was this kindly service most called to mind, and in his memory he found it in those hospitable
houses in New Zealand beyond the Bay of Islands where once he visited, and all the daily life
was like a glimpse of a century that had passed. But though visiting was good, X. was soon
wanting to improve his position and show that he was capable of taking a more active part in
the conversation than he had hitherto done, and so reckless of his host's disgust at a sudden
lack of attention, he rose and went to the side table to sniff at the beautiful flowers and
peep at the sample sacks of coffee which lay piled in the corner of the room. But such little
wiles to obtain speech with the modest maiden were of small use, when one party spoke English
and the other Dutch, while neither of them knew both. It is true that X. could have carried
on a conversation in Malay, and he was sure that that language would be well known to all the
family, but he had been warned that people in Java did not like to be addressed in a language
they considered fit only for a medium of communication with their servants. An invitation to
stay and lunch was refused--in Dutch--and the planter friend afterwards explained that he had
done so, as he thought X. would not have liked to go without bread, since in such establishments
up country bread was never found. As if--under the circumstances--X. would have cared whether
he ate bread or rice, provided the rose-nymph had handed it to him; and so alas! they rode
away beyond the fragrance of the roses and through the neglected grounds, carrying with them
a new memory of home life which it will be hard to forget. The shabby, neglected house--the
sacks of coffee and flowers run riot--the deaf, courteous ex-official, perhaps proud of his
descent from some great Makassar chief--the kindly lady, embodiment of perfect health, who
long ago had left her home in Europe for life in a distant land with the husband of her choice--and
last but not least of all these impressions of that day--their child--reared in a glorious
country unspoilt by contact with civilization--simple, unaffected, a picture from the past.

CHAPTER XIV.

GARVET.

After leaving the cottage on the estate X. started for Garvet. The view from the train, as
it reached its destination, was certainly one of the most beautiful that could be imagined.
Long reaches of padi fields, backed by hills in a high state of cultivation, and the whole
watered by little gushing torrents that looked cool and refreshing in the all-surrounding sun.

It is impossible to describe the scenery as it appeared to the traveller, or in any way to
do it justice. It is altogether new and unlike anything seen in other countries, with the exception,
perhaps, of Ceylon or Japan, and it is worth a journey from Europe to see.

The hotel at Garvet proved to be a combination of little buildings, scattered about in the
gardens surrounding the main buildings, or across the road in enclosures of their own. X. obtained
one of these cottages, and felt that he would be fairly comfortable, till an inspection of
the bathing arrangements made him shudder.

When dinner time arrived, table d'hote also served to dispel illusions. There was the same
absence of punkah, the same glaring light, and succession of half-cooked clammy dishes. There
were only a few diners, apparently mostly residents of the place who boarded at the hotel.
These gentlemen had put on black coats, and made a kind of toilet for the evening meal. But
the penance they thus endured was brief, as, after hastily disposing of sufficient of the viands
to satisfy their individual wants, they retired to their verandahs, where X. soon saw them
reclining in all the comfort of pyjamas and bare feet. Apparently the coating of civilization
was not sufficiently thin to be congenial.

In the morning the traveller went to pay his respects to the Assistant-Resident, who received
him very kindly, and gave him all the information he required. This rather interrupted the
work of the office as, whenever the Assistant-Resident turned to any employee to ask how far
such and such a place might be distant, or the tariff of carriages, etc., the person so addressed,
no matter how engaged, would, before reply, immediately flop on to his knees. The Regent was
also calling on the representative of the Government, and to him the Englishman was introduced.
This native functionary was fat and well-looking, but did not seem to exactly bristle with
intelligence.

The Assistant-Resident very kindly conversed freely with his visitor about matters affecting
the natives, and gave him much information, which, from the nature of his own work in Pura
Pura, interested him greatly. To those whom the subject interests, the land system in Java
is too well known to need comment here, but there were a few facts learnt by X. which should
remove any idea amongst those who have not studied the question, that the laws were either
harsh or intricate. Indeed, they seem to attain that brevity and simplicity which are the great
desideratum when dealing with a native peasantry. Thus, a man need pay no rent until his land
is in bearing. Coffee is the only product whose sale to Government is compulsory. All land
is classified and subject to a fixed rent, there is therefore a safeguard that the fruits of
an owner's industry will not be taxed. Anyone can complain if he thinks his land is rated too
high, and should be in a lower class, and the complaint receives immediate attention. Though
the population is large, there is seldom any trouble about boundary marks in the padi fields.
Owners are content with long custom and local knowledge, and their reliance on their host of
native officials never fails. All new land must be fenced round, if it is contiguous to Government
land, and on all plantations people must themselves plant trees as boundaries and upkeep them.
And one register of titles with columns filled in and signed, according to its cultivation
and classification, answers for all. Lastly, let it be mentioned that there is a golden rule,
that a native cannot sell his land to anyone but his own countrymen, neither to European, Arab
or Chinese. Thus no individual, tempted by the speculation, can by his selfish action, cause
harm or annoyance to his neighbours. This one register of titles, mentioned above, is gradually
filled in and signed as the land is brought into cultivation, and an exact record is thus kept
of the actual present condition of each native holding. When finally signed, and the land yields
produce, rent is demanded. The advantage of simplicity can only be realized by those whose
lot it has been to pose as the bringer of glad tidings, and expound the advantages of the last
new land code with its many paragraphs to an ignorant native population, who, unreasoning,
tenaciously cling to the title which they already hold and think they understand, obstinately
refusing, speak the speaker never so plausibly, to exchange it for the very newest that can
be given to them from the most up-to-date land code in existence.

After his interview with the courteous official, X. departed, pondering on all he had heard,
and bearing with him a memo, on which was written the various places of interest which he had
been recommended to visit in the neighbourhood. On his return to the hotel the traveller passed
what appeared to be the local club.

The first thing an English official in an outstation in India or the Peninsula will do for
a stranger arriving with introductions, is to offer to put him up for the club, and unless
there seem strong reason against it, he will most probably ask him to dinner. Apparently this
was not the custom here, and so X. was free to wander about the little town and explore, with
nothing more exciting to look forward to than a repetition of last night's gruesome meal in
company with the suffering tenants of the prandial coats.

CHAPTER XV.

BATHS AND VOLCANOES.

Garvet seemed to boast of an enormous population for there were endless rows, or rather groups
of houses, crowded together, face to face, back to back, and side by side, giving the idea
of a casual conglomeration of several villages. All these were scrupulously clean and neat,
and fenced round with little bamboo rails. Nearly every house had a tiled roof, and all were
of a superior class to the majority of those up country in the Peninsula. The streets were
little short of marvellously swept and clean, and it was decided by X. during that walk that
Garvet was the cleanest Eastern town he had ever seen--the capital of Pura Pura of course excepted.
Much had been talked of about the hot baths at Tji Panao, and so the traveller determined to
make that his first excursion. Hiring a conveyance drawn by three ponies abreast--reminding
him of his early youth when he would wonder at a smart turn-out in the Park at home--three
ponies abreast driven by a well known leader of society and fashion, before the days of two-wheeled
pony carts and bicycles, X. told the driver to go to Tji Panao, and looked forward to spending
a delicious half hour lying in warm water like that of the springs in New Zealand, which send
the bather forth invigorated and refreshed. Another disillusion was in store for him, however,
in this country where nature has done so much and man--for comfort--so little. The baths were
located in a shed on the side of a hill. This shed had three partitions. In each partition
was a shallow brick hole in which it was possible to sit. The hot water was conveyed into these
holes by means of pipes, one at the head of each. The floor all round the bath was dirty, and
the only furniture was one cane chair. The depth of the water in the baths was about three
inches, and in this on slimy bricks the bather had to sit miserably, with the lower portion
of his body immersed in warm water while the upper remained high and dry in the comparatively
cool air above. X. had made preparations for a prolonged stay in the water, and came provided
with literature to pass the time, but a very brief dip under the circumstances proved enough,
and he soon unhitched his clothing from the back of the chair and prepared to depart. Close
by these baths was a building containing four rooms, apparently a Government Rest House, very
well furnished and comfortable, so it was evident that people came there on purpose to make
use of the baths. The hot water springs possess great capabilities, and with a little trouble
and expenditure of money they should become both enjoyable and a source of revenue.

There were one or two other excursions to be made from Garvet, but the only one worthy of mention
was that which was made to the volcano at Tjiseroepan. One morning, together with Usoof and
Abu, for X. was growing tired of sight seeing all alone, having obtained permission from the
kind Assistant-Resident to use the Government Rest House, he drove to Tjiseroepan. The road
was excellent and the route, needless to say, lay through a beautiful country. Here, as everywhere
else, all well-to-do natives were riding ponies. The distance was thirteen miles. Tjiseroepan
is a little village in the hills at the foot of the mountain which it was proposed to ascend
on the following day. The traveller was received by the Assistant Wodena, a native official
who had been riding suspiciously behind and before the carriage during the last two miles.
After reading the credentials of the stranger and finding that he could converse in Malay,
the local magnate became quite cordial, and made X. free of the Government Rest House. This
was well furnished with beds and tables, etc., but glass and crockery were not provided.

The Assistant Wodena conducted the visitor round the village, which was a model of neatness.
Each house stood in a garden, growing coffee, vegetables, and strawberries. The head of the
village and a few others live in very good houses, and there seemed to be ponies without number.
The village perched on a slope and the cultivated hillside bore some resemblance to a scene
in the South of Italy. The usual signs of prosperity and content reigned everywhere, and neither
in this village, nor elsewhere, where X. conversed with the natives could he find anything
to explain the commonly accepted view that the people of Java are inimical to their rulers.

The Rest House proved comfortable, X. had brought his own provisions, which his servants cooked,
and for once he enjoyed a hot and palatable meal. There was plenty of opportunity for conversation
with the Assistant Wodena, who was quite willing to discourse on the customs of the country,
and he gave a most interesting account of the elaborate etiquette of Javanese Rajas, and of
the extraordinary deference paid by commoners to rank. He in his turn asked many questions
concerning Malacca and the Malay Straits, about which his interlocutor was able to give him
all the information sought for.

The next morning the sightseer and his followers ascended the mountain on ponies to see the
volcano. This was a kind of inferno with wicked mouths which looked like ventilators from the
bowels of the earth spitting and hissing blinding steam.

The whole face of the mountain was yellow with sulphur, and the air was sickening from its
smell. Usoof and Abu were not a little terrified by this awful experience, and grasped their
Tuan by the arm entreating him not to venture near what, they evidently thought, were the gates
of hell.

I feel that I have paid sufficient deference to my instructions in recording the impressions
the scenery made upon the traveller, and shall therefore omit all mention of what he saw while
descending the mountain. He described it as wonderful, and those of my readers who have arrived
thus far will be prepared to admit the accuracy of the description.

The party reached Garvet in time to catch the two o'clock train to Tassikmalaja, and thus make
a start for Tjilatjap.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE QUEST FOR A MOTHER.

To start for Tjilatjap was such an unusual departure that it merits a chapter all to itself.
No one had apparently left Garvet for Tjilatjap for years, since it had been pronounced to
be one of the most unhealthy places in the island. The correct thing for every traveller to
do is to go to Tassikmalaya for the night and proceed from thence to Djoeja by train, go by
carriage to Beroboeddoer, where a halt for the night can be made at a Government Rest House.
The drive is twenty-five miles. The next morning the traveller should drive ten miles further
to Magelang, while his luggage goes by train or bullock cart. From Magelang Amberawa is reached
by another drive of twenty miles, and from here the railway can be taken to Semerang or back
to Djoeja, and from there to Solo, a three hours' journey.

X. was informed that everyone took this route, but he persisted in starting for Tjilatjap,
notwithstanding that the lady who presided over the hotel assured him that it was the most
fever stricken port in the country. Had he known then as much as he subsequently learnt of
the evil reputation of the place it is probable that the traveller might have changed his plans.
As it was, he only replied that he was inured to fever and did not mind. At that time he had
no particular reason for going to one place more than another, and therefore the one which
drove him in this direction was good enough to serve his purpose. Usoof desired to commence
the search for his mother. He had no recollection of the village where he was born, but believed
it to be somewhere near the coast which, considering the country was an island, was somewhat
a vague indication. After assisting his Tuan to study a map he exclaimed that the name Tjilatjap
sounded familiar to him, and sure enough it was a large town on the coast. Now, he argued,
it could not be familiar unless he had heard it before, and that could only have been when
he was in Java, and as he was then little more than a baby, only the names of places in the
neighbourhood of his birth place could have been familiar to him. It mattered little to X.
where he went, the further away from the beaten track, the more opportunity for studying the
natives and learning something of their lives. So he readily agreed to go to Tjilatjap. It
was only after all plans had been settled that its evil reputation for fever was heard of.

The first stage of the journey was to Tassimalaja, and, leaving Garvet at two, they arrived
there in time for dinner. So far as could be judged from a very brief stay during the dark
hours and early morning, this seemed a pretty little country town, but the train left early
and there was little time to look about. The first important stop was at Maos, where a change
had to be made. Among the passengers was an Englishman whom X. had met some ten years before
in New York. He was going the orthodox round to Ojoedja and Semarang. The two Englishmen, both
experienced travellers, exchanged views as to their respective impressions of Java, and both
agreed that, wherever they went, the courtesy and assistance received equalled if they did
not exceed any they had met with in other portions of the globe they had trotted over. At Maos
their ways separated, though fate brought them together again on board the steamer to Singapore.

Another companion of the journey was a versatile young Dutchman who spoke many languages and
proved to be very good company. This gentleman apparently had no great admiration for his fellow-countrymen,
as he saw them in Java. He abused with equal impartiality the food and the manner of life,
and declared that the Dutch in Java were devoid both of digestion and energy. They were in
fact half dead from bad food and too much sleep. This communicative companion also gave his
views on the civil service, which had gradually grown from the stage, when anyone could be
pitchforked into it, to its present condition, when both brains and interest are required to
achieve the entry to its rank. Let a man once get in (the views are those of the communicative
Dutchman), his fortune was made, if he only kept quiet and was satisfied to slip along in the
common groove. He must implicitly follow prescribed rules and obey his immediate superior blindly,
sinking all individual conscience and identity. Should he have views for his own self-advancement
or to assist the people, should he economize Government money and reduce the number of road-coolies
or police, who actually officiate in the household as cooks, gardeners, or grooms, should he
try to set a good example and relinquish perquisites, "that man" exclaimed the speaker "is
lost, and had better return to Holland forthwith." Such were the views of his travelling companion,
but what opportunity he had had for forming them, and whether they were justified by actual
facts, X. did not know, or greatly care, so long as he found his company amusing, which he
did until their arrival at Tjilatjap. Here his opinion was somewhat modified, when his voluble
companion, profiting by superior experience, annexed the only decent room in the hotel and
exulted over the ruse which secured it for him.

When X. first announced in the train that he was bound for Tjilatjap there was a chorus of
exclamations, and his companions evidently thought him eccentric. Had he also explained his
reason for going, there would have been little doubt on the subject. It was then he learnt
that Tjilatjap had formerly been a garrison town, but it had been found necessary to abandon
it on account of the high rate of mortality among the troops. It was not till after the change
at Maos that the young Dutchman acknowledged that Tjilatjap was also his destination, being
probably unwilling to appear eccentric in the eyes of his fellow-countrymen who remained in
the Djoeja carriage.

CHAPTER XVII.

THE QUEST CONTINUED--TJILATJAP.

Tjilatjap was reached at midday. The town had an imposing appearance, all the streets being
planted with avenues of large trees. X. drove at once to the hotel, where he was given a room
like a horse-box with the sun streaming into it. As mentioned above, he subsequently ascertained
that his travelling companion had managed to secure the only decent room in the hotel, and
X. did not feel any love for the stranger, who had taken what he felt to be an unfair advantage
of his local innocence. He only wished he could hand him over to the tender mercies of the
most muscular and irritable member of the civil service, after relating how he had libelled
it. There was lunch lying ready spread on the table and its appearance was satisfactory. Next
day he noticed that this meal was laid hot at 9.30 daily, and left cooling until far on in
the afternoon. Being hungry, the distant view of the table looked inviting, and X. prepared
for a hearty meal. But his joyful expectation gave way to something like disgust on discovering,
what a nearer approach revealed, that each article of food was firmly congealed in its own
gravy. But no one else seemed to mind, and a party opposite--father, mother and daughter--ate
of these provisions as though they were delicacies hot from the kitchen of the Savoy or Bignon's.
Strolling out a little later to smoke a cigarette and try to persuade himself he had lunched,
the visitor spied the proprietor of the hotel, his family and some favoured guests, enjoying
cakes, and what appeared to be Madeira, and fruit in the verandah. As sleep in that sunbaked
oven of a room was impossible, the traveller sent for a carriage and went for a drive. The
appearance of all the houses that he passed gave the idea that every one inside them was asleep,
but their stillness was counterbalanced by the busy crowds of natives going to and fro along
those avenues of wonderful trees.

Later in the day X. sallied forth to call on the Assistant Resident. He had been informed at
the hotel that this official was not visible between the hours of 11 a.m. and 7 p.m.--rather
a long period of retirement.

As it was growing dark X. walked up to the house, a far superior residence to the one at Garvet.
The lady of the house and her family were starting for the evening drive, not daring to venture
out before this late hour. The Assistant Resident, apparently a very young man, received his
visitor with great cordiality and gave him all the information in his power, promising his
assistance if he wished to go further up country. It should be stated that, arrived at Tjilatjap,
Usoof's memory received a filip, and he recollected that the town of Jombong, not far off,
had been the chief place near his "kampong." On hearing this, the Assistant Resident promised
to send a letter to the Wodena or native magistrate of the village, who lived at Soempioet
and could let him stay in his house. This exactly met the wishes of X., who had been only wanting
an opportunity to see more of the native life in Java, away from the track of hotels and tame
curio sellers, who differed but little in one town from another. While the traveller was paying
this call, another visitor arrived. This was no less a personage than the President of the
Landraad. After they had left, he hospitably invited the Englishman into the club, where they
played billiards. The great man made himself most agreeable and was quite ready to impart to
his companion all he might wish to hear about the duties of the local government officers.
He learnt that the Assistant Resident exercised a very limited jurisdiction as magistrate,
and all cases, excepting the most trivial, are brought before the Landraad. The post held by
this cheery official was evidently most congenial, and he explained with much satisfaction
how he had to be frequently travelling, and what a liberal allowance he could draw while doing
so. It need be liberal, thought his hearer, to compensate for a course of feeding in Java hotels.
But sympathy on this point was wasted, as the President of the Landraad alluded to the one,
at which it appeared they were both staying, and spoke of it as comfortable. Billiards over,
it was time to return to the hotel for dinner. This meal, probably more owing to the lamp-light
than to any inherent superiority, seemed an improvement on the last one, had not the diners
made it unnecessarily uncomfortable by treating it as though it were a hurried snack at the
counter of a railway refreshment room. For instance, three or four times during the progress
of the meal callers came to see the courteous President, who cheerfully left the table to interview
them, returning with equanimity to the discussion of the chilled dishes at whatever stage of
the feast he chanced on when he returned. The table was not cleared away after the sorry farce
of dinner was over, and X. noticed, as late as ten and even half-past ten o'clock, late diners
strolling in to feed on the ever less appetising remains. X. recalled the words of his companion
in the train, and thought he at least had some justification for his remarks on the digestions,
or the want of them, of his fellow-countrymen in Java.

The chief thing for intending travellers in Java to recollect is the difficulty of obtaining
money, since no one will look at a cheque, as people in that country do not use them. It is
necessary, therefore, to take ready money and rely upon periodical remittances sent by registered
letter from the bank. At Garvet X. had his first experience of pecuniary trouble through having
placed confidence in his cheque book, backed by the special permit signed by the Governor General
of the Netherlands India. He had invested in some Java ponies and thus outrun all calculations
as to expenditure. The hotel people would not look at his cheque, though they certainly looked
at the owner of it with the careful scrutiny born of suspicion. Very troubled, he had called
at all the chief shops and places of business in the town asking assistance, and assuring merchants
of his bona fides, as they scanned his cheque and passed it from one to another as a curiosity
such as none of them had ever seen before. At length good fortune appeared in the shape of
a Mr. Schmidt. One of those who had endeavoured to grasp some meaning from the cheque, explained
that he believed this kind of thing was seen in Europe, and they had better call Mr. Schmidt,
who not only had been there within the last two years, but also spoke a little English. X.
eagerly seconded the suggestion, and Mr. Schmidt appeared. His verdict was anxiously awaited,
but especially by the owner of the cheque, whose future movements must depend on the decision,
and his relief was great when the good, the discerning, the up-to-date Mr. Schmidt pronounced
in his favour. He declared that, certainly he had seen such cheques before, and generously
offered to cash it himself. Thus the situation was saved, and the stranger was able to carry
out his arrangements and pay his debts. Good Mr. Schmidt! that stranger remembers you with
gratitude. Here, in Tjilatjap, X. was again threatened with penury, for, though he had telegraphed
for money, the little registered packet had so far not appeared. Perhaps his bankers could
not really credit that he had gone to a place with such a reputation as Tjilatjap. But it was
because of this reputation that X. was unwilling to prolong his stay there beyond what was
actually necessary, and, therefore, sending off the Malays with the luggage, remained behind,
relying upon the arrival of the money by the morning post. He utilised the opportunity of this
enforced stay to visit the hospital. The hospitals in the Native States of the Peninsula are
perhaps the chief signs of the civilization, of which their Government may be proud, seeing
that in them natives of all nationalities are splendidly housed and have the best of medical
attendance free. It was, therefore, interesting for the Englishman who hailed from that Peninsula
to see how, in a large town like Tjilatjap in Java, these things were done.

He had the good fortune to be most courteously shown over the building by the doctor in charge.
It was somewhat of a surprise to find that there were few patients in the hospital, notwithstanding
the reputation of the place for fever, and to learn that the average number of sick amongst
the natives was not noticeably in excess of other towns.

The whole building was a picture of neatness and cleanliness. The walls were made of bertam
(a kind of plaited reed) so as to be easily destroyed and replaced in case of infection. The
floors were of cement and raised off the ground. This hospital has only been started two years,
and, at the present time, possesses fifty beds. The bathing places in particular merited attention,
the floors being tiled, while large tanks of brick and cement contained the water supply--baths
are provided for feeble patients. The most elaborate building was the dead-house, where all
the latest improvements were to be seen. There was, and is, a European ward where patients
can be treated for three guilders a day. Another building, standing a little apart, was for
Europeans of a better class who could afford to pay six guilders a-day, "but," the doctor added,
"they never come." The hospital is free for all natives, and, contrary to what is frequently
the case elsewhere, the authorities seem to experience no difficulty in inducing them to go
there. The doctor has one assistant to help him in managing the hospital. He spoke very highly
of the native dressers, and said that they frequently turn out well. To X., accustomed to see
similar hospitals crowded with Chinese, it was curious only to find one in the whole hospital,
and he was the cook.

After his visit to the hospital the traveller went to the post office to ask if his registered
letter had come, and was considerably depressed to find that, though the post had arrived,
there was no letter by it for him. There was nothing to be done but to accept the information
and return to the hotel and think it out. He was alone--servants and luggage had gone, and
some ten guilders of money only remained. Where could he find a local Schmidt. The landlord
suggested that perhaps the people at the Factory might change his cheque. X. was not certain,
but believed the Factory to be the name for the offices of the chief trading firm in Java.
Acting on this advice, he took a carriage and drove there. The haughty young gentleman who
presided behind the counter received him suspiciously, and at once disdainfully and very firmly
refused to have anything to do with the cheque, which he turned over and over in his fingers
as though it might bite him, and then returned to its owner.

Bowed out and baffled, the traveller returned to his hotel. The situation was now growing serious,
for the train to Soempioeh went in half-an-hour, and, after paying his bill, there would be
no money for the fare, even could he start penniless. As a forlorn hope X. sallied forth in
the sun to pay one more visit to the post-office. This building was closed, and the hard-worked
officials had retired to their private apartments in the back premises. Bold to desperation,
the visitor skirted round the post-office and peered into the privacies beyond. Seeing an open
door he walked in, and found the chief official in his shirt sleeves partaking of his midday
meal. With profuse apologies for his intrusion, X. stated his anxiety about his remittance,
and rather feebly asked the officer if he were "quite sure" the letter had not come. "Quite
sure," grumbled the official in excellent English, "but to satisfy you I'll let you come and
look yourself." X. almost begged him not to take what surely must be superfluous trouble, but,
luckily, refrained, and accompanying the officer into the post-office, walked towards a pile
of papers stacked in pigeon-holes. "There," exclaimed his guide, "see--see for yourself"; and
he did, for on the top lay a blue envelope duly registered and addressed to himself.

Thus the hotel bill was paid, and he caught the train to Soempioeh. There he was met by Abu
and messengers from the Wodena, who accompanied him to that officer's house.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE QUEST SUCCESSFUL--THE WODENA's HOUSE.

The Wodena's house was a comparatively large building made with alang-lalang walls,[4] and
the floor on a level with the ground. The entire front of the house was open, though the overhanging
eaves of the roof kept out the glare. In the foreground three tables with corresponding chairs
were ranged stiffly, as though in a hotel verandah. In one corner was a little cupboard kind
of compartment, which X. found was his bedroom.

There was no attempt to cover the floor of bare earth with mats, as would have been the case
in even poor Malay houses. At the back of the one large sitting room stood an imposing long
table. The outlook of the house was on to some untidy waste land covered with long grass--rather
an unusual sign of slovenliness in a country of such universal neatness. Close by a new house
was in course of construction for Government use. This building had the somewhat strange combination
of alang-lalang walls and a tiled roof. The host who welcomed X. to his house was, as has been
said, the Wodena, or local head native magistrate. A Malay in such a position would most certainly
have had a courteous manner and have probably been an agreeable companion. This official, though
he evidently intended to be cordial, was awkward and seemingly stupid. He also spoke bad Malay,
and seemed an ill-educated man for such a position. He wore a terrible old sun-helmet on his
head, and presented a grotesque appearance.

    [Footnote 4: Plaited grass.]

After having tea his host took X. for a walk round to show him the place, and all the people
crouched on the ground as they passed. The followers in uniform walked after them, occasionally
shouting at those who did not promptly go to earth, while hurrying their movements with insinuating
prods from the poles of office. The few Chinese who were met, bowed low like ladies to a royalty,
which was a somewhat startling experience to X., so recently from Singapore, where Chinamen
jostle Europeans from the side walks and puff bad tobacco in their faces as they pass. Apropos
of this it might be mentioned here that a high Dutch official in Java stated that he considered
that the way the Chinese in Singapore were allowed to treat the Europeans was "nothing less
than a disgrace to civilization." In the Singapore local press at the time of writing there
is now appearing a series of indignant letters from a Chinaman in Selangor who signs himself
as "Speaking Pig Tail." This scribe complains to "Mr. Editor" that he has not the same rights
as a European. I wonder what "Speaking Pig Tail" would say to the above-mentioned Dutch official.

However these particular Chinese in Soempioeh bowed many inches low to the Wodena, while X.
with bland self-consciousness appropriated a certain length to himself as the only white man
in the place.

This walk at Soempioeh was full of interest, and the Wodena kindly replied to the best of his
ability to all the questions asked. The whole country round was one vast expanse of padi, valleys
and hills alike so far as the eye could reach, and it seemed to X. that no population could
be sufficiently dense to consume such an apparently unlimited supply, but the Wodena assured
him that none was ever exported. The town presented a busy scene of great activity, as there
was evidently a country fair in full swing, and rows of people lined the roadside selling quaint
cakes and fruit, and here and there a stall was gay and sweet-smelling with little heaps of
gathered rose leaves and yellow blooms of fragrant chimpaka. The Wodena and his visitor called
on the chief Chinese of the town, of which race he informed him there were two hundred all
told. These people scarcely resembled the Chinamen as known to X., since they had all been
born and bred in the neighbourhood, and not one of them had experience of life beyond the island
of Java. The head Chinaman produced various curios--so considered--for inspection, these being
sent for from the pawn-shops close by. The Wodena volunteered the information that large quantities
of opium were consumed in the district. This meant, as there were no Chinese, the habitual
use of this drug amongst the people. After this walk the little procession wended its way back
to the Wodena's house. Dinner that night proved a weird meal, as Usoof, who cooked, had gone
to the neighbouring village of Tambak, where he found his mother dwelt, and Abu, who had never
cooked anything more complicated than rice, tried his 'prentice hand. The next day was Sunday,
and the weekly fair was at its height till twelve noon. Hundreds, perhaps thousands, of people
were packed tightly together, line after line, under little sheds, selling sarongs and cloths
of every conceivable colour, with hats, mats, and native ornaments of all descriptions. It
was an animated scene, and one not easily forgotten, and this was the first time, if the Wodena
was to be believed, that any white man had seen it. Be that as it may, or perhaps as it may
not, X. allowed himself the satisfaction of believing that it was the first time that any Englishman
had seen it.

After the fair the traveller returned home, and there received a visit from Usoof and his mother.
He had found her, and the object of his journey to Java was accomplished. It appears that he
had met her while walking along a path by the river, which his awakened memory recalled would
lead him to his home. And she, noting his unusual dress and stranger-like appearance, stopped
to ask whether he had any news of her son who many years ago had gone away to Singapore, and
to whom she had so frequently written, receiving no reply. She feared he was dead, but as the
kind stranger came from foreign parts it was possible that amongst the colony of Javanese in
Singapore he might have heard of her long-lost son.

Such was the meeting, and a dramatic and successful climax to what had seemed a somewhat forlorn
quest. Had I the pen of a Swettenham or a Clifford, those sympathetic spinners of delightful
tales of a race whose childish faith so lends itself to story, I might here find material for
pages of a charming romance. But in reality there was little romance about Usoof, rather a
sturdy honesty and affection, as he brought his poor mother in her humble attire and presented
her to his Tuan, who, at that moment, bored to death by his kind host, who would not cease
to entertain him by sitting by him in attentive silence, would have welcomed any diversion
as a boon.

But the poor lady, according to the custom of the country, could only prostrate herself outside
the house nor venture nearer than some dozen yards, probably regarding her new-found son, who
stood upright, as some knave who courted death.

This system of obeisance had been rather embarrassing to X., since all the retainers of his
host stooped low and crept about while his own attendants had maintained their usual attitudes
with occasional lapses from the perpendicular. For there had been intervals over night when,
realizing his conspicuous position, Abu had wandered about awkwardly doubled up, and offered
cigarettes and liquid refreshment from somewhere among the legs of the table, startling his
master by his sudden cat-like appearance in unexpected places, while there was that in his
eye which said, "Do not expect this sort of thing to continue when we get you home."

CHAPTER XIX.

A VILLAGE HOME IN JAVA.

To Usoof and his mother the great Wodena was kindness itself, and conversed with them in Javanese
with much affability. X. wishing to see a real country village, and obtain speech with its
people, away from the all-subduing eye of the local authority, promised to go that afternoon
and visit the good lady in her ancestral home, and a few hours later he took the train for
the next station, Tambak. No European had ever done such a thing before apparently, and there
was quite a fuss at the station to find a first or even a second-class ticket. And during the
search the railway officials displayed the most naive curiosity, and questioned the traveller
without restraint. Arrived at Tambak X. descended, and immediately the station-master hurried
forward and politely assured him that he had made a mistake, since Gombong, the large town,
was the next station but one. He obviously could not believe it possible that any European
should get out at Tambak on purpose, and regarded the polite insistence of X. that he knew
where he wanted to go as evidence of some sort of want of sanity, to be passed over as harmless.
Gesticulating and ejaculating, the worthy gentleman collected quite a little crowd of gazers
as the white man, followed by Usoof, sauntered out of the station. Once out of sight, the station-master
would have been intensely gratified to see X., who did not really in the least know where he
was going, turn round and ask his follower the way. So they branched off to the left and wended
their route along the banks of a noisy river, beneath the shade of huge trees which formed
an avenue by the side of the water. On their right lay the endless padi fields of early green
and ripening gold, all equally shimmering in the sun. This combination of ripe padi, side by
side with newly sown, forms a striking feature of Javanese agriculture. While gazing upon this
warm picture, and congratulating himself that someone had had the forethought to plant this
pleasant row of trees, the voice of Usoof from the rear announced that they must now turn to
the right. To turn to the right naturally meant to go across that sunlit plain. The hand of
X. involuntarily went up to his stiff stand-up collar, and though he could not see the face
of his attendant, he was aware through his back that he smiled. So climbing a rustic stile
they branched off to the right and walked across the padi, where the lurid light was zigzagging
above the corn. Presently the red roofs of a village were in sight, and once more the voice
of Usoof spoke to introduce his birthplace. This was interesting, as was the additional information
that the little river they had now to cross was the boundary of his ancestral land. The house
they had come all this way to see was deep in the shadow of countless fruit trees, over which
towered palms of considerable age. The green turf so scrupulously neat, and the little group
of buildings set round the central house, all combined to make a picturesque scene.

In the front of these cottages, on the green turf, was the reception house--a square building,
surrounded by benches with a table in the middle.

Here the stranger was escorted by a crowd of Javanese, cousins and sisters and brothers and
aunts, without number--for it seemed less of a family than a tribe which had come together
to do him honour. Then the guest was seated in the place of state, and fruit of many kinds
in large brass dishes was set before him. It was truly a pleasant spot, and there was additional
satisfaction in the thought that with so little to guide them they had been able to light upon
it without lengthy search. Then ensued a conversation, during which the visitor learnt and
imparted many things. Amongst the former he heard that once before, when the railway was being
made, a white man had been seen in the neighbourhood, but the present occasion was the first,
when the village had beheld one close. And this stranger told them of the Malays and his life
amongst them, and how their houses and customs resembled theirs, while Usoof, alone venturing
to remain upright, acted as interpreter as a swarm of young brown relations clasped his hands
and ruthlessly robbed him of his watch and chain, his brass buttons, and all the loose coins
in his pockets. Then X., who has a material mind, asked to see the title deeds of their lands,
which were produced and inspected, and they were instructed how to proceed, so that when the
time came the absent Usoof, as the eldest son, should obtain his fair share of the inheritance.
Then, as the shadows were lengthening, and the zigzags on the padi had given way to a soft
and mellow light fanned by an evening breeze, X. gave the signal to depart and announced that
farewells must be made. Hurrying over his own, he wandered towards the river so that he might
not witness the anguish of the mother bereaved anew of her long lost son, but he could not
escape hearing the sounds of sobs which arose behind him. And the little procession of two--the
European with his limp collar, and the Javanese bereft of all his finery--started once more
across the plain. But the procession grew and grew, as one by one the fond relations hurried
after it for one more glimpse or one more word for the departing brother. Then the traveller
began to feel as near a brute as ever in his life before, and suggested to Usoof that he should
bid him good-bye and return for good to the bosom of his weeping family. But this he declined
to do, and at the rustic stile the actual parting came. Arrived at the train, the good station-master
was still on the look-out and walking around as though something unusual had happened, but,
tired and hot, X. parried his questionings with some abruptness. But the interviewer was as
persistent as if he were on the staff of a London evening paper, and after producing an inverted
wheelbarrow, which he offered X. as a seat, went to his house for a whisky and soda--called
by the natives "Dutch water." After that walk in the sun, his whole physical and nervous system
disorganized by the deglutition of strange fruits and condiments, and by witnessing heartrending
family farewells, an unexpected whisky and soda, when such a restorative had seemed as unobtainable
as the very moon which was beginning to appear, was welcome indeed. The station-master was
at once the master of the situation, and the hitherto taciturn Englishman, his thirst assuaged
and his limbs at rest, became as communicative as a star of the profession, and answered all
questions as fully and docilely as a willing witness in the hands of his own counsel.

CHAPTER XX.

BACK TO THE JUNGLE.

Arrived at the house of the Wodena, the traveller had to submit to more pumping, nor would
his host rest until he knew, or was persuaded he knew, each word which X. had written in his
letter of thanks to the Assistant Resident at Tjilatjap. That night it was very hot, and it
was borne in upon the sleepless traveller that he had exhausted the resources of the place.
Therefore at an early hour next morning his miscellaneous fairings were packed, the cost of
his entertainment liberally repaid, and accepted without demur, and the visitors, after earnestly
commending the picturesque little village at Tambak to special official protection, departed
for the station. X. had intended to now perform the usual round and visit the temples at Djaokjakerta,
Solo and Semarang, but when almost in the act of asking for his ticket, a spirit of revolt
infected him, and he rebelled at the thought that he must go here and there just because all
others did, when his inclinations really called him elsewhere, for his inclinations were bidding
him go back to the cottage in the hills, where the tea and coffee grew. And so without hesitation
he took his ticket and sent a telegram to announce his intended return. Bandong was to be the
first halting-place, which meant travel in that crawling train from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., and stopping
at twenty-eight stations on the way. There was no first-class compartment and the seats of
the second-class were hard and narrow, and the cramped space after the first few hours became
almost unbearable. Things looked brighter, the guard flattered the hopes of passengers by asking
who would buy tickets for lunch at some halting-place further on, so that he could telegraph
for the meal to be prepared. Hope is eternal, and experience of Java hotels had not yet robbed
the traveller of the fond pleasure of anticipation. The Swindon of the line was reached, and
there, sure enough, was a table spread with food. After the first bite of the first dish X.
realized sadly that he had been done, since it would have been impossible to make any impression
on that meat with aught less forcible than an axe. Thus, with reluctance, his portion, albeit
paid for in advance, was relinquished, to be again paid for probably and again to flatter and
deceive some other passing and hungry stranger. The remainder of the journey proved agreeable,
thanks to the companionship of a young officer who, invalided home from the Lomboh war, was
en route to Buitenzorg, where he lived. This poor warrior had undergone a time of much hardship,
and related how he and his men had slept shelterless on the wet ground and for nights had nothing
but rice to eat. And this only half a day's journey from the principal port in Java, and with
as much money collected for aid to the soldiers as would have, if necessary, paid for the whole
cost of the war. This companion told many interesting anecdotes of the war, and related some
almost incredible tales of the treachery and ingratitude of the natives.

The Englishman also availed himself of this opportunity for hearing something of social etiquette
in time of peace, and the unwritten rules which guided those attending entertainments where
Dutch and natives met. As for instance, when the Sultan of Djoedja gives a ball, each official
must stand upon a step, high or low, in proportion to his rank, while the Resident is met and
escorted to the same lofty altitude as the Sultan, on the top.

To the Governor-General, however, the Sultan must do obeisance.

This might be a convenient place to mention the great regard officially paid to caste. Reverence
for rank amongst the people is fostered and aided by their rulers, and if a man of position
is ever suspected or accused so that inquiry becomes necessary, it must take place with closed
doors and in private.

That night the party lay at Bandong (fresh from reading the "Red Cockade" its language seems
the most descriptive). The train reached that considerable town at dusk. Here the traveller
had the good fortune to again meet his friend the President of the Landraad, and was introduced
by him to the Club. Being introduced to the Club meant being separately introduced to every
member then in it, with that punctilious formality which X. had observed in Batavia. The hotel
at Bandong was the best which the traveller had yet visited, and, contrary to expectation,
dinner was warm and comforting. The others of the party, however, Usoof and Abu, were not so
fortunate, for they had no means of getting anything to eat. It was not permitted them to go
out after dark without lights, and they could not get lights. Added to this it was raining
hard. The hotel apparently could not supply natives with food at such an hour, and it was necessary
for them to go and look for it. This sad story greeted X. when his own dinner was done. But
the kind President of the Landraad cut the knot of this dilemma and soon provided a caterer,
protector, and guide for the hungry pair.

As usual next morning, the time fixed for the train to leave was very early, and other trains
were starting too, and of these Abu selected the one on the point of departure for Maos in
which to stow all the portable luggage--no small amount--and this was only rescued as the train
was actually on the move. This, of course, necessitated hurried action, making those who hurried
hot. Then the scene at the ticket window was scarcely to be described. For a country where,
in public, such a gulf is fixed between Europeans and natives, it is a strange thing to find
the one aperture for the purchase of tickets, besieged by a serging clamouring throng of both
races, and no one had any idea of waiting his turn. X. attempted to force his way to the little
window, but as he stopped to observe the rules of the game, as played in civilized countries
of the West, he was each time passed over, when the tickets were almost in his grasp. At length,
disgusted at having to take part in such a scene, he retired. Then Usoof, with much insinuation
of elbows and words in Javanese (words such as his mother may not have approved), managed to
obtain tickets just in time to catch the train. This train duly landed them at the familiar
little station, where, as before, the ponies waited them to carry them up that hill of wonderful
views. At the station the traveller parted with his companion, the invalid officer, after accepting
a kindly invitation to lunch with him at Buitenzorg on his way through to Batavia.

No need to repeat myself in describing those few extra days spent at the cottage in the hills.
And they also resembled the last ones in that they went too quickly.

The hearty welcome received was, the visitor liked to think, rendered even warmer by the fact
that he was able to assure his busy host that the young tea plants had most certainly grown
a little in his absence.

The day soon came when X. was nearing the limits of his leave and must start for Batavia. The
always early train reached Buitenzorg in the morning, and there, where on his first visit he
had felt so lonely, the traveller was met by his soldier friend and driven by him to the home
of his fiancée. That reception, and its pleasant sequel of a home-like lunch, is one of the
most agreeable of the recollections which X. now preserves of the town. Though he felt inclined
to take the welcome all to himself, yet in his heart he knew that it was in great manner due
to the fact that he was even remotely connected with the safe return of one whom the household
considered as a son.

After lunch the host, bravely clad in uniform, took his guest to see the barracks. These buildings
seemed as clean and comfortable as could be expected in a tropical climate. The extreme youth
of some of the men was so noticeable that the visitor could not but observe it, and he learnt
that this was accounted for by the fact that they could enlist at the age of sixteen. Another
item of information was that one-third of the army in Java was composed of people of other
nationalities. In the native corps there is never any difficulty in obtaining recruits.

After inspecting the barracks a visit was made to the gaol. This over they drove to the Club
for the much-needed refreshment of "Dutch water" with something in it. The Club was a fine
building, but there was no time left to enjoy its luxurious lounges, and in a very short time
X. was bidding farewell to his good friend and steaming once more towards Batavia.

Arrived in the capital, the traveller thought it best to widen his experience by driving to
an hotel other than the one of electric light. This was also a huge building at the end of
a regular street of rooms, all looking out on to the main verandah. As this look-out provided
the only light, the majority of the occupants kept open both doors and windows, and a walk
along the verandah was like some panorama of dressing in all its stages.

The chief points about this hotel were the usual ones--indifferent food, absence of privacy,
and horrible bathing arrangements. In Eastern countries it is usual to find a bath-room attached
to the bedroom. In Java hotels people--ladies as well as men--burdened with sponges and towels,
and some with soap, must cross a public court-yard and wait their turn outside the bath-room
door. In this particular hotel the ordeal was especially trying, since the bathrooms were outside
the office, and in the centre of a regular street where people drove past arriving and departing
or calling on friends, and must perforce gaze upon that little forlorn group of scantily-clad
humans on cleanliness intent. However, this hotel remains to X. one of blessed memory, since
it was while there he was, through the knowledge of the language, able to render some slight
service to two charming American ladies who were courageously going round the world alone.
On the following day these ladies were passengers on board the s.s. Godavery en route for Hong
Kong, Shanghai, Japan, Havaü, and all the places in the world apparently, excepting, alas!
that little one of Pura Pura.

That last evening there happened to be a performance of an English circus, and X. went there
and laughed at the jokes of an excellent clown--a cheery being whose like he had not seen for
many a long year past. Fancy a clown in the jungle!

The next day he reluctantly bade farewell to the country where such a pleasant three weeks
had been spent, and embarking on board the s.s. Godavery--his impedimenta increased by three
ponies--the traveller steamed again for Singapore. The day after his arrival there he started
for home, and some thirty-six hours later was once more seated in his verandah, listening all
alone to the chanting songs of his Malay neighbours in the plain below. The moon was bright,
and Pura Pura kept high revelry.

Those readers who have had the patience to follow my friend through his short holiday may leave
him there--sighing perhaps with contented discontent--an excuse for grumbling--while all around
is beautiful, and body and mind can revel in long chairs and books galore. There is a world
perhaps, he thinks, where all are up and doing, but--like his dreams--it is very far away.
Has he been to Java--he asks himself--has he ever been anywhere beyond the edge of this green
turfed hill--to which are now ascending sounds of happiness from poor villagers who live among
the padi fields, away there across the river, dimly seen now when the moon is high? And has
he helped to make them happy?--did they always sit singing there before he or others came,
or did they have to watch with Krises ready, for fear of stealthy foes--foes who crept to stab
beneath the raised bamboo floors. Perhaps he, too, has aided with his mite--perhaps--who knows?
And as this thought occurs, the discontent will fade, while content alone remains.

Long years has this exile lived in Pura Pura, and then when he left it for a space--to redeem
a promise--he asked me to relate all that he did and saw while thus away. From Jungle to Java
have I therefore followed him as a faithful chronicler and my commission is ended. But it should
not be so, since there are tales of the jungle and tales of Pura Pura all worth the telling
if what I think be true. For there, where life moves slowly, the incidents, which make it dwell,
dwell so long that those who watch may note and read. And though that which they read, being
of nature and mankind, is necessarily an old, old story, yet is the framework new, and thus
with an interest all its own, able to impart a lesson to those who sit at home and speak with
vague pity of peoples far away. Perhaps our traveller--to whom such a name must have seemed
irony indeed--will one day ask my assistance to relate certain chapters of that life, brief
glimpses of which have been afforded the reader in this little sketch.

THE ROXBURGHE ROMANCES.

=THE BEST VALUE OF ANY BOOKS AT THE SAME PRICE.=

=Published on the First and Fifteenth of each month.=

A Series of bright, well-written Stories, etc., daintily produced, with designed Art Cover.

=SIXPENCE EACH:= OR IN "Strakeria" Cloth, One Shilling.

Each contains from 20,000 to 30,000 words, and is well and clearly printed on good paper.

  =TITLES AND AUTHORS.=

  A WIDOW WELL LEFT             R. MANIFOLD CRAIG.

                             Ready November the First, 1896.

  ONE WEAK MOMENT                E. WHITE.

  WITHOUT BLOODSHED              HAROLD E. GORST.

  THAT CHARMING WIDOW            CLARENCE HAMLYN.

  A ROMANCE OF THE FAIR          L. & H. CRANMER-BYNG.

  MADEMOISELLE SOPHIE            ARTHUR J. IRELAND.

  AN AFTERNOON RIDE              ANNE PAGE.

  THE DIAMOND SHOE BUCKLES       MARY ALBERT.

  BLOTTED OUT                    E. PULLEN BURRY.
    (Or a Puritan's Curse)

  THE PRIEST AND THE ACTRESS     ETHEL WALKER.
    (Some Idylls of St. Giles)

  MARIE VASELLIS                 JOSEPHINE STOCKWELL.

  THE DEALER IN DEATH            ARTHUR MORRIS.

  TOLD AT THE CLUB               CHARLES F. RIDEAL.

And others in preparation, by

MRS. CECIL MARRYAT NORRIS; MR. MASSEY SHAW; MR. J. L. OWEN; MR. C. GORDON WINTER; THE HON.
STUART ERSKINE; MR. WALTER HERRIES POLLOCK; MR. R. BRINSLEY; MR. GRAHAM EVERETT; MR. RICHARD
DAVEY; MRS. GRAHAM and other attractive writers.

May be obtained through all Booksellers, Newsagents, and Railway Book Stalls; or from the Publishers:

THE ROXBURGHE PRESS, LIMITED, =Fifteen, Victoria Street.= =Westminster.=

[Bookplate: Ex Libris Roxburghe Press]

Inconsistencies in the hyphenation of words preserved. (bathroom, bath-room; courtyard, court-yard;
foreground, fore-ground; lamplight, lamp-light; stationmaster, station-master)

Pg. 96, "Ojoedja" possibly refers to the town "Djoedja" (short for Djoedjakarta) which is mentioned
elsewhere in the text. However, the original text has been preserved.

Pg. 99, "civi service" changed to "civil service". (irritable member of the civil service)

Pg. 124, "attemped" changed to "attempted". (X. attempted to force his way)

Pg. 125, duplicated word "a" removed. (sequel of a home-like lunch)

