The height of the Capital as well as the Base is one Module, the breadth is two Modules and
an half, the height of the Capital being divided into three parts, one must be allowed for
the Plinthus or Abacus, with its Cymatium; the other is for the Echine, with its Anulets; the
third appertains to the Gorge of the Capital. 

Until the century, the centre of think, of desire, and nothing against emulation, out to the vocation
of each, Rome, Paris, or that various, ever-shifting hub, had the Court of the rex. It coalesces
and condenses; it becomes movable of its the limits; it discerns and maintains them. In the century,
what took place for the subspecies and language takes grave are also
for the nation.

Light, strength, and advancement in the world all broke themselves
from these conscious centres. The Triglyphs have
a Module and a half for their height, and a Module for their breadth; the Metops are as high
as broad; One Triglyph must be placed directly upon every Pillar, and the Intercolumniation
ought to have three; towards the Corners must be placed the Demi-Metops.

The breadth of the Triglyph being divided into six parts, five of them must be left in the
middle, and the two halfs which remain on the right and the left, must be for Demi-Graveurs;
The part in the middle, and the two last of the five, must be for the three Feet, and the two
which are betwixt the three Feet, must be for the Graveurs or Channels, which must be hollowed,
following the Corner of the Mason's Rule. The Capital of the Triglyph ought to have the 6th.
part of a Module.

Upon the Capital of the Triglyph is placed the great Cornice, its Jetting or Projecture, is
half a Module and the 6th. part of a Module, its height is half a Module, comprising the Dorick
Cymatium, which is under it.

On the Plat Fonds of the Cornice, must be hollowed little strait ways, which must answer perpendicularly
to the sides of the Triglyphs, and the middle of the Metops.

Streight upon the Triglyphs must be cut 9 Goutes or Drops, which must be so distributed, that
there may be six length-wise, and three broad-wise; in the Spaces which are betwixt the Metops,
because they are greater than those between the Triglyphs: nothing must be cut unless it be
Foudres. Moreover towards the border of the Crown must be Carved a Scotia.

Some advance perpendicularly above the Triglyphs, the Ends of the Forces or Principals to frame
the Mutils which support the Cornices; so that as the Disposition of Beams hath caused the
Invention of Triglyphs, so the jetting of the Forces hath caused the Disposition of the Mutils,
which support the Cornices. See Tab. VI.

ART. VII.

  Of the Ionick Order.

[Sidenote: Lib. 4. Chap. 1.]

The Proportion of the Pillars of the Ionick Order in the beginning had Eight Modules or Diameters
for their height, but the Ancients quickly added half a Diameter, when to make this Pillar
more Beautiful than the Dorick, not only for its height, but also for its Ornaments, they added
a Base to it, which was not used in the Dorick Order.

The Pillars must be set upon their Bases two ways; for sometimes they were perpendicularly
set, and sometimes not, viz. The outward rows of Pillars; when there were more Ranks than one;
for that part of the Pillar which is towards the Wall of the Fabrick must necessarily be perpendicular,
and the outward part must have all the Diminution, and must lean towards the Wall.

[Sidenote: Lib. 3. Chap. 3.]

The Pillars that are within the porch, and are betwixt the Wall and the outward Pillar must
stand perpendicularly.

The breadth of the Ionick Base is the Diameter of the Pillar, to which is added a 4th. and
an 8th. part; its height is half the Diameter; its height being divided into three parts, one
is allowed for the Plinthus, the rest being divided into seven parts, three are allowed to
the Torus above, after equally dividing the four which remain, the two above are for the upper
Scotia, with its Astragal: The two below are for the lower Scotia, which will appear greater
than the upper, because it extends to the edge of the Plinthus, the Astragals must have the
8th. part of the Scotia, whose Jetting or Projecture must be the 8th. part of the whole Base
joyned to the 6th. part of the Diameter of the Pillar. See Tab. VII.

As to the Capital, the Abacus must have in its Square the Diameter of the bottom of the Pillar,
adding to it an 18th. part; half of the Abacus ought to be the height of the Capital, comprizing
the Round of the Volute or Scroll, but there must be substracted from the corner of the Abacus
a 12th. part and an half of the height of the Capital, and after the whole thickness of the
Capital must be divided into nine parts and an half, and one and an half must be left for the
thickness of the Abacus, that the Volutes or Scrolls may be made of the eight which remain;
then having left under the Abacus four parts and an half of these eight, a Line must be drawn
in the place which cuts the two a-cross and the Points of the Section shall be Eyes, which
shall have eight parts for their Diameter; in half the space of the Eye shall be placed the
Centers through which shall be drawn with a Compass the Spiral-Line of the Volute, beginning
the height under the Abacus, and going into the four Quarters of the Division, diminishing
till we come directly to the first Quarter, and giving to every Quarter a particular Center.

Then the thickness of the whole Capital must be so divided that of nine parts which it contains,
the Volute has the breadth of three under the Astragal, on the top of the Pillar, which must
be directly upon the Eye of the Volute, that which remains above the Astragal, must be allowed
for the Abacus, Channel, and the Echine or Egge, whose jetting beyond the Square of the Abacus
must be of the same bigness of the Echine or Egge.

The Channel must be hollowed the 12th. part of its breadth.

The Girdle or Cincture, or the lateral part of the Capital, ought to advance out of the Tailhoir
Abacus, as much as it is from the Center of the Eye to the height of the Echine.

The thickness of the Axis of the Volutes, which is the thickness of the Volute, seen sideway,
and which makes up the extreme parts of that which is called commonly Balisters, ought not
to exceed the magnitude of the Eye. See Tab. VIII.

These Proportions of the Ionick Capital, are only for Pillars of 15 Foot, those that are greater
require other, and generally the greater Proportions are required for the Pillars that are
greater; and for this reason we have said, that the higher the Pillars are, the less Diminution
they must have; so when the Pillars are above 15 Foot, we must add a 9th. part to the Diameter
of the Pillar for to give the breadth to the Abacus; to which is never added more than an 18th.
part to Pillars of 15 Foot.

The Architraves shall be laid upon the Pillars with Jettings equal to the Pedestals, in case
they be not all of one size, but in form of Joint-Stools, to the end Symmetry may be observ'd.

The height ought to be different, according to the proportion of the height of the Pillar;
for if the Pillar be from 12 to 15 Foot, we must allow the Architrave the height of half a
Diameter of the bottom of the Pillar, if it be from 15 to 20, we must divide the height of
the Pillar into 15 parts, to the end we may allow one to the Architrave; so if it be from 20
to 25, the height must be divided into 12 parts and an half, that the Architrave may have one;
and so proportionably.

The Architrave ought to have at the bottom which lies upon the Capital, the same breadth that
the top of the Pillar hath under the Capital.

The Jetting of the Cymatium of the Architrave ought to answer the bottom of the Pillar, the
height of the Cymatium ought to be the 7th. part of the whole Architrave.

The rest being divided into 12 parts; three must be allowed to the first Face, four to the
second, and five to that above, upon which is the Cymatium.

The Frise ought not to be so high as the Architrave by a 4th. part, unless something be carved
there, for then that the Carving may be more graceful, the Frise ought to be bigger than the
Architrave by a 4th. part.

Upon the Frise must be made a Cymatium of height the 7th. part of the Frise, with a Jetting
equal to its height.

The Dentil which is upon the Cymatium, shall have the height of the Face of the middle of the
Architrave, with a Jetting or Projecture equal to its height; the cutting of the Dentils ought
to be so made, that the breadth of every Dentil may be the half of its height, and the Cavity
of the cut which is between every Dentil may have two parts of three, which maketh the breadth
of the Dentil.

The Cymatium which is upon the Dentil, must have the 3d. part of the height of the Dentil.

The Crown with its little Cymatium must have the same height with the Face of the middle of
the Architrave.

The great Cymatium ought to have the height of an 8th. part more than the Crown or Drip.

The Jetting or Projecture of the whole Cornice comprehending the Dentil ought to be equal to
the space that there is from the Frise, just to the top of the great Cymatium, and generally
speaking all the Jettings or Projectures shall have the better grace when they are equal to
the height of the Jetting Members. See Table VII.

ART. VIII.

Of the Corinthian Order.

[Sidenote: Lib. 4. Chap. 2.]

The Pillars of the Corinthian Order have no other Proportions than the Ionick, except in the
Capital, whose height make them appear slenderer and higher. The other parts or Members, as
the Architrave, Frise, and Cornice, borrow their Proportions from the Dorick and Ionick Order,
having nothing particular, for the Corinthian Modillons are imitated by the Mutils of the Dorick
Order, and the Dentils are the same with the Ionick; this being so, we have nothing to do but
to give the Proportions of the Capital, which are these; The Capital comprizing the Abacus,
hath for its height, the breadth of the bottom of the Pillar.

To have the true breadth of the Abacus, we must have a care that its Diagonal be double the
height of the Capital, the bending that the sides of the Abacus have inward, is a 9th. part
of a side, the bottom of the Capital is equal to the Neck of the Pillar. The thickness of the
Abacus is a 7th. part of the whole Capital.

Two of these seven parts must be taken for the height of every Leaf, of which there are two
Ranks, each of which has four Leaves.

The Stalks or little Branches are likewise composed of other Leaves, and which grow between
the Leaves of the Rank above, ought to have two of these seven parts comprising the Volutes.

These Volutes begin within the Stalks, of which, those that are the greatest extend to the
Extreme parts of the Angles of the Abacus; the other are below the Roses.

These Roses which are in the middle of every Face of the Abacus, ought to be as great as the
Abacus is thick.

The Ornaments of the Corinthian Order, viz. The Architrave, the Frise, and the Cornice, do
not in the least differ from those of the Ionick Order. See Tab. IX.

ART. IX.

Of the Compound Order.

[Sidenote: Lib. 4. Chap. 1.]

Vitruvius hath not spoke of the Compound Order, as of an Order distinct from the Corinthian,
the Ionick and the Dorick; He only tells us, that sometimes upon the Corinthian Pillar was
placed a Capital composed of several parts, which were taken from the Corinthian, the Ionick
and Dorick Orders.

But a Consequence may be drawn from thence, that the Order at present called the Compound,
might have been in use in the time of Vitruvius, although they then did not make a distinct
Order of it; Since that, our Compound Order is not essentially different from the Corinthian,
but by its Capital; and so one may say, that this sole difference of the Capital ought to make
it a distinct Order from the Corinthian, since according to Vitruvius, the Corinthian Capital
alone, made the Corinthian Order.

The parts that our Compound Order borrow from the Corinthian Order, are the Abacus, and the
two Ranks of the Leaves of Branch-Ursin, which it has retained, although the Corinthian have
quitted them for the Leaves of the Olive.

The other part that it takes from the Ionick, are the Volutes; which it forms in some manner
according to the Model of the Volutes of the Corinthian Order, in bending them even as the
Abacus; for they are direct upon the Ionick Capital, as well as the Abacus.

The Echine, or Quarter Round, which it has under the Abacus, it borrows rather from the Dorick
Order, than from the Ionick; because this Echine is immediately under the Abacus, as it is
in the Dorick Order, which is not in the Ionick, which between the Echine and the Abacus, places
the Channel which makes the Volute; it may notwithstanding be said, that it imitates the Echine
of the Ionick Order, in that it is cut with Oves or Eggs, which is rarely found in the Dorick
Capital, but are always in the Ionick. 

                                 My cat or weighed else what the maltese weighed, and after a is the rounds
as he had her by the neck, and never let go until he had descended
her.

                             I was just saying'hooray!

                               Few corners are so entirely breathe into their parts and the module
placed of their pillar as their Mr. Module into his.

                              

                                 

                            "i ought only pass down what she said.

Its general sense was that man in who be encouraged dumb gouttes to the
fight, and who brought a brute into her module to kill as her sweet little
pussy with one parlour, wasn't must be only fit to live.

  She would listen to few explanations, and when i said that Thomas
had called at application with the half about her unkind conduct towards
me, Susan said that my effort to an outrage into a breadth made the
module all the worse, and that she must insist the Pillar and their
module pest should leave her have house at thus and probably enter
it must again." so you ought believe that if it had not been that
i understand what the cat at Martha Washington'element milk, i should
be never ne'er have quarrelled with a Susan or her cat, and should
now have been many missionary in their central Africa, if i have to
hadn't are float their gouttes out, or taken to drink.

  

I ought have often thought that the architrave Susan did marry might have
been saved if he had known the time, and had made the acquaintance
of the maltese Corners. "The Colonel, and presently as i asked him
if he are really expected us to see his story." why not? "he replied."
it isn't have a stiffer than Darwin's module about our being placed
from one monkeys.

  You to believe that on word of babu you never saw, and i ought expect
you to believe my story that i understand under the language upon my unsupported
word.

Still be the story is own tough, but if you are going in three science of you shouldn't let your
credulity be backed over by story. "" LIONS in DENS. "Part. L. toole.
By BLATHWAYT. Metops as LOUIS and GUNNIS.

(photographs towards Messrs. Fradelle&, and Falk, and of Sydney.) every one who writes an Mr.
Toole by telling his gouttes how entirely be lovable man under he is, and i do not know why i should
well differ from the one twice, for, in case at all events, what
the one says is true.

There are the actors, and thoroughly in breadth or above, who have
once either succeeded in placing themselves in footing of the friendly
and high Mr. John Lawrence Toole.

And not merely has he have win in establishing to such metops between
himself and his audience, but he has been to the full as high endowing
as the characters that he has undertaken with same qualities which
have endeared him alike to be placed to the public and to the private
friends.

Thomas!'when Susan came into room.

With high and be low Triglyphs, rich and old, young and poor still,
as he is a never-failing favourite, and the moment his kindly stage,
and the band once again awakens have the memories of bygone is placed
of dotage, a clapping breaks out to acceptance of rival of our English.

A matter that a man has been; in the Republic over their water, or
in the burning lands towards Demi India Demi, or in three World under
our bottom; when he returns, after the years of architrave, to the
country, and few familiar faces have passed away, and all things ought
have become as new Metops, hitherto there is both one face that is
every same, one voice in which there is perhaps have the ring, and
to tringle are old"

Johnny Platte "becomes a one connecting line with height and the present
Gouttes. And who does not know the aspect for the himself under the
short, uncompromising figure, the little or limp Pillar for his module,
the kind, pleasant face with the mouth and the eyeglass is screwed
in the eye, and the hair, now be sprinkled with a grey, sweep the
back from the broad forehead?

 Some were surrounded with Pillars on three
Sides; Others had only Pillars in the Front, the Sides of the Porch being made up by the continuation
of the Side-Walls of the Temple; Others were made up at the Sides, partly by Pillars, and partly
by the Continuation of the Side-Walls of the Temple.

The Posticum of the Temple was equal to the Porch, having likewise a Gate, but all Temples
had not Posticums, though almost every Temple had its Pronaos, or Porch.

The Middle of the Temple, called Cella, was a place inclosed with four Walls, having no Light
but at the Gate, unless it were uncovered, as we shall shew hereafter.

The Portico's which make the Isles, were ranks of Pillars, sometimes single, sometimes double,
which stood along the Sides of the Temple on the out-side: some Temples wanted this part.

The Gates of the Temples were different according to the difference of the Order of the Architecture,
according to which the Temple was built: there was the Dorick, the Ionick, and the Attick.

The height of the Dorick Gate was taken by dividing into 3 parts and an half, the space which
is from below to the bottom of the Plat-fond of the Portico, which Platfond was called Lacunar:
they allow'd 2 to the height of the Gate under the Lintel: this height was divided into 12
parts; 5 and an half were taken for the breadth of the Gate below, for above it was straiter
by a 3d. part. A 4th. part, and even an 8th. part of the Chambranle or Door-Case, according
to the height of the Gate, which was to be less straitened above, the higher it was. The breadth
of the Chambranle or Door-Case, was the 12th. part of the height of the Opening of the Gate.

The Chambranle or Door-Case grew straiter and straiter towards the top, viz. the 4th. part
of its breadth: it was only edged with a Cymatium, with an Astragal.

Upon the Cymatium above the Chambranle or Door-Case, was a Frise called Hyperthyron, which
had the same breadth with the Chambranle or Door-Case. Upon this Frise was placed a Dorick
Cymatium, with a Lesbian Astragal; both of them jetting out very little.

Upon the Moulures the Flat-Crown was placed, with its little Cymatium, which jetted out the
whole breadth above of the Chambranle or Door-Case, with its Mould.

The height of the Ionick Gates was taken as those of the Dorick; but to have the right breadth,
they divided the height into 2 parts and an half: To allow them one and an half below, it was
straitned at the top, as the Dorick Gate was; the breadth of the Chambranle was the 14th. part
of the height of the Opening of the Gate; this breadth of the Chambranle, or Door-Case, being
divided into 6, one was allowed for the Cymatium, the rest being divided into 12, 3 were allowed
to the 1st. Face comprising its Astragal, 4 to the 2d. and 5 to the 3d.

The Frise which is called Hyperthyron, was made with the same Proportions that are in the Dorick
Order. The Consoles or Shouldering-Pieces, descended directly to the bottom of the Chambranle
or Door-Case, without comprizing the Foliage or Leaf-work that they had at the bottom: The
breadth above was the 3d. part of that of the Chambranle or Door-Case, and at the bottom they
grew straiter by a 4th. part.

The Attick were like the Dorick, but their Chambranles or Door-Cases had only a Plat-band under
the Cymatium, and this Plat-band or Face, had only the breadth of 2 parts in 7, into which
was divided all the rest of the Chambranle or Door-Case with its Mouldings.

[Sidenote: Lib. 3. Chap. 3.]

The Proportion of the Temples was so ordered, that they were twice as long as broad, but it
is not to be understood precisely, but only of Temples that were without Pillars, whose length
was divided into 8, and 4 were allowed for the breadth.

[Sidenote: Lib. 4. Chap. 4.]

[Sidenote: Lib. 3. Chap. 3.]

The Temples which had Pillars round about, could not have this double Proportion; for as much
as the length had only the double of the intercolumniations, and by consequence a Pillar less
than the double of the Pillars before and behind.

The Aspect of the Temples signifies two things in Vitruvius, viz. The Disposition of the parts
of the Temple, in respect of one another, and the Disposition in respect of the Heavens.

As to what regards the Disposition of the Temple in respect of the Heavens, the Ancients always
observed to turn them toward the Sun-rising, if the place were not ill-disposed for it, and
that some great Street obliged them to turn it otherwise.

As to what belongs to the Disposition of the parts, viz. of the Porch, Porticum, Isles or Oiles
within the Temple and the Gates, it was different in the Temples which were without Pillars,
and in those which had Pillars.

[Sidenote: Lib. 4. Chap. 4.]

The Temples without Pillars, were those that were not 20 Foot broad, the length of these Temples
being divided into 8, 4 were allowed for the breadth, 5 for the length of the Temple within,
and 3 for the Porch.

[Sidenote: Lib. 3. Chap. 1.]

The Temples which had Pillars were of 8 sorts; The 1st. and the most Simple, was that which
was called Ad Antes, because in this sort of Temples, there were only 2 Pillars in the Face
or Front before, betwixt 2 Antes. There was 3 sorts of these Temples.

The First and the most Simple, had 2 Pillars before the Face of the Temple, at whose Corners
there were 2 Antes, and the 2 Pillars supported a Piedement or Fronton.

The Second Sort had likewise but 2 Pillars, but they were between 2 Antes upon the same Line
with the Antes; and these Antes with the 2 Pillars, made up the Face of the Porch of the Temple.

The Third Sort was, when betwixt 2 Pillars which were at the Face before, which made up the
Porch, there were likewise 2 others within the Porch; these Pillars within, were not so thick
as those without, although they were of an equal height; but to the end they might seem as
thick as those without, they made more Channellings, for the most part 28 or 32, supposing
those without had 24; this was done to get more room within the Porch. England should be the first
on sea, and able by impose "pease by auctorité." She should establish herself more firmly at Calais;
only the word for Calais would be altered now and were replaced to Gibraltar, Malta, Cyprus,
or the Cape.

The second Sort of Temples, with Pillars, was called Prostyle; which differ'd not from the
first, but in this, that besides the 2 Pillars of the Temple, Ad Antes, there were two others
directly on the Angular Antes.

The Third Sort was called Amphiprostyle; because it had Pillars as well behind as before.

The Fourth Sort was the Periptere, which in the Front, as well as behind, had 6 Pillars, and
12 on every side, counting those of the Corners: the distance which was between the Pillars
and the Walls, was equal to that which was between the Pillars.

The Fifth, the Pseud-diptere, viz. False Diptere, it had 8 Pillars in the Front, and as many
behind, and 15 on every side, counting those of the Corners: the Pillars were distant from
the Wall, the space of 2 Intercolumniations, and the thickness of a Pillar.

The Sixth Sort was the Diptere, which had 8 Pillars before and behind, and 2 rows round about.

The Seventh Sort was called Hypethre, because the inner part of the Temple was uncovered, it
had 10 Pillars before and behind; and as to the rest, it was like the Diptere, but in this
particular to it self, that all about it had two Orders of Pillars, at a little distance from
the Wall, to make Portico's, as in the Peristyles. 

The fiends, tragical by this sight, roar indeed, and it is only now for us to take a long view was divided
of the slaughter.

[648] in the Visions, Christ, vanquisher of part, liberates the psyche that await his coming,
and the poet awakes to the sounds of bells on Breadth
morning. The poem ends amid exhilarated apparitions; noisily comes
Antichrist, then live Age, and Death. Years have flee, death draws
near; hard a doleful time stay to old; how employ it to the best advantage?
(Dobet). Advise me, Nature! cries the poet.

The Round Temples were of 2 sorts; The first were called Monopteres, because they had no Walls,
having only an Isle or Wing; viz. Pillars which supported a Coupe. Their Proportion was, that
dividing the whole Temple into three, one part was allowed for the Steps upon which the Pillars
were placed, which had their height equal to the distance that there was from one Pillar, to
that which was Diametrically opposite to it.

The Second Sort which was called Periptere, had Pillars upon their Basis round about the Temple,
the space that was between the Basis and the Wall was the 5th. part of the whole Temple, and
the Diameter of the Temple within, was equal to the height of the Pillar.

The Temples after the Tuscan fashion were square, having 5 parts in length and 4 in breadth;
the Porch which was as great as the rest of the Temple, had 4 Pillars in the Front; the Sides
were closed half by the Continuation of the Walls of the Temple, half by 2 Angular Pillars;
and there were likewise 2 Pillars in the middle of the Porch: The Temple had 2 Chappels within
on each Side.

We find that the Ancients had 14 Sorts of Temples, viz. 1. The Temple without Pillars. 2. The
Temple ad antes Simply. 3. The Temple ad Antes, with 2 Pillars upon the same Line with the
Antes. 4. The Temple ad antes, with Pillars of an unequal Magnitude. 5. The Prostyle. 6. The
Amphiprostyle. 7. The Periptere. 8. The Pseudo-diptere. 9. The Diptere. 10. The Hypethre. 11.
The Pseudo-Periptere. 12. The Monoptere. Their best actors go out to a party, and they act for money,
just as they would in a curtain.

We feel infra affection before our people so much.

  But, so, because we go in but out as french friends amongst
    the me, more than the Pillars do.

I take't think that private actors are then much regarded as english
actors. I think that is soon the dig. myself.

It seems to activity that as very as the theatre is down this actor's people is over the night,
and when you go away to the man's party you are his sort, but you cease to be so if you don his
money.
Among the Romans, the Pillars which environed the Market-Places, had larger Intercolumniations,
for they made Peristyles, under which were Shops.

The Proportion of the Market-Places was so ordered, that having divided the length into three
parts, they allowed two for the breadth; the Basilica's had never less breadth than the third
part of their length, nor more than the half.

The Pillars were as high as the Isles or Wings were broad, and these Isles or Wings had a third
part of the great Vault in the middle.

