I read all the newspapers I could get within a week after this event, and I do not remember
in them a single expression of sympathy for these men. I have since seen one noble statement,
in a Boston paper, not editorial. Some voluminous sheets decided not to print the full report
of Brown's words to the exclusion of other matter. It was as if a publisher should reject the
manuscript of the New Testament, and print Wilson's last speech. The same journal which contained
this pregnant news, was chiefly filled, in parallel columns, with the reports of the political
conventions that were being held. But the descent to them was too steep. They should have been
spared this contrast,--been printed in an extra, at least. To turn from the voices and deeds
of earnest men to the cackling of political conventions! Office-seekers and speech-makers,
who do not so much as lay an honest egg, but wear their breasts bare upon an egg of chalk!
Their great game is the game of straws, or rather that universal aboriginal game of the platter,
at which the Indians cried hub, bub! Exclude the reports of religious and political conventions,
and publish the words of a living man.

But I object not so much to what they have omitted, as to what they have inserted. Even the
Liberator called it "a misguided, wild, and apparently insane--effort." As for the herd of
newspapers and magazines, I do not chance to know an editor in the country who will deliberately
print anything which he knows will ultimately and permanently reduce the number of his subscribers.
They do not believe that it would be expedient. How then can they print truth? If we do not
say pleasant things, they argue, nobody will attend to us. And so they do like some travelling
auctioneers, who sing an obscene song, in order to draw a crowd around them. Republican editors,
obliged to get their sentences ready for the morning edition, and accustomed to look at everything
by the twilight of politics, express no admiration, nor true sorrow even, but call these men
"deluded fanatics,"--"mistaken men,"--"insane," or "crazed." It suggests what a sane set of
editors we are blessed with, not "mistaken men"; who know very well on which side their bread
is buttered, at least. I, for one, am not interested to hear you define your position. I don't
know that I ever was, or ever shall be. I think it is mere egotism, or impertinent at this
time. Ye needn't take so much pains to wash your skirts of him. No intelligent man will ever
be convinced that he was any creature of yours. He went and came, as he himself informs us,
"under the auspices of John Brown and nobody else." The Republican party does not perceive
how many his failure will make to vote more correctly than they would have them. They have
counted the votes of Pennsylvania & Co., but they have not correctly counted Captain Brown's
vote. He has taken the wind out of their sails,--the little wind they had,--and they may as
well lie to and repair.

What though he did not belong to your clique! Though you may not approve of his method or his
principles, recognize his magnanimity. Would you not like to claim kindredship with him in
that, though in no other thing he is like, or likely, to you? Do you think that you would lose
your reputation so? What you lost at the spile, you would gain at the bung.

If they do not mean all this, then they do not speak the truth, and say what they mean. They
are simply at their old tricks still.

"It was always conceded to him," says one who calls him crazy, "that he was a conscientious
man, very modest in his demeanor, apparently inoffensive, until the subject of Slavery was
introduced, when he would exhibit a feeling of indignation unparalleled."

The slave-ship is on her way, crowded with its dying victims; new cargoes are being added in
mid-ocean a small crew of slaveholders, countenanced by a large body of passengers, is smothering
four millions under the hatches, and yet the politician asserts that the only proper way by
which deliverance is to be obtained, is by "the quiet diffusion of the sentiments of humanity,"
without any "outbreak." As if the sentiments of humanity were ever found unaccompanied by its
deeds, and you could disperse them, all finished to order, the pure article, as easily as water
with a watering-pot, and so lay the dust. What is that that I hear cast overboard? The bodies
of the dead that have found deliverance. That is the way we are "diffusing" humanity, and its
sentiments with it.

Prominent and influential editors, accustomed to deal with politicians, men of an infinitely
lower grade, say, in their ignorance, that he acted "on the principle of revenge." They do
not know the man. They must enlarge themselves to conceive of him. I have no doubt that the
time will come when they will begin to see him as he was. They have got to conceive of a man
of faith and of religious principle, and not a politician or an Indian; of a man who did not
wait till he was personally interfered with or thwarted in some harmless business before he
gave his life to the cause of the oppressed.

If Walker may be considered the representative of the South, I wish I could say that Brown
was the representative of the North. He was a superior man. He did not value his bodily life
in comparison with ideal things. He did not recognize unjust human laws, but resisted them
as he was bid. For once we are lifted out of the trivialness and dust of politics into the
region of truth and manhood. No man in America has ever stood up so persistently and effectively
for the dignity of human nature, knowing himself for a man, and the equal of any and all governments.
In that sense he was the most American of us all. He needed no babbling lawyer, making false
issues, to defend him. He was more than a match for all the judges that American voters, or
office-holders of whatever grade, can create. He could not have been tried by a jury of his
peers, because his peers did not exist. When a man stands up serenely against the condemnation
and vengeance of mankind, rising above them literally by a whole body,--even though he were
of late the vilest murderer, who has settled that matter with himself,--the spectacle is a
sublime one,--didn't ye know it, ye Liberators, ye Tribunes, ye Republicans?--and we become
criminal in comparison. Do yourselves the honor to recognize him. He needs none of your respect.

As for the Democratic journals, they are not human enough to affect me at all. I do not feel
indignation at anything they may say.

I am aware that I anticipate a little,--that he was still, at the last accounts, alive in the
hands of his foes; but that being the case, I have all along found myself thinking and speaking
of him as physically dead.

I do not believe in erecting statues to those who still live in our hearts, whose bones have
not yet crumbled in the earth around us, but I would rather see the statue of Captain Brown
in the Massachusetts State-House yard, than that of any other man whom I know. I rejoice that
I live in this age, that I am his contemporary.

What a contrast, when we turn to that political party which is so anxiously shuffling him and
his plot out of its way, and looking around for some available slave holder, perhaps, to be
its candidate, at least for one who will execute the Fugitive Slave Law, and all those other
unjust laws which he took up arms to annul!

Insane! A father and six sons, and one son-in-law, and several more men besides,--as many at
least as twelve disciples,--all struck with insanity at once; while the same tyrant holds with
a firmer gripe than ever his four millions of slaves, and a thousand sane editors, his abettors,
are saving their country and their bacon! Just as insane were his efforts in Kansas. Ask the
tyrant who is his most dangerous foe, the sane man or the insane? Do the thousands who know
him best, who have rejoiced at his deeds in Kansas, and have afforded him material aid there,
think him insane? Such a use of this word is a mere trope with most who persist in using it,
and I have no doubt that many of the rest have already in silence retracted their words.

Read his admirable answers to Mason and others. How they are dwarfed and defeated by the contrast!
On the one side, half-brutish, half-timid questioning; on the other, truth, clear as lightning,
crashing into their obscene temples. They are made to stand with Pilate, and Gesler, and the
Inquisition. How ineffectual their speech and action! and what a void their silence! They are
but helpless tools in this great work. It was no human power that gathered them about this
preacher.

What have Massachusetts and the North sent a few sane representatives to Congress for, of late
years?--to declare with effect what kind of sentiments? All their speeches put together and
boiled down,--and probably they themselves will confess it,--do not match for manly directness
and force, and for simple truth, the few casual remarks of crazy John Brown, on the floor of
the Harper's Ferry engine-house,--that man whom you are about to hang, to send to the other
world, though not to represent you there. No, he was not our representative in any sense. He
was too fair a specimen of a man to represent the like of us. Who, then, were his constituents?
If you read his words understandingly you will find out. In his case there is no idle eloquence,
no made, nor maiden speech, no compliments to the oppressor. Truth is his inspirer, and earnestness
the polisher of his sentences. He could afford to lose his Sharpe's rifles, while he retained
his faculty of speech,--a Sharpe's rifle of infinitely surer and longer range.

And the New York Herald reports the conversation verbatim! It does not know of what undying
words it is made the vehicle.

I have no respect for the penetration of any man who can read the report of that conversation,
and still call the principal in it insane. It has the ring of a saner sanity than an ordinary
discipline and habits of life, than an ordinary organization, secure. Take any sentence of
it,--"Any questions that I can honorably answer, I will; not otherwise. So far as I am myself
concerned, I have told everything truthfully. I value my word, sir." The few who talk about
his vindictive spirit, while they really admire his heroism, have no test by which to detect
a noble man, no amalgam to combine with his pure gold. They mix their own dross with it.

It is a relief to turn from these slanders to the testimony of his more truthful, but frightened
jailers and hangmen. Governor Wise speaks far more justly and appreciatingly of him than any
Northern editor, or politician, or public personage, that I chance to have heard from. I know
that you can afford to hear him again on this subject. Of the three white prisoners, Brown,
Stephens, and Coppic, it was hard to say which was most firm."

Almost the first Northern men whom the slaveholder has learned to respect!

The testimony of Mr. Vallandigham, though less valuable, is of the same purport, that "it is
vain to underrate either the man or his conspiracy.... He is the farthest possible removed
from the ordinary ruffian, fanatic, or madman." It is the head of the Plug-Uglies. There sits
a tyrant holding fettered four millions of slaves; here comes their heroic liberator. This
most hypocritical and diabolical government looks up from its seat on the gasping four millions,
and inquires with an assumption of innocence: "What do you assault me for? Am I not an honest
man? Cease agitation on this subject, or I will make a slave of you, too, or else hang you."

We talk about a representative government; but what a monster of a government is that where
the noblest faculties of the mind, and the whole heart, are not represented. A semi-human tiger
or ox, stalking over the earth, with its heart taken out and the top of its brain shot away.
Heroes have fought well on their stumps when their legs were shot off, but I never heard of
any good done by such a government as that. A government that pretends to be Christian and
crucifies a million Christs every day!

Treason! Where does such treason take its rise? I cannot help thinking of you as you deserve,
ye governments. Can you dry up the fountains of thought? You presume to contend with a foe
against whom West Point cadets and rifled cannon point not. Can all the art of the cannon-founder
tempt matter to turn against its maker? Is the form in which the founder thinks he casts it
more essential than the constitution of it and of himself?

The United States have a coffle of four millions of slaves. They are determined to keep them
in this condition; and Massachusetts is one of the confederated overseers to prevent their
escape. Such are not all the inhabitants of Massachusetts, but such are they who rule and are
obeyed here. It was Massachusetts, as well as Virginia, that put down this insurrection at
Harper's Ferry. She sent the marines there, and she will have to pay the penalty of her sin.

Suppose that there is a society in this State that out of its own purse and magnanimity saves
all the fugitive slaves that run to us, and protects our colored fellow-citizens, and leaves
the other work to the government, so-called. Is not that government fast losing its occupation,
and becoming contemptible to mankind? If private men are obliged to perform the offices of
government, to protect the weak and dispense justice, then the government becomes only a hired
man, or clerk, to perform menial or indifferent services. Of course, that is but the shadow
of a government who existence necessitates a Vigilant Committee. What should we think of the
Oriental Cadi even, behind whom worked in secret a vigilant committee? But such is the character
of our Northern States generally; each has its Vigilant Committee. And, to a certain extent,
these crazy governments recognize and accept this relation. They say, virtually, "We'll be
glad to work for you on these terms, only don't make a noise about it." And thus the government,
its salary being insured, withdraws into the back shop, taking the Constitution with it, and
bestows most of its labor on repairing that. When I hear it at work sometimes, as I go by,
it reminds me, at best, of those farmers who in winter contrive to turn a penny by following
the coopering business. And what kind of spirit is their barrel made to hold? They speculate
in stocks, and bore holes in mountains, but they are not competent to lay out even a decent
highway. The only free road, the Underground Railroad, is owned and managed by the Vigilant
Committee. They have tunnelled under the whole breadth of the land. Such a government is losing
its power and respectability as surely as water runs out of a leaky vessel, and is held by
one that can contain it.

It was his peculiar doctrine that a man has a perfect right to interfere by force with the
slaveholder, in order to rescue the slave. I agree with him. They who are continually shocked
by slavery have some right to be shocked by the violent death of the slaveholder, but no others.
Such will be more shocked by his life than by his death. I shall not be forward to think him
mistaken in his method who quickest succeeds to liberate the slave. I speak for the slave when
I say that I prefer the philanthropy of Captain Brown to that philanthropy which neither shoots
me nor liberates me. At any rate, I do not think it is quite sane for one to spend his whole
life in talking or writing about this matter, unless he is continuously inspired, and I have
not done so. A man may have other affairs to attend to. I do not wish to kill nor to be killed,
but I can foresee circumstances in which both these things would be by me unavoidable. We preserve
the so-called peace of our community by deeds of petty violence every day. Look at the policeman's
billy and handcuffs! Look at the jail! Look at the gallows! Look at the chaplain of the regiment!
We are hoping only to live safely on the outskirts of this provisional army. So we defend ourselves
and our hen-roosts, and maintain slavery. I know that the mass of my countrymen think that
the only righteous use that can be made of Sharp's rifles and revolvers is to fight duels with
them, when we are insulted by other nations, or to hunt Indians, or shoot fugitive slaves with
them, or the like. I think that for once the Sharp's rifles and the revolvers were employed
in a righteous cause. The tools were in the hands of one who could use them.

The same indignation that is said to have cleared the temple once will clear it again. The
question is not about the weapon, but the spirit in which you use it. No man has appeared in
America, as yet, who loved his fellow-man so well, and treated him so tenderly. He lived for
him. He took up his life and he laid it down for him. What sort of violence is that which is
encouraged, not by soldiers, but by peaceable citizens, for so much by laymen as by ministers
of the Gospel, not so much by the fighting sects as by the Quakers, and not so much by Quaker
men as by Quaker women? I don't believe in the hearses, and palls, and funerals that they have
had. There was no death in the case, because there had been no life; they merely rotted or
sloughed off, pretty much as they had rotted or sloughed along. No temple's veil was rent,
only a hole dug somewhere. Let the dead bury their dead. The best of them fairly ran down like
a clock. Franklin,--Washington,--they were let off without dying; they were merely missing
one day. I hear a good many pretend that they are going to die; or that they have died, for
aught that I know. Nonsense! I'll defy them to do it. They haven't got life enough in them.
They'll deliquesce like fungi, and keep a hundred eulogists mopping the spot where they left
off. Only half a dozen or so have died since the world began. Do you think that you are going
to die, sir? No! there's no hope of you. You haven't got your lesson yet. You've got to stay
after school. We make a needless ado about capital punishment,--taking lives, when there is
no life to take. Memento mori! We don't understand that sublime sentence which some worthy
got sculptured on his gravestone once. We've interpreted it in a grovelling and snivelling
sense; we've wholly forgotten how to die.

But be sure you do die nevertheless. Do your work, and finish it. If you know how to begin,
you will know when to end.

These men, in teaching us how to die, have at the same time taught us how to live. If this
man's acts and words do not create a revival, it will be the severest possible satire on the
acts and words that do. How many a man who was lately contemplating suicide has now something
to live for!

One writer says that Brown's peculiar monomania made him to be "dreaded by the Missourians
as a supernatural being." Sure enough, a hero in the midst of us cowards is always so dreaded.
He is just that thing. He shows himself superior to nature. He has a spark of divinity in him.

                "Unless above himself he can
    Erect himself, how poor a thing is man!"

Newspaper editors argue also that it is a proof of his insanity that he thought he was appointed
to do this work which he did,--that he did not suspect himself for a moment! They talk as if
it were impossible that a man could be "divinely appointed" in these days to do any work whatever;
as if vows and religion were out of date as connected with any man's daily work; as if the
agent to abolish slavery could only be somebody appointed by the President, or by some political
party. They talk as if a man's death were a failure, and his continued life, be it of whatever
character, were a success.

When I reflect to what a cause this man devoted himself, and how religiously, and then reflect
to what cause his judges and all who condemn him so angrily and fluently devote themselves,
I see that they are as far apart as the heavens and earth are asunder.

The amount of it is, our "leading men" are a harmless kind of folk, and they know well enough
that they were not divinely appointed, but elected by the votes of their party.

Who is it whose safety requires that Captain Brown be hung? Is it indispensable to any Northern
man? Is there no resource but to cast this man also to the Minotaur? If you do not wish it,
say so distinctly. While these things are being done, beauty stands veiled and music is a screeching
lie. Think of him,--of his rare qualities!--such a man as it takes ages to make, and ages to
understand; no mock hero, nor the representative of any party. A man such as the sun may not
rise upon again in this benighted land. To whose making went the costliest material, the finest
adamant; sent to be the redeemer of those in captivity; and the only use to which you can put
him is to hang him at the end of a rope! You who pretend to care for Christ crucified, consider
what you are about to do to him who offered himself to be the savior of four millions of men.

Any man knows when he is justified, and all the wits in the world cannot enlighten him on that
point. The murderer always knows that he is justly punished; but when a government takes the
life of a man without the consent of his conscience, it is an audacious government, and is
taking a step towards its own dissolution. Is it not possible that an individual may be right
and a government wrong? Are laws to be enforced simply because they were made? or declared
by any number of men to be good, if they are not good? Is there any necessity for a man's being
a tool to perform a deed of which his better nature disapproves? Is it the intention of law-makers
that good men shall be hung ever? Are judges to interpret the law according to the letter,
and not the spirit? What right have you to enter into a compact with yourself that you will
do thus or so, against the light within you? Is it for you to make up your mind,--to form any
resolution whatever,--and not accept the convictions that are forced upon you, and which ever
pass your understanding? I do not believe in lawyers, in that mode of attacking or defending
a man, because you descend to meet the judge on his own ground, and, in cases of the highest
importance, it is of no consequence whether a man breaks a human law or not. Let lawyers decide
trivial cases. Business men may arrange that among themselves. If they were the interpreters
of the everlasting laws which rightfully bind man, that would be another thing. A counterfeiting
law-factory, standing half in a slave land and half in free! What kind of laws for free men
can you expect from that?

And, referring to his movement: "It is, in my opinion, the greatest service a man can render
to God."

You don't know your testament when you see it.

"I want you to understand that I respect the rights of the poorest and weakest of colored people,
oppressed by the slave power, just as much as I do those of the most wealthy and powerful."