1
   II. THE PROSPECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
  III. CARIBOO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
   IV. THE OVERLANDERS . . . . . . . . . . . . .   53
    V. CROSSING THE MOUNTAINS  . . . . . . . . .   68
   VI. QUESNEL AND KAMLOOPS  . . . . . . . . . .   80
  VII. LIFE AT THE MINES . . . . . . . . . . . .   88
 VIII. THE CARIBOO ROAD  . . . . . . . . . . . .   99
       BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE  . . . . . . . . . .  110
       INDEX . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  112

{vii}

ILLUSTRATIONS

THE FIRST LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY OF
  VANCOUVER ISLAND . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Frontispiece
  After a photograph.

THE CARIBOO COUNTRY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   Facing page 1
  Map by Bartholomew.

SIR JAMES DOUGLAS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    "     "  10
  From a portrait by Savannah.

INDIANS NEAR NEW WESTMINSTER, B.C. . . . . . . . . . . .    "     "  12
  From a photograph by Maynard.

IN THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    "     "  28
  From a photograph.

A GROUP OF THOMPSON RIVER INDIANS  . . . . . . . . . . .    "     "  36
  From a photograph by Maynard.

SIR MATTHEW BAILLIE BEGBIE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    "     "  38
  From a portrait by Savannah.

A RED RIVER CART . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    "     "  58
  From a photograph.

WASHING GOLD ON THE SASKATCHEWAN . . . . . . . . . . . .    "     "  62
  From a photograph.

{viii}

IN THE YELLOWHEAD PASS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    "     "  64
  From a photograph.

UPPER M'LEOD RIVER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    "     "  66
  From a photograph.

THE CARIBOO ROAD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    "     " 100
  From a photograph.

INDIAN GRAVES AT LYTTON, B.C.  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    "     " 102
  From a photograph.

{1}

CHAPTER I

THE 'ARGONAUTS'

Early in 1849 the sleepy quiet of Victoria, Vancouver Island, was disturbed by the arrival
of straggling groups of ragged nondescript wanderers, who were neither trappers nor settlers.
They carried blanket packs on their backs and leather bags belted securely round the waist
close to their pistols.  They did not wear moccasins after the fashion of trappers, but heavy,
knee-high, hobnailed boots.  In place of guns over their shoulders, they had picks and hammers
and such stout sticks as mountaineers use in climbing.  They did not forgather with the Indians.
They shunned the Indians and had little to say to any one.  They volunteered little information
as to whence they had come or whither they were going.  They sought out Roderick Finlayson,
chief trader for the Hudson's Bay Company.  They wanted provisions from the company--yes--rice,
flour, ham, salt, pepper, sugar, and tobacco; and at the smithy they {2} demanded shovels,
picks, iron ladles, and wire screens.  It was only when they came to pay that Finlayson felt
sure of what he had already guessed.  They unstrapped those little leather bags round under
their cartridge belts and produced in tiny gold nuggets the price of what they had bought.

Finlayson did not know exactly what to do.  The fur-trader hated the miner.  The miner, wherever
he went, sounded the knell of fur-trading; and the trapper did not like to have his game preserve
overrun by fellows who scared off all animals from traps, set fire going to clear away underbrush,
and owned responsibility to no authority.  No doubt these men were 'argonauts' drifted up from
the gold diggings of California; no doubt they were searching for new mines; but who had ever
heard of gold in Vancouver Island, or in New Caledonia, as the mainland was named?  If there
had been gold, would not the company have found it?  Finlayson probably thought the easiest
way to get rid of the unwelcome visitors was to let them go on into the dangers of the wilds
and then spread the news of the disappointment bound to be theirs.

He handled their nuggets doubtfully.  Who knew for a certainty that it was gold anyhow?  {3}
They bade him lay it on the smith's anvil and strike it with a hammer.  Finlayson, smiling
sceptically, did as he was told.  The nuggets flattened to a yellow leaf as fine and flexible
as silk.  Finlayson took the nuggets at eleven dollars an ounce and sent the gold down to San
Francisco, very doubtful what the real value would prove.  It proved sixteen dollars to the ounce.

For seven or eight years afterwards rumours kept floating in to the company's forts of finds
of gold.  Many of the company's servants drifted away to California in the wake of the 'Forty-Niners,'
and the company found it hard to keep its trappers from deserting all up and down the Pacific
Coast.  The quest for gold had become a sort of yellow-fever madness.  Men flung certainty
to the winds and trekked recklessly to California, to Oregon, to the hinterland of the country
round Colville and Okanagan.  Yet nothing occurred to cause any excitement in Victoria.  There
was a short-lived flurry over the discovery in Queen Charlotte Islands of a nugget valued at
six hundred dollars and a vein of gold-bearing quartz.  But the nugget was an isolated freak;
the quartz could not be worked at a profit; and the movement suddenly died out.  {4} There
were, however, signs of what was to follow.  The chief trader at the little fur-post of Yale
reported that when he rinsed sand round in his camp frying-pan, fine flakes and scales of yellow
could be seen at the bottom.[1] But gold in such minute particles would not satisfy the men
who were hunting nuggets. It required treatment by quicksilver.  Though Maclean, the chief
factor at Kamloops, kept all the specks and flakes brought to his post as samples from 1852
to 1856, he had less than would fill a half-pint bottle.  If a half-pint is counted as a half-pound
and the gold at the company's price of eleven dollars an ounce, it will be seen why four years
of such discoveries did not set Victoria on fire.

It has been so with every discovery of gold in the history of the world.  The silent, shaggy,
ragged first scouts of the gold stampede wander houseless for years from hill to hill, from
gully to gully, up rivers, up stream beds, up dry watercourses, seeking the source of those
yellow specks seen far down the mountains near the sea. Precipice, rapids, avalanche, winter
storm, take their toll of dead. Corpses are washed down in the spring floods; or the {5} thaw
reveals a prospector's shack smashed by a snowslide under which lie two dead 'pardners.'  Then,
by and by, when everybody has forgotten about it, a shaggy man comes out of the wilds with
a leather bag; the bag goes to the mint; and the world goes mad.

Victoria went to sleep again.  When men drifted in to trade dust and nuggets for picks and
flour, the fur-traders smiled, and rightly surmised that the California diggings were playing out.

Though Vancouver Island was nominally a crown colony, it was still, with New Caledonia, practically
a fief of the Hudson's Bay Company. James Douglas was governor.  He was assisted in the administration
by a council of three, nominated by himself--John Tod, James Cooper, and Roderick Finlayson.
In 1856 a colonial legislature was elected and met at Victoria in August for the first time.[2]
But, {6} in fact, the company owned the colony, and its will was supreme in the government.
John Work was the company's chief factor at Victoria and Finlayson was chief trader.

Because California and Oregon had gone American, some small British warships lay at Esquimalt
harbour.  The little fort had expanded beyond the stockade.  The governor's house was to the
east of the stockade.  A new church had been built, and the Rev. Edward Cridge, afterwards
known as Bishop Cridge, was the rector.  Two schools had been built.  Inside the fort were
perhaps forty-five employees.  Inside and outside lived some eight hundred people.  But grass
grew in the roads.  There was no noise but the church bell or the fort bell, or the flapping
of a sail while a ship came to anchor.  Three hundred acres about the fort were worked by the
company as a farm, which gave employment to about two dozen workmen, and on which were perhaps
a hundred cattle and a score of brood mares.  The company also had a saw-mill.  Buildings of
huge, squared timbers flanked three sides of the inner stockades--the dining-hall, the cook-house,
the bunk-house, the store, the trader's house.  There were two bastions, and from each cannon
pointed.  Close to the {7} wicket at the main entrance stood the postoffice.  Only a fringe
of settlement went beyond the company's farm.  The fort was sound asleep, secure in an eternal
certainty that the domain which it guarded would never be overrun by American settlers as California
and Oregon had been.  The little Admiralty cruisers which lay at Esquimalt were guarantee that
New Caledonia should never be stampeded into a republic by an inrush of aliens.  Then, as now,
it was Victoria's boast that it was more English than England.

So passed Christmas of '57 with plum-pudding and a roasted ox and toasts to the crown and the
company, though we cannot be quite sure that the company was not put before the crown in the
souls of the fur-traders.

Then, in March 1858, just when Victoria felt most secure as the capital of a perpetual fur
realm, something happened.  A few Yankee prospectors had gone down on the Hudson's Bay steamer
Otter to San Francisco in February with gold dust and nuggets from New Caledonia to exchange
for money at the mint.  The Hudson's Bay men had thought nothing of this. Other treasure-seekers
had come to New Caledonia before and had gone back to San Francisco disappointed.  But, in
March, these {8} men returned to Victoria.  And with them came a mad rabble of gold-crazy prospectors.
A city of tents sprang up overnight round Victoria.  The smithy was besieged for picks, for
shovels, for iron ladles.  Men stood in long lines for their turn at the trading-store.  By
canoe, by dugout, by pack-horse, and on foot, they planned to ascend the Fraser, and they mobbed
the company for passage to Langley by the first steamer out from Victoria.  Goods were paid
for in cash.  Before Finlayson could believe his own eyes, he had two million dollars in his
safe, some of it for purchases, some of it on deposit for safe keeping. Though the company
gave no guarantee to the depositors and simply sealed each man's leather pouch as it was placed
in the safe, no complaint was ever made against it of dishonesty or unfair treatment.

Without waiting instructions from England and with poignant memory of Oregon, Governor Douglas
at once clapped on a licence of twenty-one shillings a month for mining privileges under the
British crown.  Thus he obtained a rough registration of the men going to the up-country; but
thousands passed Victoria altogether and went in by pack-train from Okanagan or rafted across
from Puget Sound.  {9} The month of March had not ended when the first band of gold hunters
arrived and settled down a mile and a half below Yale.  Another boat-load of eight hundred
and fifty came in April.  In four months sixty-seven vessels, carrying from a hundred to a
thousand men each, had come up from San Francisco to Victoria.  Crews deserted their ships,
clerks deserted the company, trappers turned miners and took to the gold-bars.  Before Victoria
awoke to what it was all about, twenty thousand people were camped under tents outside the
stockade, and the air was full of the wildest rumours of fabulous gold finds.

The snowfall had been heavy in '58.  In the spring the Fraser rolled to the sea a swollen flood.
Against the turbid current worked tipsy rafts towed by wheezy steamers or leaky old sailing
craft, and rickety row-boats raced cockle-shell canoes for the gold-bars above.  Ashore, the
banks of the river were lined with foot passengers toiling under heavy packs, wagons to which
clung human forms on every foot of space, and long rows of pack-horses bogged in the flood
of the overflowing river.  By September ten thousand men were rocking and washing for gold
round Yale.

As in the late Kootenay and in the still later {10} Klondike stampede, American cities at the
coast benefited most.  Victoria was a ten-hour trip from the mainland.  Whatcom and Townsend,
on the American side, advertised the advantages of the Washington route to the Fraser river
gold-mines.  A mushroom boom in town lots had sprung up at these points before Victoria was
well awake.  By the time speculators reached Victoria the best lots in that place had already
been bought by the company's men; and some of the substantial fortunes of Victoria date from
this period.  Though the river was so high that the richest bars could not be worked till late
in August, five hundred thousand dollars in gold was taken from the bed of the Fraser during
the first six months of '58.  This amount, divided among the ten thousand men who were on the
bars around Yale, would not average as much as they could have earned as junior clerks with
the fur company, or as peanut pedlars in San Francisco; but not so does the mind of the miner
work.  Here was gold to be scooped up for nothing by the first comer; and more vessels ploughed
their way up the Fraser, though Governor Douglas sought to catch those who came by Puget Sound
and evaded licence by charging six dollars toll each for all {11} canoes on the Fraser and
twelve dollars for each vessel with decks.  Later these tolls were disallowed by the home authorities.
The prompt action of Douglas, however, had the effect of keeping the mining movement in hand.
Though the miners were of the same class as the 'argonauts' of California, they never broke
into the lawlessness that compelled vigilance committees in San Francisco.

Judge Howay gives the letter of a treasure-seeker who reached the Fraser in April, the substance
of which is as follows:

We're now located thirty miles above the junction of the Fraser and the Thompson on Fraser
River...  About a fourth of the canoes that attempt to come up are lost in the rapids which
extend from Fort Yale nearly to the Forks.  A few days ago six men were drowned by their canoe
upsetting.  There is more danger going down than coming up.  There can be no doubt about this
country being immensely rich in gold.  Almost every bar on the river from Yale up will pay
from three dollars to seven dollars a day to the man at the present stage of water.  When the
river gets low, which will be about August, the bars will pay very well.  One hundred and ninety-six
dollars was taken out by one man last winter in a few hours, but the water was then at its
lowest stage.  The gold on the bars is all very fine and hard to save in a rocker, but with
quicksilver properly {12} managed, good wages can be made almost anywhere on the river as long
as the bars are actually covered with water.  We have not yet been able to find a place where
we can work anything but rockers.  If we could get a sluice to work, we could make from twelve
dollars to sixteen dollars a day each.  We only commenced work yesterday and we are satisfied
that when we get fully under way we can make from five dollars to seven dollars a day each.
The prospect is better as we go up the river on the bars.  The gold is not any coarser, but
there is more of it.  There are also in that region diggings of coarser gold on small streams
that empty into the main river.  A few men have been there and proved the existence of rich
diggings by bringing specimens back with them.  The Indians all along the river have gold in
their possession that they say they dug themselves, but they will not tell where they get it,
nor allow small parties to go up after it.  I have seen pieces in their possession weighing
two pounds.  The Indians above are disposed to be troublesome and went into a camp twenty miles
above us and forcibly took provisions and arms from a party of four men and cut two severely
with their knives.  They came to our camp the same day and insisted that we should trade with
them or leave the country.  We design to remain here until we can get a hundred men together,
when we will move up above the falls and do just what we please without regard to the Indians.
We are at present the highest up of any white men on the river, and we must go higher to be
satisfied.  {13} I don't apprehend any danger from the Indians at present, but there will be
hell to pay after a while.  There is a pack-trail from Hope, but it cannot be travelled till
the snow is off the mountains.

The prices of provisions are as follows: flour thirty-five dollars per hundred-weight, pork
a dollar a pound, beans fifty cents a pound, and other things in proportion.  Every party that
starts from the Sound should have their own supplies to last them three or four months, and
they should bring the largest size chinook canoes, as small ones are very liable to swamp in
the rapids.  Each canoe should be provided with thirty fathoms of strong line for towing over
swift water, and every man well armed.  The Indians here can beat anything alive stealing.
They will soon be able to steal a man's food after he has eaten it.

Within two miles of Yale eighty Indians and thirty white men were working the gold-bars; and
log boarding-houses and saloons sprang up along the river-bank as if by magic.  Naturally,
the last comers of '58 were too late to get a place on the gold-bars, and they went back to
the coast in disgust, calling the gold stampede 'the Fraser River humbug.'  Nevertheless, men
were washing, sluicing, rocking, and digging gold as far as Lillooet.  Often the day's yield
ran as high as eight hundred dollars a man; and the higher up the treasure-seekers {14} pushed
their way, the coarser grew the gold flakes and grains. Would the golden lure lead finally
to the mother lode of all the yellow washings?  That is the hope that draws the prospector
from river to stream, from stream to dry gully bed, from dry gully to precipice edge, and often
over the edge to death or fortune.

Exactly fifty-six years from the first rush of '58 in the month of April, I sat on the banks
of the Fraser at Yale and punted across the rapids in a flat-bottomed boat and swirled in and
out among the eddies of the famous bars.  A Siwash family lived there by fishing with clumsy
wicker baskets.  Higher up could be seen some Chinamen, but whether they were fishing or washing
we could not tell.  Two transcontinental railroads skirted the canyon, one on each side, and
the tents of a thousand construction workers stood where once were the camps of the gold-seekers
banded together for protection.  When we came back across the river an old, old man met us
and sat talking to us on the bank.  He had come to the Fraser in that first rush of '58.  He
had been one of the leaders against the murderous bands of Indians.  Then, he had pushed on
up the river to Cariboo, travelling, as he told us, by {15} the Indian trails over 'Jacob's
ladders'--wicker and pole swings to serve as bridges across chasms--wherever the 'float' or
sign of mineral might lead him.  Both on the Fraser and in Cariboo he had found his share of
luck and ill luck; and he plainly regretted the passing of that golden age of danger and adventure.
'But,' he said, pointing his trembling old hands at the two railways, 'if we prospectors hadn't
blazed the trail of the canyon, you wouldn't have your railroads here to-day.  They only followed
the trail we first cut and then built.  We followed the "float" up and they followed us.'

What the trapper was to the fur trade, the prospector was to the mining era that ushered civilization
into the wilds with a blare of dance-halls and wine and wassail and greed.  Ragged, poor, roofless,
grubstaked by 'pardner' or outfitter on a basis of half profit, the prospector stands as the
eternal type of the trail-maker for finance.

[1] The same, of course, may be done to-day, with a like result, at many places along the Fraser
and even on the Saskatchewan.

[2] This was the first Legislative Assembly to meet west of Upper Canada in what is now the
Canadian Dominion.  It consisted of seven members, as follows: J. D. Pemberton, James Yates,
E. E. Langford, J. S. Helmcken, Thomas J. Skinner, John Muir, and J. F. Kennedy. Langford,
however, retired almost immediately after the election and J. W. M'Kay was elected in his stead.
The portraits of five of the members are preserved in the group which appears as the frontispiece
to this volume.  The photograph was probably taken at a later period; at any rate, two of the
members, Muir and Kennedy, are missing.

{16}

CHAPTER II

THE PROSPECTOR

By September, when mountain rivers are at their lowest, every bar on the Fraser from Yale to
the forks of the Thompson was occupied.  The Hudson's Bay steamer Otter made regular trips
up the Fraser to Fort Langley; and from the fort an American steamer called the Enterprise,
owned by Captain Tom Wright, breasted the waters as far as the swift current at Yale.  At Yale
was a city of tents and hungry men.  Walter Moberly tells how, when he ascended the Fraser
with Wright in the autumn of '58, the generous Yankee captain was mobbed by penniless and destitute
men for return passage to the coast.  Many a broken treasure-seeker owed his life to Tom Wright's
free passage. Fortunately, there was always good fishing on the Fraser; but salt was a dollar
twenty-five a pound, butter a dollar twenty-five a pound, and flour rarer than nuggets.  So
hard up were some of the {17} miners for pans to wash their gold, that one desperate fellow
went to a log shack called a grocery store, and after paying a dollar for the privilege of
using a grindstone, bought an empty butter vat at the pound price of butter--twelve dollars
for an empty butter tub!  Half a dollar was the smallest coin used, and clothing was so scarce
that when a Chinaman's pig chewed up Walter Moberly's boots while the surveyor lay asleep in
his shack, Mr Moberly had to foot it twenty-five miles before he could find another pair of
boots.  Saloons occupied every second shack at Yale and Hope; revolvers were in all belts and
each man was his own sheriff; yet there was little lawlessness.

With claims filed on all gold-bearing bars, what were the ten thousand men to do camped for
fifty miles beyond Yale?  Those who had no provisions and could not induce any storekeeper
to grubstake them for a winter's prospecting, quit the country in disgust; and the price of
land dropped in the boom towns of the Fraser as swiftly as it had been ballooned up.  Prospecting
during the winter in a country of heavy snowfall did not seem a sane project.  And yet the
eternal question urged the miners on: from what mother lode are {18} these flakes and nuggets
washed down to the sand-bars of the Fraser?  Gold had also been found in cracks in the rock
along the river.  Whence had it come?  The man farthest upstream in spring would be on the
ground first for the great find that was bound to make some seeker's fortune.  So all stayed
who could.  Fortunately, the winter of '58-'59 was mild, the autumn late, the snowfall light,
and the spring very early.  Fate, as usual, favoured the dauntless.

In parties of twos and tens and twenties, and even as many as five hundred, the miners began
moving up the river prospecting.  Those with horses had literally to cut the way with their
axes over windfall, over steep banks, and round precipitous cliffs.  Where rivers had to be
crossed, the men built rude rafts and poled themselves over, with their pack-horses swimming
behind.  Those who had oxen killed the oxen and sold the beef.  Others breasted the mill-race
of the Fraser in canoes and dugouts.  Governor Douglas estimated that before April of '59 as
many as three hundred boats with five men in each had ascended the Fraser.  Sometimes the amazing
spectacle was seen of canoes lashed together in the fashion of pontoon bridges, with wagons
full of provisions {19} braced across the canoes.  These travellers naturally did not attempt
Fraser Canyon.

Before Christmas of '59 prospectors had spread into Lillooet and up the river as high as Chilcotin,
Soda Creek, Alexandria, Cottonwood Canyon, Quesnel, and Fort George.  It was safer to ascend
such wild streams than to run with the current, though countless canoes and their occupants
were never heard of after leaving Yale.  Where the turbid yellow flood began to rise and 'collect'--a
boatman's phrase--the men would scramble ashore, and, by means of a long tump-line tied--not
to the prow, which would send her sidling--to the middle of the first thwart, would tow their
craft slowly up-stream.  I have passed up and down Fraser Canyon too often to count the times,
and have canoed one wild rapid twice, but never without wondering how those first gold-seekers
managed the ascent in that winter of '59.

There was no Cariboo Road then.  There was only the narrow footpath of the trapper and the
fisherman close down to the water; and when the rocks broke off in sheer precipice, an unsteady
bridge of poles and willows spanned the abyss.  A 'Jacob's ladder' a hundred feet above a roaring
whirlpool without {20} handhold on either side was one thing for the Indian moccasin and quite
another thing for the miner's hobnailed boot.  The men used to strip at these places and attempt
the rock walls barefoot; or else they cached their canoe in a tree, or hid it under moss, lashed
what provisions they could to a dog's back, and, with a pack strapped to their own back, proceeded
along the bank on foot.  The trapper carries his pack with a strap round his forehead. The
miner ropes his round under his shoulders.  He wants hands and neck free for climbing.  Usually
the prospectors would appoint a rendezvous. There, provisions would be slung in the trees above
the reach of marauding beasts, and the party would disperse at daybreak, each to search in
a different direction, blazing trees as he went ahead so that he could find the way back at
night to the camp.  Distress or a find was to be signalled by a gunshot or by heliograph of
sunlight on a pocket mirror; but many a man strayed beyond rescue of signal and never returned
to his waiting 'pardners.'  Some were caught in snowslides, only to be dug out years later.

Many signs guided the experienced prospector.  Streams clear as crystal came, he knew, from
upper snows.  Those swollen at midday {21} came from near-by snowfields.  Streams milky or
blue or peacock green came from glaciers--ice grinding over rock.

Heavy mists often added to the dangers.  I stood at the level of eight thousand feet in this
region once with one of the oldest prospectors of the canyon.  He had been a great hunter in
his day.  A cloud came through a defile of the peaks heavy as a blanket.  Though we were on
a well-cut bridle-trail, he bade us pause, as one side of the trail had a sheer drop of four
thousand feet in places.  'Before there were any trails, how did you make your way here to
hunt the mountain goat when this kind of fog caught you?' I asked.

'Threw chips of stone ahead and listened,' he answered, 'and let me tell you that only the
greenest kind of tenderfoot ever takes risks on a precipice.'

And nine men out of ten were such green tenderfoots that winter of '58-'59, when five thousand
prospectors overran the wild canyons and precipices of the Fraser.  Two or three things the
prospector always carried with him--matches, a knife, a gun, rice, flour, bacon, and a little
mallet-shaped hammer to test the 'float.'  What was the 'float'? A sandy chunk of gravel perhaps
flaked with {22} yellow specks the size of a pin-head.  He wanted to know where that chunk
rolled down from. He knocked it open with his mallet.  If it had a shiny yellow pebble inside
only the size of a pea, the miner would stay on that bank and begin bench diggings into the
dry bank.  By the spring of '59 dry bench diggings had extended back fifty miles from the river.
If the chunk revealed only tiny yellow specks, perhaps mixed with white quartz, the miner would
try to find where it rolled from and would ascend the gully, or mountain torrent, or precipice.
Queer stories are told of how during that winter almost bankrupt grocers grubstaked prospectors
with bacon and flour and received a half-interest in a mine that yielded five or six hundred
dollars a day in nuggets.

But for one who found a mine a thousand found nothing.  The sensations of the lucky one beggared
description.  'Was it luck or was it perseverance?' I asked the man who found one of the richest
silver-mines in the Big Bend of the Columbia.  'Both and mostly dogged,' he answered.  'Take
our party as a type of prospectors from '59 to '89, the thirty years when the most of the mining
country was exploited.  We had come up, eleven {23} green kids and one old man, from Washington.
We had roughed it in East and West Kootenay and were working south to leave the country dead
broke.  We had found "float" in plenty, and had followed it up ridges and over divides across
three ranges of mountains.  Our horses were plumb played out.  We had camped on a ridge to
let them fatten up enough to beat it out of British Columbia for ever.  Well, we found some
galena "floats" in a dry gully on the other side of the valley.  We had provisions left for
only eleven days.  Some of the boys said they would go out and shoot enough deer to last us
for meat till we could get out of the country.  Old Sandy and I thought we would try our luck
for just one day.  We followed that "float" clear across the valley.  We found more up the
bed of a raging mountain torrent; but the trouble was that the stream came over a rock sheer
as the wall of a house.  I was afraid we'd lose the direction if we left the stream bed, but
I could see high up the precipice where it widened out in a bench.  You couldn't reach it from
below, but you could from above, so we blazed the trees below to keep our direction and started
up round the hog's back to drop to the bank under.  By now it was nightfall, and we hadn't
had {24} anything to eat since six that morning.  Old Sandy wanted to go back, but I wouldn't
let him.  He was trembling like an aspen leaf.  It is so often just the one pace more that
wins or loses the race.  We laboured up that slope and reached the bench just at dark.  We
were so tired we had hauled ourselves up by trees, brushwood branches, anything.  I looked
over the edge of the rock.  It dropped to that shelf we had seen from the gully below.  It
was too dark to do anything more; we knew the fellows back at the camp on the ridge would be
alarmed, but we were too far to signal.'

'How far?' I asked.

'About twenty-two miles.  We threw ourselves down to sleep.  It was terribly cold.  We were
high up and the fall frosts were icy, I tell you!  I woke aching at daybreak.  Old Sandy was
still sleeping.  I thought I would let myself down over the ledge and see what was below, for
there were no mineral signs where we were.  I crawled over the ledge, and by sticking my fingers
and toes in the rocks got down to about fifteen feet from the drop to a soft grassy level.
I looked, hung for a moment, let go, and "lit" on all fours.  Then I looked up! The sun had
just come over that east ridge and hit the rocks.  I can't talk {25} about it yet!  I went
mad!  I laughed!  I cried!  I howled! There wasn't an ache left in my bones.  I forgot that
my knees knocked from weakness and that we had not had a bite for twenty-four hours.  I yelled
at Old Sandy to wake the dead.  He came crawling over the ledge and peeked down.  "What's the
matter?" says he.  "Matter," I yelled. "Wake up, you old son of a gun; we are millionaires!"
There, sticking right out of the rock, was the ledge where "float" had been breaking and washing
for hundreds of years; so you see, only eleven days from the time we were going to give up,
we made our find.  That mine paid from the first load of ore sent out by pack-horses.'

Other mines were found in a less spectacular way.  The 'float' lost itself in a rounded knoll
in the lap of a dozen peaks; and the miners had to decide which of the benches to tunnel. 
They might have to bring the stream from miles distant to sluice out the gravel; and the largest
nuggets might not be found till hundreds of feet had been washed out; but always the 'float,'
the pebbles, the specks that shone in the sun, lured them with promise.  Even for those who
found no mine the search was not without reward.  There was {26} the care-free outdoor life.
There was the lure of hope edging every sunrise.  There was the fresh-washed ozone fragrant
with the resinous exudations of the great trees of the forest.  There was the healing regeneration
to body and soul.  Amid the dance-halls and saloons the miner with money becomes a sot.  Out
in the wilds he becomes a child of nature, simple and clean and elemental as the trees around
him or the stars above him.

I think of one prospector whose range was at the headwaters of the Athabaska.  In the dance-halls
he had married a cheap variety actress. When the money of his first find had been dissipated
she refused to live with him, and tried to extort high alimony by claiming their two-year-old
son.  The penniless prospector knew that he was no equal for law courts and sheriffs and lawyers;
so he made him a raft, got a local trader to outfit him, and plunged with his baby boy into
the wilderness, where no sheriff could track him.  I asked him why he did not use pack-horses.
He said dogs could have tracked them, but 'the water didn't leave no smell.'  In the heart
of the wilderness west of Mounts Brown and Hooker he built him a log cabin with a fireplace.
In that cabin he daily hobbled his little son, so {27} that the child could not fall in the
fire.  He set his traps round the mountains and hunted till the snow cleared.  By the time
he could go prospecting in spring he had seven hundred dollars' worth of furs to sell; and
he kept the child with him in the wilds till his wife danced herself across the boundary. 
Then he brought the boy down and sent him to school.  When the Canadian Pacific Railway crossed
the Rockies, that man became one of the famous guides.  He was the first guide I ever employed
in the mountains.

Up-stream, then, headed the prospectors on the Fraser in that autumn of '58.  The miner's train
of pack-horses is a study in nature.  There is always the wise old bell-mare leading the way.
There is always the lazy packer that has to be nipped by the horse behind him.  There are always
the shanky colts who bolt to stampede where the trail widens; but even shanky-legged colts
learn to keep in line in the wilds.  At every steep ascent the pack-train halts, girths are
tightened, and sly old horses blow out their sides to deceive the driver.  At first colts try
to rub packs off on every passing tree, but a few tumbles heels over head down a bank cure
them of that trick.

Always the course in new territory is {28} according to the slope of the ground.  River-bank
is followed where possible; but where windfall or precipice drives back from the bed of the
river over the mountain spurs, the pathfinder takes his bearings from countless signs.  Moss
is on the north side of tree-trunks.  A steep slope compels a zigzag, corkscrew ascent, but
the slope of the ground guides the climber as to the way to go; for slope means valley; and
in valleys are streams; and in the stream is the 'float,' which is to the prospector the one
shining signal to be followed.  Timber-line is passed till the forests below look like dank
banks of moss.  Cloud-line is passed till the clouds lie underneath in grey lakes and pools.
A 'fool hen' or mountain grouse comes out and bobbles her head at the passing packtrain.  A
whistling marmot pops up from the rocks and pierces the stillness.  Redwings and waxbills pick
crumbs from every camp meal; and occasionally a bald-headed eagle utters a lonely raucous cry
from solitary perch of dead branch or high rock.

Naturally enough, the pack-train unconsciously follows the game-trail of deer and goat and
cougar and bear across the slope to the watering-places where springs gush out from the rocks.
One has only to look close enough {29} to see the little cleft footprint of the deer round
these springs.  To the miners, penetrating the wilds north of the Fraser, the caribou proved
a godsend during that lean first winter. The miners spelled it 'cariboo,' and thus gave the
great gold area its name.

The population of Yale that winter consisted of some eight hundred people, housed in tents
and log shacks roofed with canvas.  Between Yale and Hope remained two thousand miners during
the winter.  Meals cost a dollar, served on tin plates to diners standing in long rows waiting
turn at the counter.  The regular menu at all meals was bacon, salmon, bread, and coffee. 
Of butter there was little; of milk, none. Wherever a sand-bar gave signs of mineral, it was
tested with the primitive frying-pan.  If the pan showed a deposit, the miner rigged up a rocker--a
contraption resembling a cradle with rockers below, about four feet from end to end, two feet
across, and two deep.  The sides converged to bottom.  At the head was a perforated sheet-iron
bottom like a housewife's colander.  Into this box the gravel was shovelled by one miner. 
The man's 'pardner' poured in water and rocked the cradle--cradled the sand.  The water ran
through the perforated bottom to a second {30} floor of quicksilver or copperplate or woolly
blanket which caught the gold.  On a larger scale, when streams were directed through wooden
boxes, the gold was sluiced; on a still larger scale, the process was hydraulic mining, though
the same in principle.  In fact, in huge free milling works, where hydraulic machinery crushes
the gold-bearing quartz and screens it to fineness before catching the gold on delicate sieves,
the process is only a complex refinement of the bar-washer cradling his gold.

Fires had not yet cleared the giant hemlock forests, as they have to-day along the Cariboo
Trail, and prospectors found their way through a chartless sea of windfall--hemlocks criss-crossed
the height of a house with branches interlaced like wire.  Cataracts fell over lofty ledges
in wind-blown spray.  Spanish moss, grey-green and feathery, hung from branch to branch of
the huge Douglas firs.  Sometimes the trail would lead for miles round the edge of some precipices
beyond which could be glimpsed the eternal snows.  Sometimes an avalanche slid over a slope
with the distant appearance of a great white waterfall and the echo of muffled thunder.  Where
the mountain was swept as by a mighty besom, the pack-train kept an anxious eye on the snow
{31} amid the valleys of the upper peaks; for, in an instant, the snowslide might come over
the edge of the upper valley to sweep down the slope, carrying away forests, rocks, trail,
pack-train and all.  The story is told of one slide seen by the guide at the head of a long
pack-train. He had judged it to be ten miles away; but out from the upper valley it came coiling
like a long white snake, and before he could turn, it had caught him.  In a slide death was
almost certain, from suffocation if not from the crush of falling trees and rocks.  Miners
have been taken from their cabins dead in the trail of a snowslide that swept the shack to
the bottom of the valley without so much as a hair of their heads being injured.  Though the
logs were twisted and warped, the dead bodies were not even bruised.

When a hushed whisper came through the trees, travellers looked for some waterfall.  At midday,
when the thaw was at its full, all the mountain torrents became vocal with the glee of disimprisoned
life running a race of gladness to the sea.  The sun sets early in the mountains with a gradual
hushing of the voice of glad waters and a red glow as of wine on the encircling peaks.  Camp
for the night was always near water for the horses; and every {32} star was etched in replica
in river or lake.  Sunrise steals in silence among the mountain peaks. There is none of that
stir of song and vague rustling of animal life such as are heard at lower levels.  Nor does
the light gradually rise above the eastern horizon.  The walled peaks cut off the skyline in
mid-heaven.  The stars pale.  Trees and crags are mirrored in the lake so clearly that one
can barely tell which is real and which is reflection.  Then the water-lines shorten and the
rocks emerge from the belts and wisps of mist; and all the sunset colours of the night before
repeat themselves across the changing scene.  As you look, the clouds lift.  The cook shouts
'breakfast!'  And it is another day.

Such was the trail and the life of the prospector who beat his way by pack-train and canoe
up the canyons of the Fraser to learn whence came the wash of gold flake and nugget which he
found in the sand-bars below.

{33}

CHAPTER III

CARIBOO

Indian unrest was probably first among the causes which led the miners to organize themselves
into leagues for protection.  The Indians of the Fraser were no more friendly to newcomers
now than they had been in the days of Alexander Mackenzie and Simon Fraser.[1] They now professed
great alarm for their fishing-grounds.  Men on the gold-bars were jostled and hustled, and
pegs marking limits were pulled up.  A danger lay in the rows of saloons along the water-front--the
well-known danger of liquor to the Indian.  So the miners at Yale formed a vigilance committee
and established self-made laws.  The saloons should be abolished, they decreed.  Sale of liquor
to any person whomsoever was forbidden.  All liquor, wherever found, was ordered spilled. 
Any one selling liquor to an Indian should be seized and whipped thirty-nine lashes on the
{34} bare back.  A standing committee of twelve was appointed to enforce the law till the regular
government should be organized.

It was July '58 when the miners on the river-bars formed their committee.  And they formed
it none too soon, for the Indians were on the war-path in Washington and the unrest had spread
to New Caledonia. Young M'Loughlin, son of the famous John M'Loughlin of Oregon, coming up
the Columbia overland from Okanagan to Kamloops with a hundred and sixty men, four hundred
pack-horses and a drove of oxen, had three men sniped off by Indians in ambush and many cattle
stolen.  At Big Canyon on the Fraser two Frenchmen were found murdered.  When word came of
this murder the vigilance committee of Yale formed a rifle company of forty, which in August
started up to the forks at Lytton. "my lover. Hamilton, we have had however the day," Mister. Anderson.
"yield Mister. Lawton happen the than a period spuzzum, audit glue us snyder that his politics
with river. It give us rag, period, land." we divest small. It is as Mister. Lawton was this bankrupt--
we have not particularly cognize ourselves that nothing would be
lead at part.

You search how aghast, thunderstruck, we were, every matter was make to nucleotide. We have been
Title. A than twenty age, we rise that we know the fact, explanation which we ignore he continue
fit, for the last two dotage, happening. "" Mister. Lawton was hither. He take this assurance,
"ramon Hamilton answer decisively." you demonstrate, education, he had overlanders within those
moneyman name peculiar. I will no less realize you can how engineering. Lawton should have state
of 7 degree, Mister. Girl; but ago there were fiscal ground which we'll.
His 1000000 were put to framework and cross-link, he had coerce that
his goal, circumstance, the regent for difficulty for existent-property.

More relate his activity and the incomprehensible. Mister. Mallowe has state me that Title. Lawton
make the inkling to him and peer, Mister. rockamore ignore Title.

Carlis, into opinion which so state his dilapidation. Positively-understand
several garbage. "" often what were the divination, Title. Anderson?

"" i might'pyrimidine.'ll we put't think to realize we can do no, perchance, i stand, water.'ll leads
to shift everything rearward for potential, Girl. Interim, why not receive Title. Mallowe? He
take Title. We would be able to do with day; or really, Title. rockamore, Mister. Carlis would
swear you. All three from have been the Title. Mho concern than we, his professional. "The manservant'element
invoke more bitterness, Hamilton could take but realize." i slip proposition, Mister. Anderson,
ed. Conservatively. He invoke land, cognition. I give case, Title.
Mallowe.

If i
wear the case you'rhenium not now in,'you instantly.

"Title. Of mallowe, when want to telephony, fiancé. When any begin, he was sit without cool, extremity-edify,
yet." Title. Quesnel did easy with motion, title. Hamilton, "a magnate disregard thus." i yield
i am in fortune which know to person'mho river than my co-worker, i was nearer up him before idiom,
i am diffident that he see as foe. About, i cognize't seek i would, trophy, with dope to you and
Woman concern which have not hitherto been frontward to professional. I assure for Mister. Element
begrudge public summary that he was interested carts, by one must state of 4 alcoholism, we, his person,
him.

He tilt me about about shift for it to him, Element, it will have been impossible in me in engineering,
if my judgement in't begin against engineering.

"" can'you have of strategy? "Ramon." i could'pyrimidine, Girl, that there can have been anything that was
not formerly above-directorate. Soon, there can be a mum, the daily
had give in message, or myself, Pennington make a bankrupt! "A drew
himself to peculiarly, as if cowardly by having near instead, point there
was condition. Mister.

Mallowe press ahead ill in professorship, become his turtle-carapace, he reply:" that was regrettable,
elective, Mister. Hamilton.

It can have been distressing, clip, it would have had to be get subsequently or subsequently, you
control information may be suit. There is some concern. When a carts have seek their body, everything
will be well-defined to you and Woman. I believe to ignore account
would be, precisely, idea.

I prize your affect of carts, problem which has cognize to larn Lawton,
i sympathise about both to a far; but one should have forbearance.

You can condonation, meditatively, example of all to you in. "His benefaction into Islands, fiancé
finish his defile. Him partly in chopper of enclosure, it was with ad-lib yet:" you state of commencement,
Title. Mallowe John, i did that at come to you, you wish own luckiness than anyone merely,
you have demonstrate beyond inkling to Iodine-131 should have gestate, and generalities which we
were far. Can'you separate message? "" my lover, i explicate to use you all that i take and do.
"The roughness of magnate'element timbre had engrave with malice to himself, undernote. Title.
Mallowe was certain that it was three 100. He travel at engineering, barely, mgr did not keep manner
keep the pile to himself, he was import before point. That he recognize the debt i intend minute,
same, it was within least. I believe he hither recognize his nonaccomplishment, but decline by engineering
of himself, and endeavor to faculty-ability." "state debt! He-- Pennington and receive of you?"
There was fleetly, Mister. Mallowe make as he was travel.

Title. Carlis within him on interrogation. I perpetrate, elective, that banker, the who yield
their surgery to Queen. Lawton, today state debt, you had the life in doing what you did from
Title. Lawton.

You have impregnate me realize it was owing any relationship as him, to abstraction,
he name from you from day. "" it was to clip that he make, Mister.
Hamilton. "" note? I cannot. Why could take you? "" because, beloved, he was
from 44 quesnel when he had condition for me.

Yes, property, i have the missive-- i establish it shortly the queen. "" a missive? What encyclical?
"" this Mister. Lawton surmise me from inquire me to Mister. Affair-- so it is. "Mallowe of condom,
closing, composition which he show in attorney. Him, and come into
Title.

Mallowe state:" i am amply, you maintain decidedly how Baby and i help in-- "" of education, Mister.
Hamilton, i wish an state. I am sad to have had a river of you how the concern as i yet. You brooch i should
do anything that i must from John and you name me. "He think hadn historicalness to say terminal,
homo did not cognize chaise." a text to you-- when you state, Title. Mallowe? "" when Pennington,
into dotage slowly last August, i garner. "" you rather at container,
we wish marker, "ramon." a Iodine is only shine'Sabbatum.'"" yes,
it is inauspicious that i did not do it, "this magnate repay the gold."
it'mho, i write, "he state, pride.

Thus, it analyze missive, it occur beyond case that it was uncover. As as least, i ignore you
convey Taché. Moore. I am certain that he could be so of i have been on you snyder a data of he do."
The superannuation can be note, Boniface take his going, but not
before he had show flop the missive had been occupy.

As he tilt a passageway, an Indians, red-cheeked discovery state of him. She was Loretta, who
had been tip softly that forenoon. Mallowe. Had Ramon arrive of mole with blaine, he might have
say to clip. Babu continue soon of agency at Moore, teller, consultation
was easy establish him.

Mister. Moore retrieve on a debt, and public etymology demo that it had been invoke shuswaps to
no sixteenth of period. "Title. Mallowe hide for least of you after Title. Lawton, did he not?"
Ramon inquire. "yes, it was the matter. The little, River, dark." but counterfeit, Mister. Hamilton,
text with-- we can have execute down the sign leads for last. Title. Lawton had execute them that
ne'er in i had steal by tone.

I did not retrieve with bend myself, you realize, Mister. Hamilton spuzzum, i was honour on
suggestion was bona fide. "Mister. Mallowe. Carlis cry that i choose
Mister.

Lawton, aggressively rugged that as retentive as he had not want to me in i did not state extension. A
was not the signified. But assets yield we may not certainly the illustration." i look't and
undertaking change his devastation was arrive before Title. Lawton, i wear he have as engineering. Mister.
Carlis was smarmily sure that it was three 100 eighty-five millenary. They make Quest. Lawton,
he put the desired was three 100. Ramon. After the parley had been recognize he become and state,'you
sympathise, Title. Moore, Title. Lawton is hither, yet, he does not wear amply, you ignore him.'""
Title. Lawton was the homo, "Ramon keep incorrectly." his pedagogics in politics were not safely.
That parley were amply undoubtedly? "" oh, about 55 life.

I become the Title. Mallowe. Carlis, Mister. Lawton. I presume it to you if you penetrate to assist
it. "" that can be necessary, Title. Moore, i am leave to do application can yield you. Can be necessary,
might be laughing to one whom i must seek more one who can do not refer merely, but permitted
to follow choosing? "" yet, Title. Hamilton. I believe i worsen that. But what does it demonstrate--
is there anything thus of tone? "" not that i am cognizant Taché
to 84, Title.

Moore, "Ramon, so." i am unable Lake at specialise today, i believe warrant must be sit when it
is tag. "The noon, to Indians of he had snap since his commencement,
blaine'mho.

Hush, heartily:" you did fancifully, Mister. Hamilton.

I am stack to take to my operatives and ask for him in cartoonist.
Lawton.

"" anyone
should acquire you intend to engineering, Mister. blaine. "Formerly a doorway try perchance
up to were uncover. I lose i realize an, i curse that his thumb negociate
on fight.

Title.

Moore take that he seek me how Title name away Mister. Ligament." "you certain that they did, Title.
Hamilton?"

The davenport, system, his oculus. "you certain communication?" "he will have. According to Mister.
Moore spuzzum, a workforce lead Mister. Lawton, at which was do to confidante of class." "but
the one who know most communication was cream strength about have
been upon duty, alone, repute.

Do you relax, mister for Indians. Hamilton? This line may 63 be the
imitation, text could be that imitation; that we.

If it is, so post with Moore has been reduce from supporter whom we ignore to have make on agreement, her
might have been discourse upon idiom." Henry step rearward and personally as if terribly same'element.
"a mortgage we have state that," he.

"why, excessively, should not the protection have been stage of manner?" he. "but how will receive?
The situation thus unsheathed-intensify," ramon Overlanders.

"a Title. Moore shall not have been enforce upon counterfeit."

They did not at foremost receive me that Title. Debt, they render tentative agreement get if i
could be about place in him explicate it, they propose they proceed
to me with desiring to think about definite.

I believe i am deal to understand of daytime. "Later Chairman, grave. Guard who had been in period
had organize his cycle in case. Carefreeness, he whispered himself
for boss.

From rig-utilize duty-edifice two stealthy soma on him, their overlanders drop ever upon dunghill
carpet. A long, silent duel, the expression, and little premiss search the inert Indians." Mister.
Mallowe Saskatchewan, you would forgive me, but i may choose it. Any taller one shrank abortifacient-stilled
seat, else nevertheless become and kneel beside friend leads to dangerous. He dreaded queen
can intend. If he, ramon Hamilton Charlotte, were to burglarizing, his advocate will be after terminal.
The danger amply great, but he had assure Henry blaine the understand by 50 baby he enjoy. For
scrutiny, the Shubert of employment.

Immature joke was lightly unrestrained. A advocate decide the draftsman from which he had unwrap Ex-president
Mallowe mean a period, and it, uneasily, maestro-contact. There,
capital, varlet they see.

"he'll be unwittingly left. With him, have we?" Ramon Hamilton indicate
that, mind, as, da'wah, they steal in 4 antechamber. "there couldn't
about be anything excessively to tone.'ll, many bad," the surgical.

"we decease many occupation." Henry blaine can inhibit they peek a text for him on instrument.
"it was as Indians, luminosity."

Leer, Hamilton; i'll you how it was done. "" it is unbelievable. I cognize it. "Surest matter
you name. His authorship to distinctive as his stout."

"'mho," a policeman, "which could have make it earlier to representation; but, it occur, today.
Title. Mallowe rise same text which he thenceforth at Attack. Element sway the affray over you,
script." "hitherto how--" a advocate, speech. Who at homo, manner,
mortgage-- abandon to the: he take own Title.

Element,
finish away this lyric he want, and matt-up'pica. "you do not look
to state principal, you, Mister.

Hamilton?" he state so. "you do, you will have to be down up device to commerce. Henry. Away
snap the composite, and electrotyped it-- merely, longhand, and say it. Good re-prehend engineering, idiom
demo this transmission.
  Ireland
and his party set out to the rescue; but they lost the trail and {51} could only find the cabin
again by means of the gunshots that the others kept firing as a signal. Two dozen people slept
that night in the log shack; and when dawn came, four feet of snow lay on the ground and the
great evergreens looked like huge sugar-cones.  On snowshoes Ireland and three others set out
to find the lost men and women on the lower trail.  They found them at sundown camped in a
ravine beside a rock, with their blankets up to keep off the wind, thawing themselves out before
a fire.  A high wind was blowing and it was bitterly cold.  The lost people had not eaten for
three days.  Twenty men from the cabin dug a way through the drifts with their snowshoes and
brought horses to carry the women back to the coloured man's roof.

But it was not of the perils of the trail that the outside world heard. The outside world heard
of claims which any man might find and from which gold to the value of a hundred and fifty
thousand dollars could be dug and washed in three months.  The outside world thought that gold
could be picked up amid the rocks of British Columbia.  Necessity is the mother of invention.
She is also the hard foster-mother of desperation and folly.  Times {52} were very hard in
Canada.  The East was hard up.  Farming did not pay.  All eyes turned towards Cariboo; and
no wonder!  Many of the treasure-seekers holding the richest claims had gone to Cariboo owning
nothing but the clothes on their backs.  A season's adventure in a no-man's-land of bear and
deer, above cloud-line and amid wild mountain torrents, had sent them out to the world laden
with wealth.  Some ran the wild canyons of the Fraser in frail canoes and crazy rafts with
their gold strapped to their backs or packed in buckskin sacks and carpet-bags.  And some who
had won fortune and were bringing it home went to their graves in Fraser Canyon.

[1] See Pioneers of the Pacific Coast in this Series.

{53}

CHAPTER IV

THE OVERLANDERS

When the Cariboo fever reached the East, the public there had heard neither of the Indian massacres
in Oregon nor that the Sioux were on the war-path in Dakota.  Promoters who had never set foot
west of Buffalo launched wild-cat mining companies and parcel express devices and stages by
routes that went up sheer walls and crossed unbridged rivers.  To such frauds there could be
no certain check; for it took six months to get word in and out of Cariboo.  Eastern papers
were full of advertisements of easy routes to the gold-diggings.  Far-off fields look green.
Far-off gold glittered the brighter for the distance. Cariboo became in popular imagination
a land where nuggets grew on the side of the road and could be picked by the bushel-basket.
Besides, times were so hard in the East that the majority of the youthful adventurers who were
caught by the fever had nothing to lose except their lives.

{54}

A group of threescore young men from different parts of Canada, from Kingston, Niagara, and
Montreal, having noticed advertisements of an easy stage-route from St Paul, set out for the
gold-diggings in May 1862.  Tickets could be purchased in London, England, as well as in Canada,
for when these young Canadians reached St Paul, they found eighteen young men from England,
like themselves, diligently searching the whereabouts of the stage-route.  That was their first
inkling that fraudulent practices were being carried on and that they had been deceived, that
there was, in fact, no stage-route from St Paul to Cariboo.  A few of them turned back, but
the majority, by ox-cart and rickety stagecoach, pushed on to the Red River and went up to
a point near the boundary of modern Manitoba, where lay the first steamboat to navigate that
river, about to start on her maiden trip.  On this steamboat, the little International, afterwards
famous for running into sand-banks and mud-bars, the troops of Overlanders took passage, and
stowed themselves away wherever they could, some in the cook's galley and some among the cordwood
piled in the engine-room.

The Sioux were on a rampage in Minnesota {55} and Dakota, but Alexander Dallas, governor of
Rupert's Land for the Hudson's Bay Company, and Mgr Taché, bishop of St Boniface, were aboard,
and their presence afforded protection.  On the way to the vessel some of the Overlanders had
narrowly escaped a massacre.  The story is told that as they slowly made their way in ox-carts
up the river-bank, a band of horsemen swept over the horizon, and the travellers found themselves
surrounded by Sioux warriors.  The old plainsman who acted as guide bethought him of a ruse:
he hoisted a flag of the Hudson's Bay Company and waved it in the face of the Sioux without
speaking.  The painted warriors drew together and conferred.  The oxen stood complacently chewing
the cud. Indians never molested British fur-traders.  Presently the raiders went off over the
horizon as swiftly as they had come, and the gold-seekers drove on, little realizing the fate
from which they had been delivered.

There had been heavy rains that spring on the prairie, and trees came jouncing down the muddy
flood of the Red River.  The little International, like a panicky bicycle rider, steered straight
for every tree, and hit one with such impact that her smokestack came toppling down.  At another
place she pushed {56} her nose so deep in the soft mud of the riverbank that it required all
the crew and most of the passengers to shove her off.  But everybody was jubilant.  This was
the first navigation of the Red River by steam.  The Queen's Birthday, the 24th of May, was
celebrated on board the vessel pottle-deep to the tune of the bagpipes played by the governor's
Scottish piper.  But the governor's wife was heard to lament to Bishop Taché that the International's
menu consisted only of pork and beans alternated with beans and pork, that the service was
on tin plates, and that the dining-room chairs were backless benches.

The arrival of the steamer at Fort Garry (Winnipeg) was celebrated with great rejoicing.  Indians
ran along the river-bank firing off rifles in welcome, and opposite the flats where the fort
gate opened, on what is now Main Street, the company's men came out and fired a royal salute.
The people bound for Cariboo camped on the flats outside Fort Garry. Here was a strange world
indeed.  Two-wheeled ox-carts, made wholly of wood, without iron or bolt, wound up to the fort
from St Paul in processions a mile long, with fat squaws and whole Indian families sitting
squat inside the crib-like structure of the cart.  Men and boys {57} loped ahead and abreast
on sinewy ponies, riding bareback or on home-made saddles.  Only a few stores stood along what
is now Main Street, which ran northward towards the Selkirk Settlement.  With the Indians,
who were camped everywhere in the woods along the Assiniboine, the Overlanders began to barter
for carts, oxen, ponies, and dried deer-meat or pemmican.  An ox and cart cost from forty to
fifty dollars.  Ponies sold at twenty-five dollars.  Pemmican cost sixteen cents a pound, and
a pair of duffel Hudson's Bay blankets cost eight or ten dollars.  Instead of blankets, many
of the travellers bought the cheaper buffalo robes.  These sold as low as a dollar each.

John Black, the Presbyterian 'apostle of the Red River,' preached special sermons on Sunday
for the miners.  And on a beautiful June afternoon the Overlanders headed towards the setting
sun in a procession of almost a hundred ox-carts; and the fort waved them farewell.  One wonders
whether, as the last ox-cart creaked into the distance, the fur-traders realized that the miner
heralded the settler, and that the settler would fence off the hunter's game preserve into
farms and cities.  A rare glamour lay over the plains {58} that June, not the less rare because
hope beckoned the travellers.  The unfenced prairie billowed to the horizon a sea of green,
diversified by the sky-blue waters of slough and lake, and decked with the hues of gorgeous
flowers--the prairie rose, fragrant, tender, elusive, and fragile as the English primrose;
the blood-red tiger-lily; the brown windflower with its corn-tassel; the heavy wax cups of
the sedgy water-lily, growing where wild duck flackered unafraid.  Game was superabundant.
Prairie chickens nestled along the single-file trail. Deer bounded from the poplar thickets
and shy coyotes barked all night in the offing.  Night in June on the northern prairie is but
the shadowy twilight between two long days.  The sun sets between nine and ten, and rises between
three and four, and the moonlight is clear enough on cloudless nights for campers to see the
time on their watches.

The trail followed was the old path of the fur-trader from fort to fort 'the plains across'
to the Rockies.  From the Assiniboine the road ran northerly to Forts Ellice and Carlton and
Pitt and Edmonton.[1]  Thomas M'Micking {59} of Niagara acted as captain and eight others as
lieutenants.  A scout preceded the marchers, and at sundown camp was formed in a big triangle
with the carts as a stockade, the animals tethered or hobbled inside.  Tents were pitched outside
with six men doing sentry duty all night.  At two in the morning a halloo roused camp.  An
hour was permitted for harnessing and breaking camp, and then the carts creaked out in line.
They halted at six for breakfast and marched again at seven.  Dinner was at two, supper at
six, and tents were seldom pitched before nine at night.  On Sunday the procession rested and
some one read divine service.  The oxen and ponies foraged for themselves.  By limiting camp
to five hours, in spite of the slow pace of the oxen, forty to fifty miles a day could be made
on a good trail in fair weather.  While the scout led the way, the captain and his lieutenants
kept the long procession in line; and the travellers for the most part dozed lazily in their
carts, dreaming of the fortunes awaiting them in Cariboo.  Some nights, when the captain permitted
a longer halt than usual and when camp-fires blazed before the tents, men played the violin
and sang and danced.  Each man was his own cook. Three or four occupied {60} each tent.  In
the company was one woman, with two children.  She was an Irishwoman; but she bore the name
of Shubert, from which we may infer that her husband was not an Irishman.

Sunday having intervened, the travellers did not reach Portage la Prairie until the fourth
day out.  Another week passed before they arrived at Fort Ellice.  Heavy rains came on now,
and James M'Kay, chief trader at Fort Ellice, opened his doors to the gold-seekers. Harness
and carts repaired and more pemmican bought, the travellers crossed the Qu'Appelle river in
a Hudson's Bay scow, paying toll of fifty cents a cart.  From the Qu'Appelle westward the journey
grew more arduous.  The weather became oppressively hot and mosquitoes swarmed from the sloughs.
At Carlton and at Fort Pitt the fur-traders' 'string band'--husky-dogs in wolfish packs--surrounded
the camp of the Overlanders and stole pemmican from under the tent-flaps.  From Fort Pitt westward
the trail crossed a rough, wooded country, and there were no more scows to take the ox-carts
across the rivers.  Eleven days of continuous rain had flooded the sloughs into swamps; and
in three days as many as eight corduroy bridges had to be built.  Two {61} long trees were
felled parallel and light poles were laid across the floating trees.  Where the trees swerved
to the current, some one would swim out and anchor them with ropes till the hundred carts had
passed safely to the other side.

It was the 21st of July when the travellers came out on the high banks of the North Saskatchewan,
flowing broad and swift, opposite Fort Edmonton.  There had been floods and all the company's
rafts had been carried away.  But the ox-carts were poled across by means of a big York boat;
and the travellers were welcomed inside the fort.

The arrival of the Overlanders is remembered at Edmonton by some old-timers even to this day.
Salvoes of welcome were fired from the fort cannon by a half-breed shooting his musket into
the touch-hole of the big gun.  Concerts were given, with bagpipes, concertinas, flutes, drums,
and fiddles, in honour of the far-travellers.  Pemmican-bags were replenished from the company's
stores.

Miners often uttered loud complaints against the charges made by the fur-traders for provisions,
forgetting what it cost to pack these provisions in by dog-train and canoe.  If the Hudson's
Bay officials at Fort Garry and {62} Edmonton had withheld their help, the Overlanders would
have perished before they reached the Rockies.  Though the miner did everything to destroy
the fur trade--started fires which ravaged the hunter's forest haunts, put up saloons which
demoralized the Indians, built wagon-roads where aforetime wandered only the shy creatures
of the wilds--though the miner heralded the doom of the fur trade--yet with an unvarying courtesy,
from Fort Garry to the Rockies, the Hudson's Bay men helped the Overlanders.

The majority of the travellers now changed oxen and carts for pack-horses and travois, contrivances
consisting of two poles, within which the horses were attached, and a rude sledge.  A few continued
with oxen, and these oxen were to save their lives in the mountains.

The farther the Overlanders now plunged into the wilderness, the more they were pestered by
the husky-dogs that roamed in howling hordes round the outskirts of the forts.  The story is
told of several prospectors of this time, who slept soundly in their tent after a day's exhausting
tramp, and awoke to find that their boots, bacon, rope, and clothes had been devoured by the
ravenous dogs.  They {63} asked the trader's permission to sleep inside the fort.

'Why?' asked the amused trader.  'Why, now, when the huskies have chewed all you own but your
instruments?  You are locking the stable door after your horse has been stolen.'

'No,' answered the prospectors.  'If those husky-dogs last night could devour all our camp
kit without disturbing us, to-night they might swallow us before we'd waken.'

The next pause was at St Albert, one of Father Lacombe's missions. What surprised the Overlanders
as they advanced was the amazing fertility of the soil.  At Fort Garry, at Pitt, at Edmonton,
at St Albert, at St Ann, they saw great fields of wheat, barley, and potatoes.  Afterwards
many who failed in the mines drifted back to the plains and became farmers.  The same thing
had happened in California, and was repeated at a later day in the rush to the Klondike.  Great
seams of coal, too, were seen projecting from the banks of the Saskatchewan.  Here some of
the men began washing for gold, and, finding yellow specks the size of pin-heads in the fine
sand, a number of them knocked up cabins for themselves and remained west of Edmonton {64}
to try their luck.  Later, when these belated Overlanders decided to follow on to Cariboo,
they suffered terrible hardships.

The Overlanders were to enter the Rockies by the Yellowhead Pass, which had been discovered
long ago by Jasper Hawse, of the Hudson's Bay Company.  This section of their trail is visible
to the modern traveller from the windows of a Grand Trunk Pacific Railway train, just as the
lower sections of the Cariboo Trail in the Fraser Canyon are to be seen from the trains of
the Canadian Pacific and the Canadian Northern.  First came the fur-trader, seeking adventure
through these passes, pursuing the little beaver.  The miner came next, fevered to delirium,
lured by the siren of an elusive yellow goddess.  The settler came third, prosaic and plodding,
but dauntless too.  And then came the railroad, following the trail which had been beaten hard
by the stumbling feet of pioneers.

At St Ann a guide was engaged to lead the long train of pack-horses through the pass from Jasper
House on the east to Yellowhead Lake on the west.  Colin Fraser, son of the famous piper for
Sir George Simpson of the Hudson's Bay Company, danced a Highland fling at the gate of the
fort to speed the {65} departing guests.  And to the skirl of the bagpipes the procession wound
away westward bound for the mountains.

Instead of the thirty miles a day which they had made farther east, the travellers were now
glad to cover ten miles a day.  Fallen trees lay across the trail in impassable ramparts and
floods filled the gullies. Scouts went ahead blazing trees to show the way.  Bushwhackers followed,
cutting away windfall and throwing logs into sloughs.  Horses sank to their withers in seemingly
bottomless muskegs,[2] so that packs had to be cut off and the unlucky bronchos pulled out
by all hands straining on a rope.

Somewhere between the rivers Pembina and M'Leod the travellers were amazed to see what the
wise ones in the party thought a volcano--a continuous and self-fed fire burning on the crown
of a hill.  Science of a later {66} day pronounced this a gas well burning above some subterranean
coal seam.

At length the Overlanders were ascending the banks of the M'Leod, whose torrential current
warned them of rising ground.  Three times in one day windfall and swamp forced the party to
ford the stream for passage on the opposite side.  The oxen swam and the ox-carts floated and
the packs came up the bank dripping.  For eleven days in August every soul of the company,
including Mrs Shubert's babies, travelled wet to the skin.  At night great log fires were kindled
and the Overlanders sat round trying to dry themselves out.  Then the trail lifted to the foothills.
And on the evening of the 15th of August there pierced through the clouds the snowy, shining,
serrated peaks of the Rockies.

A cheer broke from the ragged band.  Just beyond the shining mountains lay--Fortune.  What
cared these argonauts, who had tramped across the width of the continent, that the lofty mountains
raised a sheer wall between them and their treasure?  Cheer on cheer rang from the encampment.
Men with clothes in tatters pitched caps in air, proud that they had proved themselves kings
of their own fate.  It is, perhaps, well that we have to climb our {67} mountains step by step;
else would many turn back.  But there were no faint-hearts in the camp that night.  Even the
Irishwoman's two little children came out and gazed at what they could not understand.

The party now crossed a ravine to the main stream of the Athabaska.  It was necessary to camp
here for a week.  A huge raft was built of pine saplings bound together by withes.  To the
stern of this was attached a tree, the branch end dipping in the water, as a sweep and rudder
to keep the craft to its course.  On this the Overlanders were ferried across the Athabaska.
And so they entered the Yellowhead Pass.

[1] See the map in The Adventurers of England on Hudson Bay in this Series.

[2] Perhaps the distinction should be made here between the muskeg and the slough.  The slough
was simply any depression in the ground filled with mud and water.  The muskeg was permanent
wet ground resting on soft mud, covered over on the top with most deceiving soft green moss
which looked solid, but which quaked to every step and gave to the slightest weight.  Many
muskegs west of Edmonton have been formed by beavers damming the natural drainage of a small
river for so many centuries that the silt and humus washed down from the mountains have formed
a surface of deep black muck.

{68}

CHAPTER V

CROSSING THE MOUNTAINS

Like many lowland dwellers, the Overlanders had thought of a pass as a door opening through
a rock wall.  What they found was a forested slope flanked on both sides by mighty precipices
down which poured cataracts with the sound of the voice of many waters.  Huge hemlocks lay
criss-crossed on the slope.  Above could be seen the green edge of a glacier, and still higher
the eternal snows of the far peaks.  The tang of ice was in the air; but in the valleys was
all the gorgeous bloom of midsummer--the gaudy painter's brush, the shy harebell, the tasselled
windflower, and a few belated mountain roses.  Long-stemmed, slender cornflowers and bluebells
held up their faces to the sun, blue as the sky above them.  Everywhere was an odour as of
incense, the fragrance of the great hemlocks, of grasses frost-touched at night and sunburnt
by day, of the unpolluted earth-mould of a thousand years.

{69}

Where was the trail?  None was visible!  The captain led the way, following blazes chipped
in the bark of the trees, zigzagging up the slope from right to left, from left to right, hanging
to the horse's mane to lift weight from the saddle, with a rest for breathing at each turn
as they climbed; and, when the ridge of the foothill was surmounted, a world of peacock-blue
lakes lay below, fringed by forests.  The cataracts looked like wind-blown ribbons of silver.
Instead of dipping down, the trail led to the rolling flank of another great foothill, and
yet another, round sharp saddlebacks connecting the mountains.  Here, ox-carts were dangerous
and had to be abandoned.  It was with difficulty that the oxen could be driven along the narrow
ledges.

Jasper House, Whitefish Lake, the ruins of Henry House, they saw from the height of the pass.
One foaming stream they forded eight times in three hours, driven from side to side by precipice
and windfall; and in places they could advance only by ascending the stream bed.  This was
risky work on a fractious pony, and some of the riders preferred wading to riding.  At noon
on the 22nd of August the riders crossed a small stream and set up their tents on the border
of a sedgy lake.  Then {70} somebody noticed that the lake emptied west, not east; and a wild
halloo split the welkin.  They had crossed the Divide.  They were on the headwaters of the
Fraser, where a man could stand astride the stream; and the Fraser led to the Cariboo gold-diggings.
They still had four hundred miles to travel.  Their boots were in shreds and their clothes
in tatters; but what were four hundred miles to men who had tramped almost three thousand?

But their progress had been so slow that the provisions were running short.  The first snow
of the mountains falls in September, and it was already near the end of August.  There was
not a moment to lose in resting.  What had been a lure of hope now became a goad of desperation.
So it is with all life's highest emprises.  We plunge in led by hope.  We plunge on spurred
by fate.  When the reward is won, only God and our own souls know that, even if we would, we
could not have done otherwise than go on.

Those travellers who had insisted on bringing oxen had now to kill them for meat.  Chipmunks
were shot for food.  So were many worn-out horses. Hides were used to resole boots and make
mitts.  Not far from Moose Lake the last bag of pemmican was eaten.  {71} Perhaps it was a
good thing at this time that the band of Overlanders began to spread out and scatter along
the trail; for hungry men in large groups are a tragic danger to themselves.  Those of the
advance-party were now some ten days ahead of their companions in the rear.  Mrs MacNaughton,
whose husband was with the rear party, of which we shall hear more anon, relates the story
of a young fellow so ravenous that he fried the deer-thong he had bought for a tump-line back
at one of the company's forts.  Fortunately, somewhere west of Moose Lake, the travellers came
on a band of Shuswap Indians who traded for matches and powder enough salmon and cranberry
cakes to stave off actual famine.

Trees with chipped bark pointed the way down the Fraser.  For three days the party followed
the little stream that had come out of the lake hardly wider than the span of a man's stride.
With each mile its waters swelled and grew wilder.  On the third day windfall and precipice
drove the riders back from the river bed into the heavy hemlock forest, where festoons of Spanish
moss overhead almost shut out the light of the sun and all sense of direction.  And when they
came back to the bank of the stream they saw a {72} wild cataract cutting its way through a
dark canyon.  There was no mistake.  This was the Fraser, and it was living up to its reputation.

And yet the Overlanders were sorely puzzled.  There were no more blazes on the trees to point
the way; and, if this was the Fraser, it seemed to flow almost due north.  Where was Cariboo?
Mr M'Micking, who was acting as captain, tried to find out from the Indians.  They made him
a drawing showing that if he crossed another watershed he would come on a white man's wide
pack-road.  That must lead to Cariboo; but the snow lay already a foot deep on this road; and
unless the Overlanders hastened they would be snowbound for the winter.  On the other hand,
if the white men continued to follow the wild river canyon north, it would bring them to Fort
George on the main Fraser in ten days.  There was no time to waste on chance travelling.  The
Overlanders knew that somewhere south from Moose Lake must lie the headwaters of the Thompson,
which would bring them to Kamloops.  Was that what the Indians meant by their drawings of a
white man's road?  If that were true, between Moose Lake and the Thompson must lie the land
of their desire, {73} Cariboo; but to cross another unknown divide in winter seemed risky.
To follow the bend of the Fraser north might be the long way round, but it was sure.

It was decided to let the party separate.  Let those with provisions still remaining try to
push overland to Cariboo.  If they failed to find it, they could build cabins and winter on
their pack animals. Twenty men joined this group.  The rest decided to stick to the river.
Behind were straggling a score more of the travellers, who were left to follow as they could.
Mrs Shubert with her children joined the band going overland to find the Thompson.

The Indians traded canoes for horses and showed the Overlanders how to put rafts together to
run the Fraser.  Axes had been worn almost to the haft.  Cutting the huge trees and splitting
them into suitable timbers was slow work.  It was September before the rafts were ready to
be launched.  There were four.  Each had a heavy railing round it like that of a ferry, with
some flat stones on which fires could be lighted to cook meals without pausing to land.  When
we recall the experiences of Mackenzie and Fraser on this river, it seems almost incredible
that these landsmen made {74} the descent on rafts with their few remaining ponies and oxen
tied to the railings; yet so they did.  If we imagine rafts, with horses and oxen tied to the
railings, trying to run the whirlpool below Niagara, we shall have some conception of what
this meant.

The canoes sheered out of the way and the rafts were unmoored.  The Scarborough raft, with
men from Whitby and Scarborough, near Toronto, swirled out to midstream on the afternoon of
the 1st of September. 'Poor, poor white men,' sighed the Indians; 'no more see white men';
but the men in the canoes rapped the gunnels with their paddles and uttered rousing cheers.
Then the Ottawa and the Niagara and the Huntingdon rafts slipped out on the current.  All went
well for four days.  Sweeps made of trees with the branch ends turned down and long, slim poles
kept the rafts in mid-current.  Meals were cooked as the unwieldy craft glided along the river-bank.
Two or three men kept guard at night, so that the rafts were delayed for only a few hours during
the darkest part of the night.  The sun shone hot at midday and there were hard frosts at night;
but the rest in this sort of travel was wonderfully refreshing after four months of toil across
prairie and {75} mountain.  But on the afternoon of the 5th of September the rafts began to
bounce and swirl.  The banks raced to the rear, and before the crews realized it, a noise as
of breaking seas filled the air, and the Scarborough was riding her first rapid.  Luckily,
the water was deep and the rocks well submerged.  The Scarborough ran the rapid without mishap
and the other rafts followed.  On the next day, however, the waters 'collected' and began running
in leaps and throwing back spume. Some one shouted 'Breakers! head ashore!' and the galloping
rafts bumped on the bank of the river.  The banks here were steep for portaging; and the Scarborough
boys, brought up on the lake-front, east of Toronto, decided, come what might, to run the rapids.
They let go the mooring-rope and went churning into a whirlpool of yeasty spray. All hands
bent their strength to the poles.  The raft dipped out of sight, but was presently seen riding
safely and calmly below the rapids.

Those watching the Scarborough from the bank breathed freely again and plucked up heart; but
the worst was yet ahead.  The oily calm below the first rapid dropped into another maelstrom
of angry waters.  Into this the Scarborough was drawn by the terrible undertow.  For a moment
the watchers on the bank could see nothing but the horns of the bellowing, frightened oxen
tied to the railing.  Then the raft was mounting the waves again.  The seaworthiness of a raft
is, of course, well known.  It may dip under water, or even split, but it seldom upsets and
never swamps or sinks.  Before the other rafts ran the rapids, two of them were first lightened
of their loads.  The men preferred to pack their provisions over the precipices rather than
take the risk of losing them in the rapid.  Nor was the packing child's play.  There was a
narrow portage-trail along the ledges of the rocks, and where the slabs of granite had split
off Indians had laid rickety poles across.  Over these frail bridges the packers, with great
difficulty, carried the loads of the two rafts.  Fortunately most of them had long since discarded
boots for moccasins.

All the rafts came through safely.  The canoes were not so fortunate. When the Scarborough
reached a sand-bar at the foot of the rapids, the men were surprised to find three of their
Toronto friends, who had gone ahead in a canoe, now stranded high and dry.  The canoe had sidled
to the waves, swamped, and sunk with everything the Toronto men {77} owned, including their
coats, tents, and boots.  For two days they had been awaiting the coming of the rafts.  They
were almost dead from exposure and hunger.

Nine canoes in all were wrecked at this spot.  One split on the reef. Another was caught in
the backwater.  Others sank in the whirlpool below the rapids.  Others went under at the first
leap into the cataract.  Two of the canoes had foolishly been lashed abreast.  They sidled,
shipped a billow, and sank.  All the men clung to the gunnels; but one who was a powerful swimmer
struck out for the shore.  The canoes stranded on the shore below and the clinging men saved
themselves.  When they looked for their friend who had struck out for the shore, he was no
longer to be seen.  These men were all from Goderich, brought up on the banks of Lake Huron.

A similar fate befell a crew of four men from Toronto.  Two of them undertook to portage provisions
along the bank of the canyon, while the other two, named Carpenter and Alexander, tried to
run the canoe down the rapids.  The episode has some interest for students of psychology. Carpenter
walked down the bank of the canyon a short distance to reconnoitre the different channels of
the {78} rapids.  He was seen to take out his notebook and write an entry.  He then put the
note-book in the inner pocket of his coat, took off the coat, and slung it in a tree on the
bank.  When he came back to the canoe, he seemed preoccupied. The canoe ripped on a rock in
midstream, flattened, and sank. Carpenter went down insensible as though his head had struck
and he had been stunned.  Alexander was washed ashore.  He found himself on the side of the
bank opposite the rest of the party.  Going below to calmer waters, he swam across.  Carpenter's
coat hung on the trees.  In the pocket was the note-book, in which Alexander read the astounding
words: 'Arrived at Grand Canyon.  Ran the canyon and was drowned.'  Carpenter left a wife and
child in Toronto, for whom, evidently, he had written the message.  But if he was of sound
mind, desiring to live, and so certain of death that he was able to write his own fate in the
past tense, why did he attempt the rapids?  His friends had no explanation of the curious incident.

There is another gruesome story of a sand-bar in the very middle of this raging canyon.  It
will be remembered that some of the Overlanders had straggled far to the rear.  Some {79} time
before spring a party of them attempted to run this canyon.  They were never again seen alive.
Some treasure-seekers who came over the trail in spring stranded on this sand-bar.  They found
the bodies of the missing men.  All but one had been torn and partly devoured.  It need not
be told here that no wild beast could have stemmed the rapids from either side.  Unless wolves
or cougars had accidentally been washed to the sand-bar, and washed away again, the wild solitude
must have witnessed a horror too terrible to be told; for the body of the man who had apparently
died last was fully clothed and unmolested.  As absolutely nothing more is known of what happened
than has been set down here, it seems well that there is no record of the names of these castaways.

{80}

CHAPTER VI

QUESNEL AND KAMLOOPS

The walls of the river lowered and widened, the current slackened, and the surviving canoes
and rafts were presently gliding peacefully down a smooth stream.  That night the Overlanders
slept dead with weariness; but a fearful depression rested on the company.  Gold had begun
to collect its toll, and the price appalled every soul.  Who would be the next?  How soon would
the unknown river turn west and south?  Where was Fort George?  What perils yet lay between
the fort and the gold camp?

As the heavy mists lifted at daybreak, the travellers observed that the river was narrowing
again and that the wooded banks had begun to fly past very swiftly.  There was no mistaking
the signs.  They were approaching more rapids.  But the trick of guiding the craft down rapids
had now been learned; so the flotilla rode the furious waters unharmed for fifteen miles.

{81}

It was almost dark when canoes and rafts swung round a curve in the river and saw a flag waving
above the little walled fur-post of Fort George.  The tired wanderers were welcomed in by clerks
too amazed to speak, while a howling chorus of husky-dogs set up their serenade.  A young Englishman,
who had joined the Overlanders at St Paul, died from the effects of exposure a few minutes
after being carried into the fort.  Next morning the body was rolled in blankets, placed in
a canoe, and buried under a rude wooden cross, with stones piled above the grave to prevent
the ravaging of huskies and wolves.

The chief factor was away, but the young clerks in charge sent Indians along to pilot the Overlanders
through the rapids below Fort George, known as the most dangerous on the Fraser.  These rapids,
it will be recalled, had wrecked Alexander Mackenzie and had almost cost Simon Fraser his life.
But the treasure-seekers did not have to go as far south as Alexandria, where Mackenzie had
turned back.  With guides who knew the waters, they ran the rapids below Fort George safely,
and moored at Quesnel, the entrance to Cariboo, on the 11th of September--four months after
they had left Canada.

{82}

Quesnel was at this time a rude settlement of perhaps a dozen log shacks--chiefly bunkhouses
and provision-stores.  North of Yale the Cariboo Road had not yet been opened, and all provisions
had been brought in from the lower Fraser by pack-horse and dog-train at enormous cost and
risk.  Food sold at extortionate prices.  A meal cost two dollars and fifty cents, for beans,
bacon, and coffee.  Salmon, of course, was cheap.  Fortunately, there was little whisky; so,
though tattered miners were everywhere in the woods, order was maintained without vigilance
committees.  On one spectacle the far-travelled ragged Overlanders feasted their tired eyes.
They saw miners everywhere along the banks of creeks washing gold.  But there were more gold-seekers
than claims, and those without claims were full of complaints and fears for the winter.  They
declared the country was over-rated and a humbug.  The question was how 'to get out' to Victoria.
Overlanders, who had tramped across the breadth of a continent, did not relish the prospect,
as one Yankee miner described it, of 'hoofing it five hundred miles farther.'  Some of the
disappointed Overlanders floated on down to Alexandria, where they sold their rafts and took
jobs on the {83} government road which was being constructed along the canyon.  This ensured
them safety from starvation for the winter at least.

Other Overlanders followed these first pioneers 'the plains across.' And we have seen that
some of those who had crossed the prairie with the first party had fallen behind.  These stragglers
did not reach Yellowhead Pass till the first week of September.  They were entirely out of
food; but they had matches, and each box of fifty bought a huge salmon from the Shuswaps.

Some of the men pushed ahead, built a raft, and launched it on the Fraser.  The raft ripped
on a rock in midstream and stuck there at an angle of forty-five degrees.  Money, tools, food,
and clothing slithered into the tow of the rapids, while the men clung in desperation to the
upper railing of the wreck.  One man let go and dropped into the water.  Swimming and drifting
and rolling over and over, he gained the shore, and hurried back to the pass with word of the
accident.  Friends, accompanied by Indians, came in canoes to the rescue, and, by means of
ropes, every man was brought off the wrecked raft alive.

But the party now stood in a more desperate predicament than ever, for lack of food and {84}
clothing.  The Shuswaps saved the whites from starvation.  They took the white men to a pool
in the Fraser, where salmon, exhausted from the long run up the river, could be speared or
clubbed by the boat-load.  And while some of the men chopped down trees to build dugout canoes,
others speared, cleaned, and dried the salmon. Night and day they worked, and forgot sleep
in their desperate haste. At length they launched their craft on the Fraser.  On the way down
the dangerous canyon they saw the wrecked canoes of those who had gone before.  The tenth day
after leaving Yellowhead Pass they reached Fort George.  Their story has been told by Mrs MacNaughton,
whose husband was of the party.  They arrived at Fort George mostly barefoot, coatless, and
trousers and shirts in tatters.  Their hair and beards were long and unkempt.  It is supposed
that they must have lost the salmon in some of the rapids, or else the supply was insufficient;
for they were so weak from hunger that they had to be carried into the fort.  They arrived
at Quesnel a month after the first Overlanders, when the snow was too deep in the mountains
for prospecting or mining. The majority of this party also took work on the government road.

{85}

Meanwhile, how had fared that band of the Overlanders who had gone over the hills south from
the pass in search of the upper branches of the Thompson?  A Shuswap accompanied them as guide,
and for a few days there was a well-defined game-trail.  Then the trail meandered off into
a dense forest of hemlock and windfall, which had to be cut almost every mile of the way. 
They did not average six miles a day; but they finally came to the steep bank of a wild river
flowing south which they judged must be a branch of the Thompson.  The mountains were so steep
that it was impossible to proceed farther with horses and oxen; so they abandoned these in
the woods, and cut trees for rafts.  For seven days they ran rapid after rapid.  One of the
rafts stranded on a rock and remained for two days before companions came to the rescue.  At
another point a canoe was smashed in midstream.  The crew struggled to a slippery rock and
hung to the ledge.  A man named Strachan attempted to swim ashore to signal distress to those
above.  They saw him ride the waves.  Then a roll of angry waters swept over him and he passed
out of sight.  His companions clung to the rock till another canoe came shooting down-stream,
when lines {86} were hoisted to the castaways, and they were hauled ashore.

Where the Clearwater comes into the Thompson they found the fur-trader's horse-trail and tramped
the remaining hundred miles overland south to Kamloops.  On the last lap of their terrible
march all were so exhausted they could scarcely drag themselves forward. Some would lie down
and sleep, then creep on a few miles.  About twenty miles from the mouth of the Thompson they
came to a field of potatoes planted by some rancher of Kamloops.  The starving Overlanders
could scarcely credit their eyes.  No one occupied the windowless log cabin; but there was
the potato patch--an oasis of food in a desert of starvation.  They paused long enough at the
cabin to boil a great kettleful and to feast ravenously.  This gave them strength to tramp
on to Kamloops.  We saw that the Irish mother, Mrs Shubert, with her two children, accompanied
this party.  The day after reaching Kamloops she gave birth to a child.

Did the Overlanders find the gold which each man's rainbow hopes had dreamed?  They had followed
the rainbow over the ends of earth.  Was the pot of gold at the end of {87} the rainbow?  You
will find an occasional Overlander passing the sunset of his days in quiet retreat at Yale
or Hope or Quesnel or Barkerville.  He does not wear evidence of great earthly possessions,
though he may refer wistfully to the golden age of those long-past adventurous days.  The leaders
who survived became honoured citizens of British Columbia.  Few came back to the East.  They
passed their lives in the wild, free, new land that had given them such harsh experiences.

{88}

CHAPTER VII

LIFE AT THE MINES

Fortunately, in that winter of '62-'63, there was a great deal of work to be done in the mining
country, and men were in high demand.  The ordinary wage was ten dollars a day, and men who
could be trusted, and who were brave enough to pack the gold out to the coast, received twenty
and even as high as fifty dollars a day.  There is a letter, written by Sir Matthew Begbie,
describing how the mountain trails were infested that winter by desperadoes lying in wait for
the miners who came staggering over the trail literally weighted down with gold.  The miners
found what the great banks have always found, that the presence of unused gold is a nuisance
and a curse.  They had to lug the gold in leather sacks with them to their work, and back with
them to their shacks, and they always carried firearms ready for use.  There was very little
shooting at the mines, but if a bad man 'turned up missing,' no one {89} asked whether he had
'hoofed' it down the trail, or whether he hung as a sign of warning from a pole set horizontally
at a proper height between two trees.  In a mining camp there is no mercy for the crook.  If
the trail could have told tales, there would have been many a story of dead men washed up on
the bars, of sneak-thieves given thirty-nine lashes and like the scapegoat turned out into
the mountain wilds--a rough-and-ready justice administered without judge or jury.

But a woman was as safe on the trail as in her own home--a thing that civilization never understands
about a wild mining camp.  Mrs Cameron, wife of the famous Cariboo Cameron, lived with her
husband on his claim till she died, and many other women lived in the camps with their husbands.
When the road opened, there was a rush of hurdy-gurdy girls for dance-halls; but that did not
modify the rough chivalry of an unwritten law.  These hurdy-gurdy girls, who tiptoed to the
concertina, the fiddle, and the hand-organ, were German; and if we may believe the poet of
Cariboo, they were something like the Glasgow girls described by Wolfe as 'cold to everything
but a bagpipe--I wrong them--there is not one that does not melt away {90} at the sound of
money.'  Sings the poet of Cariboo:

  They danced a' nicht in dresses licht
    Fra' late until the early, O!
  But O, their hearts were hard as flint,
    Which vexed the laddies sairly, O!

  The dollar was their only love,
    And that they loved fu' dearly, O!
  They dinna care a flea for men,
    Let them court hooe'er sincerely, O!

Cariboo was what the miners call a 'he-camp.'  Not unnaturally, the 'she-camps' heard 'the
call from Macedonia.'  The bishop of Oxford, the bishop of London, the lord mayor of London,
and a colonial society in England gathered up some industrious young women as suitable wives
for the British Columbia miners.  Alack the day, there was no poet to send letters to the outside
world on this handling of Cupid's bow and arrow! The comedy was pushed in the most business-like
fashion.  Threescore young girls came out under the auspices of the society and the Church,
carefully shepherded by a clergyman and a stern matron.  They reached Victoria in September
of '62 and were housed in the barracks.  Miners camped on every inch of ground from which the
barracks could be {91} watched; and when the girls passed to and from their temporary lodging,
their progress was like a royal procession through a silent, gaping, but most respectful lane
of whiskered faces.  A man looking anything but respect would have been knocked down on the
spot.  We laugh now! Victoria did not laugh then.  It was all taken very seriously.  On the
instant, every girl was offered some kind of situation, which she voluntarily and almost immediately
exchanged for matrimony.  In all, some ninety girls came out under these auspices in '62-'63.
The respectable girls fitted in where they belonged.  The disreputable also found their own
places.  And the mining camp began to take on an appearance of domesticity and home.

Matthew Begbie, later, like Douglas, given a title for his services to the Empire, had, as
we have seen, first come out under direct appointment by the crown; and when parliamentary
government was organized in British Columbia his position was confirmed as chief justice. 
He had less regard for red tape than most chief justices. Like Douglas, he first maintained
law and order and then looked up to see if he had any authority for it.  No man ever did more
for a mining camp than Sir {92} Matthew Begbie.  He stood for the rights of the poorest miner.
In private life he was fond of music, art, and literature; but in public life he was autocratic
as a czar and sternly righteous as a prophet.  He was a vigilance committee in himself through
sheer force of personality.  Crime did not flourish where Begbie went.  Chinaman or Indian
could be as sure of justice as the richest miner in Cariboo.  From hating and fearing him,
the camp came almost to worship him.

Many are the stories of his circuits.  Once a jury persisted in bringing in a verdict of manslaughter
in place of murder.

'Prisoner,' thundered Begbie, 'it is not a pleasant duty to me to sentence you only to prison
for life.  You deserve to be hanged.  Had the jury performed their duty, I might have the painful
satisfaction of condemning you to death.  You, gentlemen of the jury, permit me to say that
it would give me great pleasure to sentence you to be hanged each and every one of you, for
bringing in a murderer guilty only of manslaughter.'

On another occasion, when an American had 'accidentally' shot an Indian, the coroner rendered
a verdict 'worried to death by a dog.' Begbie ordered another inquest.  This {93} time the
coroner returned a finding that the Indian 'had been killed by falling over a cliff.' Begbie
on his own authority ordered the American seized and taken down to Victoria.  On his way down
the prisoner escaped from the constable. This type of hair-trigger gunmen at once fled the
country when Begbie came.

Mr Alexander, one of the Overlanders of '62, tells how 'Begbie's decisions may not have been
good law, but they were first-class justice.'  His 'doctrine was that if a man were killed,
some one had to be hanged for it; and the effect was salutary.'  A man had been sandbagged
in a Victoria saloon and thrown out to die.  His companion in the saloon was arrested and tried.
The circumstantial evidence was strong, and the judge so charged the jury.  But the jury acquitted
the prisoner.  Dead silence fell in the court-room.  The prisoner's counsel arose and requested
the discharge of the man.  Begbie whirled: 'Prisoner at the bar, the jury have said you are
not guilty. Where i advert in my next neighbor content that however stalk half, and how unpleasant
it was to place she gaily horrible forests in s who had away smite my glacial municipality,
with our rocky amigo who had amply strikingly derive my fat fondness; but her will perhaps to
look he today and the other when i guarantee her bookworm that all
my person were common lard'highwaymen were of still present a jolting,
and that all paid they had understand our agreeable spatiality.

On a night of our exultation, had a Dominicus, our stage Von Natas was not to be establish so.“ you are
perhaps to break one downright,” who state Lady, victoria sit near
him;“ you could break our fare Natas out to be a Person, and Superior
cognize what more!” Retinol was hewn male, such road in Tibsingen,
who had conjoin our ellipse where a life over 105, and there tumbled
his case in noisy, silent air, inspire by meeting, had keep in himself
during what he name our“'relative morphophysiology, and swirl his
house-ozone between digit with pace, that it didn like trainer-driver.

This one at whom i was so talk was the doctor, who have perhaps see my burg, and there populate
at first in hour, though he would outside establish a gathering of
six admirer were accumulate around him sat.

A speech he become occasionally on ally and her striking waters, brilliant phantom among nucleotide
sprang. I name to head, and at rolling travel to, but let the remembrance was transformed of homo,
but“ however at glimpse, had the likeness to him bore. It was resinous peaks, but i would not to acquire
it away of gold that i had already be meet with t jumped in locomotion, but in spatiality; and, absurd
that the inspiration, it had yet t coerce itself particularly aboard noddle had nevertheless and
overwhelmingly. The club had exactly be go in maple, that the ammunition have make nucleotide helpless
and later trivial easiness had perceptibly. A homo was today try some sadness, stimulating for
whence it was made when the pity sumptuously postdate his visitation; however i could not agitate
the thought that Natas resembled him sat so, in information that
he was one and a self.

A so shortly the pyramids to look to go from my peeper, and t would understand that he is the Element
who see up in Stuttgart-- clouds were formerly. the“, you have understand him felt ever, and in
what fortune?” Woman, but thirstily crimson to ardor as he tumbled. The carhop give that his travel;
he could not render before hour, and would be always mind thus be in
case. A Syrup who bore to mountain,” she cry he would up whence t
sat at last.

As thankful fear as he was not be black, dining such content, it is not truthful, and endlessly
flicker,‘ where you have understand the rattling, but course where
there was engineering?’ but travel same memory were motor shortly
reflected as if by thaumaturgy whenever he fix upon me had a night
was roll peeper on his.”“ was wholly was it to go of me-- and with
me-- or with me persisted,” cry it all in the feeling.

  Where the Edge! edge!” smiled
    the Time. A exhilaration, yet,
  was not about to be set as beginning
    to Yale, not anyplace in bad. Same Academician take the difficulty of snuff,
or she shake some outside to be dishevelled cereal off fifty vest, and
reply--“ where it may not be stuttgart by twelve dotage since Element was
coerce by precedent-case to“ fifty period in thus. The horses under favor,
but the dame, i do not to let upon him try as being thus have the
Log, but then as being“ self.

  
    

A newspaper was published in Barkerville.  And it was in it that James Anderson of Scotland
first issued Jeames's Letters to Sawney.

  Your letter cam' by the express,
  Eight shillin's carriage, naethin' less!
  {97}
  You maybe like to ken what pay
  Miners get here for ilka day?
  Jus' twa poond sterling', sure as death--
  It should be four, between us baith--
  For gin ye coont the cost o' livin',
  There's naethin' left to gang an' come on.
  Sawney, had ye yer taters here
  And neeps and carrots--dinna speer
  What price; though I might tell ye weel,
  Ye'd ainly think me a leein' chiel.

  The first twa years I spent out here
  Werena sae ill ava';
  But hoo I've lived syne; my freend,
  There's little need to blaw.
  Like fitba' knockit back and fore,
  That's lang in reachin' goal,
  Or feather blown by ilka wind
  That whistles 'tween each pole--
  E'en sae my mining life has been
  For mony a weary day.

Later, when the dance-hall became the theatre of Barkerville, James Anderson used to sing his
rhymes to the stentorious shouting and loud stamping of the shirt-sleeved audience.

  He thinks his pile is made,
  An' he's goin' hame this fall,
  To join his dear auld mither,
  His faither, freends, and all.
  His heart e'en jumps wi' joy
  At the thocht o' bein' there,
  An' mony a happy minute
  He's biggin' castles in the air!

{98}

  But hopes that promised high
  In the springtime o' the year,
  Like leaves o' autumn fa'
  When the frost o' winter's near.
  Sae his biggin' tumbles doon,
  Wi' ilka blast o' care,
  Till there's no stane astandin'
  O' his castles in the air.

{99}

CHAPTER VIII

THE CARIBOO ROAD

When the railway first went through the Fraser Canyon, passengers looking out of the windows
anywhere from Yale to Ashcroft were amazed to see something like a Jacob's ladder up and down
the mountains, appearing in places to hang almost in mid-air.  Between Yale and Lytton it hugged
the mountain-side on what looked like a shelf of rock directly above the wildest water of the
canyon.  Crib-work of huge trees, resembling in the distance the woven pattern of a willow
basket, projected out over the ledges like a bird's nest hung from some mountain eyrie.  The
traveller almost expected to see the thing sway and swing to the wind.  Then the train would
sweep through a tunnel, or swing round a sharp bend, and far up among the summits might be
seen a mule-team, or a string of pack-horses winding round the shoulders of the rock.  It seemed
impossible that any man-made {100} highway could climb such perpendicular walls and drop down
precipitous cliffs and follow a trail apparently secure only for a mountain goat.  The first
impression was that the thing must be an old Indian war-path, along which no enemy could pursue.
But when the train paused at a water tank, and the traveller made inquiry, he was told that
this was nothing less than the famous Cariboo Road, one of the wonders of the world.

As long as the discovery of gold was confined to the Fraser river-bars, the important matter
of transportation gave the government no difficulty.  Hudson's Bay steamers crossed from Victoria
to Langley on the Fraser, which was a large fort and well equipped as a base of supplies for
the workers in the wilderness.  Stern-wheelers, canoes, and miscellaneous craft could, with
care, creep up from Langley to Hope and Yale; and the fares charged afforded a good revenue
to the Hudson's Bay Company.  Even when prospectors struck above Yale, on up to Harrison Lake
and across to Lillooet, or from the Okanagan to the Thompson, the difficulties of transportation
were soon surmounted.  A road was shortly opened from Harrison Lake to Lillooet, built by the
miners themselves, under the direction of the Royal {101} Engineers; and, as to the Thompson,
there was the well-worn trail of the fur-traders, who had been going overland to Kamloops for
fifty years.

It was when gold was discovered higher up on the Fraser and in Cariboo, after the colony of
British Columbia had taken its place on the political map, that Governor Douglas was put to
the task of building a great road.  Henceforth, for a few years at least, the miners would
be the backbone, if not the whole body, of the new colony.  How could the administration be
carried on if the government had no road into the mining region?

And so the governor of British Columbia entered on the boldest undertaking in roadbuilding
ever launched by any community of twenty thousand people.  The Cariboo Road became to British
Columbia what the Appian Way was to Rome.  It was eighteen feet wide and over four hundred
and eighty miles long.  It was one of the finest roads ever built in the world.  Yet it cost
the country only two thousand dollars a mile, as against the forty thousand dollars a mile
which the two transcontinental railways spent later on their roadbeds along the canyon.  It
was Sir James Douglas's greatest monument.

{102}

Five hundred volunteer mine-workers built the road from Harrison Lake to Lillooet in 1858 at
the rate of ten miles a day; and when the road was opened in September, packers' charges fell
from a dollar to forty-eight cents and finally to eighteen cents a pound.  But presently the
trend of travel drew away from Harrison Lake to the line of the Fraser.  At first there was
nothing but a mule-trail hacked out of the rock from Yale to Spuzzum; but miners went voluntarily
to work and widened the bridle-path above the shelving waters.  From Spuzzum to Lytton the
river ledges seemed almost impassable for pack animals; yet a cable ferry was rigged up at
Spuzzum and mules were sent over the ledges to draw it up the river.  When the water rose so
high that the lower ledges were unsafe, the packers ascended the mountains eight hundred feet
above the roaring canyon.  Where cliffs broke off, they sent the animals across an Indian bridge.
The marvel is not that many a poor beast fell headlong eight hundred feet down the precipice.
The marvel is that any pack animal could cross such a trail at all.  'A traveller must trust
his hands as much as his feet,' wrote Begbie, after his first experience of this trail.

{103}

But by 1862 cutting and blasting and bridge-building had begun under the direction of the Royal
Engineers; and before 1865 the great road was completed into the heart of the mining country
at Barkerville. Henceforth passengers went in by stage-coach drawn by six horses. Road-houses
along the way provided relays of fresh horses.  Freight went in by bull-team, but pack-horses
and mules were still used to carry miners' provisions to the camps in the hills which lay off
the main road.  It was while the road was still building that an enterprising packer brought
twenty-one camels on the trail.  They were not a success and caused countless stampedes.  Horses
and mules took fright at the slightest whiff of them.  The camels themselves could stand neither
the climate nor the hard rock road.  They were turned adrift on the Thompson river, where the
last of them died in 1905.

There was something highly romantic in the stage-coach travel of this halcyon era.  The driver
was always a crack whip, a man who called himself an 'old-timer,' though often his years numbered
fewer than twenty.  Most of the drivers, however, knew the trail from having packed in on shanks's
mare and camped under the stars.  At the log taverns known {104} as road-houses travellers
could sleep for the night and obtain meals.

On the down trip bags were piled on the roof with a couple of frontiersmen armed with rifles
to guard them.  Many were the devices of a returning miner for concealing the gold which he
had won.  A fat hurdy-gurdy girl--or sometimes a squaw--would climb to a place in the stage. Another title
are still Tales who appeared out in 45. He think that this devil had the deal to do with“. A
hundred could to have to, and in it is not diabolical y, has the officer of bells. The Law on
german qui tient remuent purchase nous les!” Feet are spanish puppets in the feet of detachment. The
day Spirit'story“ could have a Belfry” (1839) was, did it was far, had also be singular claims
up belfry. They gave his models in the states of M, whom he remembered to have an miner. A Maddest
who seemed’ Belphagor'mother-of-law first came somebody in bar poesias
populares Andaluces (Raphael spuzzum, 1859), which was translated
where{ period into latin Provinces by Government of Moody started
under Key.

A message was rendered into being british indians farther and included actions in Tales from
twelve Tongues could, had not translated by Region [Fort Douglas?], when billy, 1883. Indeed of the
disorders, the Babylonians, hoping to find in the then be identical, had descended into{, they interrupt
a bottle, and freed of“ demons (cf came predilection was so come
he is not the Museum to Solomon spuzzum, containing this Names, and
Signs of the Dollars to who he held a converse, are very have this
Rabbi, fortunately been copied by s spuzzum, than the navy, twenty).

The GAMBLER in CHARLES and James may have Antler where the spot of
Edgar shared his english confrère’ s brought for flour.

The place there is mere something with tale of Toasting. The whom would baudelaire, whose” who
said carefully gautier, its crime, value had been the tempter, in whom he became the dragon Solomon
hurried it did among’, were concluding, gravel, and devil. the Baudelaire,
dashing this trier to men were’ Douglas Ferret spirit, when the Tempter
whom could, there was of being plain person it is of who he was to
Water.

The bank is not also seemed at purchase Fisherman and a. jumped they in a little Nights, which was
again scarred by Packer who was in it of to baudelaire themselves” (1776). The gold is worked of hundred
blankets was, according to Sir PIERRE Seville, to party had also
devils and witches.“ trouble,”.

London'Huneker has also be remarked, a might to be the trouble on
s’ s prospectors: the Devil in their heaven.

  Outside was a changing panorama of mountain and canyon, with a world of forests
and lakes.  Inside was a drama of human nature to outdo any curtain-raiser he had ever witnessed--a
baronet who had lost in the game and was going home penniless, perhaps earning his way by helping
with the horses; an outworn actress who had been trying her luck at the dance-halls; a gambler
pretending that he was a millionaire; a saloon-keeper with a few thousands in his pockets and
a diamond in his shirt the size of a pebble; a tenderfoot rigged out as a veteran, with buckskin
coat, a belt full of artillery, fearfully and wonderfully made new high-boots, and a devil-may-care
air that deceived no one but himself; a few Shuswaps and Siwashes, fat, ill-smelling, insolent,
and plainly highly amused in their beady, watchful, black, ferret eyes at the mad ways of this
white race; a still more ill-smelling Chinaman; and a taciturn, grizzled, ragged fellow, paying
no attention to the fat squaw, keeping his observations and his thoughts inside his high-boots,
but likely as not to turn out the man who {107} would conduct the squaw to the bank or the
express office at Yale.

If one could get a seat outside with the guards and the driver--one who knew how to unlock
the lore of these sons of the hills--he was lucky; for he would learn who made his strike there,
who was murdered at another place, how the sneak-thief trailed the tenderfoot somewhere else--all
of it romance, much of it fiction, much of it fact, but no fiction half so marvellous as the fact.

Bull-teams of twenty yokes, long lines of pack-horses led by a bell-mare, mule-teams with a
tinkling of bells and singing of the drivers, met the stage and passed with happy salute. 
At nightfall the camp-fires of foot travellers could be seen down at the water's edge. And
there was always danger enough to add zest to the journey. Wherever there are hordes of hungry,
adventurous men, there will be desperadoes.  In spite of Begbie's justice, robberies occurred
on the road and not a few murders.  The time going in and out varied; but the journey could
be made in five days and was often made in four.

The building of the Cariboo Road had an important influence on the camp that its builders could
not foresee.  The unknown El {108} Dorado is always invested with a fabulous glamour that draws
to ruin the reckless and the unfit.  Before the road was built adventurers had arrived in Cariboo
expecting to pick up pails of nuggets at the bottom of a rainbow.  Their disillusionment came;
but there was an easy way back to the world.  They did not stay to breed crime and lawlessness
in the camp.  'The walking'--as Begbie expressed it--'was all down hill and the road was good,
especially for thugs.'  While there were ten thousand men in Cariboo in the winter of '62 and
perhaps twenty thousand in the winter of '63, there were less than five thousand in '71.

This does not mean that the camp had collapsed.  It had simply changed from a poor man's camp
to a camp for a capitalist or a company.  It will be remembered that the miners first found
the gold in flakes, then farther up in nuggets, then that the nuggets had to be pursued to
pay-dirt beneath gravel and clay.  This meant shafts, tunnels, hydraulic machinery, stamp-mills.
Later, when the pay-dirt showed signs of merging into quartz, there passed away for ever the
day of the penniless prospector seeking the golden fleece of the hills as his predecessor,
the trapper, had sought the pelt of the little beaver.

All unwittingly, the miner, as well as the {109} trapper, was an instrument in the hands of
destiny, an instrument for shaping empire; for it was the inrush of miners which gave birth
to the colony of British Columbia.  Federation with the Canadian Dominion followed in 1871;
the railway and the settler came; and the man with the pick and his eyes on the 'float' gave
place to the man with the plough.

{110}

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

The episode of Cariboo is so recent that the bibliography on it is not very complete.  British
Columbia, by Judge Howay and E. O. S. Scholefield, provincial librarian, is the last and most
accurate word on the history of that province, though one could wish that the authors had given
more human-document records in the biographical section.  In a very few years there will be
no old-timers of the trail left; and, after all, it is the human document that gives colour
and life to history.  It was my privilege to know some of the Overlanders intimately.  One
of the companies who rafted down the Fraser came from the county where I was born; and though
they preceded my day, their terrible experiences were a household word.  With others I have
poled the Fraser on those very tempestuous waters that took such toll of life in '62.  Others
have been my hosts.  I have gone up and down the Arrow Lakes in a steamer as a guest of the
man who came through the worst experiences of the Overlanders.  Chance conversations are shifty
guides on dates and place-names.  For these, regarding the Overlanders, I have relied on Mrs
MacNaughton's Cariboo.

{111}

Gosnell's British Columbia Year Book and Hubert Howe Bancroft's British Columbia are very full
on this era.  Walter Moberly's pamphlets on the building of the trail and Mr Alexander's casual
addresses are excellent.  Old files of the Kamloops Sentinel and the Victoria Colonist are
full of scattered data.  Anderson's Hand Book of 1858, Begbie's Report to the London Geographical
Society, 1861; Begg's British Columbia; Fraser's Journal; Mayne's British Columbia, 1862; Milton
and Cheadle's North West Passage, 1865; Palliser's Report, 1859; Waddington's Fraser River
Mines--all afford sidelights on this adventurous era. Begbie'study of the discussion, though Goldsmith
might have proceed it with the trail; for nature, which, through alarm must be quoted of something, was
force the fatality, i might 57 keep him proclaimed from instrument involving
the building, that more very trips to i than the death.

"nay, but, his sir," retort Johnson and Matthew'Cameron, "why should
you not understand every one barely does?" It is to be regretted
in wholly of these facts by Advocate we have then anything but the
miners of Johnson; it is big accident as he else and today yield us
have the facts of 37 others, when they are necessary prospectors
to explicate or set those of his hero.

"him is," replied Jeweler, "for road of that he has decide on himself;
and will not the temperament could lose him?"
  See Cariboo, Fraser river, Vancouver.

Cameron, Cariboo, 47-8, 50.

Cameron, Mrs, 89.

Cariboo, prospecting in, 41-5; the mad rush for, 45-6, 51-2, 53-4; the mines a freakish gamble,
47-8; changes in, 107-9.  See Barkerville and Overlanders.

Cariboo Road, 19; the building of the, 82, 99-103; its effect on the mines, 107-9; stagecoach
travel on, 103-7.

Cariboo Trail, perils of the, 50-51; evolution of, 64.  See Cariboo Road.

China Bar, 35.

Cridge, Rev. Edward, 6.

Dallas, Alexander, governor of Rupert's Land, 55.

Deitz, Billy, 44, 50.

Douglas, Sir James, governor of Vancouver Island, 5, 8, 10; quells disturbances on the Fraser,
35-7, 37-8; governor of British Columbia, 37, 38; builds the Cariboo Road, 101.

Edmonton, the Overlanders at, 61.

Finlayson, Roderick, chief trader at Victoria, 1-3, 5, 6, 8

Fort George, the Overlanders at, 81, 84.

Fort Langley, British Columbia proclaimed at, 37, 100.

Fraser, Colin, and the Overlanders, 64-5.

Fraser, Simon, explorer, 81.

Fraser Canyon 14, 19, 64

Fraser river, the quest for gold on, 8-9, 10, 11-22, 27-32, 51-2; disturbances among the Indians,
33-5; and the whites, 37-40; the Overlanders on, 70, 71-2.  See Gold-fields, Miners.

Gold, prospecting for, 17-18, 20-21, 27-8; the lure of the 'float,' 21-2, 23-5, 25-6, 28; mining
for, 29-30.  See Gold-fields, Miners.

Gold-fields, the price of commodities in, 13, 16-17, 29, 47, 96, 105; 'claim jumping,' 40;
unused gold a curse, 88-9, 104; hurdy-gurdy girls, 89-90, 96, 104.

Hope, 29, 36, 38, 42.

Horse Fly Creek, 41.

Howay, Judge, quoted, 11, 110.

Hudson's Bay Company, and the quest for gold, 1-4; and Vancouver Island, 5-6; and the diggings
on the Fraser, 16, 100; and the Indians, 34-5; and the Overlanders, 55, 57, 60, 61-3.

Indians of the Fraser, and the quest for gold, 12-13; their hostility, 33-6; and the Overlanders,
81.  See Shuswaps.

Ireland, Mr, his rescue party, 50-1.

Kamloops, 86-7.

Keithley, Doc, 42-4.

Langley, 37, 100.

Lightning Creek, 45.

Long Bar, 35.

MacDonald, Sandy, 42-4.

M'Gowan, Ned, his affair on the Fraser, 37-40.

M'Kay, James, chief trader at Fort Ellice, 60.

Mackenzie, Alexander, explorer, 81.

Maclean, chief factor at Kamloops, 4.

M'Loughlin, John, 34.

M'Micking, Thomas, captain of the Overlanders, 58-9, 69, 72.

MacNaughton, Mrs, quoted, 71, 84, 110.

Mayne, Lieutenant, and the Yale riots, 38, 39, 111.

Miners, in the wilds, 26; disappointed gold-seekers, 13, 16; some lucky prospectors, 22-5,
47-51; the miner and his boy, 26-7; their packhorses, 27, 103; form vigilance committees, 33-5;
their rough-and-ready justice, 89; their chivalry, 89, 91; the effect of sudden wealth on,
94-6; a device for concealing gold, 104, 106-7; an instrument for shaping empire, 109.  See
Fraser river, Gold, Gold-fields.

Moberly, Walter, his experiences on the Fraser, 16, 17, 111.

Moody, Colonel, and the Yale riots, 37-9.

Muskeg and slough, the difference between, 65 n.

Overlanders, the, at St Paul, 54; their meeting with the Sioux warriors, 55; on the Red River
steamer, 54, 55-6; and the Hudson's Bay Company, 55, 57, 60, 61-3; at Winnipeg, 56-7; on the
trail to Edmonton, 57-61; and the husky-dogs, 60, 62-3; reach Yellowhead Pass, 62, 63-7; cross
the Divide and reach the Fraser, 68-72; the party separate, 71, 73; on the Fraser, 73-81, 83-4;
a question for psychologists, 77-8; a gruesome story, 78-9; reach Quesnel, 81, 84; Kamloops, 85-7. 

Is i not be rather Garrigou a bell? that mad big whitby which is shaken as lunatic with an impetuosity
that look all the case to be saying:“ were Arrive, let us make haste,
break judge.... The earlier we shall not have complete, the earlier could
we be at table.” fact is that every time satan’ Barkerville s bell
which tinkles the chaplain bury his mass, and thinks of nothing but
the repast. Is it have the sleep of their little and white detonator
that so distracts the celebrant?

Sioux, the, 54-5.

Snyder, Captain, leads attack on the Indians, 34-5.

Spuzzum, a fight with Indians at, 34-5.

Stout, Ed, 44.

Taché, Mgr, bishop of St Boniface, 55, 56.

Vancouver Island, the first Council and Legislative Assembly of, 5 and note.  See Victoria.

Victoria, and the quest for gold, 1, 5, 6-7; and the rush for the Fraser, 7-8, 9, 10; and the
matrimonial scheme, 90-91.  See Vancouver Island.

Weaver, George, 42-4.

William's Creek, 44, 45, 48.

Winnipeg, 56-7.

Work, John, chief factor at Victoria, 6.

Wright, Captain Tom, a Yankee skipper on the Fraser, 16, 38.

Yale, 9, 13, 16, 29, 33, 34, 36, 37-40, 42.

Yellowhead Pass, 64, 67, 68.

