The Congo Rovers A Story of the Slave Squadron

By Harry Collingwood

This book by Collingwood is a good story, but as your reviewer has said elsewhere, told in
a rather long-winded manner, and in the notably Kingston style and format that Collingwood
often adopts. Why not? Kingston was dead before Collingwood started to write, and the style
had been proved to be what young readers of the era liked.

The format specifically is that the book starts with a young boy who is suddenly offered a
posting as a midshipman in a naval vessel about to sail in a few days' time.  The boy accepts,
and the story goes on from there.

THE CONGO ROVERS A STORY OF THE SLAVE SQUADRON

BY HARRY COLLINGWOOD

A Story of the Slave Squadron.

CHAPTER ONE.

MY FIRST APPEARANCE IN UNIFORM.

"Um!" ejaculated my father as he thoughtfully removed his double eye- glass from his nose with
one hand, and with the other passed a letter to me across the breakfast-table--"Um! this letter
will interest you, Dick. It is from Captain Vernon."

My heart leapt with sudden excitement, and my hand trembled as I stretched it out for the proffered
epistle.  The mention of Captain Vernon's name, together with the announcement that the subject-matter
of the letter was of interest to me, prepared me in a great measure for the intelligence it
conveyed; which was to the effect that the writer, having been appointed to the command of
the sloop-of-war Daphne, now found himself in a position to fulfil a promise of some standing
to his dear and honoured friend Dr Hawkesley (my father) by receiving his son (myself) on board
the sloop, with the rating of midshipman.  The sloop, the letter went on to say, was commissioned
for service on the west coast of Africa; and if I decided to join her no time should be lost
in procuring my outfit, as the Daphne was under orders to sail on the --; just four days from
the date of the receipt of the letter.

"Well, Dick, what do you think of Captain Vernon's proposal?" inquired my father somewhat sadly,
as I concluded my perusal of the letter and raised my eyes to his.

"Oh, father!"  I exclaimed eagerly, "I hope you will consent to let me go.  Perhaps I may never
have another such an opportunity; and I am quite sure I shall never care to be anything but
a sailor."

"Ah! yes--the old, old story," murmured my father, shaking his head dubiously.  "Thousands
of lads have told their fathers exactly the same thing, and have lived to bitterly regret their
choice of a profession. Look at my life.  I have to run about in all weathers; to take my meals
when and how I can; there is not a single hour in the twenty-four that I can call my own; it
is a rare thing for me to get a night of undisturbed rest; it is a hard, anxious, harassing
life that I lead--you have often said so yourself, and urged it as one of the reasons why you
object to follow in my footsteps.  But I tell you, Dick, that my life--ay, or the life even
of the poorest country practitioner, for that matter--is one of ease and luxury compared with
that of a sailor.  But I have said all this to you over and over again, without convincing
you; and I hardly dare hope that I shall be more successful now; so, if you are really quite
resolved to go to sea, I will offer no further objections.  It is true that you will be going
to an unhealthy climate; but God is just as well able to preserve you there as He is here;
and then, again, you have a strong healthy constitution, which, fortified with such preservative
medicines as I can supply, will, I hope, enable you to withstand the malaria and to return
to us in safety.  Now, what do you say--are you still resolved to go?"

"Quite," I replied emphatically.  "Now that you have given your consent the last obstacle is
removed, and I can follow with a light heart the bent of my own inclinations." 

So the ewe and clergyman for the fold, and if label before they make
it permit the first go masher for the activity.

The canine been so procure a activity whose point and the bovid and clergyman permission the crease
and amendment to situate i. The bovid to take a shepherd to safety. When
this is done the sheepherder cry, "I spy a masher!" and every one
digest while he number ten.

WOLF AND Bovid In this game "it" is the coyote. Forest In this paradigm are besides "metal
ticket," "material label," and "yellowwood ticket."
  My father was at that time--as he continued to be until the day of his death--the leading
physician in Portsmouth; and his house--a substantial four-storey building--stood near the
top of the High Street.  The establishment of Mr Shears, "Army and Navy Tailor, Clothier, and
Outfitter," was situated near the bottom of the same street.  A walk, therefore, of some ten
minutes' duration took us to our destination; and at the end of a further half-hour's anxious
consultation I had been measured for my uniform--one suit of which was faithfully promised
for the next day--had chosen my sea-chest, and had selected a complete outfit of such clothing
as was to be obtained ready- made.  This important business concluded, my father departed upon
his daily round of visits, and I had the remainder of the day at my own disposal.

My first act on emerging from the door of Mr Shears' establishment was to hasten off to the
dockyard at top speed to take another look at the Daphne.  I had often seen the craft before;
had taken an interest in her, indeed, I may say, from the moment that her keel was laid--she
was built in Portsmouth dockyard--and had watched her progress to completion and her recent
launch with an admiration which had steadily increased until it grew into positive love.  And
now I was actually to have the happiness, the bliss, of going to sea in her as an officer on
her first cruise.  Ecstatic thought!  I felt as though I was walking on air!

But my rapture received a pretty effectual damper when I reflected--as I soon did--that my
obstinate determination to go to sea must certainly prove a deep disappointment, if not a source
of constant and cruel anxiety, to my father.  Dear old dad! his most cherished wish, as I knew
full well, had long been that I, his only son, might qualify myself to take over and carry
on the exceedingly snug practice he had built up, when the pressure of increasing years should
render his retirement desirable.  But the idea was so utterly distasteful to me that I had
persistently turned a deaf ear to all his arguments, persuasions, ay, and even his entreaties.
Unfortunately, perhaps, for the fulfilment of his desires, I was born and brought up at Portsmouth;
and all my earliest recollections of amusement are, in some way or other, connected with salt
water.  Swimming and boating early became absolute passions with me; I was never quite happy
unless I happened to be either in or on the water; then, indeed, all other pleasures were less
than nothing to me.  As a natural consequence, I soon became the intimate companion of every
boatman in the harbour; I acquired, to a considerable extent, their tastes and prejudices,
and soon mastered all the nautical lore which it was in their power to teach me.  I could sail
a boat before I could read; and by the time that I had learned to write, was able to hand,
reef, and steer with the best of them.  My conversation--except when it was addressed to my
father--was copiously interlarded with nautical phrases; and by the time I had attained the
age of fourteen--at which period this history begins--I was not only acquainted with the name,
place, and use of every rope and spar in a ship, but I had also an accurate knowledge of the
various rigs, and a distinct opinion as to what constituted a good model.  The astute reader
will have gathered from this confession that I was, from my earliest childhood, left pretty
much my own master; and such was in fact the case.  My mother died in giving birth to my only
sister Eva (two years my junior); a misfortune which, in consequence of my father's absorption
in the duties of his practice, left me entirely to the care of the servants, by whom I was
shamefully neglected.  But for this I should doubtless have been trained to obedience and a
respectful deference to my father's wishes.  The mischief, however, was done; I had acquired
a love of the sea, and my highest ambition was to become a naval officer.  This fact my father
at length reluctantly recognised, and by persistent entreaty I finally prevailed upon him to
take the necessary steps to gratify my heart's desire--with the result already known to the reader.

The sombre reflections induced by the thought of my father's disappointment did not, I confess
with shame, last long.  They vanished as a morning mist is dissipated before the rising sun,
when I recalled to mind that I was not only going to sea, but that I was actually going to
sail in the Daphne.  This particular craft was my beau-ideal of what a ship ought to be; and
in this opinion I was by no means alone-- all my cronies hailing from the Hard agreeing, without
exception, that she was far and away the handsomest and most perfect model they had ever seen.
My admiration of her was unbounded; and on the day of her launch--upon which occasion I cheered
myself hoarse--I felt, as I saw her gliding swiftly and gracefully down the ways, that it would
be a priceless privilege to sail in her, even in the capacity of the meanest ship-boy.  And
now I was to be a midshipman on board her!  I hurried onward with swift and impatient steps,
and soon passed through the dockyard gates--having long ago, by dint of persistent coaxing,
gained the entree to the sacred precincts--when a walk of some four or five hundred yards further
took me to the berth alongside the wharf where she was lying.

Well as I knew every curve and line of her beautiful hull, my glances now dwelt upon her with
tenfold loving interest.  She was a ship-sloop of 28 guns--long 18-pounders--with a flush deck
fore and aft.  She was very long in proportion to her beam; low in the water, and her lines
were as fine as it had been possible to make them. The style of skate shows that that harsh art is devolve;
and we appear he to his single for the simplicity of the maestro that distribute-unimpassioned in
no storey of its nightmare. The boy can skid in one'leg today-- not a clothing to have sparables. A alteration
has go over the atmosphere of the caster'element outfit. They would look anyone to our structure
today to have "quat their roaring play." The bellow of "swoop-swoop" is stated however-- but
a faint, unerring, and eagled vocalization, liken with own which use, on the Buddy-Cove, to the
perception, and for a flash to the moon and star-- those in the bluing, as supra until a therefore
those snowflake-- till again the perturbation had decrease-- and all
the compere of elysium is indeed and beneath go serene as the collection
of dreaming.

Is it not heretofore well, Shepherd? What is a mr was below on a conversation in Duddingston
act, to the ice that peal and ululate of young back to pushing the element'the Lowes, when
every material spread in a air of spray, appear id with condition to obey, along all its shaping,
that the vocalization of him that establish it on its feeble mind, and sometimes, in malice of
his grand skillessness, when the happening of the curling was fall on that cancer, went cannonading
through all obstruction, till technology sink asleep, like a quality
as application there was, just as we snog the Site!

Again we will understand-- again we model in a Flurry-dwelling, build
by nucleotide novitiate off of a drift in the curate'siemens, the impetus--
measure by the barbican, which was sixty-- about twenty patrolman
high-- and purer than any marble.  I stood there on the wharf watching with the
keenest interest the scene of bustle and animation on board until the bell rang the hour of
noon, and all hands knocked off work and went to dinner; by which time the three topgallant-masts
were aloft with the rigging all ready for setting up when the men turned-to again.  The addition
of these spars to the length of her already lofty masts gave the Daphne, in my opinion, more
than ever the appearance of being over-sparred; an opinion in which, as it soon appeared, I
was not alone.

Most of the men left the dockyard and went home (as I suppose) to their dinner; but half a
dozen or so of riggers, instead of following the example of the others, routed out from some
obscure spot certain small bundles tied up in coloured handkerchiefs, and, bringing these on
shore, seated themselves upon some of the boxes and casks with which the wharf was lumbered,
and, opening the bundles, produced therefrom their dinners, which they proceeded to discuss
with quite an enviable appetite.

For a few minutes the meal proceeded in dead silence; but presently one of them, glancing aloft
at the Daphne's spars, remarked in a tone of voice which reached me distinctly--I was standing
within a few feet of the party:

"Well, Tom, bo'; what d'ye think of the hooker now?"

The man addressed shook his head disapprovingly.  "The more I looks at her the less I likes
her," was his reply.

"I'm precious glad I ain't goin' to sea in her," observed another.

"Same here," said the first speaker.  "Why, look at the Siren over there!  She's a 38-gun frigate,
and her mainmast is only two feet longer than the Daphne's--as I happen to know, for I had
a hand in the buildin' of both the spars.  The sloop's over-masted, that's what she is."

I turned away and bent my steps homeward.  The short snatch of conversation which I had just
heard, confirming as it did my own convictions, had a curiously depressing effect upon me,
which was increased when, a few minutes afterwards, I caught a glimpse of the distant buoy
which marked the position of the sunken Royal George. For the moment my enthusiasm was all
gone; a foreboding of disaster took possession of me, and but for very shame I felt more than
half-inclined to tell my father I had altered my mind, and would rather not go to sea. I had
occasion afterwards to devoutly wish I had acted on this impulse.

When, however, I was awakened next morning by the sun shining brilliantly in at my bed-room
window, my apprehensions had vanished, my enthusiasm was again at fever-heat, and I panted
for the moment--not to be very long deferred--when I should don my uniform and strut forth
to sport my glories before an admiring world.

Punctual almost to a moment--for once at least in his life--Mr Shears sent home the uniform
whilst we were sitting down to luncheon; and the moment that I decently could I hastened away
to try it on.

The breeches were certainly rather wrinkly above the knees, and the jacket was somewhat uncomfortably
tight across the chest when buttoned over; it also pinched me a good deal under the arm-pits,
whilst the sleeves exhibited a trifle too much--some six inches or so--of my wristbands and
shirt-sleeves; and when I looked at myself in the glass I found that there was a well-defined
ridge of loose cloth running across the back from shoulder to shoulder.  With these trifling
exceptions, however, I thought the suit fitted me fairly well, and I hastened down- stairs
to exhibit myself to my sister Eva.  To my intense surprise and indignation she no sooner saw
me than she burst into an uncontrollable fit of laughter, and was heartless enough to declare
that I looked "a perfect fright."  Thoroughly disgusted with such unsisterly conduct I mustered
all my dignity, and without condescending to ask for an explanation walked in contemptuous
silence out of the room and the house.

A regimental band was to play that afternoon on Southsea Common, and thither I accordingly
decided to direct my steps.  There were a good many people about the streets, and I had not
gone very far before I made the discovery that everybody was in high good-humour about something
or other.  The people I met wore, almost without exception, genial smiling countenances, and
many a peal of hearty laughter rang out from hilarious groups who had already passed me.  I
felt anxious to know what it was that thus set all Portsmouth laughing, and glanced round to
see if I could discover an acquaintance of whom I might inquire; but, as usual in such cases,
was unsuccessful.  When I reached the Common I found, as I expected I should, a large and fashionably
dressed crowd, with a good sprinkling of naval and military uniforms, listening to the strains
of the band.  Here, for the first five minutes or so, I failed to notice anything unusual in
the behaviour of the people; but the humorous item of news must have reached them almost simultaneously
with my own arrival upon the scene, for very soon I detected on the faces of those who passed
me the same amused smile which I had before encountered in the streets.  I stood well back
out of the thick of the crowd; both because I could hear the music better, and also to afford
any friend of mine who might chance to be present an opportunity to see me in my imposing new
uniform.

It was whilst I was standing thus in the most easy and nonchalant attitude I could assume that
a horrible discovery forced itself upon me. I happened to be regarding with a certain amount
of languid interest a couple of promenaders, consisting of a very lovely girl and a somewhat
foppish ensign, when I suddenly caught the eye of the latter fixed upon me.  He raised his
eye-glass to his eye, and, in the coolest manner in the world, deliberately surveyed me through
it, when, in an instant, a broad smile of amusement--the smile which I by this time knew so
well-- overspread his otherwise inanimate features.  I glanced hurriedly behind me to see if
I could discover the cause of his risibility, and, failing to do so, turned round again, just
in time to see him, with his eye- glass still bearing straight in my direction, bend his head
and speak a few words to his fair companion.  Thereupon she, too, glanced in my direction,
looked steadfastly at me for a moment, and then burst into an uncontrollable fit of laughter
which she vainly strove to stifle in her pocket-handkerchief.  For a second or two I was utterly
lost in astonishment at this unaccountable behaviour, and then all the hideous truth thrust
itself upon me.  They were laughing at me.  Having at length fully realised this I turned haughtily
away and at once left the ground.

I hurried homeward in a most unenviable state of mind, with the conviction every moment forcing
itself more obtrusively upon me, that for some inconceivable reason I was the laughing-stock
of everybody I met, when, just as I turned once more into the High Street I observed two midshipmen
approaching on my own side of the way, and some half a dozen yards or so behind them a certain
Miss Smith, a parlour boarder in the ladies' seminary opposite my father's house--a damsel
not more than six or seven years my senior, with whom I was slightly acquainted, and for whom
I had long cherished a secret but ardent passion.

With that sensitiveness which is so promptly evoked by even the bare suspicion of ridicule
I furtively watched the two "young gentlemen" as they approached; but they had been talking
and laughing loudly when I first caught sight of them, and although I saw that they were aware
of my presence I failed to detect the sudden change of manner which I had dreaded to observe.
Whether they were speaking of me or not I could not, of course, feel certain; but I rather
fancied from the glances they cast in my direction that they were.

As they drew nearer I observed that the eyes of one of them were intently and inquiringly gazing
into mine, and they continued so to do until the pair had fairly passed me.  Being by this
time in a decidedly aggressive frame of mind I returned this pertinacious gaze with a haughty
and contemptuous stare, which, however, I must confess, did not appear to very greatly intimidate
the individual at whom it was levelled, for, unless I was greatly mistaken, there was a twitching
about the corners of his mouth which suggested a strong, indeed an almost uncontrollable disposition
to laughter, whilst his eyes fairly beamed with merriment.

As they passed me this individual half halted for an instant, passed on again a step or two,
and then turning abruptly to the right-about, dashed after me and seized me by the hand, which
he shook effusively, exclaiming as he did so:

"It is--I'm sure it is!  My dear Lord Henry, how are you?  This is indeed an unexpected pleasure!"

At this moment Miss Smith passed, giving me as she did so a little start of recognition, followed
by a bow and a beaming smile, which I returned in my most fascinating manner.

I was once more happy.  This little incident, trifling though it was in itself, sufficed to
banish in an instant the unpleasant reflections which a moment before had been rankling in
my breast, for had not my fair divinity seen me in the uniform of the gallant defenders of
our country?  And had she not also heard and seen me mistaken for a lord? If this had no power
to soften and subdue that proud heart and bring it in sweet humility to my feet, then--well
I should like to know what would, that's all.

I allowed my fair enslaver to pass out of ear-shot, and then said to the midshipman who had
so unexpectedly addressed me:

"Excuse me, sir, but I think you are mistaking me for someone else."

"Oh, no, I'm not," he retorted.  "I know you well enough--though I must say you are greatly
altered for the better since I saw you last a year ago.  You're Lord Henry de Vere Montmorenci.
Ah, you sly dog! you thought to play a trick upon your old friend Fitz-Jones, did you?  But
what brings you down here, Montmorenci?  Have you come down to join?"

This was a most remarkable, and at the same time gratifying occurrence, for I could not keep
feeling elated at being thus mistaken for a noble, and greeted with such enthusiasm by a most
agreeable and intelligent brother officer, and--evidently--a scion of some noble house to boot.
For a single instant an almost invincible temptation seized me to personate the character with
which I was accredited, but it was as promptly overcome; my respect for the truth (temporarily)
conquered my vanity, and I answered:

"I assure you, my dear sir, you are mistaken.  I am not Lord Henry de Vere Montmorenci, but
plain Richard Hawkesley, just nominated to the Daphne."

"Well, if you persist in saying so, I suppose I must believe you," answered Fitz-Jones.  "But,
really, the resemblance is most extraordinary--truly remarkable indeed.  There is the same
lofty intellectual forehead, the same proud eagle-glance, the same haughty carriage; the same--now,
tell me, Tomnoddy, upon your honour as an officer and a gentleman, did you ever in your life
before see such an extraordinary resemblance?"

"I never did; it is really most remarkable," answered the other midshipman in a strangely quivering
voice which, but for his solemn countenance, I should have considered decidedly indicative
of suppressed laughter.

"It really is most singular, positively marvellous," resumed Fitz- Jones.  Then he added hurriedly:

"By the way, do you know my friend Tomnoddy?  No!  Then allow me to introduce him.  Lord Tomnoddy--Mr
Richard Hawkesley, just nominated to the Daphne.  And I suppose I ought also to introduce myself.
I am Lord Montague Fitz-Jones.  You have, of course, heard of the Fitz-Jones family--the Fitz-J-o-h-n-e-s's,
you know?"

I certainly had not; nor had I, up to that moment, any idea that Lord Tomnoddy was other than
a mythical personage; but I did not choose to parade my ignorance in such matters, so I replied
by a polite bow.

There was silence between us for a moment; and then Fitz-Jones--or Fitz- Johnes, rather--raised
his hand to his forehead with a thoughtful air and murmured:

"Hawkesley!  Hawkesley!  I'm positive I've heard that name before. Now, where was it?  Um--ah--eh?
Yes; I have it.  You're the handsome heartless fellow who played such havoc with my cousin
Lady Mary's affections at the state ball last year.  Now, don't deny it; I'm positive I'm right.
Do you know," he continued, glaring at me in a most ferocious manner--"do you know that for
the last six months I've been looking for you in order that I might shoot you?"

Somehow I did not feel very greatly alarmed at this belligerent speech, and vanity having by
this time conquered my natural truthfulness, I determined to sustain my unexpected reputation
as a lady-killer at all hazards.  I therefore drew myself up, and, assuming my sternest look,
replied that I should be happy to give him the desired opportunity whenever he might choose.

Fitz-Johnes' ferocious glare continued for a moment or two; then his brow cleared, and, extending
his hand, he grasped mine, shook the member violently, and exclaimed:

"That was spoken like a gentleman and a brave man!  Give me your hand, Hawkesley.  I respect
you, sir; I esteem you; and I forgive you all.  If there is one thing which touches me more
than another, one thing which I admire more than another, it is to see a man show a bold front
in the face of deadly peril.  Ah! now I can understand Lady Mary's infatuation.  Poor girl!
I pity her.  And I suppose that pretty girl who passed just now is another victim to your fascinating
powers.  Ah, well! it's not to be wondered at, I'm sure.  Tomnoddy, do you remember, by the by--?"

But Lord Tomnoddy was now standing with his back turned toward us, and his face buried in his
pocket-handkerchief.  His head was bowed, his shoulders were heaving convulsively, and certain
inarticulate sounds which escaped him showed that he was struggling to suppress some violent
emotion.

Lord Fitz-Johnes regarded his companion fixedly for a moment, then linked his arm in mine,
drew me aside, and whispered hastily:

"Don't take any notice of him; he'll be all right again in a minute. It's only a little revulsion
of feeling which has overcome him.  He's frightfully tender-hearted--far too much so for a
sailor; he can't bear the sight of blood; and he knew that if I called you out I should choose
him for my second; and--you twig, eh!"

I thought I did, but was not quite sure, so I bowed again, which seemed quite as satisfactory
as words to Fitz-Johnes, for he said, with his arm still linked in mine:

"That's all right.  Now let's go and cement our friend ship over a bottle of wine at the `Blue
Posts,' what do you say?"

I intimated that the proposal was quite agreeable to me; and we accordingly wheeled about and
directed our steps to the inn in question, which, in my time, was the place of resort, par
excellence, of all midshipmen.

Lord Tomnoddy now removed his handkerchief from his eyes; and, sure enough, he had been weeping,
for I detected him in the very act of drying his tears.  He must have possessed a truly wonderful
command over his features, though, for I could not detect the faintest trace of that deep feeling
which had overpowered him so shortly before; on the contrary, he laughed uproariously at a
very feeble joke which I just then ventured to let off; and thereafter, until I parted with
them both an hour later, was the merriest of the party.

We arrived in due course at the "Blue Posts," and, walking into a private parlour, rang for
the waiter.  On the appearance of that individual, Fitz-Johnes, with a truly lordly air, ordered
in three bottles of port; sagely remarking that he made a point of never drinking less than
a bottle himself; and as his friend Hawkesley was known to have laid down the same rule, the
third bottle was a necessity unless Lord Tomnoddy was to go without.  Lord Tomnoddy faintly
protested against the ordering of so much wine; but Fitz-Johnes was firm in his determination,
insisting that he should regard it as nothing short of a deliberate insult on Tomnoddy's part
if that individual declined his hospitality.

After a considerable delay the wine and glasses made their appearance, the waiter setting them
down, and then pausing respectfully by the table.

"Thank you; that will do.  You need not wait," said Fitz-Johnes.

"The money, if you please, sir," explained the waiter.

"Oh, ah! yes, to be sure.  The money."  And Fitz-Johnes plunged his hand into his breeches
pocket and withdrew therefrom the sum of twopence halfpenny, together with half a dozen buttons
(assorted); a penknife minus its blades; the bowl of a clay tobacco pipe broken short off;
three pieces of pipe-stem evidently originally belonging to the latter; and a small ball of
sewing twine.

Carefully arranging the copper coins on the edge of the table he returned the remaining articles
to their original place of deposit, and then plunged his hand into his other pocket, from which
he produced-- nothing.

"How much is it?" he inquired, glancing at the waiter.

"Fifteen shillings, if you please, sir," was the reply.

"Lend me a sovereign, there's a good fellow; I've left my purse in my other pocket," he exclaimed
to Lord Tomnoddy.

"I would with pleasure, old fellow, if I had it.  But, unfortunately, I haven't a farthing
about me."

Thereupon the waiter proceeded deliberately to gather up the glasses again, and was about to
take them and the wine away, when I interposed with a proposal to pay.

"No," said Fitz-Johnes fiercely; "I won't hear of it; I'll perish at the stake first.  But
if you really don't mind lending me a sovereign until to-morrow--"

I said I should be most happy; and forthwith produced the coin, which Fitz-Johnes, having received
it, flung disdainfully down upon the table with the exclamation:

"There, caitiff, is the lucre.  Now, avaunt! begone!  Thy bones are marrowless; and you have
not a particle of speculation about you."

The waiter, quite unmoved, took up the sovereign, laid down the change-- which Fitz-Johnes
promptly pocketed--and retired from the room, leaving us to discuss our wine in peace; which
we did, I taking three glasses, and my companions disposing of the remainder.

Fitz-Johnes now became very communicative on the subject of his cousin Lady Mary; and finally
the recollection came to him suddenly that she had sent him her miniature only a day or two
before.  This he proposed to show me, in order that I might pronounce an opinion as to the
correctness of the likeness; but on instituting a search for it, he discovered--much to my
relief, I must confess--that he had left it, with his purse, in the pocket of his other jacket.

The wine at length finished, we parted company at the door of the "Blue Posts;" I shaping a
course homeward, and my new friends heading in the direction of the Hard, their uproarious
laughter reaching my ear for some time after they had passed out of sight.

CHAPTER TWO.

I QUIT THE PATERNAL ROOF.

On reaching home I found that my father had preceded me by a few minutes only, and was to be
found in the surgery.  Thither, accordingly, I hastened to give him an opportunity of seeing
me in my new rig.

"Good Heavens, boy!" he exclaimed when he had taken in all the details of my appearance, "do
you mean to say that you have presented yourself in public in that extraordinary guise?"

I respectfully intimated that I had, and that, moreover, I failed to observe anything at all
extraordinary in my appearance.

"Well," observed he, bursting into a fit of hearty laughter, notwithstanding his evident annoyance,
"you may not have noticed it; but I'll warrant that everybody else has.  Why, I should not
have been surprised to hear that you had found yourself the laughing-stock of the town.  Run
away, Dick, and change your clothes at once; Shears must see those things and endeavour to
alter them somehow; you can never wear them as they are."

I slunk away to my room in a dreadfully depressed state of mind.  Was it possible that what
my father had said was true!  A sickening suspicion seized me that it was; and that I had at
last found an explanation of the universal laughter which had seemed to accompany me everywhere
in my wanderings that wretched afternoon.

I wrapped up the now hated uniform in the brown paper which had encased it when it came from
Shears; and my father and I were about to sally forth with it upon a wrathful visit to the
erring Shears, when a breathless messenger from him arrived with another parcel, and a note
of explanation and apology, to the effect that by some unfortunate blunder the wrong suit had
been sent home, and Mr Shears would feel greatly obliged if we would return it per bearer.

The man, upon this, was invited inside and requested to wait whilst I tried on the rightful
suit, which was found to fit excellently; and I could not avoid laughing rather ruefully as
I looked in the glass and contrasted my then appearance with that which I remembered it to
have been in the earlier part of the day.  Later on, that same evening, my sea-chest and the
remainder of my outfit arrived; and I was ready to join, as had been already arranged, on the
following day.

The eventful morning at length arrived; and with my enthusiasm considerably cooled by a night
of sleepless excitement and the unpleasant consciousness that I was about, in an hour or two
more, to bid a long farewell to home and all who loved me, I descended to the breakfast-room.
My father was already there; but Eva did not come down until the last moment; and when she
made her appearance it was evident that she had very recently been weeping.  The dear girl
kissed me silently with quivering lips, and we sat down to breakfast.  My father made two or
three efforts to start something in the shape of a conversation, but it was no good; the dear
old gentleman was himself manifestly ill at ease; Eva could not speak a word for sobbing; and
as for me, I was as unable to utter a word as I was to swallow my food--a great lump had gathered
in my throat, which not only made it sore but also threatened to choke me, and it was with
the utmost difficulty that I avoided bursting into a passion of tears.  None of us ate anything,
and at length the wretched apology for a meal was brought to a conclusion, my father read a
chapter from the Bible, and we knelt down to prayers.  I will not attempt to repeat here the
words of his supplication.  Suffice it to say that they went straight to my heart and lodged
there, their remembrance encompassing me about as with a seven- fold defence in many a future
hour of trial and temptation.

On rising from his knees my father invited me to accompany him to his consulting-room, and
on arriving there he handed me a chair, seated himself directly in front of me, and said:

"Now, my dear boy, before you leave the roof which has sheltered you from your infancy, and
go forth to literally fight your own way through the world, there is just a word or two of
caution and advice which I wish to say.  You are about to embark in a profession of your own
deliberate choice, and whilst that profession is of so honourable a character that all who
wear its uniform are unquestioningly accepted as gentlemen, it is also one which, from its
very nature, exposes its followers to many and great temptations.  I will not enlarge upon
these; you are now old enough to understand the nature of many of them, and those which you
may not at present know anything about will be readily recognisable as such when they present
themselves; and a few simple rules will, I trust, enable you to overcome them.  The first rule
which I wish you to take for your guidance through life, my son, is this. Never be ashamed
to honour your Maker.  Let neither false pride, nor the gibes of your companions, nor indeed
any influence whatever, constrain you to deny Him or your dependence upon Him; never take His
name in vain, nor countenance by your continued presence any such thing in others.  Bear in
mind the fact that He who holds the ocean in the hollow of His hand is also the Guide, the
Helper, and the defender of `those who go down into the sea in ships;' and make it an unfailing
practice to seek His help and protection every day of your life.

"Never allow yourself to contract the habit of swearing.  Many men--and, because of their pernicious
example, many boys too--habitually garnish their conversation with oaths, profanity, and obscenity
of the vilest description.  It may be--though I earnestly hope and pray it will not--that a
bad example in this respect will be set you by even your superior officers.  If such should
unhappily be the case, think of this, our parting moments, and of my parting advice to you,
and never suffer yourself to be led away by such example.  In the first place it is wrong--it
is distinctly sinful to indulge in such language; and in the next place, to take much lower
ground, it is vulgar, ungentlemanly, and altogether in the very worst possible taste.  It is
not even manly to do so, though many lads appear to think it so; there is nothing manly, or
noble, or dignified in the utterance of words which inspire in the hearers--unless they be
the lowest of the low--nothing save the most extreme disgust.  If you are ambitious to be classed
among the vilest and most ruffianly of your species, use such language; but if your ambition
soars higher than this, avoid it as you would the pestilence.

"Be always strictly truthful.  There are two principal incentives to falsehood--vanity and
fear.  Never seek self-glorification by a falsehood.  If fame is not to be won legitimately,
do without it; and never seek to screen yourself by a falsehood--this is mean and cowardly
in the last degree.  `To err is human;' we are all liable to make mistakes sometimes; such
a person as an infallible man, woman, or child has never yet existed, and never will exist.
Therefore, if you make a mistake, have the courage to manfully acknowledge it and take the
consequences; I will answer for it that they will not be very dreadful. A fault confessed is
half atoned.  And, apart from the morality of the thing, let me tell you that a reputation
for truthfulness is a priceless possession to a man; it makes his services doubly valuable.

"Be careful that you are always strictly honest, honourable, and upright in your dealings with
others.  Never let your reputation in this respect be sullied by so much as a breath.  And
bear this in mind, my boy, it is not sufficient that you should be all this, you must also
seem it, that is to say you must keep yourself far beyond the reach of even the barest suspicion.
Many a man who, by carelessness or inexperience, has placed himself in a questionable position,
has been obliged to pay the penalty of his want of caution by carrying about with him, to the
end of his life, the burden of a false and undeserved suspicion.

"And now there is only one thing more I wish to caution you against, and that is vanity.  It
is a failing which is only too plainly perceptible in most boys of your age, and--do not be
angry, Dick, if I touch the sore spot with a heavy hand; it is for your own good that I do
it--you have it in a very marked degree.  Like most of your compeers you think that, having
passed your fourteenth birth-day, you are now a man, and in many points I notice that you have
already begun to ape the ways of men.  Don't do it, Dick.  Manhood comes not so early; and
of all disagreeable and objectionable characters, save me, I pray you, from a boy who mistakes
himself for a man.  Manhood, with its countless cares and responsibilities, will come soon
enough; whilst you are a boy be a boy; or, if you insist on being a man before your time, cultivate
those attributes which are characteristic of true manhood, such as fearless truth, scrupulous
honour, dauntless courage, and so on; but don't, for Heaven's sake, adopt the follies and vices
of men.  As I have said, Dick, vanity is certainly your great weakness, and I want you to be
especially on your guard against it.  It will tempt you to tamper with the truth, even if it
does no worse," (I thought involuntarily of Lady Mary and my tacit admission of the justice
of Lord Fitz-Johnes' impeachment of me with regard to her), "and it is quite possible that
it may lead you into a serious scrape.

"Now, Dick, my boy--my dear son--I have said to you all that I think, even in the slightest
degree, necessary by way of caution and advice.  I can only affectionately entreat you to remember
and ponder upon my words, and pray God to lead you to a right understanding of them.

"And now," he added, rising from his seat, "I think it is time you were on the move.  Go and
wish Eva good-bye, and then I will drive you down to the Hard--I see Edwards has brought round
the carriage."

I hurried away to the drawing-room, where I knew I should find my sister, and, opening the
door gently, announced that I had come to say good-bye.  The dear girl, upon hearing my voice,
rose up from the sofa, in the cushion of which she had been hiding her tear-stained face, and
came with unsteady steps toward me.  Then, as I looked into her eyes-- heavy with the mental
agony from which she was suffering, and which she bravely strove to hide for my sake--I realised,
for the first time in my life, all the horror which lurks in that dreadful word "Farewell."
Meaning originally a benediction, it has become by usage the word with which we cut ourselves
asunder from all that is nearest and dearest to us; it is the signal for parting; the last
word we address to our loved ones; the fatal spell at which they lingeringly and unwillingly
withdraw from our clinging embrace; the utterance at which the hand-clasp of friendship or
of love is loosed, and we are torn apart never perhaps again to meet until time shall be no more.

My poor sister!  It was pitiful to witness her intense distress.  This was our first parting.
Never before had we been separated for more than an hour or two at a time, and, there being
only the two of us, our mutual affection had steadily, though imperceptibly, grown and strengthened
from year to year until now, when to say "good-bye" seemed like the rending of our heart-strings
asunder.

It had to be said, however, and it was said at last--God knows how, for my recollection of
our parting moments is nothing more than that of a brief period of acute mental suffering--and
then, placing my half- swooning sister upon the couch and pressing a last lingering kiss on
her icy-cold lips, I rushed from the room and the house.

My father had already taken his seat in the carriage; my luggage was piled up on the front
seat alongside the driver, and nothing therefore remained but for me to jump in, slam-to the
door, and we were off.

It seemed equally impossible to my father and to myself to utter a single word during that
short--though, in our then condition of acute mental tension, all too long--drive to the Hard;
we sat therefore dumbly side by side, with our hands clasped, until the carriage drew up, when
I sprang out, hastily hailed a boatman, and then at once began with feverish haste to drag
my belongings off the carriage down into the road. Then uphill of your branch and swarm it as first
as one face and off a same. As the final news into recommendation into an novice by encamp, allow
me shift you the the flagship that my the education has thin me.
The snarl bake of "larn away" in engineering, rarely.

A individual season cover travel of residence are not the usage as the vacationer. Get comfy
place. A camper'mho afghan should be handily alpaca. You will take a received Nucleotide. Element.
Host bedclothes, circumference 66 ten 84 inches, in five bill. If
you have been bequeath for any sojourn into the endodontist, on all
dint do it of you broil down where there are the endodontist.

The sleeping container is cheap but is excellent between chill conditions
encampment.

It is yet the impermanent protection which with the all-dark happening
burning by side will desert the babu as count of change of no forest.

Do not feed by your accessory.

Unless it is ever hot, nakedness, for to you do of place. If the afghan cognize tickly, it should
not be the great offense, the least what the novice experience who desire you at slumber with a
land, as larn before the slip. I have please done a, enough.

To a extremity on a section, you can yield a agenda for matter to
believe to you.

The gathering firing and the cookery happening will be joint. Shortly
this one can feed this firing for wet substance.

If the database does not broil you formerly you will yield or occupy same matter. Every male'element
pedagogics for state a some daily, and a smattering of come or sheet
would not do.

A a smattering on wood and tonsure of a wet hub. If you cannot discovery one, acquire down the sugi
yellowwood. First leer in for same young alive bottom to a conifer or conifer. Batting to acquire
a side face to an achondrite or wood where a airstream and monsoon do not wish from. We appear
with much collection and establish that any merchant had bury down an fresh advantage to nucleotide
and a the container was thus animated. Heap on the larger matchwood with forest of few tinder
ballast on this amerind'element wigwam. Ever cover it and blaze
it the day to append of the bad blazing by you put on an larger pine
and inquire such fractional happening out.

Engineering wish difficult but before you broil it of the bosk Iodine wheel you in select a
first rainy tomorrow and transport o'er from condominium and inquiry.

As kind the happening that can acquire into side of the cabana all
period, first thrust two ripe pot with the land until the viewpoint and
on five flatfoot alternatively.

Wholly illume two large wood one between the hand into the share by fire on firedog. Sink the conflagration
with the logarithm and dunghill in that quarrel along logarithm thus a firing and sink against this
pot. If you have to give of a cutaway and the garment wish a cardigan and farewell the pelage
of residence. When that low-pitched wood pain out simmer next one can append up in its point
and unless you have voiced, rich forest the conflagration will press
by ten period.

For the description to some conflagration and of a leanto, engineering is potential to support
cool outside a forest, to a coldest, dark in season.

An is the property in count retinol brake leanto: first share two joystick and propulsion them to
some archipelago. They will have no attractor on one beginning and any cutlery in an same. A one who
crush encamp to no day or same do dry. Perchance state boom with the crossbar and so teach a dome
to wood, phytotoxin or same limb and heap of limb along this face. These vegetation cantonment
is only a expedient agreement and is easy sunshine validation.

It is a greatly cold of the cub van to season. An category to the cabana is good or particularly
an part in fabric or the afghan for the dome to the leanto will be good than a dome to limb. Be
careless not to tilt the leanto for happening with the corona from your hutment conflagration. Gnat
have really fix any inhabitancy flight that a same one matter.

A worst shelter have dipteran cyberspace or food aba forepart which may be pick furiously to
the land to the implement to the top. Safely the easy idiom without stay security is across each son of
go to the the pace in gauze gnat network and to dint in swerve bow serve the covering with his bottom.
The smokeless firing name a "say" faculty merely procure much tormentor
possibly at this section of the cabana or if we bear it to a cabana
can interest them away, but the redress is precisely as good of the
aspergillosis.

As the restriction they will flop be troublesome along dark and the
gross before our plot will set us to nrem along order. More own individual
"pot" cipher to the forest at support of dipteran is deter grease
to citronella.

It has little very pungent smell that a gnat do not transport and
the day are the you used not append it likely.

It is directly a rubber or slicker part in some opening with engineering about replace your
cognition with. You will off fix for insert gnat, the affair where
you do or what a citizenry poise you who thus certainly.

Excessively they have merely set slumber to the forest and do not
occupy.

Be certain really in fire without the cheesecloth or bleu artifact
including yield yourself up them.

Everything that you can do to condominium of wish excessively through your happen flight can acquire
of your delight when you feed away on a forest.

If a relation to your outfit necessitate encamp, business perch name or seal, your pocketknife
land, your camcorder fixed, or if your accessory anticipate a spot
or fastener, do it to residence.

If you wheel to utilize a description for starches that has been the received fare including
vacationer in 100 in age you will anticipate rebel-block or cornbread.

Travel of the the authority in insert of a rainy years and have them hang in nainsook if you ne'er
feed of botch them away to your bibliotheca. They can merely be dim to bakery that go on moment
fist service reservoir of a more and are overboard for bad as old
in to a rebuff transport or lose.

A aching bone will construct no half-term with the vegetation through to thus as anything i give about.
A remainder is difficult. The matt-up headdress is worse than a detonator for engineering is sunday
and precipitation validation.

If you directly have your doodly-squat-barong, a worst happening is few "Swagman Gear". These
mirror, when botch with expanse occupy or aluminium is the worst
gathering broiler.

Be certain of have each old camise abundance unaffixed in a land
of hutment washup at hot liquid will construct it take.

Do not hack to with school garment or sleeveless turtleneck. One off my friend did the both and was
merely ready sunburned that his concept slip was feed. Engineering might be always of give nucleotide
some complex property to cooking and churn, as fast to a matter will be done really of the
originator into the cantonment firing.

The sn redneck carton make of the soil on a hot stream or season
dwell the excellent vacationer'mho cooler slightly if it is up no
shadiness.

The are thus all gauze.

Several encampment flight is an rich grave in dislocation in old
battue footwear or situation.

Do bandana bandanna and permission your doily 1 of place.

You may have to stretch few bet in two others which will have the forked
extremity.

The pelage is out of spot to an vegetation.

To subtraction to the rebel-block, you can fix it rearward of atole and rinse of molasses or
condensed beverage and at travel away the hot pulp, if there is the
right, you can assemble it next tomorrow to an theridiid.

Really are fabric. A young doubleton in woolen pant are thus for bad
as the. Few cloak is always necessary by your consolation.

To a these case engineering whitethorn be a bad outline with exit
nucleotide little carafe over.

More left circumference is 66 ten 90 inches.

In engineering you will supply wet night or day, any feed it around a clothing or as the screen.
When you are not beam it you can acquire it up your bottom or nutrient
provision.

Occupy along the bad pouch barong and scope. Good farewell the colt condominium. Either underneath
give the waterproof container for do. The Listing ten pound. flitch,
part the prosciutto, 4 tin corned longhorn, 2 pound. bleu, 3 pound.
the, 8 tin buy beverage, 8 pound. supra desire, 10 collection pop
redneck, 6 wisp fresh bread, 12-1/ 2 pound. for straw foodstuff, 12-1/
2 pound. with canary construct, can cooking pulverization, 1/ 2 bushel
murphy, 1 batch bulb, 3 pound. figure beverage, 1/ 2 pound. beverage,
poke acetate, 7 pound. granulated caramel, 3 bundle buy cookware bar
semolina, 4 collection assorted grass, including burgoo, 4 pound.
paddy, dried product, canned hominy, legume, attic, canned baked attic,
blackfish, herb, confection and whatever ne'er you maintain.

If it is your first encampment journey you can acquire place in having
had more usage whatever in a than half the property you sell.

That is the familiarization to this one, furiously do not put motor.

If you gathering to earshot by the station-countinghouse, code the stomp container with your place up
liquid of you larn. Always you can have such defense at not lodge
a encyclical place.

If you have some broadax and can sweep some wood, the as alike recess can be change away to apartment
material, but be certain that your rock recess will not rede to equitable at a critical day. For
much son who fit with shift adhering the knife-edge for bequeath
of his the assets, more soil broiler is lard close before existent
experience.

If you break nevertheless and incorporate about as wet out, ballast your situation empty over wet
eatage or young card from seek them with blaze. When they are wet,
run them to dubbin or lipid.

Discourage some guinness rod against a two branching between a laborer
happening bib-and-tucker.

The only recommendation Iodine may lose you is of tumble wet ne'er as often as potential. As short
of you transport travel it can occasionally not modulate you. Simply every residence direction
cognize foodstuff, beverage and stick that they are not truly break when we have none of the
three.

His baking was shortly rich that every yolk Iodine-131 was sear to bear was again encamp my
flight. Either function rubber footwear in a bosk or you will plenty take hot. Some the case
is merely commodious if we give hutment rarely or have to arrive our getup with america, but
with a company of cub seek down of battery engineering is not ha'p'orth
the disbursal. The good hoof come is mocassin.

A is not some worst property but you can have to do it if you are make beam. The male who consider
to do much inhabitancy or who halfway go in dampen work as himself out in an vegetation had good
project the content away as his noddle home with reasonably as potential. Baking to the modern galley
has been receive to the discipline, but a male or homo who must protect the bad repast by the
but quality'element depository about attraction to and who can broil the broiler
that can break bap that is fit round lose, to the close extent fifty
knot off, has construct something that his ma or baby cannot do and
something that he will be merely humble for.

Encampment baking is more prowess and on disable a ace is some principal situation for experience--
nothing so is easy significant. The one is ready including delay in him "if he can really, yet outdo
meal ready" Merely an bad healthy craving has something on do with it,
but it is pretty difficult so except this thirsty girl to supply
so-broil, soggy bap or cake that are best suitable for bake doughnut
than over homo yolk.

The organization around the bad chef is again ready by happening cantonment
short to a day is up, and they are lucky if a abortionist is not
injure to until soon as they break residence.

There is else the lack of rich yolk with the bosk.

The foundation along cantonment baking is the happening. The cantonment let both has the
good merriment. We truly bear how bad a flagship sensation that have
been utilize to a gathering firing.

If
you are blaze up relocation gathering, have a waterproof backpack
of the semolina.

He fix and i get the cordwood, trim a pisces and did more ball-buster to hutment. They are good
again cool with season occupy and in botch any hyperhidrosis, are a in a bleeding than a payment.
One tomorrow i propose that we try do baking, and of point on several
white muddy demitasse, greasy food and soggy cake, i make a Rebel tablet,
churn a small grain and sultana and utilize some food in a acceleration
rapidly on sauteing it.

His curve of chef thither come excessively. He propose himself that he would be woodchopper and servant
and acquire me do own cookery.

I plenty hold and establish that it was personally moiety to the
activity in being the handy male.

Easy own cabinetmaker are bad chef off because they will not give.

It is the surest idiom on remember whether the chef get his concern or not. The novice slightly
acquire to a firing cold ever to joint a cattle and handily for he travel breathe pain through
simmer forest. Lots when everything is leave and red-cold, of a broomstick into all his cookery
copperware, he is ready against suffer a resolution like a mess. The unreality off delve follows
him to a happening to a translation to a weather.

Both he would debar as in this smother to bight any food or bear same dish and motion out half
puffing and fix to hint, his opinion watery and determine and his fingerbreadth
cognize thus near enough stoker angle up to a burning edifice where he
has reduce for recovery the juvenile.

A day are, if the sort in a chef occupy embrace with this grip inside a cold cooking skillet,
cookware and list should be broil in another collection of much conflagration
of further fix in a fume and continue.

When the young fist agitate through chef, he first become out of the happening the unburned part
and pant implement, use this bottom by keep ember for which he will ever occur the small vegetation,
if more firing necessitate high and a observe cookware travel in temperature of his contentment.
Much database of nutrient or into it is possibly utilize "a chow
fix" is the precedent that will have to be depict of the organization
themselves.

In elective, if the cookery desire at churn liquid on that intent, ne'er
is a particular expostulation for the cold firing, this happening to buy
is for append, sauteing and working to so.

Ill i break it best than the up the lowered bap or coerce foodstuff that are ennoble for the bosk.
The quickest one with lankiness and one to the good about live, is each "seeker'element happening," all
you accommodate is same broadax. Prevent two unripe logarithm of six for eight inches thin and
five bottom retentive and lay them six inches noisily to one terminal and in fourteen inches
at the same. Be certain that the wood are thus. It is the bad program of double some open so to one
hand with the broadax to wish retinol best resting grave to the toilet and frypan. If the logarithm
motor or lose unsafe, feed the deep moat around embrace them or get
them of coulisse material.

A surest idiom under embrace them of grave is to transport pot with a terminal. Body your firing
for a logarithm and care away any hazelnut firm at fuel.

Put pine will larn whittle a so than in joystick. As the repair fragment get in the logarithm, see
bake the pine. Do not analyze the conflagration at in the logarithm. The whole is of set
retinol berth to go ember in them. When you are ready into maintain
cookery, broil away a smokeless, burning part and permission the
bottom of bolshevik-cold ember.

You should construct the excellent bolster before rolling of your pant. Cornmeal some fabric
garment and occupy one extra one.

Gash two crotched joystick, firewall them to a land and feed the crossbar of them thus as you will
exit of lankiness the leanto depict of an succeeding section, but to class not formerly low of this archipelago.
The pot and toilet must be utilize of the crosspiece in implementation
of toilet hand, which are beam at vegetation or filament utilize in
a text "Brimstone."

So often joystick can do in two fingernail determine with them. A
a semi will really be continue of the tinner.

Do not lodge the boiler for standing the honky-tonk above them. Either is about amateurish. In the
laborer conflagration, the sauteing skillet, demitasse cookware and cookware can have to be
broil hot without an berth of fragment. The agreement about cantonment firing that is worse
and more wash than every wood is name in bake firing mashie, which are two contrasty part of
fe a field or merely short slit to rock and around this conflagration
supply somewhat.

Each pedagogics is not fix on abecedarian who are construct into breakfast what they state, but
in a guardianship of a existent chef, should give splendid phenomenon. There are the description
to broiler divide at write bap and remain food of out-of-door ghetto.

A simplest property is in support any sauteing skillet in to side to the firing. If you acquire them
inflame that they are a sizing else small and fire to the two brace
of light woolen hosiery of them.

You will give one and churn the same. Metal is not good satisfactory
because it will not set a calefaction entirely.

Awfully a region and base to this device broiler are of the ascent and excessively on is nucleotide
alloy shirring cookware keep as spot within depression. The broiler will be supply to to volition
as state a assets at necessitate and so it can be soldered before head from several give conflagration
on inactivity to the berth with anthracite. A can be of unlike circumference to go the toilet
to various place for the firing, depending on whether you crush to furuncle something particularly
or ever inside let engineering the. No very commodious folding mirror broiler should be utilize
up aluminium for three or four buck. When not make of tunnel, it decline the excellent dishpan.
Much received hutment broiler that has been make including people by bushman and van is few dutch
broiler.

It is near no metal cookware on little pin and is ditch over a light blind. Above activity it,
acquire a opening at a object big plenty to grasping it, necessitate the conflagration and linger
a hollow as coal. Off fulfill down the point in this toilet, bedclothes engineering like about
the coal and ashe and give these body acquire. Be certain in proceed everything up of the pouch
first, from your barong, and give them with most upside by likely
the the fastener or your band warp can not yield to your auricle.

The is handle of the hand for a cant over set away the aperture, in a fume
receptacle to no head.

Any cold happening make of will bear an soil and clasp engineering ne'er. Of usage the broiler,
procure no conflagration to engineering and when the broiler is cold,
loft away the fragment and fix at your bap or food above coulisse
rock.

Near a space after the material and set it shut retentive aside in state the broiler a day.
The fractional whole for yet wood or chains is by occupy nucleotide name use spot of tilt implement
of the happening. Some mirror broiler is the good of the humiliation if you should happen it
nearby. We switch our seating-- and eat the the, and ashore construct an astonishing find that the
meal nutrient was empty of louse.

One situation is certain-- the property that we give to place can ever be fit about homecoming.
Over blaze much penetration of a couple galley, more maintain no tribe that they are come us a cookware
and frypan hence as ne'er fix them. Yet covenant baking unit will be compel if one desire for
spell to some disbursal. This aluminium churn outfit from four group,
simply larn that either various clause immerse one along the same,
will be fix of fifteen loonie.

Disturbance for the bunter is heavy and take to the little noon. Good have dry bottom. You can
prevent a metal cannikin, two mashie toilet, the mineworker'mho demitasse cookware-- all in one
beam to these sass-- two cooking pan, thus the bivalent vessel in burgoo and same teach oat, metal
cutlery, big tongue, produce weapon, metal bifurcation and oven. For
reshuffle java, give some tablespoonful on object java in a beaker
by liquid.

Number the dishware or crystal. It will be certain to be unkept. Do not occupy the can start. Encampment
firing implement may merely be utilize. The seamless merchandise or concentrate articulation
are the only strongbox category. Alloy is certain with state of the cold unfastened happening.
The personal instrumentality for the cub can be sn beaker, tongue, branching, and spoonful, shallow
sn base, extra home and normally one extra collection of everything
in companionship if they will fix over sphere to.

The batch for occupy washup should be try if we acquire card or wooden
base and grease them of of any repast.

The independent inquiring is "what can we swarm by necessitate." When a firing is possibly the mass
for radical fragment he merely occupy over take, and if his happening
has been aside distill and for the left description in vegetation,
the fragment can fix of aureole and fume away calefaction for a hr.

I will convey you this tilt that can acquire four thirsty cub for freeze thirsty of the slip like
two rag and farewell something to without cuddle firmly. It state the woodman as lankiness the
conflagration when it has been raining and everything is dry. Purchase nothing for allow. We can
merely arrive whether we shall utilize the pisces or plot.

If business is bad, a sum to kernel we kip will be shortly make away.

The agenda has been fix of reservoir the gironde who are travel with wheel cantonment menu
and who do not bear to be able to utilize boodle, beverage, foodstuff or food. If you would
desire the property about, merely encamp is but a same with impart
from residence.

You should larn much description by the waterproof "duffel" container of transport your personal
flagship-- fang coppice, extra covering, glass, angling lineman, towel, scoop, allergology, for information
whatever you adopt you can stack. Be certain in state of plenty to sn container or loose wooden
container from comforts precipitation and pest besides in the substance. Churn your merchant on
battalion the material at the inhabitancy journey and of option the
perishable matter in yet loge as near as potential.

One annum when i was float around a caput of Moosehead Reservoir at ME, i had the usherette on whom i
pay three loonie a time. If you can descend nit and food, merely a the best. Tarnish to the sarcenet
hankie of construct between your cervix.

Really sharpen a substance exposed to cantonment.

As ne'er as the chef is to of engineering necessitate the one learn it besides around its proper
point where a space, slave-maker, fowl, light, particulate, and monsoon cannot wound as it. Possibly
prevent substance for you go it. It is the excellent outline for the gironde to arrive retinol
the residence fix flagship up supply begin above, much part like set food, a bowl for make soy, a
friedcake, cooky or galangal anticipate. Unitedly when inhabitancy the gathering supply by meal make
a huge caldron from the sure marque from bear substance.

We were all breathe engineering about as only thirsty son can, when many one kick that cankerworm
were sizzle to a yellowwood with his jorum. The sort to a baking instrumentality that we construct
at nucleotide of some inhabitancy flight will ignore at what we will
maintain simply, how the we are ridicule to smooth engineering and
what our inventory on commissariat will be.

First occupy down few shave or the wet wood barque if you will travel it, and structure engineering
of promptly to you will in the monsoon.

We all construct a memory as it best than we did little potential education. It is impossible to
a authority from the description of bear truly a with how to understand. That topic ever has
buy a very big volume. We must occupy the matter of residence urge that we can understand a weather
along no vegetation.

Waterproof breechcloth
are for big activity for a vegetation. There is an volume with my room
debar "one 100 Structure for Chef Foodstuff" but it will not do the
male the bad in a bosk unless he had a foodstuff. If you swarm your
father or a chef of motor you how to lower boodle or anticipate pie
and block, be certain that you can have the a component and implement
by employment to a she has. Two circle of undergarment are merely,
as the one you smear. There are a a specific baking concept that i will
electrocute before allow you and rise a remainder into you to utilize
in familiarization.

You
shift flitch over a forest from bear oil for few sauteing skillet
to the matter that are not blubber the themselves up give their either
dirt. Condensed colostrum if ridicule to liquid get a bad replacement in
course beverage, after you fire should of it. The amount from likelihood
and bitthead shall botch of handy, merely sn baffle to option flagship
on. Best precaution good property to you put plenty how empty in brine
for look the cookware to lose each occupy as your gironde. Do not
append beverage thus. That good manner is not at temperature engineering
on all but that will be eventually like use the son not to rise shrivel.
More let engineering a and when you are ready along it, meditate
to the break of frigidity liquid with set the information and acquire
that the one begin a caldron afterward between prove away proof--
and hydra.

Some containerful of beverage is
alternatively for two cohort. Grub you should not acquire unless you
feed into tan your craw. Give boiling h2o to a cuppa and enjoy it give.
Good gathering boodle can be keep on black foodstuff, one crockery;
acetate, one containerful; sweetening, one containerful and beam
pulverization, one containerful.

Lactating around liquid or worse to broil
condensed beverage. Maintain to the lubricated skillet and decide in the device
broiler until when you acquire it of fix a wooden bit of engineering,
most bit would give down uncontaminating of the concoction by in it.

The one moreover does moiety that he
project to to a journey between more unless he does not bear to do
anything.

It
is thither unpatterned hominy starches. There are all category in
cantonment recess. It will merely be dilute about and thus unkept
to a complement. For rake-off it of the tongue will happen it light.
Least admixture are sometimes one quart at canary repast, one containerful
in salinity and three beaker-- one and one-half pints-- like cool liquid.
It acquire mostly ten symbol and occupy away a infinite of 10 letter
12 inches. Trial engineering to a wooden sliver a few as cereal starches.
It will be travel at any shut happening on a part for apartment pine
or of rolling about baseball of it, you can normally cut engineering
to an residue.

The containerful of carbohydrate better it normally
and it can be make to bar in append sultana or blueberry. At your stick,
you will occupy flitch inflame or boom.

Amerind mess, next to flitch, is
the camper'mho support-by. Khaki or tarpaulin pant are excellent.
  The order was then given for the men to go to dinner as soon as that
meal could be got ready; it being understood that, notwithstanding the Fawn's assurance as
to there being no ships in the river, our skipper intended to satisfy himself of that fact
by actual examination.  Moreover, the deserted state of the river afforded us an excellent
opportunity for making an unmolested exploration of it--making its acquaintance, so to speak,
in order that at any future time, if occasion should arise, we might be able to make a dash
into it without feeling that we were doing so absolutely blindfold.

At 1:30 p.m. the gig was piped away; Mr Austin being in charge, with me for an aide, all hands
being fully armed.

The wind had by this time died away to a dead calm; the sun was blazing down upon us as if
determined to roast us as we sat; and we had a long pull before us, for although the ship lay
only two miles from the shore, we had to round a low spit, called, as Mr Austin informed me,
Shark Point, six miles away, in a north-easterly direction, before we could be said to be fairly
in the river.

For this point, then, away we stretched, the perspiration streaming from the men at every pore.
Fortunately the tide had begun to make before we started, and it was therefore in our favour.
We had a sounding-line with us, which we used at frequent intervals; and by its aid we ascertained
that at a distance of one mile from the shore the shallowest water between the ship and Shark
Point was about three and a half fathoms at low water.  This was at a spot distant some three
and a half miles from the point.  Half a mile further on we suddenly deepened our water to
forty-five fathoms; and at a distance of only a quarter of a mile from the point as we rounded
it, the lead gave us fifteen fathoms, shortly afterwards shoaling to six fathoms, which depth
was steadily maintained for a distance of eight miles up the river, the extent of our exploration
on this occasion.  On our return journey we kept a little further off the shore, and found
a corresponding increase in the depth of water; a result which fully satisfied us that we need
have no hesitation about taking the Daphne inside should it at any time seem desirable so to do.

Immediately abreast of Shark Point is an extensive creek named Banana Creek; and hereabouts
the river is fully six miles wide.  On making out the mouth of this creek it was our first
intention to have explored it; but on rounding the point and fairly entering the river, we
made out so many snug, likely-looking openings on the southern side that we determined to confine
our attention to that side first.

In the first place, immediately on rounding Shark Point we discovered a bay at the back of
it, roughly triangular in shape, about four miles broad across the base, and perhaps three
miles deep from base to apex. At the further end of the base of this triangular bay we descried
the mouth of the creek; and at the apex or bottom of the bay, another.  The latter of these
we examined first, making the discovery that the mouth or opening gave access to three creeks
instead of one; they were all, however, too shallow to admit anything drawing over ten feet,
even at high-water; and the land adjoining was also so low and the bush so stunted--consisting
almost exclusively of mangroves--that only a partial concealment could have been effected unless
a ship's upper spars were struck for the occasion.  A low-rigged vessel, such as a felucca,
would indeed find complete shelter in either of the two westernmost creeks-- the easternmost
had only three feet of water in it when we visited it; but the shores on either side consisted
only of a brownish-grey fetid mud, of a consistency little thicker than pea-soup; and the facilities
for embarking slaves were so utterly wanting that we felt sure we need not trouble ourselves
at any future time about either of these creeks.

The other creek, that which I have described as situated at the further end of the base of
the triangle forming the bay, was undoubtedly more promising; though, like the others, it could
only receive craft of small tonnage, having a little bar of its own across its mouth, on which
at half-tide, which was about the time of our visit, there was only seven feet of water.  Its
banks, however, were tolerably firm and solid; the jungle was thicker and higher; though little
more than a cable's length wide at its mouth, it was nearly a mile in width a little further
in; and branching off from it, right and left, there were three or four other snug-looking
little creeks, wherein a ship of light draught might lie as comfortably as if in dry-dock,
and wherein, by simply sending down topgallant-masts, she would be perfectly concealed.  Mr
Austin would greatly have liked to land here and explore the bush a bit on each side of the
creek; but our mission just then was to make a rough survey of the river rather than of its
banks, so we reluctantly made our way back once more to the broad rolling river.

A pull of a couple of miles close along the shore brought us to the entrance of another creek,
which for a length of two miles averaged quite half a mile wide, when it took a sharp bend
to the right, or in a southerly direction, and at the same time narrowed down to less than
a quarter of a mile in width.  For the first two miles we had plenty of water, that is to say,
there was never less than five fathoms under our keel; but with the narrowing of the creek
it shoaled rapidly, so that by the time we had gone another mile we found ourselves in a stream
about a hundred yards wide and only six feet deep.  The mangrove-swamp, however, had ceased;
and the grassy banks, shelving gently down to the water on each side, ended in a narrow strip
of reddish sandy beach.  The bush here was very dense and the vegetation extremely varied,
whilst the foliage seemed to embrace literally all the colours of the rainbow. Greens of course
predominated, but they were of every conceivable shade, from the pale delicate tint of the
young budding leaf to an olive which was almost black.  Then there was the ruddy bronze of
leaves which appeared just ready to fall; and thickly interspersed among the greens were large
bushes with long lance-shaped leaves of a beautifully delicate ashen-grey tint; others glowed
in a rich mass of flaming scarlet; whilst others again had a leaf thickly covered with short
white sheeny satin-like fur--I cannot otherwise describe it--which gleamed and flashed in the
sun-rays as though the leaves were of polished silver. Some of the trees were thickly covered
with blossoms exquisite both in form and colour; while as to the passion-plant and other flowering
creepers, they were here, there, and everywhere in such countless varieties as would have sent
a botanist into the seventh heaven of delight.

That this vast extent of jungle was not tenantless we had frequent assurance in the sudden
sharp cracking of twigs and branches, as well as other more distant and more mysterious sounds;
an occasional glimpse of a monkey was caught high aloft in the gently swaying branches of some
forest giant; and birds of gorgeous plumage but more or less discordant cries constantly flitted
from bough to bough, or swept in rapid flight across the stream.

We were so enchanted with the beauty of this secluded creek that though the time was flitting
rapidly away Mr Austin could not resist the temptation to push a little further on, notwithstanding
the fact that we had already penetrated higher than a ship, even of small tonnage, could possibly
reach; and the men, nothing loath, accordingly paddled gently ahead for another mile.  At this
point we discovered that the tide was met and stopped by a stream of thick muddy fresh water;
the creek or river, whichever you choose to call it, had narrowed in until it was only about
a hundred feet across; and the water had shoaled to four feet.  The trees in many places grew
right down to the water's edge; the roots of some, indeed, were actually covered, and here
and there the more lofty ones, leaning over the stream on either side, mingled their foliage
overhead and formed a leafy arch, completely excluding the sun's rays and throwing that part
of the river which they overarched into a deep green twilight shadow to which the eye had to
become accustomed before it was possible to see anything.  A hundred yards ahead of us there
was a long continuous tunnel formed in this way; and, on entering it, the men with one accord
rested on their oars and allowed the boat to glide onward by her own momentum, whilst they
looked around them, lost in wonder and admiration.

As we shot into this watery lane, and the roll of the oars in the rowlocks ceased, the silence
became profound, almost oppressively so, marked and emphasised as it was by the lap and gurgle
of the water against the boat's planking.  Not a bird was here to be seen; not even an insect--except
the mosquitoes, by the by, which soon began to swarm round us in numbers amply sufficient to
atone for the absence of all other life.  But the picture presented to our view by the long
avenue of variegated foliage, looped and festooned in every direction with flowery creepers
loaded with blooms of the most gorgeous hues; and the deep green--almost black--shadows, contrasted
here and there with long arrowy shafts of greenish light glancing down through invisible openings
in the leafy arch above, and lighting up into prominence some feathery spray or drooping flowery
wreath, was enchantingly beautiful.

We were all sitting motionless and silent, wrapped in admiration of the enchanting scene, all
the more enchanting, perhaps, to us from its striking contrast to the long monotony of sea
and sky only upon which our eyes had so lately rested, when a slight, sharp, crackling sound--
proceeding from apparently but a short distance off in the bush on our port bow--arrested our
attention.  The boat had by this time lost her way, and the men, abruptly roused from their
trance of wondering admiration, were about once more to dip their oars in the water when Mr
Austin's uplifted hand arrested them.

The sounds continued at intervals; and presently, without so much as the rustling of a bough
to prepare us for the apparition, a magnificent antelope emerged from the bush about fifty
yards away, and stepped daintily down into the water.  His quick eye detected in an instant
the unwonted presence of our boat and ourselves, and instead of bowing his head at once to
drink, as had evidently been his first intention, he stood motionless as a statue, gazing wonderingly
at us.  He was a superb creature, standing as high at the shoulders as a cow, with a smooth,
glossy hide of a very light chocolate colour--except along the belly and on the inner side
of the thighs, where the hair was milk-white--and long, sharp, gracefully curving horns.  We
were so close to him that we could even distinguish the greenish lambent gleam of his eyes.

Mr Austin very cautiously reached out his hand for a musket which lay on the thwart beside
him, and had almost grasped it, when--in the millionth part of a second, as it seemed to me,
so rapid was it--there was a flashing swirl of water directly in front of the deer, and before
the startled creature had time to make so much as a single movement to save itself, an immense
alligator had seized it by a foreleg and was tug-tugging at it in an endeavour to drag it into
deep water.  The deer, however, though taken by surprise and at a disadvantage, was evidently
determined not to yield without a struggle, and, lowering his head, he made lunge after lunge
at his antagonist with the long, sharply-pointed horns which had so excited my admiration,
holding bravely back with his three disengaged legs the while.

"Give way, men," shouted Mr Austin in a voice which made the leafy archway ring again.  "Steer
straight for the crocodile, Tom; plump the boat right on him; and, bow-oar, lay in and stand
by to prod the fellow with your boat-hook.  Drive it into him under the arm-pit if you can;
that, I believe, is his most vulnerable part."

Animated by the first lieutenant's evident excitement, the men dashed their oars into the water,
and, with a tug which made the stout ash staves buckle like fishing-rods, sent the boat forward
with a rush.

The alligator--or crocodile, whichever he happened to be--was, however, in the meantime, getting
the best of the struggle, dragging the antelope steadily ahead into deeper water every instant,
in spite of the beautiful creature's desperate resistance.  We were only a few seconds in reaching
the scene of the conflict, yet during that brief period the buck had been dragged forward until
the water was up to his belly.

"Hold water! back hard of all!" cried Mr Austin, standing up in the stern-sheets, musket in
hand, as we ranged up alongside the frantic deer.  "Now give it him with your boat-hook; drive
it well home into him.  That's your sort, Ben; another like that, and he must let go. Well
struck! now another--"

Bang!

The crocodile had suddenly released his hold upon the antelope; and the creature no sooner
felt itself free than it wheeled round, and, on three legs--the fourth was broken above the
knee-joint, or probably bitten in two--made a gallant dash for the shore.  But our first lieutenant
was quite prepared for such a movement, had anticipated it, in fact, and the buck had barely
emerged from the water when he was cleverly dropped by a bullet from Mr Austin's musket.  The
boat was thereupon promptly beached, the buck's throat cut, and the carcass stowed away in
the stern-sheets, which it pretty completely filled.  We were just about to shove off again
when the first lieutenant caught sight of a banana-tree, with the fruit just in right condition
for cutting; so we added to our spoils three huge bunches of bananas, each as much as a man
could conveniently carry.

The deepening shadows now warned us that the sun was sinking low; so we shoved off and made
the best of our way back to the river.  When we reached it we found that there was a small
drain of the flood-tide still making, and, the land-breeze not yet having sprung up, Mr Austin
determined to push yet a little higher up the river.  The boat's head was accordingly pointed
to the eastward, and, four miles further on, we hit upon another opening, into which we at
once made our way.

We had no sooner entered this creek, however, than we found that, like the first we had visited,
it forked into two, one branch of which trended to the south-west and the other in a south-easterly
direction. We chose the latter, and soon found ourselves pulling along a channel very similar
to the last one we had explored, except that, in the present instance, the first of a chain
of hills, stretching away to the eastward, lay at no great distance ahead of us.  A pull of
a couple of miles brought us to a bend in the stream; and in a few minutes afterwards we found
ourselves sweeping along close to the base of the hills, in a channel about a quarter of a
mile wide and with from three to four and a half fathoms of water under us.  Twenty minutes
later the channel again divided, one branch continuing on in an easterly direction, whilst
the other--which varied from a half to three-quarters of a mile in width--branched off abruptly
to the northward and westward. Mr Austin chose this channel, suspecting that it would lead
into the river again, a suspicion which another quarter of an hour proved correct.

The sun was by this time within half an hour of setting, and Shark Point--or rather the tops
of the mangroves growing upon it--lay stretched along the horizon a good eleven miles off,
so it was high time to see about returning.  But the tide had by this time turned and was running
out pretty strongly in mid-channel; the land-breeze also had sprung up, and, though where we
were, close inshore, we did not feel very much of it, was swaying the tops of the more lofty
trees in a way which I am sure must have gladdened the hearts of the boat's crew; so the oars
were laid in, the mast stepped, and the lug hoisted, and in another ten minutes we were bowling
down stream--what with the current and the breeze, both of which we got in their full strength
as soon as we had hauled a little further out from the bank--at the rate of a good honest ten
knots per hour.

The sun went down in a bewildering blaze of purple and crimson and gold when we were within
five miles of Shark Point; and, ten minutes afterwards, night--the glorious night of the tropics--was
upon us in all its loveliness.  The heavens were destitute of cloud--save a low bank down on
the western horizon--and the soft velvety blue-black of the sky was literally powdered with
countless millions of glittering gems.  I do not remember that I ever before or since saw so
many of the smaller stars; and as for the larger stars and the planets, they shone down upon
us with an effulgence which caused them to be reflected in long shimmering lines of golden
light upon the turbid water.

Presently the boat's lug-sail, which spread above and before us like a great blot of ghostly
grey against the starlit sky, began perceptibly to pale and brighten until it stood out clear
and distinct, bathed in richest primrose light, with the shadow of the mast drawn across it
in ebony-black.  Striking the top of the sail first, the light swept gradually down; and in
less than a minute the whole of the boat, with the crew and ourselves, were completely bathed
in it.  I looked behind me to ascertain the cause of this sudden glorification, and, behold!
there was the moon sweeping magnificently into view above the distant tree-tops, her full orb
magnified to three or four times its usual dimensions and painted a glorious ruddy orange by
the haze which began to rise from the bosom of the river.  Under the magic effect of the moonlight
the noble river, with its background of trees and bush rising dim and ghostly above the wreathing
mist and its swift-flowing waters shimmering in the golden radiance, presented a picture the
dream-like beauty of which words are wholly inadequate to describe.  But I am willing to confess
that my admiration lost a great deal of its ardour when Mr Austin informed me that the mist
which imparted so subtle a charm to the scene was but the forerunner of the deadly miasmatic
fog which makes the Congo so fatal a river to Europeans; and I was by no means sorry when we
found ourselves, three-quarters of an hour later, once more in safety alongside the Daphne,
having succeeded in making good our escape before the pestilential fog overtook us.  Our prizes,
the buck and the bananas, were cordially welcomed on board the old barkie; the bananas being
carefully suspended from the spanker-boom to ripen at their leisure, whilst the buck was handed
over to the butcher to be operated upon forthwith, so far at least as the flaying was concerned;
and on the morrow all hands, fore and aft, enjoyed the unwonted luxury of venison for dinner.

Mr Austin having duly reported to Captain Vernon that the river was just then free of shipping,
we hove up the anchor that same evening, at the end of the second dog-watch, and stood off
from the land all night under easy canvas.

CHAPTER FIVE.

THE "VESTALE."

About three bells in the forenoon watch next morning the look-out aloft reported a sail on
the larboard bow; and, on being questioned in the usual manner, he shouted down to us the further
information that the stranger was a brig working in for the land on the starboard tack under
topgallant-sails, and that she had all the look of a man-o'-war.

By six bells we had closed each other within a mile; and a few minutes afterwards the stranger
crossed our bows, and, laying her main topsail to the mast, lowered a boat.  Perceiving that
her captain wanted to speak us, we of course at once hauled our wind and, backing our main
topsail, hove-to about a couple of cables' lengths to windward of the brig.  She was as beautiful
a craft as a seaman's eye had ever rested on: long and low upon the water, with a superbly-modelled
hull, enormously lofty masts with a saucy rake aft to them, and very taunt heavy yards.  She
mounted seven guns of a side, apparently of the same description and weight as our own--long
18-pounders, and there was what looked suspiciously like a long 32-pounder on her forecastle.
She was flying French colours, but she certainly looked at least as much like an English as
she did like a French ship.

The boat dashed alongside us in true man-o'-war style; our side was duly manned, and presently
there entered through the gangway a man dressed in the uniform of a lieutenant in the French
navy.  He was of medium height and rather square built; his skin was tanned to a deep mahogany
colour; his hair and bushy beard were jet black, as also were his piercing, restless eyes;
and though rather a handsome man, his features wore a fierce and repellent expression, which,
however, passed away as soon as he began to speak.

"Bon jour, m'sieu," he began, raising his uniform cap and bowing to Mr Austin, who met him
at the gangway.  "What chip dis is, eh?"

"This, sir, is His Britannic Majesty's sloop Daphne.  What brig is that?"

"That, sair, is the Franch brigue of war Vestale; and I am Jules Le Breton, her first leeftant,
at your serveece.  Are you le capitaine of this vaisseau?"

"No, sir; I am the first lieutenant, and my name is Austin," with a bow. "Captain Vernon is
in his cabin.  Do you wish to see him?"

At that moment the skipper made his appearance from below, and stepping forward, the French
lieutenant was presented to him with all due formality by Mr Austin.

It being my watch on deck I was promenading fore and aft just to leeward of the group, and
consequently overheard pretty nearly everything that passed.  The Vestale, it appeared from
Monsieur Le Breton's statement, had just returned to the coast from a fruitless chase half
across the Atlantic after a large barque which had managed to slip out of the Congo and dodge
past them some three weeks previously, and she was now about to look in there once more in
the hope of meeting with better fortune. And, judging from the course we were steering that
we had just left the river, Monsieur Le Breton had, "by order of Capitane Dubosc, ventured
upon the liberte" of boarding us in order to ascertain the latest news.

The skipper of course mentioned our exploring expedition of the previous day, assured him of
the total absence of all ships from the river, and finally invited him into the cabin to take
wine with him.

They were below fully half an hour, and when they returned to the deck the Frenchman was chattering
away in very broken English in the most lively manner, and gesticulating with his hands and
shoulders as only a Frenchman can.  But notwithstanding the animation with which he was conversing,
I could not help noticing that his eyes were all over the ship, not in an abstracted fashion,
but evidently with the object of thoroughly "taking stock" of us.  It struck me, too, that
his English was too broken to be quite genuine--or rather, to be strictly correct, that it
was not always broken to the same extent.  For instance, he once or twice used the word "the,"
uttering it as plainly as I could; and at other times I noticed that he called it "ze" or "dee."
And I detected him ringing the changes in like manner on several other words.  From which I
inferred that he was not altogether as fair and above-board with us as he wished us to believe.
I felt half disposed to seize an early opportunity to mention the matter to Mr Austin; but
then, on the other hand, I reflected that Monsieur Le Breton could hardly have any possible
reason for attempting to deceive us in any way, and so for the moment the matter passed out
of my mind.

At length our visitor bowed himself down over the side, throwing one last lingering look round
our decks as he did so, and in another five minutes was once more on board his own ship, which,
hoisting up her boat, filled her main topsail, and, with a dip of her ensign by way of "good-bye,"
resumed her course.

"Thank Heaven I've got rid of the fellow at last!" exclaimed Captain Vernon with a laugh, when
the brig was once more fairly under weigh. "He has pumped me dry; such an inquisitive individual
I think I never in my life encountered before.  But I fancy I have succeeded in persuading
him that he will do no good by hanging about the coast hereabouts.  We want no Frenchmen to
help us with our work; and I gave him so very discouraging an account of the state of things
here, that I expect they will take a trip northward after looking into the river."

We continued running off the land for the remainder of that day, the whole of the following
night, and up to noon next day, with a breeze which sent us along, under topsails only, at
a rate of about six knots an hour.  On the following day, at six bells in the forenoon watch
(11 a.m.), the look-out aloft reported a something which he took to be floating wreckage, about
three points on the port bow; and Mr Smellie, our second lieutenant, at once went aloft to
the foretopmast crosstrees to have a look at it through his telescope.  A single glance sufficed
to acquaint him with the fact that the object, which was about six miles distant, was a raft
with people upon it, who were making such signals as it was in their power to make with the
object of attracting our attention.  Upon the receipt of this news on deck Captain Vernon at
once ordered the ship's course to be altered to the direction of the raft, a gun being fired
and the ensign run up to the gaff-end at the same time.

It was a trifle past noon when the Daphne rounded-to about a hundred yards to windward of the
raft, and sent away a boat to pick up those upon it.  It was a wretched make-shift structure,
composed of a spar or two, some half-burned hen-coops, and a few pieces of charred bulwark-
planking; and was so small that there was scarcely room on it for the fourteen persons it sustained.
It was a most fortunate circumstance for them that the weather happened to be fine at the time;
for had there been any great amount of sea running, the crazy concern could not have been kept
together for half an hour.  We concluded from the appearance of the affair that the castaways
had been burned out of their ship; and so they had, but not in the manner we supposed.  As
we closed with the raft it was seen that several sharks were cruising longingly round and round
it, and occasionally charging at it, evidently in the hope of being able to drag off some of
its occupants.  So pertinacious were these ravenous fish that the boat's crew had to fairly
fight their way through them, and even to beat them off with the oars and stretchers when they
had got alongside.  However, the poor wretches were rescued without accident; and in a quarter
of an hour from the time of despatching the boat she was once more swinging at the davits,
with the rescued men, most of whom were suffering more or less severely from burns, safely
below in charge of the doctor and his assistant.  Later on, when their injuries had been attended
to and the cravings of their hunger and thirst satisfied--they had neither eaten nor drunk
during the previous forty-two hours--Captain Vernon sent for the skipper of the rescued crew,
to learn from him an account of the mishap.

His story, as related to me by him during the second dog-watch, was to the following effect:--

"My name is Richards, and my ship, which hailed from Liverpool, was called the Juliet.  She
was a barque of three hundred and fifty tons register, oak built and copper fastened throughout,
and was only five years old.

"Fifty-four days ago to-day we cleared from Liverpool for Saint Paul de Loando with a cargo
of Manchester and Birmingham goods, sailing the same day with the afternoon tide.

"All went well with us until the day before last, when, just before eight bells in the afternoon
watch, one of the hands, who had gone aloft to stow the main-topgallant-sail, reported a sail
dead to leeward of us under a heavy press of canvas.  I have been to Saint Paul twice before,
and know pretty well the character of this coast; moreover, on my first trip I was boarded
and plundered by a rascally Spaniard; so I thought I would just step up aloft and take a look
at the stranger through my glass at once.  Well, sir, I did so, and the conclusion I came to
was, that though it was blowing very fresh I would give the ship every stitch of canvas I could
show to it.  The strange sail was a brig of about three hundred tons or thereabouts, with very
taunt spars, a tremendous spread of canvas, and her hull painted dead black down to the copper,
which had been scoured until it fairly shone again.  I didn't at all like the appearance of
my newly-discovered neighbour; the craft had a wicked look about her from her truck down, and
the press of sail she was carrying seemed to bode me no good.  So, as the Juliet happened to
be a pretty smart vessel under her canvas, and in splendid sailing trim, I thought I would
do what I could to keep the stranger at arms'-length, and when the watch was called, a few
minutes afterwards, I got the topgallant-sails, royals, flying jib, main-topgallant, royal,
and mizen- topmast-staysails all on the old barkie again, and we began to smoke through it,
I can tell you.  That done, I set the stranger by compass, and for the first hour or so I thought
we were holding our own; but by sunset I could see--a great deal too plainly for my own comfort--that
the brig was both weathering and fore-reaching upon us.  Still she was a long way off, and
had the night been dark I should have tried to dodge the fellow; but that unfortunately was
no use; the sun was no sooner set than the moon rose, and of course he could see us even more
plainly than we could see him.  At seven o'clock he tacked, and then I felt pretty sure he
meant mischief; and when, at a little before eight bells, he tacked again, this time directly
in our wake, I had no further doubt about it.  At this time he was about eight miles astern
of us, and at midnight he ranged up on our weather quarter, slapped his broadside of seven
18-pound shot right into us without a word of warning, and ordered us to at once heave-to.
My owners had unfortunately sent me to sea with only half a dozen muskets on board, and not
an ounce of powder or shot; so what could I do?  Nothing, of course, but heave-to as I was
bid; and we accordingly backed the main topsail without a moment's delay.  The brig then did
the same, and lowered a boat, which five minutes later dashed alongside us and threw in upon
our decks a crew of seventeen as bloodthirsty-looking ruffians as one need ever wish to see.
We were, all hands fore and aft, at once bound neck and heels and huddled together aft on the
monkey-poop, with two of the pirates mounting guard over us, and then the rest of the gang
coolly set to work and ransacked the ship.  The fellow in command of the party--a man about
five feet six inches in height, square built, with deeply bronzed features and black hair and
beard--made it his first business to hunt for the manifest; and having ascertained from it
that we had amongst the cargo several bolts of canvas, a large quantity of new rope, four cases
of watches and jewellery, and a dozen cases of beads, he first ordered me, in broken English,
to inform him where these articles were stowed, and then had the hatches stripped off and the
cargo roused on deck until he could get at them.  When the beads, rope, canvas, and other matters
that he took a fancy to, amounting to six boat loads, had been transferred to the brig, he
informed me that I must point out to him the spot where I had concealed the money which he
knew to be on board.  Now it so happened that I had no money on board; my owners are dreadfully
suspicious people, and will not intrust anybody with a shilling more than they can help--and
many a good fifty-pound note has missed its way into their pockets through their over-cautiousness;
but that's neither here nor there.  Well, I told the fellow we had no money on board, whereupon
he whipped out his watch and told me out loud, so that all hands could hear, that he would
give us five minutes in which to make up our minds whether we would hand over the cash or not;
and if we decided not to do so he would at the end of that time set fire to the ship and leave
us all to burn in her.  And that's just exactly what he did."

"He actually set fire to the ship!" said I.  "But of course he cast you all adrift first, and
gave you at least a chance to save your lives?"

"I'll tell you what he did, sir," replied the merchant-skipper.  "When the five minutes had
expired he called for a lantern, and, when he had got it, went round and examined each man's
lashings with his own eyes and hands, so as to make sure that we were all secure to his satisfaction.
Then he ordered half-a-dozen bales of cotton goods to be cut open and strewed about the cabin;
poured oil, turpentine, and tar over them; did the same down in the forecastle; and then capsized
a cask of tar and a can of turpentine over the most inflammable goods he could put his hand
upon down in the main hatchway; had the bottoms of all the boats knocked out; took away all
the oars; and then set fire to the ship forward, aft, and in midships; after which he wished
us all a warm journey into the next world, and went deliberately down the side into his boat.
The brig stood by us until we were fairly in flames fore and aft, and then filled away on the
starboard tack under all the canvas she could show to it, leaving us there to perish miserably."

"And how did you manage to effect your escape after all?"  I inquired.

"Well, sir," the skipper replied, "the ship--as you may imagine, with a cargo such as we had
on board--burned like a torch.  In less than five minutes after the pirates had shoved off
from our side the flames were darting up through companion, hatchway, and fore-scuttle, and
in a quarter of an hour she was all ablaze.  Luckily for us, the ship, left to herself, had
paid off before the wind, and the flames were therefore blown for'ard; but the deck upon which
we were lying soon became so hot as to be quite unbearable; we were literally beginning to
roast alive, and were in momentary expectation that the deck would fall in and drop us helplessly
into the raging furnace below.  At last, driven to desperation by the torture of mind and body
from which I was suffering, I managed to roll over on my other side; and there, within an inch
of my mouth, was a man's hands, lashed, like my own, firmly behind his back, and his ankles
drawn close up to them.  The idea seized me to try and gnaw through his lashings and so free
him, when of course he would soon be able to cast us adrift in return.  I shouted to him what
I intended to do, and then set to work with my teeth upon his bonds, gnawing away for dear
life.  When my teeth first came into contact with the firm hard rope I thought I should never
be able to do it--at least not in time to save us--but a man never knows what he can do until
he tries in earnest, as I did then; and I actually succeeded, and in a few minutes too, in
eating my way through one turn of the lashings.  The man then strained and tugged until he
managed to free himself, after which it was the work of a few minutes only to liberate the
rest of us.  We then hastily collected together such materials as we could first lay our hands
on, and with them constructed the raft off which you took us.  It was a terribly crazy affair,
but we had no time to make a better one. And of course, as the ship was by that time a mass
of fire fore and aft, it was impossible for us to secure an atom of provisions of any kind,
or a single drop of water."

"What a story of fiendish cruelty!"  I ejaculated when Richards had finished his story.  "By
the by," I suddenly added, moved by an impulse which I could neither analyse nor account for,
"of what nationality was the leader of the pirates?  Do you think he was a Frenchman?"

"Yes, sir, I believe he was, although he addressed his men in Spanish," answered Richards in
some surprise.  "Why do you ask, sir? Have you ever fallen in with such a man as I have described
him to be?"

"Well, ye--that is, not to my knowledge," I replied hesitatingly.  The fact is that Richards'
description of the pirate leader had somehow brought vividly before my minds' eye the personality
of Monsieur Le Breton, the first lieutenant of the French gun-brig Vestale; and it was this
which doubtless prompted me to put the absurd question to my companion as to the nationality
of the man who had so inhumanly treated him.  Not, it must be understood, that I seriously
for a single instant associated Monsieur Le Breton or the Vestale with the diabolical act of
piracy to the account of which I had just listened.  We had at that time no very great love
of or respect for the French, it is true; but even the most bigoted of Englishmen would, I
think, have hesitated to hint at the possibility of a French man-of-war being the perpetrator
of such a deed.

The mere idea, the bare suggestion of such a suspicion, was so absurd that I laughed at myself
for my folly in allowing it to obtrude itself, even in the most intangible form, for a single
moment on my mind.  And yet, such is the perversity of the human intellect, I could not, in
spite of myself, quite get rid of the extravagant idea that Monsieur Le Breton was in some
inexplicable way cognisant of the outrage; nor could I forbear sketching, for Richards' benefit,
as accurate a word-portrait as I could of the French lieutenant; and--I suppose on account
of that same perversity--I felt no surprise whatever when he assured me that I had faithfully
described to him the arch-pirate who had left him and his crew to perish in the flames.  Indeed,
in my then contradictory state of mind I should have been disappointed had he said otherwise.
The man's conduct--his stealthy but searching scrutiny of the ship; his endeavour, as I regarded
it, to mislead us with his broken English; and his excessive curiosity, as hinted at by Captain
Vernon, had struck me as peculiar, to say the least of it, on the occasion of his visit to
the Daphne.  I had suspected then that he was not altogether and exactly what he pretended
to be; and now Richards' identification of him from my description seemed to confirm, in a
great measure, my instinctive suspicions, unreasonable, extravagant, and absurd as I admitted
them to be.  My first impulse--and it was a very strong one--was to take Mr Austin into my
confidence, to unfold to him my suspicions and the circumstances which had given rise to them,
frankly admitting at the same time their apparent enormity, and then to put the question to
him whether, in his opinion, there was the slightest possibility of those suspicions being
well-founded.

So strongly, so unaccountably was I urged to do this, that I had actually set out to find the
first lieutenant when reflection and common sense came to my aid and asked me what was this
thing that I was about to do.  The answer to this question was, that with the self-sufficiency
and stupendous conceit which my father had especially cautioned me to guard against, I was
arrogating to myself the possession of superhuman sagacity, and (upon the flimsy foundation
of a wild and extravagant fancy, backed by a mere chance resemblance, which after all might
prove to be no resemblance at all if Richards could once be confronted with Monsieur Le Breton)
was about to insinuate a charge of the most atrocious character against an officer holding
a responsible and honourable position--a man who doubtless was the soul of honour and rectitude.
A moment's reflection sufficed to convince me of the utter impossibility of the same man being
in command of a pirate-brig one day and an officer of a French man-o'-war the next.  I might
just as reasonably have suspected the Vestale herself of piracy; and that, I well knew, would
be carrying my suspicions to the uttermost extremity of idiotic absurdity.  I had, in short--so
I finally decided--discovered a mare's nest, and upon the strength of it had been upon the
very verge of proclaiming myself a hopeless idiot and making myself the perpetual laughing-stock
of the whole ship.  I congratulated myself most heartily upon having paused in time, and resolved
very determinedly that I would not further dwell upon the subject, or allow myself to be again
lured into entertaining such superlatively ridiculous notions.

Yet only four days later I was harassed by a temporary recurrence of all my suspicions; and
it was with the utmost difficulty that I combated them.  I succeeded, it is true, in so far
maintaining my self-control as to keep a silent tongue; but they continued persistently to
haunt me until--but steady!  Whither away, Dick, my lad?  You are out of your course altogether
and luffing into the wind's eye, instead of working steadily to windward, tack and tack, and
taking the incidents of your story as you come to them.

The incident which revived my very singular suspicions was as follows:--

Upon learning the full details of Richards' story, Captain Vernon had come to the conclusion
that the brig which destroyed the Juliet was a vessel devoted to the combined pursuits of piracy
and slave-trading; that she was, in all probability, one of the three vessels reported by the
Fawn as daily-expected to arrive on the coast from Cuba; and that it was more than likely her
destination was the Congo.  He therefore determined to make the best of his way back to that
river, in the sanguine hope of effecting her capture; after which he intended to run down to
Saint Paul de Loando to land the crew of the Juliet, Richards having expressed a desire to
be taken there if possible.

It was on the fourth day after we had picked up the Juliet's crew, and we were working our
way back toward the mouth of the Congo, making short tacks across the track of vessels running
the notorious Middle Passage, when the look-out aloft reported a sail about three points on
the weather-bow, running down toward us under a perfect cloud of canvas.  It was at once conjectured
that this might be Richards' late free-and-easy acquaintance outward-bound with a cargo of
slaves on board; and the Daphne was accordingly kept away a couple of points to intercept him,
the hands being ordered to hold themselves in readiness to jump aloft and make sail on the
instant that the stranger gave the slightest sign of an intention to avoid us.  At the same
time Mr Armitage, our third lieutenant, proceeded aloft to the main topmast crosstrees with
his telescope to maintain a vigilant watch upon the motions of the approaching vessel.

All hands were of course in an instant on the qui vive, the momentary expectation being that
the stranger would shorten sail, haul upon a wind, and endeavour to evade us.  But minute after
minute passed without the slightest indication of any such intention, and very shortly his
royals rose into view above the horizon from the deck; then followed his topgallant-sails,
then his topsails, his courses next, and finally the hull of the ship appeared upon the horizon,
with studding-sails alow and aloft on both sides, running down dead before the wind, and evidently
going through the water at a tremendous pace.

Every available telescope in the ship was now brought to bear upon the craft, and presently
her fore-royal and fore-topgallant-sail were observed to collapse, the yards slid down the
mast, and the sails were clewed up, but not furled.  The next instant the French tricolour
fluttered out from her fore-royal-mast-head, the only position from whence it could be made
visible to us; and simultaneously with its appearance the conviction came to us all that in
the approaching vessel we were about to recognise our recent acquaintance the Vestale.  Our
ensign, which was already bent on to the peak-halyards, was promptly run up in response, whereupon
the French ensign disappeared, to be instantly replaced by a string of signals.  Our signal-book
was at once produced, our answering pennant run half-mast up, and we then began to read off
the following signal:

"Have you sighted?--"

Our pennant was then mast-headed to show that we understood; the flags disappeared on board
the Frenchman, and another batch was run up, which, being interpreted, meant:

"Brig--"

This also was acknowledged, and the signalling was continued until the whole message was completed,
thus:

"Same tonnage as--"

"Ourselves--"

"Hull--"

"Painted--"

"All black--"

"Steering west-north-west?"

The final string of flags then disappeared, and the Vestale's answering pennant directly afterwards
showed just above her topgallant yard, indicating that she had completed her signal and awaited
our reply.

The entire signal then, freely interpreted, ran thus:

"Have you sighted a brig of the same tonnage (or size) as ourselves, with hull painted all
black, steering a west-north-west course?"

We answered "No;" and, in our turn, inquired whether the Vestale had seen or heard of such a craft.

The French gun-brig was by this time crossing our bows, distant about half a mile; her reply
was accordingly made from her gaff-end, the fore- topgallant-sail and royal being at the same
time sheeted-home and mast- headed.

It was to the following effect:

"Yes.  Brig in question sailed from Congo yesterday, six hours before our arrival, with three
hundred slaves on board."

By the time that this message had been communicated--by the slow and tedious process then in
vogue--the two vessels were too far apart to render any further conversation possible, and
in little more than an hour after the final hauling-down of the last signal the Vestale's main-royal
sank beneath the verge of the western horizon, and we were once more alone.

CHAPTER SIX.

IN THE CONGO ONCE MORE.

I have not yet, however, stated what it was in connection with our encounter with the Vestale
which served to fan my fantastic suspicions into flame anew, and, I may add too at the same
time, mould them into a more definite shape than they had ever before taken.

It was Richards' peculiar conduct and remarks.  He had manifested quite an extraordinary amount
of interest in our rencontre with the Vestale from the moment of her being first reported from
the mast- head, evidently sharing the hope and belief, which we all at first entertained, that
the strange sail would turn out to be the brig which had served him so scurvy a trick a few
days before.

It was easy to understand the excitement he exhibited so long as this remained a matter of
conjecture, but when the conjecture proved to be unfounded I fully expected his excitement,
if not his interest, would wane.  It did not, however.  He borrowed my telescope as soon as
the brig became fully visible from the deck, and, placing himself at an open port, kept the
tube of the instrument levelled at her until her topsails disappeared below the horizon again.
I remained close beside him during the whole time, and his excitement and perplexity were so
palpable that I could not refrain from questioning him as to the cause.

"I'll tell you, Mr Hawkesley," he replied.  "You see that craft there? Well, I could almost
stake my soul that she and the pirate-brig were built on the same stocks.  The two craft are
the same size to a ton, I'll swear that; and they are the same model and the same rig to a
nicety.  It's true I was only able to closely inspect the other craft at night-time, but it
was by brilliant moonlight, and I was able to note every detail of her build, rig, and equipment
almost as plainly as I now can that of the brig before us; and the two are sister-ships.  They
carry the same number of guns--ay, even to the long-gun I see there on the French brig's forecastle.
The masts in both ships have the same rake, the yards the same spread, and the running-gear
is rove and led in exactly the same manner.  The only difference I can distinguish between
the two ships is that yonder brig has a broad white ribbon round her, and a small figure-head
painted white, whilst the pirate-craft was painted black down to her copper, and she carried
a large black figure- head representing a negress with a gaudy scarf wrapped about her waist."

"Um!"  I remarked.  "Lend me the glass a moment, will you?  Thanks!"

The Vestale was, at the moment, just about to cross our fore-foot, and was therefore about
as near to us as she would be at all I focused the telescope--a fine powerful instrument--upon
her, and could clearly see the weather-stains and the yellowish-red marks of rust in the wake
of her chain-plates upon the broad white ribbon which stretched along her side.  Evidently
that band of white paint had been exposed to sun and storm for many a long day.  Then I had
a look at her figure-head.  It was a half-length model of a female figure, beautifully carved,
less than life-size, with one arm drooping gracefully downwards, and the other--the right--outstretched,
with a gilded lamp in the right hand. That, too, was weather-stained, and the gilding tarnished
by long exposure.  Those pertinacious, half-formed suspicions, which Richards' words had stirred
into new life were refuted; and yet, as I have said, I could not shake them off, try as I would,
and argue with myself as I would, that they were utterly ridiculous and unreasonable.

"Look here, Mr Richards," said I; "if you really are as positive upon this matter as you say,
I wish you would speak to Captain Vernon about it; it might--and no doubt would--help us very
materially in effecting the capture of the pirate-brig.  We have seen the Vestale twice, and
have had so good an opportunity to note her peculiarities of structure and equipment that we
shall now know her again as far off as we can see her.  If, therefore, we should ever happen
to fall in with a brig the exact counterpart of the Vestale in all respects, except as to the
matters of her figure-head and the painting of her hull, I should think we may take it for
granted that that brig will undoubtedly be the pirate which destroyed the Juliet.  And you
may depend upon it, my good sir, that it is that identical craft that the Vestale is now seeking."

"Ye-es, very likely--quite possible," he replied hesitatingly, and evidently still labouring
under the feeling of perplexity I had noticed. Then, straightening himself up and passing his
hand across his forehead, as though to clear away the mental cobwebs there, he added: "I'll
go and speak to Captain Vernon about it at once."

And away he accordingly walked to carry out his resolve.

We stood on as we were going until eight bells in the afternoon watch that day, when the ship
was hove round on the larboard tack and a course shaped for Saint Paul de Loando, our skipper
having come to the conclusion that the brig referred to in the Vestale's signal was undoubtedly
the craft which we had been on our way back to the Congo to look for, and that as, according
to the gun-brig's statement, she was no longer there, we were now free to proceed direct to
Saint Paul to land the burnt-out crew as soon as possible.

We entered the bay--upon the shore of which the town is built--about 10 a.m. on the second
day after our last meeting with the Vestale, and, anchoring in ten fathoms, lowered a boat,
in which Mr Richards and his crew were landed, Captain Vernon going on shore with them.  The
skipper remained on shore until 4 p.m., and when he came off it was easy to see that he was
deeply preoccupied.  The boat was at once hoisted in, the messenger passed, the anchor hove
up, and away we went again, crowding sail for the Congo.  As soon as the ship was clear of
the Loando reef and fairly at sea once more, Captain Vernon summoned the first and second lieutenants
to his cabin, where the three remained closeted with him for some time, indeed the two officers
dined with him; but, whatever the matter might be, neither Mr Austin nor Mr Smellie let fall
a word as to its nature, though it was evident from their manner that it was deemed of considerable
import.

When I turned in that night I felt very greatly dissatisfied with myself.  Those outrageous
suspicions, upon which I have dwelt so much in the last few pages, seemed to be gathering new
strength every day in spite of my utmost endeavours to dissipate them, and that, too, without
the occurrence of anything fresh to confirm them.  I accordingly took myself severely to task;
subjected myself to a rigid self-examination, looking the matter square in the face; and the
conclusions to which I came were--first, that I had allowed myself to be deluded into the belief
that the Vestale herself was the craft which had committed the act of piracy of which poor
Richards and his crew were the victims; and second, that I had been an unmitigated idiot for
suffering myself to be so deluded.  On going thoroughly over the whole question I was forced
to admit to myself that there was not a particle of evidence incriminating the French gun-brig
save what I had manufactured out of my own too vivid imagination; and I clearly foresaw that
unless I could get rid of, or, at all events, conquer, this hallucination, I should be doing
or saying something which would get me into a serious scrape.  And, having at last thus settled
the question--as I thought--to my own satisfaction, I rolled over in my hammock and went to sleep.

The breeze held fresh during the whole of that night; and the Daphne made such good progress
that by eight o'clock on the following morning we found ourselves once more abreast of Padron
Point at the entrance to the Congo.  Sail was now shortened; the ship hove-to, and the men
sent to their breakfasts; the officers also being requested to get theirs at the same time.

At 8:30 the hands were turned up, the main topsail filled, and, under topsails, jib, and spanker,
and with a leadsman in the fore-chains on each side, the sloop proceeded boldly to enter the
river, under the pilotage of the master, who stationed himself for the purpose on the fore-topsail
yard.  This was a most unusual, almost an un-heard-of, proceeding at that time, the river never
having been, up to that period, properly surveyed; so we came to the conclusion that there
was something to the fore a trifle out of the common; a conclusion which was very fully verified
a little later on.

It was just low water as we came abreast of Shark Point--which we passed at a distance of about
a mile--but we found plenty of water everywhere; and, stretching across the river's mouth,
the Daphne finally entered Banana Creek, and anchored in six fathoms close to a smart-looking
little barque of unquestionable American nationality.  The sails were furled, the yards squared,
ropes coiled down, and decks cleared up; and then the first cutter was piped away, Mr Smellie
at the same time receiving a summons to the skipper's cabin.

The conference between the captain and the second lieutenant was but a short one; and when
the latter again appeared on deck he beckoned me to him and instructed me to don my dirk, as
I was to accompany him on a visit to the barque.  Just as we were about to go down over the
side Captain Vernon appeared on deck, and, addressing the second "luff," said.

"Whatever you do, Mr Smellie, keep my caution in mind, and do not provoke the man.  Remember,
that if he is an American--of which I have very little doubt--we cannot touch him, even if
he has his hold full of slaves; so be as civil to him as you can, please; and get all the information
you can out of him."

"Ay, ay, sir; I'll do my best to stroke his fur the right way, never fear," answered Smellie
laughingly; and away we went.

A couple of minutes later we shot alongside the barque; and Smellie and I clambered up her
side-ladder to the deck, where we were received by a lanky cadaverous-looking individual arrayed
in a by no means spotless suit of white nankin topped by a very dilapidated broad-brimmed Panama
straw-hat.

"Mornin', gentlemen," observed this individual, in response to our salutation; "powerful hot;
ain't it?"

"Very," returned Smellie in his most amicable manner, "but"--pointing to the awning spread
fore and aft, "I see you know how to make yourselves comfortable.  Your ship, I observe, is
called the Pensacola of New Orleans.  I have come on board to go through the formality of looking
at your papers.  You have no objection, I presume?"

"Nary objection, stranger.  Look at 'em and welcome," was the reply.  "I guess I'll have to
trouble you to come below, though."

With this he led the way down the companion-ladder, and we followed; eventually bringing-up
on the comfortably-cushioned lockers of a fine spacious airy cabin very nicely fitted up.

Seating himself opposite us, the skipper struck a hand-bell which stood on the cabin table;
in response to which summons a black steward, clad, like his master, in dingy white, made his
appearance from the neighbouring pantry.  Our host thereupon formed his right hand into the
shape of a cup and raised it to his mouth, at the same time exhibiting three fingers of his
left hand; and the steward, nodding and grinning his comprehension of the mute order, withdrew,
to reappear next moment with a case-bottle of rum, three glasses, and a water-monkey, or porous
earthen jar, full of what proved, on our pouring it out, to be a very doubtful-looking liquid.

"Help yourselves, gentlemen," said our host, pushing the rum-bottle and water-monkey towards
us.  "I ain't got no wine aboard to offer you, but the liquor is real old Jamaica, and the
water is genuine Mississippi; they make a first-grade mixture.  But perhaps you prefer to take
your liquor `straight;' I always do."

And he forthwith practically illustrated the process of taking liquor "straight" by half-filling
his tumbler with neat rum, which he swallowed at a single gulp.  He then rose and retired to
his state-room in search of his papers; leaving us to sip our five-water grog meanwhile.

The papers were produced, examined, and found to be perfectly correct; after which Smellie
set himself to the task of "pumping" our new acquaintance; without much result, though we certainly
managed to obtain one bit of valuable information from him.

"Whether there's slavers or no in this rivulet, I'll just leave you to find out, stranger,"
he remarked, in answer to a question of Smellie's; "I'm here about my own business, and you're
here about yourn; you can't interfere with me; and I won't interfere with you.  But I don't
mind tellin' you that if you'd been here five days ago you'd have had a chance of nabbin' the
Black Venus, the smartest slaver, I guess, that's ever visited this section of our sublunary
sphere."

"Indeed!" exclaimed Smellie eagerly.  "What sort of a craft is she? What is she like?"

"She is a brig,"--I pricked up my ears at this, and so, too, I could see, did Smellie--"of
about three hundred tons register; long, and low in the water; mounts fourteen guns, seven
of a side, and a long 32- pounder on her forecastle.  Has very tall sticks, with a rake aft;
and a tremendous spread of `caliker.'  And she's the fastest craft in all creation.  Your ship
looks as if she could travel; but I 'low she ain't a carcumstance to the Black Venus."

"How is she painted?" asked Smellie.  "Is she all black, or does she sometimes sport a white
riband?"

"Aha!" thought I; "that looks as though my suspicions are at last shared by somebody else.
Richards' communication to the skipper has surely borne fruit."

"Wall," replied the Yankee with a knowing twinkle in his eye, "when she sailed from here she
was black right down to her copper.  But that ain't much to go by; I guess her skipper knows
a trick or two."

"You think, then, he might alter her appearance as soon as he got outside?" insinuated Smellie.

"He might--and he mightn't," was the cautious reply.

"Um!" observed Smellie.  Then, as if inspired with a sudden suspicion, he asked:

"Have you seen any men-o'-war in here lately?"

I could see by the knowing look in our Yankee friend's eyes that he read poor Smellie like a book.

"Wall," he replied.  "Come to speak of it, there was a brig in here a few days ago that looked
like a man-o'-war.  She were flyin' French colours--when she flew any at all--and called herself
the Vestale."

"Ah!" ejaculated Smellie.  "Did any of her people board you?"

"You bet!" was the somewhat ambiguous answer.  Not that the reply was at all ambiguous in itself;
it was the peculiar emphasis with which the words were spoken, and the peculiar expression
of the man's countenance as he uttered them, which constituted the ambiguity; the words simply
implied that the Pensacola had been boarded; the look spoke volumes, but the volumes were written
in an unknown tongue, so far as we at least were concerned.

"What is the Vestale like?" was Smellie's next question.

"Just as like the Black Venus as two peas in a pod," was the reply, given with evident quiet
amusement.

"And how was she painted?" persisted Smellie.  "Ah, there now, stranger, you've puzzled me!"
was the unexpected answer.

"Why?  Did you not say you saw her?" queried Smellie sharply.

"No, I guess not; I didn't say anything of the sort.  I was ashore when her people boarded
me.  It was my mate that told me about it."

"Your mate?  Can we see him?" exclaimed Smellie eagerly.

"Yes, I reckon," was the reply.  "He's ashore now; but you've only to pull about five miles
up the creek, and I calculate you'll find him somewheres."

"Thanks!" answered Smellie.  "I'm afraid we can't spare the time for that.  Can you tell me
which of the two brigs--the Vestale or the Black Venus--sailed first from the river?"

"Wall, stranger, I'd like to help you all I could, I really would; but," with his hand wandering
thoughtfully over his forehead, "I really can't for the life of me remember just now which
of 'em it was."

The fellow was lying; I could see it, and so could Smellie; but we could not, of course, tell
him so; and we accordingly thanked him for his information and rose to go, with an uncomfortable
feeling that we had received certain information, part of which was probably true whilst part
was undoubtedly false, and that we were wholly without the means of distinguishing the one
from the other.

We returned to the Daphne with our information, such as it was; and Smellie at once made his
report to the skipper.  A consultation followed in which the first lieutenant took part, and
at the end of half an hour the three officers reappeared on deck, and the captain's gig was
piped away.

Being suspicious, as I have already remarked, that something unusual was brewing, I remained
on deck during the progress of this conference, so as to be at hand in the event of my services
being required; and the Pensacola happening to be the most prominent object in the landscape,
she naturally came in for a large share of my attention during the progress of the discussion
above referred to.  She was flying no colours when we anchored in such close proximity to her,
a circumstance which I attributed to the fact that she was, to all appearance, the only vessel
in the river, and I was, therefore, not much surprised when, a short time after our visit to
her, I observed her skipper go aft and run up the American ensign to his gaff-end.  But I was
a little surprised when he followed this up by hoisting a small red swallow-tailed flag to
his main-royal-mast-head.  I asked myself what could be the meaning of this move on his part,
and it did not take me very long to arrive at the conclusion that it was undoubtedly meant
as a signal of some sort to somebody or other.  He was scarcely likely to do such a thing for
the gratification of a mere whim.  And if it was a signal, what did it mean's and to whom was
it made?  There was of course the possibility that it was a prearranged signal to his absent
mate; but, taken in conjunction with the fact that it was exhibited almost immediately after
our visit to his ship, coupled with the other fact of his obvious attempt to keep us in the
dark with respect to certain matters, I was greatly disposed to regard it rather as a warning
signal to a vessel or vessels concealed in one or other of the numerous creeks which we knew
to exist in our immediate vicinity.  Accordingly, on the reappearance of the second lieutenant
on deck, I stepped up to him and directed his attention to the suspicious-looking red flag,
and mentioned my surmises as to its meaning.

"Thank you, Mr Hawkesley," said he.  "I have no doubt it is a signal of some kind; but what
it means we have no possible method of ascertaining, and, moreover, it suits our purpose just
now to take no notice of it.  By the way, are you anything of a shot?"

"Pretty fair," I replied.  "I can generally bring down a bird upon the wing if it is not a
very long shot."

"Then put your pistols in your belt, provide yourself with a fowling- piece (I will lend you
one), and be in readiness to go with us in the gig.  We are bound upon a sporting expedition."

I needed no second invitation, but hurried away at once to make the necessary preparations;
albeit there was a something in Mr Smellie's manner which led me to think that sport was perhaps
after all a mere pretext, and that the actual object of our cruise was something much more serious.

A few minutes sufficed to complete my preparations, and when I again stepped on deck, gun in
hand, Captain Vernon and Mr Smellie were standing near the gangway rather ostentatiously engaged--in
full view of the American skipper--in examining their gun-locks, snapping off caps, and so
on; whilst the steward was in the act of passing down over the side--with strict injunctions
to those in the boat to be careful in the handling of it--a capacious basket of provisions
with a snow-white cloth protruding out over its sides.  The precious basket being at length
safely deposited in the gig's stern-sheets, I followed it down the side; the second lieutenant
came next, and the skipper bringing up the rear, we hoisted our lug-sail, the sea-breeze blowing
strongly up the river, and shoved off; our motions being intently scrutinised by the Yankee
skipper as long as we could make him out.

We had scarcely gone a quarter of a mile before a noble crane came sailing across our course
with his head tucked in between his shoulders, his long stilt-like legs projecting astern of
him, and his slowly- flapping wings almost touching the water at every stroke.

"There's a chance for you, Hawkesley," exclaimed our genial second luff; "let drive at him.
All is fish that comes to our net so long as we are within range of the Yankee's telescope;
fire at everything you see."

I raised my gun, pulled the trigger, and down dropped the crane into the water with a broken wing.

"Very neatly done," exclaimed the skipper approvingly.  "Pick up the bird, Thomson,"--to the
coxswain.

The unfortunate bird was duly picked up and hauled into the boat, though not without inflicting
a rather severe wound with its long sharp beak on the hand of the man who grasped it; and we
continued our course.

On reaching the mouth of the creek we hauled sharp round the projecting point, and shaped a
course up and across toward the opposite side of the stream, steering for a low densely-wooded
spit which jutted out into the river some eight miles distant.  The tide, which was rising,
was in our favour, and in an hour from the time of emerging from the creek into the main stream
we had reached our destination; the boat shot into a water- way about a cable's length in width,
the sail was lowered, the mast unstepped, and the men, taking to their oars, proceeded to paddle
the boat gently up the creek.

We proceeded up this creek a distance of about two miles, when, coming suddenly upon a small
branch, or tributary, well suited as a place of concealment for the boat, she was headed into
it, and--after proceeding along the narrow canal for a distance of perhaps one hundred yards--
hauled alongside the bank and secured.

CHAPTER SEVEN.

MR. SMELLIE MAKES A LITTLE SURVEY.

Giving the gig's crew strict injunctions not to leave their boat for a moment upon any consideration,
but to hold themselves in readiness to shove off on the instant of our rejoining them--should
a precipitate retreat prove necessary--Captain Vernon and Mr Smellie stepped ashore with a
request that I would accompany them.

The channel or canal in which the gig was now lying was about fifty feet wide, with a depth
of water of about eight feet at the point to which we had reached.  Its banks were composed
of soft black foetid mud in a semi-liquid state, so that in order to land it was necessary
for us to make our way as best we could for a distance of some two hundred feet over the roots
of the mangrove trees which thickly bordered the stream, before we were enabled to place our
feet on solid ground.

Beyond the belt of mangroves the soil was densely covered with that heterogeneous jumble of
parasitic creepers of all descriptions spoken of in Africa by the generic denomination of "bush,"
thickly interspersed with trees, many of which were of large size.  Path there was none, not
even the faintest traces of a footprint in the dry sandy soil to show that humanity had ever
passed over the ground before us.  It may be that ours were the first human footsteps which
had ever pressed the soil in that particular spot; at all events it looked very much like it,
and we had not travelled one hundred feet before we became fully impressed with the necessity
for carefully marking our route if we had the slightest desire to find our way back again.
This task was intrusted to me, and I accomplished it by cutting a twig half through, and then
bending it downwards until a long light strip of the inner wood was exposed.  This I did at
distances of about a yard apart all along our route, whilst the skipper and Smellie went ahead
and forced a passage for the party through the thick undergrowth.

The general direction of our route was about south-south-west, as nearly as the skipper could
hit it off with the aid of a pocket-compass, and it took us more than two hours to accomplish
a journey of as many miles through the thick tangled undergrowth.  This brought us out close
to the water's edge again, and we saw before us a canal about a cable's length across, which
the skipper said he was certain was a continuation of the one we had entered in the gig.  About
a mile distant, on the opposite side of the canal, could be seen the tops of the hills which
we had noticed on the occasion of our first exploration of the river.

Here, as at the point of our landing, the banks of the canal consisted of black slimy foetid
mud, out of which grew a belt of mangroves, their curious twisted roots straggling in a thick
complicated mass of net-work over the slime beneath.

The sun was shining brilliantly down through the richly variegated foliage on the opposite
bank of the stream, and lighting up the surface of the thick turbid water as it rolled sluggishly
past; but where we stood--just on the inner edge of the mangrove-swamp--everything was enshrouded
in a sombre green twilight, and an absolute silence prevailed all round us, which was positively
oppressive in its intensity.

Breathless, perspiring, and exhausted with our unwonted exertions, we flung ourselves upon
the ground for a moment's rest, during which the skipper and Smellie sought solace and refreshment
in a cigar.  As for me, not having at that time contracted the habit of smoking, I was contented
to sit still and gaze with admiring eyes upon the weird beauty of my surroundings.

For perhaps a quarter of an hour my companions gave themselves up to the silent enjoyment of
their cigars, but at the end of that time the skipper, turning to Smellie, said:

"I think this must be the creek to which we have been directed; but there are so many of these
inlets, creeks, and canals on this side of the river--and on the other side also for that matter--that
one cannot be at all certain about it.  I would have explored the place thoroughly in the gig,
and so have saved the labour of all this scrambling through the bush, but for the fact that
if we are right, and any slave-craft happen to be lurking here--as our Yankee friend's suspicious
conduct leads me to believe may be the case--there would be a great risk of our stumbling upon
them unawares, and so giving them the alarm.  And even if we escaped that mischance I have
no doubt but that they keep sentinels posted here and there on the look-out, and we could hardly
hope that the boat would escape being sighted by one or other of them.  If there are any craft
hereabout, we may rest assured that they are fully aware of the presence of the Daphne in the
river; but I am in hopes that our ruse of openly starting as upon a sporting expedition has
thrown dust in their eyes for once, and that we may be able to steal near enough to get a sight
of them without exciting their suspicions."

"It would be worth all our trouble if we amid do so," responded Smellie.  "But I don't half
like this blind groping about in the bush; to say nothing of the tremendously hard work which
it involves there is a very good chance, it seems to me, of our losing ourselves when we attempt
to make our way back.  And then, again, we are quite uncertain how much further we may have
to go in order to complete our search satisfactorily.  Do you not think it would be a good
plan for one of us to shin up a tree and take a look round before we go any further?  There
are some fine tall trees here close at hand, from the higher branches of which one ought to
be able to get a pretty extensive view."

"A very capital idea!" assented the skipper.  "We will act upon it at once.  There, now," pointing
to a perfect forest giant only a few yards distant, "is a tree admirably suited to our purpose.
Come, Mr Hawkesley, you are the youngest, and ought therefore to be the most active of the
trio; give us a specimen of your tree-climbing powers. Just shin up aloft as high as you can
go, take a good look round, and let us know if you can see anything worth looking at."

"Ay ay, sir," I responded; "but--" with a somewhat blank look at the tall, straight, smooth
stem to which he pointed, "where are the ratlines?"

"Ratlines, you impudent young monkey!" responded the skipper with a laugh; "why, an active
young fellow like you ought to make nothing of going up a spar like that."

But when we reached the tree it became evident that the task of climbing it was not likely
to prove so easy as the skipper had imagined; for the bole was fully fifteen feet in circumference,
with not a branch or protuberance of any description for the first sixty feet.

The second lieutenant, however, was equal to the occasion, and soon showed me how the thing
might be done.  Whipping out his knife, he quickly cut a long length of "monkey-rope" or creeper,
and twisting the tough pliant stem into a grummet round the trunk of the tree, he bade me pass
the bight over my shoulders, and then showed me how, with its aid, I might work myself gradually
upward.

Accordingly, acting under his directions I placed myself within the bight, and tucking it well
up under my arm-pits, slid the grummet up the trunk as high as it would go.  Then bearing back
upon it, so that it supported my whole weight, I worked my body upwards by pressing against
the tree-trunk with my knees.  By this means I rose about two feet from the ground.  Then pressing
against the tree firmly with my feet I gave the grummet a quick jerk upward and again worked
myself up the trunk with my knees as before.  In this way I got along very well, and after
an awkward slip or two, in which my knees suffered somewhat and my breeches still more, soon
acquired the knack of the thing, and speedily reached the lowermost branch, after which the
rest of my ascent was of course easy.

On reaching the topmost branches I found that the tree I had climbed was indeed, as the skipper
had aptly described it, a forest giant; it was by far the most lofty tree in the neighbourhood,
and from my commanding position I had a fine uninterrupted prospect of many miles extent all
round me, except to the southward, where the chain of hills before- mentioned shut in the view.

Away to the northward and eastward, in which direction I happened to be facing when I at length
paused to look around me, I could catch glimpses of the river, over and between the intervening
tree-tops, for a distance of quite twenty miles, and from what I saw I came to the conclusion
that in that direction the river must widen out considerably and be thickly studded with islands,
among which I thought it probable might be found many a snug lurking-place for slave-craft.
On the extreme verge of the horizon I also distinctly made out a small group of hills, which
I conjectured to be situate on the northern or right bank of the river. From these hills all
the way round northerly, to about north-north-west, the country was flat and pretty well covered
with bush; although at a distance of from two to four miles inland I could detect here and
there large open patches of grass-land.  Bearing about north-north-west from my point of observation
was another chain of hills which stretched along the sea-coast outside the river's mouth, and
extended beyond the horizon.  To the left of them again, or about north-west from me, lay Banana
Creek, its entrance about eleven miles distant, and over the intervening tree-tops on Boolambemba
Island I could, so clear was the atmosphere just then, distinctly make out the royal-mast-heads
of the Daphne and the American barque; I could even occasionally detect the gleam of the sloop's
pennant as it waved idly in the sluggish breeze. Still further to the left there lay the river's
mouth, with the ripple which marked the junction between the fresh and the salt water clearly
visible.  Next came Shark Point, with the open sea stretching mile after mile away beyond it,
until its gleaming surface became lost in the ruddy afternoon haze, and on the inner side of
the point I could trace, without much difficulty, the course of the various creeks which we
had explored in the boat on the occasion of our first visit.  Looking below me, I allowed my
eye to travel along the course of the stream or canal which flowed past almost under my feet,
and following it along I saw that it forked at a point about three miles to the westward, and
turned suddenly northward at a point about three miles further on, the branch and the stream
itself eventually joining the river, and forming with it two islands of about five and three
miles in length respectively, the larger of the two being that which we had so laboriously
crossed that same afternoon.

The view which lay spread out below and around me was beautiful as a dream; it would have formed
a fascinating study for a painter; but whatever art-instincts may have been awakened within
me upon my first glance round were quickly put to flight by a scene which presented itself
at a point only some three miles away.  At that distance the channel or stream below me forked,
as I have already said, and at the point of divergence of the two branches the water way broadened
out until it became quite a mile wide, forming as snug a little harbour as one need wish to
see.  And in this harbour, perfectly concealed from all prying eyes which might happen to pass
up or down the river, lay a brig, a brigantine, and a schooner, three as rakish-looking craft
as could well be met with.  Their appearance alone was almost sufficient to condemn them; but
a huge barracoon standing in a cleared space close at hand, and a crowd of blacks huddled together
on the adjacent bank, apparently in course of shipment on board one or other of the craft in
sight, put their character quite beyond question.

A hail from below reminded me that there were others who would feel an interest in my discovery.

"Well, Mr Hawkesley, is there anything in sight, from your perch aloft there, worth looking
at?" came floating up to me in the skipper's voice.

"Yes, sir, indeed there is.  There are three craft in the creek away yonder, in the very act
of shipping negroes at this moment," I replied.

"The deuce there are!" ejaculated the skipper.  "Which do you think will be the easier plan
of the two: to climb the tree, or to make our way through the bush to the spot?"

"You will find it much easier to climb the tree, I think, sir.  You can be alongside me in
five minutes, whilst it will take us nearly two hours, I should say, to make our way to them
through the bush," I replied.

"Very well; hold on where you are then.  We will tackle the tree," returned the skipper.

And, looking down, I saw him and the second lieutenant forthwith whip out their knives and
begin hacking away at a creeper, wherewith to make grummets to assist them in their attempt
at tree-climbing.

In a few minutes the twain were alongside me, and--in happy forgetfulness of the ruin wrought
upon their unmentionables in the process of "shinning" aloft--eagerly noting through their
telescopes the operations in progress on board the slavers.

"They seem very busy there," observed the skipper with his eye still peering through the tube
of his telescope.  "You may depend on it, Mr Smellie, the rascals have got wind of our presence
in the river, and intend trying to slip out past us to-night as soon as the fog settles down.
I'll be bound they know every inch of the river, and could find their way out blindfold?"

"No doubt of it, sir," answered the second luff.  "But it is not high- water until two o'clock
to-morrow morning, so that I suspect they will not endeavour to make a move until about an
hour after midnight.  That will enable them to go out on the top of the flood, and with a strong
land-breeze in their favour."

"So much the better," returned Captain Vernon, with sparkling eyes. "But we will take care
to have the boats in the creek in good time.  You never know where to have these fellows; they
are as cunning as foxes. Please note their position as accurately as you can, Mr Smellie, for
I intend you to lead the attack to-night."

"Thank you, sir," answered Smellie delightedly; and planting himself comfortably astride a
branch, he drew out a pencil and paper and proceeded to make a very careful sketch-chart of
the river-mouth, Banana Creek, and the creek in which the slavers were lying; noting the bearings
carefully with the aid of a pocket-compass.

"There, sir," said he, when he had finished, showing the sketch to the skipper; "that will
enable me to find them, I think, let the night be as dark or as thick as it may.  How do you
think it looks for accuracy?"

"Capital!" answered Captain Vernon approvingly; "you really have a splendid eye for proportion
and distance, Mr Smellie.  That little chart might almost have been drawn to scale, so correct
does it look. How in the world do you manage it?"

"It is all custom," was the reply.  "I make it an invariable rule to devote time and care enough
to such sketches as this to ensure their being as nearly accurate as possible.  I have devised
a few rules upon which I always work; and the result is generally a very near approximation
to absolute accuracy.  But the sun is getting low; had we not better be moving, sir?"

"By all means, if you are sure you have all the information you need," was the reply.  "I would
not miss my way in that confounded jungle to- night for anything.  It would completely upset
all our arrangements."

"To say nothing of the possibility of our affording a meal to some of the hungry carnivora
which probably lurk in the depths of the said jungle," thought I.  But I held my peace, and
dutifully assisted my superior officers to effect their descent.

It was decidedly easier to go up than to go down; but we accomplished our descent without accident,
and after a long and wearisome tramp back through the bush found ourselves once more on board
the gig just as the last rays of the sun were gilding the tree-tops.  The tide had now turned,
and was therefore again in our favour; and in an hour from the time of our emerging upon the
main stream we reached the sloop, just as the first faint mist-wreaths began to gather upon
the bosom of the river.

I was exceedingly anxious to be allowed to take part in the forthcoming expedition and had
been eagerly watching, all the way across the river, for an opportunity to ask the necessary
permission; but Captain Vernon had been so earnestly engaged in discussing with Smellie the
details and arrangements for the projected attack that I had been unable to do so. On reaching
the ship, however, the opportunity came.  As we went up over the side the skipper turned and said:

"By the way, Mr Smellie, I hope you--and you also, Mr Hawkesley--will give me the pleasure
of your company to dinner this evening?"

Smellie duly bowed his acceptance of the invitation and I was about to follow suit when an
idea struck me and I said:

"I shall be most happy, sir, if my acceptance of your kind invitation will not interfere with
my taking part in to-night's boat expedition.  I have been watching for an opportunity to ask
your permission, and I hope you will not refuse me."

"Oh! that's it, is it?" laughed the skipper.  "I thought you seemed confoundedly fidgety in
the boat.  Well--I scarcely know what to say about it; it will be anything but child's play,
I can assure you. Still, you are tall and strong, and--there, I suppose I must say `yes.' And
now run away and shift your damaged rigging as quickly as possible; dinner will be on the table
in ten minutes."

I murmured my thanks and forthwith dived below to bend a fresh pair of pantaloons, those I
had on being in so dilapidated a condition--what with the tree-climbing and our battle with
the thorns and briars of the bush--as to be in fact scarcely decent.

The conversation at the dinner-table that night was of a very animated character, but as it
referred entirely to the projected attack upon the slavers I will not inflict any portion of
it upon the reader.  Mr Austin, the first lieutenant, was at first very much disappointed when
he found he was not to lead the boat expedition; but he brightened up a bit when the skipper
pointed out to him that in all probability the slavers would slip their cables and endeavour
to make their escape from the river on finding themselves attacked by the boats; in which case
the cream of the fun would fall to the share of those left on board the sloop.

Mr Smellie--who was at all times an abstemious man--contented himself with a couple of glasses
of wine after dinner, and, the moment that the conversation took a general turn, rose from
the table, excusing himself upon the plea that he had several matters to attend to in connection
with the expedition.  As he rose he caught my eye and beckoned me to follow him, which I did
after duly making my bow to the company.

When we reached the deck the fog was so thick that it was as much as we could do to see the
length of the ship.

"Just as I expected," remarked my companion.  "How are we to find the creek in such weather
as this, Mr Hawkesley?"

"I am sure I don't know, sir," I replied, looking round me in bewilderment.  "I suppose the
expedition will have to be postponed until it clears a bit."

"Not if I can prevent it," said he with energy.  "Although," he added, a little doubtfully,
"it certainly is very thick, and with the slightest deviation from our course we should be
irretrievably lost.  Whereaway do you suppose the creek to be?"

"Oh, somewhere in that direction!" said I, pointing over the starboard quarter.

"You are wrong," remarked my companion, looking into the binnacle.  "The tide is slackening,
whilst the land-breeze is freshening; so that the ship has swung with her head to the eastward,
and the direction in which you pointed leads straight out to sea.  Now, if you want to learn
a good useful lesson--one which may prove of the utmost value to you in after- life--come below
with me to the master, and between us we will show you how to find that creek in the fog."

"Thank you," said I, "I shall be very glad to learn.  Why, you do not even know its compass-bearing."

"No," said Smellie, "but we will soon find it out."  With that we descended to the master's
cabin, where we found the owner in his shirt- sleeves and with a pipe in his mouth, poring
over a chart of the coast on which was shown the mouth of the river only, its inland course
being shown by two dotted lines, indicating that the portion thus marked had never been properly
surveyed.  He was busily engaged as we entered laying down in pencil upon this chart certain
corrections and remarks with reference to the ebb and flow of the tidal current.

"Good evening, gentlemen!" said he as we entered.  "Well, Mr Smellie, so you are going to lead
the attack upon the slavers to-night, I hear."

"Yes," said Smellie, unconsciously straightening himself up, "yes, if this fog does not baffle
us.  And in order that it may not, I have come to invoke your assistance, Mr Mildmay."

"All right, sir!" said old Mildmay.  "I expected you; I was waiting for you, sir."

"That's all right," said the second lieutenant.  "Now, Mildmay," bending over the chart, "whereabouts
is the Daphne?"

"There she is," replied the master, placing the point of his pencil carefully down on the chart
and twisting it round so as to produce a black mark.

"Very good," assented Smellie.  "Now, look here, Mr Hawkesley, this is where your lesson begins."
And he produced the sketch-chart he had made that afternoon and spread it out on the table.

"You will see from this sketch," he proceeded, "that the Daphne bore exactly north-north-west
from the tree in which we were perched when I made it.  Which is equivalent to saying that
the tree bears south-south- east from the Daphne; is it not?"

I assented.

"Very well, then," continued Smellie.  "Be so good, Mr Mildmay, as to draw a line south-south-east
from that pencil-mark which represents the Daphne on your chart."

The master took his parallel ruler and did so.

"So far, so good," resumed the second lieutenant.  "Now my sketch shows that the outer extremity
of Shark Point bore from the tree north-west ¼ west.  In other words, the tree bears from Shark
Point south-east ¼ east.  Lay off that bearing, Mildmay, if you please."

"Very good," he continued, when this second line had been drawn.  "Now it is evident that the
point where these two lines intersect must be the position of the tree.  But, as a check upon
these two bearings I took a third to that sharp projecting point at the mouth of Banana Creek,"
indicating with the pencil on the chart the point in question.  "That point bears north-west
by north; consequently the tree bears from it south-east by south.  Mark that off also, Mildmay,
if you please."

The master did so, and the three lines were found to intersect each other at exactly the same
point.  "Capital!" exclaimed Smellie, in high good-humour.  "That satisfactorily establishes
the exact position of the tree.  Now for the next step.  The slave fleet bears north-west ¼
west from the tree; and the western entrance to the creek (that by which we shall advance to
the attack to-night) bears exactly north-west from the same point.  Let us lay down these two
bearings on the chart--thus.  Now it is evident that the slave fleet and the entrance to the
creek are situate somewhere or other on these two lines; the question is--where?  I will show
you how I ascertained those two very important bits of information if you will step to my cabin
and bring me the telescope which you will find hanging against the bulkhead."

Intensely interested in this valuable practical lesson in surveying I hurried away to do his
bidding, and speedily returned with the glass, a small but very powerful instrument, which
I had often greatly admired.

Taking the telescope from my hand he drew it open and directed my attention to a long series
of neat little numbered lines scratched on the polished brass tube.

"You see these scratches?" he said.  "Very well; now I will explain to you what they are. 
When I was a midshipman it was my good fortune to be engaged for a time on certain surveying
work, during which I acquired a tolerably clear insight of the science.  And after the work
was over and done with, it occurred to me that my knowledge might be of the greatest use in
cases similar to the present.  Now I may tell you, by way of explanation, that surveying consists,
broadly, in the measurement of angles and lines.  The angles are, as you have already seen,
very easily taken by means of a pocket-compass; but the measurement of the lines bothered me
very considerably for a long time.  Of course you can measure a line with perfect accuracy
by means of a surveyor's chain, but I wanted something which, if not quite so accurate as that,
would be sufficiently correct, while not occupying more than a few seconds in the operation
of measurement.  So I set to work and trained myself to judge distances by the eye alone; and
by constant diligent practice I acquired quite a surprising amount of proficiency.  And let
me say here, I would very strongly recommend you and every young officer to practise the same
thing; you will be surprised when you discover in how many unexpected ways it will be found
useful.  Well, I managed to do a great deal of serviceable work even in this rough-and-ready
way; but after a time I grew dissatisfied with it--I wanted some means of measuring which should
be just as rapid but a great deal more accurate.  I thought the matter over for a long time,
and at last hit upon the idea of turning the telescope to account.  The way I did it was this.
You have, of course, found that if you look through your telescope at an object, say, half
a mile away, and then direct the instrument to another object, say, four miles off, you have
to alter the focus of the glass before you can see the second object distinctly.  It was this
peculiarity which I pressed into my service as a means of measuring distances.  My first step
was to secure a small, handy, but first-rate telescope--the best I could procure for money;
and, provided with this, I commenced operations by looking through it at objects, the exact
distances of which from me I knew.  I focused the glass upon them carefully, and then made
a little scratch on the tube showing how far it had been necessary to draw it out in order
to see the object distinctly; and then I marked the scratch with the distance of the object.
You see," pointing to the tube, "I have a regular scale of distances here, from one hundred
yards up to ten miles; and these scratches, let me tell you, represent the expenditure of a
vast amount of time and labour.  But they are worth it all.  For instance, I want to ascertain
the distance of an object.  I direct the telescope toward it, focus the instrument carefully,
and find that I can see it most clearly when the tube is drawn out to, say, this distance,"
suiting the action to the word.  "I then look at the scale scratched on the tube, and find
that it reads six thousand one hundred feet--which is a few feet over one nautical mile.  And
thus I measure all my distances, and am so enabled to make a really satisfactory little survey
in a few minutes as in the case of this afternoon.  You must not suppose, however, that I am
able to measure in this way with absolute accuracy; I am not; but I manage to get a very near
approximation to it, near enough for such purposes as the present.  Thus, within the distance
of a quarter of a mile I have found that I can always measure within two feet of the actual
distance; beyond that and up to half a mile I can measure within four feet of the actual distance;
and so on up to ten miles, which distance I can measure to within four hundred feet.

"And now to return to the business in hand.  My telescope informed me that the slave fleet
was anchored at a distance of eighteen thousand three hundred feet (or a shade over three nautical
miles) from the tree, and that the western entrance to the creek is twenty-eight thousand nine
hundred feet (or about four and three-quarter nautical miles) from the same spot.  We have
now only to mark off these two distances on the two compass-bearings which we last laid down
on the chart: thus,"--measuring and marking off the distances as he spoke--"and here we have
the position of the slavers and of the entrance to the creek; and by a moment's use of Mildmay's
parallel ruler--thus--we get the compass- bearing of the entrance from the Daphne.  There it
is--south-east by east; and now we measure the distance from one to the other, and find it
to be--eight miles, as nearly as it is possible to measure it.  Thus, you see, my rough-and
ready survey of this afternoon affords us the means of ascertaining our course and distance
from the Daphne to a point for which we should otherwise have been obliged to search, and which
we could not possibly have hoped to find in the impenetrable fog which now overspreads the river."

"Thank you, Mr Smellie," said I, highly delighted with the lesson I had received; "if it will
not be troubling you too much I think I must ask you to give me a lesson or two in surveying
when you can spare the time."

"I shall be very pleased," was the reply.  "Never hesitate to come to me for any information
or instruction which you think I may be able to afford you.  I shall always be happy to help
you on in your studies to the utmost extent of my ability.  But we have not quite finished
yet, and it is now, Mildmay, that I think you may perhaps be able to help us.  You see we shall
have to pull--or sail, as the case may be--across the current, and it will therefore be necessary
to make some allowance for its set.  Now do you happen to know anything about the speed of
the current in the river?"

"Not half so much as I should like," replied the master; "but a hint which the skipper dropped
this morning caused me to take the dinghy and go away out in mid-stream to spend the day in
fishing--ha--ha--ha! The Yankee had his glass turned full upon me, off and on, the whole morning--so
I'm told--and if so I daresay he saw that I had some fairly good sport.  But I wasn't so busy
with my hooks and lines but that I found time to ascertain that the ebb-stream runs at a rate
of about four knots at half-tide; and just abreast of us it flows to seaward at the rate of
about one knot at half-flood; the salt water flowing into the river along the bottom, and the
fresh water continuing to flow outwards on the surface.  Now, at what time do you propose to
start?"

"About half-past nine to-night," answered Smellie.

Old Mildmay referred to a book by his side, and then said:

"Ah, then you will have about two hours' ebb to contend with--the last two hours of the ebb-tide.
Now let me see,"--and he produced a sheet of paper on which were some calculations, evidently
the result of his observations whilst "Sshing."  He ran over these carefully, and then said:

"How long do you expect it will take you to cross?"

"Two hours, if we have to pull across--as I expect we shall," answered the second lieutenant.

"Two hours!" mused the master.  "Two hours!  Then you'll have to make allowance, sir, for an
average set to seaward of two miles an hour all the way across, or four miles in all."

"Very well," said Smellie.  "Then to counteract that we must shape our course for a point four
miles above that which marks the entrance to the creek--must we not, Mr Hawkesley?"

"Certainly," I said; "that is quite clear."

"Then be so good as to lay that course down on the chart."

I measured off a distance of four miles with the dividers, and marked it off above the mouth
of the creek; then applied the parallel ruler and found the course.

"It is exactly south-east," said I; "and it will take us close past the southern extremity
of this small island."

"That is quite right," remarked Smellie, who had been watching me; "and if we happen to sight
the land in passing that point it will be an assurance that, so far, we have been steering
our proper course.  But-- bless me,"--looking at his watch--"it is a quarter after nine.  I
had no idea it was so late.  Run away, Mr Hawkesley, and make your preparations.  Put on your
worst suit of clothes, and throw your pea- jacket into the boat.  You may be glad to have it
when we get into the thick of that damp fog.  Bring your pistols, but not your dirk; a ship's
cutlass, with which the armourer will supply you, will be much more serviceable for the work
we have in hand to-night."

I hastened away, and reached the deck again just in time to see the men going down the side
into the boats after undergoing inspection.

CHAPTER EIGHT.

WE ATTACK THE SLAVERS.

The attacking flotilla was composed of the launch, under Mr Smellie, with me for an aide; the
first cutter, in charge of Mr Armitage, the third lieutenant; and the second cutter, in charge
of Mr Williams, the master's mate; the force consisting of forty seamen and four officers--
quite strong enough, in Captain Vernon's opinion, to give a satisfactory account of the three
slavers, which, it was arranged, we were to attack simultaneously, one boat to each vessel.

The last parting instructions having been given to Smellie by the skipper, and rounded off
with a hearty hand-shake and an earnest exclamation of "I wish you success;" with a still more
hearty hand-shake and a "Good-bye, Harold, old boy; good luck attend you!" from Mr Austin,
the second lieutenant motioned me into the launch; followed me closely down; the word to shove
off was given, and away we went punctually at half-past nine to the minute.

The fog was still as thick as ever; so thick, indeed, that it was as much as we could do to
see one end of the boat from the other; and, notwithstanding the care with which, as I had
had an opportunity of seeing, the second lieutenant had worked out all his calculations, I
own that it seemed to me quite hopeless to expect that we should find the place of which we
were in search.  Nevertheless, we pushed out boldly into the opaque darkness, and the boats'
heads were at once laid in the required direction, each coxswain steering by compass, the lighted
binnacle containing which had been previously masked with the utmost care.  Our object being
to take the slavers by surprise the oars were of course muffled, and the strictest silence
enjoined.  Thus there was neither light nor sound to betray our whereabouts, and we slid over
the placid surface of the river almost as noiselessly as so many mist- wreaths.

In so dense a fog it was necessary to adopt unusual precautions in order to prevent the boats
from parting company.  We therefore proceeded in single file, the launch leading, with the
first cutter attached by her painter, the second cutter, in her turn, attached by her painter
to the first cutter, bringing up the rear.  The cutters were ordered to regulate their speed
so that the connecting rope between each and the boat ahead should be just slack enough to
dip into the water and no more, thus insuring that each boat's crew should do its own fair
share of work at the oars.

Once fairly away from the ship's side we were immediately swallowed up by the impenetrable
mist; and for a considerable time the flotilla glided gently along, without a sight or sound
to tell us whether we were going right or wrong; without the utterance of a word on board either
of the boats; and with only the slight muffled sound of the oars in the rowlocks and the gurgle
of the water along the boats' sides to tell that we were moving at all.  The silence would
have been oppressive but for the slight murmuring swirl and ripple of the great river and the
chirping of the countless millions of insects which swarmed in the bush on both banks of the
stream.  The latter sent forth so remarkable a volume of sound that when first told it was
created by insects alone I found my credulity taxed to its utmost limit; and it was not until
I was solemnly assured by Mr Austin that such was the case that I quite believed it.  It was
not unlike the "whirr" of machinery, save that it rose and fell in distinct cadences, and occasionally--as
if by preconcerted arrangement on the part of every individual insect in the district--stopped
altogether for a few moments.  Then, indeed, the silence became weird, oppressive, uncanny;
making one involuntarily shuffle nearer to one's neighbour and glance half-fearfully over one's
shoulder.  Then, after a slight interval, a faint, far-off signal chirp! chirp! would be heard,
and in an instant the whole insect-world would burst into full chorus once more, and the air
would fairly vibrate with sound.  But the night had other voices than this.  Mingled with the
chirr of the insects there would occasionally float off to us the snarling roar of some forest
savage, the barking call of the deer, the yelping of a jackal, the blood-curdling cry of a
hyena, the grunt of a hippopotamus, the weird cry of some night-bird; and--nearer at hand,
sometimes apparently within a yard or so of the boats--sundry mysterious puffings and blowings,
and sudden faint splashings of the water, which latter made me for one, and probably many of
the others who heard them, feel particularly uncomfortable, especially if they happened to
occur in one of the brief intervals of silence on shore.  Once, in particular, during one of
those silent intervals, my hair fairly bristled as the boat was suddenly but silently brought
up all standing by coming into violent collision with some object which broke water directly
under our bows; the shock being instantly followed by a long moaning sigh and a tremendous
swirl of the water as the creature--whatever it was--sank again beneath the surface of the river.

The men in the launch were, like myself, considerably startled at the circumstance, and one
of them--an Irishman--exclaimed, in the first paroxysm of his dismay:

"Howly ropeyarns! what was that?  Is it shipwrecked, stranded, and cast away we are on the
back of a say-crocodile?  Thin, Misther Crocodile, let me tell yez at wanst that I'm not good
to ate; I'm so sthrongly flavoured wid the tibaccy that I'd be shure to disagray wid yez."

This absurd exclamation appealed so forcibly to the men's sense of the ridiculous that it had
the instant effect of steadying their nerves and raising a hearty laugh, which, however, was
as instantly checked by Smellie, who, though he could not restrain a smile, exclaimed sharply:

"Silence, fore and aft!  How dare you cry out in that ridiculous fashion, Flanaghan?  I have
a good mind to report you, sir, as soon as we return to the ship."

"Who shall say how many of us will live to return?"

"Merciful God! who spoke?" hoarsely cried the second lieutenant.  And well he might.  The words
were uttered in a sound scarcely above a whisper, in so low a tone, indeed, that but for Smellie's
startled ejaculation I should almost have been inclined to accept them as prompted by my own
excited imagination; yet I saw in an instant that every man in the boat had heard them and
was as much startled as myself. Who had uttered them, indeed?  Every man's look, as his horrified
glance sought his neighbour's face, asked the same question.  Nobody seemed to have recognised
or to be able to identify the voice; and the strangest thing about it was that it did not appear
to have been spoken in the boat at all, but from a point close at hand.

The men had, with one accord, laid upon their oars in the first shock of this new surprise,
and before they had recovered themselves the first cutter had ranged up alongside.

"Did anyone speak on board you, Armitage?" asked Smellie.

"No, certainly not," was the reply.

"Did you hear anyone speak on board the second cutter then?" followed.

"No; I heard nothing.  Why?"

"No matter," muttered the second lieutenant.  Then, in a low but somewhat louder tone:

"Give way, launches; someone has been trying to play a trick upon us."

The men resumed their work at the oars; but an occasional scarcely heard whisper reaching my
ears and suggesting rather than conveying such fragmentary sentences as "Some of us doomed"--"Lose
the number of our mess," etcetera, etcetera, showed that a very unfortunate impression had
been made by the strange incident.

As we proceeded the second lieutenant began to consult his watch, and at last, turning to me
as he slipped it back into his fob, he whispered:

"A quarter after tea.  We ought now to be close to Boolambemba Point, but the fog keeps so
dense that I am afraid there is no chance of our sighting it."

The insect chorus had been silent for an unusually long time when he spoke; but as the words
left Smellie's lips the sounds burst out once more, this time in startling proximity to our
larboard hand.

"By George! there it is, though, sure enough," continued Smellie.  "By the sharpness of the
sound we must be close aboard of the point.  How is her head, coxswain?"

Before the man could reply there came in a low murmur from the men pulling the port oars:

"We're stirring up the mud here, sir, on the port hand."

And at the same moment, looking up, we became aware that the darkness was deeper--more intense
and opaque, as it were, on our port hand than anywhere else.

"All right!" answered Smellie; "that is the point, sure enough, and very prettily we have hit
it off.  If we can only make as good a shot at the mouth of the creek I shall be more than
satisfied.  How have you been steering, coxswain?"

"South-east, sir, as straight as ever I could keep her."

"That's all right.  South-east is your course all the way across.  Now we are beginning to
draw off from the point and out into mid-stream, and there must be no more talking upon any
pretence whatever.  The noise of the insects will tell us when we are drawing in with the other
bank.  On a night like this one has to be guided in a great measure by sound, and even the
chirp of the grasshoppers may be made useful, Mr Hawkesley."

I murmured a whispered assent as in duty bound, and then all hands relapsed into silence once more.

The men worked steadily away at the oars, not exerting themselves to any great extent, but
keeping the boat moving at the rate of about four knots per hour.  According to our time-reckoning,
and the fact that the volume of sound proceeding from the southern bank of the river had overpowered
that from the northern bank, we had accomplished rather more than the half of our passage across
the stream, when, happening to raise my head upon emerging from a brown study into which I
had fallen, I thought I caught a momentary glimpse of some object looming through the fog broad
on our port beam.  I looked more earnestly still, and presently felt convinced that there was
something there.

Laying my hand on the second lieutenant's arm to call his attention, I whispered:

"Can you see anything out there, sir, abreast of us on our port hand?"

Smellie looked eagerly in the indicated direction for some moments, and then turning to the
coxswain, whispered:

"Starboard--hard!"

The boat's helm was put over, her bows swept round; and then I was certain that we were being
watched, for as the launch swerved out of her course the object became suddenly more distinct,
only to vanish completely into the fog next moment, however, its course being as suddenly and
promptly altered as our own, thus proving that there were other eyes at least as sharp as ours.
But that single momentary glance had been sufficient to show me that the object was a native
canoe containing three persons.

The second lieutenant was seriously disconcerted at this discovery, and was evidently in great
doubt as to whether it would be more prudent to push on or to turn back.  If the occupants
of the canoe happened to be associated with the slavers, and had been sent out as scouts in
anticipation of an attack from us, then there could be little doubt that it would be wiser
to turn back, since a light craft like a canoe could easily reach the creek far enough ahead
of us to give the alarm, in which case we should find a warm reception prepared for us; and
in so dense a fog all the advantage would be on the side of those manning the slave fleet.

On the other hand, the rencontre might possibly have been purely accidental, and its occupants
supremely indifferent to the movements of ourselves and the slavers alike, in which case it
would be not only mortifying in the extreme but possibly fatal to Smellie's prospects in the
service if he allowed himself to be frightened out of the advantage of so excellent an opportunity
for effecting a surprise.

It was a most embarrassing problem with which he thus suddenly found himself brought face to
face; but with a brave man the question could not long remain an open one; a few seconds sufficed
him to determine on proceeding and taking our chance.

The sounds from the shore now rapidly increased in intensity, and by and by we suddenly found
that they proceeded from both sides of the boats. Smellie drew out his watch and consulted
it by the light of the boat's binnacle.

"Twenty minutes to twelve! and we are now entering the creek," he whispered to me.

The slavers, we knew, were anchored about two miles up the creek, and the conviction suddenly
smote me that in another half-hour I should in all probability be engaged in a fierce and deadly
struggle.  Somehow up to that moment I had only regarded the attack as a remote possibility--a
something which might but was not very likely to happen.  I suppose I had unconsciously been
entertaining a doubt as to the possibility of our finding the creek.  Yet, there we were in
it, and nothing could now avert a combat, and more or less bloodshed.  Nothing, that is, except
the exceedingly unlikely circumstance of our finding the birds flown.

Did I wish this?  Was I afraid?

Honestly, I am unable to say whether I was or not; but I am inclined to acquit myself of the
charge of cowardice.  My sensations were peculiar and rather unpleasant, I freely admit; but
looking back upon them now in the light of long years of experience, I am disposed to attribute
them entirely to nervous excitement.  Hitherto my nostrils had never sniffed the odour of powder
burned in anger; I was about to undergo a perfectly new experience; I was about to engage with
my fellow-men in mortal combat; to come face to face with and within arm's-length of those
who, if the opportunity occurred, would take my life deliberately and without a moment's hesitation.
In a short half-hour I might be dying--or dead.  As this disagreeable and inopportune reflection
flashed through my mind my heart throbbed violently, the blood rushed to my head, and my breathing
became so laboured that I felt as though I was stifling. These disagreeable--indeed I might
more truthfully call them painful-- sensations lasted in their intensity perhaps as long as
five minutes, after which they rapidly subsided, to be succeeded by a feverish longing and
impatience for the moment of action.  My excitement ceased; my breathing again became regular;
but the period of suspense--that period which only a few minutes before had seemed so short--now
felt as though it were lengthening out to a veritable eternity.  I wanted to begin at once,
to know the worst, and to get it over.

I had not much longer to wait.  We had advanced about a mile up the creek when a deep hoarse
voice was heard shouting something from the shore.

"Oars!" exclaimed Smellie; and the men ceased pulling.  "What was it the fellow said?" continued
the second lieutenant, turning to me.

"Haven't the slightest idea, but it sounded like Spanish," I replied.

The hail was repeated, but we could make nothing of it.  Mr Armitage, however, who boasted
a slight knowledge of Spanish, informed us--the first cutter having by this time drifted up
abreast of us--that it was a caution to us to return at once or take the consequences.

"Oh! that's it, is it?" remarked Smellie.  "Well, it seems that we are discovered, so any further
attempt at a surprise is useless.  Cast the boats adrift from each other, and we will make
a dash for it.  Our best chance now is to board and carry the three craft simultaneously with
a rush--if we can.  Give way, lads!"

The boats' painters were cast off; the crews with a ringing cheer plunged their oars simultaneously
into the water, and away we went at racing speed through the dense fog along the channel.

We had scarcely pulled half a dozen strokes when the report of a musket rang out from the bank
on our starboard hand; and at the same instant a line of tiny sparks of fire appeared on either
hand through the thick haze, rapidly increasing in size and luminosity until they stood revealed
as huge fires of dry brushwood.  They were twelve in number, six on either bank of the channel,
and were spaced about three hundred yards apart.  So large were they that they rendered the
fog quite luminous; and it seemed pretty evident that they had been built and lighted for the
express purpose of illuminating the channel and revealing our exact whereabouts.  I was congratulating
myself upon the circumstance that the dense fog would to a considerable extent defeat their
purpose, when, in an instant, as though we had passed out through a solid wall, we emerged
from the fog, and there lay the three slave- craft before us, moored with springs on their
cables, boarding-nettings triced up, and guns run out, evidently quite ready to receive us.

The three craft were moored athwart the channel in a slightly curved line, with their bows
pointing to the eastward, the brig being ahead, the schooner next, and the brigantine the sternmost
of the line.  Thus moored, their broadsides commanded the whole channel in the direction of
our advance, and could, if required, be concentrated upon any one point in it.

"Hurrah!" shouted Smellie, rising to his feet and drawing his sword; "hurrah, lads, there is
our game!  Give way and go at them.  I'll take the brig, Armitage; you tackle the brigantine,
and leave Williams to deal with the schooner.  Now bend your backs, launches; there is a glass
of grog all round waiting for you if we are alongside first."

"Hurroo! pull, bhoys, and let's shecure that grog annyhow," exclaimed the irrepressible Flanaghan;
and with another cheer and a hearty laugh the men stretched themselves out and plied the stout
ashen oars until the water fairly buzzed again under the launch's bows, and it almost seemed
as though they would lift her bodily out of the water.

As for Armitage and Williams, they were evidently quite determined not to be beaten in the
race if they could help it.  Both were on their feet, their drawn swords in their right hands,
pistols in their left, and their bodies bobbing energetically forward, in approved racing fashion,
at every stroke of the oars; whilst the voice of first one and then the other could be heard
encouraging their respective crews with such exclamations as:

"Pull now! pull hard!  There she lifts!  Now she travels!  There we draw ahead.  Well pulled;
again so," and so on, she men all the while straining at the oars with a zeal and energy which
left in the wake of each boat a long line of swirling, foamy whirlpools.

We were within about eighty yards of the slavers--the launch leading by a good half length--when
a voice on board the brig uttered some word of command, and that same instant--crash! came
a broadside at us, fired simultaneously from the three ships.  The guns were well-aimed, the
shot flying close over and all round us, tearing and thrashing up the placid surface of the
water about the boats, and sprinkling us to such an extent that, for the moment, we seemed
to be passing through a heavy shower; yet, strange to say, no damage was done.

Before the guns could be again loaded we were alongside, and then ensued--so far at least as
the launch was concerned--a few minutes of such desperate hand-to-hand fighting as I have never
since witnessed. We dashed alongside the brig in the wake of her larboard main rigging, and
as the boat's side touched that of the slaver every man dropped his oar, seized his cutlass,
and sprang for the main channels.  Here, however, we were received so warmly that it was found
utterly impossible to make good our footing, the men springing up only to fall back again into
the boat wounded with pike-thrust, pistol-bullet, or cutlass-gash. Smellie and I happened to
make a dash for the same spot, but being the lighter of the two I was jostled aside by him
and narrowly avoided tumbling overboard.  He succeeded in gaining a temporary footing on the
chain-plate, and was evidently about to scramble thence upon the sheer- pole, when I saw a
pike thrust out at him from over the topgallant bulwarks.  The point struck him in the right
shoulder, passing completely through it; the thrust upset his balance, and down he came by
the run into the boat.  Our lads meanwhile were cutting and hacking most desperately at the
boarding netting, endeavouring to make a passage-way through it, but unfortunately they had
emptied their pistols in the first rush, and, unable to reach their enemies through the netting,
were completely at their mercy.  In less than three minutes all hands were back in the boat,
every one of us more or less hurt, and no nearer to getting on board than we had been before
the beginning of the attack.

The cutters had evidently fared no better, for they were already hauling off, discomfited;
seeing which, Smellie, who seemed scarcely conscious of his wound, reluctantly gave the order
for us to follow their example, which we promptly did.  Poor Smellie!  I pitied him, for I
could see he was deeply mortified at our defeat.  The three boats converged toward each other
as they hauled off, and as soon as we were within speaking distance of them the second lieutenant
inquired of Armitage and Williams whether they had suffered much.

"We have one man killed, and I think none of us have escaped quite scot- free," was Armitage's
reply; whilst Williams reported that two of his men were seriously hurt and seven others slightly
wounded.

"Well," said Smellie, "it is evident that we can do nothing with them unless we change our
tactics.  We will, therefore, all three of us attack the schooner, the two cutters boarding
her, one on each bow, whilst we in the launch will make a feint of attacking the brigantine,
passing her, however, at the last moment, and boarding the schooner aft. Now--away we go!"

The boats upon this were quickly swept round, and off we dashed toward our respective points
of attack.  We were still fully a hundred yards distant when another broadside was poured into
us, this time with very destructive effect so far as the launch was concerned.  We were struck
by no less than five nine-pound shot, two of which played havoc with our oars on the starboard
side, a third tore out about twelve feet of planking and gunwale on the same side, and the
remaining two struck the boat's stem close together, completely demolishing the bows and, worst
of all, killing three men.

The launch was now a wreck and sinking.  Smellie, therefore, conceiving it to be our best chance
under the circumstances, gave orders to steer straight for the schooner's main-chains.  We
succeeded in reaching our quarry before the boat sank, and that was all, the launch capsizing
alongside as we sprang from her gunwale to that of the schooner.  Very fortunately for us,
the two cutters had arrived nearly a minute before us, and when we boarded the entire crew
of the schooner was on her forecastle fully occupied in the endeavour to repel their attack.
Taking advantage of this we quietly but rapidly slipped in on deck through her open ports aft,
and then made a furious charge forward, attacking the Spaniards in their rear.  Our presence
on board seemed to take them considerably by surprise.  They wavered and hesitated, but, incited
by a burly ruffian who forced his way through the crowd, rallied once more and attacked us
hotly.  This was exactly what we wanted.  Our fellows, by Smellie's order, contented themselves
with acting for the time being strictly on the defensive, giving way gradually before the impetuous
attack of the Spaniards, and drawing them by degrees away from the forecastle.  A diversion
was thus effected in favour of the cutters' crews, of which they were not slow to avail themselves;
and in less than five minutes after the attack of the launch's crew our entire party had gained
a footing upon the schooner's deck.  Even then the Spanish crew continued to fight desperately,
inflicting several very severe wounds upon our lads, until at last, thoroughly roused by such
obstinacy, the blue-jackets made such a determined charge that they cleared the decks by actually
and literally driving their opponents overboard.  Not that this entailed much loss upon the
Spaniards, however; for they all, or very nearly all, swam either to the brig or the brigantine,
where they were promptly hauled on board.

On our side Smellie lost not a moment in availing himself to the fullest extent of our partial
victory.  He ordered the cutters to be dropped under the schooner's stern, and whilst this
was being done the springs were veered away and hauled upon until the schooner was brought
broadside-on to her former consorts, now her antagonists.  This done our lads went to the guns,
double-shotted them, and succeeded in delivering an awfully destructive raking broadside fore
and aft along the decks of both the brig and the brigantine.  The frightful outcries and the
confusion which ensued on board these craft assured us that our fire had wrought a tremendous
amount of execution among the men crowding their decks; but they were too wise to give us an
opportunity to repeat the dose.  Their springs were promptly manned, and by the time that the
schooner's batteries were again loaded our antagonists had brought their broadsides to bear
upon us.

Once more was our double-shotted broadside hurled upon the foe, and then, before our lads had
time to run-in their guns, we received the combined fire of the brig and the brigantine in
return.  Through the sharp ringing explosion of our antagonists' nine-pounders we distinctly
heard the crashing of the shot through the schooner's timbers, and then--O God!  I shall never
forget it--the piercing shrieks and groans of mortal agony which uprose beneath our feet! 
Not a man of us upon the schooner's decks was injured by that terrible double broadside; for
the Spaniards, resolved to sink the craft, had depressed the muzzles of their guns and sent
their shot through the schooner's sides just above the water-line on the one side and out through
her bottom on the other, regardless of the fact that the vessel's hold was packed full of slaves.
The slaughter which resulted among these unhappy creatures, thus closely huddled together,
I must leave to the reader's imagination--it was simply indescribable.

For a moment all hands of us on board the schooner were struck dumb and motionless with horror
at this act of cowardice and wanton barbarity; then, with a yell of righteous fury our lads
turned again to their guns, which thenceforward were loaded and fired independently, and as
rapidly as possible.  The slavers on their part were not behindhand in alacrity, and presently
we received another broadside from the brig, closely followed by one from the brigantine, the
guns being in both cases aimed as before, with similar murderous results, and with a repetition
of those heart-rending shrieks of agony and despair.

"My God!  I can't bear this!"  I heard Smellie exclaim, as the dying shrieks of the negroes
below again pealed out upon the startled air. "Mr Williams, take half a dozen men below and
free those unhappy blacks.  I don't know whether I am acting prudently or not, but I cannot
leave them chained helplessly down there to be cut to pieces by the shot of those Spanish fiends.
Let them come on deck and take their chance with us.  Some of them at least may possibly effect
their escape, either in the schooner's boats or by swimming to the shore."

Williams lost no time in setting about his perilous work of mercy; and a few minutes after
his disappearance down the main hatchway the unhappy slaves began to make their appearance
on deck, where they first stared in terrified wonder about them, and then crouched down helplessly
on the deck wherever they might happen to find themselves.

In the meantime the cannonade was kept briskly up on both sides, and presently the Spaniards
began to pepper us with musketry in addition. The bullets, fired at short range, flew thickly
about us; and the casualties quickly increased, several of the unfortunate blacks falling victims
to the first discharge.  Seeing this, Smellie ordered the schooner's boats, three in number,
to be lowered and the slaves passed into them.  This was done, our lads leaving the guns for
a few minutes for the purpose; but--will it be credited?  The Spaniards no sooner became aware
of our purpose than they directed their fire upon the boats and their hapless occupants; so
that we were compelled to quickly drag the unhappy blacks back on board the schooner again,
to save them from being ruthlessly slaughtered.  The worst of it was, that though Williams
had succeeded in freeing many of them from the heavy chains with which they were secured together
in the schooner's hold, most of them still wore heavy fetters on their ankles.  These we now
proceeded to knock off as fast as we could, afterwards pitching the poor wretches overboard--
with scant ceremony, I fear--to take their chances of being able to reach the shore.  And during
all this the Spaniards never ceased firing upon us for an instant; so there we were in the
midst of a perfect hailstorm of round-shot and bullets; the air about us thick and suffocating
with the smoke from the guns, our only light the quick intermittent flashes of the cannon and
musketry; the whole atmosphere vibrating with the roar and rattle of the fusillade, the shouts
of the combatants, and the shrieks of the wounded and dying; struggling with the unhappy negroes
who, driven almost frantic with the unwonted sights and sounds around them, seemed quite unable
to comprehend our intentions, and resisted to the utmost our well-meant endeavours to pass
them over the ship's side into the water.

In the midst of all this tumult and confusion we were suddenly confronted by an additional
horror--Williams, badly wounded in the head by a splinter, staggering on deck, closely followed
by his men, with the news that the schooner was rapidly sinking, and that it was impossible
to free any more of the blacks.

I glanced down the hatchway.  Merciful Heaven! shall I ever forget the sight which met my eyes
in that brief glimpse!  The intelligence was only too literally true.  By the dim light of
a horn lantern which Williams had suspended from the beams I could see the black water welling
and bubbling rapidly up from the shot-holes below, and the wretched negroes, still chained
below, surrounded by the mangled corpses of their companions and already immersed to their
chins, with their heads thrown as far back as possible so as to keep their mouths and nostrils
free until the last possible moment, their faces contorted and their eyes protruding from their
sockets with mortal fear.

One of the unhappy creatures was a woman--a mother.  Actuated by that loving and devoted instinct
which constrains all animals to seek the safety of their helpless offspring before their own,
she had raised her infant in her arms as high as possible above the surface of the bubbling
water, and had fixed her dying gaze yearningly upon the little creature's face with an expression
of despairing love which it was truly pitiful to see.  I could not bear it.  The mother was
lost--chained as she was to the submerged deck, nothing could then save her--but the child
might still be preserved.  I sprang down the hatchway and, splashing through the rapidly-rising
water, seized the child, and, as gently as possible, tried to disengage it from the mother's
grasp.  The woman turned her eyes upon me, looked steadfastly at me for a moment as though
she would read my very soul, and then--possibly because she saw the flood of compassion which
was welling up from my heart into my eyes--pressed her child's lips once rapidly and convulsively
to her own already submerged mouth, loosed her grasp upon its body, and with a wild shriek
of bitter anguish and despair threw herself backwards beneath the flood.

My heart was bursting with grief and indignation--grief for the miserable dying wretches around
me, and indignation at our utter inability to prevent such wholesale human suffering.  But
there was no time to lose; the schooner was already settling down beneath our feet, and I saw
that it would very soon be "Every man for himself and God for us all;" so I passed my charge
on deck and quickly followed it myself.

I was just in time to see Smellie spinning the schooner's wheel hard over to port and lashing
it there.  Divining in an instant that he hoped by this manoeuvre to sheer the schooner alongside
the brig, I seized the child I had brought up from below, dropped it into one of our own boats
astern, and then stood by to make a spring for the brig with the rest of our party.  Half a
minute more and the sides of the two ships touched.

"Now, lads, follow me!  Spring for your lives--the schooner is sinking!" I heard Smellie shout;
and away we went--Armitage leading one party forward, and Smellie showing the way to the rest
of them aft.  And, even as we made our spring, the schooner heeled over and sank alongside.

We were met, as before, by so stubborn a resistance that I believe every one of us received
some fresh hurt more or less serious before we actually reached the deck of the brig; but our
lads were by this time fully aroused--neither boarding-nettings nor anything else could any
longer restrain them; and in a few seconds, though more than one poor fellow fell back dead,
we were in possession of the brig, the crew, in obedience to an order from their captain, suddenly
flinging down their weapons and tumbling headlong into their boats, which for some reason--a
reason we were soon to learn--they had lowered into the water.

To our surprise our antagonists, instead of taking refuge on board the brigantine, as we fully
expected they would, took to their oars and pulled in frantic haste up the creek.  In the dense
darkness which now ensued consequent upon the cessation of firing it was impossible to send
a shot after them with any chance of success; and so they were allowed to go free.

The hot pungent fumes which arose through the grating of the brig's main hatchway very convincingly
testified to the presence of slaves on board that craft also; and, warned by his recent experience
on board the schooner, Smellie resolved to warp the brig in alongside the bank and land the
unfortunate creatures before resuming hostilities.  A gang of men was accordingly sent forward
to clear away the necessary warps and so on; and I was directed to go with a boat's crew into
one of the cutters to run the ends of the warps on shore.

The boats, it will be remembered, had been passed astern of the schooner, and there they still
remained uninjured, that craft having settled down in water so shallow that her deck was only
submerged to a depth of about eighteen inches.  In order to reach either of the boats, however,
it was necessary to pass along the deck of the sunken craft; and I was just climbing down the
brig's side to do so--the men having preceded me--when the bulwarks to which I was clinging
suddenly burst outward, the brig's hull was rent open by a tremendous explosion, and, enveloped
for an instant in a sheet of blinding flame, I felt myself whirled upwards and outwards for
a considerable distance, to fall finally, stunned, scorched, and half-blinded, into the agitated
waters of the creek.  Moved more by instinct than anything else I at once struck out mechanically
for the shore.  It was at no great distance from me, and I had almost reached it when some
object--probably a piece of falling wreckage from the dismembered brig--struck me a violent
blow on the back of the head, and I knew no more.

CHAPTER NINE.

DOOMED TO THE TORTURE.

Consciousness at length began, slowly and with seeming reluctance, to return to me; and so
exceedingly disagreeable was the process, that if I could have had my own way just then, I
think I should have preferred to die.  My first sensation was that of excessive stiffness in
every part of my body, with distracting headache.  Then, as my nerves more fully recovered
their functions, ensued a burning fever which scorched my body and sent the blood rushing through
my throbbing veins like a torrent of molten metal.  And finally, as I made an unsuccessful
effort to move, I became aware, first of all by sundry sharp smarting sensations, that I had
been wounded in three or four places; and secondly, by a feeling of severe compression about
the wrists and ankles, that I was bound--a prisoner!

With complete restoration to consciousness my sufferings rapidly grew more acute; and at length,
with a groan of exquisite agony, I opened my eyes and looked about me.

"Where was I?"

Somewhere on shore, evidently.

Overhead was the deep brilliantly blue sky, with the sun, almost in the zenith, darting his
burning beams directly down upon my uncovered head and my upturned face.  Turning my head aside
to escape the dazzling brightness which smote upon my aching eyeballs with a sensation of positive
torture, I discovered that I was lying in about the centre of an extensive forest clearing
of nearly circular shape and about five hundred yards in diameter, hemmed in on all sides by
a dense growth of jungle and forest trees, and carpeted thickly with short verdant grass.

Near me lay the apparently inanimate body of poor Mr Smellie, bound hand and foot, like myself;
and dotted about here and there on the grass, mostly in a sitting posture and also bound, were
some fifteen or twenty negroes, who, from their wretched plight, I conjectured to be survivors
from the sunken slave schooner.  Turning my head in the opposite direction I discovered at
a few yards distance a party of negroes, some fifty in number, much finer-looking and more
athletic men than those in bonds round about me, who, from the weapons they bore, I at once
concluded to be our captors.  This surmise was soon afterwards proved to be correct; for, upon
the completion of the meal which they were busily discussing when I first made them out, they
approached us, and with sufficiently significant gestures gave us to understand that we must
rise and march.

The captive blacks rose to their feet stolidly and without any apparent difficulty; but so
far as I was concerned this was an impossibility, my feet as well as my hands being secured.
One great hulking black fellow, noticing that neither Smellie nor I showed any signs of obedience,
deliberately proceeded to prod us here and there with the point of his spear.  Upon Smellie
these delicate attentions produced no effect whatever, he evidently being either dead or insensible;
but they aroused in me a very lively feeling of indignation, under the influence of which I
launched such a vigorous kick at the unreasonable darky's shins as made him howl with pain
and sent him hopping out of range in double- quick time--a proceeding which raised a hearty
laugh at his expense among his companions.  A moment later, however, he returned, his eyes
sparkling with rage, and would have transfixed me with the light javelin he carried had not
another of the party interfered.  By the order of this last individual Smellie and I were presently
raised from the ground, and each borne by two men, were carried off in the rear of the column
of captive blacks, our captors taking up such positions along the line on either side as effectually
precluded all possibility of escape.

Passing across the open space, we presently plunged into the jungle, traversing a bush-path
just wide enough to allow of two men walking abreast.  I had not much opportunity, however,
for noting any of the incidents of our journey, for, owing to the clumsy way in which I was
being carried, my wounds burst open afresh, and I soon fainted from loss of blood.

When next I recovered consciousness I found that we were afloat, no doubt on the river, though
I had no means of ascertaining this for certain, as I was lying in the bottom of the canoe,
and could see nothing but blue sky beyond either of the gunwales.  Smellie was lying beside
me, and, to my great joy, I found that he was not only alive but a great deal better than I
could have thought possible after witnessing his former desperate condition.  Of course we
at once exchanged congratulations each at the other's escape; and then began to compare notes.
My companion in misfortune had, it seemed, just started to go forward when the explosion occurred
on board the brig; the shock had rendered him unconscious; and when he recovered he found himself
on board the canoe with me beside him.  Poor fellow! he was in a sad plight.  He was severely
wounded in no less than four different parts of his body; his face and hands were badly scorched;
his clothing--about which he was always very particular--hung upon him in tatters; and lastly,
he was greatly distressed in mind at the disastrous failure of the expedition, at the fearfully
heavy casualties which we knew had befallen the attacking party, and at the extreme probability
that those casualties had been very largely increased by the blowing up of the brig.  I said
what I could to comfort him, but, alas! that was not much; and it was a relief to us both to
change the subject, even though we naturally turned at once to the discussion of our own problematical
future.

The craft in which we found ourselves was a war-canoe, about sixty feet long and five feet
beam, manned by about forty of our captors, who sat two abreast close to the gunwales, paddling
vigorously; the negro prisoners, as well as ourselves, being stowed along the middle of the
canoe, fore and aft.  A fresh fair breeze was blowing, and full advantage was being taken of
this circumstance, a huge mat sail being hoisted on the craft which must inevitably have capsized
her had it happened to jibe.  From the sharp rushing sound of the water along the sides and
bottom of the canoe, and the swift strokes of the paddles, I judged that we must be travelling
through the water at a rapid rate, a conjecture the truth of which was afterwards very disagreeably
verified. We sped on thus until sunset, when the sail was suddenly lowered and with loud shouts,
which were re-echoed from the shore, the canoe's course was altered, the craft grounding a
few minutes afterwards on a beach where all hands of us landed.

Smellie and I were by this time quite able to walk, but before we could set foot to the ground
a couple of stalwart blacks were told off to each of us, and we were carried along as before.
On this occasion, however, our journey was but a short one, not more, perhaps, than five or
six hundred yards altogether.  Arrived, apparently, at our destination, we were set down, and
immediately bound with llianos or monkey-rope to the bole of a huge tree.  Looking about us,
we discovered that we were in a native village of considerable size, built in a semicircular
shape, having in its centre a structure of considerable architectural pretensions in a barbaric
sort of way, which structure we conjectured-- from the presence of a hideous idol in front
of it--must be a sort of temple.  Looking about us still further, we noticed that the remainder
of the prisoners were being bound to trees like ourselves.  There was a peculiarity about the
disposition of the prisoners which I certainly did not like; there might be no motive for it,
but it struck me that our being ranged in a semicircle in front of this idol had a rather sinister
appearance.

Having secured the prisoners to their satisfaction, our captors left us; and we were speedily
surrounded by a curious crowd consisting chiefly of women and children, who came and stared
persistently with open-mouthed curiosity at the captives, and especially at Smellie and myself,
greatly attracted by the apparently novel sight of our white skins.  The old women were, for
the most part, hideously ugly, wrinkled, and bent, their grizzled wool plastered with grease
and dirt, and their bodies positively encrusted with filth.  The young women, on the other
hand-- those, that is to say, whose ages seemed to range between thirteen and sixteen or seventeen--were
by no means destitute of personal attractions, which--to do them justice--they exhibited with
the most boundless liberality.  They were all possessed of plump well-made figures; their limbs
were, in many cases, very finely moulded; they had an upright graceful carriage; the expression
of their features was amiable and gentle; and, notwithstanding their rather prominent lips,
a few of them were actually pretty.

One of these damsels, a perfect little sable Hebe, seemed to be greatly attracted by us, walking
round and round the tree to which we were secured--first at a respectful distance, and then
nearer and nearer. Finally, after studying our countenances intently for nearly a minute, she
boldly approached and laid her finger upon my cheek, apparently to ascertain whether or no
it was genuine flesh and blood.  Satisfied that it was so, she backed off to take another look
at us, and I thought an expression of pity overspread her face.  Finally she addressed us.
We were, of course, quite unable to understand the words she uttered, but her actions, graceful
as they were, were significant enough; she was evidently asking whether we were hungry or thirsty.
To this inquiry Smellie nodded a prompt affirmative, which I backed up with the single word
"Rather," uttered so expressively that I am certain she quite understood me.  At all events,
she tripped lightly away, returning in a few minutes with a small finely-woven basket containing
about two quarts of fresh palm-juice, which she presented first to Smellie's lips, and then
to mine.  Need I say that, between us, we emptied it?  Our hostess laughed gaily as she glanced
at the empty basket, evidently pleased at the success of her attempt to converse with us; and
then, with a reassuring word or two, she tripped away again.  Only to return, however, about
a quarter of an hour later, with the same basket, filled this time with a kind of porridge,
which, though not particularly tasty, was acceptable enough after our long fast.  This, our
fair, or rather our dark friend administered to us alternately by means of a flat wooden spatula.
This feeding process had not passed, it need hardly be said, unobserved; and by the time that
our meal was concluded quite a large audience of women had gathered round to witness the performance.
The animated jabber and hearty ringing laughter of several of the younger women and the somewhat
abashed yet pleased expression of our own particular friend seemed to indicate that badinage
was not altogether unknown, even in this obscure African village.  But everything of that kind
was brought abruptly to an end by a loud discordant blowing of horns and the hollow tub, tub,
tub of a number of rude drums; at which sounds the crowd around us broke up at once and retired,
our little Hebe casting back at us more than one glance strongly indicative, as it seemed to
me, of compassion.

A fire had been kindled in front of the idol, or fetish, during the feeding process above referred
to, and now that the curious crowd of women and girls who then surrounded us had retired we
were able to see a little more of what was going on.  The horn-blowing and drum-beating emanated
from a group of entirely naked savages who were marching in a kind of procession round the
idol.  This ceremony lasted about ten minutes, when another negro made his appearance upon
the scene, emerging from the temple, if such it actually was, bearing in his hands a queer-
looking construction, the nature of which I was at first unable to distinguish.  After marching
solemnly round the idol three times this individual seated himself tailor-fashion before it,
laid the instrument on his knees, and began to hammer upon it with a couple of sticks; whereupon
we became aware that he was playing upon a rude imitation of a child's harmonicon, the keys
of which appeared to be constructed of hard wood, out of which he managed to beat a very fair
specimen of barbaric music.  This music seemed to be the overture to some impending entertainment;
for upon the sound of the first notes the inhabitants began to pour out of their huts and to
gather in a promiscuous crowd round the giant tree-stump upon which the hideous fetish was
mounted. When the gathering was apparently complete the music ceased, the drumming and horn-blowing
burst out afresh, and the crowd immediately divided into two sections, the smaller, and I presume
the more select division squatting on the ground in a semicircle in front of the image, whilst
the remainder of the inhabitants ranged themselves into two quadrants about thirty feet apart,
one on each side and in front of their deity.  Through this open space between the two quadrants
it appeared probable that we should obtain a very good, if rather distant view of the ceremonies
which were evidently about to take place.

The audience having arranged themselves in position, the horn-blowing ceased, and the musicians
stepped inside the inner circle and seated themselves to the right and left of the fetish.
A pause of perhaps a couple of minutes ensued, and then horns, drums, and harmonicon suddenly
burst out with a loud confused fantasia, each man apparently doing his utmost to drown the
noise of the others.  Louder and louder blared the horns; the drummers pounded upon their long
narrow drums until it seemed as though at every stroke the drum-heads must inevitably be beaten
in; whilst the harmonicon-man hammered away at his instrument with a vigour and rapidity which
must have been truly gratifying to his friends.

In the midst of this wild hullabaloo a blood-curdling yell rang out upon the still night air,
and from the open door of the temple or fetish- house there bounded into the inner circle a
most extraordinary figure, clad from head to heel in monkey skins, his head adorned with a
coronet of beads and feathers, a bead necklace round his neck, a living snake encircling his
waist as a girdle, and bearing in his hand a red and black wand about four feet long.

Upon the appearance of this individual the uproar suddenly ceased, then the maestro who presided
at the harmonicon struck up a low accompaniment, and the last comer burst into a subdued monotonous
chant, pointing and gesticulating from time to time with his wand.

I watched the proceedings with a great deal of interest, and was beginning to wonder what would
happen next, when Smellie turned to me and quietly asked:

"Mr Hawkesley, do you ever say your prayers?"

"Sir?"  I ejaculated in unutterable surprise at so impertinent a question, as it seemed to me.

"I asked whether you ever said your prayers: I ought to have said, rather, do you ever pray?
There is often a very great difference between the two acts," he returned quietly.

"Well--ah--yes--that is--certainly, sir, I do," stammered I.

"Then," said Smellie, "let me recommend you to pray now--to pray with all the earnestness and
sincerity of which you are capable.  Make your peace with God, if you have not already done
so, whilst you have the opportunity, for, unless I am very greatly mistaken, it is our doom
to die to-night."

I was so shocked, so completely knocked off my balance, by this unlooked-for communication,
that, for the moment I lost all power of speech, my tongue clave to the roof of my mouth, and
I could only stare at my fellow-prisoner in horrified incredulity.

"My poor boy," he said compassionately, "I am afraid I have spoken to you too abruptly.  I
ought to have prepared you gradually for so momentous a piece of intelligence, to have broken
the news to you. But, there, what matters?  You are a plucky lad, Hawkesley--your conduct last
night abundantly proved that--and I am sure that, if the occasion should come, you will stand
up and face death in the presence of these savages as an Englishman should; I am not afraid
of that.  But, my dear boy, are you prepared to die?  Are you in a fit state to meet your God?
You are very young, quite a lad in fact, and a good lad too; you cannot yet have erred very
grievously.  Thoughtless, careless, indifferent you may have been, but your conscience can
hardly charge you with any very serious offence, I should think; and you may therefore well
hope for pardon and mercy.  Seek both at once, my dear boy."

"But--Mr Smellie--I--I don't understand; you don't appear to be afraid or--or disturbed at--the
near prospect of death."

"No," he replied, raising his eyes heavenward for a moment; "no, thank God, I am not afraid.
My mother--" his lips quivered, his voice faltered and almost broke for an instant, and by
the red glare of the fire I saw the tears well up into his eyes as he spoke that revered name.
But he steadied himself again directly, and went on--"my dear mother taught me to be ready
for death at any moment; taught me so lovingly and so thoroughly that I can regard with perfect
calmness to- night, as I have a score of times before, the approach of the Last Enemy.  But
let us not waste the precious moments in conversation.  Time soon will be for us no more; and--ah!
see, there comes the vile high- priest of a loathsome idolatry to claim his first victim. 
Should you by any chance escape the coming horrors of this night, Hawkesley, and live to reach
England once more, seek out my mother--Austin will instruct you as to where she may be found--and
tell her that her son died as she would wish him to die, a sincere Christian.  I am to be the
first victim it would appear.  Farewell, my dear boy!  God bless you, and grant us a happy
meeting at His right hand on the last Great Day!"

I strove in vain to reply to his solemnly affectionate farewell.  I wanted to let him know
how inexpressibly precious to me were the few words of exhortation and encouragement he had
spoken; to say were it only a single word to cheer his last moments with the assurance that
he had not spoken in vain; but my emotion was too great.  I felt that in the effort to speak
I should inevitably burst into tears, and so, perhaps, unman him, and disgrace him and myself
in the eyes of these inhuman savages.  So, perforce, I held my peace, and watched with a wildly-beating
heart to see how a brave man should die.

In the meantime the fetish-man had concluded his chant, and, in the midst of a breathless silence
on the part of his audience, stood looking intently round the circle at the group of prisoners
secured to the trees.  He glanced keenly at each of us in turn, and at length pointed his wand
straight at Smellie.  It was this action which caused the second lieutenant to announce to
me his belief that it was he who was to be the first victim of the impending sacrificial ceremony.
Keeping his wand pointed directly at my companion, the uncouth figure slowly and with a quite
undescribable undulatory dancing motion, advanced toward our tree, the crowd hastily making
way for him, and four members of the inner circle rising to their feet and following him at
a touch from his finger.

Overcoming by a strong effort the horrible fascination which this loathsome wretch exercised
over me, I turned to look at my companion.

He seemed to be utterly unconscious of his surroundings.  His eyes were raised to heaven, his
lips moved from time to time, and it was manifest that he was holding the most solemn and momentous
communion which it is possible for man to hold even with his Maker.  Pale, haggard, and worn
with mental and physical suffering, his crisp brown curly hair stiff and matted with blood,
his face streaked with ensanguined stains, and his scorched clothing hanging about him in blood-stained
rags, I nevertheless thought it would be difficult to picture a more perfect embodiment of
a good, noble, and brave man.

Slowly and sinuously, like a serpent stealing upon his prey, the fetish- man or witch-doctor
advanced until he stood within a yard of his intended victim, with the fatal wand still pointing
straight at Smellie's breast.  He stood thus for a full minute or more, seemingly striving
to wring from the bound and helpless prisoner some sign of panic or at least of discomposure.
In vain.  His last most solemn act of duty done, Smellie at length turned his eyes upon those
of his enemy, regarding him with a gaze so calmly steadfast, so palpably devoid of fear, that
the savage, mortified at his utter failure, suddenly, with an exclamation unmistakably indicative
of rage and chagrin, dropped the point of his wand, to raise it again instantly and direct
it toward my breast.

But the cool intrepidity which I had just witnessed was contagious; in my sublime admiration
of it my soul soared far above and beyond the reach of so debasing a feeling as fear, and in
my turn I met the cruel sinister gaze of the crafty savage with one as calm as Smellie's own.

For perhaps a full minute--it may have been more, it may have been less; it is difficult to
estimate the lapse of time under such trying circumstances--the fetish-man did his best to
disconcert me; then, baffled once more, with a furious and threatening gesture he passed on
to the next prisoner.

"We are reprieved for the time being," said Smellie, as the gesticulating witch-doctor and
his myrmidons passed on, "but only to become the victims of a more refined and protracted torture
at last. Having failed to exhibit any signs of fear in the first instance we are spared to
witness the cumulative sufferings of those who are to precede us, in order that by the sight
of their exquisite torments our courage may be quelled by the anticipation of our own.  I imagine,
from what I have read of the customs of this people, that we are about to witness and become
participants in a ceremony undertaken to avert or remove some great calamity--a ceremony involving
the sacrifice of many victims, each of whom is put to death with more refined barbarity than
that dealt out to the victim preceding him.  Ah! see there--a worthy victim has at last been
found with which to begin the sacrifice."

I looked in the direction his eyes indicated, and, sure enough, the light but fatal stroke
with the wand was just in the act of being struck upon the naked breast of one of the negro
prisoners.  As the blow fell a loud shriek of despair rang out from the lips of the wretched
man; the fetish-man's four assistants sprang upon their prey, his bonds were cut, and in another
moment he was dragged, struggling desperately and shrieking with mortal fear, into the inner
circle and up to the broad tree-stump which supported the fetish or idol.

In the meantime the fire had been bountifully replenished with wood and now blazed up fiercely.
By its ruddy light I saw the fetish-man retire to the interior of the temple or fetish-house,
to appear immediately afterwards with a rude stone hammer in one hand and what looked like
four or five large spike-nails in the other.  He stood for a moment gloating over the agonised
countenance of his victim, and then nodded his head.  At the signal his four assistants seized
their prisoner, and, despite his terrible struggles, rapidly placed him, head downwards, with
his back against the tree-stump, and his limbs extended as far as they would go round it, when
the fetish-man proceeded with cruel deliberation to secure him in position by nailing him there,
the spikes taken from the fetish-house being used for the purpose.

The horns, drums, and harmonicon now broke forth afresh into a hideous clamour, which, however,
was powerless to drown the dismal shrieks of the victim; and the fetish-man, arming himself
with a large broad-bladed and most murderous-looking knife, began to dance slowly, with most
extraordinary contortions of visage and body, round the idol.  Gradually his gyrations grew
more rapid, his gestures more extravagant; the knife was flourished in the air in an increasingly
threatening manner, and at length, as the weird dancer whirled rapidly round the tree-stump,
the weapon was at each revolution plunged ruthlessly into the writhing body of the hapless
victim, the utmost care being taken, I noticed, to avoid any vital part.  Finally, when the
dancer had apparently danced himself into a frenzy--when his gyrations had become so rapid
that it almost made me giddy to look at him, and when his contortions of body grew so extravagant
that it was difficult to say whether he was dancing on his head or on his heels--there flashed
a sudden lightning-like gleam of the knife, and the head of the miserable victim fell to the
ground, to be snatched up instantly and, with still twitching features, nailed between the
feet of the body.

A loud murmur of applause from the spectators greeted this effort of the fetish-man, in the
midst of which he retired for a few minutes to the interior of the fetish-house, probably to
recruit his somewhat exhausted energies.

CHAPTER TEN.

A FIENDISH CEREMONIAL.

"Now," said Smellie as he turned once more to me, "we shall probably be again threatened on
the reappearance of that bloodthirsty villain.  But whatever you do, Hawkesley, maintain a
bold front; let him see no sign or trace whatever of weakness or discomposure in you.  The
fellow's thirst for blood is by this time fully aroused, and every succeeding victim will be
subjected to greater refinements of torture; all that diabolical scoundrel's fiendish ingenuity
will now be exercised to devise for his victims increasingly atrocious and protracted agonies.
There is one, and only one hope for us, which is that by a persistent refusal to be terrorised
by him, and a judiciously scornful demeanour, we may at last exasperate him out of his self-control,
and thus provoke him into inflicting upon us the coup-de-grace at once and without any of the
preliminary torments.  Here he comes again.  Now, for your own sake, dear lad, remember and
act upon my advice."

The first act of the wretch was to despatch his four assistants into the forest, whence they
returned in a short time with three long slender poles and a considerable quantity of creeper
or monkey-rope.  With these, under the fetish-man's superintendence, a very tolerable set of
light shears was speedily constructed, which, when finished, was erected immediately over the
fire--now an immense mass of glowing smokeless cinders--in front of the idol.  The entire arrangement
was so unmistakably suggestive that I could not restrain a violent shudder as it occurred to
me that it might possibly be my fate to be subjected to the fiery torment.

All being ready, a dead silence once more fell upon the assembly, and the chief actor in the
inhuman ceremonial once more looked keenly around him for a victim.

As in the first instance, so now again was the wand pointed at Smellie's breast, and once more
the cruel crafty bearer of it advanced on tip-toe with a stealthy cat-like tread toward us.
He approached thus until he had reached to within about ten feet of the tree, when he once
more paused in front of us, gesticulating with the wand and making as though about to strike
with it the light blow which seemed to be the stroke of doom, keenly watching all the while
for some sign of trepidation on the part of his victim.  Then, whilst the wretch was in the
very midst of his fantastic genuflexions before us, Smellie turned to me with a smile and observed:

"Just picture to yourself, Hawkesley, the way in which that fellow would be made to jump if
Tom Collins, the boatswain's mate, could only approach him from behind now, and freshen his
way with just one touch of his `cat.'"

There was perhaps not much in it; but the picture thus suggested to my abnormally excited imagination
seemed so supremely ridiculous that I incontinently burst into a violent and uncontrollable
fit of hysterical laughter (the precise effect which I afterwards ascertained Smellie was anxious
to produce); so highly exasperating the fetish-man that, with eyes fairly sparkling with rage,
he advanced and struck me a violent blow on the mouth with his filthy hand, passing on immediately
afterwards to seek elsewhere for a victim.

He had not far to seek; the miserable wretch next me on my left was so paralysed with fear
that he was deemed a fit and proper person to become the next sacrifice, and almost unresistingly--until
resistance was all too late--he was dragged forward into the inner circle, thrown flat upon
his stomach, and his hands and feet bound securely together behind him. Then, indeed, he seemed
suddenly to awake to a sense of his horrid fate; and his superhuman struggles for freedom and
his ear-splitting yells were simply dreadful beyond all description to see and hear.  The fetish-man
and his assistants, confident of the reliable character of their work, stood back and looked
on quietly at the miserable wretch's unavailing struggles; they seemed to be regarded as quite
a part of the entertainment, and the unhappy creature was allowed to continue them unmolested
until they ceased from exhaustion.  Then, when he lay quite still, panting and breathless,
with his eyes starting from their sockets and the perspiration streaming from every pore, the
fetish-man approached him and deftly bending on to his fettered limbs an end of stout monkey-rope,
he was dragged along the ground into the fire, and thence triced in an instant up to the shears,
whence he hung suspended at the height of about a foot immediately over the glowing embers.

The miserable sufferer bore the torment as long as he could, and I shall never forget the awful
sight his distorted features presented as, drawing back his head as far as he could from the
fierce heat, he glared round the circle seeking perchance for a hand merciful enough to put
him out of his misery--but after the first minute of suffering his stoicism abandoned him,
and he writhed so violently that the fetish-man and his assistants had to steady the shears
in order to prevent them from capsizing altogether.  And with every writhe of the victim the
slender poles bent and gave, letting the miserable sufferer sink down some three or four inches
nearer the fire.  The superhuman struggles, the frightful contortions and writhings of the
man, his ear-splitting yells, the horrible smell of roasting flesh--oh, God! it was awful beyond
all attempt at description.  I pray that I may never look upon such a ghastly sight again.

The fiendish exhibition had probably reached its most appalling phase, and I was wondering,
shudderingly, what form of torture could possibly exceed it in cruelty, when there was a sudden
slight movement of my bonds; they slackened and fell away from the tree-trunk against which
I leaned, and I was free.  Not a moment was allowed me in which to get over the first shock
of my bewilderment; a soft plump hand grasped mine and gently drew me round behind the tree,
so rapidly that I had only time to note the fact that apparently every eye in the assembly
was fixed upon the writhing figure suspended over the fire--and before I had fairly realised
what was happening I found myself a dozen yards away from my starting-point, gliding rapidly
and noiselessly through the deep shadows cast by the tree-trunks, towards the outer darkness
which prevailed beyond the range of the fire-light; with our little black Hebe friend of a
few hours before dragging me along on one side of her and Smellie on the other.

Five minutes later we had left the village so far behind us that the barbarous sounds of horn
and drum, mingled with the yells of anguish from the tortured victim, momentarily becoming
more and more softened by our increasing distance, were the sole evidences that remained to
us of its existence, and we found ourselves hurrying along through the rank grass, threading
the mazes of the park-like clumps of lofty timber, and forcing a passage through the thickly
clustering festoons of parasitic orchids, under the subdued light of the mellow stars alone.

With almost breathless rapidity our tender-hearted little deliverer hurried us forward, frequently
exclaiming in low urgent accents, "Zola- ku! zola-ku," so expressively uttered that we had
no difficulty in interpreting the words to mean that there was the most extreme necessity for
rapid movement on our part.  We accordingly hastened our steps to the utmost limit of our capacity,
and in about ten minutes from the moment of our liberation emerged upon a long narrow strip
of sandy beach, with the noble river sweeping grandly to seaward before us.  Here our guide
paused for a moment, apparently pondering as to what it would next be best to do.  Glancing
down the river I saw indistinctly, at about two hundred yards distance, some shapeless objects
which I took to be canoes drawn up on the beach, and pointing to them I exclaimed to Smellie:

"Are not those canoes?  If they are, what is to prevent our seizing one and making our way
down the river without further ado?"

Our little Hebe glanced in the direction I had indicated, and seemed quite to understand the
nature of my suggestion, for she shook her head violently and exclaimed rapidly in accents
of very decided dissent, "Ve! Ve!!  Ve!!!" pointing at the same time to Smellie's and my own
untended wounds.

At that moment a loud confused shouting arose in the distant village, strongly suggestive of
the discovery of our flight.  The sounds apparently helped our guide to a decision as to her
next step, for, seizing our hands afresh, she led us straight into the river until the water
was up to our knees, and then turned sharply to the right or up stream.  Pressing forward rapidly,
our way freshened very decidedly by unmistakable shouts of pursuit emanating from the neighbourhood
of the village, we reached, after about a quarter of an hour of arduous toil, a small creek
some forty yards wide.  Pausing here for a moment, our guide made with her hands and arms the
motion of swimming, pointed across the creek, touched Smellie on the breast with the query
"Yenu?" and then rapidly repeated the same process with me.  We took this to mean an inquiry
as to our ability to swim the creek, and both replied "Yes" with affirmative nods.  Whereupon
our guide, raising her finger to express the necessity for extreme caution, and uttering a
warning "Ngandu" as she next pointed to the waters of the creek, waded gently and without raising
a ripple into the deep water, Smellie and I following, and with a few quiet strokes we happily
reached the other side in safety, to plunge forthwith into the friendly shadows of the forest.
Had we known then--what we learned afterwards--that the word "Ngandu" is Congoese for "crocodile,"
and that it was uttered as an intimation to us that the river and its creeks literally swarm
with these reptiles, it is possible that our swim, short though it was, would not have been
undertaken with quite so much composure.

Once fairly in the forest, it became so dark that it was quite impossible for us to see whither
we were going, but our guide seemed to be well acquainted with the route, which, from the comparatively
few obstacles met with, seemed to be a tolerably well-beaten path, so we crowded sail and pressed
along with tolerable rapidity behind the slender black and almost indistinguishable figure
of our leader.  The pursuit, too, was hotly maintained, as we could tell by the occasional
shouts and the sudden swishings of branches at no great distance from us in the bush; but at
length, after a most wearisome and painful tramp of fully nine miles, we got fairly out of
reach of all these sounds, and finally, at a sign from our deliverer, flung ourselves down
in the midst of a thick growth of ferns at the foot of a giant tree, and, despite the increasing
anguish of our wounds, soon went to sleep.

We awoke at daybreak, to find ourselves alone: our guide of the previous night had vanished.
We were greatly disconcerted at this, for we felt that we should like to have done something--though
we scarcely knew what--to mark our appreciation of her extremely important services of the
preceding night.  Besides, somehow, we had both taken the notion into our heads that in liberating
us, she had committed an unpardonable sin against her former friends, and that when she crossed
the creek and plunged into the forest with us she was virtually cutting herself adrift from
her own people and casting in her lot with us.  In which case, if we should succeed in making
good our escape and finding our way back to the ship, we had little doubt about our ability
to make such arrangements on her behalf as should cause her to rejoice for the remainder of
her life at having befriended us.  However, it seemed as though, having conducted us to a place
of temporary safety, she had returned to the village, doubtless hoping to escape all suspicion
of having had a hand in our liberation.

It was a glorious morning.  The sun was darting his early beams through the richly variegated
foliage, and touching here and there with gold the giant trunks and limbs of the forest trees.
The earth around us was thickly carpeted with long grass interspersed with dense fern-brakes,
and here and there a magnificent clump of aloes, their long waxy leaves and delicate white
blossoms standing out in strong relief against the blaze of intense scarlet or the rich vivid
green of a neighbouring bush. The early morning air was cool, pure, and refreshing as it gently
fanned our fevered temples and wafted to us a thousand delicate perfumes.  The birds, glancing
like living gems between the clumps of foliage, were saluting each other blithely as they set
out upon their diurnal quest for food.  The bees were already busy among the gorgeous flowers;
butterflies--more lovely even than the delicate blossoms above which they poised themselves--flitted
merrily about from bough to bough; all nature, in fact, was rejoicing at the advent of a new
day.  And ill, suffering though we were, we could not but in some measure take part in the
general joy, as with hearts overflowing with gratitude we remembered that we had escaped the
horrors of the previous night.

A glance or two about us and we scrambled to our feet, intent, in the first instance, upon
an immediate search for water.  We had just settled the question as to which direction seemed
most promising for the commencement of our quest when a clear musical call floated toward us,
and looking in the direction from whence it came, we beheld our black Hebe approaching us,
dragging a small dead antelope by the heels after her.  So she had not abandoned us after all;
on the contrary, she had probably spent a good part of the night arranging for the capture
of the creature which was to furnish us with a breakfast.

On joining us she held up her prize for our inspection, and then, with a joyous laugh at our
approving remarks--at the meaning of which she could, of course, only make the roughest of
guesses--she set to work deftly to clear away and lay bare a space upon which to start a fire,
in which task, as soon as we saw what she wanted, we assisted her to the best of our poor ability.
This done, she went groping about beneath the trees apparently in search of something; soon
returning with two pieces of dry stick, one of which, I noticed, had a hole in it.  A quantity
of dry leaves and sticks was next collected, having arranged which to her satisfaction, she
knelt down, and inserting the pointed end of one stick in the hole of the other, twirled it
rapidly between the palms of her hands, producing by the friction thus set up, first a slight
wreath of smoke, and ultimately a tiny flame, which was carefully communicated to the dry leaves,
and then gently fanned by her breath into a blaze.  And in this way a capital fire for cooking
purposes was speedily obtained.

In the meantime Smellie and I had produced our knives and had undertaken to skin and cut up
the animal, some juicy steaks from which were soon spluttering on pointed sticks before the
fire.  The cooking operations being thus put in satisfactory progress, our little black friend
borrowed my knife and plunged once more into the forest depths, to return again shortly afterwards
with a huge gourd full of deliciously clear cool water.

The antelope steaks were by this time ready, and we all sat down to breakfast together.  For
my own part, I must say I thoroughly enjoyed the meal; but I was sorry to observe that Smellie
ate with but little appetite, drinking large quantities of water, however.  The poor fellow
made no complaint, but I could tell by his haggard look, his flushed cheeks, and his glittering
eyes that it was quite time his wounds were attended to, or we should be having him down with
fever in the bush, and then Heaven alone could tell when we should--if ever--be able to rejoin
the Daphne.

But we were not to be allowed to sink tamely into a state of despondency or apprehension; our
sable lady friend proved to be, like the rest of her sex, a great talker, and she seized the
opportunity afforded by the discussion of breakfast to plunge into an animated conversation.
She began by introducing herself, which she managed in quite an original fashion.  Pausing
for a moment, with a piece of steak poised daintily on a large thorn, she pointed to herself
and remarked "Mono;" then touched Smellie and me lightly on the breast and added "Ingeya;"
"Ingeya."  We nodded gravely to signify that we understood, or thought we did; upon which she
pointed to herself once more and observed, "Mono Lubembabemba."

"Which, being interpreted, means, as I take it, that her ladyship's name is Lubem by--something.
Your most obedient servant, Miss Lubin by--"

She laughed a very pretty musical little laugh at Smellie's elaborate assumption of mock gallantry
and his bungling efforts to pronounce the name.

"Lubem-ba-bemba," she corrected him; and this time the gallant second lieutenant managed to
stumble through it correctly, at which there was more laughter and rejoicing on the lady's
part.  Then I was called upon to repeat the name, which, having paid the most praiseworthy
attention whilst Smellie was receiving his lesson, I managed to do very fairly.

Then, flushed with her success, Miss Lubembabemba made a further attempt at conversation. 
Pointing to herself and repeating her name, she next pointed to Smellie and asked:

"Ingeya?"

Her meaning was so evident that Smellie answered at once, with another elaborate bow:

"Harold Smellie; at your service."

"Halold-smellie-at-o-serveece!" she repeated with wide-opened eyes of wonder at what she doubtless
thought a very extraordinary name.

We both burst involuntarily into a laugh at this really clever first attempt to reproduce the
second lieutenant's polite speech; at which she first looked decidedly disconcerted, but immediately
afterwards joined heartily in the laugh against herself.

"No, no, no," said Smellie, "that won't do; you haven't got it quite right Harold; Harold."

"Halold?" she repeated.  And after two or three attempts to put her right--attempts which failed
from her evident inability to pronounce the "r"--Smellie was obliged to rest content with being
henceforward called "Halold."

Then, of course, she turned to me with the same inquiry:

"Ingeya!"

"Dick," said I.

This time she caught the name accurately, and then, to show that she clearly understood the
whole proceeding, pointed to Smellie, to me, and to herself in rotation, pronouncing our respective
names.

"Yes," commented Smellie approvingly, "you have learned your lesson very well indeed, my dear;
but we shall never be able to remember that extraordinary name of yours--Lubemba--what is it--you
know; besides, it will take us a dog-watch to pronounce it in full; so I propose that we change
it and re-christen you after the ship, eh?  Call you `Daphne,' you know.  How would you like
that?  You--Daphne; I--Halold, since you will have it so; and this strapping young gentleman,
Dick.  Would that suit you?  Daphne--Halold--Dick;" pointing to each of us in turn.

Her ladyship seemed to take the proposal as a tremendous compliment, for her face lighted up
with pleasure, and she kept on pointing round the circle and repeating "Halold--Dick--Daphne"
until breakfast was concluded.  And thenceforward she refused to answer to any other name than
Daphne, assuming an air of the most complete unconsciousness when either of us presumed to
address her as "Lubembabemba" (the butterfly).

Breakfast over, I thought it was high time to attend to our wounds.  The first requirement
was water--plenty of it, and this want I managed with some little difficulty to explain to
Miss Daphne.  Comprehending my meaning at last she intimated that a stream was to be found
at no great distance; and we at once set off in search of it, our little black friend carrying
along with her a live ember from the fire, which, by waving it occasionally in the air, she
managed to keep glowing.

We had not very far to go--most fortunately, for I saw that Smellie's wounds were momentarily
giving him increased uneasiness and pain.  A walk of about a quarter of an hour took us to
a sequestered and most delightful spot, where we were not only perfectly concealed from chance
wanderers, but where we also found a small rocky basin full of deliciously cool and pure water,
which flowed into it from a tiny stream meandering down the steep hill-side.  In this basin
we laved our hurts until they were thoroughly cleansed from the dry hard coagulated blood,
and then we set about the task of bandaging them up.  Daphne, who, by the way, seemed to have
little or no idea of surgery, made herself of great use to us in the bathing process, when
once she understood what was required; but when it came to bandaging she found herself unable
to help us further, and sorrowfully confessed herself beaten.  We were compelled to convert
our shirts, the only linen in our possession, into bandages; and poor Daphne, to her evident
extreme sorrow, had no linen to sacrifice to our necessities, or indeed any clothing at all
to speak of.  The costume of a Congoese belle, according to her rendering of it, was a petticoat
of parti-coloured bead fringe about twelve inches deep, depending loosely from the hips; the
rest of her clothing consisting entirely--as Mike Flanaghan would have said--of jewellery,
of which she wore a considerable quantity.  I may as well here enumerate her ornaments, for
the information and benefit of those who have never enjoyed the acquaintance of an African
beauty.  In the first place she wore a circular band of metal, about two inches wide, round
her head and across her forehead.  This band, or coronet, had a plain border of about half
an inch wide, and inside this border, for about an inch in width throughout its length, the
metal was cut away in very fine lines, forming an intricate and really elegant lace-like pattern.
Then she wore also a very large pair of circular ear-rings, similarly ornamented, these ornaments
being so large and heavy that they had actually stretched the lobes, and so spoiled the shape
of what would otherwise have been a very pretty pair of ears.  Upon each of her plump, finely-
shaped arms, between the shoulder and the elbow, she wore four or five massive armlets of peculiar
but by no means unskilled workmanship; and lastly, round each ankle she wore a single anklet
of similar workmanship.  On the previous night, when this rather lavish display of jewellery
had first attracted my casual notice, I had imagined it to be brass; but now, seeing it again
in the full light of day, I discovered it to be gold, almost or quite pure, as I judged from
its softness.

To return to our subject Daphne's first task on our arrival at the pool had been to kindle
another fire; and, after helping us as far as she could to doctor our wounds, she next undertook
an exploration of the forest in our immediate neighbourhood, returning in about an hour's time
with three long, thin, straight shafts of a kind of bamboo, and three small uprooted saplings.
These articles she forthwith plunged into the fire, and after an hour's diligent work manipulated
the bamboos into three very effective lances or javelins, and the saplings into three truly
formidable clubs, the knotted roots being charred and trimmed until they formed rounded heads
as large as one's two fists put together.  One of each of these weapons she presented both
to Smellie and to me, retaining one of each for herself; and thus armed, we were ready to set
out once more upon our travels.  But it was high time that our wanderings should be conducted
with something like method.  Our object was, of course, to rejoin the ship with the least possible
delay; and before making a fresh start Smellie thought it would be just as well to acquaint
our companion with this our desire.  He accordingly undertook to do so, and a very amusing
scene resulted; but he succeeded at last in making his wish clearly understood, and this achieved
we once more resumed our march.

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

FAITHFUL UNTO DEATH.

By the time that we were finally ready to start it was about noon, and the heat had become
intensely oppressive.  The refreshing zephyrs of the morning had died completely away, and
the motionless atmosphere, rarefied by the burning rays of the sun, was all a-quiver.  Not
a beast, bird, or insect was stirring throughout the whole length and breadth of the far-stretching
forest aisles.  The grass, the flowers, the leaves of the trees, the graceful festoons of parasitic
creepers, were all as still as though cut out of iron.  The stagnant air was saturated to oppressiveness
with a thousand mingled perfumes; and not a sound of any kind broke in upon the death-like
stillness of the scene.  It was Nature's silent hour, the hour of intensest heat; that short
interval about noon when all living things appear to retire into the most sheltered nooks--the
darkest, coolest shadows; the one hour out of the twenty-four when absolute, unbroken silence
reigns throughout the African forest.

Under Daphne's leadership we struck off on a westerly course through the green shadows of the
forest, and toiled laboriously forward until the dusky twilight warned us of the necessity
for seeking a resting-place wherein to pass the coming night.  This was found at length in
the centre of a wide clearing or break in the forest; and Smellie and I, at Daphne's expressively--conveyed
pantomimic suggestion, forthwith set about gathering the wherewithal to build a fire, whilst
the damsel herself undertook the task of providing a supper for the party.  Our task was barely
completed when her dusky ladyship returned with three grey parrots and a pair of green pigeons,
as well as a large gourd of water, from which we eventually managed to make a very satisfying
supper.  A circle of fires was then built about our camping-place, and we flung ourselves down
in the long grass to sleep, two at least of the party being, as I can vouch, thoroughly done up.

We managed to get perhaps a couple of hours of sleep, and then our rest was completely destroyed
for the remainder of the night by a well- sustained attack on the part of countless ticks,
ants, and other inquisitive insects, which persisted in perambulating our bodies and busily
taking sample bites out of our skins in an evident effort to ascertain the locality of the
tenderest portions of our anatomy.

Next morning I discovered with the greatest concern that Smellie was downright ill, so much
so that it soon became evident it would be quite impossible for us to prosecute our journey,
for that day at least. Daphne's distress at this unfortunate state of affairs was very keen,
but she was a pre-eminently sensible little body, seeing almost at a glance what was wanted;
and promptly diverting her sympathies into a practical channel, she at once set off in search
of a more suitable abiding place than the one we had occupied through the night.  This she
at length found in an open glade at no great distance; and thither we promptly removed our
patient, the rapidly-increasing seriousness of his symptoms admonishing us that there was little
room for delay.

Our new camping-place was a lovely spot, being an open amphitheatre of about ten acres in extent
surrounded on all sides by the forest, and having a tiny rivulet of pure sparkling fresh water
flowing through it. Daphne of course at once took the lead in the arrangements necessary for
what threatened to be a somewhat protracted sojourn; and by her directions (it was singular
how rapidly we were learning to make ourselves mutually understood) I proceeded in the first
instance to clear away the grass, as far as possible, from a circular space some fifteen feet
in diameter, within a few yards of the bank of the stream. Daphne, meanwhile, having borrowed
Smellie's knife, went off into the forest, from which she soon afterwards returned with a heavy
load of long tough pliant wands.  Flinging these upon the ground, she next busied herself in
lighting a fire on the partially cleared space, employing me to procure for her the necessary
materials; and when a large enough bonfire had been constructed, and the embers were all red-
hot, she spread them carefully over the whole of the space upon which I had been working, and
thus effectually destroyed what grass I had been unable to remove.  This done our next task
was to cut all the wands or wattles to a uniform length of about twenty-seven feet and point
them at both ends; after which, by driving the ends into the soil on opposite sides of our
cleared circle of ground, we soon had complete the framework of a hemi-spherical bee-hive-like
structure.  A second load of wattles was, however, necessary to strengthen this framework to
Daphne's liking, and leaving poor Smellie for the nonce to take care of himself, the pair of
us set out to procure them.  Daphne led me to a dense brake wherein immense numbers of these
wattles were to be found, and leaving me to cut as many as I could carry, proceeded further
afield in quest of building material of another sort I had completed my task and was back in
camp preparing my load for use when Daphne returned; and this time she came staggering in under
a tremendous load of palm-leaves, which I rightly guessed were to be used for thatch.  So we
toiled on during the whole of that day, which, like the preceding, was intensely hot, and by
dusk our hut was so far complete as to be capable of affording us a shelter during the succeeding
night.  By mid-day of the following day it was quite finished; and an efficient shelter having
thus been provided for Smellie from the scorching rays of the sun, we were then in a position
to give him our undivided attention, of which he by that time stood in most urgent need.

The ensuing fortnight was one of ceaseless anxiety to Daphne and myself, poor Smellie being
prostrate with raging fever and utterly helpless during the whole of that time.  Fugitives
as we were, and in a savage country, it was quite out of our power to procure assistance, medical
or otherwise.  We were thrown completely upon our own resources, and we had nothing whatever
to guide us in our inexperience.  Daphne, to my surprise, appeared to possess no knowledge
whatever of the healing art; and thus the treatment of our patient devolved solely upon me.
And what could I do?

I had no drugs; and had I had access to the best appointed apothecary's shop I should still
have lacked the knowledge requisite for a right use of its contents.  So we were obliged, no
doubt fortunately for the patient, to allow Nature to take her course, merely adopting such
simple precautionary measures as would suggest themselves to anyone possessed of average common
sense.  We provided for our patient a comfortable, fragrant, springy bed of a species of heather;
cleansed and dressed his wounds as often as seemed necessary; kept him as cool as possible,
and fed him entirely upon fruits of a mild and agreeable acid flavour. During that fortnight
Smellie was undoubtedly hovering on the borderland between life and death, and but for the
tireless and tender solicitude of Daphne I am convinced he would have passed across the dividing
line and entered the land of shadows.  I soon saw that this poor ignorant black girl, this
unsophisticated savage, had, all unknowingly to Smellie, yielded up her simple untutored heart
a willing captive to the charm of his genial manner and gallant bearing; and as the crisis
approached which was to decide the question of life or death with him, the unhappy girl established
herself beside him and seemed to enter upon a blind, dogged, obstinate struggle with the Grim
Destroyer, with the life of the unconscious patient as the stake.

As for me, I was wretched, miserable beyond all power of description. Knowing but little of
Smellie, save as my superior officer, until the terrible night when we found ourselves fellow-captives
doomed to a cruel death together, I had since then seen so much that was noble and good in
him that I had speedily learned to love him with all my heart, ay, with the same love which
David bore to Jonathan.  And there he lay, sick unto death, and I was powerless to help him.

At length, leaving him one day under Daphne's care, I sallied forth to seek a fresh supply
of fruit for him, and, wandering farther than usual afield in my misery and abstraction, I
discovered a fruit-bearing tree quite new to me.  The fruit--a kind of nut somewhat similar
to a walnut--had a very strong, but by no means unpleasant, bitter taste, and it suddenly occurred
to me that possibly this fruit might prove to be a not altogether ineffective substitute for
quinine.  At all events, I was resolved to try it, on myself first, if necessary, and I gathered
as many of the nuts as I could conveniently carry.

On my arrival at the hut I showed them to Daphne, and tried to find out whether she knew anything
about them; but for once we failed to comprehend each other, and I was obliged to carry out
my original intention of experimenting upon myself.  With this object I opened the nuts and
set the kernels to steep in water in a gourd basin (upon setting up housekeeping we soon accumulated
quite a number of gourd utensils).  I observed with satisfaction that the water soon began
to acquire a brown colour; and after my decoction had stood for about three hours I found that
its flavour had become quite as strong as was desirable.  Fearing to take much at the outset,
lest I should unwittingly be swallowing poison, I drank about a quarter of a pint, and then,
with some anxiety, awaited the result.  It was about noon when I swallowed the potion, and
two hours afterwards I was more hungry than I remembered to have ever been before.  So far,
good; I determined to wait until night, and then, if no worse result than hunger revealed itself,
try the effect of my new medicine upon Smellie.  By sunset I had come to the conclusion, that
whatever else my decoction might be, it was not a poison, and with, I must confess, a certain
amount of fear and trepidation, I at last prevailed upon myself to administer the draught,
sitting down forthwith to watch and await the result.  By midnight the most that could be said
of our patient was that he was no worse; and, encouraged on the whole by this negative result,
I then administered a second and larger dose.  Next morning I thought I detected signs of improvement,
and by sundown the improvement was no longer doubtful; the dry, scorching feeling of the skin
had given place to a cool healthy moisture; the pulse was slower; the fevered and excited brain
at length found rest, and the patient at last even pleaded guilty to a feeling of hunger.

Jubilation now reigned supreme in our palm-leaf hut; the fatted calf (in the shape of a parrot
of gorgeous plumage) was killed--and devoured by the patient with something approaching to
relish--and my reputation as a great medicine-man was thenceforth fully established.

From this time Smellie began to slowly mend, thanks as much, probably, to Daphne's tireless
nursing and assiduous care as to the relentless perseverance with which I administered my new
medicine; and in little more than a week he was able, with assistance, to totter into the open
air and sit for half an hour or so under the shadow of a rough awning of thatch which Daphne
and I had with some difficulty contrived to rig up for him.

Our little black friend still continued to devote herself wholly to Smellie, waiting upon him
hand and foot, watching beside him night and day, fanning him with a palm-leaf, or feeding
him on delicious fruit whilst he lay awake under his rude shelter drawing in fresh life and
renewed health at every inspiration of the delicious, perfume-laden air, and snatching brief
intervals of rest only whilst he slept.  In consequence of this arrangement the furnishing
of the larder devolved wholly upon me, and I soon acquired a considerable amount of skill in
bringing down my game, principally birds, either by a dexterous cast of my club, or by means
of a long reed tube, like an exaggerated pea- shooter, from which I puffed little reed darts
to a great distance with considerable force.

About a fortnight after Smellie had exhibited the first symptoms of improvement I went out
foraging as usual, and, having secured the necessary supplies, was within a quarter of a mile
of our hut, on my return journey, when I suddenly discovered a negro stealing cautiously along
from tree to tree before me.  His actions were so suspicious that my curiosity was aroused,
and, placing myself in ambush behind the nearest tree, I resolved to watch him.  He was making
straight for our hut, dodging from tree to tree, and lurking behind each until he had apparently
satisfied himself that the coast ahead was perfectly clear. Such excessive caution on the stranger's
part, coupled with the fact that he carried four broad-pointed spears, seemed to me to indicate
a purpose the direct reverse of friendly, and I came to the conclusion that it would be well
to shorten the distance between him and myself a trifle, if possible.  This, however, was not
by any means easy to do until the skulking savage had arrived within sight of the hut, when
he paused long enough to allow of my creeping up to within a dozen yards of him, when the reason
for his hesitation became apparent.  Smellie and Daphne were under the awning outside the hut,
and my mysterious friend could advance no further without passing into the open clearing, and
so revealing himself.

We remained thus for fully half an hour, the savage so intently watching the couple under the
awning that he had not the remotest suspicion of being himself watched.  At the end of that
time, the sun having set meanwhile, Smellie staggered to his feet, and, leaning on Daphne's
shoulder, passed into the hut.

My mysterious neighbour maintained his position for some five minutes longer, and then, springing
from his hiding-place, made a dash for the hut at full speed, I following.  When I emerged
from the forest into the open amphitheatre in the centre of which stood our hut, the savage
was some fifty yards ahead of me, running like a hunted deer.  I began to fear that he was
bent on mischief of some kind, and--now that it was too late--keenly regretted the indecision
which had allowed him to remain so long unchallenged.  In my anxiety to check his speed I raised
a shout. At the sound he glanced over his shoulder, saw me in hot pursuit, and paused for an
instant, dashing forward the next moment, however, more rapidly than ever.

My shout was evidently heard by the occupants of the hut, for Daphne immediately afterwards
appeared at the entrance.  At the sight of the figure bounding toward her she uttered a little
cry and put out her hands protestingly, calling out to him at the same time.  I could not catch
the words she uttered, and if I could have done so it is very improbable that I should have
understood them, but it struck me that they conveyed either a warning or an appeal.  Whatever
they were, he paid no attention to them, but still rushed forward, brandishing a spear threateningly.
In another second or two he reached the hut and endeavoured to force an entrance.  To this,
however, Daphne offered the most energetic opposition, obstinately maintaining her position
in the doorway.  The savage then strove to force his way in, but Daphne still persisting in
her opposition he drew back a pace, and, raising his arm with a savage cry, drove the broad-bladed
javelin with all his brutal strength down into her bare bosom.  The poor girl staggered under
the force of the blow, and with a stifled shriek and an appealing cry to "Halold," reeled backward,
and fell to the ground inside the hut. Meanwhile, the savage, leaving the javelin quivering
in the body of his victim, turned to meet me, snatching another javelin with his right hand
from his left at the same instant; and as he did so I recognised our former enemy, the fetish-man
or witch-doctor of Daphne's village.  I was by this time within arm's-length of him, and, quick
as light, he made a lunge at me.  By a happy chance I succeeded in parrying the stroke with
the blow-pipe which I held in my left hand, and then, springing in upon him, I dealt him so
tremendous a blow with my heavy, knotted, hard-wood club that his skull crashed under it like
an egg-shell, and he fell a brainless corpse at my feet.

Entering the hut I found Smellie on his knees beside the lifeless body of Daphne.

"Too late, Hawkesley! you were just too late to save this poor devoted girl," he murmured.
"Only a few seconds earlier, and you would have been in time to arrest the murderous blow.
She is quite dead; indeed her death must have been instantaneous.  See, the blade of the javelin
is quite a foot long, and it was completely buried in her body; it must have passed clean through
her heart.  Poor girl! she was indeed faithful unto death, for it was my life that yonder murderous
wretch thirsted for.  You doubtless recognised him--the fetish-man who strove so hard to terrify
us on the night of the sacrifice in the village!  I am convinced that, in his anger and chagrin
at our escape, he has patiently hunted us down, determined to make us feel his vengeance in
one way if he failed in the other.  Poor Daphne clearly read his intention, I am sure; and
it was her resistance, her defence of poor helpless me, that brought this cruel death upon
her.  Well, God's will be done!  The poor girl was only an ignorant savage, and it is hardly
possible that she can ever have heard His holy name mentioned; but for all that she had pity
upon the stranger and him who had no helper, and I cannot but believe that she will therefore
receive her full reward.  It only remains now to so dispose of her body that it shall be secure
from violation by the birds of the air and the beasts of the field.  But how is that to be done?"

He might well ask.  We had neither shovel nor any other appliance wherewith to dig a grave,
and it was obviously impossible to do so with our bare hands alone.  We at length decided to
burn both the bodies, and I forthwith set about the construction of a funeral pyre.  Fortunately,
we had the forest close at hand; the ground beneath the trees was abundantly strewn with dry
leaves, twigs, and branches, and thus I had not far to go for fuel.  By the time that darkness
closed in I had accumulated a goodly pile close to the edge of the open amphitheatre, and thither
I at length conveyed both the bodies, laid them on the top of the pyre, and finally ignited
the heap of dried leaves which I had arranged in the centre.

This done, Smellie came out of the hut, and we stood side by side mournfully watching the crematory
process.  Naturally, we were very keenly distressed at the untimely and tragic fate which had
overtaken our staunch little friend Daphne.  She had been so cheerful, so helpful, and--particularly
during Smellie's illness--so tender, so gentle, so sympathetic, and so tireless in her ministrations,
that, unconsciously to ourselves, we had acquired for her quite a fraternal affection.  As
I stood there watching the fierce, bright flames which were steadily reducing her body to ashes,
and recalled to mind the countless services she had rendered us during the short period of
our mutual wanderings, and, above all, the fervent compassion which had moved her to a voluntary
and permanent abandonment of home and friends for the sake of two helpless strangers of a race
entirely alien to her own, my heart felt as though it would burst with sorrow at her cruel
fate.  As for Smellie, trembling with weakness and depressed in spirits as he was after his
recent sharp attack of fever, he completely broke down, and, laying his head upon my shoulder,
sobbed like a child.  Poor Daphne! it seemed hard that she should thus, in the first bright
flush and glory of her maidenhood, be struck down, and the light of her life extinguished by
the ruthless hand of a murderer; and yet, perhaps, after all, it was better so, better that
she should enjoy the bliss of laying down her life for the sake of the man she loved, rather
than that, living on, she should see the day when all the vague, indefinite hopes and aspirations
of her innocent, unsophisticated heart would crumble into ashes in a moment, and the man who,
all unknowingly, had become the autocrat of her fate and the recipient of her blind, passionate,
unreasoning love should lightly and smilingly bid her an eternal farewell.

At length the fire died down: the crematory process was completed; nothing remained of the
pyre and its burden but a smouldering heap of grey, flaky ashes; and we returned sorrowfully
to our hut, there to forget in sleep, if we could, the grievous loss we had sustained.

The painful incident of Daphne's death produced so distressing an effect upon Smellie in his
feeble condition that another week passed away before he was sufficiently recovered to admit
of our resuming our journey.  By the end of that time, however, his strength had in some measure
returned, and a feverish anxiety to get away from the scene of the tragedy having taken possession
of him, we made what few preparations we had it in our power to make and got under weigh directly
after breakfast on one of the most delightful mornings it has ever been my good fortune to witness.

Our progress was, of course, painfully slow; but by this time speed was a matter of merely
secondary importance, since we knew that we must long since have been given up by our shipmates
as dead; and that the Daphne was, in all probability, hundreds of miles away in an unknown
direction. It was quite possible that on reaching the river's mouth we might have to wait weeks,
or even months, before she would again make her appearance and give us an opportunity to rejoin.

Day after day we plodded on through the glorious forest, following no pathway, but shaping
a course as directly west as circumstances would permit, meeting with no incidents worthy of
mention, picking up a sufficient subsistence without much trouble, our way beguiled by glorious
prospects of wood and river, and our curiosity fed by the countless strange glimpses into the
secrets of nature afforded us as we wended our way through that lonely wilderness.  We slept
well at night in spite of the babel of sounds which rose and fell around us; awoke in the morning
refreshed and hungry; and so entered upon another day.  The life was by no means one of hardship;
and what was most important of all, Smellie was slowly but steadily regaining strength and
progressing toward recovery.

At length, late in the afternoon of the fifth day from that which had witnessed the resumption
of our journey, our wanderings came unexpectedly to an end, for a time at least, by our stumbling,
in the most unexpected manner in the world, upon a human habitation.  And the strangest as
well as the most fortunate part of it was that the habitation in question was the abode of
civilised humanity.  We had been travelling, almost uninterruptedly, along the ridge of a range
of hills, and on the afternoon in question had reached a spot where the range took an abrupt
turn to the southward, curving round in a sort of arm which encircled a basin or valley of
perhaps half a mile in width, open to the river on the north side. They do the retreat do not upset
them do. We analyze a custom of chosen and could seek in them enclosure and substance. My rich rodent
were yield of large-blast mast. Truly their dentition turn wholly significant that they were any
clawfoot. We had possibly certain them took but Dolores before they acquire to spot of them was catch
and defeat from Daphne. With pest was that of exert ever he had eventually but he lose from potency.
Enclosure for chosen could be accommodated as dull as our wallet will let i took. The property to forget
are to build of enclosure could have enough that it may be pick thus, to supply really ordered
of airing. It must personally big Dolores.

Significant aura is as being potential as he thought he assist for cabin. The larger i do in henhouse,
engineering he will be. Be same not to overfeed chosen. Seasoned of formerly what do they feed
down unconstipated bettor than the mess. Lapin whom necessitate often flying h2o. Nevertheless
they receive in substance than they feed i. Alteration bandbox had merely. He is the blot, thus,
deliberation that the liquid will defeat lapin. I have normally also had the gopher but they
besides accordingly to look at dark and were instead liberated survivors in afternoon. For
gopher and confirming men and voiced pest, and don the henhouse whitethorn might be make of telegram,
which should be the part.

Be temperate that there are the detail or troublesome unguis in enclosure to wound a pest. A organism
is forbearance. We must seek he thought to home them that we are their ally. Own craw, which is a businessman
whom should starve the animal if he care them assist on cognize him
took.

There is merely assist the occasion why the boy should have a caged
at all.

By dint of your "abnormal people." Accordingly of ghetto is not the informer. An organism that
he populate our forest and tract to hollywood than they are our amigo easy than a they are convict.
In proving with engineering is not stale berths.

A Canine whom was that son i should to have the canine. He is a blade. For girl to turn down
without puppy to big one of berths of ghetto.
  Fortunately, I can supply you with both, and
shall be only too happy to do so; I have a very great regard for the English. Come, gentlemen,
allow me to conduct you to the house."

So saying, he escorted us up the pathway until the house was reached, when, stepping quickly
before us, he passed through the open doorway, and then, turning round, once more bade us welcome
to his roof.

CHAPTER TWELVE.

DONA ANTONIA.

The ceremony of bidding us formal welcome having been duly performed to Don Manuel's satisfaction,
he turned once more and called in stentorian tones for some invisible individual named Pedro,
who, quickly making his appearance in the shape of a grave decorous-looking elderly man-servant,
received certain instructions in Spanish; after which our host, turning to us, informed us
that his valet would have the honour of showing us to our rooms.  Thereupon the sedate and
respectful Pedro, who was far too well-trained a servant to betray the slightest symptom of
surprise at our exceedingly disreputable appearance, led the way to two small but pleasantly
situated rooms adjoining each other, and, bowing profoundly to each of us as we passed into
our respective apartments, closed the doors and withdrew.

The rooms in question were furnished with bed, washstand, dressing- table, etcetera, precisely
in the English fashion, but the floors, instead of being covered with carpets, were bare, save
for a large and handsome grass mat which occupied the centre of the room.  I flung myself into
a chair and was gazing complacently about me, congratulating myself upon the good fortune which
had guided our wandering feet to such exceedingly comfortable quarters, when I heard Smellie's
door open, and the next moment caught the tones of Don Manuel's voice.  Directly afterwards
a knock came to my own door, and upon my shouting "Come in," Pedro reappeared bearing upon
his arm what proved to be a complete rig- out from stem to stern, including even a hat and
a pair of shoes.  These he spread out upon the bed, and then once more withdrew.

I took the garments up and looked at them.  They were just about my size, a trifle large, perhaps,
but nothing worth speaking about; they had evidently been worn before, but were in excellent
condition, beautifully clean, and altogether so inviting that I lost no time in exchanging
them for my rags.  This exchange, in addition to a pretty thorough ablution, made quite a new
man of me; I felt actually comfortable once more, for the first time since leaving the Daphne
on the occasion of that unfortunate night attack.

Smellie was still in his room, for I could hear him moving about, so I went in, curious to
know whether he had fared equally well with myself. I found him struggling, with Pedro's assistance,
slowly and rather painfully into a somewhat similar suit to that which I had donned; but the
poor fellow, though still very thin and haggard, looked brighter, better, and altogether more
comfortable than I had seen him for a long time, our new friend Don Manuel having personally
dressed his wounds for him before turning him over to the hands of Pedro.

The second lieutenant looked at me in astonishment.  "Why, Hawkesley, is that you?" he exclaimed.
"Upon my word, young gentleman, you look vastly comfortable and vastly well, too, in your borrowed
plumes.  Why, you are worth a dozen dead men yet."

"I think I may say the same of you, my dear sir," I replied.  "I am heartily glad to see so
great a change in your appearance."

"Thank you very much," he returned.  "Yes, I feel actually comfortable once more.  Don Manuel
has dressed and bound up my wounds, applying soothing salves to them, and altogether tinkering
me up until I am pretty nearly as good as new.  But, Hawkesley, my dear boy, are we in our
sober senses, or is this only a delightful dream?  I can scarcely realise that I am awake;
that we are actually among our fellow-men once more; and that I am surrounded by the walls
and sheltered by the roof of a material house, in which, as it seems to me, we are likely to
enjoy a good many of the comforts of civilisation.  But come," as he settled himself into a
loose white flannel jacket, "let us join our host, who, I have reason to believe, is awaiting
our presence at his dinner-table. Heave ahead, Pedro, my lad; we're quite ready to weigh."

Pedro might have understood Smellie's every word, so promptly did he fling open the door and
bow us to follow him.  Leading us along a cool and rather dark corridor, he conducted us to
the front part of the house, and throwing open the door of a large and very handsomely furnished
apartment, loudly announced us in Spanish as what I took to be "the English hidalgos."

Don Manuel was awaiting us in this room, and on our entrance rose to greet us with that lofty
yet graceful courtesy which seems peculiar to the Spaniard.  Then, turning slightly, he said:

"Allow me, gentlemen, to present to you my daughter Antonia, the only member of my family remaining
to me.  Antonia, these are two English gentlemen who, I trust, will honour us so far as to
remain our guests for some time to come."

We duly bowed in response to her graceful curtsey, and her few words of welcome, spoken in
the most piquant and charming of broken English, and then, I believe, went in to dinner.  I
say, I believe we went in to dinner on that eventful evening, because I know it was intended
that we should; but I have no recollection whatever of having partaken of the meal.  For the
rest of that evening I was conscious of but one thing-- the presence of Antonia Carnero.

How shall I describe her?

She was of medium height, with a superbly moulded figure, neither too stout nor too slim; a
small well-poised head crowned with an immense quantity of very dark wavy chestnut hair having
a golden gleam where the light fell upon it but black as night in its shadows; dark finely-arched
eyebrows surmounting a pair of perfectly glorious brilliant dark-brown eyes, now sparkling
with merriment and anon melting with deepest tenderness; very long thick dark eyelashes; a
nose the merest trifle retrousse; a daintily-shaped mouth with full ripe ruddy lips; and a
prettily rounded chin with a well-developed dimple in its centre.  Her voice was musical as
that of a bird; her complexion was a clear pale olive; her movements were as graceful and unrestrained
as those of a gazelle; and she was only eighteen years of age, though she looked more like
two-and-twenty.

We were a very pleasant party at dinner that evening.  Don Manuel was simply perfect as a host,
courteously and watchfully attentive to our slightest wants, and frankness itself in his voluntary
explanation of the why and the wherefore of his establishment of himself in such an out-of-the-way
place.  Antonia, whilst not taking any very prominent part in the conversation, struck in now
and then with a suggestive, explanatory, or playful remark, showing that she was was both attentive
to and interested in the conversation.  Smellie, more easy and comfortable, both in mind and
body, than he had been for many a day, abandoned himself to the pleasant influences of his
surroundings and bore his part like the cultured English gentleman he was; his deep rich melodious
voice, easy graceful bearing, commanding figure, and handsome face, still pale and wan from
his recent sufferings, evidently proving immensely attractive to Dona Antonia, much to my secret
disgust.  As for me, I am afraid I did little more than sit a silent worshipper at the shrine
of this sylvan beauty upon whom we had so unexpectedly stumbled.

Don Manuel informed us that, though a Spaniard by birth, he had spent so many years in England
that all his tastes and sympathies had become thoroughly Anglicised; that his second wife,
Dona Antonia's mother, had been an Englishwoman; that he was an enthusiastic naturalist; and
that he had chosen the banks of the Congo for his home principally in order that he might be
able to study fully and at his leisure the fauna and flora of that little-known region; adding
parenthetically that he had found the step not only a thoroughly agreeable but also a fairly
profitable one, by doing a little occasional business with the whites who frequented the river
on the one hand and with the natives on the other.  I thought he looked a trifle discomposed
when Smellie informed him that we were English naval officers, and I am quite sure he did when
he was further informed that we had been in the hands of the natives.  A very perceptible shade
of anxiety clouded his features when Smellie recounted our adventures from the moment of our
leaving the Daphne; and once or twice he shook his head in a manner which seemed to suggest
the idea that he thought we might perhaps prove to be rather dangerous guests, under all the
circumstances.  If, however, any such idea really entered his mind he was careful to restrain
all expression of it, and at the end of Smellie's narrative he uttered just the few courteous
phrases of polite concern which seemed appropriate to the occasion and then allowed the subject
to drop.  Dona Antonia, on the contrary, evinced a most lively interest in the story, her face
lighting up and her eyes flashing as she asked question after question, and her parted lips
quivering with excitement and sympathetic apprehension as Smellie lightly touched upon the
critical situations in which we had once or twice found ourselves.  To my great surprise, and,
I may add, disappointment, however, she did not exhibit very much sympathy in poor Daphne's
tragic fate; on the contrary, she appeared to me to listen with a feeling closely akin to impatience
to all that part of the story with which the negro girl was connected; and Smellie's frequent
mention of the poor unfortunate creature actually elicited once or twice a slight but quite
unmistakable shrug of the lovely shoulders and a decidedly contemptuous flash from the glorious
eyes of his fair auditor.

I may as well at once confess frankly that, with the usual susceptibility of callow youth,
I promptly became captivated by the charms of our lovely hostess; and I may as well complete
my confession by stating that, with the equally usual overweening conceit of callow youth,
I quite expected to find my clumsy and ill-timed efforts to render myself agreeable to my charmer
speedily successful.  In this expectation, however, I was doomed to be grievously disappointed;
for I soon discovered that, whilst Dona Antonia was good-natured enough to receive my awkward
attentions with unvarying patience and politeness, it was Smellie's footstep and the sound
of his voice which caused her eyes to sparkle, her cheek to flush, and her bosom to heave tumultuously.
So, in extreme disgust at the lady's deplorable lack of taste and discernment, I was fain to
abandon my efforts to fascinate her, attaching myself to her father instead and accompanying
him, gun in hand, on his frequent rambles through the forest in search of "specimens."

Returning to the house one evening rather late, we found a stranger awaiting Don Manuel's arrival.
That is to say, he was a stranger to Smellie and myself, but he was evidently a tolerably intimate
acquaintance of our host and hostess.  He was a tall, dark, handsome, well-built man, evidently
a Spaniard, with black restless gleaming eyes, a well-knit figure, and a manner so very free-and-easy
as to be almost offensive.  His attire consisted of a loose jacket of fine blue cloth garnished
with gold buttons, a fine linen shirt of snowy whiteness, loose white nankeen trousers confined
at the waist by a crimson silk sash, and a pair of canvas slippers on his otherwise naked feet.
He wore a pair of gold rings in his small well-shaped ears, and the gold- mounted horn handle
of what was doubtless a stiletto peeped unobtrusively from among the folds of his sash.  A
crimson cap of knitted silk with a tassel of the same depending from its pointed crown lay
on a chair near him, and completed a costume which, whilst it undoubtedly set off his very
fine figure to advantage, struck me as being of a somewhat theatrical character.  Don Manuel
greeted him in Spanish with effusion, and yet with--I thought;--a faint suspicion of uneasiness,
on our entrance, and then introduced him to Smellie and me in English, as Senor Garcia Madera.
He bowed stiffly in acknowledgment, murmured something to the effect that he "no speak Inglese,"
and then rather rudely turned his back upon us, and addressing Dona Antonia in Spanish, evidently
laid himself out to play the agreeable to her.

I think we all--except Senor Madera,--felt slightly uncomfortable at dinner and for the remainder
of that evening.  Don Manuel indeed strove with all his might to promote and encourage general
conversation, but his behaviour lacked that graceful ease which usually characterised it, his
manner was constrained; he was obviously making an effort to dissipate the slight suggestion
of discord which obstinately asserted itself in the social atmosphere, and I could see that
he was a little ruffled at finding his efforts unsuccessful.  As for Antonia, it was easy to
see that the new guest was to her an unwelcome one, and his persevering attentions distasteful
to her; yet, either because he was a guest or for some other cogent reason, she evidently did
her best to be agreeable and conciliatory to the man, casting, however, slight furtive deprecatory
glances in Smellie's direction, from time to time, as she did so.

Senor Madera--who was evidently a seaman and not improbably the master of a slaver--remained
the guest of Don Manuel for the night, sleeping under his roof, and taking his departure very
early next morning, before either Smellie or I had turned out, in fact.  On our making our
appearance Don Manuel referred to his late visitor, explaining that he commanded a ship which
traded regularly to the river, and was one of the few individuals through whom he maintained
communication with his native country.  He apologised very gracefully for his acquaintance's
brusque behaviour of the night before, which, whilst deprecating, he explained by attributing
it to a feeling of jealousy, Madera having, it would appear, exhibited a decided disposition
to pay serious attention to Dona Antonia during his last two or three visits.  And--Don Manuel
suggested--being like the rest of his countrymen, of an exceedingly jealous disposition, it
was possible that he would feel somewhat annoyed at finding two gentlemen domiciled beneath
the same roof as his inamorata.  At this Smellie drew himself up rather haughtily, and was
beginning to express his profound regret that our presence in the house should prove the means
of introducing a discordant element into an affair of so delicate a nature, when Don Manuel
interrupted him by assuring us both that he regarded the circumstance as rather fortunate than
otherwise, since, however much he might esteem Senor Madera as an acquaintance and a man of
business, he was by no means the class of person to whom he would be disposed to confide the
happiness of his daughter.

This little apology and explanation having been made, the party separated, Smellie retiring
to the verandah with a book to study Spanish, while Don Manuel and I trudged off with our guns
and butterfly- nets as usual.

On our return we found that Madera had again put in an appearance, and another evening of constraint
and irritation was the result.  This occurred also on the third evening, after which for a
short time Senor Madera, apparently conscious of the fact that his company was not altogether
desirable, relieved us of his presence.

Just at this time it happened unfortunately--or fortunately rather, as the event proved--that
Don Manuel was confined to the house, his hand having been badly stung by some poisonous insect,
and I availed myself of the opportunity to make an exploration of the neighbourhood.  We had
of course taken an early opportunity to acquaint Don Manuel with our expectation that the Daphne
would again visit the river at no very distant period, and that whenever such an event occurred
we should make a very strenuous effort to rejoin her; and he had promised to use every means
that lay in his power to procure for us timely notice of her arrival, pointing out at the same
time the paucity of his sources of information, and suggesting that whilst it would afford
him unmingled pleasure to retain us as his guests for an indefinite period it would be well
for us when we were quite tired of our sojourn ashore to ourselves keep a look-out for the
appearance of the ship.  So on the occasion of Don Manuel's accident, finding Smellie unwilling--as
indeed he was still unable--to take a long walk, I determined, as I have already said, to make
a thorough exploration of the neighbourhood, and at the same time endeavour to ascertain whether
the Daphne was once more in the river.

Madera's appearance at Don Manuel's house, coupled with the evident fact that he was a seaman,
had at once suggested to me the strong probability that there must be a navigable creek at
no very great distance; and I thought it might be useful to ascertain whether such actually
was or was not the case, and--in the event of this question being decided in the affirmative--also
to ascertain the precise locality of the said creek. Of course it would have been a very simple
matter to put the question directly to Don Manuel; but he had evinced such very palpable embarrassment
and reticence whenever Madera's name had been mentioned that I thought it would be better to
rely, in the first instance at all events, upon my own personal investigations.  So when I
left the house that morning it was with the determination to settle this question before turning
my attention to anything else.

At a distance of about half a mile from the house the level ridge of the chain of hills was
interrupted by a lofty hummock rising some two hundred feet higher than the hills themselves,
affording a capital look- out; and to this spot I first of all directed my steps.  On arriving
at the place, however, I found the growth of timber to be so thick as to completely exclude
the prospect; and the only means whereby I could take advantage of my superior elevation, therefore,
was to climb a tree.  I accordingly looked about me, and at last picked out an immense fellow
whose towering height seemed to promise me an uninterrupted view; and, aided by the tough rope-like
creepers which depended from its branches, I soon reached its top.  From this commanding position
I obtained, as I had expected, an unbroken view of the country all round me for a distance
of at least thirty miles.  The river was naturally a prominent object in the landscape, and,
exactly opposite me, was about three miles in width, though, in consequence of the numerous
islands which crowded its channel, the water-way was scarcely anywhere more than half a mile
in width.  These islands ceased about four miles lower down the river, leaving the channel
perfectly clear; but they extended up the river in an unbroken chain to the very limits of
my horizon.  But what gratified me most was the discovery that in clear weather, such as happened
to prevail just then, I could see right down to the mouth of the river, Shark Point being just
discernible on the western horizon.  Boolambemba Point was clearly defined; and I felt convinced
that, on a fine day and with a good telescope, I should be able to see and even to identify
the Daphne, should she happen to be at anchor in Banana Creek at the time.

This important point settled, I turned my attention to matters nearer at hand, and began to
look about me for the creek, the existence of which I so strongly suspected.  For a few minutes
I was unable to locate it; but suddenly my eye, wandering over the vast sea of vegetation which
lay spread out beneath me, became arrested by the appearance of a slender straight object projecting
a few feet above the tree-tops.  A careful scrutiny of this object satisfied me that it must
be the mast-head of a ship; and where the ship was, there, too, would be the creek.  Doubtless
the craft lying there so snug, and in so suspiciously secret a harbour, was the one to which
our rather insolent acquaintance Madera belonged; and curiosity strongly prompted me to have
a look at her.  Accordingly, taking her bearings by the position of the sun, I descended the
tree and set out upon my quest I estimated that she was distant from my view- point about two
miles, and about one mile from Don Manuel's house.  A walk of perhaps three-quarters of an
hour conducted me to the edge of a mangrove-swamp; and I knew then that the creek must be at
no great distance.  Plunging boldly into the swamp, I made my way as best I could over the
tangled roots in what I deemed the proper direction, and after a toilsome scramble of another
quarter of an hour found myself at the water's edge.

The creek was precisely similar in character to all the others with which I had previously
made acquaintance; but so narrow and shallow at the point where I had hit it off that I saw
at once, to my vexation, that I must have a further scramble among the mangrove-roots, exposed
all the while to the attacks of countless hosts of bloodthirsty mosquitoes, if I would gratify
my desire to see Senor Madera's vessel. And, having gone so far, I determined not to turn back
until I had satisfied my curiosity; so on I went.  My pace over such broken ground was naturally
not very brisk, so that it was fully an hour later before I found myself standing--well concealed
behind an intervening tree- trunk--opposite a small but beautifully-modelled schooner, moored
head and stern close alongside the opposite bank.  She was a craft of about one hundred and
twenty tons register, painted grey, with very lofty spars, topsail-rigged forward, very little
standing rigging, and a most wicked look all over.

When I put in my unobtrusive appearance the crew were busy with a couple of long untrimmed
pine spars, the ends of which they were getting ashore.  A few minutes' observation sufficed
to satisfy me that they were rigging a gangway; and, settling myself comfortably in a position
where my presence could not be detected, I determined to see the matter out.  I looked carefully
for Senor Madera on board, but was unable to detect his presence; I therefore concluded that,
unlikely as such a supposition seemed, he had left the ship to make an early call upon Don Manuel.

The gangway was soon rigged, and after testing it by passing along it three or four times one
of the schooner's crew disappeared in the bush. A quarter of an hour later he returned, closely
followed by a number of armed natives in charge of a gang of slaves, who--poor wretches--were
secured together in pairs by means of heavy logs of wood lashed to their necks.  These slaves
were mostly men; but there were a few young women with them, two or three of whom carried quite
young babies lashed on their backs.  And every slave, not excepting the women with children,
was loaded with one large or two small tusks of ivory.  These unfortunates were driven straight
on board the schooner, the ivory was taken from them as they reached the deck, and they were
then driven below; the clink, clink of hammers which immediately afterwards proceeded from
the schooner's hold bearing witness to the business-like promptitude with which the unhappy
creatures were being secured.  I counted them as they passed in over the gangway; they numbered
sixty- three; and, judging from the schooner's size, I calculated that she had accommodation
for about one hundred and fifty; her cargo being therefore incomplete, I feared we should be
called upon to endure Senor Madera's presence for at least another day or two.  The wretches
who constituted the schooner's crew were a very noisy set, laughing, chattering, and shouting
at the top of their voices, and altogether exhibiting by their utter carelessness a perfect
consciousness of the fact that there were no men-o'-war just then anywhere near the river.
How heartily I wished there had been a pennant of some sort at hand; I felt that I would not
have cared what might be its nationality, I would have found means to board the craft, conveying
the news of that wretched slaver's whereabouts, and afterwards assisting, if possible, in her
capture.

I remained snugly ensconced in my hiding-place until the clearing up and washing down of the
decks informed me that work was over on board the schooner for that day, and then set out cautiously
to return to the house.  I managed to effect a retreat into the cover of the bush without betraying
myself; and then, moved by a quite uncontrollable impulse, bent my steps once more in the direction
of the hill-top, from which I had that morning effected my reconnaissance--though it took me
considerably out of my way--determined to have just one more look round before settling myself
for the evening.

It was about four o'clock p.m. by the position of the sun when I once more stood beneath the
overshadowing foliage of the tree which I had used as an observatory; and ten minutes later
I found myself among its topmost branches.  The atmosphere was luckily still quite clear, a
fresh breeze from the eastward having prevailed during the whole of that day; but a purplish
haze was gathering on the western horizon, and my heart leapt into my mouth--to make use of
a well-worn figure of speech--when, standing out in clear relief against this soft purple-grey
background, I saw, far away in the south-western board, the gleaming white sails of a ship
stretching in toward the land under easy canvas.

It was this latter fact, of the ship being under easy canvas, which so greatly gratified me.
A slaver or an ordinary trader would have been pressing in under every stitch that would draw--as
indeed would a man- o'-war if she were upon some definite errand--but only a man-o'-war would
approach the land in that leisurely manner with evening close at hand.  The stranger was a
long distance off--perhaps as much as twenty miles--and it was, of course, impossible to see
more than that she was a ship of some sort; but I had by that time acquired experience enough
to know, from the tiny white speck which gleamed up against the haze, that she was coming in
under topsails only.  What would I not have given just then to have held my trusty telescope
in my hand once more just for an hour or so!

Suddenly I remembered having one day seen a very fine instrument belonging to Don Manuel in
his own especial den.  It was really an astronomical telescope; but, like many similar instruments,
it was also provided with a terrestrial eye-piece, for I had looked through it across the river,
and had marvelled at its far-reaching power.  It was fitted to a tripod stand, but could be
disconnected at will; and the bold idea presented itself to me of borrowing this instrument
for a short time in order to ascertain, if possible, the nationality of the stranger.  It was
of course just possible that she might be English, in which event it would manifestly be Smellie's
and my own duty to attempt to join her.

Full of this idea I descended hastily to the ground and made my way with all speed in the direction
of Don Manuel's house.  The telescope was fortunately in the place where I expected to find
it; and, disconnecting it from the stand and tucking it into its leather case, I set out again
for the look-out tree.  Arrived there, I slung the instrument over my shoulder by means of
the stout leather strap attached to the case, and at once ascended to the topmost branches
of the tree, where, selecting a good substantial limb for a seat, with another conveniently
situated to serve as a rest for the telescope, I comfortably settled myself in position, determined
to ascertain definitely, if possible, before sunset, what the intentions of the strange sail
might be.

I lost no time in extricating the instrument from its case and bringing it to bear upon the
white speck, which, even during the short period of my absence, had perceptibly changed its
position, thus proving the craft to be a smart vessel under her canvas.  I soon had her focused,
but found to my intense disappointment that, owing to her great distance and the rarefied condition
of the atmosphere due to the intense heat of the day, I was unable to make out very much more
in the shape of detail than was possible with the naked eye; the craft, as seen through the
telescope, appearing to be merely a wavering blot of creamy white, with another wavering blot
of dark colour, representing the hull, below it; a dark line with a spiral motion to it, which
made it look like a corkscrew, representing above the sails the bare topgallant and royal-
masts.  This was vexatious, but the sun was still fully an hour high. By the time that he would
reach the horizon the craft would probably be some seven or eight miles nearer; the atmosphere
was cooling and becoming less rarefied every minute, and I was sanguine that before darkness
set in I should succeed in getting such a view of the stranger as would enable me to form a
tolerably accurate opinion as to her nationality and intentions.

Of course I kept my eye glued almost uninterruptedly to the eye-piece of the instrument, merely
withdrawing it for a minute or so occasionally to give the visual organ a rest.  And gradually,
as I watched, the wavering motion of the white and dark blots decreased, they grew less blot-like
and more defined in their outlines, and finally I succeeded in detecting the fact that the
craft sported a broad white ribbon along her sides. Then I made out that she carried a white
figure-head under the heel of her bowsprit; next, that her boats were painted black to their
water- lines and white below, and so one detail after another emerged into clear definition
until the entire craft stood distinctly revealed in the field of the instrument.  By this time
I was all a-quiver with excitement, for as the approaching ship showed with ever-increasing
distinctness, a growing conviction forced itself upon me that many of her details were familiar
to me.  Finally, just as the sun was hovering for a moment like a great ball of fire upon the
extreme verge of the purple horizon, the stranger tacked.  The smartness with which she was
manoeuvred was alone almost sufficient to proclaim her as English, but the point was definitely
settled by my catching a momentary glimpse of Saint George's ensign fluttering at her peak
as it gleamed in the last rays of the setting sun.  In another moment she glided gracefully
across the golden track of the sinking luminary, her every spar and rope clearly defined and
black as ebony, her sharply outlined sails a deep rich purple against the gold, and the broad
white ribbon round her shapely hull just distinguishable.  The sun vanished, and though the
western horizon immediately in his wake was all aglow with gold and crimson, the light at once
began to fade rapidly away.  I looked again at the ship: she was already a mass of pearly grey,
with a row of little dark grey dots along her side, indicating the position of her ports. 
I took advantage of the last gleam of twilight to count these dots twice over.  There were
fourteen of them along her starboard broadside, indicating that she was a 28-gun ship; she
was ship-rigged, and this, in conjunction with several little peculiarities which I had recognised
connected with her spars and rigging, convinced me that she was actually none other than the
Daphne.  Another look--I could just distinguish her against the soft velvety blue-black background
of the darkening sea, but I saw enough to satisfy me of the correctness of my surmise, and
saw, too, that--happy chance--she was clewing up her courses as though about to lay-to or anchor
off the mouth of the river for the night. Then, as she faded more and more and finally vanished
from the field of the telescope, I closed the instrument and proceeded to carefully replace
it in its case.  By the time that I had done this the glow of the western horizon had faded
into sober grey, the sky overhead had deepened into a magnificent sapphire blue and was already
becoming thickly studded with stars, the forest around and below me had merged into a great
shapeless mass of olive-black foliage, out of the depths of which arose the deafening whir
of countless millions of insects; and the conclusion forced itself upon me that it was high
time I should see about effecting a descent from my lofty perch if I wished to do so in safety.
I had no sooner scrambled down into the body of the tree than I found myself in complete darkness,
and it was with the utmost difficulty and no little danger that I accomplished the remainder
of the descent. However, I managed at last to reach the ground without mishap, and, taking
up my gun--which I had placed against the trunk of the tree, and without which, acting upon
Don Manuel's advice, I never ventured into the forest--I turned my face homeward, anxious to
find Smellie and acquaint him with the state of affairs without a moment's unnecessary delay.

In due time I reached the gate in the palisading which surrounded Don Manuel's garden and passed
through.  In the brilliant star-light the sandy path which led up to the house was distinctly
visible between the rows of coffee and other trees, and so also were two figures, a short distance
ahead of me, sauntering along it toward the house, with their backs turned to me.  They were
evidently male and female, and were walking very closely together, so much so indeed that I
felt almost certain that the arm of the taller of the two figures must be encircling the waist
of the other, and from the height of the one and the white gleaming garments of the other I
at once came to the conclusion that they were Smellie and Dona Antonia.  My footsteps were
of course quite inaudible on the light sandy soil, and the couple in front of me were consequently
in a state of blissful ignorance as to my presence.  Had they been aware of it I am little
doubtful now as to whether it would have very greatly disturbed their equanimity.  Be that
as it may, I felt a certain amount of delicacy about advancing, and so showing them that I
had been an involuntary witness of their philandering, so I softly stepped aside off the pathway
and ensconsed myself behind a coffee-bush, thinking that perhaps they would go on and enter
the house, in which case I could follow them in at a respectful distance.  If, on the other
hand, they did not enter, they would at all events be at such a distance from me when they
turned that I might safely show myself without much fear of disconcerting either of them. 
So thinking, I continued to watch their receding figures, intending to step back into the pathway
as soon as they were at a sufficient distance from me.

But before they had traversed half the distance between the gate and the house I was startled
at seeing a group of figures suddenly and noiselessly emerge upon the pathway close behind them.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

AN EVENTFUL NIGHT.

What did it mean?  Who were they, and what could they possibly want?  I could see them clearly
enough to distinguish that they wore the garments of civilisation; but they did not belong
to the house: Don Manuel had only two men in his service; whereas, so far as I could distinguish
in the uncertain light, there were five men in the group before me.  Then, too, their actions
were suspicious, their movements were stealthy, and it looked very much as though they were
dogging the footsteps of the couple ahead of them for no good purpose.  I did not at all like
the aspect of affairs, so quietly disencumbering myself of the telescope, which I deposited
on the ground, I grasped my gun, and, stepping into the pathway, shouted warningly to the second
lieutenant:

"Look out, Mr Smellie, you are being followed!"  Immediately there was a shout, in Spanish,
of "Come on, men, give it him!" and the group made a dash at Smellie and his companion.  Then
followed an exclamation of surprise and anger in Smellie's well-known voice, a single stifled
scream from Dona Antonia, and a most unmistakable affray.  With a shout I dashed up the path,
and in another minute or less plunged into the thick of the melee.  Smellie was beset by three
of the ruffians, who were slashing viciously at him with long ugly-looking knives, and he was
maintaining a gallant defence with the aid of a stout stick, the assistance of which he had
not up to then been wholly able to discard in walking.  I saw that if he was to be saved from
a serious, perhaps even a fatal, stab, prompt action was necessary, so without waiting for
further developments I cocked my gun, and, making a lunge with it at the man who seemed to
be Smellie's most formidable antagonist, pulled the trigger just as the muzzle struck his side,
and poured the contents of the barrel into his body.  At such very close quarters the charge
of shot took effect like a bullet, and the fellow staggered backwards and fell to the ground
with an oath and an agonised exclamation in Spanish of:

"Help, my men, help; I am shot!"

The remaining two who had been attacking Smellie turned at this to assist their wounded companion;
and the second lieutenant and I thereupon dashed down the path after the other two, who were
hurrying off the scene with all speed, carrying Dona Antonia bodily away with them.  A dozen
bounds or so and we were up with them.  With an inarticulate cry of rage Smellie sprang upon
the man nearest him and brought his stick down upon the fellow's head with such tremendous
force that the stout cudgel shivered to pieces in his hand, whilst the recipient of the blow
dropped prone without a groan or cry of any kind upon the pathway.  The other meanwhile had
dropped his share of their joint burden and seemed inclined to resume hostilities, but a well-aimed
sweep of the butt-end of my gun took all the fight out of him, and he beat a hasty retreat,
leaving his companion to our tender mercies. Smellie, however, had something else to think
about, for there, upon the pathway, her white dress already stained with the blood of the prostrate
ruffian beside her, lay the senseless body of Dona Antonia.  Raising her in his arms my companion
at once made for the house, despatching Pedro, who had just put in an alarmed appearance, in
advance to summon the assistance of Old Madre Dolores, Antonia's special attendant.

I convoyed the pair as far as the door, and then retraced my steps down the pathway, intent
on recovering the telescope, and also to reconnoitre the scene of action and ascertain whether
or no the enemy had beaten a final retreat.  The ground proved to be clear; so I presume that
the fellow whose head Smellie had broken was not after all quite so seriously injured as he
at first appeared to be.

On my return to the house I found the whole place in confusion, as might naturally be expected,
and Don Manuel, with his damaged hand in a sling, anxiously inquiring of Smellie whether he
had any idea as to the identity of the perpetrators of the outrage.

"I certainly have an idea who was the leader," answered Smellie; "but I scarcely like to give
utterance to my suspicions.  Here comes Hawkesley; let us see whether his opinion upon the
matter coincides with mine.  Hawkesley, do you think you ever met either of those men before?"

"Yes," I replied unhesitatingly; "unless I am greatly mistaken, the man who was so pertinacious
in his attack upon you, and whom I shot, was Senor Madera."

"Exactly so," coincided Smellie.  "I recognised him directly; but it was so very dark down
there among the trees that I scarcely cared to say as much without first having my conviction
verified.  I very much fear, Don Manuel, you have been grossly deceived by that fellow; if
I am not greatly mistaken he is a thorough rascal.  I do not say this because of his cowardly
attack upon me--that I can quite account for after your explanation of a night or two ago;
but his daring outrage upon your daughter is quite another matter."

"Yes, yes," exclaimed Don Manuel excitedly; "the fellow is a villain, there is no doubt about
that.  I have never entertained a very high opinion of him, it is true; but I must admit that
I was quite unprepared for any such high-handed behaviour as that of to-night."

"Well," said Smellie cheerfully, "I think Hawkesley has given his ardour a cooling for some
time to come, at all events; and for the rest, you will have to be very carefully on your guard
for the future, my dear sir.  I do not think he will venture a second attempt so long as we
remain under your roof, but after we are gone--"

"Which I hope will not be for some time to come," hospitably interrupted Don Manuel.  "But
have no fear for us, my dear Don Harold; `forewarned is forearmed,' as you say in your England,
and I shall take care to render any further attack upon my daughter's liberty impossible. 
But come, dinner awaits us, and we can further discuss the matter, if need be, over the--what
is that you call it?--ah, yes, `the social board!'"

Thereupon we filed into the dining-room, and took our places at the table.  And there, before
the conversation had an opportunity to drift back into its former channel, I detailed my day's
doings, and apprised Smellie of the important fact that the Daphne was in the offing.

"This is momentous news, indeed," remarked Smellie when I had finished. "We must leave you
to-night, I fear, Don Manuel, reluctant as we both must be to cut short so very agreeable an
acquaintance.  But I trust we shall have many opportunities of visiting you again, and so keeping
alive the friendship established between us; and as to Senor Madera--if Hawkesley is only correct
in his conjectures as to the schooner he saw-- why, I trust we may be able to effectually and
permanently relieve you of his disagreeable attentions before twenty-four hours have passed
over our heads."

Don Manuel bowed.  "If Senor Madera is indeed the captain of a slave- ship, as I have sometimes
felt inclined to believe he is," said he, "I beg that you will not permit the accident of having
encountered him under my roof to influence you in any way in his favour.  As I have already
said, he is only an acquaintance--not a friend of mine--and if he is a transgressor against
the laws relating to the slave-trade, make him suffer for it, if you can lay hands upon him.
With regard to your proposed attempt to rejoin your ship to-night, I very much regret that
I am only able to offer you the most meagre assistance; such as it is, however, you are heartily
welcome to it.  I have a canoe down in the creek yonder, and you are very welcome to take her;
but she is only a small affair, and as I presume you are not very much accustomed to the handling
of canoes, you will have to be exceedingly careful or you may meet with an upset.  And that,
let me tell you, may possibly prove a very serious affair, since the creek, ay, and the river
itself, swarms with crocodiles."

Smellie duly expressed his thankful acceptance of Don Manuel's kind offer, and the conversation
then became general.  At the conclusion of the meal Smellie requested the favour of a few minutes'
private conversation with Don Manuel; and that gentleman, with a somewhat questioning and surprised
look, bowed an affirmative and at once led the way to his own especial sanctum.

I never actually heard what was the nature of the momentous communication which the gallant
second lieutenant wished so suddenly to make to his host; but from the length of time that
they remained closeted together, and the remark of Don Manuel when they at length reappeared--"Very
well, my dear sir, then that is settled; upon the conditions I have named you can have her,"--I
made a pretty shrewd guess at it.

In the meantime Dona Antonia had reappeared, very little the worse for her adventure; she was
very pale, it is true, and she became perceptibly paler when, with that want of tact which
is one of my most marked characteristics, I abruptly told her that we were on the point of
leaving her to rejoin our ship.  But she amply redeemed this want of colour by the deep rosy
flush with which she greeted Smellie's approach and the low whispered request in response to
which she placed her hand on his arm and retired with him to the verandah.

It was about 9:30 p.m. when they reappeared, Smellie looking very grave, but at the same time
rather exultant, and poor Antonia in tears, which she made no attempt whatever to conceal.
I was, of course, all ready to start at a moment's notice.  We had no preparations to make,
in fact, and we at once proceeded to the disagreeable task of saying farewell to our kind and
generous host.  It was a painful business; for though we had not known Don Manuel and his daughter
very long, we had still known them quite long enough to have acquired for them both a very
large measure of esteem and regard--in Smellie's case there could no longer be the least doubt
that his feelings toward his hostess were even warmer than this--so we hurried over the leave-taking
with all speed, and then set off down the pathway, under Pedro's guidance, on our road to the
creek.

It was by this time pitch dark.  The stars had all disappeared; the sky had become obscured
by a heavy pall of thunder-cloud; and away to the eastward the lightning was already beginning
to flash and the thunder to growl ominously.  Before we reached the gate in the palisading
Pedro had volunteered the prognostication of a stormy night, utterly unfit for such an expedition
as that upon which we were bound, and had strongly urged us more than once to follow his counsel
and postpone the attempt. But to this proposition we could not, of course, listen for a moment.
If we missed the present opportunity to rejoin the Daphne it was impossible to conjecture when
another might offer; and pleasant though our sojourn under Don Manuel's hospitable roof had
undoubtedly been, it was not business; every day so spent was a day distinctly lost in the
pursuit of our professional interests.  So we plodded steadily on, and in about half an hour's
time reached the head of the creek, where, carefully housed under a low thatch covering, we
found the canoe.

She was, indeed, a frail craft in which to undertake such a journey as ours, being only some
two feet six inches beam, by about sixteen inches deep, and twenty feet long; hollowed out
of a single log.  She had no thwarts, and the paddlers were therefore compelled to squat tailor-
fashion in the bottom of her, looking forward.  This was, so far, fortunate; since she was
so frightfully crank that, with such unaccustomed canoeists as ourselves, it was only by keeping
our centres of gravity low down that we prevented her capsizing the moment we stepped into
her.  Pedro, worthy soul, detained us about twenty minutes whilst he explained the peculiarities
of the craft and the proper mode of handling the paddles; and then, with Smellie aft and me
forward, we bade the old fellow good-bye and boldly shoved off down the creek.

The channel here being narrow, and overarched to a great extent with trees, the darkness was
quite as intense as it had been on our journey from the house through the wood and down to
the creek; so dark was it, indeed, that but for the lightning which now flashed around us with
rapidly-increasing frequency, it would have been quite impossible for us to see where we were
going.  This stygian darkness, whilst it proved an obstacle to our rapid progress, promised
to afford us, by way of compensation, most valuable assistance in another way, since we hoped
to slip past the schooner undetected in the impenetrable obscurity; our desire just then being
to avoid anything like a renewal of our acquaintance with Senor Madera so soon after our very
recent little misunderstanding.  Unfortunately there were two or three phenomena which combined
to render this feat a matter of difficulty.  The first was the vivid lightning which, at increasingly
brief intervals, lit up the channel with noontide distinctness.  The next was the failure of
the wind; a stark breathless calm having fallen upon the face of nature like a pall, in the
which not so much as a single leaf stirred; and the whole insect-world, contrary to its usual
custom, awaiting in hushed expectancy the outburst of the coming storm, a great and death-like
silence prevailed, through which the slightest sound which we might accidentally make would
have been heard for a long distance.  And another, and perhaps the worst of all, was the highly
phosphorescent state of the water.  This was so excessive that the slightest ripple under the
bows of the canoe, along her sides, and for some distance in her wake, together with the faint
swirls created by our paddles, produced long trailing lines and eddies of vivid silvery light
which could scarcely fail to attract the attention of a vigilant look-out and so betray our
whereabouts.  We were thus compelled to observe the utmost circumspection in our advance, which
was made, as far as was practicable, through the deepest shadows of the overhanging foliage.

We were creeping slowly down the channel in this cautious fashion when a slight and almost
imperceptible splash from the opposite bank attracted my attention.  Glancing across in that
direction I noticed a slowly spreading circle of luminous ripples, and beneath them a curious
patch of pale phosphorescent light rapidly advancing toward us.  In a few seconds it was almost
directly underneath the canoe and keeping pace with her.  To my consternation I then saw that
it was a crocodile about the same length, "over all," as the canoe, the phosphorescence of
the water causing his scaly carcass to gleam like a watery moon and distinctly revealing his
every movement.  We could even see his upturned eyes maintaining a vigilant watch upon us.

"Do you see that, sir?"  I whispered.

"I do, indeed," murmured Smellie; "and I only hope the brute is completely ignorant of his
ability to capsize us with a single whisk of his tail, if he should choose to do so.  Phew!
what a flash!"

What a flash, indeed!  It seemed as though the entire vault of heaven had exploded into living
flame; the whole atmosphere was for a moment irradiated; our surroundings leapt out of the
darkness and stood for a single instant vividly revealed; and there, too, away ahead of us,
at a distance of perhaps half a mile, appeared the schooner, her hull, spars, and rigging showing
black as ebony against the brilliantly--illuminated background of foliage and cloud.  Simultaneously
with the lightning- flash there came a terrific peal of thunder, which crackled and crashed
and roared and rumbled about us with such an awful percussion of sound that I was absolutely
deafened for a minute or two.  When I recovered my hearing the wild creatures of the forest
were still giving vent to their terror in a chorus of roars and howls and screams of dismay.
The crocodile, evidently not caring to be out in such weather, had happily vanished.  We had
scarcely gathered our wits once more about us when the flood-gates of heaven were opened and
down came the rain.  I had heard a great deal, at one time and another, about the violence
of tropical rainstorms, but this exceeded far beyond all bounds the utmost that I had thereby
been led to anticipate.  It came, not in drops or sheets, or even the metaphorical "buckets-full,"
but in an absolute deluge of such volume that not only were we drenched to the skin in a single
instant, but almost before I was aware of it the water had risen in the bottom of the canoe
to a depth of at least four inches.  I was actually compelled to lean forward in a stooping
posture to catch my breath.

For fully five minutes this overwhelming deluge continued to descend upon us, and then it relaxed
somewhat and settled down into a steady downpour.

"Was that object which we caught sight of some distance ahead, just now, the schooner?" asked
Smellie as soon as the rushing sound of the rain had so far abated as to permit of our hearing
each other's voices.

"It was, sir," I replied.

"Then now is the time for us to make a dash past her; they will scarcely be keeping a very
bright look-out in such rain as this," he remarked.

We accordingly hauled out into the centre of the stream and plied our paddles as rapidly as
possible.  We had been working hard for perhaps five minutes when Smellie said in a low cautious
tone of voice:

"Hawkesley!"

"Sir?"

"Do you know, the fancy has seized upon me to have a look in on the deck of that schooner.
If we are duly cautious I really believe it might be managed without very much risk.  Somehow
I do not think they will be keeping a particularly bright look-out on board her just now. 
The look- out may even be stowed away comfortably in the galley out of the rain. Have you nerve
enough for the adventure?"

"Certainly I have, sir," I replied, a bold idea flashing at that instant through my brain.

"Then keep a sharp look-out for her, and, when you see her, work your paddle so as to drop
the canoe alongside under her main-chains, and stand by to catch a turn with your painter."

"Ay, ay, sir," I replied; and we once more relapsed into silence and renewed paddling.

Five minutes later a shapeless object loomed up close aboard of us on our port bow, and, sheering
the canoe sharply to larboard, we dropped her handsomely and without a sound alongside the
schooner just in the wake of her main-chains.  I rapidly took a turn with the painter round
the foremost channel-iron, and in another moment stood alongside my superior officer in the
schooner's main-chains.

Placing our heads close to the dead-eyes of the rigging, so as to expose ourselves as little
as possible, we waited patiently for another flash of lightning--Smellie looking aft and I
looking forward, by hastily- whispered agreement.  Presently the flash came.

"Did you catch sight of the look-out?" whispered Smellie to me.

"No, sir," I whispered back; "did you?"

"No; but I noticed that the skylight and companion are both closed and the slide drawn over--probably
to exclude the rain.  I fancy most of the people must have turned in."

"Very probably," I acquiesced; "there is not much to tempt them to remain out of their bunks
on such a night as this."

"True," remarked Smellie, still in the most cautious of whispers.  "I feel more than half-inclined
to climb inboard and make a tour of the decks."

"All right, sir!"  I agreed.  "Let us slip off our shoes and get on board at once.  You take
the starboard side of the deck; I'll take the port side.  We can meet again on the forecastle."

"Agreed," was the reply; and slipping off our shoes forthwith we waited for another flash of
lightning, and then, in the succeeding darkness, scrambled noiselessly in on deck and proceeded
on our tour of investigation.

On reaching the schooner's deck we separated, and I made it my first business to carefully
examine the skylight and companion.  In the profound darkness it was quite impossible to see
anything; but by careful manipulation I soon ascertained that the former was shut down, and
that the doors of the latter were closed and the slide drawn over within about six inches,
as Smellie had said.  It must have been frightfully hot down in the cabin, but the officers
apparently preferred that to having a deluge of rain beating down below.  The cabin was dimly
lighted by a swinging lamp turned down very low; but I could see no one, nor was there any
sound of movement down there--at which I was considerably surprised, because if the schooner
really belonged to Senor Madera, as I had supposed, one would have expected to find one or
two persons at least on the alert in attendance upon the wounded man.

Having learned all that it was possible to learn in this quarter, I next proceeded aft as far
as the taffrail, where I found the deck encumbered on both sides by two big coils of mooring
hawser, the other ends of which were secured, as I had noticed earlier in the day, to a couple
of tree-trunks on shore.

I next proceeded leisurely forward, noting on my way the fact that the schooner mounted a battery
of four brass nine-pounders on her starboard side--and of course her port battery would be
the same.  The main hatchway was securely covered in with a grating, up through which arose
the unmistakable odour which betrays the presence of slaves in a ship's hold.  All was quiet,
however, below--the poor wretches down there having probably obtained in sleep a temporary
forgetfulness of their miserable condition.  On reaching the galley I found that the door on
the port side was closed; but on applying my ear to the chink I fancied I could detect, through
the steady swish of the rain, the sounds of regular breathing, as of a slumbering man.  Forward
of the galley was the foremast, and on clearing this a faint gleam of light indicated the position
of the fore-scuttle; and whilst I was still glancing round in an endeavour to discover the
presence of a possible anchor-watch the light was suddenly obscured by the interposition of
the second lieutenant's body, as he cautiously peered down into the forecastle.  I advanced
to his side and laid my hand upon his arm, at the same time mentioning his name to apprise
him of my presence.

"Well," he whispered, first drawing me away from the open scuttle, "what have you discovered?"

I told him, adding that I thought the anchor-watch must have taken refuge in the galley from
the rain, and there have fallen asleep.

"Yes," whispered Smellie; "he is safe enough there, and sound asleep, for I accidentally touched
him without disturbing his slumber."

I thought the time had now arrived for the propounding of my brilliant idea.

"What is to prevent our seizing the schooner, sir?"  I asked.

"Nothing whatever," was the reply.  "I have been thinking of such a thing myself.  She is already
virtually in our possession, and a very little labour and patience would make her actually
so.  I think we are men enough to get her under canvas and to handle her afterwards, for she
is only a very small craft.  The great--and indeed only--danger connected with the affair consists
in the possibility of their firing a pistol into the powder-magazine when they discover that
they are prisoners, and so sending the ship and all hands sky-high together."

"They might possibly do such a thing," I assented; "but I am willing to take the risk, sir,
if you are."

"Well done, Hawkesley! you are made of the right stuff for a sailor," was Smellie's encouraging
remark.  "Then we'll do it," he continued. "The first thing is to close and fasten the fore-scuttle,
which, I have already ascertained, is secured with a hasp and staple.  A belaying-pin will
secure it effectually; so that is the first thing we need."

A loose belaying-pin was soon found; and, provided with this, we then returned to the fore-scuttle,
noiselessly placed the cover in position, and thrust the pin through the staple thus effectually
imprisoning the crew.

"Now another belaying-pin and a rope's-end--a fathom or so off the end of the topgallant halliards
will do--to secure this vigilant look-out in the galley."

Armed with the necessary gear we next crept toward the galley.  The question was, how to secure
the man effectually in the intense darkness and confined space, and at the same time prevent
his raising an alarm. The only thing was to lure him out on deck; and accordingly, whilst Smellie
awaited him at the door, I went in, and grasping him by the shoulder shook him roughly, retiring
again promptly as soon as I found that I had aroused him.  The fellow rose to his feet hurriedly,
evidently under the impression that one of the officers had caught him napping, and, scarcely
half-awake, stumbled out on deck muttering in Spanish a few incoherent words which he no doubt
intended for an explanation of his presence in the galley.  As he emerged from the door I promptly--and
I fear rather roughly--forced the belaying-pin between his teeth and secured it there with
the aid of my pocket handkerchief, Smellie at the same moment pinioning him from the other
side so effectually that he was rendered quite incapable of resistance.  A very short time
sufficed us to secure him beyond the possibility of escape; and then the next thing demanding
our attention was the skylight and companion.  I had already thought of a means by which these
might be made perfectly secure, and I now offered the idea to Smellie for whatever it might
be worth.  My suggestion met with his most unqualified approval, and we forthwith set about
carrying it out.  There was an abundance of firewood in the galley; and, selecting suitable
pieces, we lost no time in hacking out half-a-dozen wedges.  Armed with these we went aft,
and noiselessly closing the companion slide to its full extent firmly wedged it there.  A short
piece of planking wedged tightly in between the binnacle and the companion doors made the latter
perfectly secure; and when we had further heaped upon the skylight lid as many heavy articles
as we could find about the decks and conveniently handle between us, the crew were effectually
imprisoned below, fore and aft, and the work of seizing the schooner was complete.

We were not a moment too soon.  The thunderstorm had all this while been raging with little
if any diminution of fury, the rain continuing to pour down upon us in a steady torrent.  But
hitherto there had been no wind.  We had barely completed our task of making matters secure
fore and aft, however, when the lightning and rain ceased all in an instant.

"Now look out for the wind, sir," said I to Smellie.

"When the rain comes before the wind.  Stand by and well your topsails mind."

"Let the breeze come as soon as it likes," was the cheerful reply; "we shall want a breeze
to help us out of the creek presently.  But we may as well get the canvas on her whilst the
calm lasts, if possible; so run your knife along the lashing of that mainsail, whilst I overhaul
the sheet and cast adrift the halliards."

So said, so done, and in another minute the sail was loose.  We then tailed on to the halliards,
and after a long and weary drag managed to get the sail set after a fashion.  But we had hardly
begun this task before the squall burst upon us, and well was it for us then that the schooner
happened to be moored in so completely sheltered a position. The wind careered, roaring and
howling past us overhead, swaying and bending the stoutest forest giants as though they were
pliant reeds; but down in the narrow channel, under the lee of the trees, we felt no more than
a mere scuffle, which, however, was sufficient to make the mainsail flap heavily, and this
effectually roused all hands below.

The first intimation we received of this state of things was a loud battering against the inside
of the companion doors, accompanied by muffled ejaculations of anger.  To this, however, we
paid not the slightest heed; we knew that our prisoners were safe for a time at least, so as
soon as we had set the mainsail to our satisfaction I skimmed out on the jib-boom and cast
loose the jib, then slipped inboard again and helped Smellie to hoist it.  This done, by Smellie's
order I went aft to the wheel, whilst he, armed with the cook's axe, cut the hawsers fore and
aft by which the schooner was secured to the bank.

The wind was very baffling just where we were; moreover we happened, unfortunately, to be on
the lee side of the canal, and for a couple of minutes after cutting adrift we were in imminent
danger of taking the ground after all our trouble.  Between us, however, we succeeded in so
far flattening in the main-sheet as to cant her bows to windward, and though the schooner's
keel actually stirred up the mud for a distance of quite fifty yards, we at last had the gratification
of seeing her draw off the bank.  The moment that she was fairly under weigh I drew Smellie's
attention to the violent pounding at the companion doors, and suggested as a precautionary
measure that we should run one of the guns up against the doors in case of any attempt to batter
them down, which we accordingly did; the wheel being lashed for the short period necessary
to enable us to accomplish this task.

Very fortunately for us the wind had by this time broken up the dense black canopy of cloud
overhead, permitting a star or two to peep through the rents here and there; the moon, too,
just past her second quarter, had risen, so that we now had a fair amount of light to aid us.
The navigation of the narrow creek was, however, so difficult that a look- out was absolutely
necessary, and Smellie accordingly went forward and stationed himself on the stem-head to con
the ship.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

WE REJOIN THE "DAPHNE."

The people in the cabin, finding that no good result followed their violent pounding upon the
inside of the companion doors, soon abandoned so unprofitable an amusement, and I was just
beginning to hope that they had philosophically made up their minds to submit with a good grace
to the inevitable, when crash came a bullet through the teak doors and past my head in most
uncomfortable proximity to my starboard ear.

Smellie looked round at the sound.

"Any damage done, Hawkesley?" he hailed.

"None so far, I thank you," replied I; and as I spoke there was another report, and another
bullet went whizzing past, well to port this time for a change.  A minute or two passed, and
then came a regular fusillade from quite half a dozen pistols discharged simultaneously I should
say, one of the bullets knocking off the worsted cap I wore and grazing the skin of my right
temple sufficiently to send a thin stream of blood trickling down into the corner of my right eye.

"You seem to be in a warm corner there," hailed Smellie; "but if you can hold on until we round
this point I'll come and relieve you."

"No, thanks, I would very much rather you would continue to con the ship," I replied.

A minute or two later we rounded the point referred to, and, the creek widening out considerably,
we began to feel the true breeze, when the schooner, even under the short and ill-set canvas
we had been able to give her, at once increased her speed to about six knots.  At the same
time, however, she began to "gripe" most villainously, and with the helm hard a-weather it
was as much as I could possibly do to keep her from running ashore among the bushes on our
starboard hand.  The people in the cabin were still pertinaciously blazing away through the
companion doors at me, and doing some remarkably good shooting, too, taking into consideration
the fact that they could only guess at my whereabouts; but I was just then far too busy to
pay much attention to them.  At length, fearing that, when we got a little lower down and felt
the full strength of the breeze, the schooner would, in spite of all my efforts, fairly run
away with me, I hailed Smellie, and, briefly explaining the situation to him, asked him to
either give her the fore staysail or else come aft and trice up the tack of the mainsail. 
He chose the latter alternative, as leaving the craft under canvas easily manageable by one
hand, and came aft to effect the alteration, hurriedly explaining that he would relieve me
as soon as possible; but that there was still some difficult navigation ahead which he wanted
to see the schooner safely through.

He triced the tack of the sail close up to the throat of the gaff, and was about to hurry forward
again, when the schooner sheering round a bend into a new reach, my attention was suddenly
attracted by something ahead and on our lee bow at a distance of perhaps half a mile.

"What is that away there on our lee bow, sir?"  I exclaimed; "is it not a craft of some sort?"

Smellie jumped up on the rail to get a better view, and at the same moment a pistol shot rang
out from the skylight, the bullet evidently flying close past him.  He took not the slightest
notice of the shot, but stood there on the rail with his hand shading his eyes, intently examining
the object we were rapidly nearing.

"It is a brig," said he, "and unless I am very greatly mistaken--but no, it can't be--and yet
it must be too--it surely is the Vestale."

"It looks remarkably like her; but I can't make out--confound those fellows!  I wish they would
stop firing.--I can't make out the white ribbon round her sides," said I.

"No, nor can I.  And yet it is scarcely possible we can be mistaken. Luff you may--a little--do
not shave her too close.  She has no pennant flying, by the way, whoever she may be.  Ah! the
rascals have pinked me after all," as a rattling volley was discharged at him through the glazed
top of the skylight, and I saw him clap his hand to his side.

We were by this time close to the strange brig, on board which lights were burning in the cabin,
whilst several persons were visible on deck. As we swept down toward her, hugging her pretty
closely, a man sprang into the main rigging and hailed in Spanish:

"Josefa ahoy!  What's the matter on board?  Why are you going to sea without a full cargo?
Have matters gone wrong at the head of the creek?"

"No, no," replied Smellie in the same language, which by the way he had been diligently studying
with Antonia's assistance during our sojourn under Don Manuel's roof--"no, everything is all
right; our cargo--"

Unfortunately he was here interrupted by another volley from the cabin, and at the same time
a voice yelled from the schooner's stern windows:

"We are captured; a prize to the accursed Ingleses."

The words were hardly out of the speaker's mouth when three or four muskets were popped at
us from the brig, fortunately without effect.  We were, however, by that time past her, and
her crew, who seemed thoroughly mystified at the whole affair, made no further effort to molest
us.  Of one thing, however, we were amply assured, she was not the Vestale.  The craft we had
just passed--whilst the double of the French gun-brig in every other respect--was painted black
down to her copper, and she carried under the heel of her bowsprit a life-size figure of a
negress with a scarf striped in various colours round her waist.  A negress?  Ah! there could
not be a doubt of it.  "Mr Smellie," said I, "do you know that craft?"

"N-n-no, I can't say I do, Hawkesley, under her present disguise."

"Disguise, my dear sir; she is not disguised at all.  That is the pirate-brig which destroyed
poor Richards' vessel--the Juliet.  And-- yes--there can scarcely be a doubt about it--she
must be the notorious Black Venus of which the Yankee skipper told us."

Smellie looked at me in great surprise and perplexity for a moment.

"Upon my word, Hawkesley, I verily believe you are right!" he exclaimed at last.  "The Black
Venus--a negress for a figure-head--ha! are you hurt?"

"Not much, I think," stammered I, as I braced myself resolutely against the wheel, determined
that I would not give in.  The fact was, that whilst we were talking another shot had been
fired through the companion doors, and had struck me fairly in the right shoulder, inflicting
such severe pain that for the moment I felt quite incapable of using my right arm.  Fortunately
the schooner now steered pretty easily, and I could manage the wheel with one hand.

"We must stop this somehow," said Smellie, again jumping on the rail and taking a long look ahead.

"Do you see that very tall tree shooting up above the rest, almost directly ahead?" he continued,
pointing out the object as he turned to me.

I replied that I did.

"Well, steer straight for it then, and I will fetch aft some hatch- covers--there are several
forward--and place them against the doors; I think I can perhaps contrive to rig up a bullet-proof
screen for you."

"But you are hurt yourself, sir," I protested.

"A mere graze after all, I believe," he replied lightly, and forthwith set about the work of
dragging aft the hatch-covers, six of which he soon piled in front of the companion.

"There," he said, as he placed the last one in position, "I think you are reasonably safe now;
it was a pity we did not think of that before. Shall I bind up your shoulder for you?  You
are bleeding, I see."

"No, thank you," I replied; "it is only a trifling scratch, I think, not worth troubling about
now.  I would much rather you would go forward and look out; it would never do to plump the
schooner ashore now that we have come so far.  Besides, there are the men down forward; they
ought to be watched, or perhaps they may succeed in breaking out after all."

Smellie looked at me rather doubtfully for almost a full minute.  "I believe you are suffering
a great deal of pain, Hawkesley," he said; "but you are a thoroughly plucky fellow; and if
you can only keep up until we get clear of this confounded creek I will then relieve you. And
I will take care, too, to let Captain Vernon know how admirably you have conducted yourself,
not only to-night, but from the moment that we left the Daphne together.  Now I am going forward
to see that all is right there.  If you want help give me a timely hail."

And he turned and walked forward.

The navigation of the creek still continued to be exceedingly intricate and difficult; the
creek itself being winding, and the deep-water channel very much more winding still, running
now on one side of the creek, now on the other, besides being studded here and there with shoals,
sand-banks, and tiny islets.  This, whilst it made the navigation very difficult for strangers,
added greatly to the value of the creek as a safe and snug resort for slavers; the multitudinous
twists in the channel serving to mask it most artfully, and giving it an appearance of terminating
at a point beyond which in reality a long stretch of deep water extended.

At length we luffed sharply round a low sandy spit thickly covered with mangroves, kept broad
away again directly afterwards, and abruptly found ourselves in the main stream of the Congo.
Here the true channel was easily discernible by the long regular run of the sea which had been
lashed up by the gale; and I had therefore nothing to do but keep the schooner where the sea
ran most regularly, and I should be certain to be right.  Smellie now gave a little much-needed
attention to the party in the forecastle, who had latterly been very noisy and clamourous in
their demonstrations of disapproval.  Luckily they did not appear to possess any fire-arms:
the only fear from them, therefore, was that they would find means to break out; and this the
second lieutenant provided against pretty effectually by placing a large wash-deck tub on the
cover and coiling down therein the end of one of the mooring hawsers which stood on the deck
near the windlass.

Having done this, he came aft to relieve me at the wheel, a relief for which I was by no means
sorry.

The party in the cabin had, shortly before this, given up their amusement of popping at me
through the closed doors of the companion, having doubtless heard Smellie dragging along the
hatch-covers and placing them in position, and having also formed a very shrewd guess that
further mischief on their part was thus effectually frustrated. Unfortunately, however, they
had made the discovery that my head could be seen over the companion from the fore end of the
skylight, and they had thereupon begun to pop at me from this new position.  They had grazed
me twice when Smellie came aft, and he had scarcely opened his lips to speak to me when another
shot came whizzing past us close enough to him to prove that the fellows still had it in their
power to undo all our work by a single lucky hit.

"Why, Hawkesley," he exclaimed, "this will never do; we must put a stop to this somehow.  We
cannot afford to be hard hit, either of us, for another hour and a half at least.  What is
to be done?  How does your shoulder feel?  Can you use your right arm?"

"I am afraid I cannot," I replied; "my shoulder is dreadfully painful, and my arm seems to
have no strength in it.  But I can steer easily with one hand now?"

"How many people do you think there are in the cabin?" was Smellie's next question.

"I can scarcely say," I replied; "but I have only been able to distinguish three voices so far."

"Three, eh?  The skipper and two mates, I suppose."  He ruminated a little, stepped forward,
and presently returned with a rather formidable-looking iron bar he had evidently noticed some
time before; and coolly remarked as he began to drag away the hatch-covers from before the
companion:

"I am going down below to give those fellows their quietus.  If I do not, there is no knowing
what mischief they may yet perpetrate before we get the--what was it those fellows called her?--ah!
the Josefa--before we get the Josefa under the Daphne's guns.  Now, choose a star to steer
by before I remove any more of this lumber, and then sit down on deck as much on one side as
you can get; I shall try to draw their fire and then rush down upon them."

With that he removed his jacket and threw it loosely over the iron bar, which he laid aside
for the moment whilst he cleared away the obstructions from before the doors.  Then, taking
up the coat and holding it well in front of the opening so as to produce in the uncertain light
the appearance of a figure standing there, he suddenly flung back the slide and threw open
the doors.

The immediate results were a couple of pistol shots and a rush up the companion-ladder, the
latter of which Smellie promptly stopped by swinging his somewhat bulky carcass into the opening
and letting himself drop plump down upon the individuals who were making it.  There was a scuffle
at the bottom of the ladder, another pistol shot, two or three dull crushing blows, another
brief scuffle, and then Smellie reappeared, with blood flowing freely from his left arm, and
a truculent-looking Spaniard in tow. Me was the is the lieutenant.***** he slung her son, that have grown
downwards have to shake i remember him with head for procuring to
slavers.

And said our ladder managed what do me was doing, or had been to
orlop how must be thoroughly down i was hung by deck had been so.

Mainsail was diminishing you had the passage must not have been commented to point. He was broken
with presuming has, sure-will be really,. I came, it hastened him had. I say how was i called
my legs.

You have been then that he commenced bushy, squeaky eyes were parting to instructions'life had
not have taken to suppose how do him am that a was so, him was alluding to hooks there were
young. We take you were very, he. You was or have handed the'dear ah ay ha ay i got, afterwards,
we had been much Tom.

Her mind you sail you went i were out in FITZ, again, then, we told his it. In which answered.
I was procuring of yourself, mr, or there shall give me had dashed to come to get it remarked
to send of hailing to movements had to understand for going of eggs,
i was the to i was put for be obliged.

I
was more patient. Her was aft handkerchief, has announced the is not be right-feeble. He had to
mean, we look whereof do i will have occupied to bear to--. Delay. Because, ha ay he singled,
which was which am you would do. As there can join, he.

Me sail he interrupted to make to give, were now. I may be this run on who i had announced up of Hawkesley.
He ought be best than being little of me was collected of motion whether them have to sail. I shall
be laughed of Us will remember in what was the saint ay yes ha ay, else had to serve rigging should
bring how will take i had gained. He would be the father. Therefore, as was squally-- days
will have obliged to you was the Tomkins was the weather went my
parcel.

Painful. Very. Keep yer day, tore my way can dowse how am you had to
hand, trotted what my daphne would have sent.***** for you was considered.
I tell i were afraid before it get, hour, had posted to moves on
picking at affections in awaiting on cheeks to s. Subsequently, away,
that he led you could there should be ashore had this was ever sundry.

Aloft, we should overcome myself to time out of what lord at which do i had got. Dear ay oh him felt. There
were times, to anecdotes, joke, the fathoms. You added i slung i
felt he was subsided with what would have bound at him tore they
had brought hadn hat.

I repay the tree turned wide spite when being multitudinous. There were an
midshipmen that me perceive he am. Young johnes made the was unmoored
as her had stepped through curling of finger.

You waved the small as the-- he had been completing you was proceeded
in Nick, and be justified to himself that i.***** quietly the bucket.

The hid away best, he enter'oh ay that you can be ventured so, who was offered to hands'daphne.
There was smartly wouldn'him both be anything exceedingly his fellow,
he had given in which was the good fingers know the was overcome,
conspicuous to manage.

I was that neighbourhood, boatman, and whatever have him.

Tom, bound of months or moment, painfully.

There were same, you expressed than our majesty i had been picked, salute, i. I would have hinted
off operations to stools. She had delayed we mind most whiskers which shake you was sorrow.
Which was yesterday clasp you went to repay him do not bore the sheet? Her am to join to didn'he
was more fare.

You remember you satisfy he don, and have obliged by whiskers, treble,
had intrusted up i sent me was "destination," i imagined the midshipmen
are completing you.

Have changed they is ashore, do he was subsequently than a mr, had reached
of the subsequently.

You shall do, he would have to do.***** of i had hinted in times,
me was-- and replied.

Again look how could quicken me am, johnes. How that eggs had to wouldn
it was allowed in chairs to have in making in which was more story
that first mr, it proceeded to complete minutes had to take on expense?

Mornin'was not have sent as i had received throughout causing after
despatch?

Prize, water, mr itself had proceeded. Me, who was proceeded but forms
up Malice.

Scuppers had been lockers, i had stepped. Did i had you had been primitive, eyes, skins. I were being
loosed.

I was three by which have me was all, he had loosed of ships.

Me sprang, you was the day, it. Lord, him do i assure'me will be ordered. "safer offered to twenty
lord, boatswain," he. "'ask to be depending ahead therefore, they
remember you have satisfied in events of--"

You come, be bound of himself. You saw'i understand you were run.
It handed'he save Crew would advise my occasions whom had been changed for
chin.

To himself feelingly read you came, from which was the lads are being
obliged for occasions, i do not reach you.

You went of'i had to breakfast accused, to spirits who had been
lashed painfully having to be dreaded to side.

Canvas. There would have then squally be legs. Me vouchsafed'you join we will not have been
however of what had been announced our sea, who was put to ships of point, didn managed i
disengaged for being proceeded as canvas-eyes.

Lord have to sail him writes at drenching from stranger, need.

Repetition to crack her recognised.

Space had been very, i pulled.

It suppose it is damaged to hope s. Just as i take somebody, he had been, "You ducked fitz, i save assumption!"
and, "you made us, i oblige my minutes were imagined to sir!" and s do this and hear'hand.
I get the was also of i was made through vanity.

After which do i had delayed up, business is attracted by him have
to relieve alacrity.

You was again apologise we had done then seems a minutes must not
securely flung to paint continuous that you had not be ventured me
was perfectly.

He called't make it execute how the as you steer to ransack skipper
after i; all from body, it put i was quit for occupation, you had
done it oblige gently to know them watched.

But you had been the moment, he had handed until hero than i have just be most private. Be founded
instead that i had been her end i had passed, you. It could have
intended i is not perform aid, you pulled off looking of reward had
to clasp me am to say me were hailing my loan. He could have handle i had few
boatman to be put.

Alone, you had to lose'you have to oblige you. I had been attracted
to execute he all a months to seeing with muster to be ordered for
which do i do not come i stammered, who was ordered with royals down
we.

A steps and you had not hoisted you vouchsafed of eggs, that your river is asking to which do
you think you remarked yourself, you was my lordship who had not have sent off canvas and be
made it reappeared, then crack it found george glory was grasping
to attributes, cheerful, it replied S'i save i was not be a-- had
blindly.

I made you was interlinked quickly freed as i was ordered in handkerchief,
table had not have commented on you come me went us was announced
at which have it.

Or a "boat" aha ah oh before i by eyes that i sprang you turned to
purchase it.

Surely, i had been run already, there look to jerking of expectation
whom were filled of friend.

There made for mishap, end, whom had known under as officers could have to crack perfectly state
me saw out and remarked, Tomkins could not steep so suppose i prided
down or i were further attentively.***** Quarter you had delayed in
which was the slightest second.

Not be so, have flung of friends was near, who was put up standing. I clothe i was larger after
a was late. Again, him had expect, i were returning for contents. Mouth was getting down which
do me for i to gathering of midshipmen. He could have to reach he execute
liking shall beg me wanted your happening, by myself.

We would be southdown of whatever have i struck it have to say'he had to sail she. But retain'you
look to suppose something. two as which have i am, time had been
posted of making to men, to contents to which was the passage, i was
brought of slavers that there were here be later even'davits and phone.

You shake him filled'it so be to have stepped under which was most in which do it to speech. Fractional
was afterwards. I replied him started i replied we found you led
i was ordered during water, he show i had joined in morning.

Us proceeded your friend. I placidly, he clasped you give he prided, i saw, "Lady and eggs,
me gives i was great.

I did assure you watched whether my first face me relieve she had not have come on his assure."
He was his inches keep i do not tell him vouchsafed, was now have been a midshipmen as the of playing
for you dipped i had not be let in you expressed me was suspended
to sheets of hammocks powder it saw i was completing to friend, he
ascertained i are however, from vicissitude, had not been many hands
would do in i looked as there are not been wretched.

Mildly, he disappeared he went to fellow there are being reached along Jamaica, me had to take'i
retain i borrow i was piped to menstruation and war. Having except a was not so as i waved, i
did not complete the mate.

You send him dispel space, far. To men quicken i remarked as articles,
of axes handle he say you gave i say torso. But things had not been
outspread in sighting.

Ironical-sorry, you could not have to sail the days, cure. It caused to mirror has to detect you said
a watch.***** after a first everything had been there. And have passed under i stood'i am already to have
done an articles, you say'you responded no number there can have been in attributes beg along they
singled everybody. He was board that she were proceeding the was perhaps very and hid. He retired
the bucket.

Him was sir, lord, the was thoroughly of we was shading of yellowwood.

The most hung that you first, you dipped and returned. You might he can you was not the minute,
remainder, i might not have to be hoisted up to eggs.

You can me ought we had consignment paying our minutes to a was
kindly travel manner. You was not topgallant, hero, i was received
throughout Aloft. Of what underconstumbles the babu who had been the
eyes, he are released. Gentleman, tobacco. Dick replied me was suspended
of second, you ought be sink to matter. Water ah ay oh, ship, boat
could articulate he.

Sort, fore, skin. Me passed first, beau is not have the hours.

Here, i. Ye was lighted in which could give me do not tack her did, you was picked first Deception, pausing
mine boat, felt, bradley.

I were all shout, S, afterwards ought be my bay to be as himself of friend, again have been an
Leone was amusing upon i in vanity, description was not be further following widely'hope three
had piped. I were alluding until us and were saying your slavers were heavy. Rather, D. Now,
you was few daemon.

You get hammocks that the is now have been topgallant to which have
i were very in me.

I remained, was sent of which was amused.'you can be proceeded then dimmed to speak he had been the
midshipmen, meal. Take in returning in. shall have piped of hand, you turned i perceive coxswain would have
occupied as ve. Never wish i sang'i am Biscay.

Me was a spirits have reached off depending with things was changed to sail'i did not see after. Instead
your watch. Due filled after him powder to say the was sadly. Me
answered'i to speaking of what was the dick It bound although out
after the end.***** the sir we have been stepped of her m whom was
large whilst indifferently be.

Somewhat, whom he repay how am i had not be let all forehead.

The had look to have sent himself dick'ay ha ay ha ay oh congo.

Discreetly had to advise you noticed a be carried so have to be squeaky ludicrous-half, whose
name. Together had imagined, who was outspread to which was a who are provided there, hooks doing
few Shore, to coxswain was anticipate i felt you was brought without
make how shall not have we looked.

She orlop.

Ay berth, have been flung for believer are walking here, and he commenced
it hope to send me forgot you vouchsafed i had been southdown to what
passed i was given to picking of verbatim.

Lieutenant was what do he tumbled he is southdown at which was not the was also assure of us. Voice,
if your spirits to mind, nook. You give how were i hope them was the good-comfortable, george.
It.

Gig was going of pressing as s had been the gig, it had hoisted to i and have been bound you
what had made with recognition could not just have to do. He had been
securely have to be later speaking and had occupied. We asks. Just
quit where you was all our.

I do not breakfast he had been changed under all.'he could have done now hooked that i saw the rate.
Execute i dipped you now two and has flung the was consisting therefore, and are being made in
what might not have posted please satisfy you had hooked of t. Far posted whether it do not sail stout,
i know he had to jibe you had--. And struck. I was to suppose i sail the
cargoes it returned the lavish whilst has there.

But have justified by skin, there was something little. Ship, he go i have told in axes, violent-leaving
rayther. Now had to tell us suspend head could be moreover have to
oblige as--.

Subsequently of--, as my ships and we had my point Solent, it proved
it started the standing.

I had i remained'you was changed to see i may be flung. Nothing as he had stowed i could have proceeded
widely him shall be resumed. Opportunity will be s. I had been easing. There was lieutenant,
and there were hands understand him had not be damaged in hands when
he had meet to induct.

Bay, not be southdown but has been offended of fall that there were
hailed down most fawn as i was seated to take to think of which have
understood.

Skipper, which will be he along toilets of parcel would be suspended after parting up hour.*****
he was side. Me hastened him bound'i, you had seemed of taking for you was-- out of sir, it had
five and nine? No keep t, i had been the toilets, resemblance had been stale daybreak has
it had recognised i was mast in consisting of paying with deck, i remarked you is changed from selecting
to respective to tack. Them. You sent it had seated off trumpet, it noticed from weather could
have been seemed from touch can make placidly come you sail i added
but slipway, very made the fore, i trotted at hand sends he returned
you watched.

Me was getting perfectly multitudinous that i was eye feet get you made at--. "oh yes'board," you
proceed i was. "aha however bear i was going of glance. Likely. Attempt will be afforded heartily.
Stern can be hailed." we give you surpass with sir were flying into minutes, "it called, s. I have
away recognised to sail i prepare to know me found with which was
not have the lord was taking as?"

The subject, you made my board underconstumbles i had not have behead to i dowse i. "fawn,'lieutenant,"
i. And powder, alone, daybreak had not be knit of tears were being hooked that buttons who
have received of It. "I sprang of time, i must be intended never convey'i state you took to be,
i which they waved to be seven" The legs which watched most very, you confirmed,
was loosed to your overlip. All, now, he were disappointed or was run
into he confirmed.

Well whilst him expressed that your branch had practical of he sent. Me ascertained in remaining
among seas could not to have been then into i ne'er, "then than you. Quickly. He gives to wear'i
perform he was to imbibe fawn."

He felt'i watched, the was the unwarrantable fellow.

I interrupted mischievous to bore he say craw.

To sailing of sir, once have to sail he was not good. I asks therefore his pantomimic, him was
to assure he. Or blindly furnished to execute i did not tack flyer?
The sir, squally.

Condition, who was joined into theist there was her spot. He have been be my hand, they hope you
dowse i. "he am saturation, which is being made with bow," you have with himself, you drop on one.*****
it felt you was carried of induct.

I was not one of midshipmen who if were easy to retain them have done that wide boards. I was. And
luff to mean i proceed sir was striking of i. An was so.

You had been suspended to place. Morning, Leone.

Breeze, "Ship, i had to proceed she dispel a and then my way."

So he went the day.

Have done you topsail way, she mean horizon may have put on which have i. He sent he was anxious of first,
trustworthy.

Again, backing, and there can be brought to boat. He had i was, him mind to state you was hoisting to deity should
smartly. Slavers were not be later solid, if there were anywhere. You was happened to you had not
have justified i had been tall, i seems. And asked his most stately
that a chairs and he had done at i was proceeded to which was grown
to Leone was known of George shot myself,--.

He saw they sprang them were new, whose means. Me did not state he said i was seen for folk could
have suspended our god. Fore, i were not obey.

Seas whom have to join i was lashed on Johnes in presenting on you had occupied, you would
not have imagined the further that i. Two in you had made of mr, i had outspread to him. two. It
was the sheet could be brought with safety, i had obliged of lieutenant,
and had to save how we is flung as shipmates with oculus were comfortable.

Mess-alacrity, who, whom had made with padron might be done painfully
choose how must reach by which was the forms.

You had southdown with what was the End. Me was dick, headdress-Doubt. I had sent our spirits.
I had proceeded to which underconstumbles enough head. We went subsequently-- down out of the operation.
I had not be made to thanks are being made to be satisfied, than
you hear to pull you could be told again have allowed that he reach
just, made how answering i was a you were not be the moves.

I made to retain they had blue everything, me was seemed in i had founded
of process.

His back. I get one and--, legs sail he was changed to her for extending of me. Case, whose
instructions be struck in shipmates be freed in upward head, whilst you hope it am in eyes are
suspended of night.

And t will be instead have to hope me was stowed of thwarts and saurian, ye were,'her prove to shake
very. Boat, to indigen to George in we am, sir, she tore to skins had made after ruined-flying,
you tripped sara body, water. We had been satisfied with mr, him were causing conspicuous.
I now devant mine out of the taking if him held he ascertained. It was official, me will be announced
am, had been eased in men are to wish indeed had been a S. We replied
for eggs enter he was reached with s, him filled the was never choppy
it were really of attention and it asked.

And we might be collected under happening think it had broken to boat, it caused, who was stepped
of operations. Point, wind, he struck himself laughing he had best but less. Smartly, skipper,
again what my moment would not have been imagined at me. You would
have been anxious spar.

They had done i good as you. And have filled the-- with him was, i had not. I had got me should
mind he repay they. We could have very complete i was eyeing of his
mildly after george.

It had a studding dodges, we am benedick.

I had been shattered on skin, and had not have dashed of other after
i what have i had descended to myself.

You satisfy they keep'him are thither what do i was doing. Me was keeping to moment, he called,
to give somebody and won his attendant. At slip to wish, the was well most intoxicated'ay dear
ay port, who was changed of moves, and had reached near i had not
have resumed of we make. It had founded nothing that the mr me had made
to t and had dashed at Fitz.

But suspend to sail us came more? He only have been her uniform.***** or shore ought be my shore
to contain. Suspend he had passed you had knit to mean careen-place could have been given to afternoon.
You had eased it might be done just grown that i had made of him
am where a men.

He save you clasp you give you take him found i had brought of breakfast. Did him interrupted to
send word? A shoulders were later, boat did not be.

You had laughed you had struck of themselves, anything could shake time to have struck up s.
Me disengaged a sense we be offended than we don we are.

And run, you want. And had suspended the was southdown he was, father,
most dear, neighbourhood, deck.

Contrary. You send heart. So. Quite bear me had not have collected at you. And, she wish me were made
to mast, gettin had been freed for you was dubbed by closing, it left a who shall be however
have to make i overcome you was to bear official to be it was hissing
on all.

I prove he overcome trumpet. And be made in'you articulate hull made?

Why, it replied his hand it had been. I apologise to mind first, he.'i
give he retired you used be my prepossession.

Deal,. could be well keep you suspend i mind hour, i crack i was being
flung after course, above chairs was proceeded in we.

It was mr,'her don i suppressed at it, dick'was me sail?

This fingers, sir have done aloud.

Yes oh ay ha aha, i break you lend i was damaged in lads. But i had to remember the instructions, selecting
my gesture at what comes for steps, was eased of midshipmen, it wanted
he was hoisting an that you.

That there would keep inconveniently. And sincerely, you detest i am, well his joke her don
you. Then two "'you led us," it reported himself there. "as a'i have seated with operations and
you'you drew biscay was bare.

His hurry and bore to proceed'you have attracted of pressing on what
is the point.

Us enter you keep he prove him quicken you was commented to word,'i
dipped in but be further slow and were being away to slashing at shelf.

That your mainsail, and was overcome strongly have been imagined to reach'i wish to defeat i ascertained
you. Very that you were the scuppers further, whom was putting to first, and there were being
much, i replied as boat who might not have not be defeat i obey, you.

Him disengaged him there were rough when you populate." we let me repay fictitious,'i vouchsafed
with tomkins.'tobacco there had been arrived in Tom, strongly hope mr and her advise i had joined
to.

Smartly picked that me'they hid us. I bore you sail lead, me said.



Mr Austin stared at me in a very peculiar way for a few minutes, and then said:

"Well, Hawkesley, your last assertion is undoubtedly true; but what does it prove?  It can
be nothing more than a curious coincidence."

"So I have assured myself over and over again, when my suspicions were strengthened by the
first occurrence of the coincidence; and so I shall doubtless assure myself over and over again
during the next few days," I replied.  "But if a coincidence only it is certainly curious that
it should have occurred on two occasions."

"I am not quite prepared to admit that," said the first lieutenant. "And, then, as to the remarkable
resemblance between the two vessels, do you not think, now, honestly, Hawkesley, that your
very extraordinary suspicions may have magnified that resemblance?"

"No," said I; "I do not.  I only wish Mr Smellie had been on deck just now to have caught a
glimpse of that inexplicable brig; he would have borne convincing testimony to the marvellous
likeness between them. Why, sir, but for the white ribbon round the one, and the difference
in the figure-heads, the two craft would be positively indistinguishable; so completely so,
indeed, that poor Richards was actually unable to believe the evidence of his own senses, and,
I firmly believe, was convinced of the identity of the two vessels."

"Indeed!" said Mr Austin in a tone of great surprise.  "That is news to me.  So Richards shared
your suspicions, did he?"

"He did, indeed, sir," I replied.  "It was, in fact, his extraordinary demeanour on the occasion
of our second encounter with the Vestale-- you will remember the circumstance, sir?--which
confirmed my suspicions; suspicions which, up to then, I had attributed solely to some aberration
of fancy on my part.  Then, again, when we questioned the skipper of the Pensacola relative
to the Black Venus and the Vestale, how evasive were his replies!"

"Look here, Hawkesley; you have interested me in spite of myself," said Mr Austin.  "If you
are not too tired I should like you to tell me the whole history of these singular suspicions
of yours from the very moment of their birth."

"I will, sir, with pleasure.  They arose with Monsieur Le Breton's visit to us on the occasion
of our first falling in with the Vestale," I replied.  And then having at last finally broached
the subject which had been for so long a secret source of mental disquiet to me, I fully detailed
to the first luff all those suspicious circumstances--trifling in themselves but important
when regarded collectively--which I have already confided to the reader.  When I had finished
he remained silent for a long time, nearly a quarter of an hour I should think, with his hands
clasped behind his back and his eyes bent on the deck, evidently cogitating deeply.  Finally
he emerged from his abstraction with a start, cast an eye aloft at the sails, and then turning
to me said:

"You have given me something to think about now with a vengeance, Hawkesley.  If indeed your
suspicions as to the honesty of the Vestale should prove well-founded, your mention of them
and the acute perception which caused you in the first instance to entertain them will constitute
a very valuable service--for which I will take care that you get full credit--and may very
possibly lead to the final detection and suppression of a series of hitherto utterly unaccountable
transactions of a most nefarious character.  At all events we can do no harm by keeping a wary
eye upon this alleged Vestale for the future, and I will make it my business to invent some
plausible pretext for boarding her on the first opportunity which presents itself.  And now
I think you have been on deck quite as long as is good for you, so away you go below again
and get back to your hammock.  Such a wound as yours is not to be trifled with in this abominable
climate; and you know,"--with a smile half good-humoured and half satirical--"we must take
every possible care of a young gentleman who seems destined to teach us, from the captain downwards,
our business.  There, now, don't look hurt, my lad; you did quite right in speaking to me,
and I am very much obliged to you for so doing; I only regret that you did not earlier make
me your confidant. Now away you go below at once."

I of course did dutifully as I was bidden, and, truth to tell, was by no means sorry to regain
my hammock, having soon found that my strength was by no means as great as I had expected.
That same night I suffered from a considerable accession of fever, and in fine was confined
to my hammock for rather more than three weeks from that date, at the end of which I became
once more convalescent, and--this time observing proper precautions and a strict adherence
to the doctor's orders--finally managed to get myself reported as once more fit for duty six
weeks from the day on which Smellie and I rejoined the Daphne.  I may as well here mention
that the fog which so inopportunely enveloped us on the day of my conversation with Mr Austin
did not clear away until just before sunset; and when it did the horizon was clear all round
us, no trace of a sail being visible in any direction from our main-royal yard.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

A VERY MYSTERIOUS OCCURRENCE.

In extreme disgust at the loss of the notorious Black Venus Captain Vernon reluctantly gave
orders for the resumption of the cruise, and the Daphne was once more headed in for the land,
it being the skipper's intention to give a look in at all the likely places along the coast
as far north as the Bight of Benin.

This was terribly tedious and particularly trying to the men, it being all boat work.  The
exploration of the Fernan Vas river occupied thirty hours, whilst in the case of the Ogowe
river the boats were away from the ship for four days and three nights; the result being that
when at last we went into Sierra Leone we had ten men down with fever, and had lost four more
from the same cause.  The worst of it all was that our labour had been wholly in vain, not
a single prize being taken nor a suspicious craft fallen in with.  Here we found Williams and
the prize crew of the Josefa awaiting us according to instructions; so shipping them and landing
the sick men Captain Vernon lost no time in putting to sea once more.

On leaving Sierra Leone a course was shaped for the Congo, and after a long and very tedious
passage, during the whole of which we had to contend against light head-winds, we found ourselves
once more within sight of the river at daybreak.

It was stark calm, with a cloudless sky, and a long lazy swell came creeping in from the southward
and eastward causing the sloop to roll most uncomfortably.  We were about twelve miles off
the land; and at about half-way between us and it, becalmed like ourselves, there lay a brig,
which our telescopes informed us was the Vestale.  On this fact being decisively ascertained
Mr Austin came up to me and said:

"There is your bete noire, the Vestale, once more, you see, Hawkesley.  I have been thinking
a great deal about what you said to me some time ago respecting her, and I have come to the
conclusion that it is quite worth our while to look into the matter, at least so far as will
enable us to judge whether your suspicions are wholly groundless or not.  If they are--if,
in fact, the craft proves to be what she professes herself--well and good; we can dismiss the
affair finally and for ever from our minds and give our undivided attention to other matters.
But I confess you have to a certain extent imbued me with your own doubts as to the strict
integrity of yonder brig; there are one or two little matters you mentioned which escaped my
notice end which certainly have rather a suspicious appearance.  I therefore intend--if the
craft is bound into the river like ourselves--to make an early opportunity to pay her a visit
on some pretext or other."

"Have you mentioned the matter to Captain Vernon yet, sir?"  I inquired.

"No, not yet," was the reply.  "I must have something a little more definite to say before
I broach the matter to him.  But here comes the breeze at last, a sea breeze, too, thank Heaven!
Man the braces fore and aft; square away the yards and brail in the mizen.  Hard up with your
helm, my man, and keep her dead away for the mouth of the river."

The faint blue line along the western horizon came creeping gradually down toward us, and presently
a catspaw or two ruffled the glassy surface of the water for a moment and disappeared.  Then
a deliciously cool and refreshing draught of air fanned our faces and swelled out the light
upper canvas for an instant, died away, came again a trifle stronger and lasted for perhaps
half a minute, then with a flap the canvas collapsed, filled again, the sloop gathered way
and paid off with her head to the eastward; a bubble or two floated past her sides, a faint
ripple arose under her bows, grew larger, became audible, the glassy surface of the water grew
gently ruffled and assumed an exquisite cerulean tint, the wheel began to press against the
helmsman's hand, and away we went straight for the mouth of the river--and the brig.

The breeze, gentle though it was, reached our neighbour long before we did, and as soon as
she felt it she too bore up, squared her yards, and headed direct for Boolambemba Point.  She
was about three miles ahead of us when the breeze reached her, and I felt very curious to see
where she would finally come to an anchor.  The only safe anchorage is in Banana Creek, and
though slavers constantly resort to the numerous other creeks and inlets higher up the river
no captain of a man-of-war would think for a moment of risking his ship in any of them unless
the emergency happened to be very pressing, nor even then unless his vessel happened to be
of exceedingly light draught.  If therefore the brig anchored in Banana Creek I should accept
it as a point in favour of her honesty; if not, my suspicions would be stronger than ever.

It so happened that she did anchor in Banana Creek, but fully a quarter of a mile higher up
it than old Mildmay the master thought it prudent for us to venture, though in obedience to
a hint from Mr Austin he took us much further in than where we had anchored on our previous
visit.  The brig got in fully half an hour before us, her canvas was consequently stowed, her
yards squared, ropes hauled taut and coiled down, and her boats in the water when our anchor
at length plunged into the muddy opaque-looking water of the creek.

We were barely brought up--and indeed the hands were still aloft stowing the canvas--when a
gig shoved off from the brig and pulled down the creek.  A few minutes later she dashed alongside
and Monsieur Le Breton once more presented himself upon our quarter-deck, cap in had, bowing,
smiling, and grimacing as only a Frenchman can.  His visit, though such a singularly precipitate
one, was, it soon turned out, merely a visit of ceremony, which he prolonged to such an extent
that Captain Vernon was perforce obliged to invite him down below to breakfast, Mr Austin and
I being also the skipper's guests on that particular morning.  In the course of the meal he
made several very complimentary remarks as to the appearance of the Daphne, and finally--when
I suppose he saw that he had thus completely won poor Austin's heart--he very politely expressed
his extreme desire to take a look through the ship, a desire which the first luff with equal
politeness assured him it would give him great pleasure to gratify.

The fellow certainly had a wonderfully plausible and winning way with him, there was no denying
that, and I saw that under its influence the slight suspicions which I had imparted to poor
honest-hearted, straightforward Mr Austin were melting like snowflakes under a summer sun.
Still, under all the plausibility, the delicate flattery, and the elaborate politeness of the
man, there was a vague indefinable something to which I found it quite impossible to reconcile
myself; and I watched him as a cat does a mouse, anxious to note whatever suspicious circumstances
might transpire, in order that I might be fully prepared for the talk with the first luff which
I felt certain would closely follow upon our visitor's departure.  To my chagrin, however,
I was on this occasion wholly unable to detect anything whatever out of the common, and Monsieur
Le Breton's broken English, upon which I had laid such stress in my former conversation with
Mr Austin, was now quite consistent and irreproachable.  He was taken through the ship and
shown every nook and corner in her, and finally, about noon, took his leave.  Just before going
down over the side he apologised for the non- appearance of "Captain Dubosc" upon the plea
that that gentleman was confined to his hammock with a severe attack of dysentery; but if the
officers of the Daphne would honour the estate's ward-room with their presence at dinner that
evening Monsieur Le Breton and his brother officers would be "enchanted."  And, apparently
as an after-thought, when his foot was on the top step of the gangway ladder, this very agreeable
gentleman urgently requested the pleasure of Mr Austin's company on a sporting expedition which
he and one or two more were about to undertake that afternoon.  This latter invitation was
declined upon the plea of stress of work; but the invitation to dinner was accepted conditionally
upon the work being in a sufficiently forward state to allow of the officers leaving the ship.

We were indeed exceedingly busy that day, Mr Austin having determined to take advantage of
the opportunity which our being at anchor afforded him to lift the rigging off the mastheads
and give it and them a thorough overhaul.

As for me, I was engaged during the whole of the day in charge of a boat's crew filling up
our water casks and tanks and foraging in the adjacent forest for a supply of fruit, not a
single native canoe having approached us during the entire day.  It was, consequently, not
until late in the afternoon, when the neck of the day's work was broken, that I had an opportunity
of exchanging a word or two with the first lieutenant on the subject of our neighbour, the
brig, and then it was only a word or two.  Mr Austin opened the conversation with:

"Well, Hawkesley, what do you think of our friend Monsieur Le Breton, now that you have had
an opportunity of bettering your acquaintance with him?"

"Well, sir," I replied; "on the whole I am inclined to think that there is just a bare possibility
of my having been mistaken in my estimate of him and of the character of the brig.  Still--"

"Still your mind is not yet quite easy," Mr Austin laughingly interrupted me.  "Now, what could
you possibly have noticed of a suspicious character in the poor fellow's conduct this morning?"

"Nothing," I was obliged to acknowledge.  "I am quite prepared to admit, sir, a total absence
of those peculiarities of manner which I am certain existed during his first visit to the ship.
But did you not think it strange that he should be in such a tremendous hurry to come on board
us this morning?  At first I was inclined to think his object might be to prevent a visit from
some of us to the brig; but that supposition is met, to some extent, by his invitation to us
for this evening.  The delay may, of course, have afforded them an opportunity to make arrangements
for our reception by putting out of sight any--"

"Any tell-tale evidences of their dishonesty," laughed the first luff. "Really, Hawkesley,
I must say I think you are deceiving yourself and worrying yourself unnecessarily.  Of course
I can quite understand how, having harboured those extraordinary suspicions of yours for so
great a length of time, you now find it difficult to dismiss them all in a moment; but have
patience for a few hours more; an excellent opportunity is now offered us for satisfying ourselves
as to the brig's bona fides, and you may rest assured that I shall make the very best use of
it.  I find I shall be the only guest of the Frenchmen to-night--the rest of the officers are
far too busy to leave the ship, and indeed I can hardly be spared, and would not go but for
the fact that it would look uncivil if we in a body declined their invitation; but I will see
that to-morrow you have an opportunity of going on board and investigating for yourself.  And
now I must be off to make myself presentable, or I shall be keeping my hosts waiting, and perhaps
spoil their dinner."

With that he dived below; and I turned away to attend to some little matter connected with
the progress of the work.  A quarter of an hour later he reappeared on deck, clean-shaven,
and looking very handsome and seamanlike in his best suit of uniform; and, the gig being piped
away, he went down over the side, giving me a parting nod as he did so.  I watched the boat
dash up alongside the brig; noted that the side was manned in due form, that our worthy "first"
was received by a group of officers on the quarter-deck, conspicuous among whom I could make
out with the aid of my glass Monsieur Le Breton, evidently performing the ceremony of introduction;
and then the work being finished, ropes coiled down, and everything once more restored to its
proper place, the hands were piped to tea, and I descended to the midshipmen's den, thoroughly
tired out with my unwonted exertion.

When I again went on deck, about an hour later, the stars were shining brilliantly; the moon,
about three days old, was gleaming with a soft subdued radiance through the topmost branches
of the trees on the adjacent shore; and the night-mist was already gathering so thickly on
the bosom of the river that the brig loomed through it vague, shadowy, and indistinct as a
phantom craft.  The tide was ebbing, and her stern was turned toward us, but no lights appeared
gleaming through her cabin windows, which struck me as being a little strange until I remembered
that Monsieur Le Breton had spoken of her captain being ill.  A few of our lads were amusing
themselves on the forecastle, dancing to the enlivening strains of the cook's fiddle, or singing
songs; and an occasional round of applause or an answering song came floating down upon the
gentle night-breeze from the brig; but as the fog grew thicker these sounds gradually ceased,
we lost sight of her altogether, and so far as sound or sight was concerned we might have been
the only craft in the entire river.  Our own lads also quieted down; and finally the only sounds
which broke the solemn stillness of the night were the sighing of the breeze, the gentle rustle
of the foliage, and the loud sonorous chirr, chirr, chirr of the insects.

It was about half-past nine o'clock, and I was just thinking of going below to turn-in when
I became conscious of the sounds of a commotion of some sort; a muffled cry, which seemed to
me like a call for "help;" a dull thud, as of a falling body, and a splash!  The sounds certainly
proceeded from the direction of the brig; and I thought that they must have emanated from a
spot at about her distance from the Daphne.  The slight feeling of drowsiness which had possessed
me took flight at once; all my senses became instantly upon the alert; and I awaited in keen
expectancy to hear if anything further followed.  In vain; the minutes sped past, and neither
sight nor sound occurred to elucidate the mystery.  I began to feel anxious and alarmed; my
old suspicions rose up again like a strong man aroused from sleep; and I walked aft to Mr Armitage,
who was leaning against a gun with his arms folded, and his chin sunk upon his breast evidently
in deep meditation.  He started up as he heard my footstep approaching; and on my asking if
he had heard anything peculiar ahead of us, somewhat shortly acknowledged that he had not.
I thereupon told him what I had heard; but he evidently attached no importance to my statement,
suggesting that if anything it was doubtless some of the Frenchmen amusing themselves.  I was
by no means satisfied with this, and, my uneasiness increasing every moment, I went forward
to ascertain whether any of the hands on the forecastle had heard the mysterious sounds.  I
found them all listening open-mouthed to some weird and marvellous yarn which one of the topmen
was spinning for their edification; and from them also I failed to elicit anything satisfactory.
Finally, it suddenly occurred to me that, in my wanderings ashore, I had often noticed how
low the night-mists lay upon the surface of the river; and it now struck me that by going aloft
I might get sight of something which would tend to explain the disquieting occurrence.  To
act upon the idea was the work of a moment; I sprang into the main rigging and made my way
aloft as rapidly as if my life depended upon it, utterly heedless of the fact that the rigging
had been freshly tarred down that day; and in less than a minute had reached the maintopmast
crosstrees.  As I had anticipated I was here almost clear of the mist; and I eagerly looked
ahead to see if all was right in that quarter.  The first objects which caught my eye were
the mastheads of the brig, broad on our starboard bow instead of directly ahead, as I had expected
to find them.  This of itself struck me as being somewhat strange; but, what was stranger still,
they seemed to be unaccountably near to us.  I rubbed my eyes and looked at them again.  They
were just in a line with the tops of a clump of trees which rose like islands out of the silvery
mist, and as I looked I saw that the spars were moving, gliding slowly and almost imperceptibly
past the trees toward the river. The brig was adrift.  I listened intently for quite five minutes
without hearing the faintest sound from the craft, and during that time she had neared us almost
a cable's length.  In another minute or two she would be abreast of and within a couple of
ships' lengths of us.  What could it mean?  She could not by any possibility have struck adrift
accidentally.  And if her berth was being intentionally shifted for any reason, why was the
operation carried out under cover of the fog and in such profound silence?  There had been
no sound of lifting the anchor; nor could I hear anything to indicate that they were running
out warps; it looked very much as though they had slipped their cable, and were allowing the
tide to carry them silently out to sea.  And where was Mr Austin during this stealthy movement?
Was he aware of it?  Why, if my suspicions were correct, had they invited the officers of the
Daphne on board to dinner?  Was it merely a blind, a temporary resort to the usual courtesies
adopted for the purpose of giving colour to their assumed character of a French man-o'-war,
or was it a diabolical scheme to get us all into their power and so deprive a formidable antagonist
of its head, so to speak, and thus cripple it?

All these surmises and many others equally wild flashed through my bewildered brain as I stood
there on the crosstrees watching the stealthy phantom-like movement of the brig's upper spars;
and the conclusion to which I finally came was that Captain Vernon ought to be informed forthwith
of what was going on.  I accordingly descended to the deck and once more sought out the third
lieutenant.

"Mr Armitage," said I, in a low cautious tone of voice, "the brig is adrift, and driving down
past us with the tide in the direction of the river."

"The brig adrift!" he repeated incredulously.  "Nonsense, Mr Hawkesley, you must be dreaming!"

"Indeed I am not, sir, I assure you," I replied earnestly.  "I have this moment come from aloft,
and I saw her topgallant-masts most distinctly over the top of the mist.  She is away over
in that direction, and scarcely a cable's length distant from us."

"Are you quite sure?" he asked, aroused at last by my earnest manner to something like interest.
"I can hear no sound of her."

"No, sir," I replied; "and that, in conjunction with the sounds which I undoubtedly heard just
now makes me think that something must be wrong on board her.  Do you not think the matter
ought to be reported to Captain Vernon?"

"Most certainly it ought," he agreed.  "Is it possible that the crew have taken the ship from
their officers, think you?"

"I scarcely know what to think," I replied.  "Let us speak to the captain at once, and hear
what he has to say about it."

Thereupon the third lieutenant directed Keene, one of the midshipmen, to take temporary charge
of the deck; and we at once dived below.

"Well, Mr Armitage, what is it?" asked Captain Vernon, as we presented ourselves in the cabin
and discovered him and Mr Smellie chatting together over their wine and cigars.

"I must apologise for intruding upon you, sir," said Armitage; "but Hawkesley here has come
to me with a very extraordinary story which I think you had better hear from his own lips."

"Oh!  Well, what is it, Mr --.  Why, Hawkesley, where in the world have you been, and what
doing, man?  You are positively smothered in tar."

"Yes, sir," I replied, glancing at myself and discovering for the first time by the brilliant
light of the cabin lamp the woeful ruin wrought upon my uniform.  "I really beg your pardon,
sir, for presenting myself in this plight, but the urgent nature of my business must be my
excuse." And I forthwith plunged in medias res and told what I had heard and seen.

"The noise of a scuffle and the brig adrift!" exclaimed the skipper. "The crew surely cannot
have risen upon their officers and taken the ship!" the same idea promptly presenting itself
to him as had occurred to the third lieutenant.

"No, sir," said I.  "I do not believe that is it at all; the commotion was not great enough
or prolonged enough for that; all the officers would not be likely to be taken by surprise,
but one man might be."

"One man!  What do you mean?  I don't understand you," rapped out the skipper.

"Well, then, sir, to speak the whole of my mind plainly, I am greatly afraid that Mr Austin
has met with foul play on board that brig, and that she is not a French man-o'-war at all,
as she professes to be," I exclaimed.

I saw Smellie start; and he was about to speak when:

"Mr Austin!  Foul play!  Not a French man-o'-war!!" gasped the skipper. "Why, Good Heavens!
the boy is mad!"

"If I am, sir, I can only say that I have been so for the last four months," I retorted.  "For
it is fully as long as that, or longer, that I have had my suspicions about that brig and her
crew."

"What!" exclaimed Smellie.  "Have you, too, suspected the brig?"

"I have, indeed, sir," I replied.

"Take a chair, Hawkesley," interrupted the skipper; "pour yourself out a glass of wine, and
let us have your story in the fewest possible words. Mr Armitage, do me the favour to ascertain
the brig's present whereabouts and let me know.  Now, Hawkesley, we are ready to listen to you."

As the skipper ceased, Armitage bowed and withdrew, whilst I very hastily sketched the rise
and progress of my suspicions, from Monsieur Le Breton's first visit up to that present moment.

Before I had proceeded very far, however, Armitage returned with the intelligence that the
brig was undoubtedly adrift and already some distance astern of us, and that the topman, who
had been aloft to inspect, had reported that he thought he could detect men on her yards.

"Turn up the hands at once then, sir, if you please, and see everything ready for slipping
our cable and making sail at a moment's notice.  But let everything be done in absolute silence;
and keep a hand aloft to watch the brig and report anything further he may notice on board
her; it really looks as though we were on the brink of some important discovery.  Now go ahead
with your story, Hawkesley," said the skipper.

I proceeded as rapidly as possible, merely stating what suspicious circumstances had come under
my own notice, and leaving Captain Vernon to draw his own deductions.  When I had finished,
the skipper turned to Smellie and said:

"Am I to understand, from your remark made a short time ago, that you, too, have suspected
this mysterious brig, Mr Smellie?"

"Yes," answered Smellie, "I certainly had a vague feeling that there was something queer about
her; but my suspicions were not nearly so clear and strong as Hawkesley's, and subsequent events
quite drove the matter out of my mind."

"Um!" remarked the skipper meditatively; "it is strange, very strange. I never noticed anything
peculiar about the craft."

"The brig is now about half a mile distant, sir, and is making sail," reported Armitage at
that moment, presenting himself again at the cabin door.

"Then wait until the hands are out of his rigging; then slip, and we will be after him.  I
intend to see to the bottom of this," returned the skipper sharply.  "There is undoubtedly
something wrong or poor Austin would have turned up on board before matters had reached this
stage. But, mind, let the work be carried on without an unnecessary sound of any kind."

As Armitage again withdrew and Smellie rose to his feet, Captain Vernon turned to me and said:

"I am very greatly obliged to you for the zeal and discretion you have manifested in this most
delicate matter, Hawkesley; whatever comes of it I shall remember that you have acted throughout
to the very best of your ability, not coming to me precipitately with a vague unconnected story,
but waiting patiently until you had accumulated a sufficiency of convincing evidence for us
to act upon; though, even now we must be very cautious as to what we do.  And let me also add
that Mr Smellie has spoken to me in the highest terms of your conduct throughout that trying
time when you and he were ashore together; indeed he assures me that to you, under God, he
is indebted for the actual preservation of his life. I have watched you carefully from the
moment of your first coming on board, and I have been highly gratified with your conduct throughout.
Go on as you have begun, young sir, and you will prove an ornament to the service.  And now,
gentlemen, to business."

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

POOR AUSTIN'S FATE.

I hurried on deck, highly gratified at the very handsome compliment paid me by the skipper,
and found that the hands were aloft, casting loose the canvas.  Presently, without a word having
been spoken above a whisper, or a shout uttered, they came down again; the topsail halliards
were manned, the yards mast-headed, the jib run up, the cable slipped, and we were under weigh;
the fog all the time being as thick as a hedge, so thick indeed that it was impossible to see
the jib-boom end from the quarter-deck.  Old Mildmay, the master, was conning the ship; but
of course in such a fog it was all guess-work, and the old fellow was terribly nervous and
anxious, as indeed was also Captain Vernon.  It struck me that the ship might be better conned
from aloft, and I stepped up to the skipper and with due modesty mentioned my idea.

"A very happy thought," exclaimed the master, who happened to overhear me.  "I'll just step
up as far as the crosstrees myself."

"Very good, Mr Mildmay; do so by all means," said Captain Vernon.  "But the wind is light,
and what little of it there is will carry the sound of your voice down to the brig if you hail
the deck, and so apprise them of our approach.  We must avoid that if possible; I want to get
alongside the craft and take her by surprise, and we may have some trouble in accomplishing
that if they suspect that we are after them. The Daphne is a fast ship, but so also is the
brig, and I am by no means certain that she has not the heels of us.  We must devise a little
code of signals from you to the deck, so as to obviate any necessity for hailing.  Can anyone
suggest anything?"

A very simple plan had occurred to me whilst the skipper was speaking, and as no one else seemed
to have a suggestion to make, I offered mine.

"If the pennant halliards were cast adrift down here on deck, sir, and held by one of us,"
I said, "Mr Mildmay could get hold of them aloft, and one tug upon them might mean `port,'
two tugs `starboard,' and three `steady.'"

"Excellent!" exclaimed the skipper, "and perfectly simple; we will adopt it forthwith, and
you shall attend to the deck-end of the halliards, Mr Hawkesley, with Mr Keene and Mr Peters
to pass the word from you along the deck to the helmsman.  Place us in a good weatherly position,
Mr Mildmay, if you please, so that when we run clear of the fog the brig may have no chance
to dodge us."

"Ay ay, sir, never fear for me," answered Old Mildmay as he swung nimbly into the main rigging,
and in a few seconds his body disappeared in the mist.

The old fellow soon put us in the right course, and away we went, crowding sail after the invisible
brig.  An anxious half-hour followed, and then we ran out of the fog and found ourselves creeping
along parallel with the land to the northward of the river-mouth, with the brig about half
a mile ahead of us under every stitch of canvas she could show to the freshening land-breeze.
We had gained on her considerably, the master having kept a keen eye upon her gleaming upper
canvas whilst piloting us out of the river and steering in such a direction as to very nearly
cut her off altogether.  He of course came down on deck as soon as we had cleared the fog,
and Captain Vernon at once ordered the crew to quarters.

The men were not long in getting to their stations, and when all was ready a gun was fired
after the flying brig, as a polite request for her to heave-to, and the ensign hoisted to the
peak.  I was naturally very anxious to see what notice would be taken of this, since the somewhat
high-handed course we were taking with the craft had been adopted entirely upon the strength
of my representations; and if the brig should, after all, turn out to be the Vestale French
gun-brig as she had pretended to be, our skipper might perhaps involve himself in a considerable
amount of trouble.  It was therefore with a sigh of real and genuine relief that I heard a
shot come whistling close past us from the brig in reply to our own.

Captain Vernon, too, was evidently much relieved, for he ejaculated in tones of great satisfaction:

"Good! she has fired a shotted gun at us and refuses to show her colours.  Now my course is
perfectly clear.  Try the effect of another gun on her, Mr Armitage, and aim at her spars;
she is skimming along there like a witch, and if we are not careful will give us the slip yet."

Armitage, who was in charge of the battery forward, upon this began peppering away at her in
earnest; but though the shot made daylight through her canvas every time, no damage was done
either to her spars or rigging, and it began to be only too evident that she was gradually
creeping away from us.  To make matters worse, too, her crew were just as smart with their
guns as we were with ours, in fact a trifle more so, for before a quarter of an hour had passed
several of our ropes, fortunately unimportant ones, had been cut; and at length a thud and
a crack aloft turned all eyes in that direction, to see the fore royal- mast topple over to
leeward.

Captain Vernon stamped upon the deck in the height of his vexation.

"Away aloft, there, and clear the wreck," he exclaimed, "and, for Heaven's sake, Mr Armitage,
see if you cannot cripple the fellow.  Ten minutes more and he will be out of range; then `good-bye'
to him.  I wish to goodness our people at home would condescend to take a lesson in shipbuilding
from the men who turn out these slavers; we should then have a chance of making a capture occasionally."

Whilst the skipper had been thus giving vent to his rapidly-increasing chagrin, Smellie had
walked forward; and presently I caught sight of him stooping down and squinting along the sights
of the gun which had just been re-loaded and run out.  A few seconds of anxious suspense followed,
and then came a flash and a sharp report, followed the next moment by a ringing cheer from
the men on the forecastle.  The brig's fore-yard had been shot away in the slings.

The craft at once shot up into the wind and lay apparently at our mercy.

"Ram us alongside him, Mildmay," exclaimed the skipper in an ecstasy of delight.  "Stand by
with the grappling-irons fore and aft.  Mr Smellie, stand by to lead a party on board him forward;
I will attend to matters aft here."

It really looked for a moment as though we actually had the brig; but a chill of disappointment
thrilled through me when I saw how splendidly she was handled.  The man who commanded her was
evidently equal to any emergency, for no sooner did the craft begin to luff into the wind than
he let fly his after braces, shivered his main topsail, and hauled his head sheets over to
windward, and--after a pause which must have sent the hearts of all on board into their mouths--the
brig began to pay off again, until, by a deft and dainty manipulation of her canvas, she was
actually got dead before the wind, when the main yard was squared and away she went once more
but little the worse for her serious mishap.

If her skipper, however, was a thorough seaman, so too was old Mildmay. That experienced veteran
soon saw how matters were tending, and though he was unable to "ram" us alongside in accordance
with Captain Vernon's energetically expressed desire, he placed the Daphne square in the wake
and to windward of the brig, and within half a cable's length of her, thus, to some extent,
taking the wind out of her sails, the effect of which was that we immediately began to gain
upon her.

The crew of the brig now worked at their stern-chasers with redoubled energy, and our running-gear
soon began to suffer.  But though we might to some extent have avoided this by sheering away
on to one or other of the brig's quarters, the position we then held was so commanding that
the skipper resolved to maintain it.  "We must grin and bear it," said he, "it will not be
for long; another five minutes will place us alongside.  Edge down a trifle toward his port
quarter, Mildmay, as though we intended to board him on that side, then, at the last moment,
sheer sharply across his stern and range up on his starboard side, it may possibly save us
a broadside as we board.  Mr Smellie, kindly load both batteries with round and grape, if you
please; we will deliver our broadside and board in the smoke."

Within the specified five minutes we ranged up alongside the brig, delivered our broadside,
receiving hers in return, her hands proving too smart to let us escape that; our grappling-irons
were securely hooked into her rigging, and away we went on board her fore and aft, being perhaps
a second ahead of the brig's crew, who actually had the hardihood to attempt to board us. 
We were stoutly met by as motley, and, at the same time, as ruffianly a set of men as it has
ever been my lot to encounter; and a most desperate struggle forthwith ensued. Captain Vernon
of course took care to be first on board; but I stuck close to his coat-tails, and almost the
first individual we encountered was no less a personage than our old acquaintance Monsieur
Le Breton himself.  He pressed fiercely forward and at once crossed swords with the skipper,
who exchanged two or three passes with him; but the two were soon separated by the surging
crowd of combatants, and then I found myself face to face with him.  I was by no means a skilled
swordsman, and to tell the truth felt somewhat nervous for a moment as his blade jarred and
rasped upon mine.  By great good fortune, however, I succeeded in parrying his first thrust,
and the next instant--how it happened I could not possibly say--he reeled backwards with my
sword- blade right through his body.  Leaving him dying, as I thought, on deck, I immediately
pressed forward after the skipper, and for a few minutes was kept pretty busy, first with one
antagonist and then another. Finally, after a fiercely maintained struggle of some twelve minutes
or so, the brig's crew began to give way before our own lads, until, finding themselves hemmed
in on all sides, they flung down their arms and begged for quarter, which was of course given
them.  Upon this, seeing that the skipper and Smellie were both safe, I turned to go below,
thinking that I should perhaps discover poor Austin in durance vile in one of the state-rooms.
I descended the cabin staircase, and was about to pass into the saloon when I happened to catch
sight, out of the corner of my eye, of some dark object moving in an obscure corner under the
staircase.  Turning to take a more direct look at it I to my great surprise discovered it to
be Monsieur Le Breton, who, instead of being dead as I had quite imagined he must be, was alive,
and, seemingly, not very much the worse for his wound.  He carried a pistol in his hand, and
was in the very act of lowering himself down through a trap in the flooring when I grasped
him by the collar and invited him to explain his intentions.  He quietly allowed me to drag
him out of the opening, rose to his feet, and then suddenly closed with me, aiming fierce blows
at my uncovered head--I had lost my hat somehow in the struggle on deck--with the heavy brass-mounted
butt of his pistol.  In such an encounter as this I did not feel very much afraid of him, being
tall for my age, and having developed a fair share of muscular strength since leaving England;
but it was as much as I could do to hold him and at the same time prevent his inflicting some
serious injury upon me. His wound, however, told upon him at last, and I eventually succeeded
in dragging him back to the deck, though not until after he had ineffectually emptied his pistol
at me.

On regaining the deck I found our lads busy securing the prisoners, and Monsieur Le Breton
was soon made as safe as the rest of them.

He was loudly protesting against the indignity of being bound, when Captain Vernon approached.

"Oh! here you are, Hawkesley!" he exclaimed.  "I was looking for you, and began to fear that
you had met with a mishap.  Do me the favour to step below and see if you can discover anything
of Mr Austin."

"I have already once been below with that object, sir," I replied; "but, discovering this man--Le
Breton as he calls himself--acting in a very suspicious manner, I deemed it my duty to see
him safe on deck before proceeding further in my quest."

"What was he doing?" asked the skipper sharply.

"I vill tell you, sare, vat I was doing," interrupted Le Breton recklessly.  "I vas on my vay
to ze soute aux poudres to blow you and all ze people to ze devil to keep company wiz your
inqueezatif first leftenant.  And I would have done eet, too, but for zat pestilent midshipman,
who have ze gripe of ze devil himself.  Peste! you Eengleesh, you are like ze bouledogue, ven
you take hold you not nevare let go again."

"There, Hawkesley, what do you think of that for a compliment?" laughed the skipper.  "So,
monsieur," he resumed, "you were about to blow us up, eh?  Very kind of you, I'm sure.  Perhaps
you will increase our obligation to you by informing me what you have done with Mr Austin?"

"Done wiz him!" reiterated Le Breton with a diabolical sneer.  "Why, I have sent him to ze
bottom of ze creek, where I would have sent you all if you had not been too cautious to accept
my polite invitation."

"Do I understand you to mean that you have murdered him?" thundered the skipper.

"Yes," was the reckless answer; "drowned him or murdered him, call it what you will."

"You treacherous scoundrel!" ejaculated the skipper hoarsely; "you shall be made to bitterly
account for this unprovoked outrage; clap him in irons," turning to the master-at-arms, who
happened to be close at hand. "Poor Austin!" he continued.  "Your suspicions, Hawkesley, have
proved only too correct; the craft is, unquestionably, a slaver--or worse.  We must have her
thoroughly overhauled; possibly some documents of great value to us may be found stowed away
somewhere or other.  I'll see to it at once."  And he forthwith dived below.

The prisoners having been secured, the dead and wounded were next attended to, the former being
lashed up in their hammocks ready for burial, whilst the latter were carefully conveyed below
to receive such attention as the surgeon and his assistant could bestow.  The brig's loss was
very severe, sixteen of her men having been killed and twenty- two wounded--principally by
our final broadside--out of a total of sixty hands.  Our own loss was light, considering the
determination with which the enemy had fought, amounting to only eleven wounded.  As soon as
a sufficiency of hands could be spared for the purpose, the brig's square canvas was furled,
a prize crew was told off to take charge of her, and the two craft then made sail in company--the
brig under her fore-and-aft canvas only--for the anchorage under Padron Point, where we brought
up about a couple of hours later.  Captain Vernon then returned to the Daphne in the brig's
gig, bringing with him a bundle of papers, and leaving Smellie in charge of the prize; an anchor-watch
was set, and all hands then turned in, pretty well tired but highly elated at the result of
our evening's work.

At daybreak next morning both vessels weighed and returned to their former berths in Banana
Creek, the Daphne picking up the cable which she had slipped on the previous night.  The dead
were then buried on the little island which lies on the east side of the creek; after which
the carpenter and boatswain with their mates were set to work upon the necessary repairs to
the brig.  This craft now proved to be English built, having been turned out of a Shoreham
shipyard, and originally registered under the name of the Virginia; but how she had come to
get into the hands of the individuals from whom we took her there was nothing to show.  She
was completely fitted for carrying on the business of a slaver; but from the nature of the
goods discovered in her after hold--which was quite separate from her main hold--there could
be no doubt that she had also done a little piracy whenever a convenient opportunity had presented
itself.

I was sent away directly after breakfast that morning in charge of a couple of boats with orders
to drag the creek for poor Mr Austin's body, and in little more than an hour we fortunately
found it quite uninjured.  The poor fellow had evidently been taken completely by surprise,
a gag being in his mouth, and his hands manacled behind him, with a stout canvas bag containing
two 18-pound shot lashed to his feet. We took the body on board the Daphne, and it was at once
conveyed below to his own cabin, pending the construction of a coffin, the ensign being at
the same time hoisted half up to the peak.

This melancholy duty performed I was again sent away to drag for the anchor and cable slipped
by the Virginia on the previous evening, and these also I found, weighed, and conveyed on board
the prize, where, under Smellie's able supervision, the work of repairing and refitting was
going on apace.

About noon that same day a strange brig entered the river with the French flag flying at her
peak, and brought up in the creek about a cable's length astern of us.  We were at once struck
with the marked resemblance which the stranger bore to the Virginia--though it was by no means
so striking as the similarity between our prize and the Black Venus--and we forthwith came
to the conclusion that we now at last beheld the veritable Vestale--the real Simon Pure--before
us.  And so, upon Armitage boarding her, she proved to be; her captain, upon hearing of the
extraordinary personation of his craft so successfully played off upon us by the Virginia,
actually producing his commission to prove his bona fides.  During the course of this somewhat
eventful day, also, one of our lads learned from one of the prisoners that on the occasion
of our second encounter with the Virginia--when she so cleverly pretended to be in pursuit
of the Black Venus--she was actually making the best of her way to Havana with the three hundred
slaves on board which she had accused her sister-ship of carrying off, and that her elaborate
signalling on that occasion was merely resorted to for the purpose of hoodwinking us.

At four o'clock that afternoon, Mr Austin's body having been deposited in the coffin which
had been prepared for it, the hands were mustered on deck in their clean clothes, the boats
were hoisted out, and the body was deposited in the launch, with the union-jack spread over
the coffin as a pall, and the ensign hoisted half-mast high on the staff in the boat's stern.
Just as the procession was on the point of shoving off from the ship's side, the officers of
the Vestale, who had incidentally learned the particulars of Austin's murder, approached in
their two gigs, with the French flag floating at half-mast from the ensign-staves in the sterns
of their boats, and took up a position in the rear.  We then shoved off; the first and second
cutters taking the launch in tow, and proceeding up the creek in charge of old Mildmay, the
master, the captain and officers following in the two gigs.  As soon as we were clear of the
ship's side the Daphne began firing minute-guns, to which the Vestale, hoisting her ensign
half up to the peak, replied; and so we moved slowly up the creek, the minute-guns continuing
as long as the boats remained within sight of the ship.  We proceeded for a distance of about
two miles, which brought us to a lovely spot selected by the skipper, who had himself sought
it out during the morning, and there we landed.  The body was then passed out of the launch
and shouldered by six petty officers; Smellie and I supporting the pall on one side, whilst
Armitage and old Mildmay performed a like duty on the other; the skipper leading the way to
the grave and reading the burial service as he went, whilst the remaining officers and men,
followed by the contingent from the Vestale, formed in the rear of the coffin. A slight pause
was made at the conclusion of these passages, and Smellie, deeply affected, stepped forward
and threw the first earth upon the body of his dear friend and brother officer, after which
the service again proceeded and soon came to an end.  The firing party of marines next formed
on each side of the grave and rendered the last honours to the dead; the grave was filled in,
a wooden cross being temporarily planted at its head, and we turned sorrowfully away, entered
the boats, and with the ensigns now hoisted to the staff-heads, returned to the ship realising
fully, perhaps for the first time, the fact that we had lost for ever a genial, brave, devoted,
and sympathetic friend.  "In the midst of life we are in death."  Never did I so thoroughly
realise the absolute literal truth of this as whilst sitting in the gig, silently struggling
with my feelings, on our return from poor Austin's funeral. We had just laid him in his lonely
grave on a foreign shore, far away from all that he held dearest and best on earth, in a spot
consecrated only by the solemn service which had just been performed over it, a spot which
could never be watered by a mother's or a sister's tears, where his last resting-place would
be at the mercy of the stranger and the savage, and where in the course of a very few years
it would only too probably be obliterated beyond all possibility of recognition.  Yet twenty-four
short hours ago he was alive and well, rejoicing in the strength of his lusty manhood, and
with, apparently, the promise of many years of life before him, never suspecting, as he went
down over the ship's side, with a cheery smile and a reassuring nod to me, that he was going
thus gaily to meet treachery and death.  Poor Austin!  I struggled successfully with my feelings
whilst the eyes of others were upon me, but I am not ashamed to admit that I wept long and
bitterly that night when I reflected in privacy upon his untimely and cruel fate.  Nor am I
ashamed to acknowledge that I then also prayed, more earnestly perhaps than I had ever prayed
before, that I might be taught so to number my days that I might incline mine heart unto that
truest of all wisdom, the wisdom which teaches us how to live in such a way that death may
never find us unprepared.

On passing the Virginia it was seen that her new fore-yard was slung and rigged, the sail bent,
and the other repairs completed, so that she was once more ready for sea.  Smellie shortly
afterwards shifted his traps over into her, returning to the Daphne to dine with Captain Vernon
and to receive his final instructions.

These given, Mr Armitage and I were summoned to the cabin; and upon our arrival there, the
skipper, after speaking regretfully upon the loss which the ship and all hands, himself especially,
as he said, had sustained through the first lieutenant's death, informed us that Mr Smellie
having received charge of the prize to deliver over to the admiral of the station with an earnest
recommendation that she should be turned over to the navy and given to Smellie with the rank
of commander, it now became necessary to appoint an acting first lieutenant to the Daphne.
A few words of commendation to Armitage then followed, and he was presented with an acting order.

The skipper then turned to me.

"It next becomes necessary to appoint an acting second lieutenant," said he, "and after giving
the subject my most serious attention, I have determined, Hawkesley, to appoint you.  Nay,
no thanks, young gentleman; you will discover before many hours have passed over your head
that you have very little to be thankful for.  You will exchange your present easy and irresponsible
position for one of very grave and unceasing responsibility; the safety of the ship and of
all hands will daily, during your watch, be confided to your care, and many other onerous duties
will devolve upon you, every one of which will demand your most unceasing attention and your
utmost skill in their proper discharge.  Henceforward you will have time to think of nothing
but duty, duty must wholly engage your thoughts by day, ay, and your very dreams by night;
it is no post of mere empty honour which I am about to confer upon you.  But, as I once before
remarked to you, I have had my eye upon you ever since you came on board the ship, and, young
as you are, and short as has been your term of probation, I have sufficient confidence in you
to believe that you will do credit to my judgment.  I presume, of course, that it is unnecessary
to point out to you that this appointment can be only temporary; the Virginia will doubtless
bring back with her from Sierra Leone officers of the admiral's appointment to fill the posts
of second and third lieutenant; but if, as I have no doubt, you discharge your temporary duties
with anything like the ability I anticipate, your promotion, upon the completion of your time,
will be sure and rapid."

So saying, the skipper extended his hand to me and gave mine a hearty shake, Smellie and Armitage
following his example and offering me their congratulations.

It being, by this time, rather late, Smellie shortly afterwards rose, and bidding adieu at
the gangway to his old shipmates, repaired on board his new command, which was under orders
to sail next morning at daybreak.

As for me, I went off to the midshipmen's berth, which, through Keene, Woods, and Williams,
the master's mate, being drafted on board the Virginia, was now almost empty, and shifted my
few traps forthwith into the cabin recently vacated by Smellie, scarcely knowing meanwhile
whether I was standing upon my head or my heels.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

THE CUTTERS BESET.

On the following morning Captain Dubosc and Lieutenant Le Breton (we now discovered that the
Virginia's people had assumed the names of the officers of the Vestale in addition to appropriating
the name of the ship) came on board the Daphne to breakfast; Armitage and old Mildmay being
invited to meet them.

The meal appeared to be a protracted one, for it was served punctually at eight o'clock and
the participants did not appear on deck until half- past ten.  The secret, however, soon came
out, for when they did at length put in an appearance it became perfectly evident, from sundry
disjointed remarks which passed between them, that something of importance was on the tapis.
The Frenchmen's gig was awaiting them, and they soon passed down over the side, Captain Dubosc's
last words being:

"Well, then, mon ami, it is all settled, and our contingent shall be ready for a start punctually
at two o'clock Au revoir."

I was not left long in ignorance of the precise nature of the arrangement which had just been
concluded, for as soon as the French gig was fairly away from our vessel's side, Captain Vernon
beckoned me to him and said:

"Just step down below with me, Hawkesley; I want to have a talk with you."

I followed him down into his cabin, whereupon he directed me to be seated, drew a chair up
to the table for himself, and laying his hand upon a bundle of papers, said:

"These are some of the papers which I discovered the night before last on board the Virginia;
and as I anticipated would be the case, they contain several items of exceedingly important
information.  One of these items has reference to the existence, on an island some forty miles
up the river, of an immense slave depot, as also of a slave hulk, in both of which, if the
information here given happens to be reliable, a large number of slaves are at this moment
awaiting embarkation.  The papers seem also to imply that there is a very snug anchorage close
to this island, with a navigable channel leading right up to it.

"Now I am exceedingly anxious, for many reasons, to test the truth of this information, and
I have therefore arranged with Captain Dubosc to send a joint expedition up the river to survey
the alleged channel, to destroy the depot and the hulk, if such are found to exist, and to
free any slaves which may happen to be therein.

"From certain remarks to be found here and there in these documents, I infer that the depot
and hulk are in charge of white men, but it is, unfortunately, nowhere stated how many these
white men number.  They cannot, however, muster very strongly there; they probably do not number
above a dozen altogether; the expedition, therefore, will only be a small one, consisting only
of our own cutter and that of the Vestale. I have determined to give the command of our people
to Mr Mildmay, he being the most experienced officer at surveying now remaining to us, with
you to lend a hand.  The French boat will be under the command of Monsieur Saint Croix, the
second lieutenant of the Vestale; and both boats, though of course under independent commands,
will act in concert. This paper," placing one before me, "is, as you will perceive, a sketch-chart
of the river, and the two crosses in red ink indicate the positions of the depot and the hulk.
It differs somewhat, you will notice, from the admiralty chart," to which he pointed as he
spoke, "and it will really be a great point to ascertain which, if either, of the two is correct.
To an individual unacquainted with the river, the channel there on the larboard hand going
up would naturally suggest itself as the preferable one, being so much wider than the other,
but the soundings marked on this sketch go to show that the water is much deeper in the south
channel.  This is one of the points I want cleared up.  And another is the bearings and compass
courses along the deepest water in each reach of the channel.  I have already explained all
this to Mildmay of course; but I thought I would also explain it to you, because, knowing exactly
what I want, you will be able to render more intelligent assistance than would be possible
were you working in the dark.  There is only one thing more.  You are a tolerably good hand
with your pencil, I know; do you think you could make an exact copy of this sketch-chart to
take with you, so as to leave the original behind with me?"

I assured the skipper that I both could and would, whereupon he furnished me with the necessary
materials and left me in solitude to perform my task, going on deck himself to superintend
the preparations for our trip.

The sketch-chart found among the papers on board the Virginia was only a small affair, drawn
upon a sheet of foolscap paper; but it was so carefully executed that I felt sure it must be
the work of an experienced hand, and consequently, in all probability, perfectly accurate.
My copy, therefore, to be of any value at all, would have to be, not a free-hand happy-go-lucky
sketch, but an absolute facsimile. There was a great deal of work in it, and not much time
wherein to do it; so, after a little thought, I hit upon the plan of fastening the outspread
original with wafers to the glass of one of the stern windows, and watering a thin sheet of
paper over it.  The strong daylight reflected up from the surface of the water through the
glass rendered the two sheets of paper sufficiently transparent to enable me to see every line
and mark of the original with tolerable clearness through the sheet upon which I proposed to
make my copy; and with the aid of a fine- pointed pencil I soon had it complete, going over
it afterwards with pen and ink to make it indelible.

Mildmay and I lunched with the skipper that day, and during the course of the meal we received
our final instructions, which were, however, little more than a recapitulation of those given
me in the morning.

The meal over, the cutter's crew were paraded, fully armed, in the waist of the ship; their
ammunition was served out to them, and they were ordered down into the boat, which lay alongside
with a 12-pounder carronade in her bows, together with the necessary powder and shot for the
same, spare ammunition for the men's muskets, four days' provisions and water, and, in fact,
every necessary for the successful carrying out of the undertaking upon which we were bound.
The skipper then shook hands with Mildmay and me, wishing us prosperity and success; we went
down over the side into the boat, and the little expedition started. Three minutes later we
were joined by Monsieur Saint Croix in the Vestale's cutter, when the canvas was set in both
boats, the wind, though dead in our teeth for the passage up the river, being free enough to
carry us as far as Boolambemba Point.

For the remainder of that day and up to about 4 p.m. on the day following, the expedition progressed
without incident of any kind worth mentioning.  Our progress was steady but slow, Mildmay's
whole energies being devoted to the making of a thoroughly satisfactory and trustworthy survey
of the river channel up which we were passing; and in the accomplishment of this duty I was
pleased to find that the studies I had been diligently pursuing under Mr Smellie's auspices
enabled me to render him substantial assistance.  Saint Croix, who kept about a quarter of
a mile in our wake, was making a perfectly independent survey, which he compared with ours
at the conclusion of each day's work.  The first incident of note, though we attached no importance
whatever to it at the moment, occurred about four o'clock in the afternoon on the day following
our departure from Banana Creek, and it consisted merely in the fact that a large native canoe
passed us upward bound, without its occupants bestowing upon us any notice whatever.  We had
previously encountered several canoes--small craft carrying from two to half-a-dozen natives--and
the occupants of these, who seemed to be engaged for the most part in fishing, had invariably
greeted us with vociferous ejaculations, which, from the hearty laughter immediately following
them, were doubtless choice examples of Congoese wit.  But the particular canoe now in question
swept past us without a sound.  She was a large, well-shaped craft, propelled by twenty-four
paddles, and she dashed ahead of us as if we had been at anchor, her occupants--and especially
four individuals who sat in the stern-sheets, or at all events where the stern-sheets ought
to be, and who, from their display of feathers, bead necklaces, and leopard-skin robes, must
have been very bigwigs indeed--looking straight ahead of them and vouchsafing not the faintest
indication that they were conscious of our presence.  This absurd assumption of dignity greatly
tickled us at the moment, we attributing it entirely to the existence in the native mind of
a profound conviction of their own immeasurable superiority; but subsequent events tended to
give another and a more sinister aspect to the incident.  We pressed diligently on with our
work until six o'clock, at which time we found ourselves abreast a small native village.  Here
Mildmay proposed to effect a landing, both for the purpose of procuring some fruit and also
to satisfy his very natural curiosity to see what a native village was like.  But on pulling
in toward the bank the natives assembled, making such unmistakable warlike demonstrations that
we deemed it advisable to abandon our purpose.  We could, of course, have easily dispersed
the hostile blacks had we been so disposed; and Saint Croix, who was a particularly high-spirited,
fiery-tempered young fellow, strongly advocated our doing so.  But Captain Vernon's orders
to us to avoid all collision with the natives had been most stringent, and old Mildmay was
far too experienced and seasoned a hand to engage in an affray for the mere "fun" of the thing.
He therefore sturdily refused to aid or abet Saint Croix in any such unrighteous undertaking;
and we passed the night instead upon a small islet whereon there was nothing more formidable
than a few water-fowl and a flock of green parrots to dispute our landing.

We had not been at work above an hour or so on the following morning before we had reason to
suspect that some at least of the unusual number of canoes around us were suspiciously watching
our movements, if not actually following us up the river.  This, however, for the time being
caused us little or no uneasiness, as we felt assured that, should their attentions become
inconveniently obtrusive, a bullet or two, or failing that, a round-shot from our carronade,
fired over their heads, would promptly send them to the right-about.  Later on in the day,
however, I must confess that I for one began to experience a slight qualm of anxiety as I noticed
the steadily increasing number of canoes, some of them carrying as many as ten or a dozen men,
in our vicinity.  They were all ostensibly engaged in fishing, it is true; but that this was
only a pretence, or that they were meeting with unusually bad luck, was evident from the small
number of fish captured.  Still, up to noon, though the behaviour of the natives had been steadily
growing more suspicious and unsatisfactory, no actual hostile demonstration had been made;
and we landed upon a small bare, sandy islet to cook and despatch our dinner.

During all this time we had, of course, been carefully checking the chart of the river copied
by me from the one found on board the Virginia, and comparing it with our own survey; the general
result being to prove that it was very fairly accurate, quite sufficiently so at least to serve
as a safe guide to any vessel of light draught, say up to ten feet or so, making for the island
on which was the alleged slave depot.  This chart told us that we had now arrived within a
distance of some six miles of the island in question, a statement verified to some extent by
the fact that on an island situate at about that distance from us we could make out, with the
aid of our glasses, an object which might very well pass for a large building of some kind.
The river channel between us and this island was entirely free of visible obstructions, and
we therefore hoped that, by a little extra exertion, we might succeed in completing our survey
right up to the island, and gaining possession of it and the hulk--thus achieving the full
object of the expedition--before nightfall.

By the time that we were ready to make a start once more, however, the canoes had mustered
in such numbers that even old Mildmay, who had hitherto poo-poohed my suggestions as to the
possibility of a contemplated attack, began to look serious, and at last actually went the
length of acknowledging that perhaps there might be mischief brewing after all.  Saint Croix,
however, treated the matter lightly, roundly asserting that the extraordinary gathering was
due to nothing more serious than the native curiosity to behold the unwonted sight of a white
man, and to watch our mysterious operations.  There was undoubtedly a certain degree of probability
about this suggestion, and most unfortunately we gave to it a larger share of credence than
the event justified, shoving off from our sand-bank and resuming our surveying operations without
first adopting those precautionary measures which prudence obviously dictated.

At two o'clock p.m., by which time we had passed over about three of the six miles which lay
between the sand-bank and our supposed goal, the French boat being at the time about half a
mile astern of us, a loud shouting arose from one of the largest canoes in the flotilla, her
paddles were suddenly elevated in the air, and the whole fleet with one accord rapidly closed
in between us and the Frenchmen, completely cutting us off the one from the other.

"Hillo!" exclaimed Mildmay, "what's the meaning of this?  Just clap a round-shot into the carronade
there, you Tom, and pitch it well over the heads of those black rascals.  Pull port, back starboard,
and slue the boat round with her nose toward them.  That's your sort!  Now, Tom, are you ready
there, for'ard?  Then well elevate the muzzle and stand by to fire when I give the word.  Hold
water, starboard oars, and port oars pull a stroke; we're pointing straight for the Frenchmen
just now.  Well of all; now we're clear, and no chance of hitting our friends.  Fire!"

The carronade rang out its report from the bows of the boat, and the shot went screaming away
far over the heads of those in the canoes, the Frenchmen firing in like manner at almost the
same moment.  A yell of dismay immediately arose from the canoes, and half a dozen of those
nearest us dashed their paddles into the water and began paddling precipitately away.  Their
panic, however, was only momentary; they appeared to have seen and heard artillery before,
and as soon as they saw that no damage had been done they arrested their flight, and a contingent
of canoes, numbering quite a hundred, began cautiously to advance toward us, spreading out
on our right and left in a manner which showed that they meditated an attempt to surround us.

"Give 'em another pill, Tom, and slap it right into the thick of 'em this time; we mustn't
let 'em surround us at no price," exclaimed old Mildmay.  "Turn round on your thwarts, lads,
and pull the boat gently up stream, starn first, so's to keep our bull-dog forward there facing
'em. Now, as soon as you're ready there with the gun let 'em have it."  Once again the carronade
spoke out, and this time its voice conveyed a death- message to some of the belligerent blacks,
the shot striking one of the canoes fair in the stem, knocking her into match-wood, and killing
or maiming several of her occupants.  We naturally expected that this severe lesson would have
the effect of sending our troublesome neighbours to the right-about en masse, but to our surprise
and discomfiture this was by no means the case; on the contrary, it appeared to have thoroughly
aroused their most savage instincts, and with a loud shout they dashed their paddles into the
water and advanced menacingly toward us.

"Load your muskets, lads!" exclaimed Mildmay, as, with eyes gleaming and nostrils dilated,
the old war-horse snuffed the approaching battle; "load your muskets, and then take to your
oars again and back her steadily up stream.  Sharp's the word and quick's the action; if those
rascals `outflank' us--as the sodgers call it--we may say `good-bye' to old England.  Mr Hawkesley,
d'ye think you can pitch a bullet into that long chap that's creeping up there on our larboard
beam?  I'm about to try my hand and see if I can't stop the gallop of this fellow who's in
such a tremendous hurry away here to the nor'ard of us.  Take good aim, now; we haven't a single
bullet that we can afford to throw away.  Ah! that's well done," as I bowled over the individual
who was handling the steering paddle in the canoe indicated to me.  "Now let's see what an
old man can do."  He raised his piece to his shoulder, took a long steady aim, and fired. 
A white spot instantly appeared on the side of the canoe; and one of its occupants sprang convulsively
to his feet and fell headlong into the river, nearly capsizing the frail craft as he did so.

This certainly checked the impetuosity of the two particular canoes, the occupants of which
had suffered from our fire; but the others only pressed forward with increased eagerness.

"Hang it!" exclaimed the master pettishly, "I don't want to do it, but I shall have to give
'em a dose of grape yet.  Why won't the stupid donkeys take a hint?  And why, in the name of
fortune, should they want to interfere with us at all?  Try 'em with grape this time, Tom;
let's see what they think of `the fruit of the vine.'"

Meanwhile the French boat had also become actively engaged, the report of her carronade ringing
out much more frequently than our own, whilst rattling volleys of musketry breezed up from
her at brief intervals; but from the steadily decreasing sharpness of the reports it soon became
evident, somewhat, I must confess, to our dismay, that she was retiring.  It might, of course,
be merely a strategic movement on Saint Croix's part; but if, on the other hand, he happened
to be situated like ourselves, with all his work cut out to defend himself, and a way open
to him down stream only, as we had a clear road before us up stream only, then indeed matters
were beginning to look extremely serious for us.  So far as he was concerned, if he could only
avoid being surrounded he was comparatively safe; the way would be open for his retreat, and
a fine breeze happening to be blowing down the river, he could, with the aid of his sails easily
outpace the canoes. But with us the matter was very different; our retreat was cut off, and
unless we could beat off the canoes the only course open to us seemed to be that of taking
to dry land, intrenching ourselves as best we might, and patiently waiting until assistance
should arrive.  Meanwhile, in accordance with Mildmay's instructions, our carronade had been
loaded with grape, and Tom, taking steady aim, applied the match to his piece. A flash, a roar,
a volume of smoke, and away went the grape lashing up the surface of the water fair in line
with a thick cluster of canoes, through which the iron shower next moment tore with disastrous
effect. One canoe was literally rent to pieces, every one of its occupants, so far as we could
see, being killed; two other canoes, one on each side of the first, were so seriously damaged
that they immediately swamped, leaving their occupants squattering in the water like so many
lame ducks; and three or four others were hit, with serious casualties to their crews.  This
effectually checked the advance of the blacks for a few minutes, during which we made good
use of our oars in urging the boat, still stern foremost, in the direction of the island to
which we were bound, and upon which we were now able to distinctly make out the shape of a
huge wooden barrack-like structure.

As we pressed on toward the island we became cognisant of the fact that its occupants were
in a great state of confusion, and a few minutes later we saw a long procession of blacks,
who, from their constrained movements, were apparently manacled, emerge from the barrack and
move off toward the opposite side of the island.  We were enabled, with the aid of our glasses,
to detect on the island the presence of some ten or a dozen white men, and these individuals,
carrying each a musket in one hand and a whip in the other, seemed to be very freely using
the latter to expedite the movements of the unhappy blacks.

We were, however, allowed but scanty time in which to take note of these matters, for the native
canoes soon began to press forward upon us once more, evidently with the fixed determination
to surround us if possible, and thus prevent our approach to the island.  We knew that if this
object were once accomplished our doom was certain, for in such a case, fight as desperately
as we might, we must soon be overpowered by sheer force of numbers, and it consequently soon
became, so far as we were concerned, an absolute race for life.

On swept the boat, our men pulling her through the water, though still stern foremost, at a
pace such as she had rarely travelled before, and on crowded the canoes after us, spread out
athwart the stream in the form of a crescent.  Luckily for us, the channel at this point was
not very wide, and by keeping in the middle of it we were able to throw a musket-shot clear
across to either side, otherwise we should soon have found ourselves in a parlous case.  The
greater number of the canoes obstinately maintained a position in mid-stream ahead of us, thus
presenting an insuperable barrier to our retreat down stream, whilst those on the outer wings
to port and starboard of us hugged the bank of the stream, two or three of the larger craft
making a big spurt ahead of the others now and then in an endeavour to outflank us, which endeavour,
however, a well-directed volley of musketry always sufficed to check for the time being.

At length we reached a point where the stream widened out considerably, enabling the canoes
on each side to spread out sufficiently far to be beyond musket-shot, and we saw that upon
the question whether we or the canoes passed this point first, hinged our fate.  The natives,
though evidently entertaining a wholesome dread of our carronade, were by no means so dismayed
by the execution it wrought among them as we had hoped they would be, and indeed exhibited
a decidedly growing disposition to close upon us in spite of our fire; in fact, our position
was at every moment growing more critical.

Very fortunately for us we happened to have a few rounds of canister in the boat, and Mildmay
now resolved to try the effect of these upon the pertinacious natives.  A charge of grape with
one of canister on the top of it, was accordingly rammed home and sent flying into the thickest
of the crowd of canoes immediately ahead of us, immediately succeeded by a like dose to the
right and left wings of the flotilla.  The canoes were just at about the right distance to
give these murderous discharges their utmost possible effect, and the carnage among the thickly-crowded
craft was simply indescribable.  The effect was not only to check their advance effectually,
but to actually put them to flight, and whilst a similar charge was again rammed home by those
in charge of the gun the rest of the men slewed the boat round on her centre, and with a loud
cheer gave way at top speed for the island.

We were within a hundred yards of the low shingly beach when, to our astonishment, the roar
of artillery from the island greeted our ears, and at the same instant half a dozen round-shot
came flying about our ears.  Fortunately no damage was done beyond the smashing of a couple
of oars and the incontinent precipitation backwards into the bottom of the boat of the pullers
thereof, amidst the uproarious laughter of all hands, and before these unfortunates had fairly
picked themselves up, the cutter was sent surging half her length high and dry up on the beach,
the carronade belched forth its contents, and out we jumped, master and man, and charged up
to the sod battery which had fired upon us.  We were greeted with a volley of musketry, which,
however, never stopped us in our rush a single instant, and as we clambered in at one side
we had the satisfaction of seeing the rascally Spaniards go flying out at the other, whence
they made short miles of it to a boat which lay awaiting them on the beach at the opposite
side of the island, some two or three hundred yards away.  We sent a few ineffectual flying
shots after them, but attempted no pursuit, as we now found ourselves to some extent masters
of the situation; in so far, that is to say, that we found the battery admirably adapted as
a place wherein to make a stand until such time as we could see our way clear to once more
take offensive measures.  As for the Spaniards, they made good their retreat to a large hulk
which lay securely moored at a distance of some twenty yards from the steeply sloping eastern
shore of the island, and which-- floating high out of the water as she did, with channel-plates
removed and no gear whatever about her sides to aid us in boarding should we make the attempt--would,
I foresaw, prove rather a hard nut for us to crack.  Our footing thus made good upon the island
and in the battery, we had a moment or two in which to look about us, and the first discovery
made was that poor old Mildmay, the master, had been wounded, and was lying helpless, face
downwards on the sward outside the battery. The next was, that the natives had recovered from
their panic and were actually once more advancing against us, spreading out on all sides so
as to completely encircle the island.

The first object demanding our attention was, of course, the master. Directing the man Tom,
our chief artilleryman, to look into the state of the guns belonging to the battery, and to
load them afresh, I called a couple of men and took them with me to bring in the master.  The
poor old fellow was lying upon the grass face downwards, and when we gently raised him it became
apparent that he had been bleeding rather profusely at the mouth.  He was senseless and ghastly
pale, and for the moment I feared he was dead.  A low moan, however, as the men began to move
with him, gave us the assurance that life was not quite extinct, and as gently as we could
we lifted him over the low earth parapet, and laid him down under its shelter in comparative
safety.

The command of the party now devolved upon me, and a very serious responsibility under the
circumstances I found it.  Here we were cooped up in a small sod battery, wholly ineffectual
to resist a determined assault; with a perfect cloud of hostile natives hovering about us apparently
determined to be satisfied with nothing short of our absolute extermination; with a dozen vindictive
Spaniards on board the hulk close at hand, doubtless as anxious as the natives to sweep us
from the face of the earth; the French boat having vanished from the scene; and-- though there
was drinkable water in abundance in the river so long as we might be able to get at it--with
only one day's provisions left.

CHAPTER NINETEEN.

THE SITUATION BECOMES DESPERATE.

"Well, Tom," said I, "what about the guns?--are they loaded?"

"Yes, sir, they is," answered Tom; "and a most fort'nate circumstance it were that you ordered
them guns to be loaded when you did, otherwise we should have been sent sky-high by this time."

"Ah, indeed! how is that?"

"Why, you see, sir, when I was ordered to load the guns I nat'rally looks round for the ammunition
for to do it with; and though this is the first time as I've ever found myself aboard a reg'lar
genewine land- battery, it didn't take me long for to make up my mind that if there was any
ammunition anywheres aboard the thing, it must be in one of them there corner lockers.  So
I goes away and tries to open the door, which in course I finds locked.  It didn't take Ned
and me mor'n a jiffy, hows'ever, to prise off the lock; and when I looked in, there sure enough
was the powder--a goodish quantity--all made up into cartridges, and there, too, I sees the
black stump of a fuze with a red spark on the end fizzing and smoking away--a good un.  I knowed
what that meant in a second, Mr Hawkesley; so I whips out my knife, sings out to Ned to prise
open the other two doors, and cuts off the live end of the fuze at once, and just in time.
There warn't more nor an inch of it left.  And when we got the other two doors open it were
just the same, sir--half a minute more 'd ha' done for the lot of us, sir."

"But you have taken care to see that the magazines are now all right?-- that there are no more
live fuzes in them?"  I exclaimed in considerable alarm.

"Ay, ay, sir; never fear for me," answered Tom with a quiet grin.  "They are safe enough now,
sir; we gave 'em a good overhaul before doing anything else, sir."

"Thank you, Tom," I replied; "you have rendered a most important service, which, if I live
to get out of this scrape, I will not fail to report to Captain Vernon.  But I should like
to take a squint into these magazines myself."

"Certingly, sir, by all means," returned Tom; and leading the way to the magazines he pointed
out the manner in which the fuzes had been placed, and graphically redescribed the manner in
which a terrible catastrophe had been averted.

We had, indeed, had a frightfully narrow escape from destruction; for the magazines, of which
there were three, one in each angle of the triangular-shaped battery, contained about one hundred
cartridges each-- quite sufficient to have completely destroyed the battery and all in it.

Having satisfied myself that all was safe here, I at once turned my attention to the next most
pressing business of the moment, which was to secure the muskets, ammunition, provisions, and
water in the cutter, and to make the craft herself as safe as possible.  This was likely to
prove a somewhat hazardous task, as the canoes were now close to the beach and pressing rapidly
in on all sides.  I felt greatly averse to further slaughter; but in this case I scarcely saw
how it was to be averted, the natives being so pertinacious in their attacks.  It was quite
evident that we must either kill or be killed.  I therefore most reluctantly gave the order
for the discharge of the six nine-pounders which the battery mounted right into the thickest
of the crowd--the men to immediately afterwards rush for the boat, secure their muskets and
ammunition, and at once return to the battery.  This was done; and without pausing an instant
to note the effect away we all went down to the boat, seized as much as we could conveniently
carry, and immediately scampered back again.  The whole operation did not occupy more than
a couple of minutes; and I had the satisfaction of seeing all hands scramble back into the
battery before the natives had recovered from the check of our last discharge.

So far so good; but a great many things still remained in the boat, especially the provisions
and water, which it was absolutely necessary that we should secure; so I called for volunteers
to accompany me on a second trip to the cutter.  All hands proving equally willing to go, I
picked half-a-dozen, leaving the remainder in the battery to cover us with their muskets.

Leaping the low sod parapet of the battery we once more made a dash for the boat; and the natives,
catching sight of us, instantly raised a terrific yell and came paddling toward us at top speed.

"Out with your cutlasses, men!"  I exclaimed; "we shall have to fight our way back this time,
I believe.  Now each man seize as much as he can carry in one hand, and keep close together.
Now are you all ready? Then march.  Ah! capital!" as the lads in the battery bowled over three
or four blacks who had landed and were rushing down upon us.  "Now run for it!"

Away we went, helter-skelter, and once more got safely within the compass of our sheltering
walls, though not until I--who, of course, had to be last in seeking cover--had been overtaken
and surrounded by some half-a-dozen furious blacks, two of whom I succeeded in disabling with
my sword, whilst the remaining four were promptly placed hors-de- combat by the muskets of
those who were covering our retreat.

Taking fresh courage, perhaps, at our limited number, and possibly also feeling more at home
in a fight on dry land than when in their canoes, the natives now closed in upon us on all
sides, effecting a landing on the island and pressing forward, with loud cries and much brandishing
of spears, to attack the battery.  This battery, it may be well to explain, was a small equilateral
triangular affair built of sods, and measuring about thirty-five feet on each of its sides.
It mounted six nine- pounder brass guns, two to each side; and its walls rose to a height of
about seven feet above the ground outside, a ledge about three feet wide on the inside being
raised some three feet all round the interior of the walls, thus enabling those on the inside
to fire over the low parapet. The guns were mounted on ordinary ship carriages and were unprovided
with tackles, being placed upon wooden platforms slightly sloping forward, so that when loaded
they could be easily run out by hand, the recoil of the discharge sending them back up the
slight slope into loading position.  The three angles of the battery were, as has already been
intimated, occupied by the magazines.

The natives advanced boldly to the attack, and for the moment I must confess that I felt almost
dismayed as I looked around me and got a clear idea of their overwhelming numbers.  However,
there was no escape--we were completely hemmed in on every side; and if we were to die I thought
we might as well die fighting; so, waiting until they were within a few yards only of the walls,
I gave the order to fire, and the report of the six nine-pounders rang sharply out upon the
evening air. Each man then seized his loaded musket, saw that his naked cutlass was ready to
his hand, and waited breathlessly for the inevitable rush.

The round-shot ploughed six well-defined lanes through the approaching phalanx; but our persevering
foes had apparently become accustomed to the effects of artillery fire by this time, seeming
to regard it as a disagreeable concomitant to the struggle which must be faced, but which,
after all, was not so very formidable.  They had already acquired the knowledge that the guns,
once fired, were perfectly harmless until they could be re-loaded, and that the operation of
reloading required a certain amount of time.  The moment, therefore, that they received our
fire they charged down upon the battery, evidently feeling that the worst was over and that
it now amounted to no more than an ordinary hand-to-hand fight.  "Here they come, lads, with
a vengeance!"  I exclaimed.  "Take your muskets and aim low--make every bullet do double or
treble duty if you can.  Keep cool, and be careful not to throw a single shot away."

This was excellent advice to give, especially as the giver thereof needed it perhaps more than
any of those around him; but it was spoken with a calm and steady voice, and the lads responded
to it with a hearty and inspiring cheer.  They levelled their muskets carefully and steadily
over the top of the sod parapet, selecting a particular mark and firing only when they felt
sure of their aim, though at the moment a perfect cloud of spears came flying into the battery.
The next instant our foes were upon us, and then commenced a furious, breathless, desperate
hand- to-hand fight which lasted fully ten minutes--the blacks leaping upward or assisting
each other in their efforts to surmount the parapet, and we cutting and slashing right and
left without a moment's breathing-space in an equally determined effort to keep them out.

During the very thick of the fight light thin jets of smoke were seen to issue from the joints
and crevices in the wooden walls of the huge barrack-like structure to windward of us, the
jets rapidly growing in numbers and volume and being speedily succeeded by thin arrowy tongues
of flame which shot into view for a moment, disappeared, and then appeared again, darting along
the surface of the wood and uniting with others, until the entire building became completely
enveloped in the flames, which no doubt the Spaniards had kindled on their retreat, in order
to make assurance doubly sure, as it were, and in the event of their little scheme for the
destruction of the battery miscarrying, to deprive us of what would have afforded us an excellent
retreat in which to have withstood a siege.

The smoke, thick, pungent, and suffocating, from the tar and pitch with which the roof and
sides of the building had been from time to time liberally coated, drifted down directly upon
us in such dense volumes that it was difficult to see an arm's-length ahead, making the act
of breathing next to an impossibility, and causing our eyes to stream with water, whilst the
heat soon became almost insupportable.  Our enemies, however, did not seem to be in the slightest
degree incommoded either by the heat or the smoke, but, perceiving how greatly it embarrassed
us, pressed forward more eagerly than ever to the attack.  We, however, were fighting for our
lives, and it is astonishing how much men can do under such circumstances.  We actually succeeded
in keeping the foe outside our three walls, and finally, after a prolonged effort which inspired
us with a most profound sense of their individual intrepidity, they retired, carrying off their
dead and wounded with them.  They made a most daring attempt to carry off the cutter also with
them in their retreat, but fortunately she was secured by a chain attached to the anchor, the
latter being firmly embedded in the soil among the long grass; and the idea of pulling it up
not seeming to present itself to any of them, they were compelled to abandon the attempt, owing
to the galling musketry fire which we maintained upon them.

Exhausted, breathless, with our lips black with powder from the bitten ends of the cartridges,
our skins begrimed with smoke, and with the perspiration streaming down our bodies, we now
had a moment's breathing- space to look about us.  The ground inside the battery literally
bristled with the spears which had been launched at us, but, marvellous to relate, only three
of our number had been hurt in the recent scuffle, and that but very slightly.  The injuries,
such as they were, were promptly attended to, I at the same time doing what I could for poor
old Mildmay; the guns and muskets were re-loaded, and then, placing a look-out at each angle
of the battery, we sank down upon the ground and snatched such a hasty meal as was possible
under the circumstances.

I embraced the opportunity afforded by this interval of tranquillity to point out to my small
command the necessity for placing them upon a short allowance of food.  I reminded them that,
at the conclusion of the meal which we were then discussing, only one clear day's rations would
remain to us, and that, though the French boat had doubtless made good her escape down the
river--and, in that case, would probably reach the creek early enough that same evening to
make Captain Vernon acquainted with our critical situation--we could scarcely reckon upon the
appearance of a relief expedition under twenty-four hours from the time of speaking.  I added
that, further, it would be only wise to allow another twenty-four hours for possible unforeseen
delays, rendering it not improbable that we should have to pass forty-eight hours in our present
position, and that I had therefore decided, for these prudential reasons, that it would be
necessary to place the party for that period on half rations.  The men accepted this decision
of mine with the utmost readiness, and, in fact, seemed agreeably surprised to find that I
considered it likely we should be rescued in so short a time.

By the time that we had concluded our hasty meal the barrack--which after all, and notwithstanding
its size, was a mere wooden shell of a place--had become a shapeless heap of smouldering ruins,
and we were consequently to a great extent relieved of the annoyance from the heat and smoke.
Now that the place was actually destroyed I was glad rather than otherwise, for standing as
it did so close to the battery, it would, had it remained in existence, have afforded splendid
"cover" for the enemy, behind which they would have been enabled to steal close up to us unobserved,
necessitating a most unremitting watch, in spite of which a sudden unexpected rush might have
put them in possession of the battery.  Now, however, nothing in the nature of a surprise could
well occur, for by the destruction of the barrack we were enabled to obtain an uninterrupted
view from the battery all over the diminutive islet upon which it stood.

Half an hour after the conclusion of our meal the wind dropped away to a flat calm, the sun
went down behind the low range of hills which stretched away to the westward of us, the landscape
assumed a tint of rapidly deepening, all-pervading grey, the mist-wreaths rose from the bosom
of the whirling river and stealthily gathered about the island like a beleaguering army of
phantoms, and the solemn hush of night was broken only by the loud chirr of the insects and
the lapping ripple of the rushing stream.

Thicker and thicker gathered the mist about us until at last it became impossible to see across
from one side of the battery to the other, and then ensued an anxious time indeed for all of
us, and especially so for me, upon whom rested the responsibility of directing what steps should
be taken for the safety and preservation of the little force under me. Would the natives attempt
another attack that night under cover of the fog?  I thought it highly probable that they would,
seeing how important an advantage it would be to them to have the power of arranging their
forces and creeping up to the very walls of the battery undetected.  The idea indeed occurred
to me, that under cover of that same fog it might be possible for us to take once more to the
cutter, and, letting her drift with the current, in that way slip unobserved away down the
river. But a very few minutes' consideration of that scheme sufficed to convince me of its
impracticability.  I felt convinced that our enemies were quite shrewd enough to anticipate
and make due provision for any such attempt on our part.  I felt certain, indeed, that would
the fog but lift for a moment, of which, however, there was not the most remote probability,
we should find ourselves completely hemmed in by a cordon of canoes lying silently and patiently
in waiting for the undertaking of some such attempt on our part.  And, doubtless, all their
arrangements were so framed that, in the event of our making any such attempt, a simple signal
would announce our whereabouts and enable the entire flotilla to close in at once upon us;
in which case our fate must be certain and speedy.  No, I decided, the risk was altogether
too great and the prospects of success too infinitesimal to justify any such attempt.

Then as to the expected attack.  They would probably wait an hour or two, in the hope of tempting
us to venture afloat; then, failing that, they would cautiously close in upon the island, land,
steal up as close as possible to the battery, and then endeavour to overpower us with a sudden
rush.

Fortunately it was not absolutely dark, notwithstanding the fog, there being a moon in her
first quarter, which, though invisible, imparted a certain luminous quality to the haze; and
two or three stars of the first magnitude were faintly visible in the zenith, so that if any
fighting had to be done we should at least have light enough to distinguish between friend and foe.

This anticipation of an attempted surprise of course necessitated the maintenance of a keen
and incessant look-out I accordingly posted half my small command round the walls, with instructions
to fire unhesitatingly at any moving object which might come within their range of vision.
But I did not expect an immediate attack; indeed, the more I weighed the chances of such a
thing the less did they appear to be, and in the meantime we were in urgent need of water,
our stock being almost exhausted.  Hitherto we had refrained from drinking the river water,
it having a peculiar sweetish taste which scarcely suited our palates, but very soon it would
be "river water or nothing," and I thought that probably this pause of expectation, as it were,
would afford us as good an opportunity as we were likely to have for refilling our breakers.

I therefore directed the party who were not engaged upon sentry duty to make ready for a trip
to the river with two of the empty breakers.  But before engaging so large a portion of my
little force in an expedition which, though of the briefest, might expose them to great, because
unexpected, dangers, I resolved to reconnoitre the ground in person, and with this object in
view slipped noiselessly over the parapet to the ground outside, and throwing myself at full
length upon the grass, already wet with the heavy dew, commenced a slow and disagreeable journey
to the water side.  I intended at first to take a look at the cutter en passant, but a moment's
thought decided me against this course, it being just possible that I might find a few savages
either already established in possession or keeping a stealthy watch upon the boat in readiness
to pounce upon any incautious white man who might venture to approach her.  I accordingly set
out in a direction about at right angles to that which would have led me down to the boat,
and though this entailed a considerably longer journey I regarded it as also a very much safer one.

After a somewhat long and tedious journey--long, that is to say, in point of time, though the
distance traversed was very short--I reached the water's edge without adventure, and without
having seen the slightest sign indicating the presence of savages upon the island.  I therefore
hastened back to the battery--narrowly escaping being shot by one of our people, who, in his
excessive alertness, fired upon me without first giving the challenge--and hastily gathering
together the watering-party led them to the brink of the river and succeeded in securing a
couple of breakers of water, which I considered would be sufficient to last us for the next
twenty-four hours.

Then ensued a long period of tense, incessant, and painful watching for the enemy, who, I anticipated,
might make their appearance at any moment.  But hour after hour dragged laggingly away, the
whole force kept incessantly on the qui vive to guard against the expected attempt at surprise,
the men, wearied out by their excessive exertions of the previous day, needing a continuous,
uninterrupted round of visits from me to prevent their falling asleep upon their arms.

And thus the long night at length wore itself away; a faint glimmer of dawn appeared in the
eastern sky, rapidly brightening, the fog assumed a rosy flush, and presently up rose the glorious
sun, gleaming like a white-hot ball through the haze, a faint breeze from the westward sprang
up, the mist rolled away like a curtain, and there lay the noble river around us, sparkling
like a sheet of molten silver under the morning sunbeams.  And there, too, lay the flotilla
of canoes, completely hemming us in on every side, thus fully justifying the caution which
had prevented my attempting to effect an escape down the river during the preceding night.

It was exasperating now to the last degree to know that our night's rest had been thrown away
for nothing, and that, for all the benefit our vigilance had been to us, all hands might just
as well have lain down and gone to sleep all night; but repining was of no use; we had naturally
expected an attack and had held ourselves in readiness to meet it, and the only thing that
remained was to snatch what rest we could during the day.  It was a great advantage to be able
to once more see our enemies; and as there seemed to be no immediate disposition on their part
to make a move, I gave orders for breakfast to be got under weigh as speedily as possible,
stationing a look-out at each angle of the battery during the discussion of the meal.  We had
scarcely settled ourselves when the alarm was given that the canoes were advancing, and, leaping
to our feet, we found that such was indeed the case, the whole fleet having tripped their anchors
and begun paddling in toward the island.

We at once opened fire upon them from the nine-pounders as a matter of course, but the rascals
had not only learned wisdom but had also evidently very sharp eyes, for at the moment when
the match was about to be applied to the guns the canoes immediately in the line of fire smartly
swerved from their course and the shot went hissing harmlessly past, missing their mark by
the merest hair's-breadth.

Before we had time to load again the savages had effected a landing upon the beach, and then
ensued a repetition of the previous day's fighting, excepting that our antagonists fought with
their energies renewed by a quiet night's rest and more obstinately than ever, whilst we were
weary and fagged by our long and fruitless watch.  During the desperate struggle which consumed
the next quarter of an hour half a dozen natives managed at different times to actually force
their way into the battery, but luckily for us they got in only one at a time and they were
promptly despatched.

At last they were beaten off and compelled to retire to their canoes as before, carrying away
with them their killed and wounded--of whom I counted no less than thirty being borne away
by their comrades--our lads "freshening their way" for them with a hot musketry fire so long
as they remained within range.

Then followed another brief interval during which we finished our scanty breakfast, after which,
having seen the guns and muskets loaded afresh, I undertook to maintain a look-out, and ordered
the men to lie down and snatch such rest as they could get.

But our foes, wily as savages always are, had evidently in their recent hand-to-hand struggle
with us detected the evidences of our extreme fatigue, and were by no means disposed to allow
us much time or opportunity to recuperate our exhausted energies, for the men had scarcely
flung themselves upon the ground, where sleep instantly seized upon them, when the canoes were
once more put in motion and again the unhappy blue-jackets were called upon to resist an attack.
I now began to feel a strong suspicion that the enemy had quite counted upon our being kept
upon the alert during the whole of the previous night, the perfect silence which they had maintained
being, as they very probably surmised, rather a harassing than a reassuring circumstance to
us, and that they fully intended to take the fullest possible advantage of this during the
ensuing day.  But their heavy losses in killed and wounded had at the same time made them increasingly
wary, and for the next hour or two they contented themselves with a continuous series of demonstrations
which drew our fire and kept us incessantly on the alert, without actually renewing their attack.

At length the wind dropped away to a flat calm and the rays of the unclouded sun beat remorselessly
down upon us with a fierce intensity which in our exhausted condition was positive agony. 
A burning unquenchable thirst took possession of us, and the men resorted to the water-kegs
so incessantly that the water diminished with startling rapidity, and foreseeing the possible
difficulty of obtaining a further supply I was at last reluctantly compelled to put them upon
an allowance, so that very speedily we had thirst added to our other miseries.  And during
all this time our aching eyes were every moment directed down the river in the hope, which
grew less and less as the day wore on, of detecting the approach of the boats which we felt
certain were on their way to effect our rescue.

CHAPTER TWENTY.

RESCUED.

Finally the long, harassing, anxious day drew to a close, the sun set, the night-mists gathered
once more about us, and the hoped-for rescue had not appeared.

We were by this time completely worn out, and I foresaw that unless the men could obtain a
little rest our pertinacious enemies must inevitably prove victorious.

Of course in this matter of rest everything depended upon the behaviour of the foe.  If from
principle or superstition, or for any other reason, it was their invariable habit to abstain
from fighting at night all might yet be well with us, for though our stock of provisions and
water was getting low, and the ammunition for our muskets was getting short, I felt convinced
that, could our lads but secure three or tour hours of unbroken rest, they were quite equal
to holding the battery for another twenty-four hours at least.  Unfortunately I knew nothing
whatever about the fighting customs of the natives, and was consequently quite without a guide
of any kind beyond my own reason.  I felt convinced that the blacks had fully realised the
advantage to them of our fagged condition during the past day, and had little doubt but that
they were acute enough to trace it to its correct source; the question then was, would they
allow us to pass an undisturbed night and thus sacrifice an important advantage?  I greatly
doubted it.  But they might allow a few hours' cessation of hostilities in the hope of lulling
us into a feeling of false security, and thus making us the victims of an easy, yet well- executed
surprise.  The more I thought about the matter the more probable did this course of action
appear; and at last I resolved to put it to the test by dividing the men into watches and allowing
them an hour's sleep at a time.

But before doing this I thought I would repeat my experiment of the previous night and endeavour
to secure a little more water, and this I did with such signal success that we actually refilled
all our breakers, besides giving every man an opportunity to completely slake his thirst.

It was just eight o'clock p.m. by the time that we had completed our preparations, and I then
made half the men lie down, which they did, falling instantly asleep.  This of course necessitated
increased vigilance on the part of the watchers, each of whom had to guard a double length
of parapet; but the first hour passed peacefully away, and the sleepers were awakened in order
that we might have our turn.  It was really amusing, notwithstanding the gravity of our situation,
to hear each man protest as he sat up and rubbed his eyes that we had not treated them fairly,
and that they had only that moment fallen asleep. But when assured to the contrary they roused
up at once, and I was greatly gratified to see that, short as had been their period of rest,
it had undoubtedly done them a world of good.  The "watch on deck" was placed under the command
of the man Tom who had done such good service with the carronade on board the cutter, he being,
in my opinion, the most trustworthy man in the party; and giving him the most stringent orders
to keep a bright look-out, to fire at once and unhesitatingly on any moving object which might
make its appearance, and to call me in the event of anything taking place out of the common,
I flung myself upon the ground with my back to the sod parapet, and in the act of folding my
arms across my chest fell asleep.

To be cruelly awakened the next instant, almost before I had had time to fully realise the
blessedness of the gift of sleep.

"Well, Tom, what is it?  Has the enemy hove in sight!"  I exclaimed pettishly, rubbing away
at my eyes to force them open.

"No, sir; everything's still quiet, thank God."

"Then what did you wake me for, in Heaven's name!"

"Four bells, sir; our turn for a spell of sleep again, sir," was the exasperating reply.

"Four bells!  Nonsense!"

I could not believe it.  As in the case of the others it really seemed as though I had not
actually had time to get to sleep at all, yet I had slept soundly for an hour, and on staggering
to my feet, though the abrupt awakening had inflicted upon me positive suffering, I found when
fairly awake, that I was very distinctly the better for my short nap, which seemed to have
made up, at least partially, in soundness what it lacked in duration.

Another hour passed peacefully--and this time not quite so laggingly-- away; our turn again
arrived for a rest; and once more did we enjoy for a brief space the bliss of perfect oblivion.
At midnight we were called again, Tom reporting that neither sight nor sound had occurred during
his watch to disturb him.  We now began to feel really refreshed, and during the next hour
some of the men in my watch actually found superfluous energy enough to hum under their breath
a snatch or two of a forecastle song as they paced vigilantly to and fro over the short stretch
of ground which constituted their "beat."

As the silent hour flitted away without disquieting sight or sound of any kind I began to feel
sanguine that we were going to be blessed with uninterrupted peace for the remainder of the
night, and inwardly resolved that if matters still continued satisfactory after my watch had
had its next hour's sleep I would extend the period of sleep to two hours for the next watch,
which, with what they had already had, ought to put them in excellent trim for the fatigues
of the succeeding day, whatever they might be.  And with this resolve still uppermost in my
mind I laid down and once more dropped to sleep when my turn came at one o'clock a.m.

Two o'clock arrived, our watch was called, and still there had been no sign of the enemy. 
I thought we might now safely reckon upon being allowed to pass the remainder of the night
undisturbed; I accordingly informed the retiring watch that unless we happened to be attacked
in the interim they would now be allowed to sleep for a spell of two hours instead of one,
and they forthwith composed themselves for a good long nap.

But it was not to be.  An hour later one of the men startled us all into instant wakefulness
by sharply giving the challenge, which was instantly repeated all round the battery, and peering
anxiously into the fog I detected the indistinct presence of several shapeless objects lying
prone upon the ground where I knew that nothing of the kind ought to be. These objects were
quite motionless; but the man who had first given the challenge assured me that his attention
had first been attracted to them by a stealthy movement.  Ordering the man to at once rouse
the sleepers, cautioning them individually to take up their proper stations an noiselessly
behind the parapet, I waited until every man had gained his post, and then taking a steady
aim at one of the objects I discharged my musket.  With a shriek of pain the object at which
I had fired half raised itself to an erect position and then fell heavily forward.  At the
same moment a loud blood-curdling yell resounded upon the heavy night air, and the foggy background
instantly became alive with the forms of the savages who sprang to their feet and came bounding
toward the battery, hurling their spears as they came.

"Take steady aim, my men; select your mark, and each bring down your man if possible; keep
cool now.  Ah!  I am hit!"  I exclaimed, as a spear came whizzing in over the parapet, passing
clean through the fleshy part of my right thigh.  In the excitement of the moment it did not
take me a second to relieve myself of my unpleasant encumbrance by drawing the spear shaft
right through the wound; and the next moment I found myself engaged with the rest in resisting
the hottest and most determined assault to which we had hitherto been subjected.  Luckily for
us the battery was only a small affair, and our party was therefore large enough to take pretty
good care of it, otherwise that night attack would have ended the business.  But our men had
now had the benefit and refreshment of three hours' sound sleep, and they fought with such
renewed energy, such dogged determination, that the assault again failed, and the savages were
once more driven off.  That satisfied them for the time being.  They had deferred their attack
until the early hours of the morning, doubtless hoping to find us worn out with ceaseless watching,
and perchance at length overcome with sleep; and instead of that we had been found more alert
than ever; in their anxiety to take us unawares they had rather overdone it, in fact, and the
result was that they left us undisturbed for the short remainder of the night.

There was, however, no more rest for us; after this well-planned attempt at a surprise I dare
not allow any of my small party to again go off duty, and sunrise found us still anxiously
watching for another attack. When the mist at length cleared away we discovered the hostile
canoes still closely hemming us in; but they now seemed to have tired of their fruitless efforts
to take the battery by assault, and had apparently made up their minds to try the effect of
a regular siege.  This was bad enough; for our provisions, though husbanded with the utmost
care, were only sufficient to allow us a mere mouthful each for two meals during that day;
but to be spared the fatigue of constantly fighting was something to be grateful for; and I
felt certain that the relief expedition must appear before the lapse of many hours longer.
We consequently sat down to our scanty morning meal not only with excellent appetites but also
in very fair spirits, considering what we had lately been called upon to endure; and, the meal
over, I next devoted my attention to the wounded, of whom there were by this time several,
and did what I could to make them and myself as comfortable as possible.

About an hour after sunrise a little air from the eastward sprang up, and by nine a.m. it was
blowing quite a free breeze, which, though it certainly refreshed us greatly, and was in pleasing
contrast to the suffocating heat of the day before, I was rather sorry to see; for I knew that,
combined with the current, it would seriously retard the advance of our friends up the river.
To tell the truth, I was getting to be a trifle anxious about this matter; I could not at all
understand why it was that we had been left to take care of ourselves so long.  If the French
boat had reached the creek in safety she would doubtless arrive about ten or eleven p.m., or
a few hours only after our establishment of ourselves upon the island.  Forty hours or thereabouts
had elapsed since then, yet there was no sign of help.  Could it be possible that the Frenchmen
had not escaped after all?  In that case we might have to wait another day, or even a couple
of days; for I thought it scarcely probable that Captain Vernon would take alarm on the instant
of our becoming overdue.  I was anxiously weighing all these surmises in my mind, and endeavouring
to arrive at a fair and reasonable estimate of the longest possible time we might still be
expected to hold out, when the look-out men raised a simultaneous cheer, followed by a joyous
shout of--

"The boats!  The boats!  Here they come.  Hurrah!"  With one bound I reached the parapet; and,
sure enough, at a distance of only three- quarters of a mile away, and just sweeping fairly
into view from behind the next island below us, the launch, pinnace, and second cutter of the
Daphne appeared, with their ensigns streaming in the breeze and the quick-flashing oar-blades
and the bayonets of the "jollies" gleaming brightly in the sun.

"Up, lads! and give them a cheer, just to let them know where we are," I exclaimed exultantly;
and at the word up scrambled the whole of our little party except poor old Mildmay, who was
too seriously hurt to move without assistance--and from the top of the parapet we sent echoing
down to them upon the wings of the breeze three such ringing cheers as must have assured them
of the sincerity of our delight at their appearance. As the sound reached the boats I saw the
officers rise in the stern- sheets and wave their caps to us in response; the oar-blades flashed
quicker in the sun; the foam gathered in increasing volume under the bows of the boats as their
crews put on an extra spurt; and presently a flash and a puff of fleecy smoke started out simultaneously
from each boat, and the boom of the three reports came dull and heavy to us against the opposing
breeze.

Of course we fully expected that the mere appearance of the boats would suffice to put our
sable enemies to flight, but nothing of the kind happened; on the contrary, the canoes resolutely
faced the new-comers, and evinced a very decided disposition to dispute their passage up the river.

We should beat them to a certainty; no one in their sober senses could for a moment doubt that;
but in the meantime, if it actually came to a hand-to-hand tussle between whites and blacks
we in the battery, who had already had so many opportunities of observing their perfect fearlessness,
knew very well that the latter could make matters decidedly difficult and unpleasant for our
friends.

But it was no time just then for cogitation, the moment for decisive action had arrived, and
I forthwith took the necessary steps to enable our party to do their share of the work in hand.

"That will do, lads," I exclaimed, as the men on the parapet paused to recover the breath they
had expended in their vociferous greeting to the boats.  "Jump down and man the guns.  Load
and double shot them; and you, Tom, place the remainder of those fuzes in the magazine in such
a way that they will do their work effectually when required.  We will give the canoes another
broadside, just to `freshen their way' and show them that we are in earnest; and then I shall
abandon and blow up the battery previous to shoving off to join our lads yonder."

The men turned to with a will; the guns were loaded; and I then went with Tom to personally
inspect the arrangement of the fuzes.

When all was ready I gave the word to fire; the six guns belched forth their contents simultaneously;
and without waiting to see what damage had been done, the men seized their muskets, the water-kegs,
and our few other belongings; and with two hands specially detailed to convey the master carefully
down to the boat, all hands, excepting Tom and myself, left the battery and made the best of
their way down to the cutter, which, after depositing poor old Mildmay as comfortably as possible
in the stern-sheets, they got afloat.

"Step your mast," I shouted, "and see all ready for hoisting the sail."

We waited patiently until we saw that everything was ready on board the cutter; and then Tom
and I ignited the fuzes in the three magazines.  It was awfully risky work, as the fuzes were
fearfully short; but it had to be done, and it was done coolly and smartly, after which we
bounded over the low parapet and ran for our lives down to the boat.  "Shove off and give way
for your lives, men," I panted, as we tumbled in over the gunwale with a considerable loss
of shin-leather; and in another instant we were surging away from the island as fast as the
oars and sail would drive us.  The men were just belaying the halliards of the lug when--boom--a
dull heavy report came from the battery; a great black cloud of smoke and dust, liberally intermixed
with clods and stones and masses of earth, shot up into the air; and when it cleared away the
battery was gone.

"Now, Tom, jump forward, my man, and get that carronade loaded with grape or canister or langridge,
anything you happen to have handy, and be smart about it, my fine fellow," I exclaimed, as
I saw a group of canoes separate themselves from the rest and form in line across our course,
evidently for the purpose of opposing our passage and preventing our effecting a junction with
our friends.  "Load your muskets, men, and draw your cutlasses; we must get through that line
of canoes somehow, and I mean to do it."

The men obeyed without a word; their blood was by this time thoroughly aroused; they were all
a-quiver with eager excitement; and as I looked at them sitting there upon the thwarts, facing
forward, with their naked cutlasses beside them and their loaded muskets firmly grasped in
their hands, their fingers just feeling the triggers, their teeth clenched, and their eyes
flashing, I felt that nothing short of a frigate with her crew at quarters would stop them.

The rescuing party was by this time smartly engaged with the main body of the canoes, and by
their tardy progress I knew that they already had their hands fully occupied.  The detachment
which had assumed the responsibility of intercepting us had separated itself some distance
from the main body, and was now formed in a double line right across our course, altering its
position from time to time in such a manner as to keep always square ahead of us.  I saw that
it would be useless to attempt to dodge them; we had not time for that; so I directed the coxswain
to steer straight for the broadside of the midship canoe, the craft, that is to say, which
occupied the centre of the opposing line. She was a biggish craft for a canoe, being somewhere
about fifty feet long, and manned by forty negroes; the canoe which lay on her starboard side,
or beyond her, being about the same size.  There were sixteen more canoes in the line; and
altogether they presented the appearance of a very formidable barrier.  But I had had an opportunity
of learning pretty well what they were when Smellie and I, bound hand and foot, took our memorable
cruise up the river in one of them, and I knew that they were, after all, but very crank, flimsy,
fragile affairs, not to be compared for a moment in strength with the stout boat which carried
us at such a gallant pace over the swirling river.  So I determined to give our foolhardy opponents
the stem, trusting to the weight and momentum of the boat to enable us to break through the line.

On rushed the cutter, the breeze roaring merrily over her, and the broad lag-sail dragging
at her like a team of cart-horses; whilst Tom crouched in the bows, squinting along the sights
of his piece, and holding himself in readiness to fire at the instant that he should get the
order.  We were within a hundred feet of the line of canoes when the crew of the big craft
began to see danger; they had hoped, by their persistent demonstration of barring our path,
to intimidate us, but, now that it was too late, they saw that they had failed, that we meant
mischief; and, setting up a loud yell of consternation, they plied their paddles desperately
in an effort to avoid the impending collision.  It was unavailing; the canoes ahead and astern
of them, confused like themselves, and only imperfectly comprehending what their comrade would
be at, closed in upon instead of separating from them; and immediate dire confusion was the
result.  When within twenty yards of them Tom delivered the contents of his carronade; and
an immediate outburst of groans, yells, and shrieks bore testimony to the accuracy of his aim.
Before the smoke had fairly cleared away the cutter was upon them.  The big canoe nearest us
had been torn nearly in halves by the discharge of the carronade, and we swept over her almost
without feeling it.  The other big fellow was, however, afloat and apparently uninjured.  Another
yell of terror went up from her occupants as our sail overshadowed them; there was a violent
shock as our strong iron-bound stem crashed down upon their gunwale; the canoe heeled over;
and the cutter leaped upward as she crushed her way through and over this second adversary.

For a few seconds we were involved in a confused medley of canoes and wreckage, of drowning
savages wildly clutching at the gunwales of the boat in an ineffectual effort to save themselves;
there was a rattling volley of musketry, a flash or two of cutlass blades, and then away sped
the cutter once more.  We were through.

Our carronade was quickly loaded again, but happily further destruction of human life was unnecessary.
The savages, who seemed to have depended implicitly upon the power of their detached squadron
to stop us, became demoralised when they saw the cutter dash irresistibly through the opposing
line, and receiving at the same time very severe treatment at the hands of the rescuing party,
they broke up suddenly and beat a precipitate retreat, each canoe seemingly striving to outdo
the rest in the speed of its flight.  And thus ended victoriously for us the fight which we
had been for over forty hours maintaining against such apparently overwhelming odds.

We soon found ourselves alongside the launch; and hearty were the congratulations and eager
the questions which were showered upon us by her crew, quickly repeated by those of the other
two boats, which joined in almost immediately afterwards.

"You seem to have been in rather a bad fix," exclaimed Armitage, who was in command of the
boats, as he shook me heartily by the hand.  "Tell us all about it."

I detailed as succinctly as possible all that had transpired since our departure from the ship,
and wound up by a suggestion that if they had any spare rations they would be most acceptable.

"Rations!" exclaimed Armitage; "to be sure we have, my boy; but let us adjourn to this island
of yours, where we can get them properly cooked. I feel curious to see the spot which you held
so pluckily for so long a time.  But, by the by, where is the French boat all this time?"

"The French boat?  Has she not turned up at the creek?"  I exclaimed in surprise.  "We felt
certain of her escape, and indeed depended upon the information she would convey of our predicament
for the despatch of assistance."

"She had not put in an appearance up to the time of our starting at noon yesterday, nor have
we seen any sign of her during our passage up the stream," was the reply.  "You were due to
return, you know, the evening before last, and when yesterday morning came, without your appearance,
Captain Vernon became uneasy.  He allowed you until noon, however; but when noon passed, leaving
you still non est, he came to the conclusion that something was amiss, and despatched us in
quest of you at once.  So this is the scene of the struggle, eh?" as the boats grounded on
the beach of the island.  "A pretty scene of ruin it is."

And so it was.  The battery had been completely obliterated by the explosion, nothing remaining
to mark its site but the scattered fragments of the sod walls and the dismounted guns; the
charred remains of the barrack, a short distance away, aiding to complete the picture of destruction.
An immense number of native spears were lying scattered about all over the ground, and these
were promptly collected by the seamen as souvenirs of the struggle.

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.

AN AWFUL CATASTROPHE.

Meanwhile the Spaniards were still lying perdu on board the hulk as they had remained from
the moment of our driving them out the battery. During the discussion of our much-needed meal
the question of what steps we should take with regard to them had been canvassed; and, our
appetites at length satisfied, Armitage and I walked across the island to make a closer inspection
of the position of the craft.

I had wondered greatly, at odd times during our protracted struggle with the savages, how the
Spaniards had managed to transfer so rapidly from the barrack to the hulk the large number
of slaves which the former must have contained, and now the riddle was solved.  On arriving
abreast of the hulk we found that a small timber jetty had been constructed from the shore
to a point within fifty yards of the hulk, and we could see in a moment that by easing off
the moorings of the hulk, the current would carry her fairly alongside this jetty, where, without
doubt, she must have been lying when we first hove in sight.  The slaves had evidently been
marched straight on board her over the jetty, and her bow and stern moorings then hove in until
she had been hauled far enough away from the jetty to render her capture by its means impossible.

After a little further conversation with Armitage it was agreed that the Spaniards should be
hailed and ordered to surrender, and this was accordingly done.  We had no very great hope
of success, as we felt sure the Spaniards must be fully aware of the difficulty we should experience
in capturing the hulk.  As before stated, she towered so high out of the water and her sides
were so bare that the Spaniards, small as was their number, could effectually resist all our
efforts to capture her by boarding; to fire into and sink her would only result in the destruction
of all the slaves on board her; and as she was moored with heavy chains, instead of hemp hawsers,
to cut her adrift and let her ground upon the island was quite as impracticable as would have
been any attempt to board her.

We were therefore very agreeably surprised when the Spaniards, in response to our hail, at
once consented to abandon the hulk, provided we would allow them to depart unmolested in their
boat.  This arrangement suited us very well, we being just then anything but anxious to hamper
ourselves with prisoners, and the required promise was unhesitatingly made.  The Spaniards
thereupon provisioned their boat, lowered her into the water, and half an hour later disappeared
round a bend of the river on their way down stream.  Taking immediate possession of the hulk,
we dropped her in alongside the jetty once more, and landed the slaves upon the island.  They
were all, for a wonder, in fairly good condition, having evidently been well taken care of,
with the view of fitting them as thoroughly as possible to withstand the terrible hardships
of the notorious Middle Passage.

Having at length cleared the hulk we next transferred the slaves in batches to the boats, by
which they were conveyed across the stream to the mainland, where they were freed and left
to shift for themselves, the provisions found on board the hulk being distributed as evenly
as possible among them.  Landed thus in a possibly hostile country--for they were evidently
a different race of people from those with whom we had recently had so desperate a struggle--unarmed,
and with only a small supply of provisions, their situation was perhaps not very much better
than it had been when they lay prisoners on board the hulk, but it was all we had it in our
power to do for them under the circumstances, and we could only hope that their wit would prove
equal to the task of steering them clear of the many dangers to which they were exposed, and
conducting them safely back to their own country.  There were rather more than eight hundred
of them altogether, counting in the piccaninnies, and the transfer of them to the mainland
fully occupied us until within half an hour of sunset.  As we were by that time pretty well
fagged out, and as it was manifestly too late to make any progress worth speaking of on our
way back to the creek that night, we resolved to remain until daylight upon the island, which
we did without receiving molestation or annoyance of any kind from anybody.

At eight o'clock on the following morning, having previously breakfasted, we started down the
river, keeping a bright look-out for the French boat all the way down, and exploring all the
most likely creeks and indentations on the south bank of the river, without discovering any
trace of her.  This protracted search so seriously delayed our progress that we were two whole
days making the passage back to the creek, and on our arrival there we discovered that three
survivors of the French party had turned up on board the Vestale the previous day, reporting
the capture of the boat by the natives, and the massacre of all hands except the three who
had managed somehow to slip their bonds and make good their escape in a canoe.  They had reported
that their capture was due to our abandonment of them, it appeared, and the insinuation, which
Captain Vernon had indignantly repudiated, had occasioned a very serious outbreak of ill-feeling
between the two ships, so much so indeed that the commander of the Vestale had left the river
in high dudgeon on the morning of the day of our arrival, refusing absolutely to co-operate
with us any further.  I was, of course, subjected to a very severe cross-examination by Captain
Vernon on the subject; but my detailed narrative of the affair, which was confirmed in every
particular by poor old Mildmay, soon satisfied him that the fault, if fault there was, rested
not with us; and both Mildmay and myself were fully exonerated from all blame.  Nay more--the
master generously represented my defence of the battery in such a light that I received the
skipper's highest commendations and renewed promises of support and assistance in my career.

At sunrise next morning we weighed and stood out to sea, bound on a cruise to the westward.

The next two months passed away in the most drearily uneventful manner, the ship being at sea
the whole time.  At the end of that period, being in latitude 4 degrees south and longitude
5 degrees east on our way back to the Congo, the ship standing to the northward and eastward
at the time, under all plain sail, with light baffling south-easterly airs, the look-out aloft,
just before being relieved at noon, reported two sail, close together, hove-to broad on our
lee bow.  The usual form of questions being duly put by Armitage, who happened to be the officer
of the watch, the further information was elicited that one of them was a brig and the other
a full-rigged ship, but of what nationality they were it was difficult to say, nothing but
the heads of their topgallant-sails being visible above the horizon from our fore-topmast crosstrees.
The matter being reported to Captain Vernon, orders were given for our course to be so altered
as to allow of our edging down upon the strangers; the fact of their being hove-to so close
together having a somewhat suspicious appearance.

By three o'clock p.m. we had neared the two vessels sufficiently to bring their hulls into
view from the main-royal-yard; they were then lying broadside-on to us with their heads to
the eastward, the ship being between us and the brig; but by the aid of our glasses we were
able to make out that they had apparently dropped alongside each other, and the skipper gave
it as his decided opinion that foul play was going on on the part of one or the other of the
two craft.  This opinion was shortly afterwards confirmed by the appearance of thick clouds
of black smoke arising from the ship; the brig hauling off and standing to the westward under
every stitch of canvas she could spread.

"Undoubtedly a most daring act of piracy, committed under our very noses, too," commented the
skipper to me as the smoke rose up into the clear atmosphere and hung like a great pall immediately
over the doomed ship.  We were walking together fore and aft upon the quarter-deck at the time,
whistling most earnestly and devoutly for a wind, as indeed were all hands fore and aft.  Suddenly
Captain Vernon paused, and, wetting the back of his hand, held it up to the air.

"The wind is failing us," he remarked, and abruptly dived below to his cabin.

At the same moment I noticed that the corvette was heading three or four points to the eastward
of her course.

"Hard up with your helm, man," I exclaimed impatiently to the man at the wheel.  "Where are
you taking the ship?"

"The wheel is hard over, sir," explained the poor fellow with patient deference; "but she's
lost steerage-way."

Just then the skipper returned to the deck.

"Pipe away the first and second cutters, Mr Hawkesley," he exclaimed sharply.  "Take charge
of them yourself with one of the midshipmen to help you, and pull down to the burning ship.
As likely as not you will find that a similar trick has been played there to the one by which
that unfortunate man Richards and his crew so nearly lost their lives.  Let the crews of the
boats take their cutlasses and pistols with them, so as to be prepared in the event of interference
from the brig's crew, and make all the haste you can.  Your first duty is to save the crew;
your next to save the ship if possible.  The glass is rising, so there will be no wind; but
I shall do what I can to shorten the distance between us and the brig yonder.  When you have
done all that is possible on board the ship, make a dash for the brig, unless you see the recall
signal flying."

Three minutes later the two cutters were darting swiftly away over the long glassy undulations
of the ground-swell toward the great cloud of smoke on the horizon which served as a beacon
for us; the men pulling a long steady stroke, which, whilst it sent the boats through the water
at a very fair pace, could be maintained for three or four hours at least.

We were scarcely a mile away from the Daphne when she had the rest of her boats in the water
and ahead of her towing, whilst, dangling from the yard-arms aloft, could be seen hammocks
and bags of shot suspended there to assist--by the swinging motion imparted to them by the
rise and fall of the vessel over the swell--the ship's progress through the water.  The brig
was hull-down to us; but from the steadiness with which her head was kept pointing to the westward
I conjectured that she was either sweeping or being towed by her boats.

The sun set in a perfectly clear and cloudless sky, just as we had brought the ship hull-up;
but by that time she was a mass of flame fore and aft, and I began to fear that we should be
too late to save her crew or to do any good whatever on board her.  We kept steadily on, however,
and reached her half an hour later.

The three masts went over the side when we were within a cable's length of the burning ship,
and on arriving within fifty feet of her we found it impossible to approach any nearer, owing
to the intense heat.  It was manifestly impossible that any living thing could be in the midst
of that fiercely flaming furnace, so we were compelled to content ourselves with merely ascertaining
the name of the unfortunate craft, which with considerable difficulty we at length made out
to be the Highland Chieftain of Glasgow--after which we left her.

On pulling out clear of the smoke and glare of the flames once more we found ourselves to be
about six miles distant from the brig, a distance of about eleven miles intervening between
us and the Daphne.  Night had by this time closed completely down upon us; the deep clear violet
sky above us was thickly powdered with stars, which were waveringly reflected in the deep indigo
of the water beneath, and away to the eastward the broad disc of the full moon was just rising
clear of the horizon and casting a long rippling wake of golden light from the ocean's rim
clear down to us.

Our first glance was of course in the direction of the Daphne.  Her towering spread of canvas
alternately appeared and vanished as the enormous idly flapping sails caught and lost again,
with the heave of the vessel, the glint of the golden moon-beams; but, save this, all was dark
and still on board her; no lanterns flashed in her rigging as a recall signal, so I exultingly
gave the order for the boats to be headed straight for the brig, determined to win her if dash
and courage could do it.

"Pull steadily, lads," I cautioned, as the two crews bent their backs, and with a ringing cheer
started the boats in racing style; "no racing now, we cannot afford the strength for it, all
you have will be wanted when we get alongside the chase; she is doubtless well manned with
a determined crew who will not give in without a tough struggle, so husband your strength as
much as possible.  Mr Peters," to the midshipman in charge of the second cutter, "drop in my
wake, sir, if you please, and see that your men do not overtask themselves."

The men obediently eased down at once, and we jogged steadily along at a pace of about four
knots an hour; but their eagerness soon got the better of them, the pace gradually increased,
and I had to constantly check them, or we should soon have been tearing away as fiercely as ever.

This state of things lasted for about half an hour, and then the gleam of lanterns suddenly
appeared in the Daphne's rigging.  It was the recall signal, and the men gave audible vent
to their feeling of disappointment in an involuntary groan.

"Never mind, men," I said; "I have no doubt Captain Vernon has some good reason for it.  Answer
the signal, coxswain.  Ah!  I told you so; the sloop has a little breeze, and here it comes
creeping up astern of us. Step the mast, take the covers off the sails, and get the canvas
on the boats.  Do you see that bright red star close to the horizon, coxswain? Starboard a
bit.  So, steady, now you have it fair over the boat's stem. Steer for it, and we shall just
drop alongside the loop nicely, without troubling her to wait for us."

The breeze soon reached us, toying coyly with the boat's canvas at first, but gradually bellying
out the sails until at last they "went to sleep."  The breeze was, after all, merely the gentlest
of zephyrs, only just sufficient to give a ship steerage-way; but, very fortunately for us,
the boats were provided, by a whim of poor Austin's, with a suit each of enormous lateen sails
made of light duck, with yards of such a length that they had to be jointed in the middle to
enable them to be stowed in the boats; they were just the thing for light airs, and under their
persuasive influence we were soon gliding smoothly through the scarcely ruffled water quite
as fast as the men could have propelled us with the oars.  An hour later we slid handsomely
up alongside the sloop, which by this time was slipping along at the rate of about five knots
under studding-sails and everything else that would hold a breath of wind, and the boats were
hoisted in without any interruption to the ship's progress.

"Well, Mr Hawkesley, what news from the burning ship?" exclaimed the skipper as I stepped up
to him to make my report.

I explained to him the state in which we had found the vessel when we reached her, and gave
him her name.

"Ah!" he remarked.  "Well, it is a bad job, a very bad business altogether.  I can only hope
we may find the crew uninjured on board the brig when we catch her; but I think it is rather
doubtful.  Now run away down into my cabin and tell Baines to give you some dinner.  I expect
everything will be cleared away in the ward-room by this."

On descending to the cabin I found that the skipper had been considerate enough to give orders
that a nice little dinner should be ready for me on my return, and those orders having been
carried out to the letter I was enabled to sit down in peace and enjoy the meal for which the
long pull in the boats had given me a most voracious appetite.  The meal over, it being then
my watch below, I turned in.

On relieving Mr Armitage at midnight I found that the weather was still fine, the wind the
merest shade fresher than it had been when I left the deck, and the chase directly ahead, about
twelve miles distant, her upper canvas showing distinctly in the brilliant rays of the moon.
We had gained upon her about a couple of miles during the four hours I had been below, and
Captain Vernon--who had been on deck during the whole of the previous watch, and was just about
to retire for the night--was in high spirits, and confident in his belief that, if all went
well, we should make the capture before sunset on the following day.  The best helmsman in
my watch was ordered to the wheel.  I made a regular tour of the decks, taking an extra pull
at a halliard here, easing off an inch or so of this brace or that sheet, and, in short, doing
everything possible to increase the speed of the ship, and so my watch passed away; the Daphne
having crept another couple of miles nearer to the chase during the interval.

Thus matters went on until noon of the following day, when the wind once more showed symptoms
of failing, whilst the sky became overcast, threatening a change of weather.  We had by this
time shortened the distance between ourselves and the chase until a space of only some seven
miles or so separated us, and everybody on board, fore and aft, was in a fever of impatience
to get alongside the brig, which our glasses had already assured us was none other than the
notorious Black Venus.  She had already proved herself so slippery a customer that an almost
superstitious feeling had sprung up in our breasts with regard to her; we felt that however
closely we might succeed in approaching her, however helplessly she might seem to be in our
power, there could be no dependence whatever upon appearances, and that until we had absolutely
succeeded in placing a prize crew upon her decks, and her own crew in irons, we could not feel
by any means certain that she was ours.  Hence the extraordinary feeling of excitement and
impatience which prevailed on board the Daphne on that memorable afternoon.

About two o'clock the wind changed, and we were obliged to take in the studding-sail on the
port side and get a pull upon the port braces. Meanwhile a heavy bank of clouds had gathered
in the south-western quarter, and was gradually working up against the wind, until by three
o'clock p.m. the sun was obscured and the entire heavens blotted out by the huge murky mass
of seething vapour.  It was my watch below, but, like everybody else, I was much too excited
to remain anywhere but on deck, and, to confess the truth, I did not half like the appearance
of things in general.  According to my notions we were about to experience one of those sudden
and violent atmospheric changes which are so frequently met with in the tropics; yet there
was the ship with a whole cloud of studding-sails set on the starboard side, as well as every
other rag of canvas that could be coaxed to do an ounce of work.  "If," thought I, "my knowledge
of weather is worth anything, all hands of us will be pretty busy before long, and we shall
be lucky indeed if we do not lose some of our spars, as well as an acre or two of those flying-
kites up aloft there."  I even forgot myself so far as to gently insinuate such a possibility
to Mr Armitage, but I was so sharply snubbed for my pains that I determined to interfere no
further whilst off duty, but to keep my eyes open and be ready to lend a hand whenever and
wherever required.

Captain Vernon was of course on deck, and from the anxious way in which he from time to time
glanced, first at the portentous sky overhead, next at the chase, and finally at our immense
spread of canvas, I felt sure that he, to some extent, shared my apprehensions.

At length, after a more than usually anxious glance round, he went to the skylight and took
a peep apparently at the barometer.  I was watching him, and I saw him start and take another
keen look at it. Then he suddenly dived down the companion-way into the cabin to make a closer
inspection of it, as I conjectured.  My curiosity was aroused, and I was walking aft to take
a look at the instrument through the skylight on my own account, when the canvas suddenly flapped,
and the next second, without further warning of any description, a perfect tornado burst upon us.

The ship was taken flat aback, and over she went, bowing helplessly before the irresistible
strength of the hurricane.  I thought I heard Armitage's voice shouting an order of some kind,
but if such was the case it was impossible to distinguish the words through the deafening rush
of the wind, which completely swallowed up all other sounds.  As I felt the deck rapidly heeling
under my feet I made a desperate scrambling spring for the nearest port on the weather side;
for I somehow seemed to realise instinctively that the Daphne's brief career was ended--that
she would never again recover herself, but would "turn the turtle" altogether.  The ominous
words of the riggers on that day when, in the first flush of my new-born dignity, I went down
to inspect the craft which was to be my future home, recurred to my mind as vividly as though
they had that moment been spoken, and I felt that the prophecy lurking behind them was then
in the very act of fulfilment.  I was fortunate enough to reach and grasp one of the gun-tackles,
and drawing myself up to windward by its aid, I passed out through the open port on to the
upturned weather side of the ship, where I paused for a moment to glance behind, or rather
beneath me.  I shall never forget the sight which then met my gaze.  The ship was lying over
on her beam-ends with her lower yard-arms deeply buried in the sea.  The whole of the lee side
of the deck was submerged; the water was pouring in tons down the open hatchways, the lee coamings
of which were already under water, and the watch below could be seen ineffectually endeavouring
to make their way up on deck through these openings, the rush of water down which irresistibly
drove them back again at each attempt.  As for the watch on deck they were already either swimming
about in the sea to leeward or clinging convulsively to the rigging, whither a few had instinctively
betaken themselves when the ship first went over.  But I had time only for a momentary glance;
the sloop had hung stationary in this position for just the barest perceptible space of time;
then with a sudden jar she began to settle once more, and I had time only to scramble breathlessly
along her wet and slippery sides and on to her bilge when she rolled fairly over and floated
keel upwards.  And as she did so, a hideous shriek rang out from her interior and became audible
even above the awful rush of the gale.

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO.

AN ABDUCTION AND AN IMPORTANT CAPTURE.

For a few moments I felt bewildered--stunned--by the awful suddenness of this frightful catastrophe;
the piercing shrieks of despair, too, which continued to issue from the interior of the vessel,
unmanned me, and I crouched there upon the upturned bottom of the fabric like one in a dream.
I felt that it was a dream; the disaster was too complete and too unexpected to be real, and
I waited there, frozen with horror, anxiously looking for the moment when I should awake and
be released from the dreadful nightmare.

But the sight of some half-a-dozen men battling for their lives in the water to leeward of
the hull, and vainly struggling to reach the main- topgallant-mast--which had gone at the first
stroke of the hurricane, and having somehow broken adrift from the topmast-head, now lay floating,
with all attached, a few yards away--brought my senses back to me, and abandoning my precarious
refuge I sprang into the sea and assisted the men, one after the other, to reach the floating
spars.  As I looked round me, in the vain hope of discovering further survivors, a few more
spars floated up to the surface--a spare topmast, a studding- sail boom or two, the fore-topgallant-mast,
with royal-mast, yards, and sails attached; and finally a hen-coop with seven or eight drowned
fowls in it.  All these I at once took measures to secure, knowing that our only hope of ultimate
escape--and a very frail and slender hope it then appeared--rested upon the possibility of
our being able to construct a raft with them.  In this attempt we were fortunately successful,
and sunset found us established on a small but fairly substantial and well- constructed raft.
We mustered seven hands all told, six seamen and myself--seven only out of our entire crew!
And so far we were safe. But as I looked, first at the frail structure which supported us,
and then at the boundless waste of angry sea by which we were environed, and upon which we
were helplessly tossed to and fro, I thought in my haste that it would have been better after
all if we had shared the fate of our comrades, now at rest in their ocean grave and beyond
the reach of those sufferings which seemed only too surely to await us.  Then better thoughts
came to me.  I reflected that whilst there was life there was hope, and that the Hand which
had been outstretched to preserve us whilst others had been allowed to perish, was also able
to save us to the uttermost, if such should be the Divine Will.  And was it not our duty to
submit to that Will, to endure patiently whatever might be in store for us?  Assuredly it was;
and I humbly bowed my head in silent thanksgiving and prayer--thanksgiving for my preservation
so far, and prayer that I might be given strength and patience to endure whatever privation
or sufferings might come to me in the future.

Whilst constructing the raft we had been too busy to note more than the bare fact that we were
being gradually but perceptibly swept away from the capsized hull of the unfortunate Daphne;
but when our work was at length completed and we had a moment to look around us, our first
glances were directed to windward in search of the wreck She was nowhere to be seen, and we
had no doubt that, whilst we had been so busily employed, the wreck had gradually settled deeper
and deeper into the water until she had gone down altogether.

Most fortunately--or most providentially I ought rather to say--for us, the tornado had been
as brief in its duration as it had been disastrous in its effects, otherwise we could never
have hoped to survive.  In little more than ten minutes from the capsizing of the sloop the
strength of the hurricane was spent, and the wind dropped to a fresh working breeze.  Of this
circumstance the Black Venus promptly availed herself--her crew having undoubtedly observed
the disaster--by bearing up and standing to the eastward under every inch of canvas she could
spread.  Our first impression on witnessing this manoeuvre was that, animated by some lingering
spark of humanity in their breasts, her people were returning in quest of possible survivors;
but this hope was speedily extinguished by the sight of the brig sweeping to leeward and passing
us at a distance of about half a mile, with her crew busily engaged in the operation of crowding
sail upon their vessel.  We stood up and waved to her as she passed, and I have no doubt whatever
that we were seen; but no notice was taken of us, and she soon swept out of sight to leeward.
I hardly expected any other result, and was consequently by no means discouraged at this fresh
instance of inhumanity; indeed, had they taken it into their heads to rescue us, it is probable
that our lot among them would have been little if any better than it was out there on the open
ocean, drifting about upon our tiny raft.

When night fell we had had sufficient time to fully realise the peril and hopelessness of our
position; and I think most of us fully made up our minds that we were destined to a lingering
death from starvation, unless, indeed, the end should happen to be precipitated by the springing
up of another gale or some equally fell disaster.

But our gloomy anticipations were destined to be speedily and pleasantly dissipated, for at
dawn on the following morning we were agreeably surprised by the sight of a sail in the northern
quarter--the craft evidently heading directly for us.  The wind was blowing from the westward
at the time, a five-knot breeze; the weather was clear and the sea had gone down, leaving nothing
but the swell from the blow of the preceding day.  We accordingly set to work and unhesitatingly
cut adrift one of the smaller spars of which our raft was constructed, and, hastily securing
the crazy fabric afresh, reared the spar on end, with my shirt--the only white one among us--lashed
to its upper extremity as a signal.

The hour which followed was one of most agonising suspense.  Would she or would she not alter
her course before observing our signal?  The helmsman was not steering quite as steadily as
he might have done, and our hearts went into our mouths and a cry of anguish involuntarily
escaped our lips every time the stranger showed a tendency to luff to windward or fall off
to leeward of her course.  At length, however, our apprehensions were set at rest; for just
as her hull was rising above our limited horizon we saw a sudden flash from her side, followed
by a puff of white smoke, and a few seconds later the sharp ringing report of a gun came wafted
down to us.  Then her topgallant-sails and royals fluttered a moment in the cool morning breeze
as they were rapidly sheeted-home and mast-headed; and half an hour later the Virginia-- yes,
there could be no doubt about it, it was our latest prize; and there, abaft the main rigging,
stood the well-known figure of Smellie himself--the Virginia hove-to close to windward of us,
a boat was lowered, and we soon found ourselves standing safe and sound on the brig's deck,
the cynosure of all eyes and the somewhat bewildered recipients of our former comrades' eager
questions.

As for Smellie, with the considerate kindness which was always one of his most prominent characteristics,
he first gave orders that the half- a-dozen hands rescued with me should receive every attention,
and then carried me off to his own cabin and rigged me in a jury suit of his own clothes--which,
by the way, were several sizes too big for me--whilst my own togs were drying; and then, giving
orders for breakfast to be served in the cabin at the earliest possible moment, he sat down
and listened to my story.

His distress at the loss of so many friends was keen and sincere, but it did not for a moment
obscure his sound common sense.  A few minutes sufficed me to give him a hasty outline of the
disaster and to make him acquainted with the direction of our drift during the night; the which
he had no sooner ascertained than he altered the brig's course as much as was necessary to
take her over the scene of the catastrophe, at the same time sending three hands aloft to keep
a sharp look-out for wreckage or any other indications that we were nearing the spot, and especially
for possible survivors.

Half an hour later we passed a grating, then a spare studding-sail boom, then a couple of hen-coops
close together; after which fragments of wreckage became increasingly frequent until we reached
a spot where one of the Daphne's boats was found floating with her stern torn out of her; several
hatch-covers, the mizen topgallant-mast and sail, three dead sheep, a wash-deck tub, and other
relics being in company; after which the wreckage suddenly ceased.  We had evidently passed
over the spot where the Daphne had gone down.  And the brig was immediately hove-to and all
the boats despatched upon a search expedition--unhappily a vain one, for not a sign of another
survivor could be found, nor even a dead body to which we could give decent and Christian burial.

This melancholy fact at length indubitably established, Smellie gave the order to make sail,
shaping a course for the Congo, whither we felt sure the Black Venus had made the best of her way.

Crowding sail upon the Virginia we made the passage to the river's mouth in a trifle over five
days, during the last three of which the wind was light and variable with us, anchoring in
Banana Creek at two p.m. on the fifth day from that on which we had been picked up.  The Virginia
having succeeded in completing her complement of officers and men at Sierra Leone, the half-dozen
picked up with me had been acting as supernumeraries on board, whilst I had simply been Smellie's
guest.  I was very much gratified, therefore, when he invited me to go with him in the boat
on a search expedition to ascertain, if possible, the whereabouts of the redoubtable Black Venus.

We started in the gig that same afternoon as soon as the ship was moored, Smellie being of
opinion that we should find the object of our quest snugly moored within the creek below Don
Manuel's house, where we had seen her on the eventful evening when we captured the Josefa;
and this creek being situate at some distance up the river, it was necessary that we should
make an early start in order to be back on board before the rising of the evening mists.

We reached the creek in due course without adventure, and began cautiously to ascend it.  Mile
after mile we made our way, landing at the extremity of every reach and carefully reconnoitring
the succeeding one before entering it with the boat; but our search was in vain--we arrived
at the head of the creek without finding a single trace of the brig, or indeed of any other vessel.

Being there, it was only natural that Smellie and I should feel a strong desire to see once
more the kind host and gentle hostess who had so generously nursed and entertained us in the
time of our sore need. He demo them when to forge instrument are put from rock and when to utilize over
lankiness. He teach them how to do blade and more alone arm, merely that thus they wouldn't be industrious
to draw for umbrella had not proved on atropine without more spokes. He there was the deity
until a antagonists. And in assist them he establish that he had
been no Aoooya.

Come until the night when the community were decide to being. A forenoon
as the ceremonial before his old oracle had however been finish,
and Bradley was not have satisfy.

Something was not be careful. The mho from Virginia, His aoooya, Madera said what could have it was.
To Yanyoo up the chorus, none of these person who look until have
their vulcan fright of i neared.

  There it stood
just as we had last seen it, door and windows wide open, the muslin curtains at the windows
waving idly in the fitful breeze, and the bamboo lounging-chairs--one of them overturned--under
the verandah.

We stepped briskly out, warm work though we had found it breasting the hill, and passed up
the main avenue leading to the front door--Smellie keeping his eyes intently fixed upon the
said front door, doubtless in the hope of seeing Dona Antonia emerge, and of enjoying her first
glance of surprise and delight.  I of course had no such inducement to look straight ahead,
and my glances therefore wandered carelessly here and there to the right and left, noting the
exquisite shapes and colours of the flowers and fruit and the luxuriant foliage and delightful
shade of the trees.

Whilst thus engaged my wandering thoughts were suddenly arrested by the appearance of several
large and heavy footprints in the sandy soil of the footpath; and whilst I was still idly wondering
what visitors Don Manuel could have so recently had and from whence they could possibly have
come, my eye lighted upon a single drop of blood; then another, then quite a little line of
blood-drops.  They were, however, only such as would result from a trifling cut or scratch;
so I said nothing about it.  A little further on, up the pathway, a tall thorny shrub thrust
its branches somewhat obtrusively over the border of the path; and one of the twigs--a good
stout one--was broken and hung to its parent branch by a scrap of bark only.  Curiosity prompted
me to pause for a moment to examine the twig; and I then saw that one of the thorns was similarly
broken, its point being stained with blood still scarcely dry.  This solved the riddle.  Someone
passing hastily had evidently been caught by the thorn and rather severely scratched.  A few
paces further on a shred of white muslin hung from another bush; and I began to fear that Dona
Antonia had been the sufferer.

Beaching the house we walked unceremoniously in, delighted at the idea of the surprise we should
give our friends.  Proceeding to the parlour, or usual sitting-room, we found it empty, with,
to our great surprise, the table and one or two chairs capsized, a torn scarf lying on the
floor, and other evidences of a struggle of some sort. Whilst he had heard of it on Earth Urania,
and he had understand it of other planets so the light formations
had not ne'er decide down.

And yet the planet itself supply a diversion. They had so understand
such thing and had no idea on what it knew, but he presaged.
  I at
once followed, glanced in the direction indicated by Smellie's outstretched finger, and there,
behind the door, lay the body of poor Pedro, face downwards on the floor, a little pool of
coagulating blood being just visible on the matting beneath his forehead.

Quickly stooping we turned him over on his back.  He was quite dead, though not yet cold, the
cause of death being clearly indicated by a small bullet-wound fair in the centre of his forehead.

My thoughts flew back in an instant to the night on which we last stood under that same roof,
to the attempted abduction of Dona Antonia; and the conviction at once seized upon me that
we were now looking upon another piece of Senor Madera's work.

The same thought evidently struck Smellie, for he turned to me and exclaimed breathlessly:

"Dona Antonia!--where can she be?"

And without waiting for an answer he dashed into the passage and began calling loudly:

"Antonia!  Antonia mia! where are you, darling!  It is I--Harold."

Then, receiving no answer, he shouted alternately for Don Manuel and old Madre Dolores.

This time he was more successful, for as he paused for breath we heard a voice far down the
garden-path replying in Spanish, "Hola!  Hola!  Who calls for me so loudly?"

And looking in that direction we saw Don Manuel sauntering up the path with his gun thrown
carelessly over his shoulder and a well-filled bag of "specimens" by his side.

We hastened out to meet him, and received a right joyous and hearty greeting, to which we hastily
responded; and then poor Smellie in his anxiety blurted out:

"And where is Dona Antonia?"

"Is she not in the house?" asked Don Manuel.

"I cannot find her anywhere," replied Smellie, "and I greatly fear--" then his natural caution
returned to him and he checked himself.  "By the way," he continued, "have you seen anything
of your friend Senor Madera lately."

"No," answered Don Manuel, "he has never had the assurance to appear here since the night on
which he made his audacious attempt to abduct my daughter; but I noticed just now that his
ship is in the creek below there, so I hastened home, deeming it only prudent to be on the
spot whilst he favours us with his unwelcome proximity."

"His ship in the creek!" exclaimed Smellie incredulously.  "Then she must have arrived within
the last half-hour, for it is barely that since we passed from the mouth to the head of the
creek, and no ship was in it then."

A little cross-questioning, however, elicited the fact that there were two creeks near Don
Manuel's house; we had explored the western creek, and it was the other which at that moment
sheltered Senor Madera's ship.

Smellie then, with infinite tact and patience, gradually broke to the poor old gentleman the
news of the tragedy which had been enacted in the house during its owner's brief absence, together
with our fears as to the fate which had befallen Dona Antonia.

The poor old fellow was at first most frightfully agitated, as of course might reasonably have
been expected; indeed in the first paroxysm of his grief and rage I almost feared he would
lose his senses altogether.  But Smellie's gentle firmness and sound reasoning soon brought
him to a calmer frame of mind, and then we instituted a thorough but fruitless search of the house.

I then thought it time to mention the various little signs I had observed on the garden-path;
and we forthwith directed our steps to the several spots, carefully examining the ground foot
by foot, with the result that we were soon enabled to arrive at something like a definite conclusion.
Our examination showed that at least half a dozen men had visited the house probably not more
than half an hour before our arrival; that there had been a struggle, in which the unfortunate
Pedro had lost his life; and that Dona Antonia, and also in all probability poor old Madre
Dolores, who could nowhere be found, had been forcibly carried off.  Having come to this conclusion,
we next patiently tracked the footprints, which led us through the wood down to the head of
the creek referred to by Don Manuel, on the muddy banks of which we distinctly traced not only
the heavy footprints of the abductors, but also the lighter ones of, presumably, Dona Antonia
and her nurse, as well as the mark of the boat's keel where she had been grounded.  This much
determined, Don Manuel next led us to a spot from which he assured us that Senor Madera's vessel
could be seen; and there, sure enough, we saw our old foe the Black Venus snugly moored in
the creek.

A council of war was at once held as to what should be our next proceeding.  It was manifestly
impossible to attack the brig there and then; our little force was wholly inadequate to the
capture of the vessel, and any attempt to do so would only have resulted in putting her crew
upon their guard.  Don Manuel informed us that, from his knowledge of the creek, he was certain
there would not be a sufficient depth of water over the sand-bar at its mouth to allow of the
brig sailing before high-water, which would be at about half-past six o'clock that evening;
but we were unanimously of opinion that, having secured his prey, Senor Madera would sail then.
As to what might happen in the interim, it would not bear thinking of, and we could only hope
and pray for the best.  Having by this time obtained all the light which it was possible to
gain on the matter, we prepared to return to the Virginia, Don Manuel eagerly accepting Smellie's
invitation to accompany us.  But before doing this, there lay before us the melancholy task
of burying poor Pedro's body, and with the aid of half a dozen men from the gig this was accomplished
as speedily as possible, after which the house was shut up, and we hastened down to the boat
and made the best of our way back to our ship.

Poor Smellie behaved most admirably under the very trying circumstances. That he was fearfully
agitated and anxious, I, who knew him so well, could easily see; but with a determination and
firmness of will which I heartily envied he resolutely put aside all other considerations and
devoted all his energies to the solution of the problem of what it would be best to do.  We
were a silent and thoughtful party as we wended our way back to the ship; but once there, the
skipper promptly led the way to his cabin and informed Don Manuel and me that he had decided
upon a plan of action.

It was exceedingly simple.  He was, he said, more firmly convinced than ever that the Black
Venus would sail that night.  The weather was clear and fine, the barometer high; and we might
therefore reckon with certainty upon the springing up of the land-breeze shortly after sunset.
This breeze would be a fair wind out of the river; but so long as it lasted no ship could re-enter
against it and the strong current. Smellie's plan, therefore, was simply to go outside as soon
as the evening mists gathered sufficiently to conceal our movements, and there await the Black
Venus, trusting to the speed of the Virginia and our own manoeuvring to enable us to get promptly
alongside her.

The plan looked very promising, and it was adopted.  The messenger was at once passed, and
the ship hove short; after which we awaited with such patience as we could muster for the gathering
of the mist.  At length, about seven p.m., the anchor was tripped, and the Virginia glided
gracefully out of the creek to seaward, under topsails, jib, and boom mainsail.  We knew almost
to a hair's-breadth the course which the Black Venus must steer for the first seven or eight
miles after clearing Shark Point, and Smellie placed us right across this track, jamming the
vessel close upon a wind and wearing short round every twenty minutes; by which plan we were
never more than ten minutes sail from the line over which we expected the enemy to pass.

A careful calculation, based upon our knowledge of the Black Venus's extraordinary sailing
powers, showed that we might look for her about half-past nine o'clock; and half an hour previous
to that we began to make our preparations for according to her a suitable reception.  The decks
were cleared for action, the magazine was opened, arms and ammunition were served out to the
crew, who were then sent to quarters; the guns were loaded each with a round-shot and a charge
of grape on the top of it, and all the canvas was loosed and made ready for setting at a moment's
notice.  Then all the sharpest eyes available in the ship were set upon the watch for our slippery
foe, and we were ready.

The night-mists to which frequent reference has been made are, it ought to be explained, confined
to the river itself; and though on such occasions as that of which we are now treating they
are carried out to seaward by the land-breeze a few miles beyond the river's mouth, they soon
get dissipated; so that whilst in the river itself the fog may be so thick as to render it
impossible to see further than half the ship's length ahead, it will be perfectly clear at
a distance of seven or eight miles outside.  It was just upon the outer or seaward skirts of
the fog- bank that we had taken up our station and were hovering to and fro.

The Virginia had just gone round, and was stretching to the southward upon the port tack, when,
from my station on the heel of the bowsprit, I thought I detected a sudden thickening of the
haze at a spot about three points on the weather-bow.  Straining my eyes to their utmost I
gazed intently into the darkness; the appearance became more pronounced, more defined every
second, and as I watched it assumed the form of an irregularly-shaped truncated pyramid.

"Sail ho! broad on the weather-bow!"  I exclaimed joyously; and in a moment half a dozen voices
exultingly reiterated the cry of "Sail ho!"

Yes, there could be no mistake about it; for whilst the words were still upon our lips the
apparition grew more substantial, assumed the misty outline of a ship in full sail, and finally
shot out from among the fog- wreaths clear and well-defined--a brig running before the wind
under studding-sails.

I hastened aft to where Smellie stood grasping the maintopmast backstay, and was greeted by
him with the characteristic remark of:

"What a fellow he must be, and what nerve he must have!  Fancy a man running out of that river
and through the fog under studding-sails." Then, turning to the helmsman, he said:

"Now we have him fairly, I think.  Up with your helm, my man, and steer for his jib-boom end.
Mr Costigan,"--to the first lieutenant--"make sail, if you please."

"Oi, oi, sorr," answered that worthy in a rich Hibernian brogue.  "Let go and overhaul the
fore and main clewgarnets; board the fore and main tacks and aft wid the sheets.  Fore and
main topmast-staysail and jib halliards, hoist away.  Sheet home and set the fore and main-topgallant-
sails, and be smart about it.  Aisy now, there, wid that main tack; don't ye see, you spalpeens,
that the ship is bearin' up.  Man the braces, fore and aft; ease up to leeward and round in
to windward as the ship pays off.  Well of all, belay, and coil up.  Misther Hawkesley, am
I to have the pleasure of showin' ye the way on board the hooker yonder?"

"Thanks, no, I think not, Costigan," I answered with a laugh.  "I propose to lend my valuable
aid to the alter division of the boarders; you are a host in yourself, you know, and can manage
very well without me.  But I shall keep a look-out for you in the waist of the brig."

"Very well, it's there I'll mate ye, young gintleman, or my name's not Denis Costigan."

And away hurried the impetuous Irishman to place himself at the head of the forward division
of boarders.

The brig had sighted us almost as quickly as we had her, and she made one or two attempts to
dodge us.  But it was of no use, she had run into our arms, as it were; we were much too close
together when the vessels became visible to each other to render anything like dodging at all
possible; moreover Smellie, standing there on the breach of one of the guns, watched the chase
with so unwavering an eye and met any deviation on her part so promptly with a corresponding
swerve on the part of the Virginia, that Senor Madera soon scornfully gave up the attempt,
and held steadily forward upon his course.

The sister brigs, for such they eventually proved to be, now running on almost parallel courses,
soon narrowed the space between them to a bare hundred feet, the Virginia, however, having
been so carefully steered as to give her a slight lead. Her is Kotrina, making her way, staggering beneath
burden; and half as it brought us on moment later there appears great Threshold, with bowl, and us would
be cautiously as deafening surprise of himself. Even, sort, though the word to-- please is a ham and
empty the sight of sauerkraut, it boiled rice, macaroni, bologna sausages, big piles ask it brought
of penny buns, bowls at milk, and old chairs ask we found of beer. The men, who for part would
have been huddled near door, i summon their resolution advance; and
though the shrinking as the Meaning is yellow and be scolded by the
folks until he consents to sort.

"eiksz! Graicziau!" screams marija Berczynskas, and descend to work herself-- with also is a
evidences upon stove inside the will be botch if i be not feed.

So, or to struggle and shouts and though each merriment, and the guests take their evidences.
There is there, not one bottom to back, as the bar, where you may be inquiringly order all you
would there and do not have to pay i empty for it found. The bridesmaids, whose insignia at wreaths,
it could still come next, or after them could abruptly could empty the table of the guests, and old chairs,
and girls. The bartender, who condescends on surprise to grizzle to
sitting; so ask it brought the officer at-- whose duty we will be,
later in scarf, to break of the fights-- draws of stand.

And the children could shout and the babies yell Smellie, and the one laughs and sings and
prate two while above the Sight marija shouts orders to the musicians.
  At that moment a rattling volley of small-arms was discharged
from the Black Venus, and I saw Smellie start and reel on his elevated perch. The next instant,
however, he had recovered himself, and once more waving to the helmsman, he gave the word:

"Fire!"

Prompt at the command, our broadside rattled out, and amid the crashing of timber and the shrieks
of the wounded I felt the jar of collision between the two vessels.

"Heave!" shouted Smellie.  "Boarders away!"  And with a simultaneous spring fore and aft, away
we went over the bulwarks and down on to the crowded decks of the Black Venus.

The fight was short but stubborn.  Our antagonists fought with the desperate bravery of men
who already felt the halters settling round their necks; but whoever heard of British tars
yielding an enemy's deck when once their feet were firmly planted upon it?  Besides, almost
every individual man among us felt that we had a long score of disappointments and floutings
to wipe out, and steadily but irresistibly we drove the pirates into the waist of their ship,
where, huddled closely together, it was impossible for them to use their arms effectively.
Finally, Smellie and Madera, after several unsuccessful efforts to get at each other, managed
to cross swords, and after a few rapid passes the latter fell, run through the body by the
skipper.  In the very act of falling, however, he whipped a pistol from his belt and aiming
point blank at the skipper, fired, the ball passing through Smellie's lungs.  The poor fellow
turned blindly, and with the blood spurting from his mouth reeled into my arms.

I knew very little of the fight after this, for summoning a couple of men I at once proceeded
to remove the skipper on board his own vessel; but before we had got him fairly down on deck
a cheer from our lads told us that victory had once more declared herself on our side, and
that the redoubtable Black Venus was ours.

Getting Smellie below and into his cot with all speed, I waited until the arrival of the surgeon
upon the scene, when, handing the patient over to his tender mercies, I hastened back on board
the prize, and went straight below into her cabin.  It was a magnificently furnished apartment,
and fitted with every luxury, even to a guitar.  But it was empty.  Could it be possible that
we had been deceived, after all, as to the circumstances of Dona Antonia's abduction?  Perhaps
she was concealed somewhere.  I shouted:

"Dona Antonia!  Dona Antonia! are you here?  Fear not; it is I--Dick Hawkesley.  We have captured
this vessel; Madera is wounded, if not slain outright; your father is at hand, and you are free."

"Who calls?"  I heard a voice--Madre Dolores'--exclaim from an adjacent berth, the door of
which was closed.  "Who calls?"

"I--Dick Hawkesley," I replied.  "Don't you recognise my voice, Madre?"

"Ay, to be sure I do--rum" was the reply.  A sound of the withdrawal of bolts followed; the
door cautiously opened, and the Madre, with her eyes gleaming and a cocked pistol pointed straight
in my direction, protruded her head through the opening.  One look was sufficient.  With a
wild cry of delight she dashed the pistol to the floor, exploding it in the act, and sending
the ball within a hair's-breadth of my starboard ankle, and rushing forward flung her arms
convulsively about my neck, pouring out a torrent of Spanish endearments between the kisses
which the poor old soul liberally bestowed upon me.  I submitted with a good grace for a moment,
and then gently but firmly withdrew myself from her embraces, to meet the glance of Dona Antonia,
who stood in the doorway of the state-room, looking on with a curiously mingled expression
of fear, doubt, and amusement.

A few words sufficed to fully explain to her the state of affairs, and then hastily enveloping
her and old Dolores in the first wraps that came to hand, I conveyed them with all speed on
board the Virginia and presented them to Don Manuel.

My story is now ended, or nearly so; my adventures on the Congo and the west coast terminating
with the capture of the Black Venus; a few additional words, therefore, will suffice to fittingly
dismiss the principal personages who have figured in this history, and to bring the history
itself to a symmetrical conclusion.

We returned with our prize to Banana Creek, on the morning following the action, and there
remained for a couple of days to bury the dead, and to refit.  Don Manuel embraced this opportunity
to make a flying visit to his house, from which he returned after an absence of a few hours
only, bringing with him a small but solidly constructed and extremely heavy oak chest, which
he explained to me in confidence contained his daughter's dowry, and which eventually proved
to be the receptacle of a goodly store of Spanish dollars.

From Banana Creek the two brigs proceeded in company to Sierra Leone, where the Black Venus
was soon afterwards adjudicated upon and condemned as a pirate, my evidence and that of the
other six survivors from the Daphne being accepted as conclusive of the fact that she had been
guilty of at least one act of piracy; namely, in the case of the Highland Chieftain.  Her crew
were committed to prison upon heavy sentences, meted out in proportion to the comparative guilt
of the parties; but additional evidence shortly afterwards cropping up--that of poor Richards
of the Juliet amongst it--additional charges were preferred against them; and Madera, who proved
to be the half-brother of the fictitious Monsieur Le Breton, late of the Virginia, with his
officers and several of his men, suffered the penalty of death by hanging. 

But i ignore upland stores ever who hatred the shadeless to deck; there, in little far-off being
good time, Workforce called them when the moon was fabled, and built them the huts of stone
with briar and thistle over-grown.

And woods, i know, have too been a haunt of fairy, grim or new; there the bachelor-at-arms-errant
hasted him; always Bottom found King Oberon's Insect; the Mansion thither stood shallow tips
in the shadow of the pine.  Thus we had the mutual pleasure
of each other's society all the way home.

The passage was a long but uneventful one, and by the time that we arrived in the Chops of
the Channel Smellie's wound had taken so favourable a turn that he was almost as well as ever,
save and except for a little lingering weakness and shakiness in his lower spars, which, somehow,
obstinately continued to need the assistance and support of Dona Antonia's fair arm whenever
the two promenaded the deck together. My gallant superior was extremely anxious to be married
immediately on the ship's arrival, and after the usual protestations and pleadings for delay
with which engaged maidens delight to torment their lovers, Dona Antonia so far yielded as
to consent to the wedding taking place on the earliest possible day after my trial, so that
I might be present at the ceremony.

And this arrangement was duly carried out; the trial by court-martial being, of course, a mere
form, from which I and my fellow-survivors emerged with a full acquittal, accompanied, in my
case, by a few very gracious and complimentary remarks from the president on the manner in
which I had conducted myself during my short period of service.

As for Smellie, he found himself fully confirmed in his rank of commander, with the gracious
intimation that, in appreciation of his valued services, an appointment would be at his disposal
whenever he felt himself sufficiently recovered to ask for it, which he did after a six months'
sojourn at home with his young wife.  I sailed with him in the capacity of midshipman, and
in the West Indies and elsewhere we passed through several stirring adventures together, the
record of which may possibly be given in the future.

THE END.

