The Keble Cross--Otterbourne Churchyard: p0.jpg}

{Picture from title page: p1.jpg}

Old Times at Otterbourne.

BY CHARLOTTE M. YONGE.

[SECOND EDITION.]

Winchester: WARREN AND SON, PRINTERS AND PUBLISHERS, HIGH STREET.

London: SIMPKIN AND CO., LIMITED, STATIONERS' HALL COURT. 1891

Old Times at Otterbourne.

Not many of us remember Otterbourne before the Railroad, the Church, or the Penny Post.  It
may be pleasant to some of us to try to catch a few recollections before all those who can
tell us anything about those times are quite gone. 

Major General continued, D. José del Valle, the marches, as he had thought to enter the jurisdiction
of the Viceroyalty of Buenos Aires: the approach to the Pampa de Quesque, and spent the night,
were seen as 100 rebels, who had the audacity to fire at the vanguard of the army, with only
three rifles, accompanied by repeated this hostility and broken cries, in saying to our people
who were not so cowardly as those of Ink province, who had just overcome, and then it was
very different esperimentarian the equilibrium and the constancy of the Indians of the Collao. When
they had to find our army climbed to the top of a very high mountain covered with snow, where would
all the Retiro cattle. Appointed General Commander Don Anthony Calf, Sergeant Major of the
regiment Cuzco, with 80 riflemen to go up to punish his audacity: what this officer egecutó
bizarrely, killing twelve rebels, and removing some horses and sheep that much led the field, and
soon after it was revealed by four prisoners, townspeople Santa Rosa were the most affectionate
partial distinguished the glories of Tupac-Amaru, and who had accompanied him in his most arduous
undertaking, which determined the general punishment, and this attempt is launched to the people.
He entered the army without resistance and encircling the main square suddenly, took off all who were
there to would suffer the death penalty, the punishment of which occurred in 20, having come about
by just provindencia All-Mighty that falls the luck in the most famous captains and immediate
dependents the rebel, as verified later by those who remained alive. But, however that this decision
was as faithful in that village residents will never be approved similar procedure, but has been
supported by the benefits that resulted from having joined the army, and suffered persecution
and perseverance extraordinary subsidies which have made them rebels continued.

The army continued Orurillo village, where some elderly, and found only a few wives, and asked
his deputy cure, D. Juan Bautista Moran, which was the reason why
those neighbors had left their home espresso had not reached their
entreaties and persuasions, to convince them to wait quietly to the
arrival of the troops of the King, they were committed with the greatest
obstinacy in refusing obedience, and follow the flags seditious of
rebellion-a procedure that forced the Commanding General to ensure
the capture of a few: and having succeeded in making two prisoners
were passed immediately by the arms and published that would be punished
after that town and its neighbors to the full extent of the war, once
stubbornly wanted to secede from the due obedience to his rightful
owner.

Providence, understood by some who were present, they also observed Christian shows that a few
individuals of the army, had the effect of them to go in search of their relatives and friends,
and persuade him to submit submissive, as indeed did so, and in a short time they were coming in packs,
eager to provide the imagination of obedience to the king, vowing henceforth be faithful vassals.
  He and
his sons could ride through down and heath all the way to their hunting.  We all know how William
Rufus was brought back from his last hunt, lying dead in the charcoal burner Purkis's cart,
in which he was carried to his grave in Winchester Cathedral. The general, watching, Pinedo said:

- Look at the Duke, which has been encouraged. Of fixed he is making love to Pepa.
- No - seriously answered the employee -. What we're making love
now is the business of river mines.

Silkstede is a farm now--it was most likely a grange, or outlying house belonging to some monastery--and
there is a remnant of the gardens and some fine trees, and a hollow called China Dell, where
snowdrops and double daffodils grow. Although not used to counteract
the motion adopted by his brother, it was easy to guess that the condemned in the internal forum
who was out of place in the hotel de Osorio. It had become reflective and moody. His gaze, when
posed in Raymond, was deep and melancholy, as if he feared a catastrophe. Clementina entertained as
he could, but could not enter his heart. Al through the girl smiles, his modesty and shame,
I thought observe a feeling of hostility often disconcerting.

Osorio's wife was still displaying the same pomp, spreading money widely in spite of the impending
ruin of her husband, who had so alarmed Pepa Frias. This debris had not exploded as expected.
The banker managed to avert skills, making understand the values ​​they had in their hands,
which suddenly Nothing would be thrown about it, they do not save or twenty-five percent of the capital.
However, if waiting recover the whole and its revenue. His wife was going to inherit a huge fortune
in brief term. Creditors entered reason, kept secret about the state of its business: Clementina
only required to sign, together with her husband, notes renewed. Shortly then favored a bit lucky
in the stock market could Osorio and flapping as before, although under the suspicious gaze
of the men of money, which unanimously predicted bankruptcy sooner or later. His wife, looking
in safety, she did not think of these troublesome issues. Only when he went home to his father
and saw his face pale and haggard Ms Carmen felt his heart agitated by a strange feeling that
she fled to define, rushing to drown the sound of kissing and loving little words.
  But this is as much as you will wish to hear of these old
customs, which prove that the Norman feudal system was kept out of this Episcopal manor.  It
was not even mentioned in Domesday Book, near as it was to Winchester.  There it lay, peacefully
on its island of chalk down, shut in by the well-preserved trees, till Stephen's brother, Bishop
Henry de Blois, of Winchester, bethought him of turning the old Roman Camp into a fortified
castle. The world disappeared for Esperanza. A delicious and vague feeling
of happiness and freedom, like a bird that would fly if it was provided soul, into his heart
and filled him with joy. It was also the first time that Pepe Castro squeezed his waist. He
felt himself seized by him in the whirlwind of couples and thought alone. She and him!, And
music caressing their ears and hearts, playing sweetly ineffable impressions that beat in the
depths of his soul. By resting a moments, his face was so intense this divine feeling of first
love her aunt Clementina, across from the arm of the president of Congress, could not but smile
him a look half tender, half mocking that was red. Pepe Castro struggled to get the words in the
body. That night, the excess of emotion was half-mute. The joy that overwhelms his soul was
reflected, as nearly always happens, in a sense benevolence toward the whole world. The dance
seemed charming. All men were funny. All women were beautifully dressed. Even Ramon, who happened to
go ahead, could get some drops of the dew benefactor.

- Do not dance you, Ramon? - Asked with a smile so kind, that the
illustrious council felt faint with happiness.

- I was entertaining
the Earl of Cotorraso so far.

- For couples looking for .... Look:
there is Rosa Pallarés not dance.

The future leader was quick to invite her, thinking characteristic
penetration Esperanza gave the couple because it was pretty ugly.

Rocked in this pleasant and sweet thoughts spent a happy time dancing
with the general's daughter Pallares, "one of our most beautiful cod"

Cobo saying Ramírez. Believed to be complying with a mandate of his beloved, giving a testimony
indisputable that his jealousy, if felt, were unfounded.

When the waltz ended, came as a medieval knight coming out of the tournament, to receive the award from
the hands of his lady.

But as there is no complete happiness in this world, as time he approached the girl Cobo Ramirez.
They sat beside him and plied with compliments and attention. Asked one fan, the other handkerchief.
The two sought draw your attention getting fun conversation, flattering their pride for all
means they could.

On either side of the tower, cutting the embankment across therefore at right angles, was a
little ditch spanned by a drawbridge, which, if the defenders found it necessary to retire
to the tower, could at any time be raised.  The foundations of the tower and the position of
the ditch can still be distinctly traced.

Supposing farther that it became impossible to hold the tower, the besieged could retreat into
the main body of the Castle by another drawbridge across the great ditch.  This would lead
them through the arch which can still be seen in the ruin, though it is partially blocked up.
The room on the east side of this passage was probably a guard room.

These are all the remains.  The embankments to the south and west command a great extent of
country, and on the north and northwest, we trace the precautions by the great depth of the
ditch, and steepness of the earthworks, though now overgrown with trees.  All this must have
been done between the years 1138 and 1154, and great part of the defences were thrown down
in the lifetime of the founder.  Merdon was not destined to shine in sieges, in spite of its
strength.  Henry II came in, and forbad the multiplication of castles and Merdon seems to have
been dismantled as quickly as it had been built.

The Bishops of Winchester however still seem to have resided there from time to time, though
it gradually fell into decay, and was ruinous by the end of the Plantagenet period. 

These repeated victories all the needs and situation of the army grew obstacles, and increased
escaseses; in such a way that considered and D. Joseph's Valley in a critical and sensitive
situation, determined to make his way vary from route to Ink, where he was the rebel headquarters
and parts of war: and down for this achievement a valley situated between high mountains,
found a mild temperament, and such abundance food, which his troops succeeded in a few days to
recover their past losses, and continue gears comfortably: either with many difficulties to overcome,
and the narrow steps, such as by large and deep cuts that the enemy failed to defend, or less
advantage of these and countless other benefits that those providing rough land, which in many
places, nature has become inaccessible. Stubborn yet made resistance in some places and less severe
rookeries, pursuing daily, right and left the road, the gears of our military, particularly in the
gorges, without neglecting to take advantage of the darkness of the night to surround the camps and
fatiguing, forcing the troops to be continually under arms, feeling the fire of musketry and
cannon, which easily transportable and bet on all sides, being of small weight and small caliber.

Always
tolerate the insults of the rebels, and repeated threats to surprise the army, arrived at the outskirts
of the village of Quiquijana, after suffering all the way some fire of his artillery and musketry.
Those neighbors had been the most tenacious in promotion and support
of the sedition, trusting no doubt in the advantageous position occupied;
of So, recognized by the Commanding General, D. José del Valle, has
estimated that to reduce was necessary to spend many days, and that
would not get but at the expense of much blood, no Despite the incompetence
of the rebels, the espugnacion graduating from that position, can
two months to stop an embattled army, and many, if he had been occupied
and defended enemy otherwise.

But taken over all, decided to camp in the vicinity, and from was then greeted with the fire of artillery
and musketry, which caused no effect, for be stationed too far. At dawn the next day, the priest's
own people gave notice that the rebels had abandoned the plan to meet the Army their principal
Chief, José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, who was in ink, having cut before the bridge to delay the
continuation of all terms of the march to our troops and also prevent them pursue and pulverized
the back. This notice went into the army Quiquijana del Rey, where they had just left the
women and men, who by his old ailments or had not been able to follow others. All are welcomed
to the temple asylum in where, with many tears and signs of repentance, asking forgiveness of their
lives and the pardon of their homes and farms, that were not delivered to the flames, as they
deserved. All were granted, and only experienced the harshness of punishment, Luis Poma, Inca,
a cousin of usurper Joseph Gabriel, Bernardo Zegarra and confidante, who paid with life on
the gallows their heinous crimes.

More accurate view of the provisions in the town of Quiquijana for safety and grooming, our
army marches continued without intermission of days, and upon reaching the first camp presented
the enemy occupying the next mountain, whose absence had placed a cannon, and prevented the summits
many large and heavy stones, to which they give the name of gauges, to throw and precipitous
to offend our own in a very narrow inevitable gorge, adjacent to a river flowing, who had to
wade precisely. To avoid the danger is named 100 Rifles light troops with all the Indian allies
Chincheros Anta, who was given the order to evict the rebels from three positions very advantageous
that occupied the crest of the mountain where they were housed, whose attack courageously undertaken,
and were fortunate not only to achieve the intent, but also defeat
it entirely, to view the rest of the troops they expected the success
of the event.

The next day it was reported by a deserter from the enemy, who had placed a battery at the foot
of another mountain, the road which was to immediately follow our army, and that 10.000 defended
combatants.
  Bishop Wykeham's College at Oxford is still called
New College, though there are now many much newer.  One small estate at Otterbourne was given
by him to help to endow Winchester College, to which it still belongs.

Good men had come to think that founding colleges was the very best thing they could do for
the benefit of the Church, and William of Waynflete, who was made Bishop of Winchester in 1447,
founded another college at Oxford in honour of St. Mary Magdalen.  To this College he gave
large estates for its maintenance, and in especial a very large portion of our long, narrow
parish of Otterbourne. It was his store and his desk on the streets of San Felipe Neri, as is its father had
left, this is very poor in appearance and even dark and dirty. At the local, where the light was
filtered with a job through dusty glass shielded by rough iron bars, where the smell of tanned
leather came to cause nausea, the old Calderon had been piling up with regular mechanical hard
drive on, ounce on ounce, to form some one million cells. His son Julian nothing had changed.
Despite be one of the richest bankers in Madrid, had refused without fur store, and that this
trade, compared with letters and public purposes that the house had out, soon he represented. Calderon
was a different type of Salabert banker. Had a temperament essentially conservative, timid
to a fault for business, preferring Always small for big gains when it is achieved at risk.
Enough intelligence limited, cautious, hesitant, thorough. Any new company seemed crazy. When fail
to see a partner in some, smiled mischievously and gave himself Rejoice for the great talent he was
gifted. If surrendered gains, shaking his head muttering with relentless pessimism: "The fry
will laugh." Economic, rather greedy, to a degree scandal at home.
  The foreigners who meddled so much with our Church
in the latter years of Edward VI obtained that the Holy Communion should not be celebrated
in the chancels, but that the Holy Table should be spread in the body of the Church, and many
Chancels were thus disused and became ruinous, as ours most certainly did at some time or other. The priest of the village, continuing wrong doctrine, received from D. Jacinto Rodriguez
a bar of silver, whose value amounted to about 2,000 pesos, and a gold mancerina he sent the
stolen, that held the vote to the Europeans killed in the tumult, content to bury them all
together in a hole, and apply some mass. None of these or other ecclesiastical superiors made
the slightest demonstration to prevent the Indians broke into the churches, all consented
to it, possessed of fear, and so tired sore, was to see that after the churches polluted,
it can host the holy and tremendous sacrifice of the Mass, the priest buried in the place that
was violated, The bodies of the residents who died of disease.
  So Philip
thought some warning of treachery was meant, and halted in great doubt and difficulty till
the messenger recollected his French, and said in that tongue, that the Queen was only afraid
of his Grace's getting wet. 

With this new beat immediately sent General stores, to transport all the army to the town of
Tinta, where he found the portrait of the slope of the main rebel gallows, without finding out
the author of that action. Whose circumstances, thought out by the
Viceroy of Buenos Aires, was forced to send a company of infantry regiment of Savoy, to occupy
the city of Jujuy, as important for the accuracy of travel by him to the inland provinces of the
viceroyalty.

Thomas Sternhold, who together with Hopkins put the Psalms into metre for singing, lived in
the outskirts of Hursley.

