Having decided to stay in Canada Montcalm did all he could to come to terms with Vaudreuil,
so that the French might meet with a united front the terrible dangers of the next campaign.
He spoke straight out in a letter written to Vaudreuil on August 2, less than a month after
his victory at Ticonderoga: 'I think the real trouble lies with the people who compose your
letters, and with the mischief-makers who are trying to set you against me. You may be sure
that none of the things which are being done against me will ever lessen my zeal for the good
of the country or my respect towards you, the governor. Why not change your secretary's style?
Why not give me more of your confidence? I take the liberty of saying that the king's service
would gain by it, and we should no longer appear so disunited that even the British know all
about it. I enclose a newspaper printed in New York which mentions it. False reports are made
to you. Efforts are made to embitter you against me. I think you need not suspect my military
conduct, when I am really doing all I can. After my three years of command under your orders
what need is there for your secretary to tell me about the smallest trifles and give me petty
orders that I should myself blush to give to a junior captain?'

When Montcalm wrote this he had not yet heard the bad news from Louisbourg and the Ohio, and
he was still anxious to be recalled to France. Vaudreuil, of course, was delighted at the prospect
of getting rid of him: 'I beseech you,' he wrote home to France, 'to ask the king to recall
the Marquis of Montcalm. He desires it himself. The king has confided Canada to my own care,
and I cannot help thinking that it would be a very bad thing for the marquis to remain here
any longer!' There spoke the owl. And here the lion, when the bad news came: 'I had asked for
my recall after Ticonderoga. But since the affairs of Canada are getting worse, it is my duty
to help in setting them right again, or at least to stave off ruin so long as I can.'

Vaudreuil and Montcalm met and talked matters over. Even the governor began to see that the
end was near, unless France should send out help in the spring of 1759. He was so scared at
the idea of losing his governorship in such an event that he actually agreed with Montcalm
to send two honest and capable men to France to tell the king and his ministers the truth.
Two officers, Bougainville and Doreil, were chosen. They sailed in November with letters from
both Montcalm and Vaudreuil. Nothing could have been better or truer than the letters Vaudreuil
gave them to present at court. 'Colonel Bougainville is, in all respects, better fitted than
anybody else to inform you of the state of the colony. I have given him my orders, and you
can trust entirely in everything he tells you.' 'M. Doreil, the commissary of war, may be entirely
trusted. Everybody likes him here.' But, by the same ship, the same Vaudreuil wrote a secret
letter against these officers and against Montcalm. 'In order to condescend to the Marquis
of Montcalm and do all I can to keep on good terms with him I have given letters to Colonel
Bougainville and M. Doreil. But I must tell you that they do not really know Canada well, and
I warn you that they are nothing but creatures of the Marquis of Montcalm.'

The winter of 1758-59 was like the two before it, only very much worse. The three might be
described, in so many words, as bad, worse, and worst of all. Doreil had seen the stores and
provisions of the army plundered by the Bigot gang, the soldiers half starved, the supposed
presents for the Indians sold to them at the highest possible price, and the forts badly built
of bad materials by bad engineers, who made a Bigot-gang profit out of their work. A report
was also going home from a French inspector who had been sent out to see why the cost of government
had been rising by leaps and bounds. Things were cheap in those days, and money was scarce
and went a long way. When this was the case the whole public expense of Canada for a year should
not have been more than one million dollars. But in Montcalm's first year it had already passed
two millions. In his second it had passed four. And now, in his third, it was getting very
near to eight.

Where did the money go? Just where all public money always goes when parasites govern a country.
The inspector found out that many items of cost for supplies to the different posts had a cipher
added to them. The officials told him why: 'We have to do it because the price of living has
gone up ten times over.' But how did such an increase come about? The goods were sold from
favourite to favourite, each man getting his wholly illegal profit, till the limit was reached
beyond which Bigot thought it would not be safe to go. By means of false accounts, by lying
reports and by the aid of accomplices in France who stopped letters from Montcalm and other
honest men, the game went on for two years. Now it was found out. But the gang was still too
strong in Canada to be broken up. In France it was growing weak. Another couple of years and
all its members would have been turned out by the home government. They knew this; and, seeing
that their end was coming in one way or another, they thought a British conquest could not
be much worse than a French prison; indeed, it might be better, for a complete and general
ruin might destroy proof of their own guilt. The lions would die fighting--and a good thing
too! But the owls and foxes might escape with the spoils. 'What a country, where knaves grow
rich and honest men are ruined!'

Montcalm wrote home to his family by every ship. He might not have long to do so. Just after
Ticonderoga he wrote to his wife: 'Thank God! it is all over now until the beginning of May.
We shall have desperate work in the next campaign. The enemy will have 50,000 men in the field,
all together; and we, how many? I dare not tell it. Adieu, my heart, I long for peace and you.
When shall I see my Candiac again?' On November 21, 1758, the last ship left for France. He
wrote to his old mother, to whom he had always told the story of his wars, from the time when,
thirty-one years before, as a stripling of fifteen, he had joined his father's regiment in
the very year that Wolfe was born: 'You will be glad to hear from me up to the last moment
and know, for the hundredth time, that I am always thinking of you all at home, in spite of
the fate of New France and my duty with the army and the state. We did our best these last
three years; and so, God helping us, we shall in 1759--unless you can make a peace for us in
Europe.'

The wretched winter dragged on. The French were on half rations, the Canadians worse off still.
In January Montcalm wrote in his diary: 'terrible distress round Quebec.' Then, the same day:
'balls, amusements, picnics, and tremendous gambling.' Another entry: 'in spite of the distress
and impending ruin of the colony pleasure parties are going on the whole time.' He himself
had only plain fare--horse-flesh and the soldier's half ration of bread--on his table. No wonder
the vampires hated him!

May came; but not a word from France. For eight whole months no French ship had been able to
cross the sea, to bring aid for the needy colony. Day by day the half-starved people scanned
the St Lawrence for sight of a sail. At last, on the 10th, they had their reward. A French
ship arrived; more ships followed; and by the 20th there were twenty-three in the harbour,
all laden with provisions, stores, and men. The help was inadequate. There were only 326 soldiers
for Montcalm on board, and there were not enough provisions to keep the soldiers and people
on full rations through the summer, even with the help of what crops might be harvested while
the farmers remained under arms. But Montcalm made the best of it: 'a little is precious to
those who have nothing.'

Bougainville brought out plenty of promotions and honours for the victory at Ticonderoga. Montcalm
was made lieutenant-general of the king in Canada. Bougainville told him his name was known
all over France; 'even the children use it in their games.' Old Marshal Belle Isle, a gallant
veteran, now at the head of the French army, and a great admirer of Montcalm, had sent out
the king's last orders: 'No matter how small the space may be that you can retain, you must
somehow keep a foothold in America; for, if we once lose the whole country, we shall never
get it back again. The king counts upon your zeal, your courage, and your firmness to spare
no pains and no exertion. You must hold out to the very last, whatever happens. I have answered
for you to the king.' Montcalm replied: 'I shall do everything to maintain a foothold in New
France, or die in its defence'; and he kept his word.

There was both joy and sorrow in the news from Candiac. His eldest daughter was happily married.
His eldest son was no less happily engaged. But, at the last minute, Bougainville had heard
that another daughter had died suddenly; he did not know which one. 'It must be poor Mirete,'
said Montcalm, 'I love her so much.' His last letters home show with what a brave despair he
faced the coming campaign. 'Can we hope for another miracle to save us? God's will be done!
I await news from France with impatience and dread. We had none for eight months, and who knows
if we shall have any more this year. How dearly I have to pay for the dismal privilege of figuring
in the Gazette. I would give up all my honours to see you again. But the king must be obeyed.
Adieu, my heart, I believe I love you more than ever!'

Bougainville had also brought out the news that Pitt was sending enormous forces to conquer
Canada for good and all. One army was to attack the last French posts on the Lakes. Another
was to come up Lake Champlain and take Montreal. A combined fleet and army, under Saunders
and Wolfe, was to undertake the most difficult task and to besiege Quebec. There was no time
to lose. Even Vaudreuil saw that. Pouchot was left at Niagara with 1,000 men. De la Corne had
another 1,000 on the shores of Lake Ontario. Bourlamaque held Lake Champlain with 3,000. But
the key of all Canada was Quebec; and so every man who could be spared was brought down to
defend it. Saunders and Wolfe had 27,000 men of all kinds, 9,000 soldiers and 18,000 sailors,
mostly man-of-war's-men. The total number which the French could collect to meet them was 17,000.
Of these 17,000 only 4,000 were French regulars. There were over 1,000 Canadian regulars; less
than 2,000 sailors, very few of whom were man-of-war's-men; about 10,000 Canadian militia,
and a few hundred Indians. The militia included old men and young boys, any one, in fact, who
could fire off a musket. The grand totals, all over the seat of war, were 44,000 British against
22,000 French.

Having done all he could for Niagara, Ontario, and Lake Champlain, Montcalm hurried down to
Quebec on May 22. Vaudreuil followed on the 23rd. On the same day the advance guard of the
British fleet arrived at Bic on the lower St Lawrence. From that time forward New France was
sealed up as completely as if it had shrunk to a single fort. Nothing came in and nothing went
out. The strangling coils of British sea-power were all round it. But still Montcalm stood
defiantly at bay. 'You must maintain your foothold to the very last.'--'I shall do it or die.'

His plan was to keep the British at arm's length as long as possible. The passage known as
the 'Traverse' from the north channel to the south, at the lower end of the Island of Orleans,
was a good place to begin. Strong batteries there might perhaps sink enough of the fleet to
block the way for the rest. These Montcalm was eager to build, but Vaudreuil was not. Had not
Vaudreuil's Canadian pilots prophesied that no British fleet could possibly ascend the river
in safety, even without any batteries to hinder it? And was not Vaudreuil so sure of this himself
that he had never had the Traverse properly sounded at all? He would allow no more than a couple
of useless batteries, which the first British men-of-war soon put to silence. The famous Captain
Cook, who was sailing master of a frigate on this expedition, made the necessary soundings
in three days; and the fleet of forty warships and a hundred transports went through without
a scratch.

Vaudreuil's second chance was with seven fireships, which, having been fitted out by the Bigot
gang at ten times the proper cost, were commanded by a favoured braggart called Delouche. The
night after the British fleet had arrived in the Orleans Channel, the whole French camp turned
out to watch what it was hoped would be a dramatic and effective attack on the mass of shipping
which lay at anchor near the head of the island. The fireships were sent down with the ebb-tide,
straight for the crowded British fleet. But Delouche lost his nerve, fired his ship too soon,
jumped into a boat and rowed away. Five of the others did the same. The seventh was a hero,
Dubois de la Milletiere, who stuck to his post, but was burned to death there in a vain effort
to get among the enemy. Had the six others waited longer the whole of the seven French crews
might have escaped together and some damage might have been done to the British. As it was
there was nothing but splendid fireworks for both sides. The best man on the French side was
killed for nothing; no harm was done to the British; and for equipping the fireships the Bigot
gang put another hundred thousand stolen dollars into their thievish pockets. 'What a country,
where knaves grow rich and honest men are ruined!'

Vaudreuil's third chance was to defend the shore opposite Quebec, Point Levis, which Montcalm
wished to hold as long as possible. If the French held it the British fleet could not go past
Quebec, between two fires, and Wolfe could not bombard the town from the opposite heights.
But, early in July, Vaudreuil withdrew the French troops from Point Levis, and Wolfe at once
occupied the shore and began to build his batteries. As soon as the British had made themselves
secure Vaudreuil thought it time to turn them out. But he sent only 1,500 men; and so many
of these were boys and youths at school and college that the French troops dubbed them 'The
Royal Syntax.' These precious 1,500 went up the north shore, crossed over after dark, and started
to march, in two separate columns, down the south shore towards Levis. Presently the first
column heard a noise in the woods and ran back to join the second. But the second, seeing what
it mistook for the enemy, fired into the first and ran for dear life. Then the first, making
a similar mistake, blazed into the second, and, charmed with its easy victory, started hotfoot
in pursuit. After shooting at each other a little more, just to make sure, the two lost columns
joined together again and beat a hasty retreat.

With the opposite shore lost Montcalm had now no means of keeping Wolfe at any distance. But
Montcalm had chosen his position with skill, and it was so strong by nature that it might yet
be held till the autumn, if only he was allowed to defend it in his own way. His left was protected
by the Montmorency river, narrow, but deep and rapid, with only two fords, one in thick bush,
where the British regulars would have least chance, and another at the mouth, directly under
the fire of the French left. His centre was the six miles of ground stretching towards Quebec
between the Montmorency and the little river St Charles. Here the bulk of his army was strongly
entrenched, mostly on rising ground, just beyond the shore of the great basin of the St Lawrence,
the wide oozy tidal flats of which the British would have to cross if they tried to attack
him in front. His right was Quebec itself and the heights of the north shore above.

Wolfe pitched his camp on the far side of the cliffs near the Falls of Montmorency; and one
day tried to cross the upper fords, four miles above the falls, to attack Montcalm in the rear.
But Montcalm was ready for him in the bush and beat him back.

The next British move was against the left of Montcalm's entrenchments. On July 31 Wolfe's
army was busy at an early hour; and all along the French front men-of-war were under way with
their decks cleared for action. At ten o'clock, when the tide was high, two small armed ships
were run aground opposite the French redoubt on the beach a mile from the falls; and they,
the men-of-war, and Wolfe's batteries beyond the falls, all began to fire on the redoubt and
the trenches behind it. Montcalm fired back so hard at the two armed ships that the British
had to leave them. Then he gave orders for his army to be ready to come at a moment's notice,
but to keep away from the threatened point for the present. By this means, and from the fact
that his trenches had been very cleverly made by his own French engineers, he lost very few
men, even though the British kept up a furious fire.

The British kept cannonading all day. By four o'clock one British brigade was trying to land
beside the two stranded armed ships, and the two other brigades were seen to be ready to join
it from their camp at Montmorency. The redcoats had plenty of trouble in landing; and it was
not till six that their grenadiers, a thousand strong, were forming up to lead the attack.
Suddenly there was an outburst of cheering from the British sailors. The grenadiers mistook
this for the commencement of the attack. They broke their ranks and dashed madly at the redoubt.
The garrison at once left it and ran back, up the hill, into the trenches. The grenadiers climbed
into it, pell-mell; but, as it was open towards its rear, it gave them no cover from the terrific
fire that the French, on Montcalm's signal, now poured into them. Again they made a mad charge,
this time straight at the trenches. Montcalm had called in every man there was room for, and
such a storm of bullets, grape-shot, cannon-balls, and shells now belched forth that even British
grenadiers could not face it. A thunderstorm burst, with a deluge of rain; and, amid the continued
roar of nature's and man's artillery, half the grenadiers were seen retreating, while half
remained dead or wounded on the field.

The two redcoat brigades from Montmorency had now joined the remnant of the first, which had
had such a rough experience. Montcalm kept his men well in hand to meet this more formidable
attack. But Wolfe had had enough. The first brigade went back to its boats. The second and
third brigades marched back to Montmorency along the beach in perfect order, the men waving
their hats in defiance at the French, who jumped up on top of their earthworks and waved defiance
back. Before retiring the British set fire to the two stranded ships. The day had been as disastrous
for Wolfe as glorious for Montcalm.

