BIOGRAPHICAL STORIES

This small volume and others of a similar character, from the same hand, have not been composed
without a deep sense of responsibility.  The author regards children as sacred, and would not,
for the world, cast anything into the fountain of a young heart that might imbitter and pollute
its waters.  And, even in point of the reputation to be aimed at, juvenile literature is as
well worth cultivating as any other.  The writer, if he succeed in pleasing his little readers,
may hope to be remembered by them till their own old age,--a far longer period of literary
existence than is generally attained by those who seek immortality from the judgments of full-grown
men.

CHAPTER 1.

When Edward Temple was about eight or nine years old he was afflicted with a disorder of the
eyes.  It was so severe, and his sight was naturally so delicate, that the surgeon felt some
apprehensions lest the boy should become totally blind.  He therefore gave strict directions
to keep him in a darkened chamber, with a bandage over his eyes.  Not a ray of the blessed
light of heaven could be suffered to visit the poor lad.

This was a sad thing for Edward.  It was just the same as if there were to be no more sunshine,
nor moonlight, nor glow of the cheerful fire, nor light of lamps.  A night had begun which
was to continue perhaps for months,--a longer and drearier night than that which voyagers are
compelled to endure when their ship is icebound, throughout the winter, in the Arctic Ocean.
His dear father and mother, his brother George, and the sweet face of little Emily Robinson
must all vanish and leave him in utter darkness and solitude.  Their voices and footsteps,
it is true, would be heard around him; he would feel his mother's embrace and the kind pressure
of all their hands; but still it would seem as if they were a thousand miles away.

And then his studies,--they were to be entirely given up.  This was another grievous trial;
for Edward's memory hardly went back to the period when he had not known how to read.  Many
and many a holiday had he spent at his hook, poring over its pages until the deepening twilight
confused the print and made all the letters run into long words.  Then, would he press his
hands across his eyes and wonder why they pained him so; and when the candles were lighted,
what was the reason that they burned so dimly, like the moon in a foggy night?  Poor little
fellow! So far as his eyes were concerned he was already an old man, and needed a pair of spectacles
almost as much as his own grandfather did.

And now, alas! the time was come when even grandfather's spectacles could not have assisted
Edward to read.  After a few bitter tears, which only pained his eyes the more, the poor boy
submitted to the surgeon's orders.  His eyes were bandaged, and, with his mother on one side
and his little friend Emily on the other, he was led into a darkened chamber.

"Mother, I shall be very miserable!" said Edward, sobbing.

"O no, my dear child!" replied his mother, cheerfully.  "Your eyesight was a precious gift
of Heaven, it is true; but you would do wrong to be miserable for its loss, even if there were
no hope of regaining it. There are other enjoyments besides what come to us through our eyes."

"None that are worth having," said Edward.

"Ah, but you will not think so long," rejoined Mrs. Temple, with tenderness.  "All of us--your
father, and myself, and George, and our sweet Emily--will try to find occupation and amusement
for you.  We will use all our eyes to make you happy.  Will they not be better than a single pair?"

"I will sit, by you all day long," said Emily, in her low, sweet voice, putting her hand into
that of Edward.

"And so will I, Ned," said George, his elder brother, "school time and all, if my father will
permit me."

Edward's brother George was three or four years older than himself,--a fine, hardy lad, of
a bold and ardent temper.  He was the leader of his comrades in all their enterprises and amusements.
As to his proficiency at study there was not much to be said.  He had sense and ability enough
to have made himself a scholar, but found so many pleasanter things to do that he seldom took
hold of a book with his whole heart.  So fond was George of boisterous sports and exercises
that it was really a great token of affection and sympathy when he offered to sit all day long
in a dark chamber with his poor brother Edward.

As for little Emily Robinson, she was the daughter of one of Mr. Temple's dearest friends.
Ever since her mother went to heaven (which was soon after Emily's birth) the little girl had
dwelt in the household where we now find her.  Mr. and Mrs. Temple seemed to love her as well
as their own children; for they had no daughter except Emily; nor would the boys have known
the blessing of a sister had not this gentle stranger come to teach them what it was.  If I
could show you Emily's face, with her dark hair smoothed away from her forehead, you would
be pleased with her look of simplicity and loving kindness, but might think that she was somewhat
too grave for a child of seven years old.  But you would not love her the less for that.

So brother George and this loving little girl were to be Edward's companions and playmates
while he should be kept prisoner in the dark chamber.  When the first bitterness of his grief
was over he began to feel that, there might be some comforts and enjoyments in life even for
a boy whose eyes were covered with a bandage.

"I thank you, dear mother," said he, with only a few sobs; "and you, Emily; and you too, George.
You will all be very kind to me, I know. And my father,--will not he come and see me every day?" This Don Mateo'll talk later.

Then let it be known that in such a tracery of theater represented the same dramas and comedies
that the Prince and the operas were sung at La Scala in Milan. "It seems incredible, eh? Nothing
more true.

    There he first heard the narrator of this
    story those famous verses:

If you hear tell the story of a castaway, Since the earth to the love you miss ...

Certainly that seemed excellent, and the theater a marvel of luxury and good taste. All in the
world depends on the imagination. Hopefully I had so much alive and as fresh as ever to entertain you
nicely several hours. It has also seen the Don Juan Tenorio.

And their late wheat flour-smeared, his commander filtering through a door tied with string,
his hell in spirit of wine and her apotheosis of paper lining trunks, was impressed so that
he could not sleep that night.

In the room going, more or less, as in the most magnificent theaters of the Court. However, it is
generally attended by more than they show.

We had not reached that higher level of refinement, by which actions must be pleasant contrast to the
place where they run, verbi-grace, chat in the theater laughing in the churches, go serious
and silent, and pathetic in the ride, as, fortunately, in Madrid. I do not know if Sarrió have
already climbed to the present time this step of civilization.

Neither created missing some spirits so lucid that was ahead of his time and sensed what was to be
the theater in time. Pablito Belinchón was one of them. Had always paid in the company of three or four
friends, the proscenium stage. From there spoke to other older gentlemen, subscribers in the
box opposite: they said jokes, made fun of the treble or bass, and threw candy and paper darts.
Certainly the public of the seats, still outside the refinements of civilization, used to silence
them savagely with a strong chicheo.

The most important families were accustomed to enter in those boxes hypocritical after the curtain
opened with the same solemnity that if they entered a theater audience at the Royal, and cash
with a lot more noise. Not can well imagine the horrid crack that gave him back to be pushed,
and that drop seat with the intention of attracting attention.

Say if the family currently makes her grand entrance in one of them and remains stand shedding coats,
while the spectators amused for a moment view of the scene and fix them, until they feel. They
are the lords of Belinchón. The head of the family, Don Rosendo, is a tall, thin, bent at the
spine, bald pate, small and sunken eyes, large mouth, which was contracting with a smile Mephistopheles,
showing two rows of teeth long and equal, the most complete work of some established dentist in
a few months ago Sarrió. Spend short sideburns and mustache, and represents sixty years of
age. Is known for the first merchant of the town and one of the first importers of cod from the Cantabrian
coast. For many years monopolized entirely Wholesale sales of this article, not only in the
village, but throughout the province, and thanks a result had gained a considerable fortune.
His wife, Dona Paula ... But why is just so long awake in the theater sound to your appearance?
The good lady, listen, is shaky and unclear, it fails to get rid of the coat, and his daughter
Cecilia is required to remove it and tell the ear: - Sit down, Mom! He sits, or rather, is dropped
on the bench and run a stray from the public gaze, while his cheeks
Live crimson stain.

In vain attempts fanning herself with verve and calm. Nothing: the
more efforts made by turbulent blood away from the face, put the damn
harder to hold that visible.

- Mom, what color you are! - Venturita
tells his youngest daughter, struggling not to laugh.

The boy waved the fan to and fro and drove away the buzzing flies whenever they had the impertinence
to come near the baby's face.  When they had all flown out of the window or into distant parts
of the room, he bent over the cradle and delighted himself with gazing at the sleeping infant.
It was, indeed, a very pretty sight.  The little personage in the cradle slumbered peacefully,
with its waxen hands under its chin, looking as full of blissful quiet as if angels were singing
lullabies in its ear.  Indeed, it must have been dreaming about heaven; for, while Ben stooped
over the cradle, the little baby smiled.

"How beautiful she looks!" said Ben to himself.  "What a pity it is that such a pretty smile
should not last forever!"

Now Ben, at this period of his life, had never heard of that wonderful art by which a look,
that appears and vanishes in a moment, may be made to last for hundreds of years.  But, though
nobody had told him of such an art, he may be said to have invented it for himself.  On a table
near at hand there were pens and paper, and ink of two colors, black and red. The boy seized
a pen and sheet of paper, and, kneeling down beside the cradle, began to draw a likeness of
the infant.  While he was busied in this manner he heard his mother's step approaching, and
hastily tried to conceal the paper.

"Benjamin, my son, what hast thou been doing?" inquired his mother, observing marks of confusion
in his face.

At first Ben was unwilling to tell; for he felt as if there might be something wrong in stealing
the baby's face and putting it upon a sheet of paper.  However, as his mother insisted, he
finally put the sketch into her hand, and then hung his head, expecting to be well scolded.
But when the good lady saw what was on the paper, in lines of red and black ink, she uttered
a scream of surprise and joy.

"Bless me!" cried she.  "It is a picture of little Sally!"

And then she threw her arms round our friend Benjamin, and kissed him so tenderly that he never
afterwards was afraid to show his performances to his mother.

As Ben grew older, he was observed to take vast delight in looking at the lines and forms of
nature.  For instance, he was greatly pleased with the blue violets of spring, the wild roses
of sumnmer, and the scarlet cardinal-flowers of early autumn.  In the decline of the year,
when the woods were variegated with all the colors of the rainbow, Ben seemed to desire nothing
better than to gaze at them from morn till night.  The purple and golden clouds of sunset were
a joy to him.  And he was continually endeavoring to draw the figures of trees, men, mountains,
houses, cattle, geese, ducks, and turkeys, with a piece of chalk, on barn doors or on the floor.

In these old times the Mohawk Indians were still numerous in Pennsylvania.  Every year a party
of them used to pay a visit to Springfield, because the wigwams of their ancestors had formerly
stood there.  These wild men grew fond of little Ben, and made him very happy by giving him
some of the red and yellow paint with which they were accustomed to adorn their faces.  His
mother, too, presented him with a piece of indigo.  Thus he now had three colors,--red, blue,
and yellow, --and could manufacture green by mixing the yellow with the blue.  Our friend Ben
was overjoyed, and doubtless showed his gratitude to the Indians by taking their likenesses
in the strange dresses which they wore, with feathers, tomahawks, and bows and arrows.

But all this time the young artist had no paint-brushes; nor were there any to be bought, unless
he had sent to Philadelphia on purpose. 

Roma tried to dissuade Deste purpose, saying that could happen sometimes Where necessary the company
and to undertake to defend, and that a person alone could not do large animals. But, even they
said, Andrew wanted to be a thief just and leading, with the intention to depart from the squad
for their money and buy something that could say that he had stolen, and on this so the least
I could load on his conscience. Using, then, in this industry, less than a month he brought more
advantage to the company that they brought drawn four of the robbers della; of that precious little
is idling, watching his so cute and tender lover thief so clear, but with all this, I was fearful
of any Unfortunately, he did not want her to see him in shame for all the treasures of Venice,
bound to that good will have you the many services and gifts that made him his Andrés.

Just over a month were in terms of Toledo, where they made their August, but was for the month
of September, and from there went into Extremadura, being land rich and hot. Andrew spent
with Precious honest, discreet and love conversations, and she soon little was falling in love
with the discretion and good treatment of his mistress, and he, likewise, could grow their
own love, was growing: such was the honesty, discretion and beauty His Precious. A wherever
he went, he took the money and the runner and bets jumping more than anyone, played bowling
and the ball extremely, pulling the bar very strong and unique skill, and finally, in a short
time his fame flew across Extremadura and there was no place where no one spoke of the gallant provision
of gypsy Andres Caballero and their thanks and skills, and the pair ran Desta fame of the beauty
of Gitanilla, and there was no town, no place or village where the parties are called to rejoice
votive yours, or for other special festivities. So he went on the horde rich, prosperous and happy.
Were # mind the Roma to go to Seville, # but said Preciosa's grandmother that she could not go because
the years had made a mockery in Seville to a gorrero called Triguillo, well known in it which
made him get into a vat of water to the neck, naked meat, and head a crown of cypress, awaiting the
stroke of midnight out of the barrel to dig and remove a great treasure that she had made him believe
he was some part of your home. He said he heard the good gorrero matins touch, not to lose
the situation is so hastily got out of the jar, which gave her and him on the floor, and hit and
bruised hooves meats, derramóse water, and he was swimming in it, and cried out that filling.
Came his wife and their neighbors with lights, and found him swimmer doing effects, blowing and
dragging his belly on the floor, and shaking hands and legs with great haste, saying in a loud
voice: "Help, gentlemen, I'm drowning" that it was fear, really thought she was drowning. Closed
with him, carried him forth of that danger, he came to, was the fun of the gypsy, and all that,
dug in the indicated more than one state in deep, despite all those who told him mine was
a lie; and if not reverse it a neighbor, who played as the foundation of his house, he would
with both his on the floor, if you stop digging everything he wanted. SUPOS this story throughout
the city, and even the boys pointed their fingers and had his credulity and my lie.

This was the old woman, and this gave an excuse for not going to Seville. Gypsies determined
twisting the road on the left.

Left, then, Extremadura and came into the Channel, and were walking slowly to the kingdom Murcia.
In all villages and places that had passed ball challenges, fencing,
running, jumping, throwing the bar and other feats of strength, dexterity
and lightness, Andrés all out winner.

# A # He woke up the horde, and went to stay in a place of jurisdiction of Murcia, three leagues
from the city, where he succeeded Andrew unfortunate that put him
in the verge of losing life, and was that, having been in that place
some cups and silver items bonds, as was his custom, Preciosa and
her grandmother, and two other gitanillas Cristina, and Andrew, were
housed in an inn of a rich widow whom he had a daughter, age ten seventeen
or eighteen years, more brash than beautiful, and more by token, called
Juana Carducha.

This, having seen dancing to the Roma people, took the devil, and proposed to take Andrew for a
husband # # if he wished, but all his relatives were weighed; and thus, sought to tell her situation
and found it in a corral, where Andrew had entered require two donkeys. The officer turned to
him, and with haste, not to be seen, said:

- Andrew - he already knew his name ---, I'm rich girl, that my mother has another child but
to me, and this restaurant is his, and amen desto, has many hawthorns, and two pairs of houses.
Make me seemed good: if I want a wife, you are, answer me quickly, and if you discreet, stay,
and we'll see what a life.

Andrew was amazed by the decision of the Carducha, and with the speed that she asked him said

-
Lady girl, I'm bespoken to marry, and Roma did not get married but Roma: God save the mercy
that I wanted to do, who I am not worthy.

It was not on two fingers of the dead fall aceda Carducha response to Andrew, who replicate
if he saw entering the corral other Roma.

Run went out and forlorn, and gladly take revenge if I could. Andrew, as a shrewd, determined
to land medium, and deviate from the time that the Devil offered
him, and thus called on all gypsies that night was from that place.

They always obey him, put him then for work, and collecting their bail that afternoon, they left.

The
Carducha ordered Andrew to be by force, and which could not level, and so, industry, sagacity,
and his bad intentions secret that taught him, placed among the jewels of Andrew she knew
by his, a rich coral and two patens of silver, with his other jumps, and had barely left the inn,
when he cried out, saying that the gypsies had stolen her jewelry, a justice whose voices came
and all the townspeople.

Gypsies halted, and all swore that nothing had been stolen and that they would patent All the
sacks and recovered from their wigwams. Desto was much vexed the old woman, fearing that in that
election did not manifest the charms of the Precious and dressed Andrew, it with great care and
caution kept, but the good of the remediated Carducha very soon all because the second envelope
that looked said he asked what was the that gipsy great dancer, she had seen entering her apartment
twice, and it could be that the carry. Andrew understood that he said it, and laughing, said:

-
Lady Maiden, this is my bedroom and this is my ass, if you halláredes in her or him what I needed,
I would pay to sevenfold, subjected to the punishment outside the law to thieves.

Came after the ministers of justice to rob the colt, and gave few laps the theft, was so shocked
that Andrew and so absorbed, that it seemed statue voiceless, hard stone.

- I never suspected it? - Said by this time the Carducha -. Look how good face masks as big a
thief!

A silent throughout Andrés, suspense and imaginative, and not just fall into the betrayal of the
Carducha. In this, he became a brave soldier, nephew of the mayor and without further raised
his hand, and gave him a blow, such that he was returning from his
reverie and made him agree not was Andrew Knight, but Don Juan and
a gentleman, and attacking the soldiers quickly secured and more anger,
he pulled his own sword from its scabbard, and sheathed in the body,
leading to He died on the ground.

[Illustration: ... he started his own sword from its scabbard, and sheathed in the body, ...]

Here was the cry of the people here amohinarse Mayor Uncle, here the faint Preciosa Andrew
and disturbed to see her faint, here come all the weapons and give after the murder. Confusion
grew, grew the yells, and turn to faint Preciosa Andres, stopped attending to his defense, finally
both loaded on Andrew, who seized and shackled him with two very
thick strings.

Well I would like the Mayor then hang him if I were in his hand;
but had to refer to Murcia, being of his JURISDICTION.

Not taken until the next day and there was Andrew spent many martyrs and insults, which the indignant
mayor and his ministers, and every place you did. Mayor caught all over Roma and Roma as he could,
because the more fled. Finally, with the summary of the case and with a large cafile Gypsies, entered
the mayor and his ministers with a lot of other armed men in Murcia, among them was precious
and poor Andrew, wrap chains, on a male, and wives and piedeamigo. Murcia went all to see the prisoners,
who already knew about death soldier. But the beauty of that day was so precious, so that
anyone watching who did not blessing, and came the news of her beauty to the ears of the magistrate,
out of curiosity to see the magistrate made her husband commanded that the gypsies did not enter
prison and all the others did, and Andrew put him in a narrow cell, whose darkly and lack Beautiful
light of you were treated that well thought out of there but not for burial. Precious took his
grandmother to the magistrate saw her and saw her and said:

- No wonder the praise of beautiful.

And when he came to himself, embraced her tenderly, and not be satisfied with looking at her and
asked her grandmother to how old the girl.

- Fifteen years - said the Gypsy - two months more or less.

- They had the unfortunate agora my Costanza. Oh, friends, that this girl has renewed my my misery!
- said the magistrate.

Took in this precious hands of the Magistrate, and besándoselas many times, they are bathed with
tears and said:

- Lady, the gypsy who is in prison is guilty because he was provoked,
called him a thief, and it is not, they gave him a slap in his face,
which is such that it is discovered the goodness of your mood.

For God and for whom you are, madam, ye will keep His righteousness, and that the Mr. Corregidor
not in a hurry to run on him the punishment that they threaten law; and if you have been given
some welcome my beauty, entretenedla to entertain the prisoner, because the end of his life
is that of mine. He has to be my husband, and fair and honest impediments have been hampered
so far not yet given us habemos hands. If money were necessary to achieve the forgiveness
of all our wigwams were sold at public auction, and will even more than they ask. My lady, if
you know what love is, and you Did you have some time, and now you have your husband, Dole's
me, tender and honestly I love mine.

While in this, came the Corregidor, and finding his wife and weeping
and chained Preciosa, was suspended, and his tears and the beauty,
asked the cause of that feeling, and the answer he gave was released
Precious hands of the magistrate and grasp of the feet the magistrate,
saying:

- Lord, mercy, mercy!

If my husband dies, I'm dead! He has no guilt; but if so, unemployment is worth to me, and if this
can not be, at least, entertain the litigation in that they seek and look for possible means of
remedy, which may be that the sin of malice not send him the health of grace heaven.

With new suspension was the magistrate to hear the reasons for the Gitanilla discrete, and and,
if not for not giving signs of weakness, to accompany him in his tears. While this happened,
the old woman was considered large, many different things, and after of any such suspension
and imagination, said:

- Wait for me your worships, gentlemen, a little, that I will make these tears become laughter,
but to me it costs me my life.

And so, with a slight step out of where I was, leaving the audience confused with what said he.
While, therefore, that she came back, never let the tears and Precious
pleas they entertain the cause of her husband, intending to warn his
father, who came to hear it.

Roma turned to a small box under his arm, and said to Corregidor with his wife and she should
retire to a room, he had great things to say in secret. The magistrate, believing that some
theft of Gypsies would discover, for suitable to have him in the suit of the prisoner, when she
retired with her and with his wife in their chamber, where the gypsy, kneeling on his knees before
the two, he said,

- If the good news that I wish you, gentlemen, do not attain good news we deserve forgiveness
a great sin of mine, I am here for taking his punishment you please
give me, but before I confess you tell me, gentlemen, first, if you
know these gems.

And discovering a cofrecico where they came from the Preciosa, was
put in the hands of the magistrate, and opening it, saw those childish
charms, but they could not fall mean.

Had respect unto also the magistrate, but neither gave the following account: only said:

- These are some small creature ornaments.

- That is true - said Gypsy -, and what creature are you saying that is written the folded paper.

He
opened with haste the magistrate, and he read that said, "the girl
was called Dona Costanza de Azevedo and Meneses, his mother, Dona
Guiomar de Meneses, and his father, Don Fernando de Azevedo, sir the
habit of Calatrava.

Desparecíla day of the Ascension, at eight o'clock, one thousand and five hundred and ninety-five.
He brought the girl made these leaps in this Chest are kept. "

The magistrate had hardly heard the reasons for the paper, he recognized the trinkets, they are
put in their mouths and giving endless kisses, she fell unconscious.

She went to the magistrate, rather than ask the gypsy by her daughter, and having regained
consciousness, said:

- Women's good angel before Roma, where is the owner, say, the creature which was these pendants?

-
Where to, ma'am?

"- Said the Gypsy -. In your home you have: that gypsy I got tears in their eyes is his owner,
and is no doubt your daughter, that I Madrid theft of your house on the day and time that
the paper says.

Hearing this, the troubled lady, let go of the slippers, and desalted and running out into the room
where Precious had left and found her surrounded by her maids and servants, still crying attacked
her, and without saying anything, with great haste undid his chest and looked if he had a sign
small, like a lunar white, he was born, and found him already great, that over time had increased.
Then with the same promptness, his shoes and discovered a foot of snow and ivory, made around,
and saw in him what he wanted, which was that the two last fingers of the wedging of the right
foot with one another by a bit of flesh, which, when girl, had never wanted to cut, for not
giving grief. The chest, fingers, bounds, on the appointed day of the robbery, the confession
of the gypsy, and the shock and joy had received any parent when they saw her, in all truth confirmed
in the soul of the magistrate be precious daughter, and so, taking her in his arms, turned to
her where the Corregidor and Roma were.

Precious was confused, not knowing what EFET had done with it such proceedings, and more seeing
lead in the arms of the magistrate, and gave him a kiss up to one
hundred.

Arrived, finally, with the precious cargo Dona Guiomar to the presence of her husband, and transferred
his arms to the magistrate, said:

- Acorn, sir, for your daughter Costanza, that this is no doubt: no doubt it, sir, no mode,
the signal of the fingers together and the chest I've seen, and more, that is it for me saying
the soul from the moment that my eyes saw.

- No doubt - said the
magistrate, holding in his arms Preciosa -; that they EFET mine have
gone through that for yours, and more, so many punctuations together,
how could happen, if not for a miracle?

Everyone was walking home absorbed, asking each other what could
be, and all gave well away from the target, that had to imagine who
the Gitanilla was the daughter of their masters?
This was an object of great wonderment to all the people round about; and it must be confessed
that there are few boys, or men either, who could contrive to tell what o'clock it is by means
of a bowl of water.

Besides the water-clock, Isaac made a sundial.  Thus his grandmother was never at a loss to
know the hour; for the water-clock would tell it in the shade, and the dial in the sunshine.
The sundial is said to be still in existence at Woolsthorpe, on the corner of the house where
Isaac dwelt.  If so, it must have marked the passage of every sunny hour that has elapsed since
Isaac Newton was a boy.  It marked all the famous moments of his life; it marked the hour of
his death; and still the sunshine creeps slowly over it, as regularly as when Isaac first set
it up.

Yet we must not say that the sundial has lasted longer than its maker; for Isaac Newton will
exist long after the dial--yes, and long after the sun itself--shall have crumbled to decay.

Isaac possessed a wonderful faculty of acquiring knowledge by the simplest means.  For instance,
what method do you suppose he took to find out the strength of the wind?  You will never guess
how the boy could compel that unseen, inconstant, and ungovernable wonder, the wind, to tell
him the measure of its strength.  Yet nothing can be more simple.  He jumped against the wind;
and by the length of his jump he could calculate the force of a gentle breeze, a brisk gale,
or a tempest.  Thus, even in his boyish sports, he was continually searching out the secrets
of philosophy.

Not far from his grandmother's residence there was a windmill which operated on a new plan.
Isaac was in the habit of going thither frequently, and would spend whole hours in examining
its various parts. While the mill was at rest he pried into its internal machinery.  When its
broad sails were set in motion by the wind, he watched the process by which the mill-stones
were made to revolve and crush the grain that was put into the hopper.  After gaining a thorough
knowledge of its construction he was observed to be unusually busy with his tools.

It was not long before his grandmother and all the neighborhood knew what Isaac had been about.
He had constructed a model of the windmill. Though not so large, I suppose, as one of the box
traps which boys set to catch squirrels, yet every part of the mill and is machinery was complete.
Its little sails were neatly made of linen, and whirled round very swiftly when the mill was
placed in a draught of air.  Even a puff of wind from Isaac's mouth or from a pair of bellows
was sufficient to set the sails in motion.  And, what was most curious, if a handful of grains
of wheat were put into the little hopper, they would soon be converted into snow-white flour.

Isaac's playmates were enchanted with his new windmill.  They thought that nothing so pretty
and so wonderful had ever been seen in the whole world.

"But, Isaac," said one of them, "you have forgotten one thing that belongs to a mill."

"What is that?" asked Isaac; for he supposed that, from the roof of the mill to its foundation,
he had forgotten nothing.

"Why, where is the miller?"  said his friend.

"That is true,--I must look out for one," said Isaac; and he set himself to consider how the
deficiency should be supplied.

He might easily have made the miniature figure of a man; but then it would not have been able
to move about and perform the duties of a miller.  As Captain Lemuel Gulliver had not yet discovered
the island of Lilliput, Isaac did not know that there were little men in the world whose size
was just suited to his windmill.  It so happened, however, that a mouse had just been caught
in the trap; and, as no other miller could be found, Mr. Mouse was appointed to that important
office.  The new miller made a very respectable appearance in his dark gray coat.  To be sure,
he had not a very good character for honesty, and was suspected of sometimes stealing a portion
of the grain which was given him to grind.  But perhaps some two-legged millers are quite as
dishonest as this small quadruped.

As Isaac grew older, it was found that he had far more important matters in his mind than the
manufacture of toys like the little windmill.  All day long, if left to himself, he was either
absorbed in thought or engaged in some book of mathematics or natural philosophy.  At night,
I think it probable, he looked up with reverential curiosity to the stars, and wondered whether
they were worlds like our own, and how great was their distance from the earth, and what was
the power that kept them in their courses.  Perhaps, even so early in life, Isaac Newton felt
a presentiment that he should be able, hereafter, to answer all these questions.

When Isaac was fourteen years old, his mother's second husband being now dead, she wished her
son to leave school and assist her in managing the farm at Woolsthorpe.  For a year or two,
therefore, he tried to turn his attention to farming.  But his mind was so bent on becoming
a scholar that his mother sent him back to school, and afterwards to the University of Cambridge.

I have now finished my anecdotes of Isaac Newton's boyhood.  My story would be far too long
were I to mention all the splendid discoveries which he made after he came to be a man.  He
was the first that found out the nature of light; for, before his day, nobody could tell what
the sunshine was composed of.  You remember, I suppose, the story of an apple's falling on
his head, and thus leading him to discover the force of gravitation, which keeps the heavenly
bodies in their courses.  When he had once got hold of this idea, he never permitted his mind
to rest until he had searched out all the laws by which the planets are guided through the
sky.  This he did as thoroughly as if he had gone up among the stars and tracked them in their
orbits.  The boy had found out the mechanism of a windmill; the man explained to his fellow-men
the mechanism of the universe.

While making these researches he was accustomed to spend night after night in a lofty tower,
gazing at the heavenly bodies through a telescope.  His mind was lifted far above the things
of this world. He may be said, indeed, to have spent the greater part of his life in worlds
that lie thousands and millions of miles away; for where the thoughts and the heart are, there
is our true existence.

Did you never hear the story of Newton and his little dog Diamond? One day, when he was fifty
years old, and had been hard at work more than twenty years studying the theory of light, he
went out of his chamber, leaving his little dog asleep before the fire.  On the table lay a
heap of manuscript papers, containing all the discoveries which Newton had made during those
twenty years.  When his master was gone, up rose little Diamond, jumped upon the table, and
overthrew the lighted candle.  The papers immediately caught fire.

Just as the destruction was completed Newton opened the chamber door, and perceived that the
labors of twenty years were reduced to a heap of ashes.  There stood little Diamond, the author
of all the mischief. Almost any other man would have sentenced the dog to immediate death.
But Newton patted him on the head with his usual kindness, although grief was at his heart.

"O Diamond, Diamond," exclaimed he, "thou little knowest the mischief then hast done!"

This incident affected his health and spirits for some time afterwards; but, from his conduct
towards the little dog, you may judge what was the sweetness of his temper.

Newton lived to be a very old man, and acquired great renown, and was made a member of Parliament,
and received the honor of knighthood from the king.  But he cared little for earthly fame and
honors, and felt no pride in the vastness of his knowledge.  All that he had learned only made
him feel how little he knew in comparison to what remained to be known.

"I seem to myself like a child," observed he, "playing on the sea-shore, and picking up here
and there a curious shell or a pretty pebble, while the boundless ocean of Truth lies undiscovered
before me."

At last, in 1727, when he was fourscore and five years old, Sir Isaac Newton died,--or rather,
he ceased to live on earth.  We may be permitted to believe that he is still searching out
the infinite wisdom and goodness of the Creator as earnestly, and with even more success, than
while his spirit animated a mortal body.  He has left a fame behind him which will be as endurable
as if his name were written in letters of light formed by the stars upon the midnight sky.

"I love to hear about mechanical contrivances, such as the water-clock and the little windmill,"
remarked George.  "I suppose, if Sir Isaac Newton had only thought of it, he might have found
out the steam-engine, and railroads, and all the other famous inventions that have come into
use since his day."

"Very possibly he might," replied Mr. Temple; "and no doubt a great many people would think
it more useful to manufacture steam-engines than to search out the system of the universe.
Other great astronomers besides Newton have been endowed with mechanical genius.  There was
David Rittenhouse, an American,--lie made a perfect little water-mill when he was only seven
or eight years old.  But this sort of ingenuity is but a mere trifle in comparison with the
other talents of such men."

"It must have been beautiful," said Edward, "to spend whole nights in a high tower as Newton
did, gazing at the stars, and the comets, and the meteors.  But what would Newton have done
had he been blind? or if his eyes had been no better than mine?"

"Why, even then, my dear child," observed Mrs. Temple, "he would have found out some way of
enlightening his mind and of elevating his soul. But come; little Emily is waiting to bid you
good night.  You must go to sleep and dream of seeing all our faces."

"But how sad it will be when I awake!" murmured Edward.

CHAPTER IV.

In the course of the next day the harmony of our little family was disturbed by something like
a quarrel between George and Edward.

The former, though he loved his brother dearly, had found it quite too great a sacrifice of
his own enjoyments to spend all his play-time in a darkened chamber.  Edward, on the other
hand, was inclined to be despotic.  He felt as if his bandaged eyes entitled him to demand
that everybody who enjoyed the blessing of sight should contribute to his comfort and amusement.
He therefore insisted that George, instead of going out to play at football, should join with
himself and Emily in a game of questions and answers.

George resolutely refused, and ran out of the house.  He did not revisit Edward's chamber till
the evening, when he stole in, looking confused, yet somewhat sullen, and sat down beside his
father's chair.  It was evident, by a motion of Edward's head and a slight trembling of his
lips, that he was aware of George's entrance, though his footsteps had been almost inaudible.
Emily, with her serious and earnest little face, looked from one to the other, as if she longed
to be a messenger of peace between them.

Mr. Temple, without seeming to notice any of these circumstances, began a story.

SAMUEL JOHNSON

[BORN 1709  DIED 1784.]

"Sam," said Mr. Michael Johnson, of Lichfield, one morning, "I am very feeble and ailing to-day.
You must go to Uttoxeter in my stead, and tend the bookstall in the market-place there."

This was spoken above a hundred years ago, by an elderly man, who had once been a thriving
bookseller at Lichfield, in England.  Being now in reduced circumstances, he was forced to
go every market-day and sell books at a stall, in the neighboring village of Uttoxeter.

His son, to whom Mr. Johnson spoke, was a great boy, of very singular aspect.  He had an intelligent
face; but it was seamed and distorted by a scrofulous humor, which affected his eyes so badly
that sometimes he was almost blind.  Owing to the same cause his head would often shake with
a tremulous motion as if he were afflicted with the palsy.  When Sam was an infant, the famous
Queen Anne had tried to cure him of this disease by laying her royal hands upon his head. 
But though the touch of a king or queen was supposed to be a certain remedy for scrofula, it
produced no good effect upon Sam Johnson.

At the time which we speak of the poor lad was not very well dressed, and wore shoes from which
his toes peeped out; for his old father had barely the means of supporting his wife and children.
But, poor as the family were, young Sam Johnson had as much pride as any nobleman's son in
England.  The fact was, he felt conscious of uncommon sense and ability, which, in his own
opinion, entitled him to great respect from the world.  Perhaps he would have been glad if
grown people had treated him as reverentially as his schoolfellows did.  Three of them were
accustomed to come for him every morning; and while he sat upon the back of one, the two others
supported him on each side; and thus he rode to school in triumph.

Being a personage of so much importance, Sam could not bear the idea of standing all day in
Uttoxeter market offering books to the rude and ignorant country people.  Doubtless he felt
the more reluctant on account of his shabby clothes, and the disorder of his eyes, and the
tremulous motion of his head.

When Mr. Michael Johnson spoke, Sam pouted and made an indistinct grumbling in his throat;
then he looked his old father in the face and answered him loudly and deliberately.

"Sir," said he, "I will not go to Uttoxeter market!"

Mr. Johnson had seen a great deal of the lad's obstinacy ever since his birth; and while Sam
was younger, the old gentleman had probably used the rod whenever occasion seemed to require.
But he was now too feeble and too much out of spirits to contend with this stubborn and violent-
tempered boy.  He therefore gave up the point at once, and prepared to go to Uttoxeter himself.

"Well, Sam," said Mr. Johnson, as he took his hat and staff, "if for the sake of your foolish
pride you can suffer your poor sick father to stand all day in the noise and confusion of the
market when he ought to be in his bed, I have no more to say.  But you will think of this,
Sam, when I am dead and gone."

So the poor old man (perhaps with a tear in his eye, but certainly with sorrow in his heart)
set forth towards Uttoxeter.  The gray-haired, feeble, melancholy Michael Johnson!  How sad
a thing it was that he should be forced to go, in his sickness, and toil for the support of
an ungrateful son who was too proud to do anything for his father, or his mother, or himself!
Sam looked after Mr. Johnson with a sullen countenance till he was out of sight.

But when the old man's figure, as he went stooping along the street, was no more to be seen,
the boy's heart began to smite him.  He had a vivid imagination, and it tormented him with
the image of his father standing in the market-place of Uttoxeter and offering his books to
the noisy crowd around him.  Sam seemed to behold him arranging his literary merchandise upon
the stall in such a way as was best calculated to attract notice.  Here was Addison's Spectator,
a long row of little volumes; here was Pope's translation of the Iliad and Odyssey; here were
Dryden's poems, or those of Prior.  Here, likewise, were Gulliver's Travels, and a variety
of little gilt-covered children's books, such as Tom Thumb, Jack the Giant Queller, Mother
Goose's Melodies, and others which our great-grandparents used to read in their childhood.
And here were sermons for the pious, and pamphlets for the politicians, and ballads, some merry
and some dismal ones, for the country people to sing.

Sam, in imagination, saw his father offer these books, pamphlets, and ballads, now to the rude
yeomen who perhaps could not read a word; now to the country squires, who cared for nothing
but to hunt hares and foxes; now to the children, who chose to spend their coppers for sugar-
plums or gingerbread rather than for picture-books.  And if Mr. Johnson should sell a book
to man, woman, or child, it would cost him an hour's talk to get a profit of only sixpence.

"My poor father!" thought Sam to himself.  "How his head will ache!  and how heavy his heart
will be!  I am almost sorry that I did not do as he bade me."

Then the boy went to his mother, who was busy about the house.  She did not know of what had
passed between Mr. Johnson and Sam.

"Mother," said he, "did you think father seemed very ill to-day?"

"Yes, Sam," answered his mother, turning with a flushed face from the fire, where she was cooking
their scanty dinner.  "Your father did look very ill; and it is a pity he did not send you
to Uttoxeter in his stead.  You are a great boy now, and would rejoice, I am sure, to do something
for your poor father, who has done so much for you."

The lad made no reply.  But again his imagination set to work and conjured up another picture
of poor Michael Johnson.  He was standing in the hot sunshine of the market-place, and looking
so weary, sick, and disconsolate, that the eyes of all the crowd were drawn to him.  "Had this
old man no son," the people would say among themselves, "who might have taken his place at
the bookstall while the father kept his bed?" And perhaps, but this was a terrible thought
for Sam!--perhaps his father would faint away and fall down in the marketplace, with his gray
hair in the dust and his venerable face as deathlike as that of a corpse.  And there would
be the bystanders gazing earnestly at Mr. Johnson and whispering, "Is he dead?  Is he dead?"

And Sam shuddered as he repeated to himself, "Is he dead?"

"O, I have been a cruel son!" thought he, within his own heart.  "God forgive me!  God forgive me!"

But God could not yet forgive him; for he was not truly penitent.  Had he been so, he would
have hastened away that very moment to Uttoxeter, and have fallen at his father's feet, even
in the midst of the crowded market-place.  There he would have confessed his fault, and besought
Mr. Johnson to go home and leave the rest of the day's work to him.  But such was Sam's pride
and natural stubbornness that he could not bring himself to this humiliation.  Yet he ought
to have done so, for his own sake, for his father's sake, and for God's sake.

After sunset old Michael Johnson came slowly home and sat down in his customary chair.  He
said nothing to Sam; nor do I know that a single word ever passed between them on the subject
of the son's disobedience. In a few years his father died, and left Sam to fight his way through
the world by himself.  It would make our story much too long were I to tell you even a few
of the remarkable events of Sam's life.  Moreover, there is the less need of this, because
many books have been written about that poor boy, and the fame that he acquired, and all that
he did or talked of doing after he came to be a man.

But one thing I must not neglect to say.  From his boyhood upward until the latest day of his
life he never forgot the story of Uttoxeter market.  Often when he was a scholar of the University
of Oxford, or master of an academy at Edial, or a writer for the London booksellers,-- in all
his poverty and toil and in all his success,--while he was walking the streets without a shilling
to buy food, or when the greatest men of England were proud to feast him at their table,--still
that heavy and remorseful thought came back to him, "I was cruel to my poor father in his illness!"
Many and many a time, awake or in his dreams, he seemed to see old Michael Johnson standing
in the dust and confusion of the market-place and pressing his withered hand to his forehead
as if it ached.

Alas! my dear children, it is a sad thing to have such a thought as this to bear us company
through life.

Though the story was but half finished, yet, as it was longer than usual, Mr. Temple here made
a short pause.  He perceived that Emily was in tears, and Edward turned his half-veiled face
towards the speaker with an air of great earnestness and interest.  As for George, he had withdrawn
into the dusky shadow behind his father's chair.

CHAPTER V.

In a few moments Mr. Temple resumed the story, as follows:--

SAMUEL JOHNSON.

[CONTINUED]

Well, my children, fifty years had passed away since young Sam Johnson had shown himself so
hard-hearted towards his father.  It was now market-day in the village of Uttoxeter.

In the street of the village you might see cattle-dealers with cows and oxen for sale, and
pig-drovers with herds of squeaking swine, and farmers with cartloads of cabbages, turnips,
onions, and all other produce of the soil.  Now and then a farmer's red-faced wife trotted
along on horseback, with butter and cheese in two large panniers.  The people of the village,
with country squires, and other visitors from the neighborhood, walked hither and thither,
trading, jesting, quarrelling, and making just such a bustle as their fathers and grandfathers
had made half a century before.

In one part of the street there was a puppet-show with a ridiculous merry-andrew, who kept
both grown people and children in a roar of laughter.  On the opposite side was the old stone
church of Uttoxeter, with ivy climbing up its walls and partly obscuring its Gothic windows.

There was a clock in the gray tower of the ancient church, and the hands on the dial-plate
had now almost reached the hour of noon.  At this busiest hour of the market a strange old
gentleman was seen making his way among the crowd, he was very tall and bulky, and wore a brown
coat and small-clothes, with black worsted stockings and buckled shoes.  On his head was a
three cornered hat, beneath which a bushy gray wig thrust itself out, all in disorder.  The
old gentleman elbowed the people aside, and forced his way through the midst of them with a
singular kind of gait, rolling his body hither and thither, so that he needed twice as much
room as any other person there.

"Make way, sir!" he would cry out, in a loud, harsh voice, when somebody happened to interrupt
his progress.  "Sir, you intrude your person into the public thoroughfare!"

"What a queer old fellow this is!" muttered the people among themselves, hardly knowing whether
to laugh or to be angry.

But when they looked into the venerable stranger's face, not the most thoughtless among them
dared to offer him the least impertinence. Though his features were scarred and distorted with
the scrofula, and though his eyes were dim and bleared, yet there was something of authority
and wisdom in his look, which impressed them all with awe.  So they stood aside to let him
pass; and the old gentleman made his way across the market-place, and paused near the corner
of the ivy-mantled church.  Just as he reached it the clock struck twelve.

On the very spot of ground where the stranger now stood some aged people remembered that old
Michael Johnson had formerly kept his book-stall. The little children who had once bought picture-books
of him were grandfathers now.

"Yes; here is the very spot!" muttered the old gentleman to himself.

There this unknown personage took his stand and removed the three- cornered hat from his head.
It was the busiest hour of the day.  What with the hum of human voices, the lowing of cattle,
the squeaking of pigs, and the laughter caused by the merry-andrew, the marketplace was in
very great confusion.  But the stranger seemed not to notice it any more than if the silence
of a desert were around him.  He was rapt in his own thoughts.  Sometimes he raised his furrowed
brow to heaven, as if in prayer; sometimes he bent his head, as if an insupportable weight
of sorrow were upon him.  It increased the awfulness of his aspect that there was a motion
of his head and an almost continual tremor throughout his frame, with singular twitches and
contortions of his features.

The hot sun blazed upon his unprotected head; but he seemed not to feel its fervor.  A dark
cloud swept across the sky and rain-drops pattered into the market-place; but the stranger
heeded not the shower.  The people began to gaze at the mysterious old gentleman with superstitious
fear and wonder.  Who could he be?  Whence did he come?  Wherefore was he standing bareheaded
in the market-place?  Even the school-boys left the merry-andrew and came to gaze, with wide-open
eyes, at this tall, strange-looking old man.

There was a cattle-drover in the village who had recently made a journey to the Smithfield
market, in London.  No sooner had this man thrust his way through the throng and taken a look
at the unknown personage, than he whispered to one of his acquaintances,--

"I say, Neighbor Hutchins, would ye like to know who this old gentleman is?"

"Ay, that I would," replied Neighbor Hutchins, "for a queerer chap I never saw in my life.
Somehow it makes me feel small to look at him. He's more than a common man."

"You may well say so," answered the cattle-drover.  "Why, that's the famous Doctor Samuel Johnson,
who they say is the greatest and learnedest man in England.  I saw him in London streets, walking
with one Mr. Boswell."

Yes; the poor boy, the friendless Sam, with whom we began our story, had become the famous
Doctor Samuel Johnson.  He was universally acknowledged as the wisest man and greatest writer
in all England.  He had given shape and permanence to his native language by his Dictionary.
Thousands upon thousands of people had read his Idler, his Rambler, and his Rasselas.  Noble
and wealthy men and beautiful ladies deemed it their highest privilege to be his companions.
Even the King of Great Britain had sought his acquaintance, and told him what an honor he considered
it that such a man had been born in his dominions.  He was now at the summit of literary renown.

But all his fame could not extinguish the bitter remembrance which had tormented him through
life.  Never never had he forgotten his father's sorrowful and upbraiding look.  Never, though
the old man's troubles had been over so many years, had he forgiven himself for inflicting
such a pang upon his heart.  And now, in his old age, he had come hither to do penance, by
standing at noonday, in the market-place of Uttoxeter, on the very spot where Michael Johnson
had once kept his book-stall.  The aged and illustrious man had done what the poor boy refused
to do.  By thus expressing his deep repentance and humiliation of heart, he hoped to gain peace
of conscience and the forgiveness of God.

My dear children, if you have grieved (I will not say your parents, but if you have grieved)
the heart of any human being who has a claim upon your love, then think of Samuel Johnson's
penance.  Will it not be better to redeem the error now than to endure the agony of remorse
for fifty years?  Would you not rather say to a brother, "I have erred; forgive me!" than perhaps
to go hereafter and shed bitter tears upon his grave?

Hardly was the story concluded when George hastily arose, and Edward likewise, stretching forth
his hands into the darkness that surrounded him to find his brother.  Both accused themselves
of unkindness: each besought the other's forgiveness; and having done so, the trouble of their
hearts vanished away like a dream.

"I am glad!  I am so glad!" said Emily, in a low, earnest voice.  "Now I shall sleep quietly
to-night."

"My sweet child," thought Mrs. Temple as she kissed her, "mayest thou never know how much strife
there is on earth!  It would cost thee many a night's rest."

CHAPTER VI.

About this period Mr. Temple found it necessary to take a journey, which interrupted the series
of Biographical Stories for several evenings.  In the interval, Edward practised various methods
of employing and amusing his mind.

Sometimes he meditated upon beautiful objects which he had formerly seen, until the intensity
of his recollection seemed to restore him the gift of sight and place everything anew before
his eyes.  Sometimes he repeated verses of poetry which he did not know to be in his memory
until he found them there just at the time of need.  Sometimes he attempted to solve arithmetical
questions which had perplexed him while at school.

Then, with his mother's assistance, he learned the letters of the string alphabet, which is
used in some of the institutions for the blind in Europe.  When one of his friends gave him
a leaf of St. Mark's Gospel, printed in embossed characters, he endeavored to read it by passing
his fingers over the letters as blind children do.

His brother George was now very kind, and spent so much time in the darkened chamber that Edward
often insisted upon his going out to play. George told him all about the affairs at school,
and related many amusing incidents that happened among his comrades, and informed him what
sports were now in fashion, and whose kite soared the highest, and whose little ship sailed
fleetest on the Frog Pond.  As for Emily, she repeated stories which she had learned from a
new book called THE FLOWER PEOPLE, in which the snowdrops, the violets, the columbines, the
roses, and all that lovely tribe are represented as telling their secrets to a little girl.
The flowers talked sweetly, as flowers should; and Edward almost fancied that he could behold
their bloom and smell their fragrant breath.

Thus, in one way or another, the dark days of Edward's confinement passed not unhappily.  In
due time his father returned; and the next evening, when the family were assembled, he began
a story.

"I must first observe, children," said he, "that some writers deny the truth of the incident
which I am about to relate to you.  There certainly is but little evidence in favor of it.
Other respectable writers, however, tell it for a fact; and, at all events, it is an interesting
story, and has an excellent moral."

So Mr. Temple proceeded to talk about the early days of

OLIVER CROMWELL.

[BORN 1599  DIED 1658.]

Not long after King James I. took the place of Queen Elizabeth on the throne of England, there
lived an English knight at a place called Hinchinbrooke.  His name was Sir Oliver Cromwell.
He spent his life, I suppose, pretty much like other English knights and squires in those days,
bunting hares and foxes and drinking large quantities of ale and wine.  The old house in which
he dwelt had been occupied by his ancestors before him for a good many years.  In it there
was a great hall, hang round with coats of arms and helmets, cuirasses and swords, which his
forefathers had used in battle, and with horns of deer and tails of foxes which they or Sir
Oliver himself had killed in the chase.

This Sir Oliver Cromwell had a nephew, who had been called Oliver, after himself, but who was
generally known in the family by the name of little Noll.  His father was a younger brother
of Sir Oliver.  The child was often sent to visit his uncle, who probably found him a troublesome
little fellow to take care of.  He was forever in mischief, and always running into some danger
or other, from which he seemed to escape only by miracle. 

Don Mateo, decrepit old man, not only spoiled by the years, but by a multitude of ailments acquired
a life of dissipation sick, was the joy of the town of Sarrió. No party any private or public
rejoicing in the village was done without your intervention.  There this ugly beast sat grinning at the affrighted spectators,
as if it had done the most praiseworthy thing imaginable.  Fortunately, however, he brought
the child safe down again; and the event was afterwards considered an omen that Noll would
reach a very elevated station in the world.

One morning, when Noll was five or six years old a royal messenger arrived at Hinchinbrooke
with tidings that King James was coming to dine with Sir Oliver Cromwell.  This was a high
honor, to be sure, but a very great trouble; for all the lords and ladies, knights, squires,
guards and yeomen, who waited on the king, were to be feasted as well as himself; and more
provisions would be eaten and more wine drunk in that one day than generally in a month.  However,
Sir Oliver expressed much thankfulness for the king's intended visit, and ordered his butler
and cook to make the best preparations in their power.  So a great fire was kindled in the
kitchen; and the neighbors knew by the smoke which poured out of the chimney that boiling,
baking, stewing, roasting, and frying were going on merrily.

By and by the sound of trumpets was heard approaching nearer and nearer; a heavy, old-fashioned
coach, surrounded by guards on horseback, drove up to the house.  Sir Oliver, with his hat
in his hand, stood at the gate to receive the king.  His Majesty was dressed in a suit of green
not very new; he had a feather in his hat and a triple ruff round his neck, and over his shoulder
was slung a hunting-horn instead of a sword. Altogether he had not the most dignified aspect
in the world; but the spectators gazed at him as if there was something superhuman and divine
in his person.  They even shaded their eyes with their hands, as if they were dazzled by the
glory of his countenance. 

Sought to stew, the food chopper. It was very rough and was not afraid in the world but its
the gypsy woman, who when he was tired of being beaten trying to bite. To him there was no getting
explanations, but plenty of wine. Alcohol and atrocious fall kept him in the ring in perpetual bewilderment,
as if the head is horrible, allowing no more than slow words and a blurred view of things.

National also ordered to go with them: one more, and discretion at all costs.

The banderillero obeyed by subordination, but muttering to know who was with them Dona Sol

- By way of the blue dove! ... And a family stops to look at these things got ugly! ... What will
Carmen and me Sorrows sign if yegan to know? ...

When he was in the countryside, sitting next to stew on the bench of a car, compared the sword
and the great lady, was gradually fading anger.

Not looked good as I was wrapped in a large blue veil fell from his
cap travel knotting of the coat of yellow silk, but it was very beautiful
... And what a conversation!

Y how to know things! ...

Before the middle of the trip, the National, with its twenty-five years of fidelity home, excused
the weaknesses of the matador, explaining his enthusiasm.

That was seen in the same case, and would do the same! ...

The instruction! ... One great thing, able to command respect even
the greatest sins.

V

- That you iga who is, or is it Yevenes demons.

Cursed be the luck ... Can not can one sleep? ...

The National Response to hear this through the bedroom door of his
master, and transmitted to a pawn of the farmhouse that was waiting
on the stairs.

- That you who iga.

Without that, the master does not rise.

It was eight.

The banderillero looked out a window, along with pawn view that running
down a road in front of the farmhouse, to reach the far end of that
circuit wiring the farm.

Near the entrance of the fence was a rider dwarfed by the distance:
a man and a horse appeared out of a toy box.

Soon came the day laborer, after talking to the rider.

El Nacional, interested in these comings and goings, it was at the foot of the stairs.

- Ice that is the master nesesita - hastily muttered the laborer -. Paece purges bad man. Quie
has icho that continued to fall in, because Tie a goo to give.

Banderillero again banging on the door of the sword, ignoring the protests of it. He was awakened,
for the field was a late hour, and that man could bring a interesting message.

- I'm coming! - Gallardo said crossly, without leaving your bed.

Nacional peek again, and saw that the rider walked down the road to the farmhouse.

The peon came to meet with the response. The poor man seemed uneasy, and its two dialogues with
banderillero stammered with an expression of spasm and doubt, not
daring to express their thoughts.

By joining with the rider, we heard a few moments and turned to retrace
his path, running to the farm, but this time with more precipitation.

El Nacional heard him climb the stairs with no less speed, appearing before him trembling and
pale.

- Is er Plumitas, Sr. Sebastian! Ice is er Plumitas, and nesesita
Talk to the master ... I gave him denque CORASON vi er.

The Plumitas!
... The voice of the pawn, despite being suppressed by the stammering
and fatigue, seemed spread through the rooms to pronounce this name.
The flagman was speechless surprise. In the sword room rang a few
oaths accompanied by friction clothes and a beat up body was put rudely
out of bed. In the occupied Dona Sol notos also some movement which
appeared to be the great news.

- But is Cursed! What Quie me man?
Why get into the corner? And just now! ...

It was Garcia, who hurriedly
left his room, with nothing but pants and a jacket, hastily put on
their undergarments. He ran to the flagman, with blind vehemence of
his impulsiveness, and fell down the stairs, rather than decreased,
National followed.

At the entrance of the farmhouse the rider dismounted.
A farmhand holding the reins of the pony and other workers formed
a group at close range, watching the newcomer with curiosity and respect.

He
was a man of medium height, rather low than high, carilleno, blond,
short limbs and strong. He wore a gray blouse adorned with black braid,
dark pants and frayed with thick reinforcement in the crotch cloth
and leather leggings cracked by sun, rain and mud.
But fate had ordained that good King James should not finish his dinner in peace.

All of a sudden there arose a terrible uproar in the room where the children were at play.
Angry shouts and shrill cries of alarm were mixed up together; while the voices of elder persons
were likewise heard, trying to restore order among the children.  The king and everybody else
at table looked aghast; for perhaps the tumult made them think that a general rebellion had
broken out.

"Mercy on us!" muttered Sir Oliver; "that graceless nephew of mine is in some mischief or other.
The naughty little whelp!"

Getting up from table, he ran to see what was the matter, followed by many of the guests, and
the king among them.  They all crowded to the door of the playroom.

On looking in, they beheld the little Prince Charles, with his rich dress all torn and covered
with the dust of the floor.  His royal blood was streaming from his nose in great abundance.
He gazed at Noll with a mixture of rage and affright, and at the same time a puzzled expression,
as if he could not understand how any mortal boy should dare to give him a beating.  As for
Noll, there stood his sturdy little figure, bold as a lion, looking as if he were ready to
fight, not only the prince, but the king and kingdom too.

"You little villain!" cried his uncle.  "What have you been about?  Down on your knees, this
instant, and ask the prince's pardon.  How dare you lay your hands on the king's majesty's
royal son?"

"He struck me first," grumbled the valiant little Noll; "and I've only given him his due."

Sir Oliver and the guests lifted up their hands in astonishment and horror.  No punishment
seemed severe enough for this wicked little varlet, who had dared to resent a blow from the
king's own son.  Some of the courtiers were of opinion that Noll should be sent prisoner to
the Tower of London and brought to trial for high treason.  Others, in their great zeal for
the king's service, were about to lay hands on the boy and chastise him in the royal presence.

But King James, who sometimes showed a good deal of sagacity, ordered them to desist.

"Thou art a bold boy," said he, looking fixedly at little Noll; "and, if thou live to be a
man, my son Charlie would do wisely to be friends with thee."

"I never will!" cried the little prince, stamping his foot.

"Peace, Charlie, peace!"  said the king; then addressing Sir Oliver and the attendants, "Harm
not the urchin; for he has taught my son a good lesson, if Heaven do but give him grace to
profit by it.  Hereafter, should he be tempted to tyrannize over the stubborn race of Englishmen,
let him remember little Noll Cromwell and his own bloody nose."

So the king finished his dinner and departed; and for many a long year the childish quarrel
between Prince Charles and Noll Cromwell was forgotten.  The prince, indeed, might have lived
a happier life, and have met a more peaceful death, had he remembered that quarrel and the
moral which his father drew from it.  But when old King James was dead, and Charles sat upon
his throne, he seemed to forget that he was but a man, and that his meanest subjects were men
as well as he.  He wished to have the property and lives of the people of England entirely
at his own disposal.  But the Puritans, and all who loved liberty, rose against him and beat
him in many battles, and pulled him down from his throne.

Throughout this war between the king and nobles on one side and the people of England on the
other there was a famous leader, who did more towards the ruin of royal authority than all
the rest.  The contest seemed like a wrestling-match between King Charles and this strong man.
And the king was overthrown.

When the discrowned monarch was brought to trial, that warlike leader sat in the judgment hall.
Many judges were present besides himself; but he alone had the power to save King Charles or
to doom him to the scaffold.  After sentence was pronounced, this victorious general was entreated
by his own children, on their knees, to rescue his Majesty from death.

"No!"  said he, sternly.  "Better that one man should perish than that the whole country should
be ruined for his sake.  It is resolved that he shall die!"

When Charles, no longer a king, was led to the scaffold, his great enemy stood at a window
of the royal palace of Whitehall.  He beheld the poor victim of pride, and an evil education,
and misused power, as he laid his head upon the block.  He looked on with a steadfast gaze
while a black-veiled executioner lifted the fatal axe and smote off that anointed head at a
single blow.

"It is a righteous deed," perhaps he said to himself.

"Now Englishmen may enjoy their rights."

At night, when the body of Charles was laid in the coffin, in a gloomy chamber, the general
entered, lighting himself with a torch.  Its gleams showed that he was now growing old; his
visage was scarred with the many battles in which he had led the van; his brow was wrinkled
with care and with the continual exercise of stern authority.  Probably there was not a single
trait, either of aspect or manner, that belonged to the little Noll who had battled so stoutly
with Prince Charles.  Yet this was he!

He lifted the coffin-lid, and caused the light of his torch to fall upon the dead monarch's
face.  Then, probably, his mind went back over all the marvellous events that had brought the
hereditary King of England to this dishonored coffin, and had raised himself, a humble individual,
to the possession of kingly power.  He was a king, though without the empty title or the glittering
crown.

"Why was it," said Cromwell to himself, or might have said, as he gazed at the pale features
in the coffin,--"why was it that this great king fell, and that poor Noll Cromwell has gained
all the power of the realm?"

And, indeed, why was it?

King Charles had fallen, because, in his manhood the same as when a child, he disdained to
feel that every human creature was his brother. He deemed himself a superior being, and fancied
that his subjects were created only for a king to rule over.  And Cromwell rose, because, in
spite of his many faults, he mainly fought for the rights and freedom of his fellow-men; and
therefore the poor and the oppressed all lent their strength to him.

"Dear father, how I should hate to be a king!"  exclaimed Edward.

"And would you like to be a Cromwell?" inquired his father.

"I should like it well," replied George; "only I would not have put the poor old king to death.
I would have sent him out of the kingdom, or perhaps have allowed him to live in a small house
near the gate of the royal palace.  It was too severe to cut off his head."

"Kings are in such an unfortunate position," said Mr. Temple, "that they must either be almost
deified by their subjects, or else be dethroned and beheaded.  In either case it is a pitiable
lot."

"O, I had rather be blind than be a king!" said Edward.

"Well, my dear Edward," observed his mother, with a smile, "I am glad you are convinced that
your own lot is not the hardest in the world."

CHAPTER VII.

It was a pleasant sight, for those who had eyes, to see how patiently the blinded little boy
now submitted to what he had at first deemed an intolerable calamity.  The beneficent Creator
has not allowed our comfort to depend on the enjoyment of any single sense.  Though he has
made the world so very beautiful, yet it is possible to be happy without ever be holding the
blue sky, or the green and flowery earth, or the kind faces of those whom we love.  Thus it
appears that all the external beauty of the universe is a free gift from God over and above
what is necessary to our comfort.  How grateful, then, should we be to that divine Benevolence,
which showers even superfluous bounties upon us!

One truth, therefore, which Edward's blindness had taught him was, that his mind and soul could
dispense with the assistance of his eyes. Doubtless, however, he would have found this lesson
far more difficult to learn had it not been for the affection of those around him.  His parents,
and George and Emily, aided him to bear his misfortune; if possible, they would have lent him
their own eyes.  And this, too, was a good lesson for him.  It taught him how dependent on
one another God has ordained us to be, insomuch that all the necessities of mankind should
incite them to mutual love.

So Edward loved his friends, and perhaps all the world, better than he ever did before.  And
be felt grateful towards his father for spending the evenings in telling him stories,--more
grateful, probably, than any of my little readers will feel towards me for so carefully writing
these same stories down.

"Come, dear father," said he, the next evening, "now tell us about some other little boy who
was destined to be a famous man."

"How would you like a story of a Boston boy?" asked his father.

"O, pray let us have it!" cried George, eagerly.  "It will be all the better if he has been
to our schools, and has coasted on the Common, and sailed boats in the Frog Pond.  I shall
feel acquainted with him. then."

"Well, then," said Mr. Temple, "I will introduce you to a Boston boy whom all the world became
acquainted with after he grew to be a man."

The story was as follows:--

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.

[BORN 1706,  DIED 1790]

In the year 1716, or about that period, a boy used to be seen in the streets of Boston who
was known among his schoolfellows and playmates by the name of Ben Franklin.  Ben was born
in 1706; so that he was now about ten years old.  His father, who had come over from England,
was a soap-boiler and tallow-chandler, and resided in Milk Street, not far from the Old South
Church.

Ben was a bright boy at his book, and even a brighter one when at play with his comrades. 
He had some remarkable qualities which always seemed to give him the lead, whether at sport
or in more serious matters.  I might tell you a number of amusing anecdotes about him.  You
are acquainted, I suppose, with his famous story of the WHISTLE, and how he bought it, with
a whole pocketful of coppers and afterwards repented of his bargain.  But Ben had grown a great
boy since those days, and had gained wisdom by experience; for it was one of his peculiarities,
that no incident ever happened to him without teaching him some valuable lesson.  Thus he generally
profited more by his misfortunes than many people do by the most favorable events that could
befall them.

Ben's face was already pretty well known to the inhabitants of Boston. The selectmen and other
people of note often used to visit his father, for the sake of talking about the affairs of
the town or province.  Mr. Franklin was considered a person of great wisdom and integrity,
and was respected by all who knew him, although he supported his family by the humble trade
of boiling soap and making tallow candles.

While his father and the visitors were holding deep consultations about public affairs, little
Ben would sit on his stool in a corner, listening with the greatest interest, as if he understood
every word.  Indeed, his features were so full of intelligence that there could be but little
doubt, not only that he understood what was said, but that he could have expressed some very
sagacious opinions out of his own mind.  But in those days boys were expected to be silent
in the presence of their elders.  However, Ben Franklin was looked upon as a very promising
lad, who would talk and act wisely by and by.

"Neighbor Franklin," his father's friends would sometimes say, "you ought to send this boy
to college and make a minister of him."

"I have often thought of it," his father would reply; "and my brother Benjamin promises to
give him a great many volumes of manuscript sermons, in case he should be educated for the
church.  But I have a large family to support, and cannot afford the expense."

In fact, Mr. Franklin found it so difficult to provide bread for his family, that, when the
boy was ten years old, it became necessary to take him from school.  Ben was then employed
in cutting candle-wicks into equal lengths and filling the moulds with tallow; and many families
in Boston spent their evenings by the light of the candles which he had helped to make.  Thus,
you see, in his early days, as well as in his manhood, his labors contributed to throw light
upon dark matters.

Busy as his life now was, Ben still found time to keep company with his former schoolfellows.
He and the other boys were very fond of fishing, and spent many of their leisure hours on the
margin of the mill-pond, catching flounders, perch, eels, and tomcod, which came up thither
with the tide.  The place where they fished is now, probably, covered with stone pavements
and brick buildings, and thronged with people and with vehicles of all kinds.  But at that
period it was a marshy spot on the outskirts of the town, where gulls flitted and screamed
overhead and salt-meadow grass grew under foot.

On the edge of the water there was a deep bed of clay, in which the boys were forced to stand
while they caught their fish.  Here they dabbled in mud and mire like a flock of ducks.

"This is very uncomfortable," said Ben Franklin one day to his comrades, while they were standing
mid-leg deep in the quagmire.

"So it is," said the other boys.  "What a pity we have no better place to stand!"

If it mad not been for Ben, nothing more would have been done or said about, the matter.  Butt
it was not in his nature to be sensible of an inconvenience without using his best efforts
to find a remedy.  So, as he and his comrades were returning from the water-side, Ben suddenly
threw down his string of fish with a very determined air.

"Boys," cried he, "I have thought of a scheme which will be greatly for our benefit and for
the public benefit."

It was queer enough, to be sure, to hear this little chap--this rosy- checked, ten-year-old
boy--talking about schemes for the public benefit! Nevertheless, his companions were ready
to listen, being assured that Ben's scheme, whatever it was, would be well worth their attention.
They remembered how sagaciously he had conducted all their enterprises ever since he had been
old enough to wear small-clothes.

They remembered, too, his wonderful contrivance of sailing across the mill-pond by lying flat
on his back in the water and allowing himself to be drawn along by a paper kite.  If Ben could
do that, he might certainly do anything.

"What is your scheme, Ben?--what is it?" cried they all.

It so happened that they had now come to a spot of ground where a new house was to be built.
Scattered round about lay a great many large stones which were to be used for the cellar and
foundation.  Ben mounted upon the highest of these stones, so that he might speak with the
more authority.

"You know, lads," said he, "what a plague it is to be forced to stand in the quagmire yonder,--over
shoes and stockings (if we wear any) in mud and water.  See! I am bedaubed to the knees of
my small-clothes; and you are all in the same pickle.  Unless we can find some remedy for this
evil, our fishing business must be entirely given up.  And, surely, this would be a terrible
misfortune!"

"That it would! that it would!"  said his comrades, sorrowfully.

"Now, I propose," continued Master Benjamin, "that we build a wharf, for the purpose of carrying
on our fisheries.  You see these stones.  The workmen mean to use them for the underpinning
of a house; but that would be for only one man's advantage.  My plan is to take these same
stones and carry them to the edge of the water and build a wharf with them. This will not only
enable us to carry on the fishing business with comfort and to better advantage, but it will
likewise be a great convenience to boats passing up and down the stream.  Thus, instead of
one man, fifty, or a hundred, or a thousand, besides ourselves, may be benefited by these stones.
What say you, lads? shall we build the wharf?"

Bell's proposal was received with one of those uproarious shouts wherewith boys usually express
their delight at whatever completely suits their views.  Nobody thought of questioning the
right and justice of building a wharf with stones that belonged to another person.

"Hurrah! hurrah!" shouted they.  "Let's set about it."

It was agreed that they should all be on the spot that evening and commence their grand public
enterprise by moonlight.  Accordingly, at the appointed time, the whole gang of youthful laborers
assembled, and eagerly began to remove the stones. And the original case was that she did not protest publicly or in secret, even
in the sanctity of conscience, against the evil of their people come home. Juzgábalo natural
and logical. He could not think think that would be otherwise. Its sociological ideas not yet
advised him to rebel against the verdict of public opinion. Believed in good faith to put on
gloves or a fur coat or hat, I made a act rejected by the divine and human laws. The whispers,
the mocking, were the necessary punishment for this infraction. Hence, their fears and anxieties
every time I went to stand in the theater or on the promenade, and flush the rushing.

Why then, say, Dona Paula is dressed like this? Not be very knowledgeable human heart that such
a question. Dona Paula put on his hat and gloves knowingly that would embarrass him as a guy opens
the cupboard and knowingly sweet docks then they have to flog. Those who have not been reared in
a village, you never know how tasty treat is the hat for an artisan.

Dona Paula was high, dry, awkward. When she had been a good girl, but the years, continuous closure,
which was not seasoned, and especially the struggle that had maintained with the public to
establish their hierarchy, had withered prematurely. Still beautiful black eyes kept enclosed
in a nice face and good features.

The first act came to an end. It was a fantastic melodrama, whose name I remember, where the company
had made all the scenic apparatus that was available. Casserole I was amazed, and welcomed each change
of decoration with loud applause. Pablito Belinchón had happened in Madrid a month last year,
laughed incontestable superiority one appliance with smart winking in front of the stage.
And to prove that the whole thing bored him, ended by turning his back on stage and look to
twins to the local beauties. Each time the skin beautiful Russian glasses pointed one, the girl
suffered a slight shudder, changed position, her hand a tremulous little hair to fix it, smiled
at his mother or his sister for no reason is put serious again, and fixed strongly and decisively
their eyes on the scene. But at the moment the fast rising shyly to those beady crystals that obfuscated.
Finally concluded by blushing. Pablito, satisfied, pointing to another beauty. The known as if they
were her sisters, tuteaba to most of them and many had been boyfriend: but the pen in the
air was not more mobile and changeable in the field he loves. All had to suffer a painful disappointment.
Of late, tired of love to neighbors, had been dedicated to fascinate many outsiders came to
Sarrió, only to abandon, Of course, if they committed the folly of staying in the village
over a month or two.

There are good reasons why Pablito could have his good-natured heart all young Indians and
even the bizarre. He was a young man of twenty-four apuestísimo or twenty years, handsome face
and manly, graceful and elegant figure. Horseback riding and admirably led by a cabriolet or a four-horse
chariot, which no one could do Sarrio more than the drivers. When wearing the baggy pants, the
Pablito seemed skirts, if narrow, was a stork. Came the fashion of high collars, our Pablito was
half the street with his tongue hanging out. Estilábanse low, as taught to sternum.

These and other eminent authority they did so rightly invincible.

Perhaps some will not find entirely justified the dictatorship love of our youth in Sarrio.
We nevertheless confident that the provincial youth who read this story logic and judge plausible.

When
the curtain fell, a hunched old man with long white beard and glasses, came crawling rather
than walking to the stage of Belinchón.

- Don Mateo!

Impossible you missing - said Dona Paula.

- Why, what do you expect at home, Paulita?

- Praying the rosary and sleep - Venturita said.

Don Mateo smiled sweetly, and replied to that impertinence giving her a pat loving in the face.

-
It's true you should do that, my dear ... but what do you want? if
not I go to bed early I sleep ... And then I can not resist the temptation
to see these faces so cute ...

Venturita pouted disdainful which
shone through the satisfaction of being woo.

- If you were even a
cute chick!

- I've been.

- Does how many years?

...

- How bad, how bad is this girl! - Mateo said laughing and undertaking
continuous act a fit of coughing seized him breath for a few moments.

  But,
luckily for them, the gentleman had a respect for Ben's father, and, moreover, was amused with
the spirit of the whole affair.  He therefore let the culprits off pretty easily.

But, when the constables were dismissed, the poor boys had to go through another trial, and
receive sentence, and suffer execution, too, from their own fathers.  Many a rod, I grieve
to say, was worn to the stump on that unlucky night.

As for Ben, he was less afraid of a whipping than of his father's disapprobation.  Mr. Franklin,
as I have mentioned before, was a sagacious man, and also an inflexibly upright one.  He had
read much for a person in his rank of life, and had pondered upon the ways of the world, until
he had gained more wisdom than a whole library of books could have taught him.  Ben had a greater
reverence for his father than for any other person in the world, as well on account of his
spotless integrity as of his practical sense and deep views of things.

Consequently, after being released from the clutches of the law, Ben came into his father's
presence with no small perturbation of mind.

"Benjamin, come hither," began Mr. Franklin, in his customary solemn and weighty tone.

The boy approached and stood before his father's chair, waiting reverently to hear what judgment
this good man would pass upon his late offence.  He felt that now the right and wrong of the
whole matter would be made to appear.

"Benjamin!" said his father, "what could induce you to take property which did not belong to you?"

"Why, father," replied Ben, hanging his head at first, but then lifting eyes to Mr. Franklin's
face, "if it had been merely for my own benefit, I never should have dreamed of it.  But I
knew that the wharf would be a public convenience.  If the owner of the stones should build
a house with them, nobody will enjoy any advantage except himself.  Now, I made use of them
in a way that was for the advantage of many persons.  I thought it right to aim at doing good
to the greatest number."

"My son," said Mr. Franklin, solemnly, "so far as it was in your power, you have done a greater
harm to the public than to the owner of the stones."

"How can that he, father?" asked Ben.

"Because," answered his father, "in building your wharf with stolen materials, you have committed
a moral wrong.  There is no more terrible mistake than to violate what is eternally right for
the sake of a seeming expediency.  Those who act upon such a principle do the utmost in their
power to destroy all that is good in the world." And
this for no other reason than because it was not Mrs. Dona Paula birth. Came from the kind
of cigar. Don Rosendo had had an affair with her being almost a child, the Pablito whom was born.
Still, Don Rosendo was five or six years without marrying or wanting hear about marriage, but
visiting her at home and assisting her with money. Until finally won over by the love child
of the mother, and, above all this, the warnings of his friends, he decided to turn his hand
to Paulina. The population learned of the marriage until after any: that secrecy was kept
to carry out. Since then the life of the cigarette can be divided into several major periods.
The first that lasts a year, ranging from marriage to "mantilla veil." During this time, Belinchón
lady was no less or more in public. On Sunday morning Mass would and shut himself home again. When
he decided to wear the mantle above and go to church eleven, both in the church in the streets
of traffic, peppered looks, and discussed the incident for more than eight days. The second period
lasts three years, includes from "the mantilla veil" to "gloves." View of this ornament in
great hands and red of the former cigar was indescribable excitement in the female element the
neighborhood. On the streets, in church, on visits, asking the ladies greeted: - Have ?...-- you
seen Yeah, yeah, I've seen .-- And I began skinning. Next comes the third period, that lasts
four years and ending "silk dress", which gave almost as much to grumble as gloves, and there was general
outrage Sarrió .-- Tell me, Dolores, what's left and to do? - Doña Dolores lowered his eyes with
a gesture of resignation.


Here he had many opportunities of reading new books and of hearing instructive conversation.
He exercised himself so successfully in writing compositions, that, when no more than thirteen
or fourteen years old, he became a contributor to his brother's newspaper.  Ben was also a
versifier, if not a poet.  He made two doleful ballads,--one about the shipwreck of Captain
Worthilake; and the other about the pirate Black Beard, who, not long before, infested the
American seas.

When Ben's verses were printed, his brother sent him to sell them to the townspeople wet from
the press.  "Buy my ballads!" shouted Benjamin, as he trudged through the streets with a basketful
on his arm.  "Who'll buy a ballad about Black Beard?  A penny apiece! a penny apiece!  Who'll
buy my ballads?"

If one of those roughly composed and rudely printed ballads could be discovered now, it would
be worth more than its weight in gold.

In this way our friend Benjamin spent his boyhood and youth, until, on account of some disagreement
with his brother, he left his native town and went to Philadelphia.  He landed in the latter
city, a homeless and hungry young man, and bought three-pence worth of bread to satisfy his
appetite.  Not knowing where else to go, he entered a Quaker meeting- house, sat down, and
fell fast asleep.  He has not told us whether his slumbers were visited by any dreams.  But
it would have been a strange dream, indeed, and an incredible one, that should have foretold
how great a man he was destined to become, and how much he would be honored in that very city
where he was now friendless and unknown.

So here we finish our story of the childhood of Benjamin Franklin.  One of these days, if you
would know what he was in his manhood, you must read his own works and the history of American
independence.

"Do let us hear a little more of him!" said Edward; "not that I admire him so much as many
other characters; but he interests me, because he was a Yankee boy."

"My dear son," replied Mr. Temple, "it would require a whole volume of talk to tell you all
that is worth knowing about Benjamin Franklin. There is a very pretty anecdote of his flying
a kite in the midst of a thunder-storm, and thus drawing down the lightning from the clouds
and proving that it was the same thing as electricity.  His whole life would be an interesting
story, if we had time to tell it."

"But, pray, dear father, tell us what made him so famous," said George. "I have seen his portrait
a great many tines.  There is a wooden bust of him in one of our streets; and marble ones,
I suppose, in some other places.  And towns, and ships of war, and steamboats, and banks, and
academies, and children are often named after Franklin.  Why should he have grown so very famous?"

"Your question is a reasonable one, George," answered his father.  "I doubt whether Franklin's
philosophical discoveries, important as they were, or even his vast political services, would
have given him all the fame which he acquired.  It appears to me that Poor Richard's Almanac
did more than anything else towards making him familiarly known to the public.  As the writer
of those proverbs which Poor Richard was supposed to utter, Franklin became the counsellor
and household friend of almost every family in America.  Thus it was the humblest of all his
labors that has done the most for his fame."

"I have read some of those proverbs," remarked Edward; "but I do not like them.  They are all
about getting money or saving it."

"Well," said his father, "they were suited to the condition of the country; and their effect,
upon the whole, has doubtless been good, although they teach men but a very small portion of
their duties."

CHAPTER IX.

Hitherto Mr. Temple's narratives had all been about boys and men.  But, the next evening, he
bethought himself that the quiet little Emily would perhaps be glad to hear the story of a
child of her own sex.  He therefore resolved to narrate the youthful adventures of Christina,
of Sweden, who began to be a queen at the age of no more than six years. If we have any little
girls among our readers, they must not suppose that Christina is set before them as a pattern
of what they ought to be. On the contrary, the tale of her life is chiefly profitable as showing
the evil effects of a wrong education, which caused this daughter of a king to be both useless
and unhappy.  Here follows the story.

QUEEN CHRISTINA.

[BORN 1626 DIED 1689]

In the royal palace at Stockholm, the capital city of Sweden, there was horn, in 1626, a little
princess.  The king, her father; gave her the name of Christina, in memory of a Swedish girl
with whom he had been in love.  His own name was Gustavus Adolphus; and he was also called
the Lion of the North, because he had gained greater fame in war than any other prince or general
then alive.

With this valiant king for their commander, the Swedes had made themselves terrible to the
Emperor of Germany and to the king of France, and were looked upon as the chief defence of
the Protestant religion.

The little Christina was by no means a beautiful child.  To confess the truth, she was remarkably
plain.  The queen, her mother, did not love her so much as she ought; partly, perhaps, on account
of Christina's want of beauty, and also because both the king and queen had wished for a son,
who might have gained as great renown in battle as his father had.

The king, however, soon became exceedingly fond of the infant princess. When Christina was
very young she was taken violently sick.  Gustavus Adolphus, who was several hundred miles
from Stockholm, travelled night and day, and never rested until he held the poor child in his
arms.  On her recovery he made a solemn festival, in order to show his joy to the people of
Sweden and express his gratitude to Heaven.  After this event he took his daughter with him
in all the journeys which he made throughout his kingdom.

Christina soon proved herself a bold and sturdy little girl.  When she was two years old, the
king and herself, in the course of a journey, came to the strong fortress of Colmar.  On the
battlements were soldiers clad in steel armor, which glittered in the sunshine.  There were
likewise great cannons, pointing their black months at Gustavus and little Christina, and ready
to belch out their smoke and thunder; for, whenever a king enters a fortress, it is customary
to receive him with a royal salute of artillery.

But the captain of the fortress met Gustavus and his daughter as they were about to enter the
gateway.

"May it please your Majesty," said he, taking off his steel cap and bowing profoundly, "I fear
that, if we receive you with a salute of cannon, the little princess will be frightened almost
to death."

Gustavus looked earnestly at his daughter, and was indeed apprehensive that the thunder of
so many cannon might perhaps throw her into convulsions.  He had almost a mind to tell the
captain to let them enter the fortress quietly, as common people might have done, without all
this head-splitting racket.  But no; this would not do.

"Let them fire," said he, waving his hand.  "Christina is a soldier's daughter, and must learn
to bear the noise of cannon."

So the captain uttered the word of command, and immediately there was a terrible peal of thunder
from the cannon, and such a gush of smoke that it enveloped the whole fortress in its volumes.
But, amid all the din and confusion, Christina was seen clapping her little hands and laughing
in an ecstasy of delight.  Probably nothing ever pleased her father so much as to see that
his daughter promised to be fearless as himself. The mummy in the presidensia. Sit there, mom, or not eat.

And the driving of an arm, caressing it with extreme love, as if to
indemnify years of wandering children who had been his torment.

When night came the National hanging out at home the teacher, as if this visit was a duty of
subordination, the gathering seemed animated. Gallardo, wearing rich sheepskin, as a master
of the field, bareheaded and smoothed queue up to about forehead,
received her mocking banderillero with kindness.

What the fans were saying? What lies circulated?

... How going 'why' of the republic?

- Doodle, give Sebastian a glass of wine.

But the National Sebastian repelled the gift. None of wine he drank. Wine was the culprit the
backwardness of the laboring classes. And all the chat, on hearing this, broke into laughter,
as if said something hilarious I was expecting. Banderillero began to drop from his.

The only one who remained silent, with hostile eyes, was a saddler. Hated National seeing him
as an enemy. Also it was prolific in his fidelity good man, and a swarm of urchins moving in
the tavern around the skirts of the mother. The two smaller had been sponsored by Gallardo and
his wife, joining the sword and banderillero with kinship compadres.
Hypocrite!

Brought home every Sunday to the two godchildren their best baby clothes, to hand besasen the
sponsors, and the pale saddler with indignation each time that the children received a gift of National.
They came to rob own.

Maybe even dreamed of banderillero with that part of the fortune of the sword could reach the
hands of the godchildren. Thief! A man who was not family! ...

When not welcomed with the words of National hostile silence and looks of hatred, trying to Zaher,
once favored the execution of all the nonsense that spread between the people and are a danger
to good people.

El Nacional was ten years older than his master. When it began to deal in capeas, he was already
in gangs banderillero poster and had come from America, after killing bulls in the Plaza de
Lima. Earlier in his career enjoyed a certain popularity, being young and agile. He also had appeared
for a few days as "the torero of the future" and the fans in Seville,
eyes on him, expected to overshadow the slaughter of other lands.

But this was short lived. Returning from his trip to the prestige of nebulae and remote exploits, rushed
the crowd in the Plaza de Toros de Sevilla to kill him. Thousands of people were no input.
But in this time of definitive evidence "lacked heart" as they called the fans. Nailed the flags
with aplomb, as a hard worker and serious does his duty, but to go for the kill, the survival
instinct, stronger than his will, kept him far ahead of the bull, without using the advantages
of his stature and his strong arm.

El Nacional resigned to the highest glory of bullfighting. Banderillero nothing else. Was resigned
to be a journeyman of his art, serving younger ones, to earn a poor
salary pawn to keep the family nest egg and make it possible to establish
a small industry.

His kindness and honest customs were proverbial among the people of queue. The woman he loved his killer,
seeing in him a kind of guardian angel for fidelity of her husband. When in summer, Gallardo,
with all his people, went to a cabaret in any provincial capital,
desirous of revelry and joy after dispatching bulls several runs,
the National remained silent and serious among singers of vaporous
gown face painted as a father of desert in the middle of the courtesans
of Alexandria. 

Not shocked, but was sad thinking about his wife
and the children who were waiting for him in Seville. All defects
and corruptions of the world were for him due to lack of instruction.
Surely, these poor women could not read or write.  Silence being proclaimed, the Chancellor Oxenstiern
arose.

"We desire to know," said he, "whether the people of Sweden will take the daughter of our dead
king, Gustavus Adolphus, to be their queen."

When the chancellor had spoken, an old man, with white hair and in coarse apparel, stood up
in the midst of the assembly.  He was a peasant, Lars Larrson by name, and had spent most of
his life in laboring on a farm.

"Who is this daughter of Gustavus?" asked the old man.  "We do not know her.  Let her be shown
to us."

Then Christina was brought into the hall and placed before the old peasant.  It was strange,
no doubt, to see a child--a little girl of six years old--offered to the Swedes as their ruler
instead of the brave king, her father, who had led then to victory so many times.  Could her
baby fingers wield a sword in war?  Could her childish mind govern the nation wisely in peace?

But the Swedes do not appear to have asked themselves these questions. Old Lars Larrson took
Christina up in his arms and gazed earnestly into her face.

He had known the great Gustavus well; and his heart was touched when he saw the likeness which
the little girl bore to that heroic monarch.

"Yes," cried he, with the tears gushing down his furrowed cheeks; "this is truly the daughter
of our Gustavus!  Here is her father's brow!--here is his piercing eye!  She is his very picture!
This child shall be our queen!"

Then all the proud nobles of Sweden, and the reverend clergy, and the burghers, and the peasants,
knelt down at the child's feet and kissed her hand.

"Long live Christina, Queen of Sweden!" shouted they.

Even after she was a woman grown Christina remembered the pleasure which she felt in seeing
all of hose men at her feet and hearing them acknowledge her as their supreme ruler.  Poor
child! she was yet to learn that power does not insure happiness.  As yet, however, she had
not any real power.  All the public business, it is true, was transacted in her name; but the
kingdom was governed by a number of the most experienced statesmen, who were called a regency.

But it was considered necessary that the little queen, should be present at the public ceremonies,
and should behave just as if she were in reality the ruler of the nation.  When she was seven
years of age, some ambassadors from the Czar of Muscovy came to the Swedish court.  They wore
long beards, and were clad in a strange fashion, with furs and other outlandish ornaments;
and as they were inhabitants of a half- civilized country, they did not behave like other people.
The Chancellor Oxenstiern was afraid that the young queen would burst out a laughing at the
first sight of these queer ambassadors, or else that she would be frightened by their unusual
aspect.

"Why should I be frightened?" said the little queen.  "And do you suppose that I have no better
manners than to laugh?  Only tell me how I must behave, and I will do it."

Accordingly, the Muscovite ambassadors were introduced; and Christina received them and answered
their speeches with as much dignity and propriety as if sho had been a grown woman.

All this time, though Christina was now a queen, you must not suppose that she was left to
act as she pleased.  She had a preceptor, named John Mathias, who was a very learned man and
capable of instructing her in all the branches of science.  But there was nobody to teach her
the delicate graces and gentle virtues of a woman.  She was surrounded almost entirely by men,
and had learned to despise the society of her own sex.  At the age of nine years she was separated
from her mother, whom the Swedes did not consider a proper person to be intrusted with the
charge of her.  No little girl who sits by a New England fireside has cause to envy Christina
in the royal palace at Stockholm.

Yet she made great progress in her studies.  She learned to read the classical authors of Greece
and Rome, and became a great admirer of the heroes and poets of old times. 

JOHN .-- All covered us, daughter.

BENITO .-- On the back I stalled the water to the master channel.

CAPACHO [# apart #].-- I'm dry as a rush.

GOVERNOR [aside #].--¿ # What the hell can this be, yet I have not
touched a drop, where all drown?

# If I begin to think badly of my parents' honesty. #

CAPACHO .-- Fresh is the Jordan River holy water, and though I covered
what I could still reached a little mustache, and bet that I have
a golden blond.

BENITO .-- And fifty times worse.

CHERIN .-- There are two dozen bears, lions rampant and beekeepers, all living held; that, while great,
will not give any grief, and even make strength of Hercules, with
drawn swords.

JOHN .-- Come, sir author, body of us! Agora What we want to fill the house of bears and lions?

BENITO .-- See what nightingales and larks Tontonelo sends us but
lions and dragons!

Lord author, figures go gentle, or here we are content with the sights, and God's guidance, and do
not stop in town one more time.

# # .-- Mr. Benito Roasted Cabbage,
let out the bear and lions, even for us, and topdressing very happy.

JOHN
.-- Well, my dear, before you scared of mice, "and now ask for bears
and lions?

# # .-- Toast Everything new deferred, father. "

CHIRINOS
.-- That girl that now seems so gallant and so composed, is called
Herodias whose dance hit in the head of the Precursor prize of life
if he helps her dance wonderful summer.

BENITO .-- The body of the
world itself! it contained beautiful, peaceful and bright. Cabbage
Sobrino, You who know the pretext of castanets, and will help her
party of four layers.
Only a few more words need be said about her; for it is neither pleasant nor profitable to
think of many things that she did after she grew to be a woman.

When she had worn the crown a few years, she began to consider it beneath her dignity to be
called a queen, because the name implied that she belonged to the weaker sex.  She therefore
caused herself to be proclaimed KING; thus declaring to the world that she despised her own
sex and was desirous of being ranked among men.  But in the twenty- eighth year of her age
Christina grew tired of royalty, and resolved to be neither a king nor a queen any longer.
She took the crown from her head with her own hands, and ceased to be the ruler of Sweden.
The people did not greatly regret her abdication; for she had governed them ill, and had taken
much of their property to supply her extravagance.

Having thus given up her hereditary crown, Christina left Sweden and travelled over many of
the countries of Europe.  Everywhere she was received with great ceremony, because she was
the daughter of the renowned Gustavus, and had herself been a powerful queen.  Perhaps you
would like to know something about her personal appearance in the latter part of time life.
She is described as wearing a man's vest, a short gray petticoat, embroidered with gold and
silver, and a black wig, which was thrust awry upon her head.  She wore no gloves, and so seldom
washed her hands that nobody could fell what had been their original color.  In this strange
dress, and, I suppose, without washing her hands or face, she visited the magnificent court
of Louis XIV. Snakes of the mountain with a strange voice singing in this
silence. Singing, yes sir. There was no one discussed it at Lobato, I had heard thousand times,
and doubt this call was a liar, exposing them to feel the weight of his paws. And as they sang the
reptiles, spoken by the bulls, only that he had failed to penetrate all the mysteries of their
language. Were like Christians, but walked on all fours and had horns. Seen them awake when
the dawn came. Joyful leaping as children, toys and cross-believe rushing their horns, trying
to mount each other, with a noisy joy, as if he welcomed the presence of the sun, which is the
glory of God.


"Christina was a sad specimen of womankind indeed," said Mrs. Temple. "But it is very possible
for a woman to have a strong mind, and to be fitted for the active business of life, without
losing any of her natural delicacy.  Perhaps some time or other Mr. Temple will tell you a
story of such a woman."

It was now time for Edward to be left to repose.  His brother George shook him heartily by
the hand, and hoped, as he had hoped twenty times before, that tomorrow or the next day Ned's
eyes would be strong enough to look the sun right in the face.

"Thank you, George," replied Edward, smiling; "but I am not half so impatient as at first.
If my bodily eyesight were as good as yours, perhaps I could not see things so distinctly with
my mind's eye. Hello friends, excusing his delay, while his eyes were going
to Gallardo. The manager gave her mare espolazo to approach and make presentation, but Dona
Sol, ahead of him, approached the bullfighter.

Gallardo was embarrassed by the presence of the lady. What a woman! What would he say it? ...

He
saw that she held out her hand, a fine hand that smelled like heaven,
and precipitation Stunning, just squeeze its paw knew that overthrew
beasts.  "I cannot see any of your faces.  What would it
signify to see all the famous people in the world, if I must be blind to the faces that I love?"

"You must try to see us with your heart, my dear child," said his mother.

Edward went to bed somewhat dispirited; but, quickly falling asleep, was visited with such
a pleasant dream of the sunshine and of his dearest friends that he felt the happier for it
all the next day.  And we hope to find him still happy when we meet again.

