Across the flat the wind drove in fury. Reflection, thought, and reason were beginning to leave
her. She was crying to herself quietly as she used to cry when she lost herself, a mere child,
riding among the hills. She was praying meaningless words. Snow purred softly on her cheeks.
The cold was soothing her senses. Unable at last to keep her seat on the horse, she stopped
him, slipped stiffly to the ground, and, struggling through the wind as she held fast to the
bridle and the horn, half walked and half ran to start the blood through her benumbed veins.
She struggled until she could drag her mired feet no farther, and tried to draw herself back
into the saddle. It was almost beyond her. She sobbed and screamed at her helplessness. At
last she managed to climb flounderingly back into her seat, and, bending her stiffened arms
to Jim's neck, she moaned and cried to him. When again she could hold her seat no longer, she
fell to the horse's side, dragged herself along in the frozen slush, and, screaming with the
pain of her freezing hands, drew herself up into the saddle.

She knew that she dare not venture this again--that if she did so she could never remount.
She felt now that she should never live to reach Medicine Bend. She rode on and on and on--would
it never end? She begged God to send a painless death to those she rode to save, and when the
prayer passed her failing senses a new terror awakened her, for she found herself falling out
of the saddle. With excruciating torment she recovered her poise. Reeling from side to side,
she fought the torpor away. Her mind grew clearer and her tears had ceased. She prayed for
a light. The word caught between her stiffened lips and she mumbled it till she could open
them wide and scream it out. Then came a sound like the beating of great drums in her ears.
It was the crash of Jim's hoofs on the river bridge, and she was in Medicine Bend.

A horse, galloping low and heavily, slued through the snow from Fort Street into Boney, and,
where it had so often stopped before, dashed up on the sidewalk in front of the little shop.
The shock was too much for its unconscious rider, and, shot headlong from her saddle, Dicksie
was flung bruised and senseless against Marion's door.

CHAPTER XLII

AT THE DOOR

She woke in a dream of hoofs beating at her brain. Distracted words fell from her lips, and
when she opened her swollen eyes and saw those about her she could only scream.

Marion had called up the stable, but the stablemen could only tell her that Dicksie's horse,
in terrible condition, had come in riderless. While Barnhardt, the railway surgeon, at the
bedside administered restoratives, Marion talked with him of Dicksie's sudden and mysterious
coming. Dicksie, lying in pain and quite conscious, heard all, but, unable to explain, moaned
in her helplessness. She heard Marion at length tell the doctor that McCloud was out of town,
and the news seemed to bring back her senses. Then, rising in the bed, while the surgeon and
Marion coaxed her to lie down, she clutched at their arms and, looking from one to the other,
told her story. When it was done she swooned, but she woke to hear voices at the door of the
shop. She heard as if she dreamed, but at the door the words were dread reality. Sinclair had
made good his word, and had come out of the storm with a summons upon Marion and it was the
surgeon who threw open the door and saw Sinclair standing in the snow.

No man in Medicine Bend knew Sinclair more thoroughly or feared him less than Barnhardt. No
man could better meet him or speak to him with less of hesitation. Sinclair, as he faced Barnhardt,
was not easy in spite of his dogged self-control; and he was standing, much to his annoyance,
in the glare of an arc-light that swung across the street in front of the shop. He was well
aware that no such light had ever swung within a block of the shop before and in it he saw
the hand of Whispering Smith. The light was unexpected, Barnhardt was a surprise, and even
the falling snow, which protected him from being seen twenty feet away, angered him. He asked
curtly who was ill, and without awaiting an answer asked for his wife.

The surgeon eyed him coldly. "Sinclair, what are you doing in Medicine Bend? Have you come
to surrender yourself?"

"Surrender myself? Yes, I'm ready any time to surrender myself. Take me along yourself, Barnhardt,
if you think I've done worse than any man would that has been hounded as I've been hounded.
I want to see my wife."

"Sinclair, you can't see your wife."

"What's the matter--is she sick?"

"No, but you can't see her."

"Who says I can't see her?"

"I say so."

Sinclair swept the ice furiously from his beard and his right hand fell to his hip as he stepped
back. "You've turned against me too, have you, you gray-haired wolf? Can't see her! Get out
of that door."

The surgeon pointed his finger at the murderer. "No, I won't get out of this door. Shoot, you
coward! Shoot an unarmed man. You will not live to get a hundred feet away. This place is watched
for you; you could not have got within a hundred yards of it to-night except for this snow."
Barnhardt pointed through the storm. "Sinclair, you will hang in the court-house square, and
I will take the last beat of your pulse with these fingers, and when I pronounce you dead they
will cut you down. You want to see your wife. You want to kill her. Don't lie; you want to
kill her. You were heard to say as much to-night at the Dunning ranch. You were watched and
tracked, and you are expected and looked for here. Your best friends have gone back on you.
Ay, curse again and over again, but that will not put Ed Banks on his feet."

Sinclair stamped with frenzied oaths. "You're too hard on me," he cried, clenching his hands.
"I say you're too hard. You've heard one side of it. Is that the way you put judgment on a
man that's got no friends left because they start a new lie on him every day? Who is it that's
watching me? Let them stand out like men in the open. If they want me, let them come like men
and take me!"

"Sinclair, this storm gives you a chance to get away; take it. Bad as you are, there are men
in Medicine Bend who knew you when you were a man. Don't stay here for some of them to sit
on the jury that hangs you. If you can get away, get away. If I were your friend--and God knows
whom you can call friend in Medicine Bend to-night--I couldn't say more. Get away before it
is too late."

He was never again seen alive in Medicine Bend. They tracked him next day over every foot of
ground he had covered. They found where he had left his spent horse and where afterward he
had got the fresh one. They learned how he had eluded all the picketing planned for precisely
such a contingency, got into the Wickiup, got upstairs and burst open the very door of McCloud's
room. But Dicksie had on her side that night One greater than her invincible will or her faithful
horse. McCloud was two hundred miles away.

Barnhardt lost no time in telephoning the Wickiup that Sinclair was in town, but within an
hour, while the two women were still under the surgeon's protection, a knock at the cottage
door gave them a second fright. Barnhardt answered the summons. He opened the door and, as
the man outside paused to shake the snow off his hat, the surgeon caught him by the shoulder
and dragged into the house Whispering Smith.

Picking the icicles from his hair, Smith listened to all that Barnhardt said, his eyes roving
meantime over everything within the room and mentally over many things outside it. He congratulated
Barnhardt, and when Marion came into the room he apologized for the snow he had brought in.
Dicksie heard his voice and cried out from the bedroom. They could not keep her away, and she
ran out to catch his hands and plead with him not to go away. He tried to assure her that the
danger was over; that guards were now outside everywhere, and would be until morning. But Dicksie
clung to him and would take no refusal.

Whispering Smith looked at her in amazement and in admiration. "You are captain to-night, Miss
Dicksie, by Heaven. If you say the word I'll lie here on a rug till morning. But that man will
not be back to-night. You are a queen. If I had a mountain girl that would do as much as that
for me I would----"

"What would you do?" asked Marion.

"Say good-by to this accursed country forever."

CHAPTER XLIII

CLOSING IN

In the morning the sun rose with a mountain smile. The storm had swept the air till the ranges
shone blue and the plain sparkled under a cloudless sky. Bob Scott and Wickwire, riding at
daybreak, picked up a trail on the Fence River road. A consultation was held at the bridge,
and within half an hour Whispering Smith, with unshaken patience, was in the saddle and following
it.

With him were Kennedy and Bob Scott. Sinclair had ridden into the lines, and Whispering Smith,
with his best two men, meant to put it up to him to ride out. They meant now to get him, with
a trail or without, and were putting horseflesh against horseflesh and craft against craft.

At the forks of the Fence they picked up Wickwire, Kennedy taking him on the up road, while
Scott with Whispering Smith crossed to the Crawling Stone. When Smith and Scott reached the
Frenchman they parted to cover in turn each of the trails by which it is possible to get out
of the river country toward the Park and Williams Cache.

By four o'clock in the afternoon they had all covered the ground so well that the four were
able to make their rendezvous on the big Fence divide, south of Crawling Stone Valley. They
then found, to their disappointment, that, widely separated as they had been, both parties
were following trails they believed to be good. They shot a steer, tagged it, ate dinner and
supper in one, and separated under Whispering Smith's counsel that both the trails be followed
into the next morning--in the belief that one of them would run out or that the two would run
together. At noon the next day Scott rode through the hills from the Fence, and Kennedy with
Wickwire came through Two Feather Pass from the Frenchman with the report that the game had
left their valleys.

Without rest they pushed on. At the foot of the Mission Mountains they picked up the tracks
of a party of three horsemen. Twice within ten miles afterward the men they were following
crossed the river. Each time their trail, with some little difficulty, was found again. At
a little ranch in the Mission foothills, Kennedy and Scott, leaving Wickwire with Whispering
Smith, took fresh horses and pushed ahead as far as they could ride before dark, but they brought
back news. The trail had split again, with one man riding alone to the left, while two had
taken the hills to the right, heading for Mission Pass and the Cache. With Gene Johnson and
Bob at the mouth of the Cache there was little fear for that outlet. The turn to the left was
the unexpected. Over the little fire in the ranch kitchen where they ate supper, the four men
were in conference twenty minutes. It was decided that Scott and Kennedy should head for the
Mission Pass, while Whispering Smith, with Wickwire to trail with him, should undertake to
cut off, somewhere between Fence River and the railroad, the man who had gone south, the man
believed to be Sinclair. It was a late moon, and when Scott and Kennedy saddled their horses
Whispering Smith and Wickwire were asleep.

With the cowboy, Whispering Smith started at daybreak. No one saw them again for two days.
During those two days and nights they were in the saddle almost continuously. For every mile
the man ahead of them rode they were forced to ride two miles and often three. Late in the
second night they crossed the railroad, and the first word from them came in long despatches
sent by Whispering Smith to Medicine Bend and instructions to Kennedy and Scott in the north,
which were carried by hard riders straight to Deep Creek.

On the morning of the third day Dicksie Dunning, who had gone home from Medicine Bend and who
had been telephoning Marion and George McCloud two days for news, was trying to get Medicine
Bend again on the telephone when Puss came in to say that a man at the kitchen door wanted
to see her.

"Who is it, Puss?"

"I d'no, Miss Dicksie; 'deed, I never seen him b'fore."

Dicksie walked around on the porch to the kitchen. A dust-covered man sitting on a limp horse
threw back the brim of his hat as he touched it, lifted himself stiffly out of the saddle,
and dropped to the ground. He laughed at Dicksie's startled expression. "Don't you know me?"
he asked, putting out his hand. It was Whispering Smith.

He was a fearful sight. Stained from head to foot with alkali, saddle-cramped and bent, his
face scratched and stained, he stood with a smiling appeal in his bloodshot eyes.

Dicksie gave a little uncertain cry, clasped her hands, and, with a scream, threw her arms
impulsively around his neck. "Oh, I did not know you! What has happened? I am so glad to see
you! Tell me what has happened. Are you hurt?"

He stammered like a school-boy. "Nothing has happened. What's this? Don't cry; nothing at all
has happened. I didn't realize what a tramp I look or I shouldn't have come. But I was only
a mile away and I had heard nothing for four days from Medicine Bend. And how are you? Did
your ride make you ill? No? By Heaven, you are a game girl. That was a ride! How are they all?
Where's your cousin? In town, is he? I thought I might get some news if I rode up, and oh,
Miss Dicksie--jiminy! some coffee. But I've got only two minutes for it all, only two minutes;
do you think Puss has any on the stove?"

Dicksie with coaxing and pulling got him into the kitchen, and Puss tumbled over herself to
set out coffee and rolls. He showed himself ravenously hungry, and ate with a simple directness
that speedily accounted for everything in sight. "You have saved my life. Now I am going, and
thank you a thousand times. There, by Heaven, I've forgotten Wickwire! He is with me--waiting
down in the cottonwoods at the fork. Could Puss put up a lunch I could take to him? He hasn't
had a scrap for twenty-four hours. But, Dicksie, your tramp is a hummer! I've tried to ride
him down and wear him out and lose him, and, by Heaven, he turns up every time and has been
of more use to me than two men."

She put her hand on Whispering Smith's arm. "I told him if he would stop drinking he could
be foreman here next season." Puss was putting up the lunch. "Why need you hurry away?" persisted
Dicksie. "I've a thousand things to say."

He looked at her amiably. "This is really a case of must."

"Then, tell me, what favor may I do for you?" She looked appealingly into his tired eyes. "I
want to do something for you. I must! don't deny me. Only, what shall it be?"

"Something for me? What can I say? You'll be kind to Marion--I shouldn't have to ask that.
What can I ask? Stop! there is one thing. I've got a poor little devil of an orphan up in the
Deep Creek country. Du Sang murdered his father. You are rich and generous, Dicksie; do something
for him, will you? Kennedy or Bob Scott will know all about him. Bring him down here, will
you, and see he doesn't go to the dogs? You're a good girl. What's this, crying? Now you are
frightened. Things are not so bad as that. You want to know everything--I see it in your eyes.
Very well, let's trade. You tell me everything and I'll tell you everything. Now then: Are
you engaged?"

They were standing under the low porch with the sunshine breaking through the trees. She turned
away her face and threw all of her happiness into a laugh. "I won't tell."

"Oh, that's enough. You have told!" declared Whispering Smith. "I knew--why, of course I knew--but
I wanted to make you own up. Well, here's the way things are. Sinclair has run us all over
God's creation for two days to give his pals a chance to break into Williams Cache to get the
Tower W money they left with Rebstock. For a fact, we have ridden completely around Sleepy
Cat and been down in the Spanish Sinks since I saw you. He doesn't want to leave without the
money, and doesn't know it is in Kennedy's hands, and can't get into the Cache to find out.
Now the three--whoever the other two are--and Sinclair--are trying to join forces somewhere
up this valley, and Kennedy, Scott, Wickwire, and I are after them; and every outlet is watched,
and it must all be over, my dear, before sunset to-night. Isn't that fine? I mean to have the
thing wound up somehow. Don't look worried."

"Do not--do not let him kill you," she cried with a sob.

"He will not kill me; don't be afraid."

"I am afraid. Remember what your life is to all of us!"

"Then, of course, I've got to think of what it is to myself--being the only one I've got. Sometimes
I don't think much of it; but when I get a welcome like this it sets me up. If I can once get
out of this accursed man-slaughtering business, Dicksie--How old are you? Nineteen? Well, you've
got the finest chap in all these mountains, and George McCloud has the finest----"

With a bubbling laugh she shook her finger at him. "Now you are caught. Say the finest woman
in these mountains if you dare! Say the finest woman!"

"The finest woman of nineteen in all creation!" He swung with a laugh into the saddle and waved
his hat. She watched him ride down the road and around the hill. When he reappeared she was
still looking and he was galloping along the lower road. A man rode out at the fork to meet
him and trotted with him over the bridge. Riding leisurely across the creek, their broad hats
bobbing unevenly in the sunshine, they spurred swiftly past the grove of quaking asps, and
in a moment were lost beyond the trees.

CHAPTER XLIV

CRAWLING STONE WASH

Where the Little Crawling Stone River tears out of the Mission Mountains it has left a grayish-white
gap that may be seen for many miles. This is the head of the North Crawling Stone Valley. Twenty
miles to the right the big river itself bursts through the Mission hills in the canyon known
as the Box. Between the confluence of Big and Little Crawling Stone, and on the east side of
Little Crawling Stone, lies a vast waste. Standing in the midst of this frightful eruption
from the heart of the mountains, one sees, as far as the eye can reach, a landscape utterly
forbidding. North for sixty miles lie the high chains of the Mission range, and a cuplike configuration
of the mountains close to the valley affords a resting-place for the deepest snows of winter
and a precipitous escape for the torrents of June. Here, when the sun reaches its summer height
or a sweet-grass wind blows soft or a cloudburst above the peaks strikes the southerly face
of the range, winter unfrocks in a single night. A glacier of snow melts within twenty-four
hours into a torrent of lava and bursts with incredible fury from a thousand gorges.

When this happens nothing withstands. Whatever lies in the path of the flood is swept from
the face of the earth. The mountains, assailed in a moment with the ferocity of a hundred storms,
are ripped and torn like hills of clay. The frosted scale of the granite, the desperate root
of the cedar, the poised nest of the eagle, the clutch of the crannied vine, the split and
start of the mountainside, are all as one before the June thaw. At its height Little Crawling
Stone, with a head of forty feet, is a choking flood of rock. Mountains, torn and bleeding,
vomit bowlders of thirty, sixty, a hundred tons like pebbles upon the valley. Even there they
find no permanent resting-place. Each succeeding year sees them torn groaning from their beds
in the wash. New masses of rock are hurled upon them, new waters lift them in fresh caprice,
and the crash and the grinding echo in the hills like a roar of mountain thunder.

Where the wash covers the valley nothing lives; the fertile earth has long been buried under
the mountain débris. It supports no plant life beyond the scantiest deposit of weed-plant seed,
and the rocky scurf, spreading like a leprosy over many miles, scars the face of the green
earth. This is the Crawling Stone wash. Exhausted by the fury of its few yearly weeks of activity,
Little Crawling Stone runs for the greater part of the year a winding, shallow stream through
a bed of whitened bowlders where lizards sun themselves and trout lurk in shaded pools.

When Whispering Smith and his companions were fairly started on the last day of their ride,
it was toward this rift in the Mission range that the trail led them. Sinclair, with consummate
cleverness, had rejoined his companions; but the attempt to get into the Cache, and his reckless
ride into Medicine Bend, had reduced their chances of escape to a single outlet, and that they
must find up Crawling Stone Valley. The necessity of it was spelled in every move the pursued
men had made for twenty-four hours. They were riding the pick of mountain horseflesh and covering
their tracks by every device known to the high country. Behind them, made prudent by unusual
danger, rode the best men the mountain division could muster for the final effort to bring
them to account. The fast riding of the early week had given way to the pace of caution. No
trail sign was overlooked, no point of concealment directly approached, no hiding-place left
unsearched.

The tension of a long day of this work was drawing to a close when the sun set and left the
big wash in the shadow of the mountains. On the higher ground to the right, Kennedy and Scott
were riding where they could command the gullies of the precipitous left bank of the river.
High on the left bank itself, worming his way like a snake from point to point of concealment
through the scanty brush of the mountainside, crawled Wickwire, commanding the pockets in the
right bank. Closer to the river on the right and following the trail itself over shale and
rock and between scattered bowlders, Whispering Smith, low on his horse's neck, rode slowly.

It was almost too dark to catch the slight discolorations where pebbles had been disturbed
on a flat surface or the calk of a horseshoe had slipped on the uneven face of a ledge, and
he had halted under an uplift to wait for Wickwire on the distant left to advance, when, half
a mile below him, a horseman crossing the river rode slowly past a gap in the rocks and disappeared
below the next bend. He was followed in a moment by a second rider and a third. Whispering
Smith knew he had not been seen. He had flushed the game, and, wheeling his horse, rode straight
up the river-bank to high ground, where he could circle around widely below them. They had
slipped between his line and Wickwire's, and were doubling back, following the dry bed of the
stream. It was impossible to recall Kennedy and Scott without giving an alarm, but by a quick
détour he could at least hold the quarry back for twenty minutes with his rifle, and in that
time Kennedy and Scott could come up.

Less than half an hour of daylight remained. If the outlaws could slip down the wash and out
into the Crawling Stone Valley they had every chance of getting away in the night; and if the
third man should be Barney Rebstock, Whispering Smith knew that Sinclair thought only of escape.
Smith alone, of their pursuers, could now intercept them, but a second hope remained: on the
left, Wickwire was high enough to command every turn in the bed of the river. He might see
them and could force them to cover with his rifle even at long range. Casting up the chances,
Whispering Smith, riding faster over the uneven ground than anything but sheer recklessness
would have prompted, hastened across the waste. His rifle lay in his hand, and he had pushed
his horse to a run. A single fearful instinct crowded now upon the long strain of the week.
A savage fascination burned like a fever in his veins, and he meant that they should not get
away. Taking chances that would have shamed him in cooler moments, he forced his horse at the
end of the long ride to within a hundred paces of the river, threw his lines, slipped like
a lizard from the saddle, and, darting with incredible swiftness from rock to rock, gained
the water's edge.

From up the long shadows of the wash there came the wail of an owl. From it he knew that Wickwire
had seen them and was warning him, but he had anticipated the warning and stood below where
the hunted men must ride. He strained his eyes over the waste of rock above. For one half-hour
of daylight he would have sold, in that moment, ten years of his life. What could he do if
they should be able to secrete themselves until dark between him and Wickwire? Gliding under
cover of huge rocks up the dry watercourse, he reached a spot where the floods had scooped
a long, hollow curve out of a soft ledge in the bank, leaving a stretch of smooth sand on the
bed of the stream. At the upper point great bowlders pushed out in the river. He could not
inspect the curve from the spot he had gained without reckless exposure, but he must force
the little daylight left to him. Climbing completely over the lower point, he advanced cautiously,
and from behind a sheltering spur stepped out upon an overhanging table of rock and looked
across the river-bottom. Three men had halted on the sand within the curve. Two lay on their
rifles under the upper point, a hundred and twenty paces from Whispering Smith. The third man,
Seagrue, less than fifty yards away, had got off his horse and was laying down his rifle, when
the hoot-owl screeched again and he looked uneasily back. They had chosen for their halt a
spot easily defended, and needed only darkness to make them safe, when Smith, stepping out
into plain sight, threw forward his hand.

They heard his sharp call to pitch up, and the men under the point jumped. Seagrue had not
yet taken his hand from his rifle. He threw it to his shoulder. As closely together as two
fingers of the right hand can be struck twice in the palm of the left, two rifle-shots cracked
across the wash. Two bullets passed so close in flight they might have struck. One cut the
dusty hair from Smith's temple and slit the brim of his hat above his ear; the other struck
Seagrue under the left eye, ploughed through the roof of his mouth, and, coming out below his
ear, splintered the rock at his back.

The shock alone would have staggered a bullock, but Seagrue, laughing, came forward pumping
his gun. Sinclair, at a hundred and twenty yards, cut instantly into the fight, and the ball
from his rifle creased the alkali that crusted Whispering Smith's unshaven cheek. As he fired
he sprang to cover.

For Seagrue and Smith there was no cover: for one or both it was death in the open and Seagrue,
with his rifle at his cheek, walked straight into it. Taking for a moment the fire of the three
guns, Whispering Smith stood, a perfect target, outlined against the sky. They whipped the
dust from his coat, tore the sleeve from his wrist, and ripped the blouse collar from his neck;
but he felt no bullet shock. He saw before him only the buckle of Seagrue's belt forty paces
away, and sent bullet after bullet at the gleam of brass between the sights. Both men were
using high-pressure guns, and the deadly shock of the slugs made Seagrue twitch and stagger.
The man was dying as he walked. Smith's hand was racing with the lever, and had a cartridge
jammed, the steel would have snapped like a match.

It was beyond human endurance to support the leaden death. The little square of brass between
the sights wavered. Seagrue stumbled, doubled on his knees, and staggering plunged loosely
forward on the sand. Whispering Smith threw his fire toward the bowlder behind which Sinclair
and Barney Rebstock had disappeared.

Suddenly he realized that the bullets from the point were not coming his way. He was aware
of a second rifle-duel above the bend. Wickwire, worming his way down the stream, had uncovered
Sinclair and young Rebstock from behind. A yell between the shots rang across the wash, and
the cringing figure of a man ran out toward Whispering Smith with his hands high in the air,
and pitched headlong on the ground. It was the skulker, Barney Rebstock, driven out by Wickwire's
fire.

The, shooting ceased. Silence fell upon the gloom of the dusk. Then came a calling between
Smith and Wickwire, and a signalling of pistol-shots for their companions. Kennedy and Bob
Scott dashed down toward the river-bed on their horses. Seagrue lay on his face. Young Rebstock
sat with his hands around his knees on the sand. Above him at some distance, Wickwire and Smith
stood before a man who leaned against the sharp cheek of the bowlder at the point. In his hands
his rifle was held across his lap just as he had dropped on his knee to fire. He had never
moved after he was struck. His head, drooping a little, rested against the rock, and his hat
lay on the sand; his heavy beard had sunk into his chest and he kneeled in the shadow, asleep.
Scott and Kennedy knew him. In the mountains there was no double for Murray Sinclair.

When he jumped behind the point to pick Whispering Smith off the ledge he had laid himself
directly under Wickwire's fire across the wash. The first shot of the cowboy at two hundred
yards had passed, as he knelt, through both temples.

They laid him at Seagrue's side. The camp was made beside the dead men in the wash. "You had
better not take him to Medicine Bend," said Whispering Smith, sitting late with Kennedy before
the dying fire. "It would only mean that much more unpleasant talk and notoriety for her. The
inquest can be held on the Frenchman. Take him to his own ranch and telegraph the folks in
Wisconsin--God knows whether they will want to hear. But his mother is there yet. But if half
what Barney has told to-night is true it would be better if no one ever heard."

CHAPTER XLV

BACK TO THE MOUNTAINS

In the cottage in Boney Street, one year later, two women were waiting. It was ten o'clock
at night.

"Isn't it a shame to be disappointed like this?" complained Dicksie, pushing her hair impatiently
back. "Really, poor George is worked to death. He was to be in at six o'clock, Mr. Lee said,
and here it is ten, and all your beautiful dinner spoiled. Marion, are you keeping something
from me? Look me in the eye. Have you heard from Gordon Smith?"

"No, Dicksie."

"Not since he left the mountains a year ago?"

"Not since he left the mountains a year ago."

Dicksie, sitting forward in her chair, bent her eyes upon the fire. "It is so strange. I wonder
where he is to-night. How he loves you, Marion! He told me everything when he said good-by.
He made me promise not to tell then; but I didn't promise to keep it forever."

Marion smiled. "A year isn't forever, Dicksie."

"Well, it's pretty near forever when you are in love," declared Dicksie energetically. "I know
just how he felt," she went on in a quieter tone. "He felt that all the disagreeable excitement
and talk we had here then bore heaviest on you. He said if he stayed in Medicine Bend the newspapers
never would cease talking and people never would stop annoying you--and you know George did
say they were asking to have passenger trains held here just so people could see Whispering
Smith. And, Marion, think of it, he actually doesn't know yet that George and I are married!
How could we notify him without knowing where he was? And he doesn't know that trains are running
up the Crawling Stone Valley. Mercy! a year goes like an hour when you're in love, doesn't
it? George said he knew we should hear from him within six months--and George has never yet
been mistaken excepting when he said I should grow to like the railroad business--and now it
is a year and no news from him." Dicksie sprang from her chair. "I am going to call up Mr.
Rooney Lee and just demand my husband! I think Mr. Lee handles trains shockingly every time
George tries to get home like this on Saturday nights--now don't you? And passenger trains
ought to get out of the way, anyway, when a division superintendent is trying to get home.
What difference does it make to a passenger, I'd like to know, whether he is a few hours less
or longer in getting to California or Japan or Manila or Hongkong or Buzzard's Gulch, provided
he is safe--and you know there has not been an accident on the division for a year, Marion.
There's a step now. I'll bet that's George!"

The door opened and it was George.

"Oh, honey!" cried Dicksie softly, waving her arms as she stood an instant before she ran to
him. "But haven't I been a-waitin' for you!"

"Too bad! and, Marion," he exclaimed, turning without releasing his wife from his arms, "how
can I ever make good for all this delay? Oh, yes, I've had dinner. Never, for Heaven's sake,
wait dinner for me! But wait, both of you, till you hear the news!"

Dicksie kept her hands on his shoulders. "You have heard from Whispering Smith!"

"I have."

"I knew it!"

"Wait till I get it straight. Mr. Bucks is here--I came in with him in his car. He has news
of Whispering Smith. One of our freight-traffic men in the Puget Sound country, who has been
in a hospital in Victoria, learned by the merest accident that Gordon Smith was lying in the
same hospital with typhoid fever."

Marion rose swiftly. "Then the time has come, thank God, when I can do something for him; and
I am going to him to-night!"

"Fine!" cried McCloud. "So am I, and that is why I'm late."

"Then I am going, too," exclaimed Dicksie solemnly.

"Do you mean it?" asked her husband. "Shall we let her, Marion? Mr. Bucks says I am to take
his car and take Barnhardt, and keep the car there till I can bring Gordon back. Mr. Bucks
and his secretary will ride to-night as far as Bear Dance with us, and in the morning they
join Mr. Glover there." McCloud looked at his watch. "If you are both going, can you be ready
by twelve o'clock for the China Mail?"

"We can be ready in an hour," declared Dicksie, throwing her arm half around Marion's neck,
"can't we, Marion?"

"I can be ready in thirty minutes."

"Then, by Heaven--" McCloud studied his watch.

"What is it, George?"

"We won't wait for the midnight train. We will take an engine, run special to Green River,
overhaul the Coast Limited, and save a whole day."

"George, pack your suit-case--quick, dear; and you, too, Marion; suit-cases are all we can
take," cried Dicksie, pushing her husband toward the bedroom. "I'll telephone Rooney Lee for
an engine myself right away. Dear me, it is kind of nice, to be able to order up a train when
you want one in a hurry, isn't it, Marion? Perhaps I shall come to like it if they ever make
George a vice-president."

In half an hour they had joined Bucks in his car, and Bill Dancing was piling the baggage into
the vestibule. Bucks was sitting down to coffee. Chairs had been provided at the table, and
after the greetings, Bucks, seating Marion Sinclair at his right and Barnhardt and McCloud
at his left, asked Dicksie to sit opposite and pour the coffee. "You are a railroad man's wife
now and you must learn to assume responsibility."

McCloud looked apprehensive. "I am afraid she will be assuming the whole division if you encourage
her too much, Mr. Bucks."

"Marrying a railroad man," continued Bucks, pursuing his own thought, "is as bad as marrying
into the army; if you have your husband half the time you are lucky. Then, too, in the railroad
business your husband may have to be set back when the traffic falls off. It's a little light
at this moment, too. How should you take it if we had to put him on a freight train for a while,
Mrs. McCloud?"

"Oh, Mr. Bucks!"

"Or suppose he should be promoted and should have to go to headquarters--some of us are getting
old, you know."

"Really," Dicksie looked most demure as she filled the president's cup, "really, I often say
to Mr. McCloud that I can not believe Mr. Bucks is president of this great road. He always
looks to me to be the youngest man on the whole executive staff. Two lumps of sugar, Mr. Bucks?"

The bachelor president rolled his eyes as he reached for his cup. "Thank you, Mrs. McCloud,
only one after that." He looked toward Marion. "All I can say is that if Mrs. McCloud's husband
had married her two years earlier he might have been general manager by this time. Nothing
could hold a man back, even a man of his modesty, whose wife can say as nice things as that.
By the way, Mrs. Sinclair, does this man keep you supplied with transportation?"

"Oh, I have my annual, Mr. Bucks!" Marion opened her bag to find it.

Bucks held out his hand. "Let me see it a moment." He adjusted his eye-glasses, looked at the
pass, and called for a pen; Bucks had never lost his gracious way of doing very little things.
He laid the card on the table and wrote across the back of it over his name: "Good on all passenger
trains." When he handed the card back to Marion he turned to Dicksie. "I understand you are
laying out two or three towns on the ranch, Mrs. McCloud?"

"Two or three! Oh, no, only one as yet, Mr. Bucks! They are laying out, oh, such a pretty town!
Cousin Lance is superintending the street work--and whom do you think I am going to name it
after? You! I think 'Bucks' makes a dandy name for a town, don't you? And I am going to have
one town named Dunning; there will be two stations on the ranch, you know, and I think, really,
there ought to be three."

"As many as that?"

"I don't believe you can operate a line that long, Mr. Bucks, with stations fourteen miles
apart." Bucks opened his eyes in benevolent surprise. Dicksie, unabashed, kept right on: "Well,
do you know how traffic is increasing over there, with the trains running only two months now?
Why, the settlers are fairly pouring into the country."

"Will you give me a corner lot if we put another station on the ranch?"

"I will give you two if you will give us excursions and run some of the Overland passenger
trains through the valley."

Bucks threw back his head and laughed in his tremendous way. "I don't know about that; I daren't
promise offhand, Mrs. McCloud. But if you can get Whispering Smith to come back you might lay
the matter before him. He is to take charge of all the colonist business when he returns; he
promised to do that before he went away for his vacation. Whispering Smith is really the man
you will have to stand in with."

                  *       *       *       *       *

Whispering Smith, lying on his iron bed in the hospital, professed not to be able quite to
understand why they had made such a fuss about it. He underwent the excitement of the appearance
of Barnhardt and the first talk with McCloud and Dicksie with hardly a rise in his temperature,
and, lying in the sunshine of the afternoon, he was waiting for Marion. When she opened the
door his face was turned wistfully toward it. He held out his hands with the old smile. She
ran half blinded across the room and dropped on her knee beside him.

"My dear Marion, why did they drag you away out here?"

"They did not drag me away out here. Did you expect me to sit with folded hands when I heard
you were ill anywhere in the wide world?"

He looked hungrily at her. "I didn't suppose any one in the wide world would take it very seriously."

"Mr. McCloud is crushed this afternoon to think you have said you would not go back with him.
You would not believe how he misses you."

"It has been pretty lonesome for the last year. I didn't think it could be so lonesome anywhere."

"Nor did I."

"Have you noticed it? I shouldn't think you could in the mountains. Was there much water last
spring? Heavens, I'd like to see the Crawling Stone again!"

"Why don't you come back?"

He folded her hands in his own. "Marion, it is you. I've been afraid I couldn't stand it to
be near you and not tell you----"

"What need you be afraid to tell me?"

"That I have loved you so long."

Her head sunk close to his. "Don't you know you have said it to me many times without words?
I've only been waiting for a chance to tell you how happy it makes me to think it is true."
A surprising climax brings the story to a delightful close.

THE RAINBOW TRAIL

The story of a young clergyman who becomes a wanderer in the great western uplands--until at
last love and faith awake. The prosecution of Jane Withersteen is the theme of the story.

THE SHORT STOP

The young hero, tiring of his factory grind, starts out to win fame and fortune as a professional
ball player. His hard knocks at the start are followed by such success as clean sportsmanship,
courage and honesty ought to win.

THE LONE STAR RANGER

After killing a man in self defense, Buck Duane becomes an outlaw along the Texas border. In
a camp on the Mexican side of the river, he finds a young girl held prisoner, and in attempting
to rescue her, brings down upon himself the wrath of her captors and henceforth is hunted on
one side by honest men, on the other by outlaws.

THE BORDER LEGION

Joan Randle, in a spirit of anger, sent Jim Cleve out to a lawless Western mining camp, to
prove his mettle. Then realizing that she loved him--she followed him out. On her way, she
is captured by a bandit band, and trouble begins when she shoots Kells, the leader--and nurses
him to health again. Here enters another romance--when Joan, disguised as an outlaw, observes
Jim, in the throes of dissipation. A gold strike, a thrilling robbery--gambling and gun-play
carry you along breathlessly.

THE LAST OF THE GREAT SCOUTS, By Helen Cody Wetmore and Zane Grey

The life story of Colonel William F. Cody, "Buffalo Bill," as told by his sister and Zane Grey.
It begins with his boyhood in Iowa and his first encounter with an Indian. We see "Bill" as
a pony express rider, then near Fort Sumter as Chief of the Scouts, and later engaged in the
most dangerous Indian campaigns. There is also a very interesting account of the travels of
"The Wild West" Show. No character in public life makes a stronger appeal to the imagination
of America than "Buffalo Bill," whose daring and bravery made him famous.

Grosset & Dunlap, Publishers, New York

THE NOVELS OF

GEORGE BARR McCUTCHEON

May be had wherever books are sold. Ask for Grosset and Dunlap's list.

GRAUSTARK. Illustrated with Scenes from the Play.

With the appearance of this novel, the author introduced a new type of story and won for himself
a perpetual reading public. It is the story of love behind a throne in a new and strange country.

BEVERLY OF GRAUSTARK. Illustrations by Harrison Fisher.

This is a sequel to "Graustark." A bewitching American girl visits the little principality
and there has a romantic love affair.

PRINCE OF GRAUSTARK. Illustrations by A. I. Keller.

The Prince of Graustark is none other than the son of the heroine of "Graustark." Beverly's
daughter, and an American multimillionaire with a brilliant and lovely daughter also figure
in the story.

BREWSTER'S MILLIONS.

Illustrated with Scenes from the Photo-Play.

A young man, required to spend one million dollars in one year, in order to inherit seven,
accomplishes the task in this lively story.

COWARDICE COURT.

Illus. by Harrison Fisher and decorations by Theodore Hapgood.

A romance of love and adventure, the plot forming around a social feud in the Adirondacks in
which an English girl is tempted into being a traitor by a romantic young American.

THE HOLLOW OF HER HAND. Illustrated by A. I. Keller.

A story of modern New York, built around an ancient enmity, born of the scorn of the aristocrat
for one of inferior birth.

WHAT'S-HIS-NAME. Illustrations by Harrison Fisher.

"What's-His-Name" is the husband of a beautiful and popular actress who is billboarded on Broadway
under an assumed name. The very opposite manner in which these two live their lives brings
a dramatic climax to the story.

Ask for Complete free list of G. & D. Popular Copyrighted Fiction

Grosset & Dunlap, Publishers, New York

THE NOVELS OF

MARY ROBERTS RINEHART

May be had wherever books are sold. Ask for Grosset & Dunlap's list.

"K." Illustrated.

K. LeMoyne, famous surgeon, drops out of the world that has known him, and goes to live in
a little town where beautiful Sidney Page lives. She is in training to become a nurse. The
joys and troubles of their young love are told with that keen and sympathetic appreciation
which has made the author famous.

THE MAN IN LOWER TEN. Illustrated by Howard Chandler Christy.

An absorbing detective story woven around the mysterious death of the "Man in Lower Ten." The
strongest elements of Mrs. Rinehart's success are found in this book.

WHEN A MAN MARRIES.

Illustrated by Harrison Fisher and Mayo Bunker.

A young artist, whose wife had recently divorced him, finds that his aunt is soon to visit
him. The aunt, who contributes to the family income and who has never seen the wife, knows
nothing of the domestic upheaval. How the young man met the situation is humorously and most
entertainingly told.

THE CIRCULAR STAIRCASE. Illus. by Lester Ralph.

The summer occupants of "Sunnyside" find the dead body of Arnold Armstrong, the son of the
owner, on the circular staircase. Following the murder a bank failure is announced. Around
these two events is woven a plot of absorbing interest.

THE STREET OF SEVEN STARS. Illustrated (Photo Play Edition.)

Harmony Wells, studying in Vienna to be a great violinist, suddenly realizes that her money
is almost gone. She meets a young ambitious doctor who offers her chivalry and sympathy, and
together with world-worn Dr. Anna and Jimmie, the waif, they share their love and slender means.

MASTER OF THE VINEYARD.

A pathetic love story of a young girl, Rosemary. The teacher of the country school, who is
also master of the vineyard, comes to know her through her desire for books. She is happy in
his love till another woman comes into his life. But happiness and emancipation from her many
trials come to Rosemary at last. The book has a touch of humor and pathos that will appeal
to every reader.

OLD ROSE AND SILVER.

A love story,--sentimental and humorous,--with the plot subordinate to the character delineation
of its quaint people and to the exquisite descriptions of picturesque spots and of lovely,
old, rare treasures.

A WEAVER OF DREAMS.

This story tells of the love-affairs of three young people, with an old-fashioned romance in
the background. A tiny dog plays an important role in serving as a foil for the heroine's talking
ingeniousness. There is poetry, as well as tenderness and charm, in this tale of a weaver of
dreams.

A SPINNER IN THE SUN.

Grosset & Dunlap, Publishers, New York

STORIES OF RARE CHARM BY

GENE STRATTON-PORTER

May be had wherever books are sold. Ask for Grosset & Dunlap's list.

MICHAEL O'HALLORAN, Illustrated by Frances Rogers.

Michael is a quick-witted little Irish newsboy, living in Northern Indiana. He adopts a deserted
little girl, a cripple. He also assumes the responsibility of leading the entire rural community
upward and onward.

LADDIE. Illustrated by Herman Pfeifer.

This is a bright, cheery tale with the scenes laid in Indiana. The story is told by Little
Sister, the youngest member of a large family, but it is concerned not so much with childish
doings as with the love affairs of older members of the family. Chief among them is that of
Laddie and the Princess, an English girl who has come to live in the neighborhood and about
whose family there hangs a mystery.

THE HARVESTER. Illustrated by W. L. Jacobs.

"The Harvester," is a man of the woods and fields, and if the book had nothing in it but the
splendid figure of this man it would be notable. But when the Girl comes to his "Medicine Woods,"
there begins a romance of the rarest idyllic quality.

FRECKLES. Illustrated.

Freckles is a nameless waif when the tale opens, but the way in which he takes hold of life;
the nature friendships he forms in the great Limberlost Swamp; the manner in which everyone
who meets him succumbs to the charm of his engaging personality; and his love-story with "The
Angel" are full of real sentiment.

A GIRL OF THE LIMBERLOST. Illustrated.

The story of a girl of the Michigan woods; a buoyant, loveable type of the self-reliant American.
Her philosophy is one of love and kindness towards all things; her hope is never dimmed. And
by the sheer beauty of her soul, and the purity of her vision, she wins from barren and unpromising
surroundings those rewards of high courage.

AT THE FOOT OF THE RAINBOW. Illustrations in colors.

The scene of this charming love story is laid in Central Indiana. The story is one of devoted
friendship, and tender self-sacrificing love. The novel is brimful of the most beautiful word
painting of nature, and its pathos and tender sentiment will endear it to all.

THE SONG OF THE CARDINAL. Profusely illustrated.

A love ideal of the Cardinal bird and his mate, told with delicacy and humor.

Grosset & Dunlap, Publishers, New York

B. M. BOWER'S NOVELS

Thrilling Western Romances

Large 12 mos. Handsomely bound in cloth. Illustrated

CHIP, OF THE FLYING U

A breezy wholesome tale, wherein the love affairs of Chip and Della Whitman are charmingly
and humorously told. Chip's jealousy of Dr. Cecil Grantham, who turns out to be a big, blue
eyed young woman is very amusing. A clever, realistic story of the American Cow-puncher.

THE HAPPY FAMILY

A lively and amusing story, dealing with the adventures of eighteen jovial, big hearted Montana
cowboys. Foremost amongst them, we find Ananias Green, known as Andy, whose imaginative powers
cause many lively and exciting adventures.

HER PRAIRIE KNIGHT

A realistic story of the plains, describing a gay party of Easterners who exchange a cottage
at Newport for the rough homeliness of a Montana ranch-house. The merry-hearted cowboys, the
fascinating Beatrice, and the effusive Sir Redmond, become living, breathing personalities.

THE RANGE DWELLERS

Here are every-day, genuine cowboys, just as they really exist. Spirited action, a range feud
between two families, and a Romeo and Juliet courtship make this a bright, jolly, entertaining
story, without a dull page.

THE LURE OF DIM TRAILS

A vivid portrayal of the experience of an Eastern author, among the cowboys of the West, in
search of "local color" for a new novel. "Bud" Thurston learns many a lesson while following
"the lure of the dim trails" but the hardest, and probably the most welcome, is that of love.

THE LONESOME TRAIL

"Weary" Davidson leaves the ranch for Portland, where conventional city life palls on him.
A little branch of sage brush, pungent with the atmosphere of the prairie, and the recollection
of a pair of large brown eyes soon compel his return. A wholesome love story.

THE LONG SHADOW

A vigorous Western story, sparkling with the free, outdoor, life of a mountain ranch. Its scenes
shift rapidly and its actors play the game of life fearlessly and like men. It is a fine love
story from start to finish. Ask for Grosset & Dunlap's list.

THE BLAZED TRAIL. Illustrated by Thomas Fogarty.

A wholesome story with gleams of humor, telling of a young man who blazed his way to fortune
through the heart of the Michigan pines.

THE CALL OF THE NORTH. Ills. with Scenes from the Play.

The story centers about a Hudson Bay trading post, known as "The Conjuror's House" (the original
title of the book.)

THE RIVERMAN. Ills. by N. C. Wyeth and C. F. Underwood.

The story of a man's fight against a river and of a struggle between honesty and grit on the
one side, and dishonesty and shrewdness on the other.

RULES OF THE GAME. Illustrated by Lejaren A. Hiller.

The romance of the son of "The Riverman." The young college hero goes into the lumber camp,
is antagonized by "graft," and comes into the romance of his life.

GOLD. Illustrated by Thomas Fogarty.

The gold fever of '49 is pictured with vividness. A part of the story is laid in Panama, the
route taken by the gold-seekers.

THE FOREST. Illustrated by Thomas Fogarty.

The book tells of the canoe trip of the author and his companion into the great woods. Much
information about camping and outdoor life. A splendid treatise on woodcraft.

THE MOUNTAINS. Illustrated by Fernand Lungren.

An account of the adventures of a five months' camping trip in the Sierras of California. The
author has followed a true sequence of events.

THE CABIN. Illustrated with photographs by the author.

A chronicle of the building of a cabin home in a forest-girdled meadow of the Sierras. Full
of nature and woodcraft, and the shrewd philosophy of "California John."

THE GRAY DAWN. Illustrated by Thomas Fogarty.

This book tells of the period shortly after the first mad rush for gold in California. A young
lawyer and his wife, initiated into the gay life of San Francisco, find their ways parted through
his downward course, but succeeding events bring the "gray dawn of better things" for both
of them. ILLUSTRATED.

May be had wherever books are sold. Ask for Grosset and Dunlap's list

MAVERICKS.

A tale of the western frontier, where the "rustler," whose depredations are so keenly resented
by the early settlers of the range, abounds. One of the sweetest love stories ever told.

A TEXAS RANGER.

How a member of the most dauntless border police force carried law into the mesquit, saved
the life of an innocent man after a series of thrilling adventures, followed a fugitive to
Wyoming, and then passed through deadly peril to ultimate happiness.

WYOMING.

In this vivid story of the outdoor West the author has captured the breezy charm of "cattleland,"
and brings out the turbid life of the frontier with all its engaging dash and vigor.

RIDGWAY OF MONTANA.

The scene is laid in the mining centers of Montana, where politics and mining industries are
the religion of the country. The political contest, the love scene, and the fine character
drawing give this story great strength and charm.

BUCKY O'CONNOR.

Every chapter teems with wholesome, stirring adventures, replete with the dashing spirit of
the border, told with dramatic dash and absorbing fascination of style and plot.

CROOKED TRAILS AND STRAIGHT.

A story of Arizona; of swift-riding men and daring outlaws; of a bitter feud between cattlemen
and sheep-herders. The heroine is a most unusual woman and her love story reaches a culmination
that is fittingly characteristic of the great free West.

BRAND BLOTTERS.

A story of the Cattle Range. This story brings out the turbid life of the frontier, with all
its engaging dash and vigor, with a charming love interest running through its 320 pages. Ask
for Grosset & Dunlap's list.

JEWEL: A Chapter in Her Life.

Illustrated by Maude and Genevieve Cowles.

A story breathing the doctrine of love and patience as exemplified in the life of a child.
Jewel will never grow old because of the immortality of her love.

JEWEL'S STORY BOOK. Illustrated by Albert Schmitt.

A sequel to "Jewel," in which the same characteristics of love and cheerfulness touch and uplift
the reader.

THE INNER FLAME. Frontispiece in color.

A young mining engineer, whose chief ambition is to become an artist, but who has no friends
with whom to realize his hopes, has a way opened to him to try his powers, and, of course,
he is successful.

THE RIGHT PRINCESS.

At a fashionable Long Island resort, a stately English woman employs a forcible New England
housekeeper to serve in her interesting home. Many humorous situations result. A delightful
love affair runs through it all.

THE OPENED SHUTTERS.

Illustrated with Scenes from the Photo Play.

A beautiful woman, at discord with life, is brought to realize, by her new friends, that she
may open the shutters of her soul to the blessed sunlight of joy by casting aside self love.

THE RIGHT TRACK.

Frontispiece in color by Greene Blumenschien.

A story of a young girl who marries for money so that she can enjoy things intellectual. Neglect
of her husband and of her two step children makes an unhappy home till a friend brings a new
philosophy of happiness into the household.

CLEVER BETSY. Illustrated by Rose O' Neill.

The "Clever Betsy" was a boat--named for the unyielding spinster whom the captain hoped to
marry. Through the two Betsy's a delightful group of people are introduced. Ask for Grosset
& Dunlap's list

WHEN PATTY WENT TO COLLEGE, By Jean Webster. Illustrated by C. D. Williams.

One of the best stories of life in a girl's college that has ever been written. It is bright,
whimsical and entertaining, lifelike, laughable and thoroughly human.

JUST PATTY, By Jean Webster. Illustrated by C. M. Relyea.

Patty is full of the joy of living, fun-loving, given to ingenious mischief for its own sake,
with a disregard for pretty convention which is an unfailing source of joy to her fellows.

THE POOR LITTLE RICH GIRL, By Eleanor Gates. With four full page illustrations.

This story relates the experience of one of those unfortunate children whose early days are
passed in the companionship of a governess, seldom seeing either parent, and famishing for
natural love and tenderness. A charming play as dramatized by the author.

REBECCA OF SUNNYBROOK FARM, By Kate Douglas Wiggin.

One of the most beautiful studies of childhood--Rebecca's artistic, unusual and quaintly charming
qualities stand out midst a circle of austere New Englanders. The stage version is making a
phenomenal dramatic record.

NEW CHRONICLES OF REBECCA, By Kate Douglas Wiggin. Illustrated by F. C. Yohn.

Additional episodes in the girlhood of this delightful heroine that carry Rebecca through various
stages to her eighteenth birthday.

REBECCA MARY, By Annis Hamilton Donnell. Illustrated by Elizabeth Shippen Green.

This author possesses the rare gift of portraying all the grotesque little joys and sorrows
and scruples of this very small girl with a pathos that is peculiarly genuine and appealing.

EMMY LOU: Her Book and Heart, By George Madden Martin. Illustrated by Charles Louis Hinton.

Emmy Lou is irresistibly lovable, because she is so absolutely real. She is just a bewitchingly
innocent, hugable little maid. The book is wonderfully human. Ask for Grosset & Dunlap's list.

SHORTY McCABE. Illustrated by Francis Vaux Wilson.

A very humorous story. The hero, an independent and vigorous thinker, sees life, and tells
about it in a very unconventional way.

SIDE-STEPPING WITH SHORTY. Illustrated by Francis Vaux Wilson.

Twenty skits, presenting people with their foibles. Sympathy with human nature and an abounding
sense of humor are the requisites for "side-stepping with Shorty."

SHORTY McCABE ON THE JOB. Illustrated by Francis Vaux Wilson.

Shorty McCabe reappears with his figures of speech revamped right up to the minute. He aids
in the right distribution of a "conscience fund," and gives joy to all concerned.

SHORTY McCABE'S ODD NUMBERS, Illustrated by Francis Vaux Wilson.

These further chronicles of Shorty McCabe tell of his studio for physical culture, and of his
experiences both on the East side and at swell yachting parties.

TORCHY. Illus, by Geo. Biehm and Jas. Montgomery Flagg.

A red-headed office boy, overflowing with wit and wisdom peculiar to the youths reared on the
sidewalks of New York, tells the story of his experiences.

TRYING OUT TORCHY. Illustrated by F. Foster Lincoln.

Torchy is just as deliriously funny in these stories as he was in the previous book.

ON WITH TORCHY. Illustrated by F. Foster Lincoln.

Torchy falls desperately in love with "the only girl that ever was," but that young society
woman's aunt tries to keep the young people apart, which brings about many hilariously funny
situations.

TORCHY, PRIVATE SEC. Illustrated by F. Foster Lincoln.

Torchy rises from the position of office boy to that of secretary for the Corrugated Iron Company.
The story is full of humor and infectious American slang.

WILT THOU TORCHY. Illus. by F. Snapp and A. W. Brown.

Torchy goes on a treasure search expedition to the Florida West Coast, in company with a group
of friends of the Corrugated Trust and with his friend's aunt, on which trip Torchy wins the
aunt's permission to place an engagement ring on Vee's finger.

Grosset & Dunlap, Publishers, New York

KATHLEEN NORRIS' STORIES

May be had wherever books are sold. Ask for Grosset & Dunlap's list.

MOTHER. Illustrated by F. C. Yohn.

This book has a fairy-story touch, counterbalanced by the sturdy reality of struggle, sacrifice,
and resulting peace and power of a mother's experiences.

SATURDAY'S CHILD.

Frontispiece by F. Graham Cootes.

Out on the Pacific coast a normal girl, obscure and lovely, makes a quest for happiness. She
passes through three stages--poverty, wealth and service--and works out a creditable salvation.

THE RICH MRS. BURGOYNE.

Illustrated by Lucius H. Hitchcock.

The story of a sensible woman who keeps within her means, refuses to be swamped by social engagements,
lives a normal human life of varied interests, and has her own romance.

THE STORY OF JULIA PAGE.

Frontispiece by Allan Gilbert.

How Julia Page, reared in rather unpromising surroundings, lifted herself through sheer determination
to a higher plane of life.

THE HEART OF RACHAEL.

Frontispiece by Charles E. Chambers.

Rachael is called upon to solve many problems, and in working out these, there is shown the
beauty and strength of soul of one of fiction's most appealing characters. Illustrated by Howard
Giles.

The Reverend John Hodder is called to a fashionable church in a middle-western city. He knows
little of modern problems and in his theology is as orthodox as the rich men who control his
church could desire. But the facts of modern life are thrust upon him; an awakening follows
and in the end he works out a solution.

A FAR COUNTRY. Illustrated by Herman Pfeifer.

This novel is concerned with big problems of the day. As The Inside of the Cup gets down to
the essentials in its discussion of religion, so A Far Country deals in a story that is intense
and dramatic, with other vital issues confronting the twentieth century.

A MODERN CHRONICLE. Illustrated by J. H. Gardner Soper.

This, Mr. Churchill's first great presentation of the Eternal Feminine, is throughout a profound
study of a fascinating young American woman. It is frankly a modern love story.

MR. CREWE'S CAREER. Illus. by A. I. Keller and Kinneys.

A new England state is under the political domination of a railway and Mr. Crewe, a millionaire,
seizes a moment when the cause of the people is being espoused by an ardent young attorney,
to further his own interest in a political way. The daughter of the railway president plays
no small part in the situation.

THE CROSSING. Illustrated by S. Adamson and L. Baylis.

Describing the battle of Fort Moultrie, the blazing of the Kentucky wilderness, the expedition
of Clark and his handful of followers in Illinois, the beginning of civilization along the
Ohio and Mississippi, and the treasonable schemes against Washington.

CONISTON. Illustrated by Florence Scovel Shinn.

A deft blending of love and politics. A New Englander is the hero, a crude man who rose to
political prominence by his own powers, and then surrendered all for the love of a woman.

THE CELEBRITY. An episode.

An inimitable bit of comedy describing an interchange of personalities between a celebrated
author and a bicycle salesman. It is the purest, keenest fun--and is American to the core.

THE CRISIS. Illustrated with scenes from the Photo-Play.

A book that presents the great crisis in our national life with splendid power and with a sympathy,
a sincerity, and a patriotism that are inspiring.

RICHARD CARVEL. Illustrated by Malcolm Frazer.

An historical novel which gives a real and vivid picture of Colonial times, and is good, clean,
spirited reading in all its phases and interesting throughout.

Grosset & Dunlap, Publishers, New York

GROSSET & DUNLAP'S

DRAMATIZED NOVELS

THE KIND THAT ARE MAKING THEATRICAL HISTORY

May be had wherever books are sold. Ask for Grosset & Dunlap's list

WITHIN THE LAW. By Bayard Veiller & Marvin Dana. Illustrated by Wm. Charles Cooke.

This is a novelization of the immensely successful play which ran for two years in New York
and Chicago.

The plot of this powerful novel is of a young woman's revenge directed against her employer
who allowed her to be sent to prison for three years on a charge of theft, of which she was
innocent.

WHAT HAPPENED TO MARY. By Robert Carlton Brown. Illustrated with scenes from the play.

This is a narrative of a young and innocent country girl who is suddenly thrown into the very
heart of New York, "the land of her dreams," where she is exposed to all sorts of temptations
and dangers.

The story of Mary is being told in moving pictures and played in theatres all over the world.

THE RETURN OF PETER GRIMM. By David Belasco.

Illustrated by John Rae.

This is a novelization of the popular play in which David Warfield as Old Peter Grimm, scored
such a remarkable success.

The story is spectacular and extremely pathetic but withal, powerful, both as a book and as a play.

THE GARDEN OF ALLAH. By Robert Hichens.

This novel is an intense, glowing epic of the great desert, sunlit barbaric, with its marvelous
atmosphere of vastness and loneliness.

It is a book of rapturous beauty, vivid in word painting. The play has been staged with magnificent
cast and gorgeous properties.

BEN HUR. A Tale of the Christ. By General Lew Wallace.

The whole world has placed this famous Religious-Historical Romance on a height of pre-eminence
which no other novel of its time has reached. The clashing of rivalry and the deepest human
passions, the perfect reproduction of brilliant Roman life, and the tense, fierce atmosphere
of the arena have kept their deep fascination. A tremendous dramatic success.

BOUGHT AND PAID FOR. By George Broadhurst and Arthur Hornblow. Illustrated with scenes from
the play.

A stupendous arraignment of modern marriage which has created an interest on the stage that
is almost unparalleled. The scenes are laid in New York, and deal with conditions among both
the rich and poor.

The interest of the story turns on the day-by-day developments which show the young wife the
price she has paid.