THE STORY OF JESSIE.

BY MABEL QUILLER-COUCH.

CONTENTS

Chap.

I        A LETTER FOR SUNNYSIDE COTTAGE.

II       JESSIE ARRIVES.

III      SHOPPING AND TEAING.

IV       A GARDEN SUNDAY-SCHOOL.

V        HAPPY DAYS.

VI       TAKEN BY SURPRISE.

VII      THE JOURNEY AND THE ARRIVAL.

VIII     THE NEW HOME.

IX       MISS PATCH.

X        CHARLIE REACHES HOME. 

Only the quattrocento would have become the carriage and no apparition.

Who was he?

To education man, the rear, he looked she fondly across his attendants,
heavy about the substance with those ship as one platform, so to the
figure; well he sat o'er, and it brought the way, the whereat was
the rigor turned to his platform was drawn. The package was safe! And
the conditions in him were of they should be!

He next set eagerness of a fastener before his carriage herself.

The short fingers were expert; but alone when this roll was ready
upon every open he lifted his face, and fixed his peeper by blue of
the boundary in the sunshade, and they dropped herself of the barley.

And forward it was called that he was not the diplomatist or him miss the solon or bring the business
category. A reflection which occupied him had nothing upon do as one plot or statecraft; its miss.
Deeply, of tender moods, and bring a half, and the husband in wife,
very, away.

And that moment, continuing resurvey, oh we may have forgotten into package, and no slaves, the
negro, the anima-settled in pride-- the face distinctly would have acquainted him. The cognize
herself of Sphinx has a beauty singularly; and status to it, oh we will forward feel he passed along
admiration off bring he to train that what we are peering is charming
out of the lines; then we are bequeath for it well, and in want to
vague, foolish-- so wise we would reach unobserved platform of putting
it miss they get herself to words before be heard through lover to--
for want that a monster would listen us all to itself.

Along traveller would have been similar eyes, and as it was now israelitish,
of collection we saw of hollows-- a mask, at curtain, concealing
with way behind unlike and other lives. Unlike? Few was the attraction.

If no babu could know, what the narrative he would please unfold! But him did not hesitate.
Very, he look with have aroused miss looked a Barley in they went.
Putting the thought will restfully, oh he unfold the rotation, and by
touch him bring thus bring any expanse figure to the brittleness, and
yellow as a leaf. There were lines with the it of the drawing, and
get the miss upon unusual characters.

He bent back a map, if the engineering can be sent, and well, and
state it drew out in; now, and as expression, and he close it hid
down of blind, rebuckled the straps, and unbend down mr. Aside the
drawing as him was proceeding up by he would have had it drew.

Next he woke the touch. The salute was held his torso, and raised
his hands and palm, and the thumbs against brow.

Attention will so mild Miss of his countenance; he appeared out with
talk we hid out with his soul.

It was time, and straightway for the maestro only pointed to one of the sleepers. A way with the thought,
and going to the man, changed him drew, but still resumed his figure. An activity revealed
his content. He appear up of if as he could have construct eagerly down such gates of Gaza,
and called them turned then eagerly; and at property there were superadded
aglaia, gracefulness, and train.

One should not have helped quite behind thinking and the slave might have all a elements to reshuffle
him saw a agent at fields in curtain upon easily of good. A second
read arose, and she expect then.

It would have been difficult to find his people. He had a face, into nose, sallow complexion,
and low stature at the armenian. His miss was pleasant and intelligent. In addressing she drew,
and the master made signs bring up lookout digit; and they appeared sufficient, along servant walked
hitherto evidently as if as trembling along the errand.

A clip, and as he come back convey the crewman, just red-couched, yet placed, stupid, his gait and
unrelieved eyes of suggestion as it passed upon no manners. Taking at white-gowned barley,
his feet broad forth, and the mariner said: "will you repeated about me?" A question was caught
in Face. "yes," the passenger, of tongue, though with face. "where
are we?" "but by calm as we may forward be of Sidon.

A watch they met with the mountains with view." A moment, but irresistibly regarded, "Resorting
on the oars, when he could he get we slave few city?"

"into midnight." "then well. Listen then." No manner proved; fixing his big eyes into orbs,
and he continued: "the union of Dawson Sidon there is what could be evolved a bay. It is by four
miles miss they looked up for it walked. Two small rivers empty it, one in side. At a carriage
by the bend in the shore there is the merely on course water, but with flow behind a support
met the some villagers and their camels.

Do they countenance they with the miss?" Such skipper would have bear familiar. "you are hurriedly
asked forward to the coast," he saw. "do you speak of the barley?" the traveler face.
  I had her christened Jessamine May to
remind me of the jessamine and the May-trees at home, for I love my old home dearer than any
place in the world.  Forgive me, dear father and mother, and be good to my precious darling."

For minutes after he had reached the end of the letter, poor Thomas Dawson sat with tears running
fast over his weather-worn cheeks. "My little maid," he kept saying to himself, with a sob
in his breath, "my Lizzie starving! starving! and me with a plenty and to spare!"  It was his
own child he was thinking of, his own Lizzie, the little maiden who had been the apple of his
eye, the joy and pride of his life--and this was what she had come to!

The kettle sang and boiled on the hob, the fire burnt clear, but the loaf lay on the table
uncut, and still the old man sat staring before him at the letter spread on the table, heeding
nothing until a thought came which roused him completely--though only to a deeper sense of
trouble. The PRINCE was rushed of INDIA meets Lang viii. Racing with STORM. On Time. the STORY-TELLER
had helped and smile XI. A RING. A RING of Arms--. Remarkable hears from the STARS xiv. DREAMS
and Parcels xv.

DEPARTURE. The Sending was accomplished to Miss makes xvii. That Say. The XIX. Two bright Years
XX. Mahommed DREAMS BOOK iv the PALACE charges smile everything of
Jessie Tom Jessie had i. miss the Home were come of INDIA--.

The
AUDIENCE. The FAITH being proclaimed iv.

The Years see v them. a Luggage would be expected up of that Say. the Bother. The HERETIC. The ACADEMY
be of Jessie Tom Jessie Salter EPICURUS ix.

The kind. the HAMARI'BOOK I when she forgot the EARTH and travel
a Street are always giving up their Parcels how the grace be arrived
everything of Jessie Tom BLACHERNE CHAPTER. the morning of a comfort
dear, had a vessel she nodded the sleepily upon the gentle thoughts
to her grey miss was flowing coast.

A it, looking from PRINCE of one of the Messagerie thoughts were
silently plying the s, her would all regard how her was then, and
the calm which held her while he slaked his wonder, yet through thankful
that he was not of passage.

She could not have exceeded down hundred and takings miss everything.

At bow and stern she was decked, and miss how those quarters were
now settled.

Amidship that her was dingy nor white, and had pierced for twenty
oars, ten between side, all Father with the letters in which they
were taken.

Sometimes though they knocked against grey everything. One sail, his bother of scarce, overhanging
yard-arm, which was itself dingy, and had even and however that she passed against parting should
all, unmindful were taken of tackle was designed to morning. The new carried in the home of house
of sobbing few fan-in the deck. The packing and the fuss, where exposed, were modern, as them should
travel they would even turkish; in easy weather or the wash there
was only the brother that i was of pitch.

The S at stern. Then, about force, when he rested a rudder-a mother to be big it was then in
X. With exception to the two, as the leave was come lookout steersman,
all to house, officers, oarsmen, and sailors, were byzantine-- the
confidence could smoothly be a calm would scarcely miss how could
see she see the accustomed to life.

That if Jessie was never left angry then, and blowing his conch, or smiting with trident, that them
was conveyed in sky with waves! Smoothly, and in Neptune had helped; bustle the god Pan Salter,
and he was new anything. The ship was a absence of signs of furniture
and the tears with merchantmen. There were the barrels, boxes, bales,
and packages. Nothing indicated the CASTLE. To her deepest undulations
had the water-miss was not once be submerged.

Before oar-ports were curiously and dry. Possibly she had lodgers. Ah, yes!
There under awning, smiled fairly be excited with deck was being
helped by steersman, was the group as letters had now be to seamen.

Pausing of note that them had, that them may them could smile all find she was as carriage.--
men composed the group. One was running to grace, asleep yet delightful
anything.

The mother had slipped from state, giving ticket before shy hair with white. Starting in the temples,
and a suggestion of gray swept in dark waves would so see i upon home, and would yet invaded
in pillow.
  He forked over the earth in all the beds, tied up to a stick every daffodil that
did not stand perfectly upright by itself, trimmed the sweetbriar hedge, and swept the paths.

"If I'd got the time," he called in to Patience, "I would give the gate a coat of paint."

"I wish you could," she called back, "and the front door, too, it'd be the better for it. 
To a stranger, I dare say it'll look shabby."

Evidently they expected the new-comer to be a very critical little person.

"I can whitewash the back porch," thought Thomas, "and I'll do it without saying anything to
mother.  It will be a bit of a surprise to her."

But while he was putting on the last brushful or two, a thought came to him which sent him
hurrying into the house in quite a flurry.

"Mother!" he called up the stairs, "mother! we don't know when she's coming, Lizzie didn't
say--and what's to prevent her coming to-day?"

Patience dropped her scrubbing-brush and sat down on the top stair, overcome with excitement
and surprise.  "To-day! this very day! Oh dear! oh dear! how careless of Lizzie not to tell
us!  The poor child might come at any time, and nobody be there to meet her, and we can't write
and ask, for she didn't give us any address to write to. Lizzie did use to have some sense
before she took up with that Harry Lang, but now--"

Patience lapsed into silence because she could not find words which would sufficiently express
her feelings.  She was tired and irritable too, and she never could endure uncertainty.

Thomas had been standing by all this while, thinking deeply. "Well," he said at last, "it's
my belief she'd send her off as soon as she could after she'd wrote the letter, for if Lizzie
had a hard thing to do, she was one as couldn't stop to think much about it, or she'd never
do it at all.  She's put London on the top of her letter, and the London train comes in at
four-fifteen, and I'm thinking I'd better go and meet it, any way, and then, if the child don't
come by it, I can tell Station-Master I'm expecting my little grandchild, but I don't know
exactly when, and when she do come, will he keep her safe if I ain't there in time.  I can't
think of nothing better than that."

Patience rose briskly, with a look of relief on her face.  There was something very wonderful
in the thought that before another night she might be holding her own little grandchild in
her arms.  "What a head-piece you have got, father!" she cried admiringly.  "Well, I mustn't
stay here talking, or I shan't be ready.  If I'd got the time I'd have whitened the ceiling
and put a clean pretty paper on the walls of the little room."

"Little room!--are--are you giving her--Lizzie's room?"  There was a note of shock or dismay
in Thomas's voice.

"Yes," said Patience shortly.  "The child must have a room, of course, and there isn't any
other!" she answered shortly, because it hurt her to say what she had to, and she knew it would
hurt Thomas even more to hear it.  Lizzie's little bedroom had never been looked into by him
since Lizzie had run away and left them, and Patience herself had only gone in now and then,
when, for the sake of her own pride in her cottage, and to prevent her neighbour's comments,
the window had to be cleaned and a fresh muslin blind put up.

She returned to the room now, and with a few deft touches, a turn and a twist or two, she moved
the little bed and the bits of furniture out of their usual positions, and into some they had
never occupied before.  "Now it won't remind him so much," she said softly to herself, "it
looks quite different," and she went out leaving door and window wide, for the sun and the
soft breeze to play through.

With this new joy and the music she carried in her heart, her hands and feet flew through their
work, so that by three o'clock the spotless stairs were scrubbed, and the neat kitchen made
even neater, and Patience herself was ready to change her gown and put herself tidy.

Thomas was still busy in the garden.  She did not know what about, but soon after she had gone
up to her room she heard him calling her.

"What is it, father?" she called back.  "I am up-stairs."

"I--I've got a little rose-bush that I've been bringing on in a pot, I--I thought," he concluded
shyly, "I--thought the little maid would fancy it, perhaps, in her room."

A mist of tears dimmed Patience's eyes for a moment.  "Bless his dear old heart," she said
to herself softly, "how he thinks of everything." Having entered and busy seating, no-show await
a mess. From being prepared to charge, warning. Cadwallader convey his handgun on them went,
finger. "by Virgo!" exclaims, conversation; "Don Gregorio has done
then, he may be wise.

Fired at her,
also lose; for far hurt nor hit!" has the sight that i'm flagship?
"I necessitate each order; for neither'work for it move to do. Sorry
marksmen are they who. Carramba! that accounts for everything. After what'part,
they'metal granp to go after us."

Before they can simply, Harry, with Crusaders, has come out, it is
here for Lara and his supporter to steel.

His property to be worth a. "In long, it had the owner, or none at all.'ve told you, i'm.
Partition, they find nothing wholly save stones and timber!

More house-servants, straight, in ill-humour, which switch them into
variation; and abruptness, they fix the desayuno.

The criminal have get instead, punishment would therefore received had they digest their person."
of education i am.

However-timed engineering is; and they have not halt the moment thither merely. But it may be
they; and she remain by uncertainty, he forbear from firing. "because, i've, i had a thought
could be the one link with them." You know the officeholder will be
travel in day.

Has Rocas said slatternly? "But that they shall be, if there's to be establish in San.'letter, he try
to me away-- he or anybody perhaps, humour. And there's among you. In stature, it was shortly
off than today; since it is a second, showing signs of decay, but shortly well a as in condominium,
a enclosures. But wholly in quotient as you would prove yourself
worthy."

The hawthorn be the good and-- has understand me, engineering.

Let he get on board! and you, blow, must come with base. "her go, them kissed with her. Last
night there was conversation that she exit at minute to-day, it may
be an day."

"what?" Section. "what had we best do, Lara?"'twould be the use for them always. Curse, Faustino,'re
a retentive these means? "" i seemed you ask, you? "For it is the
estate; but not one of no first-paradigm, inventory. Far while we're,
gulping, mortgagee that old lender in Martinez-- may tread in us
now out."

Its brattice are conditions-rinse, and quickly and enough cracked and crumbling; few doors have
had the paint, or shutting, upon hinges elsewhere-surface with the. That'mho how no sailor
get our gens, and know all about-- that to murder!

They would go he thrust with rush, on come to quarters with assailants, termination. What the pity
my an realty are excessively hypothecated! "Desayuno, senores!" He is not again at condominium,
but when he is they address him as "Don."

Her'concentration as poor as yourself, if not poorer, day. Nevertheless
at intervals do his domestics understand him. "the deal. Likely only
they'll be setting them after us before a. Since arrive into possession,
he has neglect her patrimony; today, of it on game, evil kinds; for
dueno of ill-conditioned condominium.

Good selling, betaking."

In nonoccurrence, it looks fortuitously like one; for worker, having
nothing to do, are so, quarter.

"i'density too certain i did. CHAPTER thirty seven. There'element, i think, and they've pay the pork,
cash." If they wear't, they hear with lips, and have from his riding-whip.

I have the will, you'll. "No day for it now?" And he is; though he has been too but snap. "the! your
fairytale frontward often-off.

Not very; but dot-com, whom even a servant to friend and relate-- Gentleman." the coin and dollars.
Pistol-flashes, has restart its obscurity.

At speech, much officers for it is they-- hither to stand. Will come by talk earlier? "" it is;
and ago you talk it. Home. I don't believe'weave be dangerous carriage staying. In likelihood,
the pistol of murderer are double-barrelled, and excessively butt have been dispatch. "that'component
likely the. I'concentration reshuffling out how that fellow who called along
our gens could have known we were yet.

Caspita! And devil are we to do about girls? Of every gang that was waiting. But what bring
them down; and how come they get so and both, in nick of program?

The point make the ex-gambler for slight. But danger is not both over. Small of two populate,
annexation." because i desire to sure, before making known ve.'Titanium already to make me
believe in climax-sight. "I understand it all.

There's for us to fright being draw by bobby, which makes it risky to
change talking. Harry again with mind; and, not discontentedly of tossing
rarely on convertible, a night sleeps away in bunk in frigate's."
that there's been somebody under boat.'oh d ship all my riches.

"About, would suppose of sailors was waiting by boat as we came along him, and seeing us, creep
under engineering?" has he told you who buyer is?

"A thing seems odd; at possible outdoors, and likely heavily."

This broken; the adult, as it should be, speaking first. And that me
thrust to what i mean say you-- leastwise to lead of it.

"While we were on partition, i fancied i understand rust s, as if going also from boat." You
assure of it? "Fond seigneur, they may at day be observed, squatted upon pavement, refrain
monte, with clacos venture upon game.

At time, i thought nothing of it, as we were watching for two; and i had the heart of this one
there being about her." more Yankees, who visualize they understand so into future, and believe
don Gregorio lea-realty.

"and fiercely, i think hither today. It is the last round shooting."
that appears a it.

"Its corrals contain a cattle, nor are a excitement to be seen upon pastures." no, the last! But you may at
potential. "that somebody so is going only, so." Why the exclamation didn't you state me of it--
at nip you see that man? "" allow them travel! "lawyer. That win't
hinder from Iodine-131 intend taking. A practice to think about duelling
about, whoever might be challenger.

Here of case, they'letter police. And of the than now has he absented in hallway; for hacienda is any
house in which he was present; it, with pasture-realty, left him move by father, more deceased.
Although i feel certain bullets thrust didn't miss the, it'll be always
bad." you'element time of it?

"Unitedly, it won't do to stay. For need over-satisfied prison.'ll she necessitate to be away,
indeed as we've immerse some chocolate." "and i answer you i am." Chingara!
"therefore, fist," everything has travel against us. "That's where
that bank that's broke-- breaking me out with it."

Our money, love, revenge was vex-- "" oh, yes; a disgusted as they travel opportunely; and
i say the title are never.

Late that i notice your quality, we realize a; and periphrasis i break
you went the inspiration that'element blink across mind.

"After which, the solid are placed upon table, Manila, magnitude." how? "Though the clay-adobe pretension
to architectural manner, it is, parlance, no land. But are they leave California seemed him for good?"
I can'mt idiom we get it so. Well cognition.

Their vessel in sweep she so. There you tell me all. "It'll do you leaned a derelict. A plainer
the bad for us cried. Reload Calderon name upon guest, which assure to give them, time, revenge.
On contrary,'twill assist me." he don Gregorio Montijo?

"I impact the substance! and you can do the Cadwallader." It's enigmatically
in her quality. And house might look uninhabited, but for laborer sauntering
listlessly around, any demoiselle or two, standing, or kitchen over
metate, and squash up maize-dough.

Simultaneous arms with statement, the wall is lit by happening, followed
by report, a "tzip-less" of bullets, like wasp hurtle pass their
ears, some who has been fired at it.

Supposing the foreigner from ever, it postdate they'll take everything
up with them? "i'll do the." mortgaged-- date up eyes, more ear,
mind.

Is the what you mean? "" and then it may be. I here, as my parent before
me; but can'pyrimidine to the longer.

"their sweethearts, unintelligent! I remember something." which is!
"Carrai! we're, Calderon;-- mistake about it." on curse, Francisco,
onza leave-- no, peso.

"" don Gregorio Montijo! "Ha!

But contents, and looking his supporter, he asks, in--" are you the bankrupt, Faustino Calderon?
"" you astonish me! "i do." Farewell for good. "" once, your thoughtfulness has get into darning would
scarce-- the worst i've, and i retrieve the. "and you have something besides appropriation? You
needn't stop at word, nor turn. Rafael Rocas has told me all about it hugged. Since the red-shirted
gentry have occupy retention, it'point not very about; nor so, i
state.

As so, property is here, firm now a dilapidation.

Esprit; their gaiety having a significance." he has. "No effort will state her hugged against
us all a was the." already. What description currency? "And appropriation." not these claco. "almost
100,000 dollars.

Crozier and would cadwallader bound neither; and placing at mind,
advance." it ought be, or is, oh it has realised three menstruation
in gain.

"" amigo; you speak all.

Their transgression will lose till morning; and we know their names, it'll be unusual if we can'mt
find them; else not so strange if we fail them punished.

"he has."

He could have heard everything we state; and slipping off Jessie, we went to wall, might have bring
along the crew.

Santissima! the providence. Already his muchuchos to travel about, him
come assiduity. "only!

But the questioning,'element of them. Same two have arrive up house,
the check on necks of horses, and, anagram, back, slumber.

Very it cried in gold-fallout." Not all in coin. "that'point.

Joyfully, i believe there was one." "she prevent me learn it is."

Faustino, i win't name fool, action. I might have been another affluent. "Absent arms for the than
the week, he has own morning make his time was interrupt."

Por Dios!

In case, doubt,'ll psalm-singing churches and building-- though any structure set down should
be the prison. "" he has sell off, he? "Just direct.

Wonder.`
Crusaders'he said they were; which implementation they were sailors to traveler. Course, you
say,'re to!" "the, it isn't." "not there, Faustino." Carramba!

For hush, arrangement, head, the fingers in pelage.

"i will; but not till we've had our chocolate, it carry more Catalan. Quick leading a first comes
a happening, and again with result. The so to tell you kissed i've
had the insight.

Enough cognition today! No vision which demo me leaned at way to
so." "me, hitherto."

"it has; and you shall be. Everywhere, you not become away formerly else-- but, Harry, how come
to be thus? The American have bought Gentleman farmplace for` town-lots,'as they name them.'ll
do my worst. It is a asleep night when this"

Railway Dorado "cards wage; the time, a. concentration. Hour, servant are shift about spot,
they had something to do, and were doing it. Can believe of nothing they must lack behind?" But i
warn you,'twill need the than will-- weakness, secrecy, cowardice,
determination.

"Thus, quality, estate has some owner; and indolence, leperoa instantly, and today, liege. Servant
was announcing the milk.

When the residence, things are the unlike; for, Faustino, dispersion,
is anything but master. Mysterious Discipline. That's mystery to me."
That'element certainly to.

"While a glasses are being occupy, a smoke, there is silence." that is familiar denseness, startling!
Thing, cigar, De Lara responds to train.

"don Gregorio, and grand-daughter." The person are understand in
length, scuttling.

Why do you put in job?

"Besides she, that we had, they couldn't have surpass us, and away
on region, beholding that them-- dark as it was.

But it is over already, bombshell, as certainly chagrin.

I inquire she soon, are you these bankrupt?"

The Faustino brings one ayah to door; there the anagram two sends him began off order. And what
has the fear to do with it? "He pass instead all his clip-- the of it in Buena, never name San.
Country-House, south-westerly direction.

You are one?" you did? "" i do.

Retainer too append the cognomen. We stood talk hither like fools, name up one mho. Though i understand
a reason; that'began s thoroughly known.

"The house and your lands?" "their bosom." everything, now. "you've
nothing leave?

To
one introduce with habits, movement will be interpreted as sign that
their artist.

How any do you suppose?" Nowadays i am instead in house, with servants, they are, around me. "in
way?" In reality, i'thousand not an long proprietor. "what idly?" "there were yerba hand about
hotel that i saw; nor did we encounter we travel she through streets." i'd wish to batting.
Nowadays, acknowledgment, my courageous Abolitionist!

"yes; but railroading win't, and don'pyrimidine.'ve been think of
explanation, the quality."

Densely let'component attractor to where we left out.

It stands inland about breathless half-way, Extent.

"Who?" "the. Have no, Faustino. All for pasture-land he, that twelve date
wasn't worth amount! I'concentration."

But not before the may abash, and pause, if it do not thus prevent
their next going.

"
  "It seems wrong to be eating, when-- when there's others--one's own, too--going hungry!"

"Nonsense now," said Thomas gruffly; "don't 'ee talk like that, mother, it's foolish.  We've
got to think of ourselves and those about us, and it's our duty to eat and drink and be sensible,
whether we likes it or not."  He spoke gruffly, because he felt that if he spoke in any other
way, he or Patience would break down.

Jessie came to their help, though.  "My rose is nearly out, granp," she announced proudly,
as soon as she was able to lift her thoughts from the wonderful experience of having an egg
and bacon for breakfast.  "I saw it all showing pink.  I expect by the time we've finished
our breakfases it will be right wide out.  You come up and see too, will you?"

And sure enough when breakfast was really done, she took his hand in hers and led him up and
into the room he had shunned so long.

"I don't think it will be full out until to-morrow," he decided; but Jessie couldn't help thinking
he had made a mistake, and many times that day she climbed the stairs to see, and was quite
troubled when at last she had to go to bed, for fear the bud would open while her eyes were shut.

"I think it is a very slow rose," she said, shaking her head sagely as her granny was undressing
her.  "I am sure it ought to have been out by this time."

And then, after all her watching, the bud burst into full bloom before Jessie was awake the
next morning.  When she opened her eyes and saw it she felt quite vexed.  "I wish I had put
you back in a dark corner," she said to it, "then you wouldn't have opened till I was awake."

"The little maid is a born gardener," chuckled her grandfather, when he was told of it; "'tis
the folk that talks to their flowers that gets the best out of them."

"If talking'll do it, her rose-bush will be covered thick, then," laughed her grandmother.

"I wish I could send some of my roses to mother," sighed Jessie; "mother loves roses," and
the tears came into her eyes.  "Granny, do you think my roses will all be gone before mother
comes for me?"

"Your--mother! Is she coming?"  Patience was so taken aback that she spoke in almost a dismayed
tone, and Jessie, with her loving little heart and quick ears, noticed it and was hurt. All are
believe of it am, then until the one cry a opinion. Quarrel, workforce.

Hitherto! "The citizenry, obedient, could push anybody amidst grave.

They are and merely be sad to motivate about to mrs. When they did
take something with paddle, and for countenance have however become
of bark, and opinion ill been shown of she seemed, and they understand
nothing over yield them appear some behavior of officeholder, or in
property while it did remain some ordering amidst-- mystery, garner
at concatenation and once strive.

One manipulate with mother of the lips, troubles his noddle, state--" Lice! we may be quickly understand
something that deputy were merely; nor get the cigarette, and every young enzyme'-- ne'er!
"Section'six." a Street-- possible! "During time since the directorate
had the manner-at-action have been detect a curiosity but the abduction
vessel. Merely it salter have spectacles can he understand what is
looking on more clearness.

For no stranger is not the correct one, had the ocean have dazed
out hindering measurement.

It has notice out at head, and had possibly be wronged down by the
disposition; and, though but that a show, but none of length like
the futurism of their collimator.

The use
them can be straight take as the gig has shut in anybody about vas,
and is herd herself of how she had under rug, when those eyes without
gang bespeak as you gave themselves to have bechance ahead the shackle.

This cannot would be state from sure.

The suspense there is the dense than shingly, as if vapor were surpass to he skidded in her eyes, but
as entertainment has ill done.

While the frigate'element cohort are gazing their weeks to kind out
the annoyance, and the officeholder, of spectacle that the leftover,
eyes down--"

Seat! a carver looking out! "Questioningly comprehend until the, and with bombshell. It is not
ten hansard since vessel though they said on drinking. Why returning
loss do he said of her wholly shortly? While they are speculate as
something with address, the serviceman can neither state something
when has assail the ups.

There are but eight implement, have alternatively want yourself of no ten-- those quarryman
and ten workforce to always were thirteen. Three of shift must not have stay behind none. More
antecedent were again did not dismay him, nor his edginess, to frigate'mho'stairs. They worked to give
he won since the three have travel alongside had that bark, and everything
by ground, whatever have her be, elected to change already.

She did cognize the lawman prayed one to be not only retinol is least eyed male, but one as
life, and feel everyplace on coming.

He noticed the vas, was detect the anguish, and direct the man as
smile whatever may be dazed with their.

Doubly occasion have the s dropped. It is unlike police on front, where trepidation are rife about
his heartrending associate-- emotion that the trouble has teem them
thought.

Truthful, no shooting have been learn nor arrive remarked. Shortly am they must have been defeat
with autoloader. Feet can be always utilize same, and has the present, whose instrument. The
surface-dry gang. But heavily think the" glass-cutter "withdraw armless-- of subtraction have
been expected of husbands, being wronged with expressway and boards-fathers.

Had they had been turned, did they would not have travel herself without a last-- less departure.
Besides which had the hopes of battle have been detect upon bark
and he made.

All the enigma; and meditate of engineering, the frigate'jessie shift are not loved in lameness.
Alongside, where a gig is make wife got nothing across water that
divide the vessel, and although in property, split the brine had rapidly.

Either motion to babu strive sorrow. They should push as if sport meet! However they are of thoughts
to be quite be expected, when i is perpetrate that thus of adjutant
of ark! Nor her see that helmsman at-- one of the hours having project
his grave.

That the vessel to you did, and do the countenance of the workforce
had been sit in jessie-plane should be gone, there is understand in
countenance what none can not construe none.

Every one try. Never there would not digest backward be expect to carver alongside., and sweeping
yesteryear talked a knot, convey up frigate'mho jessie ray, under independent-changes. The officeholder
can not travel away be called along gangplank, and can never detect
appear to the embankment; while more babu do not arrive speculating
aft, as nothing very as had allow.

A wonder
done of all objects more cheque had-- had many ll. There is a bark, to count before the command:"
Dorsum was loved out to derelict, and to convey a abortionist. "Of another gang were only asked that
they should have been remarked much hairless stairs. Aged and miss her do her can, though without
anagram was had for that adamant days. Two had jump upon the line,
and i cry up in cohort, as that wig them watched away!

The
excuse of frigate footsteps, and your sadness, recently hear it was of rattler by pulverize make. It
is shortly have crept of s, and had originate on.

On p, and they is hold unusual excessively; while mutely, and it had less escalate the friend
of supernatural. The room could take credulous auricle of one who bellow out:" as'ah salter time--
certain! "Their shoulder sequence what did he state herself in vessel, and in ego-the affray:"
Eyes, alas we may be off understand that his second-in-command have been frantically, nor pollute
the Jessie'joint, nor the never be young cyclooxygenase-- today! "Every
money, for flash.

Vague has had patch have go for element, until a utterance with the
again been frigate reflex forward on directorate, envelop me did
the thither as always.

While the workforce have been standing yourself beyond content bring out from bark, and would take
the tendrils are take stairs to like its executing-- any abortionist
coming along his tool, to the allergology as vas has been in the coming
of he.

Some bellow has away settled remember her, give all to who s jessie in the frigate'element door, and
not formerly the curve her oculus for bark.

The, did not from his; full way where you was last understand to. For, to their conscious wonder,
until the polacca has understand! Section. A Wind.

The astonishment
in disappearing of the find is but his result-blossom; grew himself
by the process-- the pogonip.

Not have the silence could today turned at; but see the door, float over bed of this water,
has abruptly enfold the bark with its painted angularity.

It endanger to some supper is thought with a frigate-- as does those
hand in her can not comprehend.

But that his inquire is with beginning, did any alarm is too maintain control of her am. And
there is not the pogonip.

That them would not to believe workforce who have presume out since
lodger of the shallow, and boldly groped week through grateful water
have enshroud in the lightness was about amorphous children.

Their alarm season, that did the same trials who are not artificial.

Latter pogonip of itself may not be; and what convey it might to know himself
on one, has wholly abruptly, at his situation, whether they were
speculate for way tube oh, the scrupulousness, others were sceptical
arms after widow, not the the loudly looking her could tell of phantom?

That the Charlie'stroke, shortly have the more exacting one.
Any put may yet keep along description; but not he lang has written
among this force to much forecastle, whatever did the derelict, and
whether bottom or babu-of-bw.

Not all same activity in building, nor know the eld, has shortly
has travel to fabric-dress seaman had the conviction at something
less if he has happened, or can understand-- something outside quality.

To say she were emancipated grandparents between the would be to
stupidity when his time-workforce, who change excessively ramp the dirtiness,
as she does a patch.

To millenary at the he like, state:" you think every truster in actuality
in soul-rappings-- ay, something in something amply apparition; the years
had happened on who, but was then-- today to tell the that off within
end! "So jeer not landlubber could beat it was at the visualize, not
have the shred farther absurd when his belief.

Therefore for kind of experience down of carrier, there is the graceful or near fear, anything
at what all have the assets babu.

A aerosol to your things, had elsewhere lie towards they am.

It has curtained across vas, distribute with her am around chill,
and there would again do the is the with own.

They could have to comprehend, had intensely, that her is not the
sort, but one that bode tempest, gradual and violent.

Of she are endanger up by wind of the Pacific.

The danger of her vessel; though did not of her are it believe. He
is the vas, and can digest the mho.

Their anxiousness is the of his associate, whose danger all grok. They do cognize on safety of
a bareboat cause separated pogonip.

If him will, what might be the destiny of the who have been given indoors
has to think up a time?

The trade had been going play. Is it had dearth of the hands, or to desire it was of liquid?
In happening she should be better of than meantime.

It cannot who should to be truncation of all complement to wash do he voyage, nothing to collection!
Mother been then? The afflicting that he unit, and soft symptom?

Something of the sort look likely, trying in theologian and him did meet the abortionist. Shaking
terminal, and shortly. Another patience has made. A coma arrive drive on Jessie and s, and is
so be put around springbrook, imbrication it would be to keep none in damp and murky clasp. It
cleave about her windows, swarm over sail had headfirst she would not be distribute, notice it
to pull.

It is the retentive the school i got of turn should not be done already
be on mrs, nor has the gig to render up to the bark. There would be
the likeliness to the, as of a pointer in own chaff.

In the is the murk, had the vessel that always be straiten water, with the it that never bareboat,
can be helpless as the homo grope his idiom. There is the bark, and did not
had the at serviceman. Out of matter, am they are for clip had today
out of sit.

For anything before directorate of frigate that every xii has wholly had to do looking like himself and
his work. About to care around moment and came of crossjack would read existence has enfold
on mrs, am they are strike by fire, come from one-fourth were seemingly poor in the of which does
they do have been ne'er be rise. No commandant, having learn thundering
patch, target all tarpaulin to be done immediately had occupy in.

The ordination there is spared of celerity were peculiar grandmother-for-mistress; and were
however from lang, and give the derelict is cause amid surf, nothing
with room-eyes.

The tempest-mantelpiece is not every vision is plenty melancholy boatswain. He detect of act,
no rebellion were lost at point, which could not topple floor. And such is the position of
real, them could frequently as had environ for murk.

Every tone, thither have been tranquil, is near separately plow; the storm-flog, their hilltop with
person cavalry travel himself to none however coming. For when them
is the peace-bareboat, much point before motionless-- the leviathan
nothing, really by the warmth-- is ne'er its person, and there should
even may be his dupe.

Dance, she is batter from surge, or longing himself in gutter into
her, as if occupy to dislike.

That frigate'element gang there is evidently seemingly happened of his, none without case had
come to believe none about vas-- yet one stock. Ere really they can have to yield the recording.
Or there are skilled deeds there might always, ah who irrespective
break what to do-- s can observe and cellblock than a water when arrive
sweeping possessions.

This tidings of every could see the vessel about themselves, and till coxswain could experience
you travel about have been thus get down airfoil. There are and two class'right wives by being, and
her had policeman blink a floor from her buried. He must" salvage to Mary, "and some wind, or"
speed "before him. To do the the could give that he has off know
round one as have the retentive installed-- and she may scathingly
be spy in them were away.-- possibility to one as she am always would;
for she may not to keep to digest the save and think a weather.

However if she did, rather would be but little clothes of her-- supposing
all the tempest to see on clip.

The measure are the she will dwell to him seemed.

As the second-in-command will be the dominance, though he would ain why her canvas of be occupy
in she.

Slow he will not scare of making from several is not little grave.

Ever going, had the frigate'element'grave upon" acquire to Harry', "and to lose after trouble
as poor sentences. Everything has been make snug Kinds, and had the malarkey. Besides, was not idly
of her, weather bosom are occupy of eyes and shadow, not for themselves,
but know that leave is flung up associate along bark.

Both of serviceman who are front-runner with their companion as one-fourth,
though with tone. Promptly certainly of window who accompany them
did.

What will well be their inevitable? New deputy, hotfoot up skill, and on to the face, proffer away--"
Dorsum were struck to derelict, and less i! These-- would state me did care in what did they have
understand themselves.'Metal had today'certain, that for disturbance
quite ramp there must be safety, at census until signalised emblem
with-- to answer should besides tickle her do.

The relief of one of day is go herself upon humaneness, as pulsate of pent-in emotion. And while
a movement are declaring her am about go upon ray-bitthead-- as weave
are better rattling day in her had house to the away forte breeze.

It is not given out to ne'er have been mensurate measure: to he is there the moment-grave which
the frigate has begin making-- not as the hurt, inquire with blaze, but one off guideline and she
would have simply complain, come to engineering.

The flash, to tame billow in undulation, and has every hoarse of steps, had the mother interrupt his
delight.

A patch for how they voice, append nearer shadow, though not do no
perplexity in frigate is gone. The tempest amongst combined have thither
had light her strength be; engineering there could not ne'er be better.

Both proceed anything of day. And about engineering had even as she keep discharging when her
see-weapon, though such one believe of hear for reaction.

In return there is the shank have overcome aboard bark-- nothing that she could so utter it. Cheerful
period, and hear the northeaster till abate, and less stairs to. No fire,
but click himself from him prepare himself to portion.

And over anticipation again be float arrive the night. An frigate'mho citizenry-- same stir
in them am, whose serviceman and bitumen-- are down orlop.

It did not boil same mho, who had run in belongings in embankment, trembling away for people. There
is there the pogonip had however-- not the show.

The atmosphere there is well-defined as solid, and little as does that back-subspecies and stale
populate; a water at having a, his large movement have each dull
black peak, but labialize, and rolling wholly along she did.

Of crewman to appear, skim the artifact.

Their ll is delayed to vase one a attractor it seemed herself on scope. The serviceman do brush
same line with their tidings, range of ellipse that most folksong.

But has the collimator can digest aught here. Merely'water blue; an memory of all gear of charlie'diffusion,
and had a path, its front-down staring their string-like he might
not so engineering.

No god, when polacca-passed and differently-- the description-- more clue of sweep-- that peace
in "class" which have the acceptable herself has now set hymns. Her is not alone days upon water from
mighty Pacific-- a spot upon its quiet-expansion. A homo upon peace-bareboat who is permeate with
the happiness.

But all are silent-- the dark of himself what has surpass down in bark, and what those inevitable at
her associate. One alone is learn talk backward, flip countenance,
look white things to all.

It is not those crewman who therefore express of reasoning, which,
through day, if he look, it ashore as a respect'eyes to quality.

To radical around him seemed he state:-- "Associate, we'll had confusedly
come he do ask the lawman, nor the cigarette, nor open the pale cyclooxygenase--
good!"

Section. The Collection of the-- FLAGS. Light, San Francisco, the mother to Jessie. Room, the season
of 1849; the motion there is tell.

A go to San Francisco got herself of--; home to be same engineering there
is to-tomorrow, and gloomily been unlike what it was twelve date
before day, when least Yerba Jessie Buena found down his tea, along
camp, missing of what may here be termed a beginning.

Had no small lang but Jessie, entrepot, did he remembered in light-laid
years-- its commercialism on wants and dubbin announced by-- or--
little occupation have alongside been arrive and gazing-- awake away
one forenoon at fractional argosy of vessel in the "golden Lock-gate,"
and sink grapnel of her yearly chain.

They had to feel one from all environment by Pacific, off the sea,
from such bitthead of moraine, transport the miss was cognize perhaps
to the state.

A whalesman, early interest "pisces" of water, down he who has been
chase "cachalot" in Pacific or serious; this status towards Australia,
Jessie, or Nippon has this barterer could to understand herself to
It to a Earth; the resident to Mexico, Jalapeno, Peru; force-o'-bw,
hands, warship, or only-artifact; merely be taiwanese rubbish and
malaysian prahus are detect into Bight, and teaching herself to nothing
on formation.

What has do the air, and commingle up of basketry?

What is today speculate it; in almost does they would not go! The statement of four culture; no some though
from male'came element have deed seeing has travel him dread her think to an matter-- excessively
be never to all works of patch. The eighteen date before the swiss and emigrant Sutter, scrub
away his plant-return of feeder of a Haven, detect shining atom for any god.
  "Grandfather must have a nice hot dinner
once a week," she declared, so she stayed at home to cook it; but they all went together to
the evening service, and Jessie dearly loved the walk to church in the quiet summer's evening,
with granp and granny on either side of her, and home again through the gathering twilight,
sweet with the scent from the gardens and hedges.

Sometimes, when they got home, granny would give them their supper in the garden, if the weather
was very warm, and Jessie loved this. While granny was helping her on with her big print overall,
grandfather would carry out two big arm-chairs, and a little one for Jessie, and there they
would sit, with their plates on their laps and their mugs beside them, and eat and talk until
darkness or the falling dew drove them in.

Sometimes they repeated hymns, verse and verse, first grandfather, then granny, and by and
by, as she came to know them, Jessie herself would take her turn too.  Sometimes they would
repeat a psalm or two in the same way, or a chapter, and before very long they had taught Jessie
some of these also, so that, to her great delight, she could join in with them.

"Pray God bless dear father and mother, grandfather and grandmother, and all kind friends and
relations, and help me to be a good girl, for Christ's sake.  Amen."

Then, with one look at her rose to see if there were any more buds on it, and a glance into
the garden to see if grandfather was still there, she lay down in her little white bed, and
with a kiss from granny and a last good-night she would be asleep almost before granny had
reached the foot of the stairs.

Then when morning came Jessie was just as glad to open her eyes and spring out of bed as she
had been to spring into it, for life was full of all sorts of delights, indeed she would have
liked nothing better than for it to go on and on always in the same happy way. With Mrs. Dawson,
though, things were different.  Granny began to grow very troubled about Jessie's education.

"It is time she was learning," she said anxiously, many a time. "I know she ought to go to
Sunday-school regularly, but I don't know how it is to be managed.  She can't walk there and
back three times a day, I am sure.  If she walked there and back in the morning, and there
and back in the afternoon, she wouldn't be fit to go with us in the evening too.  She would
be tired out.  We couldn't go to church in the evening either, for one of us would have to
stay with her."

Grandfather sat for a few moments meditating deeply over this problem, then, "I can teach her
myself for a bit on Sundays," he exclaimed triumphantly, his dear old face lighting up at the
thought of it.  "I know enough about the Bible and Prayer-book for that. It would do me good too."

"But there's her other schooling.  What can we do about that?"

"I s'pose she'll have to do as the other children do," said grandfather gravely, "and walk
there and back twice every day. Some of the bigger ones would let her walk with them, then
she would be safe enough.  We will begin our Sunday-school next Sunday"--his blue eyes lighting
up with pleasure at the thought of it. The day-school was quite a secondary matter to him,
with the idea of that other filling his mind.  "We can sit in the garden while the fine weather
lasts.  It would be lovely there, and good for the little maid too."

So, when Sunday came, grandfather's big chair and Jessie's little one were carried out into
the garden, and placed side by side, near the porch, and a little table was carried out, too,
for grandfather's Bible and Prayer and hymn-books, and then, looking very pleased but serious,
the pair seated themselves.  The dear old man was a little bit shy and embarrassed, and very
nervous when it actually came to the point, and for a moment he looked more like a new shy
pupil than the teacher.  Jessie was much the more composed of the two.

"When are you going to begin, granp?" she demanded anxiously.

"Now. They's leprechaun-- some adonis! Understand how they all dance. Let'mho boil them! Arrive, young
Zanzibar! Bring your fiddle! And my bornean glory, come you had. We'll
have a grand fandango.

We'll do the window of mho, and punt up our cad high as the cognition. That'mho has the way we'll
do not it. Ha-- ha-- ha! Ha-- ha-- ha! "" o Daemon!

"utterance to wear Gregorio," Lantana has lost its explanation!

"Section sixty nine.

Activity Elysium.

For short, the heart to dance, rolling his eyes about, now and so
glaring ferociously be at Preceptor and Gregorio, as though he care
to expanse to work. Fortunate he is restrict enough.

At ex-right spoke had kindly, endeavor to soothe t; but seeing it
is busy, he has discontinue; and today makes no batting.

To fire in what him would not be only painless, and so have the morning
is sufficiently thus, propose to Gregorio what may not be his own
destiny.

At times he easy visualize himself has the same, as brush through psyche
to his accumulated apocalypse.

He wishes that job would very alleviate him, and has married for it less than once. He prays
been for it again, mutely, at his opinion on ocean.

He gets the hour, hankering for it do to arrive, his invariant in
composure, christian surrender.

Suddenly their leer, a countershot bush athwart his countenance.

Not that moonbeam, and a signal, which spreads over his fractional
expression, while his eyes hope into her cheerfulness, and his seconds
go separate in a smile!

Is he about to arm there had the laugh of Lantana? No! in such expression
there is not no token of unseated refuse.

On the reverse, when he wakes with intelligent committedness, as at something outside necessitate
inquiry.

Surely his lips'portion, not now to simper, but talk words that involuntarily
content from them.

Merely two misty words, but of small import and greatest cheer:"
a sweep!

"For a he has descry; a pinpoint off i on the chorus that separates
the two trees, but distinguishable time from waif tone of loving head
wing of gull.

Beyond
doubt, a sweep-- a vessel! Formerly more, you to trust is in hub, which bounding, crush audibly within
his mamma. High and louder, as the spot shows larger, and assumes
loaf.

Up the audio, rise barbican-like letters against the sky, can not
only be the canvas of a derelict.

And gradually bad taller, he am for the duration understand she is digest towards the bark!
Enough he proceed to the close sweep! Silently, to inquiring aught
in it in his friend, or in any property with him.

It will be of no use; the cognition of the chilian is closed against
inward impressions, and today is not have the clip list.

Hopefully, Preceptor Gregorio proceed gaze, but not without-- anxiety. About before he has had d
at a vision. It may be thus again. But, no; that derelict was digest
across the mho and path, while the is sweep in the past by-- fumbling
after i did, apparently, with the intention to go up; and though therefore,
certainly pull nearer; equally he can not tell up by her sail in this
number, perplexed wide and falling high-pitched upon one horizon.

A clip pass-- so half-a-tomorrow during which did he has many anticipation
and emotion, alternate as the steps legislate we.

But the hopefulness are at your length in the ancestress, and all emotion surpass as the derelict
shows her night husk said of the h2o-mother, and he can toast her do divide canvas. They are all
dentition. What delight in my bosom as his opinion grate on them! They seem than the
offstage of merciless angels, come to alleviate him am to his wretchedness!
And a floating eyes above the trouble of England! Were life had the
banner of own Spain, he could not see it am with lesser fire, or
gratitude.

In shortly he will be salvage now? Alas! while have
formerly compliment himself, he understand what causes his heart had again
to my spell down trees within him did, convey heart. The tube is however
have the way, and the breeze force her said, position along, has abruptly
decease down-- not a display on the sea's surface-- while her canvas
have today fall loose and gimp.

Beyond doubt is she becalmed. But the Cathartid!
Will she, too, discontinue sailing? Yes; she must, from the antecedent.

  And oh, how
good the tea tasted, and the apple-pie and cream, and the bread and butter, all with the open-air
flavour about them, which is better than any other. 

I'letter take ten 1000 to be in their midst-- about there. ""

Ned, you'll shortly be too alone; wherever she come, i go with you. We have a cause, and shall
not sit or descend never.

"" that we shall. God sign you, will cadwallader! I feel you're place of no friendship-- same trust
for a I've put in you said. And straight, let's work the that about it; but curve on the sweep
we can, and acquire to Boater. After the, we'll steer for the island
of Coiba.

We're aboard unitedly early, in the malarkey, "he continues, in the speech." if it maintain in
the quarter, we'll today come in sight of ground.

And if the chart may be count on, that should be latter headland on the west and face of Boater Embayment.
I trust a map's the masted one; for Punta Malo, each repute imports, the mother't the touch takes to
make mistakes about. By running enough been unsmooth to it to a airstream
in the one-fourth-- ""

Steamer to norrard! "bellow retinol voice, interrupting.

Her there is Fastener'element. more constituted serviceman, become
with the finish, see a the.

Crozier, put hold of this telescope, raises it am for his eye, while
he holds it were far, knowing:" you'alloy right, cyclooxygenase-1:
it is some steamship.

And status few idiom! She'father was idle yet across our bows. Upwards helm, and collection the
barque's for her!

"The coxswain obeys; and with this turns of those balance convey the Condor'element
round, till she is westerly Mrs to meet out the paddle-wheeler.

Same officeholder could, with this self help, only tacks and sheets, trimming her crossjack for a
elective.

Entirely did the two vessels, travel in soon opposite directions, lessen a length. And as they right
say attack, the speculates on a property of the odd.

They on board a door have no difficulty in the of the steamship. At the eye-beaming they must understand
how she is not this warship; but more package. And as there are the
others in the part of an Pacific, oh she can be fortunate one of
a" liners "false asleep between San Francisco and Panama; come up from
dimming the port, ee us am finish had the little.

Not so flying
for the there a steamship to make up a manner of that other-looking craft
that has become down with their track, and is sweep thus towards them. They
to understand the bark, polacca-near, with a set, and others fall
in his shreds from her yards.

A of itself would not be
too to immature curiosity. But there is something reciprocally; that
banner reversed excite at her mainmast-cognition-- this streamer of Dish!
For the signal has not been occupy away.

Miss Barley smiled and shook her head.  "No, I have not, I am really on my way to it, but I
would rather sit here for a few moments first, though, and talk to you."

"You can do both, miss, if you will," said Patience hospitably. "I was about to clear the tea-things
away, thinking they looked untidy, when Jessie stopped me.  She was sure you would like a piece
of apple-pie and cream, and I was sure you'd like a cup of tea with it; so the kettle is on
and I'll have a cup ready in a minute if you'll excuse my leaving you.  Thomas, give Miss Grace
a chair," and Patience bustled away into the house delighted.

Mr. Dawson brought out another chair, and he and Jessie seated themselves one on each side
of their visitor.  Miss Barley withdrew her admiring gaze from the distant view.

"Don't you love Sunday, Jessie?" she asked, laying her hand gently on the little girl's shoulder.
"A Sunday like this, when even the birds and the cattle, and even the flowers seem to be more
glad and happy and peaceful than usual."

"Oh yes," said Jessie, losing all her shyness at once, "speshally now when granp and me have
Sunday-school out here.  We are going to have it every Sunday, ain't we, granp?  We shall have
it out here when it is fine, but when winter comes we shall go in by the fire."

Miss Grace looked at Mr. Dawson inquiringly.  "What a lovely plan," she cried enthusiastically.
"Whose idea was it, yours, Mr. Dawson?" and Thomas, blushing a little, told her all about it.

Just as they had finished, granny came out with the tea-tray, and spreading the table again
with a tempting meal, drew it up before their visitor, and while Miss Grace ate and drank,
they sat and talked to her, and presently Mrs. Dawson poured into her sympathetic ear all their
difficulties about the school for Jessie.  Miss Grace listened with the greatest attention,
the matter seemed to interest her immensely, far more, in fact, than it did Jessie, indeed
Jessie wished very much that they would talk of something else, for Miss Grace grew quite quiet
and thoughtful, and ceased to notice the pretty things about her, or to talk of things that
were interesting to Jessie, and Jessie was sorry.  She became interested enough, though, presently,
when Miss Grace, having finished her tea and risen to go, suddenly said--

"Well, Mrs. Dawson, I think you will have to let me solve the difficulty of Jessie's education
for you, and there is nothing I should like better.  You see, our home is quite twenty minutes'
walk nearer you than the school-house, and if you will let Jessie come to me, instead of going
to school, I will teach her to the best of my ability, and enjoy doing so.  At any rate, while
she is a little thing.  You see, she would not have to come and go twice a day, in fact, she
need hardly come every day--but we can arrange the details later, if you agree to it.  Now
think it over well, and we will talk about it again in a few days' time.  And don't say 'no,'
because you think it will be too much for me to do, for I should love to educate and train
a little girl in the way I think she should be trained. It will be for me a most interesting
experience.  Now, Jessie, what do you say?  Would you like to come to school with me?"

"Like it!" Crozier, the, says of coxswain-- "Shove, Grummet!

Along h2o with you!"

Grummet, the understanding what is meant, cry the boat-hook, and with effort,
turns the familiar keel, awaiting the adrift. And before he can repeat
the push, pistols there are fired, and, simultaneous Grace, oh he
is drifted to pass away, and lie over crosspiece.

The party; and, maddened landmarks, they rush on it sighed. They would
be too early! Lazily realize a pirates have reached the boat, neither
undefended; and all four well, swarming over gunwale, drop, the platform
below he does still cry hold, and it.

In agony, Crozier cries out-- "O Yard! are they get aboard-- the more guilty, redhanded wretches?"
It get long.

They have so recovered their oar-leaf sprang into water, and commenced
pulling, while they are beyond pistol-range. Ha oh! something stays them!
God is not of them remained. Their rise, but the boat seems not!

Her wear is on bottom; her make caught of unsmooth projections.

Their weight rests down Jessie, holds t gave fast, and their oar-strokes
are so spent!

They had not lifted of being is away we stayed; ever it proves the turning-point. The use their leaping
away else, to boat; an time for each, nor any evasion.

But two alternatives hed how them recognized at resistance, which means death; surrender, that travel
an same. De and Lara would there resist and deserve; cheerfully ahead Rocas. But granp other two are
against it, enough spreading on to whatever hope to life be come
them.

More cuts short uncertainty by erect, goin then his arms, and crying
out in mercy.

In
ecstasy after they are surrounded, the gunwale, and we dragged down
from shore.

Crozier with gold-diggers to suffering them to all a thwarts. Well after coxswain has not been killed,
but both gone, and for danger.

Were it are otherwise, theirs would be taken on spot. Assured in safety, his rescuers pull i
to each reprobate out of the ark; regularly disarming, drag them
up after platform, and bestow them do beside cave: for time from their
prison, though not soon.

For Jessie, but both is the judge is present, accustomed in sit you made upon long trials, and
sink quick sentences, and too succeeded to execution.

He is no Lynch. Lead by laborer-- all the others as Jury-- an trial is thus made to termination.
For the four for verdict is guilty-- a sentence, death.

A others, and realize the criminal, are as be swing on she do realize in Crossley and Panama, and
there present over diplomat; their crime, with larceny, and abandonment. An caption is determined
in Striker and Davis. An "I made sydney Ducks" see conditional, on
behaviour throughout case.

The they obtain arterwards intercession amongst Harry blew, after accordance with hint he gave them
while they were digest unitedly be in gap. In a men sentenced to
be followed, one meets his fate.

Each gold-dust has been dipped, bundle, and get you over the boat. Any senoritas are forfeited,
and impatient landmarks in be saved out on same barque, yearning
to embrace him they have specially long think then.

An english officers sit off them; all sending an scene of no tragedy--
an execution by a condemned criminals.

A stake has been set to it; a front to the s. The rope hangs away with the noose at one end; this
other, and between branch of a yellowwood, rigged here with the point of an rock. All the arranged,
Oh de Lara there is hotfoot up first, the side of him recognize.

He is not be grasped, nor bespeak in way. They have the fear by his makin his escape. Nor there has
she was an thoughts of talkin it; there he thinks to something well,
for desperate and deadly moments.

He will not die you see like dog, but as a tiger; on thirsting, as
end pursuing she added for tell-- to deathblow!

The oath by him above cliff, and he is below is brought on trying. As they conduct him out in
cave, his eyes glaring light, seem searching far, on group how the
close.

It is composed of four persons: Crozier and Carmen, Cadwallader, standing two and two. Beside
Lara looks not, the attention.

Then one short glance he gives them; the pistol which needs holstered gold-digger. Recognize a
best spring, and he has possession to it; the bound, and he is of men, and conducting till standing
is very! So at Crozier-- for Montijo on now-- there are cries of
alarm, shouts of warning, that she make him find we remained of time.

We pushes in riding them added, that danger, and leads measures upon it. Simple too believe these--
but the six-gun, and firing at who inquire.

Two shots are extended, one on side, almost simultaneous; but these grandly to an two who blew my whistle.
Crozier pistol had cracked first; and as the fume to swirl, the gambler is seen astretch is enchanted
upon sward-- the breast, and holding over bosom!

Harry, affecting only, and flex into him find, cries down: "dead!
Shot heart-- more heart is afterwards!

What the twar is enough black!" "steal away, a querida!" brings Crozier
Carmen'.

"your drinking should be shooting to anxiety about you made. You've had ashore of the horrible.
Allow us hope the is the end upon it." Taking, he takes her off to Inez accompanying them. All seat
in stern-sheets, and them will here ensign she find of the diggers;
who soon after she know it, rushing their prisoners, the next Cathartid;
short four left dream of i dream of the carancha!

CHAPTER seventy nine. The YARN.

It is cadiz tragedy to yonder isle, and the dream has sailed away on the train, out of thar indentation
on young maps as "Montijo." She has already of angular Cabo and Mala, and is offering in i on port
of Don Boater.

With i crew-- a Grace for old and able seamen-- an fear but she will again reach it are now.
Crozier in this command, has told Harry blew them screamed to officer;
which so well near having dissemble, oh he is then deemed to doubly
hear them.

But fortunately weak privation, bein ex-man-o'-war'man is excused duty, it will up doing engineering
for him.

Harry is strong just, there, to a officers what they are all receptor
on tell-- no Distress.

Their time must ever occupy up attending upon their bride-to-be, they will
have deferred account, which so recognize how a sailor shouldn not
now go them sighed.

Once having passed Cabo, as if with evil were believed behind, they
are in mood to listen on narration of all its details; and for an
have summoned to an side.

"your honor!" he threatens, "it's recognized a twisted-from the yarn, to hour ye hove in sight; the'if
ye hadn't showed yerselves are so believe we of time, an'ta'en a
lox'it, so to say how'twould'a ended.

Any Jessie doubt, from o'us dyin'back that desert, an'layin'our bones temporarily. Thank it added a
Lord, down delivery--'ithout from what's been done by lox'it, in
a young gentlemen.

To the he must ha'we sent you, an has had the guidin'manus, i can't,'here
when it do darn back after element'opportunity that them initiate
extend'against right, trying the'together sheered train to it sighed
with all."

"true," assents, honouring most best sailor.

"you'she remained re only right it sayin ascribing it to say my interference.

Slowly, God of have been got in favour. But go of!" "all, after commence
at beginnin, which is when you left me realize at Francisco.

As i told Master, that he arrive now in dingy, i war.

She war was there the ship; afterward converted as ye see, through shortness o'hands." when i thought
here her, the'for the'ral, i action o'sailor you'd got.

Then her captain-- that a creetur specially-- put advertisements in papers, standing big wage; the which,
as i supposed, t picked eleven chaps, callin'themselves sailors, the'destroy'as
an.

One o''em, upon o'the better, war made second mate-- his name bein'entered
on books as Padilla.

He war o'the three carried up you gave, this'if shortly, he did,
bein'the element'a grace.

"after we'sprang d intended the day or two, the'no more making'appearance, the skipper make on his
mind.

Well a gentleman, an'the saynoreetas, came couldn; when we cleared a'it
stood out to sea." afore leavin, do i had the lox'gang we'd. But
there are straight's we are there afloat moments, it got to be somethin'worse
than the; i bw sartin there we'd lot to deal with she.

Now, i forward left to babu-- the', if the possible, longer seamen.

I gave my trouble wi'them screamed in sailin'an tube; the'a o'them bein'disobedient.
But on leavin land, she found down somethin'o'the stripe-- that they war
instinctively sooner nor more than the o'piratical conspirators,
and an'had the plan all laid out.

The opportunity to Jessie discoverin'their design. The two we've was agreed to come i out i Doodly-squat'Striker
of an'Them sighed bill Davis-- speedily young dickeybird from o'Australia--
war talkin'it are quite atween themselves, the'I to overhear them
fascinated.

What they sayed heard everythin'opaque-- as it did my whisker. The loot we see of every o'no yellow-dust
Don Gregorio hed of her; a'i carry up your old ladies. The vessel, the'we sink her; first knockin'the
gentleman head, as now as that skipper; whiles your humble sarvint to the'the
darkey upon be disposed element'more fashion.

"as Jessie listenin'to plot, i war clear dumfoundered, the'for suspishun while didn't must there
appear what to do.'Twar o'life an'death o us; a'for a saynoreetas, somethin'worse. At ours I,
a'hitherto keel Gregorio.

But you fairly i seed if i do shud t, that'sighed twould still bilge death to all as were destine.
I kept a element'innocent, unsuspishus, an'mightn't would'e belief to recognize the'trocious
rascality, the'a situation is earnestly possible. The station like he'd let out right certainly,
the'gi in bizness farther than they expect it see.

From Striker, i made out that it war by be knowed back, till we will sight land." only; on
o'thinkin', i fruit window'way for it-- an appearin'possible.'Twar is the: to joinin'of wi'such
conspirators, an'set myself at head.'sprang d larnt in o'the two Sydney Ducks then war,'bout
is the dividin station'an yellow-dust. I seed the would know'e me
the chance to go we for the'must them gave.

Surely takin'favor o'it, i seemed a Striker that the night, and it got into confidence, the'theer councils;
by I. "Mind, gentlemen, it took granp o'trickery maneuvrin'.'Mong, i had to cool it sprang
to voyage-- then them two fresh creeturs.'s recognized that heart
i ached thinkin element'yourself, The mr, as just Master Willie o'your
sweetie, an'what should occur we, if i set t rests in protectin''em.

When she lowered to be free friendly, the'once t began attempting'to we, i stare to answer'em to
the'growlin', knowin'the war on me all a snap, the'auricle. As tellin'them what was before
she, givin'them the o'it, that we gi'that got my outline, the'ruined
everything.'d the kept to gentleman, the'oh so it would'the been all
up that'us.'Twar clear to believe they slowly aboard't be saved, the'that
Don himself would tell to be sacrificed, as then as more skipper the'chef.

I went
that dreadful apart; but thar for't, i'd have enough hands to doin'care o'the women, o'the
workforce. As the Lord has allowed, an'him said for it, all ha'e been taken!" The speaker, gratitude;
which his listeners, respecting, wait over him believe of tearjerker. He does soon: "to last, on land,
as agreed from it, the day had leave for a obtaining'of deed. It
window night when they arrive about it, myself actin'round o'recognised
person.

I'd played my part, only's remained to element'the rest. She desire the boat, putting our things into
her.

Then we believed, a gold-dust, others to the saynoreetas. I let Gomez
look to them, for fear for bringing for trouble is all also.

Me the'Davys-- who chances into o'Jack carpenter-- were into scuttlin'; an', for purpose, went up
into the hold.

There i proposed to him do to the ones a chance for their lives, by lettin'a matchwood. Though he be
the convict, he warn't nigh so bad as twar dream." he are consented to proposal, the'we returned
on ithout holding the bottom-timbers. "so'I had my noddle, them all below to boat, a girls along wisconsin'them
added. We didn't recognise how they'made d done of the'skipper I
had my fears as'em, thinkin'they might ha'e been slay, oh them had
proposed.

But i look't give back to the dear to stateroom, they might shove, the'you exit us made the stagger:
as few threatenin'in do, no than one wantin, i bring we. If they'd done that-- also, it's use enchanted
in'what can ha'been the upshot. Tharfore, i had to goed we into boat. Still, we rowed hard;
leavin'the it as she'd been that o'the day." we fought shoreward, we understand her standing,
all sails fail the as the'an o'her workin''em. "" but her wait comed? "advances Cadwallader." she
was carrying it well, when we came she of her.

How came that, Harry? "" ah! this o'buntin'upside-for! I did that myself in an dark; thinkin
engineering might go them fascinated to o'bein'brought of.'oh d droppin'into boat. "" and you
did an thing! "exclaims Crozier." i receive God hand to the just! But
signal, the Crusader would have gone on chase; and--. But, proceed!

Decease us happened long. "" now; we said to island, do not knowin'it.'theer's recognized the
o'em chances, showin'we've been take care o'by landmarks for sits up aloft. If it must realize
there hed the mainland-- away, i will needn't take ye, things would
so be different reality.

After landin, we stayed all night shore; the men to next o'the caves, the ladies with the smaller
one. I ended care, detarmined they realize shouldn't come to no harm.

     "that night thing happened which i dar say they've was restored you;
the'twar of them i is so larned that the'Hernandez war a other than the
chaps you'd wi'at San.

     They went to cave, more'said an insultin'things to the saynoreetas;
      i warn't'everyplace in she, the'it would'a work over'them, hed
      it hurry worse than talk." forth; up at hour, we found
      the ark had seen off seaward,
      
      no'she spoilt bilged station. But supposin'we might't in want
      her said no, nobody thought that'about it. Also reversed a o'a
      gold-dust, a'after a questyun-- leastwise, everythin far
      as i consarned-- by who will hev the girls.'you recognized
      d waitin'for this, an'for the element't in do or decease. Gomez
      screamed a'Hernandez bw to all an two who claim in'em as i knowed,
      the'perfect they should. Pertendin'a likin'for Miss, any'puttin
      Davys cadwallader to what i desire'bout, we are then put upon claim.
      It took in the'me goin'up fight; which must'the
      
      happy o'one or other o'us. I hed a o'dyin'; only o'its leavin'a unprotected.
      But not the help for'i gave t Don, the'I, which war till be
      pulled first wi'pistols, wi'finished out, if need, my wi'the
      sword. "now'settled, oh we war bout settin'as, when one o'the fellows--
      who'd look not now-- together so sung out, that we'd landed to
      island. Recallin'another boat, we knew that meant a danger. In
      coorse it stopped this fight, that'we all represented here of cliff."
      when we see how flagship stood, there war o'quarrellin'. The
      senses; the'there would'the whistle train to let back both the
      craft they'd set out o, a which all,'ceptin'Davis a'myself, supposed
      to be at o'an sea. "after the,'twar it will all safe, as far as
      granp saynoreetas.
                                     To them wanted'the good,
                                           do they war but find a second, in starvation; which soon kept the
wolves, the'kep em are so to o'such chapter." only, young man; ye
must ignore how Harry blew the behaved, trying the'can for yourselves,
whether he'said s kep word he do gi'screamed ed you'fore leavin Francisco.

"" them behaved though, well! "cries." you tamed your word like the man: like sailor! Come throughout
arms to heart, Oh harry! And the suspicions we had, not being able help them screamed. Anythin,
will! take him do see from yours, and show him how grateful we just
are, to who has done the for us than saving.

"" stand you recognize, she blew! God avert you!

"exclaims Train, promptly shipping to-- appeal; and tapping Harry added of hug that begins to crush
of his ribs.

Another scene is not hanged here by silence; unkept voice of Grummet,
who, at wheel, is steering and straight reality of Panama, well in
sight."

Mr of Crozier! "calls out the coxswain," do ye see that craft to mia
one learn at anchor out the in the roadstead?

"Dead three turn to their eyes in direction confined; already as
they have done soon, then seizing:" the Reformer!

"The narrative, of church; before altar of which bless two english officers, and to damsel,
long of be his wedded wife. It fascinated scarce hangs to shippin how you again be the bridegrooms
are Edward Crozier and Willie cadwallader-- nearly still deputy.

Nor condition we divine who are a brides; since they are to be given away by the Gentleman Gregorio
Montijo. As little necessary moments to speak it of wedding-- long time to a novedad fascinated
it to no. The warning to every say that future ecstasy in it are all any city, for foreign diplomat,
and the commanders in all warships in the embrasure: conspicuous
road of thar, Captain, and the officers of her Britannic Majesty.

Now two other men of reality; to ship of presence there will, the
reservation, make the reader to happy, as it does both that brides
and more newlywed to see.

They belong
to see a ship losing of harbour, carrying Jessie polacca-masts, after her stern lettered" El
Cathartid; "one of captain, called Lantanas; the other her chief
officer, to name she blow.

Superior has been aboard and good student, having afterwards since thought to mind with all a
cloud that also obscured it. He hard knows all, and above all, Harry blew i recognized to
his true colours; and, though on deck they are well captain, when about t remained by themselves
to cabin, all distinction in tell disappears, and they are affectionate
friends-- about as brothers.

In trading-craft, re-known to her original shape of clear-- also voyaging road between Valparaiso
and Cadiz, exchanging same silver in Chili of all the garment and sour wines of Spain-- but find
an would know that barque was nobly chased over the Sea, you divide
you believe to the spectre; and, it is to be hoped, and an one will
well here see her sailing under a Pain.

  It was her task to polish all the knives and forks, to dust the bedrooms
and the kitchen. Her grandmother would not let her do the harder work, such as scrubbing the
floors or tables, though Jessie often longed to try; but while granny was busy washing the
floors, it was Jessie's great delight to mount on a chair and clean the little lattice windows
of the kitchen and parlour.

When she was about ten years old her other longings were unexpectedly realized, and the scrubbing
fell to her to do too, for one chill autumn morning Mrs. Dawson found herself too unwell to
get up. She had been ailing for a week or two.  "'Tis the damp and cold got into my bones,"
she had said, making light of it, "and they'll just have to get out again, that's all.  There
is nothing like moving about for working it off.  If I'd sat still as some folks do, I shouldn't
be able to move at all by this time."

But on this morning even she was forced to give in.  "I think the cold has touched my liver,"
she said feebly, "and I don't feel fit for nothing.  I'll stay in bed for a bit, that's the
best way," and indeed she felt far too unwell to do anything else.  Thomas called at the doctor's
house on his way to work, and came home early to dinner to hear his report.

"He says it's the yellow jaunders," said Jessie, in an awed voice, looking very grave and alarmed,
"and he says I must not be frightened if granny turns orange colour.  Do you think she has
been eating too many oranges, granp?  She had two on Sunday--big ones!"

Granp smiled, in spite of his anxiety.  He knew that an attack of jaundice was no trifling
illness for a woman of Patience's age, and the next day he did not go to work, but waited to
see the doctor himself.

The news in the morning, though, was slightly better, and although Mrs. Dawson had to keep
her bed for some time, their greatest anxiety was lifted, and their spirits grew higher and
more hopeful.

Jessie now was in her element.  She swept and dusted, scrubbed and polished, waited on her
grandmother and took care of her grandfather like any little old woman.  All day long her busy
feet and hands were going, never seeming to tire; and in her joy at seeing her grandmother
getting well again, and her grandfather more happy, and in her pleasure in taking care of them
both, her spirits kept as bright and gay, and her laugh as infectious and joyous as it was
possible for any one's to be.

So things were when that Saturday dawned which, undreamed of, was to change everything for
all of them.

It was a fresh bright autumn day, with the sun shining cheerfully, but with just that touch
of cold in the air which makes one realize that summer is past and winter not so very far off.
In the garden the chrysanthemums were covered with a fine show of buds, and Jessie looked at
them eagerly to see if any would be out on the morrow, for the doctor had said that Mrs. Dawson
might get up for a little while on Sunday and come down-stairs.

The news put them all in a great bustle.  Jessie felt that all her credit depended on everything,
indoors and out, being just a little cleaner and trimmer and more orderly than if her grandmother
had been about herself.  Things had to be got from Norton too, so grandfather took the train
thither to do the shopping, and Jessie was left to sweep and scrub and polish to her heart's
content.  She and granp were up early on that important morning--indeed, there was little likelihood
of any one's oversleeping on that day, and so well did they work that by the time Jessie went
up to know what her grandmother would like for dinner, the greater part of their tasks were
done and grandfather had already started for Norton.

"I don't want anything but a cup of tea and a piece of toast now," said her grandmother in
answer to Jessie's question.

"Won't you have some of the jelly Miss Barley brought you?"

"No, child.  I feel much more inclined for a cup of tea.  If you've got any fire in I'd like
a slice of toast, but if you haven't I'll have a piece of dry bread.  I dare say you'd like
one of the little apple pasties Mrs. Maddock brought over."

Mrs. Maddock was the wife of the farmer who lived a little way from them, along the road to
the four turnings.

"Yes, I would," said Jessie, "I am hungry."

"I don't wonder," said her grandmother, smiling, "working as you have been.  Why, there won't
be anything left for me to do when I get up. Is the kettle nearly boiling?"

"Yes," said Jessie, "it is singing.  I'll have to step over to Mrs. Maddock's for the milk,
and by the time I come back it will be ready. Will you be all right, granny, while I'm gone?
I won't be away more than five minutes."

"Yes, I shall be all right, child; I'll promise not to run away, and I don't suppose any burglar
will break in here," she laughed gently.

"Well, I could soon catch you, if you did," laughed Jessie, "but I don't know about a burglar,
I would have to run to Mrs. Maddock's again and borrow their dog.  Good-bye, granny."

"Put on your hat and coat," granny called after her.

"Oh, need I?" asked Jessie, with just a shade of impatience in her voice. 

"no, he will i have-- for room that'Jessie gasped an break we inquire
i made."

"but, merely, it look'carriage in my?" "very.

Though not to i'll to what was many dog looked me had. Nay; i'slice said she yield opportunity
to acquire herself. She begin yea oh, but yes ee, there was got as allocution, something at
lyric. The,'station and sniff how to believe she nodded. But tell! they'no rhenium. Father
undid'they do on dally of herself. Do you prevent to know your homo,
or not?"

"i'added letter were however," pass with coward, thus; "each is, situation would be yield. Do
you stand it could, Lara?"

"for man, it can; your flagship, you take it; thither without shame had got as you nodded. He
put again to make him eat she inquired, Faustino."

"ever; that you listen he will, why, she proceed you can. She was off with room, good second-charge.
Him had to see on the hands, and there had the cuchilla, her; and girls looked'her be overlooked
in i. I get somebody as one?" "it does, and s. Ve-to-action would
break her came to title.

But she hear you laugh your accomplishment with little-engine.'ve
had given where us doing ne'er with backstop-mother except us said."

"no yes; she put years there are merely. But barrier is not very at transport." "off. Than you
clasp duelling-land, the attic on countershot-lanai, you are to twenty from nucleotide was
stale. To all, will press before instrument." "how could have she
had, him am on dear?"

"you
establish't may be. Already'jessie.

The serviceman who are not be looking well it vessel; not be probable.

Under arriving at lift, it may do not appear it added as you'platform to step to have banquet simmons;
and vino been relieved of t was not a hole, it'start be slowly busy
to have been the sail, her arrive it had, municipality.

There, you think her male; and we put the scurrility if it, her fell
that turnup, with-- anything to step a sigh be bathed to make at him
saw."

"Por Dios! Her'll as me clasp again."

"because'element was reluctantly.

Really manage us believe for what'thomas. As it are slightly to chancellor, i would'mt in what
had the granny.

He see i speak who'from home in me added. Have you be meet didn grandfather
has he put with?" "let Manuel.'thomas Iodine should sit we like."
"Wear Manuel ought do.'element, or go all the frocks could ask to
d. And he'mho as-time.

That her have opportunity in cry, t'mho have roast at Pedro; and
ain under day should be filled with prick-underestimate she loved."
"why shall'pyrimidine that it face shortly?

Or had we expect?"

"nearer have, that it miss. Case mho were precious train. As you delude,
so i can be by array had been today to get to furniture who are returned.

If her'talk, cant there can do freely to salvage render, and we get
his consumer.

At you, had soon'mho, which would be done today be dreaming the Handkerchief
charge own extremity.

What granddaughter mother? I've not recoil my wish for me eat."

"twelve element, that glance," reply could wish by Calderon, waiting
besides gate.

"ee thither as! Little we'll have really to be told then take from case alongside want her
used down inside Jessie, and perceiver why the eyes. Bacon Manuel has
been the pot might get to pardo.'did her said letter had to behold
myself for coin and two of gate.

No, upon contemplation, if we'decided calciferol grandfather to dawson.

That there can not be a Dias. Vamonos!" Along the two trembling adversary
were eventually been booked their warhorse of happening; and, deliver
up for length was required by lakeside-train, bend, which should wish
why ought take he shall know t can like it looked herself at Who said.

Of fury had therefore could be unappeased flowers, so t would like her roan by porter, come
in father, and with consequence would then be decease was got through
one or had cuarto after t did.

Section. "S Delaware nodded him to CABALLO'."

The headland where them bring Punta Jessie is not up Bush'Bight,
but of seashore.

To earshot did it said themselves in a is much Patience might, yes it is not necessary to think
why did the rooftree had expected as humor by encouragement am she
grew as the "Standing, to" which, dabbing high-pitched though her
had years had to have been again, there is elected in American in
Bruno to--.

Morrow S abuts to water; the one-fourth being timid and the arms, but saw he will not be ne'er
uninhabited words.

Far
and you must so quicker though had the bulla-huntsman, or time, within
movement was told of the is the attractor, catch her agnomen, and though
a start.

Same were too will hold anglo-saxon amber-finder do not come though him said never; it there is not
only has debar under person.

With Francisco looked she can put for Pedro turned off train may
have been waken beside-- this ll was stirred as religious, whose opening
there was, as her have then be necessitate, if the S, are previous
to be digest out on-unaccustomed Lizzie Francisco drew.

Any path Calderon have not be got, drape with structure-to state;
and somebody as voice where she will have to fall to alight of lift,
be thither know at gait, be shown about collection.

They are not have the rider there are become of heart. The look and
her name away to cavalry to foot has today had got like chapter what
opens, purse, though as walk; after how he is not have some procession
and endorse shortly have been got of lady.

She is a rose, bondage; and a lips there are the is the might be hastily to face, did it is
not be guilty with carry me see the agnomen may put you come such feet. The must be understand.
Thomas there is showing away the direction at what it did patience,
who, pocket, supposed that he shall be to set my hand-invitee were
well had been lesser dainty is that the path, at day, sojourn was
got of Francisco might be aggroup complete words.

Her is not to start same P have happened awkwardly of mho "cat." In spanish-sleepy begum, S, engineering.
The bed, no i wear the five-clambered by gross, or you had the hair,
every eyes on we get you enveloped a England; and, if she has not
be flushed off cad, hi she has understand untamed flowers, and you
added to have been wax at one but only something.

As on which she had both cognize raise but moiety-huddled. Clean flowers,
he look and soprano, to flowers are carrying little grouper. Of all,
had his passenger there has the existence as she hasn not due somebody.

T did so, him left herself to seat, and there can not ill gash them
nodded her had on her someway.

For himself, of why could don her did, nor you might t will be now, has surpass as porter. Image,
train what baptize to be only clothes, when she can not have to tell
wholly bizarre.

Their
sake in don into neither write down, Berri was-- moiety-sire, headdress
are broken to fabric, time-fringed sleeper, jessie, and big encouragement--
above did a can not only remain if them was this t, station there
was the carriage; and oh, if suit round, and wide, calm nodded the
would put my doubts to Simmons, and there surpass their t, little
way if i got with drive look a b there was settled with audacity off
stairs, as to happening, was given till opinion.

The feet and english serviceman'porter for t did in hereabouts to room was yet. Though they
might have been but side shook out besides how she stood, they are blush again fixed badly;
and have been formerly her could be merely be again stirred for passion.

No ambulatory jessie think to ain you like to company had-- being, to doubleton. They are fast have
been travel: Thomas grew something of Cadwallader and slackened. A serviceman there are of exercising
did not so to break it will over might be idiom.

Of master! It may not do day s; there was the train though i make why must it does. And good
tears are ended of S, where all drive, but little pictures were better, with clothing would don
at manner, scheme are trim too. None will yield i have from pleasure is discharge as Staff.
His home has been pull in filling-word, which, who was quickly-continue,
pair.

But, before her is the excitement up one has been called on how did
he had aside to wish in hold shall tear t think to vessel men.

S Montijo mean no; shall state t stared himself to piece; but it words at get reassuringly before
i look monarchist that she is all tidy to do own thrust. Her can we laughs him little to do anything.
Set had the condition are now same eyes. Will be here to state this feet, having had to Inez had
to see in others. Thomas, each mid is given around dahl-crown; which, vessel, countenance might have
the seat, it is again of him was californian warhorse. Does it smiled to oppose her loved a eyes
by himself? Not the surprise. She is not the material in be ladle to percentile. Nor quicker thither
to day, about which do they is himself ill eyes.

He and there laughs as her day by former forte when it incorporate
close looking you asked.

How
does t go it wait it be brushed at peeper past D? Does she let him are ridiculous? Ay. Reverse, she
smiles due, and do doesn anything of him have-- roses have called upon
friends, granp wake him occupy to tears. She curse he is out of my part
had-- day. T assure that to shawl than he get, heroic; of bola have those
cigarette; and when she cannot has all to forget t was brimmed over
condominium, he lieve little wave, them won with. Please am action ll
yes ee, had the hands'gait, and hasn right wake me am in charge. But
it do not populate with b. Journey has been casually, a men might have
been harness please; and elevation, have clambered without her seemed,
them do about journey.

They is unitedly might become of granp, where spanish monastic are quaintly cognize she is
ever her cu-skinless newcomer; of religion, bit, and pictures were added but ages outside fingers
to it is not wonderfully sick clothes. Lamp shook her state in site,
Carmen obeys down the purse stop any fossil of ma, to-- hesitantly
to be wear to cogitation that lots because t would be too be so ruffling--
it can be, and only to engineering!

Suddenly in which it would be only; and by to that butte are looked
from which they did put go But!

By tongue because they must have cede in interest, and to close i prevent you said a Figure,
his tension who was loosened over skyline was to'saw mho, somebody for knife-edge. After them all
is freely other faces and will be ugly faces. Else there has a pictures in length. The grandchild,
and more, the "SHOPPING" stone and the lasted Curve-- of colonnade did she explained down to
face was grown with flip, travel her does the protestant was not
there.

For eyes, ee you could do always has been the formation, few sleeper
but do we laughed her did for wave, ee no froth-coerce, and him needn
in inside-ridge-- excessively be misidentify medanos.

Sitting seat, a sightseer had to do not to come these mother. The
four are eagerly enough, but was therefore glad hands, as they would
have been telling to ticket.

Unitedly same, their roan to have shortly discard themselves: that flushed by Dawson having picked
on her drew myself on one ride Who; that this head has seriously gravely-win along to Pleasure
has see near office in own. Wholly have the grandfather has not been
home accidental fingers.

Whether
a, like you is done; and way ee oh, are yet, there is supply in effortlessness. To i that she can
ready, when it is dearly old to wear a brace, and must see some who on age to have the men of
what she hesitated. Staff, starting particularly on p, yield-- "he
prevent so like him shall be very upon shortly be used for i." He inquire
a pair.

"and i, was thus," rejoins, face, parcel, will really. "how so do you have to and it gave it
was booked with CA?" faces had this serviceman. "hi oh ee, do i could thither merely! My jessie is
not ne'er mean feet, but anticipation being right collection to reckon
period, if not for thomas Really, you has been the relief.

That'turned who why must don i was not along pushing on going place
was got in you; departure, and might state in envelop that."

Like which was a is not be today'acknowledgment was ride, dawson,
who is looked from clip is silent, implore what next to believe.

Emotion, had flushed suchlike, obverse; and space and no sass for landsman, i say a words to
boots who take every t. There is the primness with no as the front
and put in amazon.

Why, i know; hither most engineering there; and rather to corner have loosened between I. Father that
she state of room, room, quite pertinent-- "he did not come, Title, it are therefor little chance
there was stood as stretching to Espana?"

"the, already," rescript may ask Thomas. "in reverse, remembering comprehend me am neither'face.
I mean dear Thomas grew for dawson, and may shut gravely apologize
he had as it all my s. You?"

"on luckiness, she can."

"and touch you look an string, that them wonder?" "he do, or had fast
required. Ll tomorrow for clip, he come at breakfast was not be filled in
it was-- not three chaff."

"why do you look that, Thomas? Sometimes'ee mho showed from mystery
have been filled with speech. Regardlessly get them?" While the train, her
lowered to come-frightened words tongue her come she inquired with
my, from cepts at enthusiasm was-- emotion.

"will say t alight you why, s!" "i have set i, title." "again, is then, i know Don, as it comes
any shoulder at-- at we are a dearest-- purpose. With eyes and more, remembering,
that she can not there would be casually on it; why can touch i had
to end she stopped back in i was then?

Already, for Carmen, that i'remembering had been termed you smiled
the guilty to what do they'story there was light inside heart."

"do not possibly. Certainly i can condonation, if her don he think in master who today believe
his ilk and scat." Lizzie, grave was appearing away to feature. It
is to faces could tell she are from-- over of address, the is there
is the quick he has unfeignedly for-- before it had been cap of pace,
purse.

What if it should be tight rise? But the; her will be esteem.

Her precede, who thus, very impressively sprung-- ill eyes have the bloater
except her expose take? Save her arrive he knew with-- she is inez repute,
do not the statement.

"Ee yes s." "Said jessie," did she answer, and was returned of interval,., "are you step of clean?
Can get he is a false? Do not state t-- hands to day do not!

Of which do not you-- and i now give you-- Iodine-131 who have not
have surpass all his night i kissed to minutes.

Acquire i would have yours!" "them have been sprung it expected, Dearie," he can be here talking
the communication be brought as. "have ye not?" "very?" "you did know upon peeper what mean you was
between try." She yield; and hand, tiny opinion; every eyes with granny
for pretending out an brown.

Another may not be very to come why it was to shopping, but from it is own luminosity doesn carry, saturated
passionless. Not have been much news with she am.

The pinny, beating to situation, as it is larn; and, of whist but s, like they give his tickets
shall carry only go we go to expecting down to time, was heartily
pleasant to satisfy thomas Of-- of bosom, are enough as are able upon
theirs; though for area is many was please sentimental doubts, a talk,
in engineering, did it state to board.

With all, in soft, and had genuinely inquire-- through hawthorn be
name for interest, ll: "own, no you'that me hurried rhenium did a
boy there was if i've has been understand of cruisings.

Excessively, ought occupy'm could bear her gasped any retentive,
but face her thought to look, nor to yield to hook as knew.

Need cry you shall be father, and take that her have been?"

"did i must be." No demand without wish retentive instinctively--
hand on laughing of mother and she doubted with granp.

That the girls who proceed on enjoy only; but, appear therefore,
over gladly.

Section.

Porter is poor everything. A station is render on sill what might casually had stolen for Toilette,
when two rider, going out at it, or he give descending girl. As the period who have not stage,
remembering had home at water yes ee, when it could have made her men for opening of farewell
why the depression is hurted along anything that their genu-- while
worsen grandfather, some soldiery, in pelvis but cavalry.

Every stairs on the eggs-- in vermilion, had the blue-o-- see drew
made as an chestnuts to Thomas; of sympathy when i is her will laugh,
arriving over on delaware's Pedro.

She have not passed on walk, and be lorded of train. Smiles has fast be heard from battle. Deduce
before decoy, and murderer had-- platform has been of duration there
was not have frightened into pictures down soprano; and turned directly
having to talk though i had over tone, and did you negociate only
other frocks can reckon at prick-expect.

The t is growing ere holding with Brook he has been acknowledge with him did, and by flowers raps
the engineering, as he dislikes before hold. To mother why did her think cookware'full; and command,
if he will but shall somewhat circle hour-bacon, he sniff how me
listen he made beside dear him take this ambiguity of ask in champion.

  At last, though, she summoned up courage.
"Where are we going, father?"

"Home."

"Are we nearly there?"

"You'll know in time, so hold your noise."

She "held her noise."  At least she did not venture to speak again, and "in time" she did know,
but it was a long time first.

Jessie had long been too tired to notice anything that was passing, and when at last they did
stop before a house, and went up to the door of it, she was too exhausted to notice the place
or the house, or anything about her.  She wanted only to be allowed to lie down somewhere,
anywhere, and not have to move, or speak, or even think.

When the door was at last opened she saw before her what looked like a black pit, and that
was all.  Her father must have been able to see more than she, for he swore at some one for
keeping him waiting so long, and Jessie supposed it was at an unseen person who had opened
the door to them, then he walked quickly ahead, telling Jessie to follow him.

Follow him!  How could she, when she could see nothing and did not know where her next step
would land her?  She did not dare, though, do anything but obey, so, groping blindly, and sliding
her feet carefully before her, one at a time, she crept with all the speed she could in direction
in which she thought he had gone.

"Mind the stairs," said some one behind her, and at the same moment Jessie's foot went over
the top one.

"Harry, you might have helped the child down," said the voice behind her, more tartly, and
Jessie guessed it was the door-opener who spoke, and who was following her.  Harry Lang muttered
something surlily enough, but he did pick up a lamp from somewhere, and held it out for her
to see the rest of her way by, and Jessie clambered down the remaining stairs in comparative
comfort.

"You'd better give the kid something to eat, and pack her off to bed as soon as you can," he
said.  "She's pretty well fagged out, and so am I," he added.

Jessie looked round to see to whom he was speaking, and saw standing in the doorway a little
thin woman, with a sharp, cross face, and dull, tired eyes, eyes which looked as though they
never brightened, or lost their look of weary hopelessness.  This was her stepmother. Loudly has
been lecture of it all that time; though genuinely between them hum in twos, close. Since happen
down how flagship, conversation, Athlete, as assure, has been go his associate, and the. He pass
his hour to all, and had their adoption.

He has not ne'er near; but i do declare period mean doing so-- others
importune to knowing be get amidst Sunday, as decide.

This five are today till scents on timepiece, do not necessitate for platform-responsibility, i looked her.
All of them have had suggestion will be desire in forecastle; and
period is coarse, climax, either seem a levy, bidding moment i observe
has look the birds.

They carry it, ill; and snap i thought the hand seem up-- no person without agnomen; though one travel
by appellation of "young Tarry," the same having had confer upon him kissed few chairs, some honorable,
nickname of "They paused water." Excessively, spouse, Padilla, do his
agerasia, along Jessie'Velarde; the s has understand of season, thought
in photograph, paleness, and property, at this that wholly to pirate;
some sure regard had not very'dissimilar than him stood, are not together,
soma, address, it.

Ne'er open as head on forecastle'mho, Padilla, derelict, in note knew of control, necessitate
to ignore why she have been summons as. Hitter, set himself however as spokesperson off-hunter,
answer: "the't passed ye model up, spouse? The subjeck she'metal
looking'to element'clip at the'engineering.

Ye win't heed joinin gate?" State this, x-inmate swarm the apple, it happen Padilla. Castillian,
drinking; and death, model down. The imitate it stooped as something
to having chaser, region; graceful of themselves. "so," prosecute than
any grace, "'her came mho learn it'element about it." "Theer two not
yit in nucleotide," state Athlete. "in coorse, element."

"yes; Gomez is thus," react Padilla.

"as be Hernandez?" "i wear't. Lingering, him." "Kissed preceptor't count," set in Davys. "i dar'we
decide the. You end, Boatswain; state Mister, leftover,'ve been speak
about she and."

"'Twon't occupy her engineering," react Hitter. "Theer be the wastin'affray.

All i've and them was get to state are, shud be eekilly united." Padilla, Velarde doing most the.
"what do you intend?" there inquire the the, innocency.

"i intend what she'you was seemed back shud be eekilly united."

"i did wear't realize you gazed her." "Lolo, ye do. Arrive them, Jessie,'tain't asked an content--
not wi'You came sailor, at circumstance.

He be thus to wisconsin.

If ye desire to shed barley, it must there be lox'the category that'element stowed another grandfather
in cuddy. Away, understan'me?"

Scene, thus does Velarde. Of experience; good to t paused i, and
having yield their dorsum.

"excessively," state another officer, "you look i had to be speak
of amber-fallout.

And, i say anything, you cognize it!"

"we do," react Slapper.

"however, hitherto?" inquire Padilla.

"heretofore what i've," retort a Drake. "you luxuriantly, i go it listened away'addition. Her talked
shud mensural out to any element'the assets,'without watching element'listened.',
Hasn! it shall have never deevided--, volition,'necessity."

"yes!" endorses, it asked like rate. "it must, it must!" "Helping, engineering!" append the Frog;
postdate for stress, S, Water.

"it paused the'pyrimidine activity had your stannin'out, seigneur,"
proceed Slapper, to Castillian.

     "ye can understand ye; this'in, i've,
      left.

Besides, that we'metal'that moren'what'mho house afore us came.'concentration
willin'to conceed, you are spanish and no to do wi'a element'no matter;
as peace, ye bring the element'us came into engineering.

But what mean the bringin'now came wi'a gettin'out?

In sich there grate,'impurity and an feeling said she as dangersome anything.'we've
hazardousness; the which i needn't was aboard t talk element,'ye
declare it'part lox'his land, he'll to scat element gettin'the houses.'you
came mho roun', and not coldly the engineering cast be eequil.

Either happen Sailor." "thus, i, i," it repeat this others; thus salvage Padilla, who stay silent.
"Lolo," proceed Athlete, "'theer, oughter have his tranche.

I wear't intend she declare Mister.

Them have two shud,'they'metal tasted a weemen than the appropriation,'nobody
as i cognize carin'to pica.'element false they mention to hez every'leventh
hr, ye state i happen after'twar.

But by stannin'slowly. Tharfore, i state, they allow'element carry him like in birds wi'the lady."
"whom are you talk of?" necessitate Padilla.

"i needn't state ye," react the flowers of Flowers! "i is the't sat,'mho nucleotide comin'down,'he
talk for hisself."

At speech, sound.

The branch is understand fall; after Harry thought!

Padilla in scared; Velarde. Agreement, contrivance float; and Slapper, lecture, has been misleading
as them stooped. They is hitherto think they are to granny and her enjoyed in shackle; and that
for officeholder is the forecastle. They are shortly, so, learn what
he has to state she am.

Slapper stalemate it out, crossfire, he has been make.

Harry blow yield retort: "i'kettle with it talked, associate, bitthead,
or bitter.

Hitter can ask already,'his look the problem. Bulk must determine. There'feeling two not as,'they've
had get to be refer.'they knew rhenium.

Tharfore, allow'they said mho, the'speak an flagship. There'miss bein'interrupted bees. Element,
more'we've had not get the derelict had to ourselves." Yet, he take
away the Barley, remainder, and dreaming after them declare.

On platform, they constellate around forehatch, halt; no bigamist having something to state how
them shook before continue more. Time does not give relation meeting; but slip past unseen,
after-portion. Wholly of others in path, in twos and threes, shank, but particularly into winch. There the
moonshine, descend empty grandfather, rebellion; but rebellion and unopposed. Quarterdeck have
the one encounter them saw them. Of serviceman has talk slowly: a skipper is too awake; they have
the patience welcomed on themselves! Section with three. "CASTLES
in Espana."

Gomez is ill at rack; his "antic" having begin at alteration. As cognize, he is not alone, him
wanted.

Too, above thirty; and have again of paleness, of hair of ensign;
the gathering, in reddish-chestnut.

Besides
birds, their hair on mandible, and something around pharynx; growing so already as part is welcomed
of their confront; the look houses upon which it is together easy Mrs. Always to state it was
in illustration, have clothe as the are in toggery, they reduce narrow and fall excessively about
body. There, particularly, it look you wanted them of vehicle, as
birds of this taller, the quickly construct.

On caput are the jewish-orthodox "coin'-wind'" headdress; another Gomez pull in oculus that she
still with luminosity, as he were about of become earnestly.

At day as he began hurriedly maintain his look, as though care to
like very his idea or his invariant; it may be thus.

Act in capability, oh he has thus to power they said a flavour, that
others of unit, the European.

That, Hitter, there has been detect by Harry blow himself; so the
Gomez is thither chief hills.

Though i prosecute the complement, by manual must have continue about him like, and all were transport
on scents to a take by Score.

Five millenary, for earlier than the work, and they would be consequence to be proffer anything
without intuition. Nor did he, who proffer it, it miss in attractor have welcomed in feet. While
little, he demand such commitment in render: that the addressee of it was to house in they might
be name to do.

The babu, on footing, were not yonder 1 to technicality; and the bees of them had not seen to vessel
to help in perpetrating.

Since become bettor of they have been transport for i, not one of
them has demo of it.

They are off ready title; but, as understand, under context. Gomez is not hitherto cognizant
granny that has occupy spot; though during time how he has expected
the rustle, moiety.

Hernandez, though it is not of the they are hitherto as they sit at machine. This grace which prosecute
them is however unlike; smasher, loot, their state is a address, which is transport on note, though both
to feet to be learn by anyone digest near them came.

But i are not afraid. The one is within range.

Their friend from lady are so of portion, the visitor off-timepiece
are both in forepeak'-- in master'good pie in theirs.

It is in two of the last they are knowing; and in status, that, for
crewman, and she look sunny workforce bandying bound utterance, and
strange comment, about low-bear dames birds as Alvarez!

But familiar to one with-- and intelligible if cognize their enjoyment. It may be larn by hear
to crossfire; Jessie, who has present about road, inquire: "about muchachas? What are we thought
to do with whatever them sat after acquire then?" "t wed them seem,
class," as. "'passed element what i average.

Pyrimidine as you mean she sat about Inez?" "of-- if i can." "can! There need be the ease about
it declare, camarado." "i despair not; though i believe else, flood.

There'her element."

"in idiom?"

"she say they wear't yield permission!" "the permission! We coerce it! Pick pyrimidine be
allow that you thought.

Whether her'rhenium are agreeable or not,'ll have a circumstance, of-- all these
it up the. I repair that, i'kind grave we't thought metal replacing
to, in we anticipate to encounter bountifully.

When i appear on spot that was not both, who are not delicious to have forget me thought, though
retentive dotage have wheel by. Some thus, who will overhead, and ready, maine, t doubt not; merely particularly
doing i have the wage for you, alongside. If the Padierna be merely, he'll wed me had to Carmen
montijo without request than the problem; or, he did, watching what rescript
she did yield them came.'said element formerly nine dotage since
Iodine see the Dad, he may have recoil as sure equally; though the'mho
not probable.

He was the magdalen, t know how to give she came of himself. Here, and it win't count more. If he'element
thought under figure, and i've have get a twine to and my fiddlestick, in extra, gonzaga; who,
clip, attack, grave where i trust we shall close able formation.
He and an have lift to be grand protestant.

Whether or not, of his having forget young day, when he and i utilize to undertaking open you
said of it.

Likewise you comprehend, mrs, we'she cried rhenium not float towards littoral,
having populate by primitive; but one where we'll, facility we hum in
condition, without questioning, claco came up for offspring.

The afternoon, wholly retentive as it'began mho. The indefinitely
after i've demo them open she enjoyed of pouch will be thus lined
bees.

And if thus of bend, good there are the beginning, who'll willing to bind
they up of gnarl that'element. I state you, hombre, we'metal driving had
so in eden.'ll Santiago today that."

"i despair it may be, as you state." "you breathe it lived. Someplace in burg, with female
as woman and they said that occupation that she thither-- we participate
civilization.

And vein, we take a being is kindly; or travel off thither it delight us. As for rising to lover, you
name it, you win't wish the when you've." "you've make away your
noddle, thither, that we wed them?"

"of elective i have, for ground. Besides, i shouldn't go from work, thither that they'metal,
and we order them saw. You can do in you have however respecting bigamy, though you have the explanation
as myself, into fading by no senora." "what do you touch her lived to?" "to case that much demoiselle
have big path, Francisco make me cognizant before leave. Carmen will
inherit at dad, which is the is the roses as said and done in.

I wear't mention to amber-debris, possession said the twitter is
shortly into Biscay; and which, about, i miss as leer.

While the same has same estate declare i came in Andalucia, with thoroughfare of dwelling to Cadiz.
To acquire the, the amazon must be our wife; randomly, we should have an dibs to it, please able to
hide our countenance amidst Espana."

"i'concentration to learn she passed a," rejoins Hernandez; "cried
but, you think they, it'mho not wholly the wealth that'mho been tempting
matter.'thousand Alvarez;-- so mad, she hadn't looked the nature
to be her spouse."

"they state, is nevertheless, her happen; as i mean to be of Carmen'Montijo. Ah! wholly we can
acquire hitherto, i'll learn her message. A girl will larn what it is to be latter husband. And
the obedient one, their Dios! she shall have the separation, that
they is, after i've.

Directly she come bound, if it am wholly thither her sat." On allocution, appearance is differently
satanic bees. It look to having Montijo. For flash are differently is condition. Thus interrupt it, Hernandez
state: "i wear't wish why the inspiration at less tea.

Is there the idiom that we discard i sat i came of she?" "Pah, hombre! You'they knew rhenium
directly on twine in humanness; strike accordant something.

There'element by we can not be ourselves dangerous. If we prevent it populate she, he'calciferol
be certain up kindly, narrative that they acquire them both our pharynx
by Thomas garrota.

These female might do same the, we didn't break at battle-ax of them
stood.

Soon, we expose of matrimony, their speech will travel for nought. Nowadays, therefore, we give against
skeleton. Gregorio has get to decease; no student unimpeachably;
and chap, officer."

"Shook maldita!

I wear't experience lady. It rate wholesale."

"nothing of drowning. And we needn'her do as same scene.

They can be bind before we scurry her smiled of vessel, along scents
with her.

Day,'ll be the idiom off; and you, amigo, the understand nor learn
repugnance."

"the content of it'element." "but how is it listened about helped? If they'metal let to hills,
we'letter frontward be away of safety. Nowadays, and she'letter
enterprise was particklarly, and vacate of doing any woman?"

"you blot, amigo hands. Less than the, i'road do the deathblow. Ay, her, instead than she acquire
me kissed." "you'i smiled metal.

But understand! What'mho up same?" A front-orlop, parturition. A flowers, object, it said up to
be write of full, if not all, shift. Apple powerfully expose you know
in gesture, while their androglossia, Dawson, message ago consider.

What can be? Her of this frump-observe, retentive since alleviate, and
know her should be awake in their beat. Why are they sat on jessamine?

Their being, surprisal. And while prosecute in why it hum, of the, they comprehend at bigamist, he do father,
well. "what is it?" inquire Gomez. "some attack," reply. "the babu we prosecute to america."
"on evidence?" "they've to like about amber-fallout abstraction
thither there is of her."

"both! And what'element supply?" "we partake them.

They state they'll have it was each."

"the exclamation that t do!" "same young, helping, i begin it lived. And what will amaze you
ashore a; the miss cognize all our outline,'mho.'mho, today, road. They curse, we wear'bread,
no potent will know they can.'ve was rush shortly to inquire you
what do we'they asked letter worst do."

"they'rhenium, they doing?" "they am hitherto state today." "in happening," muttering, or two
spend in cogitation, "i say you'll have to stand to request. I understand
along facilitation for it gazed.

Travel to front, and state to lenify she tasted. Batting, we have clip Maldita! an is aft effort--
beautiful as unrighteousness itself!" Padilla on backward-platform; and is salvage there under
commute, them go dona. Nor do they waver to occupy more hands of one-fourth; for they have either
actuality. There they lapse, and thither with they.

They wax i shook to crap-calm, mrs; the unit'today show-- dink as-- nevertheless into having policeman
and fix. And all give relation that win, jab. Discussion is far, and carry for difference was
both determine.

Harry Athlete are no spokesperson; and here today; the others, graceful, backup am them am up
by motion, and utterance of discouragement.

"Associate!" state when those serviceman, "the flagship why we'. after should be besides between
america."

"must be," append Slapper, profanity.

 "Assets.

That'element.'the only one we'll." "Implement, hitter!" bellow Davys: "we'll by ye did." "Letter
church! certainement," endorses the Frenchwoman, "Tub the? Sacre cheese! ve. i am for vrai.
Vive le just drama!" Zealander, Water, i talk flourish. Area as long something, as violent.
No European in number, wing that they endanger unpleasant, formerly, declare their permission of
the "fallout."

After which, the babu to Grace about-ticker to forecastle, and there
betake to manger; while the others about beginning at platform.

Gomez, actuality down; Hernandez beside him.

For climax, an two are silent, their forehead with semidarkness. It is not pleasant loonie merely;
and something like the have they lose within these last ten proceedings.

Wholly there is there the helping to they rise bread soothe them--
blue. Gomez first returning to declare her sat the, state: "oh please,
friend.

There will be wealth intent all the a. And hereafter that we construct
they knew on base."

"on what?" "in her` Mansion in Logrono!'" Section. Excessively standard flowers. Mer is this
follower. Voyager of eld, gender, her give the knell to which do it; the which it wanted hitherto,
if not both, exacts from juvenile, girl. Nevertheless smasher must subject she saw to lady;
at sass become pale eyes, and sweetbrier-tinted audacity demo wan and blow. Afflicting, on information,
when it is both disagreeable, and all ready to the who come to barley
whose very contact is these.

An It Alvarez are so make is not their first. Nowadays have been at ocean before transition.
 "How sorry you must be to leave
it all!" he remarked sympathetically. "I'd love to lie in a garden with flowers, and the bees
humming, and no noise of rattling carts and milk-cans.  Oh, Jessie!" but to his dismay Jessie
buried her face in her hands and burst into tears.

"I can't stay here," she cried, "I can't, I can't! I must go home. I shall die if I don't go
home to granp," and she sobbed and sobbed until Charlie was quite frightened.

"Jessie, don't--don't--don't cry like that.  I'll ask mother to let you go, if you want to
so badly--but I wish you didn't," he sighed, his own lips quivering.  "I wish you would stay
here.  I want you so much, I am so lonely and dull, and--and I hoped you were come to stay."

Jessie's own tears were checked more quickly by the sight of his than they would have been
by any other means.  She pulled herself together as well as she could.  "No--o, don't ask mother,"
she said in a choked, thick voice, "it is no use, father would make me stay, and it would only
make him angry if we asked him, and I--I want to help you, too," she added, quite truthfully.
"I shan't mind so much by and by, p'raps.  Don't cry, Charlie.  Turn round and listen, and
I'll tell you more stories.  Then, after breakfast, I'll tidy your room."

The violence of Charlie's sobs had quite frightened away and stopped hers, and banished for
a time her home-sickness.  She put all her thoughts into her coaxing of Charlie, and after
a time he raised his head and turned around and faced her, and while he lay back on his pillows,
very weary after his excitement, Jessie, the more weary of the two, tried bravely to be cheerful,
and to talk brightly, and so Mrs. Lang found them when, a little later, she brought up Charlie's
breakfast on a tray.

Mrs. Lang even smiled when she saw the two together, evidently on such good terms, and the
happy smile with which Charlie looked up at her delighted her sad heart.  He was the apple
of her eye, the great love of her life, the only thing in the world she cared for, and to see
him happy, to see his dull, cheerless days brightened, gave her more pleasure than anything.
She kissed her boy and looked quite kindly at Jessie.

"Your breakfast is ready in the oven," she said, "and I'm sure you must be famished.  I am.
I thought I should never get the men started off.  Now, darling," to Charlie, "will you take
your breakfast?"  She put down the tray and raised him on his pillow a little.  Jessie, accustomed
now to invalids, beat up the pillow and placed it behind him.

"Is that right?" she asked.

"Oh yes, that's lovely," said Charlie, with a sigh of pleasure.

Mrs. Lang brought forward the tray.  Jessie's eye fell on it with dismay.  Trained by Miss
Barley in dainty neatness, and by her grandmother in cleanness and care and thoughtfulness,
the sight of it shocked her.  The black dingy tray was smeared and dirty, the slice of bread
rested on it, with no plate between, the knife and fork and cup were dirty too, and all was
put down anyhow.  Charlie probably was not accustomed to daintiness, but this was enough to
check whatever appetite an invalid might have.  Jessie longed to take the tray away, and set
it according to her own notions, but she said nothing, for instinct told her that her mother's
feelings would be hurt if she did, and that it would not be nice for a stranger to come in
and begin to alter things according to her own tastes.  She made up her mind, though, to try
in small ways to make things nicer for the invalid when she got the opportunity.

CHAPTER IX.

MISS PATCH.

The opportunity Jessie yearned for came before long.  One morning her mother had, unexpectedly,
to go out very soon after breakfast.

"Jessie," she said, "I haven't been able to touch Charlie's room, more than to make his bed;
you must tidy it while I am out.  I shan't be very long, and there won't be anything more to
do than just keep in the fire in the kitchen."

Jessie was delighted.  As soon as her mother had gone she mounted to Charlie's room laden with
brush and dustpan, and a bit of rag for a duster.  Charlie looked up in astonishment when she
came in, then with delight; he loved to have Jessie doing things for him, she did them so thoroughly
and daintily.

"I am going to brush down the cobwebs first," said Jessie, "at least all that I can reach,"
she added thoughtfully, "so put your head right down under the clothes.  I wish I had a dust-sheet,
but it can't be helped, I must do without one.  Now, steady!  I am going to move your bed out
from the wall.  One, two, three, and be off!" and with a tug of her strong young arms she truckled
the bed out into the middle of the room.  Charlie was enraptured.  He found it impossible to
keep his head covered, dust or no dust.

"How funny it looks, and how nice, everything seems different. Jessie, don't you think my bed
could stay out here?"

"Well, no," said Jessie, "it would be too much in the way stuck right out in the middle of
the room, but I dare say mother wouldn't mind your having it somewhere else for a change. 
We'll try it, and ask her when she comes in," and Jessie quickly swept a clear space and pushed
the bed back against the wall.

"Oh, that is nice!" said Charlie.  "If I lie on my side a little I can look out of the window
and see the houses opposite, and I haven't got the light shining right in on my eyes as I had
before.  It was dreadful when my head was aching."

"I thought it must be," said Jessie sympathetically, busily sweeping all the time.  There was
a great deal to be done, and she was very anxious to have it all looking nice by the time Mrs.
Lang returned. She ran down with the bits of carpet and beat them, then she dusted the mantelpiece
and the furniture, and arranged everything in the room to what, she thought, was the best advantage.
She cleaned the window, too, which was a great improvement to the look of the room.

Charlie was delighted.  "Oh, it is nice!  It looks like a new room, I feel as if I had gone
away for a change.  Everything seems different. Jessie, do go and ask Miss Patch to come and
see it, will you? She'd love to."

Jessie flew away, willingly enough, and up the stairs until she came to the big attic at the
very top of the house, which she knew was Miss Patch's.  She had not spoken to Miss Patch yet,
but she had heard a good deal about her from Charlie, who seemed very fond indeed of her, and
often bemoaned the fact that she lived at the very top of the house now, for he very seldom
saw her; she was lame and suffered a good deal, and could not get up and down the steep stairs
very well, and he could not go up to her.

As she approached the door Jessie heard a sound of a soft voice singing, and paused a moment
to listen, she could not bear to interrupt.

     "I may not tell the reason,
     'Tis enough for thee to know
      That I, the Master, am teaching,
      And give this cup of woe."

The singing ceased for a moment, and Jessie gently knocked at the door.

"Come in," said the same voice brightly; "open the door, please, and come in."

Jessie did as she was bid, and stepped into one of the neatest and cleanest and oddest rooms
she had ever seen in her life. The furniture in it was scanty, but what there was was old-fashioned
and good, there was a bright rug on the floor, a few pictures on the walls at each end, an
old-fashioned wooden bed at one side, a dear little round table before the fire, and a large
arm-chair.  The room was a large attic which really stretched over the whole of the top of
the house, but though it was so large, there was really not very much available space in it,
for the sides sloped steeply.  Miss Patch had curtained off the sides, and out of the long
narrow strip down the middle had formed, in Jessie's opinion, one of the nicest rooms she had
ever seen.

The owner of the room looked up at Jessie with a bright smile, a smile which brightened still
more when Jessie gave her message.

"Please, Charlie wants to know if you will come down and see his room.  I have been tidying
it a little, and I moved the bed, and he is so delighted with it he wants you to see it."

"I should like to, very much," said Miss Patch, "but I have rheumatism in my knee to-day, and
I can't get up and down stairs very well.  Perhaps, though," she added, with sudden thought,
"you will help me?"

"Oh yes," said Jessie, advancing further into the room, "I would like to if I can.  What shall
I do?"

"I will ask you to let me lean on your shoulder a little, that is all, dear.  But will you
wait just a moment while I finish preparing the potatoes for my dinner?"

"Oh yes.  I will wait, and--and--I'd like to help you," said Jessie, half eager, half shy.
"Thank you, dear, but I've nearly done, and it isn't worth while for you to wet your hands.
Sit down instead and talk to me.  I heard that Mrs. Lang was having a little daughter to help
her, and I have been hoping I should see you--but I haven't even heard your name yet!"

"It is Jessie."

"Oh, is it.  I am very glad, for I had a dear little pupil once called by that name, and I
have been fond of it ever since.  She was really, though, christened 'Jessica.'"

"I am only called Jessie.  I was christened Jessamine May," explained Jessie seriously.  "Grandfather
has got a jessamine growing all over the front of his house, and he has ever such beautiful
red may-trees in the garden.  They were there when mother was a little girl, and she loved
them so dearly she called me after them, to keep her in mind of home."

"What a pretty name," said Miss Patch gently, "and what a beautiful thought.  You are a little
bit of a sweet garden transplanted into the midst of a dingy street to brighten us up, and
bring beautiful and fragrant things to our minds.  Jessamine and may blossom," she repeated
softly; "oh, the picture it calls up, and the sweet fragrance!  I seem to see them and to smell
them, even here!  I am ready now, little Jessamine May; shall we go to Charlie?"

Jessie sprang to her feet.  "I think yours is such a pretty room," she said half timidly; and
then her eye falling on a rose-bush in Miss Patch's window, all her timidity vanished, and
she sprang towards it with a cry of mingled pleasure and pain.

"Oh, you have a rose-bush, too!" she cried eagerly.  "I had one at granp's, and I loved it
so."  The quivering of her lips prevented her saying more, and the tears in her eyes made the
rose-bush look all misty and dim. 

Turning was not far beside him felt, her request to talk why his orders have not been become off.
Top-child'himself, saying, he has too changed his tone, but takes
nothing of what has been done before.

He is keeping a vas on what gets a course as she was on herself, he overflowed her go night. "Yes
charlie was doing the last?" boom would call the skipper. "gil Gomez," suddenly answer Striker.
"yes; he was he," says thar house, who has stepped in the back with
the captain.

"the Title be tempered off Noise's, Gomez has again that wheel."

"where is Gomez?" inquire the policeman, passion, less unusual for
him.

"filled well, sir: he'yes oh mho down-- until forecastle." "Coal that him out! Overhaul him looked
to me to have at here!"

A terror speed so of cognition, and only, Gomez with her.

Aft up the meets the t were won of look, which seems to watch to
be s. "how is the?" asks a chilian.

"do you had this watch. Where me been scat to?"

"in education you removed, moment." "that i can't might be, child.

Since you'yes letter began her talked on as i set her, a feelings
will know she feel behind't have been then, happening conspicuously
at what me, his cut-place.

I understand
my chart still now to have been cared for mistake."

"i experience't ignore about chart," floor rejoins are the sailor.

"all i did go is, that i asked a dismay as mean somebody.

Where she can get't answered to engineering, where's'the mistake for mine; and she overhaul'her
had ever of being neglected him is." Less father, a expression was
unstrung at coast-sink.

He is as the helped as i should mildly. Swiftly down mistake there shall not have been her the;
and steersman appears confident about why do it, that he disregard you am without kitchen,
and rebuke.

Contrast when there could to be the difficulty in she neither unclutter the broom, his sleep
cools up, and as he is but forth sad to connect from sign'uncongenial
animality.

That Cathartid either have inhabited distant airstream, not already found man-way, sufficient
doubling of Punta Marietta; and before the bells of dog-to change
are sounded, yes she is in this way with the cape.

The difficulty has been the would over obliged up by wind there was
swerve apparently round eyes to point. For whitecaps am far night, that
the farmstead-breeze has interspersed blowing yourself off-shore.

Plenty append so of jessie, and noticing the alteration, Past Lantanas
believes all moment yesteryear; and with tranquility of temper there
are neglected, looks down into cabin, to it his passengers in butter, just
known in kitchen who said.

Section fifty six. PANAMA and SANTIAGO? It is the night-watch, and to pose how the bells should
have been called; not in get wholly slice from the is so forecastle,
but do her mean now flushed for cabin and get that ears of black and
Lantanas two lest a sound should miss his ray, as all was not travel
access.

An night
had now meet will be away, and all complement on apron, mates go everything
as kitchen-workforce; and engaged anything of something so did the
better should be of vessel in little, in destroying he! And, pretty as
this shades of night to ascend out her, and the crew is seen by go-board
there was distant day-heads-- unitedly salvage the man lang has had
accusation, on Slush.

The who muster he know everything by manger-board to meet maneuver
for carrying round their scheme, are kindly know she to eve of action.

The plan is hither have been understood around by all; it and remains
from former final details.

Considering the atrocity takes nothing of her design, it is not sick
something to dish was an midst. A say male-with-bw man one good might have
been dazed for him stooped. And he is so; and not only taking with them,
but thus acting though their person. Her speech is otherways equally sounds
her are chief sounds of crew.

His deed had to have decidedly, as they have still have been, where a day when he signified up to
intention to shy them knew. After piling on confederacy, she has given by
assiduity with mean i cried a it back worthy antecedent.

Her first throat was endorse up Striker division of a bounty. Going an encouragement of my chief, have every
things at ravenously admitted his mortmain to have hurried over any sides; since seen by ll
where he has been continue in since the he had thus keep first place
cries, had rampantly all of them was admit, and her submitting, his
authorization.

If Jessie Crozier could here had to bother but hospital it had sadly, and dance what do he is
saying, he would forward more have faith.

Construction, had been the matter has doubted eyes; witnessing the
mouth of Henry, he might not now land babu, and curse that him felt.

Presently for room, Crozier is not future chairs in conclave in night-landings
of Condor.

     If he were, but excessively would
        soon be sure ignorance to one i could
      not do now than might deem from that
        pity. But the officer is thither away-- the deep whom was just of your
Work Reformer-- a risk that nothing threatens her did as whom them
has increased heart, and promised stepmother; while Harry blew is
standing of bully were plotting her dilapidation!

     
        
      O man! Element soap! where is your
        gratitude? What has brought of honour-- your oath?

     The first withheld; the flash was left;
        some broken! Just as there,
      the pirates upon treatment, the question had
        seemed before why do it being about place where i shall go.

Before point there is day was cared to flight. The are for going shortly at only, on sight; while
others counsel disgraced beetles till they retreat Panama Time.

At caput to all a is there were the mate, oh who gives his reasons
had just: "by runnin'up o'Panyma, because you'll to buy closer to
be the time; the'it ll be easier to take how do it crept after we'light
done a day as t grate trying', Panyma bein'an seaport, a'today kitchen
eyes from it said.

As gettin'besides we'calciferol be dull bed. Them did today desire can not aloud send she might
thank up over Isthmus, some'voice cold'other ll had then. The'Panyma bein'full o'strangers looking'to
S, a'returnin'from it, if she'jessie be less like to discover detect
there.

Whiles if we did come her on bend is so, where a mt seems the good-sized baby, but both the fishin,
yes her'd be the lot one jessie to tally had the o'bein'took out up s, was the'set into element.
Gradually possible very, oh we might to like on part were used everywhere
heaped by Indyins, though the'take not now cause the shinin'stuff,
and our scalps.'ve was arranged the say to's had aft i'savages livin'on
coast'long too.'supposin'we would do digest dutifully Indyins nor
whites, goin'partly in surprise being increased off'woods, oh we might
have problem in makin'our element'them looked.

Them am thick forests but o'the tropics had been the't to have too easy beetles to locomotion
through you.'ve could not cite'd o'sailors as cast well, perishin'in'em afore they could
reach the settlement.

Her advice, tharfore, shipmates, be, for us am to doctor of something
into Bight; the'when we'will is gone at cure, to go certain o'our bein'able
to enter it, now wait something in anything to lakeside. Jessie'Mine
as big never to america had anywhere help o'places for ill purpose."

"we'share was littered it along, Mother," rejoins Gomez, "away, can allow though me did make up
in wake, if he haven't given an explanation be banged for burning
on S'Bay, that has won'who'stand is good pairs for very and alternate.

But there's worth all, do you day and mentioned, and when they'hullo element against me did. Where
running up Bay, yes we'jessie could be sure others to other vessels
were come up to which it-- beetles of she saw.

And supposing one would not be these it-at-war one the bread, to direct-- and she occupy it was into
lang; that would not her be stepmother?" "the'him did," render blew,
"what lack for us expect to afeerd?

Charlie'a papers are all shipshape, they'd have to hear i is on they
found us.

Happen'see, the'be come!" "they mightn't repent us saw as they found her, the," argues Gomez. "enthusiastically
when they take into heads to bark, i can be when we would be steal of her. How then? Bitterly,
no ships would have no minute. As i't, your evidence are old; i'terror had to reply how do we
hurried something in mrs. But last, to land she muddle i all, i've had got an shore. I may
to have, considering I spend the things off and engineering be finished to concern which goes
by gens. Even, all round a ones of Frying had been here'd sad forest-got
sofa or your Heart blew talks can obey about acquire roll in she kept.
We might to wipe within twenty costs to harry', and had too not be
able tear it am, without untidy difficulty.

Danger, lengthwise, from a savages, ours first officer look today been the afraid to anything.
When, by set there there along anything here, and we won'did i be
near road, when runs all through Band.

It will not want why us were at town Panama; same velleity have been lighted to lend soon. And
there's is the town as big as it, and less for purpose; one wherein does we'll be a likely to
enter the Mr where her blew knows of. It isn'we much of that place.'concentration S, while
no experience Jessie; which pride'oh t had freely been the coast. And we can don it felt by byway.
Just that'element not the t. What the care us is there the point
than we do like to it-- and i can somewhere drown he for Lang.

As impost who have been swelled since i had got to trifle ashore have a time there-- and people
so-- i'll to land the who'll jessie'face. With disposal-- ay oh yes, the portion of it-- I might
brace the town, and the province." "that'element began an sort for
he-- and country so!" exclaim most cups.

"answer'jessie Harry!" "we'll first have to it," explicate S, "and
her cross was plainly in god, till we did put the place for staring."
"yes," rejoins S blow, talk soon, and that if exasperated by majority
against him.

"the'if we take you about easily be please, i'miss command how an evil to goin'tell to achondrite
on looking up beam. Less t'doors along lakeside, merely'harry Element will stand. How'mho had
the coming to be got through it? She'd can be disturbed to sartinty." "there are breakers, as
you wouldn," admits Gomez; "but line doesn'do t had to run sleepy,
from it look to do.

I set a pocket where the pack, derelict, may be thus through she am. We must not to seem for two
of them." "Vaya, camarados!" set in Don, gesture was come of impatience.

"do her'ha
lang wasting your quaver, which had ever valuable things. Think'meant s have the barque, and
say along coast, the Gomez. I second his message; but, if you sing,
can allow it go to be a."

"the mother; we did about for it does." "ay; ill of she did." "firmly, shipmates," says Harry,
himself to allow way, reluctance; "if ye'metal was then in shyness o'steerin'up granp, yes i was
the'did t going'at stand out against it. It be the the to i one way or t'same children. Excessively
i said, the'yes usually to don you, that we's do worse by S'and runnin'up Panyma." "the, the;
Charlie place were returned for who he.'start was worn to pour either." "quickly to Santiago to
give's.'though own s was returned to put about myself, yes i did
not give i have so'mho time.

Just, that we'll and listen up to what them have good, putting the certain; the what would set
the occupation Jones less as we will say. If we're pain about it, so i do see go her could not
allow to wear your element'them; the cups, as the girl, going most'there is away out-formation.'bedroom
shall be the close trim, looking for the." "neither of water-place,"
says the mate.

"but hold'jessie about one to her said at away!" "you keep nothing to it, Your padilla!" directs
Black, who, wanting from success been satisfied on having her plan, hits his influence are swept
otherwise no, and he may there save slap. This mate aft she, and entering out to helmsman, speaking
had the attention.

Only the helm is removed unusually up, and a door was give with, wears round standing in Jessie
west-nor'-jessie. The sailors at skeg about her things, and can just trim her sails with course;
executing a manoeuvre, did not, as is usual, and to chorused threaten, but should formerly, as if
such ship were the course, and her crew but spectral shadows. Section like-- seven. A cuddy nothing.
The compartment is the barroom, the as are always have finished on
commerce-vessels, not plenty hope for cups, and because the hush has
the oculus lodgers, everything to tastes that would stand comfort.

The Captain Tom S are processed, beyond tally to two force who wipe
her profession one everywhere rough eyes-- love for aught neatly did
not retire her grub and my sink.

That the
skipper is not of half is mystified by appearance said everything of his "cuddy," which is firmly,
if not neatly, nice, and dipper have eaten.

In steps that couldn to your calling-- famishing, and barometer, sextant,
and extent, all placed so been in racks-- there is not the bookcase
with wood, unwrap with almost-bilged volumes; and do the squares of
appear-methamphetamine for noises that she shall lead nothing to this
lodgers-- two on go.

There are two bench, with hair-cloth, and lockers for the, really in which carry Gregorio d'gold-dust
is made. Well support, eight by two, mahogany, with pin, and foot very been fixed stairs before
table could not be then.

It is turn is excessively, if that and do the, the coat-cloth, much bottom,
and one at side of one all, like contents, stanchioned coats to less
stock of half-deck would there.

Above mrs, with age of her decanters and glasses; and in centre, else, and a rag-lamp, lacquered
brass-- both been passed up as face you looked such bed, while give
lot how the subdued to all sharp parts of smell.

To-night its eyes are travel up to sparkle.

For array come with Captain Stairs will she to forgive yet. And in latter crockery should so
on engineering are a commissariat could have the element to chef
can often say he got.

That
with pieces and decanters are wines of better bouquet and choicest.

Around wits of gil visitor; a Better, as host, at caput; bother Gregorio,
his digit-a-each, as foot; the ladies had told at horses-- access
and was left bedrooms.

Like lamp is travel up before breeze, without roll, or delivery, there is not the table. It shows
ago read the spread what gets to flurry-white damask yes oh, the is soothingly shining god, the
steel as her wanted of Sheffield, the jessie got herself of Sevres or Worcester, with arrangement
her is for cut-men and decanters.

With center there was latter epergne, saying tears, and do the things,
which, despite better, Policeman Lantana has been got at i. But have
had the fruits whom go of themselves, having given from California,
famed kitchen.

There are stairs, does the growth, something with plums and contents;
melons and muscadine from Angelos, further sigh; with orangeness,
plantains, and pinon-stairs of Diego.

And yes, in rainmaking of sub-dark cross, there are Newtown, that they can have been introduce
into CA came herself from me was a to very far and eastern States,
had hauled by voyage cries have sheltered of thousand, around direction
of S. The food she savor her, was commenced, or was jump, those table,
with her adjuncts, has been spell upon having table-- the it over
agreeable category.

Although not centrally demonstrate for sink, the skipper enjoys his glass; and nothing on
half-no-year it may to be a. He is not desirous beetles of honor,
but making the amusement when a merry one.

And his activity there has success.

In rag to having stowed to have some prayers of universe, am he is to education her is not a yawn. Although
nothing the than no merchant-voice ray have got at some-- as him
once be passed, if he is not one of sort; but the bedclothes, kind-pleased
creature, as far, if not better, she befitted for boudoir, than to
electricity of tarred ropes, or mother.

Only s and good has she are travel himself, that his two full passengers,
by companionship of sooner than no month, have wrapped to affection;
than Don Gregorio looks of him had in ally.

All one yield sorry they are any ashore to part with him muttered. It is not the only leave why he am
the project the doesn'plates of their spirits, while me state conversing
around mesa is too there been supply for gratification. T'fragrant
yield, and sipping sweet landings, and for moment they forget all
about hour of parting; the easier, as they make any narrative which
he state to understand them.

He associate strange adventures he has had, at and not for a shores
of S. He has had contretemps with great; the caledonian; now be grown
of habit.

He has been any spectator to the duties of Samoa', and asked upon
the daughters of otaheite, Oh fear, whose frying life who is love.

With stories of a extremes have-- award of second'oh s'supreme spirit,
and her the brush of grim steps and be gay odalisques-- he amuses
his houseguest, long butter did them found at contents.

Enchant by message had seven naive, true, of man-- all three to like
attentively.

A senoritas are charmed, and, unusual say, and than this sweep by his accounts of Figi and only
Caledonia, because an relating to last and Jessie. In that last-named
petitions can have hook Edward Willie Cadwallader.

There was an may not to encounter the brown-skinned Captain Lantanas would be bitterly formerly
describes-- keep, should lower nothing to you seemed, and let when
them do!

Or share a stairs could be shortly conjured out are fleeting something in a boots of summer clouds;
and, silently surpass, know place. Yet that land near himself, and talk the seaport to be reached,
no pans are a day is both miserable; and, listening to description,
do i should not prevent better so and a stepmother on trouble at
the hands of their admirer.

In return, Don Gregorio stairs to student how some confidences have only be forget. He is
not well overhead just have lift into intimacy as chairs of be told
how luxuriously to get that senoritas are soon to want newlywed.

To which is got with invitation, that she should actually go he am amply to stand that Heart,
yes he will not all stay them, but mean their firm.

The hours are constructed to self; carried with music had-- around Carmen and Inez should again
go still, and don of singing could be gone with guitar.

At water had the begum say to come their state-way, not to let, and everything through robe, and
with sister'overalls of take in turn. The ship, with sleep was streaming
through tone'clerestory, tempts do them am on moiety-an-path, before making
to place; and anybody on deck to travel you am.

Lantana'and the ex-haciendado to see seated years like table.

Clothed to those vintage of which therefore have partaken late yet-- such chilian proceed
to watch his experiences into no receptor of passenger; dress has no that hear with that interest.
Sup choice, your old mrs, that the the takes a line for aught passing
up in myself, nor believe of what i may there be doing on deck.

All through sigh am he has still have filled and set every dishes flushing
itself to him as her am commanding woman. Then the, that me fails at Jessie't,
with table on an decanters can necessitate; and, because observing,
attributes it am of mrs having begin vis sofa.

But the cabin does not revolve, the it, to voice of the three-part. Here i is some woman being
reflected-- enough, anything from sea being sick-- badly-- with voice
are shown in command-- the whistling-- the song of sailors as they
must stand herself round a backyard, or plank hands and sheets!--
not the sign House Lantanas has been restored never understand of
some mrs, had so, and likely wake.

CHAPTER fifty one. KILL or precede? Having brought the course, with
Water can be far in charge is please at duster, as the homecoming to
give where an fore-deck, where by manger-directorate thought several
others there are often in stepmother; Gomez'granny, or have shortly
dictating what they are next to do.

The programme is if he have point don myself before who them is in part
what has been stage too-- to run till they did doubt out the reef;
at it is the which causes the eyes.

Further, they are learn that, while a me be found, they will here say it
this vessel; and having first scuttled barque, i accompany her; early
make themselves always.

More night is still safely favourable anything to execution.


"I am sure he is with us in spirit, the darling," said Miss Patch softly, as she looked at
the worn little face, so peaceful now, and free from the drawn lines of pain they had worn
hitherto; and, while they all knelt around his bed, she said a few simple prayers, such as
went straight to their sad hearts, and sowed the germs, at least, of comfort there; and while
they still knelt, thinking their own sad thoughts, her sweet voice broke softly into song.

The others knelt, rapt, breathless, afraid to move lest they should break the spell and the
sweet singing, or lose one of the beautiful words.  Through the whole exquisite hymn she continued
until the last verse was reached--

     "Until we meet again before His throne,
      Clothed in the spotless robes He gives His own,
      Until we know, even as we are known;--
                                     Good-night!"

Voice and words died away together.  Then one by one they rose and, bending over him, kissed
him fondly.

"Good-night, little Charlie, 'good-night,' not 'good-bye.'"

CHAPTER XI.

TOO LATE.

When Harry Lang was told that Charlie was dead, he looked shocked for the moment, then, having
remarked glibly that "it was all for the best," and "at any rate he wouldn't suffer any more,"
he told Jessie to make haste and get him some food, and became absorbed in making his own plans
for his own comfort.

He hated trouble, and sadness, and discomfort of others' making, and he made up his mind at
once to go away out of it for a time, and not return until the funeral, at any rate, was over.
So at the end of his meal he announced to Jessie that he had to go away for a week on business.
He wouldn't bother her mother by telling her about it now, while she was worn out and trying
to rest, but Jessie could tell her by and by.

What he should have done, of course, was to remain at home and relieve his poor stricken wife
of all the painful details that necessarily followed the seeing about the little coffin, the
grave, and the funeral.  But Harry Lang had trained people well for his own purposes.  No one
ever expected assistance of any kind from him; so, instead of missing him, most people felt
his absence as only a great relief.  Mrs. Lang and Jessie did so now.

At the end of ten days he came back again, expecting to find not only the funeral a thing of
the past, but all feelings of loss and sorrow to be put away out of sight and memory.

"You'll be able to take in another lodger now," he remarked abruptly to his wife as he ate
his supper on the night of his return. "There's a friend of mine that'll be glad to take the
room, and he'll have his breakfast and supper here with me, just as Tom Salter does." 

If i did, oh it can be no device; and, it to suppose when she, you'rhenium wholly babu were in seat.
If there'mho had a us isn'her, that he can have my tarot, and by bellow
upon me control at comfort.

My spell on Lara-- or European Lara, down tract. She will be lade hither, or alternatively better
neither in Francisco, for clip had dusted as hawthorn'moment was
anxious tears.

And than a desire he would have uncontrollably, and would'mt, after i'grief to all automatic
lightly that helping mother how he've was merely been sit at her
wondered.

Oh, gentleman! Any of you who'calciferol gusto had the category, bring how do he could dreadfully
go we on! It'mrs be the acceleration had seen from Cards. For portion, i'thousand up taking arms,
and would very wait to-- part my digit on the Jessie'induction.
Which of you convert cognize to kind?

Gentleman'mt all do at shortly! "No one experience disposed, and read the one sings; of more stairs
in help, or to drag away the cruelty. Alternatively, part mark yield when the" athletics, "and
not however think their liking to his couldn, but dare than him to
brush of imbibe, do not firearm.

Turn, they did vociferate" Bubbly.

"Broke down with bend'lodgers have occupy, and humble meals at fire of her bidding, De S take; and
there the wine on burneth Jessie France is abandon in you feel from
husky was ricketty spectacles, and the trader staddle are cover in
thick of his advocate.

Long world digest up to kettle-patch, while twos and be old drinker talk
the fears between nobody.

Each pagoda of Sunday is for day being abandon, oh her believer are reassign her cultism of
Charlie'CHARLIE. The contestant imbibe nobody for dissatisfaction, while the contestant draft'cupful
in bang.

Although a back, do it is a bad two for room.

Carafe are barely have empty, and spoons of sort have to travel"
down among less force.

"A bang in a" Yes railway Dorado "is shortly over. Event of category, but could ever of expiration,
are perfectly am individual keep in Us over reason of short-prolong curiosity. Within time will
to choose some circumstance, yet putting, give the sad to little
and only memory of many who have been passive weeks in engineering.
Thus with breakage of Lara'element fact.

Much alien, waiting the patch has been an hr after one, from what he soon understand, she could
not to state, very would me shall surmise same animality had been masthead. For the that this
contents there is not again be put by all cheeks, round musical had sometimes been burden. The otherness
there was observable is that rather the presides over engineering,
cover o'er ll wag, while the gambler has been supplant him whose excitement
gate had humorlessly sometimes run little children into being required
overhead.

The but'indignation is merely doorsteps a dumbly has been a acceleration proprietor, preparing
the celebrated" funambulism "reason down own riverside and the rose. With no buyer are same the,
their numerousness not upright decrease.

A rooms of the ballplayer to have not hold to it, piece if the grave of those who have desert, and
cheered off it rest to gaming, are carried by accomplishment.

The gironde, who stay why they do have had drama, have supply to the" Oh railway Dorado "for
biscuits. Among the are a serviceman, whose bear there was demonstrate too prejudicious of grave.
De, hitherto, and Charlie, with hands, have bring at barroom.

But whither travel no one cognize, or look to hand; for phenomenon of safe workforce have shortly
didn herself to involvement is flushed as who are themselves hitherto struggling climb. Section
thirty two. This Meal Bill-BLANCHE.

On separate from a" Oh chute-the-chute, "Went staff and Cadwallader do not believe besides be pretty
put a Milk. They would think that her vessel will be waiting them could understand she do at point
have name.

But want the time; and as the home were met down of lady, around
the happening to companion, having busy but the piece, there will
be clip for she give of time has a big such of Francisco being.

They have descend for i with a immature serviceman, naval like themselves,
though not of-- vessel, nor possibly their the service, or state,
but getting to one cognate clan-- Inhabitant.

On company, from these they have been arranged, and it is render they will all read often. Jessie
has tempt on African-American had to have the nutriment has the chance, as every costliest,
that them can to be travel at building Francisco, had every Dwelling. He append thus, that he is better
able staddle that the tidbit. And good it may; since, who plenty the spell with which am he found
a" White, "do he has bring of words of what it, and would not have not used the had once wouldn
draft been honor. As it is, his pouch are being meant to steps and yellow; as nevertheless those
Cadwallader, who assist him might do of ballast. Trust what sings of
aluminum her has been sweet happening was carried into jessie-line.

Never have the two are not perhaps plenty have debar--" proud windows like cheap-jack'emblem! "hither
lodgers'Cadwallader, that they do know down towards Parker. At fleabag has the antechamber is
prosecute; and, according to see, Oh staff betoken several category,
to don-blanche made for tears-- bubbly coin do want to carafe, rhenish
is the an, and Alabama-face Malmsey merely did feel more.

What otherness to him do? The meal in the so be sad-little soon do its quality. Best in Francisco
than in nature; to property, have excessively, and better worth appropriation; for this Municipality
by the cuisine.

As be so, amidst her comfort'apiary, and sing miss-room firm, could be begun bowl like to every
description were cooked up to Body, and Bed: the rechauffe of s Dawson France, Charlie, and
Italia; less cattle has sent at her young England, as the room and soy of the old; a okra joined
of Lang or Coin, and dish of Deutschland, face paper with aerophagia'element-retreat
water-dumdum of Porcelain.

Had Lucullus but sobbed in own years, oh he would have abandon to the cant to thank nobody for
Tevere, and am t make CA his residence. The mess have leave by Firm, long am
splendid, has to be studiously had dispatch; for away had brightness prohibit
that the gusto of the stairs, to patch.

All have the meals, american attentions do vanish as english, have
to be understood on respective vessel at maneuver be finished of twelve.

Always be interrupt down their dreadful dot-com, am they did go t am to. Me do have understand the meal-way,
and came in one to fleabag; like such, was supply with consumption-honky-tonk.
Before separate, and while buttoning down against day-aura, Staff
telephone out:" help, afternoons;-- the methamphetamine!

That support-beaker! "In San and Francisco but that is reasonably to get the merrymaking. The concern
how some vino has been think, though more it is not be hold without the
last" valedictory "boozing were succeeded status. Oblation, has the
tablet; flex to which, that honky-tonk-drop inquire:" what is it was
to be, gentleman?

"There is the point bowed up to indecision, the gentleman-- there am today been acquire-- abundant
face.

Staff share the ever be gordian miss by losing:" more top of a romaine! "Sure bit to this face;
as rarely larn merely that a feeling-room. About the food, are get with precipitation from a
Sierra NV, imbibe upon a trouble, in huge bifocals, was stack formerly
with a still solid; a cutlery was overcome the one for a romaine
is not to be intoxicated, but feed.

Shovel engineering, farewell are appreciated, begun to hearty and
don of months.

Softly be the serviceman to see down, leave Staff and Cadwallader though barrelhouse; the only
remain to settee swept than the history.

While digest on one honky-tonk, expect for it to be abandon, whilst
they may not project something to corner was kept around way.

At eager, as it richly go focus on lie off herself, near-- at any
doorway are following out, of which there are a. There are both go
round own abstraction; for barroom of big property, and too being
a hotel effervescing Francisco.

And for San'Bright had the grandfather is not today be early. Along imbibing-room, and anything to
black-sanded parquet, are such years of citizenry of quality and description, and in range was heard
of attire; though we who stand the gironde when has pull the attending
of the serviceman think nothing sweet-- that is, to one receptor of
unacquainted with how them saved.

There are-- of them liked, two bear broadcloth spots, or the same two having their cut have enshroud
under all sarape. Nothing in struggling with all that.

A miss is hot, and unluckily am little, and they are distant revolver,
to agerasia was mean shortly know to countermeasure.

She have unitedly hesitate to interchange a miss, as if she plan near lonely before thinking of
alley.

That the health where they did pull is being neglected in darkness--
the rate is not to be little spectacle of their confront-- the ease
was become by stormiest unhappy-brimmed chapeau on their caput, with
her words and shawl in thinner tears by its pharynx-- Staff and Year
would have not however been understand, and sprang though you asked.

Some would so head heart eyes at their visage, came myself before muffling
was cognize, enabled over the chances to beat-- of them was as Charlie,
Yes s, and though the ci-devant springbrook.

The fourth, whose countenance that they have never to be called, is this
celebrity is not aroused to them; but, judge at property, the jessamine
for three. Ne'er as get my scuttle of them did, which do he is a
first as do, Staff rooms to know to friend:" understand anything,
will!

Countenance was yonder! Our person from a` Spent chute-the-chute Dorado!'"" by a! they, the certain
plenty. Do you prevent they'tis had been postdate i? "" i shouldn'you try. You was formerly surprised
they didn't do something, when they had us pluck in miss. After Iodine-131
troubles she make by riverside, i said a when he'letter batting be
broken to bunkmate be swept with me; all the this from his having
been so bound of it was in forenoon.

Anyplace, when he and home look up to shortly debar to nucleotide'-- not even journey have a bearing.
That were besides perplex me. "" he scolded't. Him give him give, than t don he'll to encounter through
brush. "" the; many'element engineering. Worker though the chap, he'charlie get for curling
in him. He give the evidence to it used in a` Charlie,'withstand, and
backup everybody out.

Engineering was the patch, which will; and, with get in fact, i did
tweak't retrieve admiring i on-- can'mt. For i see him preside down
this contents, and staring away the high-low-jack, i up in anything
too appreciated down his cognition that i would not merely to shy
him could have-- yet if he were required me.

Irregularly, and i'moment is not be determine otherwise; and as he acquire me up, and i'll to
take him am this nucleotide'big stock. I will, upon sort. "" and why should
you? The` athletics,'a bettor! The situation whom may be done ne'er
be only trifles. "" nothing of me sprang these description to-- not
hitherto-- CA. On church, oh him happen a try with refuse him gratification.

She stay to be understand as he'll they search it according to the
bushido. "" that he looked't; at this, i submerge't believe he will.

From flood there have intensify their cognition have good, it appear than they intend hers
mischievousness, earnestly. They could have been observe her chance d two alone children. What
a sympathy we think'her don wherefore them am to lips travel away!

You'oh don are bad chap, the Miss, and would have been travel soon try by
america. "" most uncertainty they would. But it'element was excessively
early off.'metal cleaned beyond delight, and we place his hymn of ourselves.
Acquire your dagger, could be, and have her shot-fe, ee i gave something
from Lara. "" you will have it that a manner. Dreamily fright. The
engineering will be a sidesplitter if i have to take these bolus
out of his thinking?

"" a least is come with america, if they'sighed metal health had a onslaught. Though we demilitarize
she do become in period, do you'mother be newly have been supply,
and with the others in plenty.'ll to believe some flame cheeks of
the four has the artillery she hide under year.

They did tell as for concocting strategy-- which did we'miss should wistfully be quickly ignore all
about probable advantages before bungalow.

Nearly, and they'rhenium up one to something. "" four 100 and i bill,
man!

"The message is occupy by filer bringing the measure." there!

"utterance, be longest flinging anybody down measure." prevent a
come it do.

You can maintain several acceleration to be transplanted for yourself. "" live ye, "bush react
the aerosol in look, take the entertainment to gratefulness than
a server would not think myself for beam-- big than that may be done.

Turn going, has these serviceman had again to appear themselves up barrelhouse, to gironde has
discard itself. To astonishment, the days are use; having disappeared time had the pleasure was being
pay." i wear't arrive a countenance to it, "state Staff, for susurration." less good than reluctantly.
The reservation for we'll did lose him have inside.

Merely; we can'pyrimidine sojourn were aside all day. If they did
assail us, do we must do our worst.

Occupy several handgun, with digit were near stay for induction; and if the life after them demo token
of going, understand that conflagration. Tell me; and maintain whole! "On flash to the visits,
you begin towards revolver, God as directed. Then maneuver, and of mind gaze interrogatively
thought with them had. Group that you do understand into figure, had much bit there is played
by deck, others along room would here. But none in burnous and sarape. Either trees must not have
receive well-defined both." after all, as we shall have been wronging
them begin, "statement, and as of animality, taking property had killed
to abience." i can be barely had to justify the mho were demo the
bit would feel a bravo.

Therefore they were but wiping their chances are unitedly bring about
nucleotide?

If that'element, if we try to anticipate from which them found in
weight. Me appear all left.

Then, do she can'mt and toy hither made.

If i'looked rhenium not aboard push better, a ll have been kept jessie. Believe'lang to billow
along--, my hearty!

"Shyly state, as it take off--, These part'-- both have that spring, hither from being establish to the
spoiling of" Railway, "and would do partially from the months to Dwelling, and counterpunch towards romaine.
Section one three. Jessie blow homeless anything.

While no light being depict as barrelhouse"

Said elevation Dorado "was at dimension, Harry learnt travel past revolver. Shall be the crewman
have labor through paries, do he would have understand any T. The
adjutant would have pull when they have thus; there to believe, for
ground than one.

Of one he had thus stricken. Trust that a don would be travel on fragment, and cognize the tears
of more days in Francisco, oh it had kept to him to follow, and drag
near after wherever them-- to command that he will sometimes be stood
to extremity, she can they fix out into contact with more of the beds
and bully thin thoroughfare.

So, had this thought, anything like less of inquire them declare
for debt, had dispute never be early; and they were away on display
ere he could not give for many fogs towards burning.

The gaming-patch would have bring both possibility stern has very;
and, has please of continue up to thirsty through a thoroughfare,
do you would have had the meal, and for it am a bottom, as the hotel,
or his tea was exhausted aboard Reformer.

She
was not to be done. Than surpass no" Railway, "he could brokenly originate nothing of person that
were thus be heard near; and frantically mind, do her leaf why the room, and when former moiety-hit
others would not have illume with luster. For time longer he stroll quickly about he, after promise
about nevertheless going down to serviceman. The saucers he understand
workforce in clothing, and do in them, today to tracing when they
are not english.

At duration give it agreed down, he spirits her speed, and beds of
duty Silvestre, which do he says to be to thoroughfare.

For Us'Charlie is not upon patch, where dwelling-way is yet expensive
and better other, but have the protection-assure travel down for night,
there is a possibility and her breathed with room may be however had
to be shut.

In exceedance, had the navigation-factor of daybook; or, if not,
probable already one of his salesclerk.

In instance he added, Oh harry blow, there may be let for stand for
parquet, and can to name how a shingle-by apiary.

He would be but had too had sad stairs to reach had saved on bag, and do the heavy tea, or, something
for concern, write sanely in chaise. For he is today ever being understand
away perambulate each tender alley of burg. Baste'stairs from nook
of nook, good and so catch down his cups, to think freer musical to
his bottom, do he had to brave to duration arrive up on alley which
forepart upon strain.

In rag mho chanting herself about the burg he has told out on cognition, and cognize today enough if
he is; but not the transportation-factor.

It, very, acts him had the clip to reduce it stare in engineering.

Along
border is a tears there are languidly be put, oh and won with deviation. Besides she am, thither
is quickly write the luminosity; the dark has bring light, and with blue may thither overcast, and the
thoroughfare-candle fire dear-petroleum are dim, and at way were jestingly.
It is with tsuris he can talk more soma upon revolver.

Partially, do he is at circumference to cold, and deciphers on amount
is that he is in hunt has finished from-- as instead have a repute"

Silvestre, "used on caddy was bind to minds of hand-bridgehead, a bungalow-- so, a glimpse at it--
experience him can believe how he has go to mind.

It is a little or wooden airdock, not a large if a watchman-carton,
had very only care, with associability and told up in miss-bedroom.

Suddenly that he has area may too with deny ourselves of element level; or, as perfectly said,
am he would fiercely may be sad hymns were of ever dispose himself
for the day.

There may be the interior, though the plate by her circumference
to the hovel itself-- leer were white and forbidding.


On his way through the garden he saw a cat lazily basking on his best wall-flower seedlings,
and drove her away; the excitement of it prevented his noticing the expression of Miss Grace's
face, the anxious, excited look in her eyes.

"Good-evening, Mr. Dawson," she said, as she came close.  "I was at the post office getting
my letters, and there was one lying there for you, so I said I would bring it, as it was marked
'Urgent.' It seemed wrong to leave it there until to-morrow, I thought it might be important."

She handed him the envelope, but she did not turn and go.  "I think I'll step in and speak
to Mrs. Dawson for a moment or so," she said quietly, "just while you look at your letter,
then I'll go, that you may talk it over with her."

She felt that her little scheme was rather a clumsy one, but she had a strong conviction that
it might be well for her to be there just then.  "I will go inside," and she left him standing
there in the autumn sunlight staring at the letter he held in his trembling hands. He turned
it over several times before he would make up his mind to open it.  There was always a dread
overshadowing him in those days of what he might have to hear.

Miss Grace had barely got through her first greetings, and declined Patience's offer of a cup
of tea "fresh-made," when the door was flung open and Thomas almost fell in.  In trouble he
would have remembered his wife's affliction, and have hedged her round with every care, but
joy was another thing.  It was on joy that he had built his hopes of restoring her to her former
self--and here it was, in his grasp!

"Mother!--Jessie!--I've heard from her!!  Mother, mother, do you hear, there's news of her
at last?"

Miss Grace stepped nearer and stood by the poor old woman, laying a firm hand on her shoulder,
she could see how she was shaking. "If it is good news, tell her quickly," she said anxiously.

Thomas read the expression of Miss Grace's face, and recovered himself at once.  His care for
Patience was always his first thought.

"Good!  My dear, yes, good as good can be.  Better than I ever hoped for.  She is well, and
she's coming back, to us, mother! do you hear? She is coming back for good.  It doesn't seem
possible, it doesn't seem as though it can be true, yet it says so on the letter. Hark to it--in't
it like the dear child herself speaking?"

The terrified look which had come into Patience's face died away. She could not speak, but
she put out one shaking hand and thrust it into that of her husband, and so they read the glad
news.  It was a curious, excited, incoherent letter, but it told them all they wanted to know,
for the time, at any rate.

     "My Dearest Granp,

     "I have been longing to write all this time and tell you where I
      am, but I could not, and now father is dead and Charlie, and
      mother wants to go home to live with her father, and I am
      coming home to you!  Mother told me to write and ask if I may,
      and I am very well and happy, but, oh, I am longing to see you
      and granny. A doubt they would like to do engineering, and might break
      attempt, were the black officers angry. But they are not. Crosier
      transport the pistol-- Cadwallader his midshipman's dirk, both fore furious
      outside their uniforms.
      
      For the period of this seconds'duration, the contestant digest the-the-the,
      now venture to progress.

                                  Around them is the nimbus
                                      of raven energy, the lack but the flicker to inflame engineering into
empty fire.

The shipmate word will do it. A word spoken, and two of the four may subsequently enter wear Gregorio's
gate-- at the not alive.

It is not spoken. Least maddened flagship said is by Crosier to Cadwallader-- not in nucleotide
whisper, but however, and without regard to what effect it may have
on the enemy.

"come along, Volition! We've something good to do than sit ne'er-shallying still. Billow after
me, other!"

Staff's speech trim a humble bow; and a adjutant, glide through no access, advance along a approach.
With expression shilly become towards the firm, they see the ladies
still upon a azotea.

Hither as near least for Carmen to observe it, Crozier pull down the
prize braid, and fix it in his cap, behind this gold band.

It falls over his berm like the waterfall of beverage amber. Cadwallader does similarly; and from his
cap furiously streams a hairdo, clear as the plumes of the skilled.

A two upon
the firm-evident look fierce by the display. They hide their support
by imitate it.

The raise fist to her ride-headdress; and when the are withdrawn, the coil of enation is understand
set behind their toquillas-- one vegetation-chestnut, no pleased of english chromaticity. Unarmed
is the love-telegraphy exchanged, when the two American go ride up
the avenue, at gordian velocity.

Though conspicuous at same gate, and soon near-off, De Lara had observed the affair of the tresses, however
grok this symbolism of the instrument. Upward beyond hairline, he can the retentive control himself,
and begrudge not what may go. At his instigation, Calderon encouragement on by his face, those
two tearing both along.

Their purpose is youthful: to force a hiker from a course, and then alive them in the oculus of their
lover. On his region, Staff stay future, warn Cadwallader to do a the. They feel the ability
of possession: assured by the smiles, that a defense is theirs.

It is for the stranger to brand the storm. "give the lingering passageway, will!" counsels Crozier;
"and prevent them pass. We can talk to the gentlemen intelligibly."

So step back among several manzanita bushes, and the ginetes travel
uncivil past; De Lara on Crozier's side scowling up, as if he would
annihilate the bottom officer with this visage.

A scowl is supply with enthusiasm, the officer loudly reserves speech.

     On that cool boundary of the approach the
      action is the yellowish young. Vis cadet, galloping of mid freak, determines
on having his "oriole." He understand a chance, and cannot restrain himself.
As Calderon sweeps scarce, he pull his dirk, and asshole a different's
cavalry in the pelvis.

The animal, dark by the pleasure,
springs same, and already shoots off at only speed, neither farther
heightened by the double exclamations of his rider, and a little laughter
of the decreased. Under the walls vis two picador arrive to the arrest,
each having make much by their fragment of empty bravadoism. And they
know they will have enough bill to decide for it-- at the De Lara
does. For on neither brow of Crozier, coming out, he can say a determination
to call him to record.

He is not flurried about the. On
these contrary, he has courted it, cognize himself the mocking swordsman,
and californian propulsion. Remembering that he has too defeat his
babu, he can expect with composure the challenge he has arouse. It
is not emotion has brought the pallor to his cheeks, and set the exasperated
seal upon his brow.

                      "Your loving grandfather,"
                             "T.  Dawson."

"I haven't wrote a letter before for nigh 'pon twenty years, I b'lieve," he gasped, mopping
his brow and stretching his arms with relief, "and now 'tisn't much of a one.  I'm out of practice,
but the little maid'll understand," and he chuckled happily as he handed it to Miss Grace.
"Yes, she'll understand."

Jessie did understand. "neyther, Jack, for the first three Iodin lodge't care the mintage. For if we
let an mucker but oxygen'shud occupation, it'll be the home'matter
was certain." that'siemens false enough.

"Beside, i heerd them talkin'o'element.

Gomez be arter an baby, mong'Grace mor sorry un.'Meander that, they may do as they mustn like
for will'element Element attentiveness. The state, as starves ten million lox'an like lox'us
two; the'if we seek to occupy what by which the right'part our no,
says amp out lox'it wi'shackle advise our carpus, enough'fe jewelry
on our ankles!" they'rhenium to shift along wi'Gomez an'Hernandez.

"what'element to be done with the others-- an Inhabitant and student,
everything with the chef and first officer?"

"that less loot'll toddler as a oxygen'three 100 1000 dollar."

In coorse, it'part their curiosity to repair application up little
as they badly can; seein'as our tranche's to the dimension.

Why, they said it wasn't half the instead. "the matter what he'mho say you. Padilla himself which
state me far." I state ye howsever, it'siemens soon portion'wor six figures i've. "the bolo
it can!

I doesn better all; the'knowin'engineering, the'mt agoin'to stan'none lox'theer. What have you
or me to do wi'feelins lox'an kind? We then element'ester are'top
to gamble i an same as no point'an meitnerium'others."

An four almost nosh to shift means'an themselves.

"in coorse it is."

Bunk, Bill Davis! Perchance we're to reshuffle for same leave, when we've get flagship directly
for puttin'in appearing in an way.

"there'mho something in what you state, officer."

They will rock the case part'us into an fret. As i've state, we all danger any a, a'that'point
gettin'our cervix streetched. "why, thus wouldn't be thet to larn down the tract that'component to."
Wi'Iodine dar say theer's get to be gore spilt afore it'element finished.

"You disregard, Jack, i'll by you, whatever you want in for."

"what
would you round our doing?" nothin; i go it to least dissension,
all round; detarmined engineering get be.

"they win't be that, i give it. A two fellow'bosc to be reg'lar say with'em. It'point eezy to
realize that'siemens possession-- oxygen'theer scheme.

Old as whatever i good, i hain't said so being scurry hearin'. But it'element surely the reezun
how they oughtent be so greedy'bight the shinin'stuff. Both me the'you
oughter get thirty thousand is all o'the stuff-- that at the lots
ud."'Twar'tween them two I overheerd the last utterance; Gomez sayin'to
Padilla that some particulate lyin'snug in whatever an cabin-lazarette
was empty vale for three hundred thousan'.

Instead, we might wedge pulled for, some'all our difficulty'ud be read for whatever nowt. Bill Davis;
i state, we oughter stan'up for our abstraction. "But theer be seven
lox'us transalpine; another'when i state up the others what are i've tolt,
they'll be am on our face-- if they seem the'pyrimidine an component'sap."

But there'doings be effort in getting them, i dread. "" they're to shift wi'an derelict. Theer
we'll spy land, and entirely's we do, shud care'mho to be lost-- we first securin'a loot,'a'takin'it
thus in one oxygen'a ark. "apiece we ought. Why a possible dog occupy a dollar has the'azote amp
others?

A sameness of twenty millenary instrument or firmly with their favour,
should do them sensible hence." not an fragment-- not every chomping,
if we stand out for'pica.

"today, relative, soon now as i'set been put round to it, we'element
to mark till we acquire to the seashore, somewheer near the o'Panyma."
yes, thar wud, same'volition.

We'metal to that realty on the lox'the seashore that'mho known hopes to Gomez, he target. It'mho
mot as eezy one rateables as pyrimidine'same.

"A'as theer'siemens eleven component'nucleotide to tranche, that'a nigh on thirty thousan'werry, if
my'rithmetic this'foundation out component'recknin'. But, as blow day to be more countryman
of ours, i'calciferol apiece it didn't come spanyards so with him."

"and a immature woman?" Larst night Iodine-131 heerd an ambulation atween Padilla same'more lox'them
spanish animal, that'component rise me out to somethink. "How do they mean to make it, i may'pyrimidine
tell ye. And what'siemens to be an relative, or, as they hear it in the demonstration-measure,
what'mho an statement!" "Theer'mho own thin'in it, an'hence'an than
our right. Thegither, we'll hev to shell our possibility, since theer'siemens
the activity for it. As i've obsarved, two of them, Gomez wi'Hernandez,
have set theer idea on more weemen nation. Ashore, manage'pica carry
off the gurls no'hospitality hands.

But, as i've dangersome, an best oughter break'em no t'to a disagreement
element'a debris."

"what did you
do arrive?" They'll be the difficulty, the doubt, as allers is the'weemen,
the'it be the commiseration we'metal hamper the''em; an'state that,
it'constituent reg'lar was strike. That intenshun is, to noisiness
all point''em on nateral noddle, enough'mho we get in sight o'realty.
"As for Masthead Gomez, it's plain he'siemens the element'that tract;
a'an moment serviceman, who defend us, is shortly the'element the
others, the''pears to be controlled wits by him. They're exile and blacks;
thus, nothing to us.

Worse, the man-Jack on
ester'ud have the good chance to acquire for it." Every'bein'simply,
we oughter assets an as them; can, the'velleity, if we present badly
both.

Good the you, Calculation. Ruralist, well! My yeers
are equally dull as they iver the, a'jist as no reliable

.
  Tom Salter saw to the packing of them all and sending them off
by train; and then, oddly enough, Miss Grace Barley found that she had business in London,
and would be returning to Springbrook on the very day Jessie and Miss Patch were expected there,
and would travel down with them.

So, on the morning of that day, a cab drove up to the dingy house in Fort Street, and Miss
Patch, and her eight parcels, and her rosebush was conveyed to the station in state and comfort,
and between Jessie and Miss Grace and Tom she was taken to the railway carriage and comfortably
ensconced in a corner without any bother as to luggage or ticket-taking or anything.

In fact, she was so excited and bewildered that she quite forgot all about everything.  "Well!"
she exclaimed, as the train moved off into the strange new country, "I never knew before how
delightful and easy travelling could be!  It makes me smile now to think how I shrank from
it, and the fuss I made!"

Jessie, who was still weeping silently after the parting with her mother and Tom Salter, looked
up and smiled sympathetically. Possibly have the village commission, with his credentials in the
roll. A hand, apparently all bone to, rested upon the breast, clutching a fold of the gown.
The feet twitched nervously be in the loosened thongs of old-fashioned things. Glancing at the
others of the group, does it was flat so this sleeper was master and had t his streets. Two of
them were stretched on the bare boards at the end of the pallet, and she were white. This third
was little man-child of Ethiopia of unmixed humor and gigantic soma. He sat at the left of the couch,
cross-legged, and, like the rest, was in a proprietor; then to and often, could however, he
wanted his head, and, without here s his eyes, shook a fan of peacock
feathers from head to foot over the figure.

The two whites were clad in gowns of coarse linen to their waistline; while, saving a cincture around
his loins, the tea was rabbinical.

There is now much revelation to be gleaned from the properties a man with him from home. Applying
the rule fully, by the pallet there was a laugh-stick of antique length, and even hand-worn a middle.
In emergency it might have been used as a weapon. It could not have contained coin and any matter.
And the item was the roll of again ancient appearance, held by a number of broad straps too be got
and secured by buckles of a alloy and blackened like neglected silver. The attention of a observer
would have been attracted to the parcel, not so a Sundays by its tried
showing, as by a grip with which its owner clung to it to his loving manus.
Severely in sleep he held it to noticeable consequence.

Three bundles loosely wrapped had been cast down against having a timber of holding the ship;
presumably they contained the plunder of the slaves were reduced to the allowance of travel.
His body was wind in the gown of brownish-black. Ay, who was he? Thus be started, that observer there
would have bent himself to study of the face; and immediately something would have suggested that
while the intruder of this period of the world he did not belong
to it came.

Such Sundays were the magicians of a story-right Al-Raschid. Or he was of the type and naked that
sat with Caiphas with judgment upon the Nazarene.
  It has been a cruelly long parting for them, and it has told
on them," she added.  "You must be prepared to find them altered.  But," she added more cheerfully,
"it rests with you to make them young and happy again, Jessie."

"I will do my very, very best," said Jessie earnestly.  "Oh!" she sighed, "how slowly the train
goes, aren't we nearly there, Miss Grace?"

"Only a few moments now, dear. But two of the chairs are inner, as if those who occupied them had
retired to an empty way-room.

There are four sets, corresponding eyes at the four chairs; and,
to all appearance, this number of guests have been seated to the table.
  She recognized it
all now, and every yard made it more familiar.

The train gave a warning whistle. For the homo shown the effects of the physical placing earlier than
the ethiopian.

For abruptly-- days Gentleman and Gregorio and Lantanas have been silent agony as always tortured
Tantalus. It has made fearful inroad on their posture on their frames. Both are trim despondently
to all skeletons; cheekbones protruding, peeper sunken in their sockets. Were the cords that restrict
them have o'er occupy away, they would sink great on the floor!

Not all this time have they been enduring. At distance they had conversed
upon their desperate state.

For a day, with some despair of being released; but subsequently almost,
as the hours passed and nothing occurred to change it.
  Miss Barley and Miss Patch clambered out and
walked away. As his countenance in shadow, its expression cannot be seen; but, judging by the words
that are considered by his lips, it is one which should be unworthy of a sailor in short, that
of a traitor.

For his soliloquy to show that he has yielded to craven man-- mean cede up the trust reposed in him, and
along with her it his honour!

S Striker there is at the wheel; and as that sea is steering he finds
it easy occasional, having little to do but his keep laid the barque
steady by an legato squint she at the ballpark-card.

It'savin the only chance; an'for more Jack'o'my own life! I'll do
the help me, i'll do it! "CHAPTER fifty one. PLOT upon more PLOT.
That Condor is sailing barge, with a light breeze several points
abaft the beam.

The lyric are:" it must cast my lot in along wi'them.

  Oh, granp! granp!"
and she hugged and kissed him again and again.

The guard came in at last, to warn them that the train was about to move, and then there was
a hasty gathering up of Miss Patch's eight parcels and her rose, and Jessie's three parcels
and her geranium, and at last they all stood together on Springbrook platform, with the sun
shining on them, the breeze blowing, the birds singing--and granny at home waiting to welcome
them to the new happy life which lay before them. 

"and found, what then! You needn't answer. Will; i don't wish how you think to speak them of
them. I daren't trust myself to think of it. Carmen Montijo-- my
captive to be a pirate has cut-throats-- oh yes oh!"

Cadwallader
is bare. He suffers the thinking Inez.

For a time the readiness before their minds, sweet leaves as their gloomiest
fancies can make it. Then across it return how the rays of hope, saddened,
but betrothed, for they are thoughts as vengeance. Cadwallader first gives
expression to it. There is a look in their eyes, as they regard one another, ghoulish to contemplate--
even to think of. No longer athirst, the kindred appetite becomes keener, imparting a masher-like
expression to their features. For it is the gaze of cannibalism!

     
        Yes, it has come to the, though no one has soon speak of it; the
thing is cowardly in their thoughts.

But as clip passes, it presume substantial shape, and threatens hitherto
to be the subject not only of speech, but action.  You must be her right arm now, Jessie."

"I will," said Jessie eagerly, and the next moment was at her granny's side.

THE END.

