Poor Caneback;--and poor Lord Rufford! The Major was quite certain that it was all over with
himself. He had broken so many of his bones and had his head so often cracked that he understood
his own anatomy pretty well. There he lay quiet and composed, sipping small modicums of brandy
and water, and taking his outlook into such transtygian world as he had fashioned for himself
in his dull imagination. If he had misgivings he showed them to no bystander. If he thought
then that he might have done better with his energies than devote them to dangerous horses,
he never said so. His voice was weak, but it never quailed; and the only regret he expressed
was that he had not changed the bit in Jemima's mouth. Lord Rufford's position was made worse
by an expression from Sir John Purefoy that the party ought to be put off. Sir John was in
a measure responsible for what his mare had done, and was in a wretched state. "If it could
possibly affect the poor fellow I would do it," said Lord Rufford; "but it would create very
great inconvenience and disappointment. I have to think of other people." "Then I shall send
my wife home," said Sir John. And Lady Purefoy was sent home. Sir John himself of course could
not leave the house while the man was alive. Before they all sat down to dinner the Major was
declared to be a little stronger. That settled the question and the ball was not put off.

The ladies came down to dinner in a melancholy guise. They were not fully dressed for the evening
and were of course inclined to be silent and sad. Before Lord Rufford came in Arabella managed
to get herself on to the sofa next to Lady Penwether, and then to undergo some little hysterical
manifestation, "Oh Lady Penwether; if you had seen it;--and heard it!"

"I am very glad that I was spared anything so horrible."

"And the man's face as he passed me going to the leap! It will haunt me to my dying day!" Then
she shivered, and gurgled in her throat, and turning suddenly round, hid her face on the elbow
of the couch.

"I've been afraid all the afternoon that she would be ill," whispered Lady Augustus to Miss
Penge. "She is so susceptible!"

When Lord Rufford came into the room Arabella at once got up and accosted him with a whisper.
Either he took her or she took him into a distant part of the room where they conversed apart
for five minutes. And he, as he told her how things were going and what was being done, bent
over her and whispered also. "What good would it do, you know?" she said with affected intimacy
as he spoke of his difficulty about the ball. "One would do anything if one could be of service,--but
that would do nothing." She felt completely that her presence at the accident had given her
a right to have peculiar conversations and to be consulted about everything. Of course she
was very sorry for Major Caneback. But as it had been ordained that Major Caneback was to have
his head split in two by a kick from a horse, and that Lord Rufford was to be there to see
it, how great had been the blessing which had brought her to the spot at the same time!

Everybody there saw the intimacy and most of them understood the way in which it was being
used. "That girl is very clever, Rufford," his sister whispered to him before dinner. "She
is very much excited rather than clever just at present," he answered;-- upon which Lady Penwether
shook her head. Miss Penge whispered to Miss Godolphin that Miss Trefoil was making the most
of it; and Mr. Morton, who had come into the room while the conversation apart was going on,
had certainly been of the same opinion.

She had seated herself in an arm-chair away from the others after that conversation was over,
and as she sat there Morton came up to her. He had been so little intimate with the members
of the party assembled and had found himself so much alone, that he had only lately heard the
story about Major Caneback, and had now only heard it imperfectly. But he did see that an absolute
intimacy had been effected where two days before there had only been a slight acquaintance;
and he believed that this sudden rush had been in some way due to the accident of which he
had been told. "You know what has happened?" he said.

"Oh, Mr. Morton; do not talk to me about it."

"Were you not speaking of it to Lord Rufford?"

"Of course I was. We were together."

"Did you see it?" Then she shuddered, put her handkerchief up to her eyes, and turned her face
away. "And yet the ball is to go on?" he asked.

"Pray, pray, do not dwell on it,--unless you wish to force me back to my room. When I left
it I felt that I was attempting to do too much." This might have been all very well had she
not been so manifestly able to talk to Lord Rufford on the same subject. If there is any young
man to whom a girl should be able to speak when she is in a state of violent emotion, it is
the young man to whom she is engaged. So at least thought Mr. John Morton.

Then dinner was announced, and the dinner certainly was sombre enough. A dinner before a ball
in the country never is very much of a dinner. The ladies know that there is work before them,
and keep themselves for the greater occasion. Lady Purefoy had gone, and Lady Penwether was
not very happy in the prospects for the evening. Neither Miss Penge nor either of the two Miss
Godolphins had entertained personal hopes in regard to Lord Rufford, but nevertheless they
took badly the great favour shown to Arabella. Lady Augustus did not get on particularly well
with any of the other ladies,--and there seemed during the dinner to be an air of unhappiness
over them all. They retired as soon as it was possible, and then Arabella at once went up to
her bedroom.

"Mr. Nokes says he is a little stronger, my Lord," said the butler coming into the room. Mr.
Nokes had gone home and had returned again.

"He might pull through yet," said Mr. Hampton. Lord Rufford shook his head. Then Mr. Gotobed
told a wonderful story of an American who had had his brains knocked almost out of his head
and had sat in Congress afterwards. "He was the finest horseman I ever saw on a horse," said
Hampton.

"A little too much temper," said Captain Battersby, who was a very old friend of the Major.

"I'd give a good deal that that mare had never been brought to my stables," said Lord Rufford.
"Purefoy will never get over it, and I shan't forget it in a hurry." Sir John at this time
was up-stairs with the sufferer. Even while drinking their wine they could not keep themselves
from the subject, and were convivial in a cadaverous fashion.

CHAPTER XXIV

The Ball

The people came of course, but not in such numbers as had been expected. Many of those in Rufford
had heard of the accident, and having been made acquainted with Nokes's report, stayed away.
Everybody was told that supper would be on the table at twelve, and that it was generally understood
that the house was to be cleared by two. Nokes seemed to think that the sufferer would live
at least till the morrow, and it was ascertained to a certainty that the music could not affect
him. It was agreed among the party in the house that the ladies staying there should stand
up for the first dance or two, as otherwise the strangers would be discouraged and the whole
thing would be a failure. This request was made by Lady Penwether because Miss Penge had said
that she thought it impossible for her to dance. Poor Miss Penge, who was generally regarded
as a brilliant young woman, had been a good deal eclipsed by Arabella and had seen the necessity
of striking out some line for herself. Then Arabella had whispered a few words to Lord Rufford,
and the lord had whispered a few words to his sister, and Lady Penwether had explained what
was to be done to the ladies around. Lady Augustus nodded her head and said that it was all
right. The other ladies of course agreed, and partners were selected within the house party.
Lord Rufford stood up with Arabella and John Morton with Lady Penwether. Mr. Gotobed selected
Miss Penge, and Hampton and Battersby the two Miss Godolphins. They all took their places with
a lugubrious but business-like air, as aware that they were sacrificing themselves in the performance
of a sad duty. But Morton was not allowed to dance in the same quadrille with the lady of his
affections. Lady Penwether explained to him that she and her brother had better divide themselves,--for
the good of the company generally,--and therefore he and Arabella were also divided.

A rumour had reached Lady Penwether of the truth in regard to their guests from Bragton. Mr.
Gotobed had whispered to her that he had understood that they certainly were engaged; and,
even before that, the names of the two lovers had been wafted to her ears from the other side
of the Atlantic. Both John Morton and Lady Augustus were "somebodies," and Lady Penwether generally
knew what there was to be known of anybody who was anybody. But it was quite clear to her,--more
so even than to poor John Morton, that the lady was conducting herself now as though she were
fettered by no bonds, and it seemed to Lady Penwether also that the lady was very anxious to
contract other bonds. She knew her brother well. He was always in love with somebody; but as
he had hitherto failed of success where marriage was desirable, so had he avoided disaster
when it was not. He was one of those men who are generally supposed to be averse to matrimony.
Lady Penwether and some other relatives were anxious that he should take a wife;--but his sister
was by no means anxious that he should take such a one as Arabella Trefoil. Therefore she thought
that she might judiciously ask Mr. Morton a few questions. "I believe you knew the Trefoils
in Washington?" she said. Morton acknowledged that he had seen much of them there. "She is
very handsome certainly."

"I think so."

"And rides well I suppose."

"I don't know. I never heard much of her riding."

"Has she been staying long at Bragton?" "Just a week."

"Do you know Lord Augustus?" Morton said that he did not know Lord Augustus and then answered
sundry other questions of the same nature in the same uncommunicative way. Though he had once
or twice almost fancied that he would like to proclaim aloud that the girl was engaged to him,
yet he did not like to have the fact pumped out of him. And if she were such a girl as she
now appeared to be, might it not be better for him to let her go? Surely her conduct here at
Rufford Hall was opportunity enough. No doubt she was handsome. No doubt he loved her,--after
his fashion of loving. But to lose her now would not break his heart, whereas to lose her after
he was married to her, would, he knew well, bring him to the very ground. He would ask her
a question or two this very night, and then come to some resolution. With such thoughts as
these crossing his mind he certainly was not going to proclaim his engagement to Lady Penwether.
But Lady Penwether was a determined woman. Her smile, when she condescended to smile, was very
sweet,-- lighting up her whole face and flattering for the moment the person on whom it shone.
It was as though a rose in emitting its perfume could confine itself to the nostrils of its
one favoured friend. And now she smiled on Morton as she asked another question. "I did hear,"
she said, "from one of your Foreign Office young men that you and Miss Trefoil were very intimate."

"Who was that, Lady Penwether?"

"Of course I shall mention no name. You might call out the poor lad and shoot him, or, worse
still, have him put down to the bottom of his class. But I did hear it. And then, when I find
her staying with her mother at your house, of course I believe it to be true."

"Now she is staying at your brother's house,--which is much the same thing."

"But I am here."

"And my grandmother is at Bragton."

"That puts me in mind, Mr. Morton. I am so sorry that we did not know it, so that we might
have asked her."

"She never goes out anywhere, Lady Penwether."

"And there is nothing then in the report that I heard?"

Morton paused a moment before he answered, and during that moment collected his diplomatic
resources. He was not a weak man, who could be made to tell anything by the wiles of a pretty
woman. "I think," he said, "that when people have anything of that kind which they wish to
be known, they declare it."

"I beg your pardon. I did not mean to unravel a secret."

"There are secrets, Lady Penwether, which people do like to unravel, but which the owners of
them sometimes won't abandon." Then there was nothing more said on the subject. Lady Penwether
did not smile again, and left him to go about the room on her business as hostess, as soon
as the dance was over. But she was sure that they were engaged.

In the meantime, the conversation between Lord Rufford and Arabella was very different in its
tone, though on the same subject. He was certainly very much struck with her, not probably
ever waiting to declare to himself that she was the most beautiful woman he had ever seen in
his life, but still feeling towards her an attraction which for the time was strong. A very
clever girl would frighten him; a very horsey girl would disgust him; a very quiet girl would
bore him; or a very noisy girl annoy him. With a shy girl he could never be at his ease, not
enjoying the labour of overcoming such a barrier; and yet he liked to be able to feel that
any female intimacy which he admitted was due to his own choice and not to that of the young
woman. Arabella Trefoil was not very clever, but she had given all her mind to this peculiar
phase of life, and, to use a common phrase, knew what she was about. She was quite alive to
the fact that different men require different manners in a young woman; and as she had adapted
herself to Mr. Morton at Washington, so could she at Rufford adapt herself to Lord Rufford.
At the present moment the lord was in love with her as much as he was wont to be in love. "Doesn't
it seem an immense time since we came here yesterday?" she said to him. "There has been so
much done"

"There has been a great misfortune."

"I suppose that is it. Only for that how very very pleasant it would have been!"

"Yes, indeed. It was a nice run, and that little horse carried you charmingly. I wish I could
see you ride him again" She shook her head as she looked up into his face. "Why do you shake
your head?"

"Because I am afraid there is no possible chance of such happiness. We are going to such a
dull house to-morrow! And then to so many dull houses afterwards."

"I don't know why you shouldn't come back and have another day or two;--when all this sadness
has gone by."

"Don't talk about it, Lord Rufford."

"Why not?"

"I never like to talk about any pleasure because it always vanishes as soon as it has come;--and
when it has been real pleasure it never comes back again. I don't think I ever enjoyed anything
so much as our ride this morning, till that tragedy came."

"Poor Caneback!"

"I suppose there is no hope?" He shook his head. "And we must go on to those Gores to-morrow
without knowing anything about it. I wonder whether you could send me a line."

"Of course I can, and I will." Then he asked her a question looking into her face. "You are
not going back to Bragton?"

"Oh dear, no."

"Was Bragton dull?"

"Awfully dull; frightfully dull."

"You know what they say?"

"What who say, Lord Rufford? People say anything,--the more ill-natured the better they like
it, I think."

"Have you not heard what they say about you and Mr. Morton?"

"Just because mamma made a promise when in Washington to go to Bragton with that Mr. Gotobed.
Don't you find they marry you to everybody?"

"They have married me to a good many people. Perhaps they'll marry me to you to-morrow. That
would not be so bad."

"Oh, Lord Rufford! Nobody has ever condemned you to anything so terrible as that."

"There was no truth in it then, Miss Trefoil?"

"None at all, Lord Rufford. Only I don't know why you should ask me."

"Well; I don't know. A man likes sometimes to be sure how the land lies. Mr. Morton looks so
cross that I thought that perhaps the very fact of my dancing with you might be an offence."

"Is he cross?"

"You know him better than I do. Perhaps it's his nature. Now I must do one other dance with
a native and then my work will be over."

"That isn't very civil, Lord Rufford."

"If you do not know what I meant, you're not the girl I take you to be." Then as she walked
with him back out of the ball-room into the drawing-room she assured him that she did know
what he meant, and that therefore she was the girl he took her to be.

She had determined that she would not dance again and had resolved to herd with the other ladies
of the house,--waiting for any opportunity that chance might give her for having a last word
with Lord Rufford before they parted for the night,--when Morton came up to her and demanded
rather than asked that she would stand up with him for a quadrille. "We settled it all among
ourselves, you know," she said. "We were to dance only once, just to set the people off." He
still persisted, but she still refused, alleging that she was bound by the general compact;
and though he was very urgent she would not yield. "I wonder how you can ask me," she said.
"You don't suppose that after what has occurred I can have any pleasure in dancing." Upon this
he asked her to take a turn with him through the rooms, and to that she found herself compelled
to assent. Then he spoke out to her. "Arabella," he said, "I am not quite content with what
has been going on since we came to this house."

"I am sorry for that."

"Nor, indeed, have I been made very happy by all that has occurred since your mother and you
did me the honour of coming to Bragton."

"I must acknowledge you haven't seemed to be very happy, Mr. Morton."

"I don't want to distress you;--and as far as possible I wish to avoid distressing myself.
If it is your wish that our engagement should be over, I will endeavour to bear it. If it is
to be continued, I expect that your manner to me should be altered"

"What am I to say?"

"Say what you feel."

"I feel that I can't alter my manner, as you call it."

"You do wish the engagement to be over then?"

"I did not say so. The truth is, Mr. Morton, that there is some trouble about the lawyers."

"Why do you always call me Mr. Morton?"

"Because I am aware how probable it is that all this may come to nothing. I can't walk out
of the house and marry you as the cook maid does the gardener. I've got to wait till I'm told
that everything is settled; and at present I'm told that things are not settled because you
won't agree."

"I'll leave it to anybody to say whether I've been unreasonable."

"I won't go into that. I haven't meddled with it, and I don't know anything about it. But until
it is all settled as a matter of course there must be some little distance between us. It's
the commonest thing in the world, I should say."

"What is to be the end of it?"

"I do not know. If you think yourself injured you can back out of it at once. I've nothing
more to say about it."

"And you think I can like the way you're going on here?"

"If you're jealous, Mr. Morton, there's an end of it. I tell you fairly once for all, that
as long as I'm a single woman I will regulate my conduct as I please. You can do the same,
and I shall not say a word to you." Then she withdrew her arm from him, and, leaving him, walked
across the room and joined her mother. He went off at once to his own room resolving that he
would write to her from Bragton. He had made his propositions in regard to money which he was
quite aware were as liberal as was fit. If she would now fix a day for their marriage, he would
be a happy man. If she would not bring herself to do this, then he would have no alternative
but to regard their engagement as at an end.

At two o'clock the guests were nearly all gone. The Major was alive, and likely to live at
least for some hours, and the Rufford people generally were glad that they had not put off
the ball. Some of them who were staying in the house had already gone to bed, and Lady Penwether,
with Miss Penge at her side, was making her last adieux in the drawing-room. The ball-room
was reached from the drawing-room, with a vestibule between them, and opening from this was
a small chamber, prettily furnished but seldom used, which had no peculiar purpose of its own,
but in which during the present evening many sweet words had probably been spoken. Now, at
this last moment, Lord Rufford and Arabella Trefoil were there alone together. She had just
got up from a sofa, and he had taken her hand in his. She did not attempt to withdraw it, but
stood looking down upon the ground. Then he passed his arm round her waist and lifting her
face to his held her in a close embrace from which she made no effort to free herself. As soon
as she was released she hastened to the door which was all but closed, and as she opened it
and passed through to the drawing-room said some ordinary word to him quite aloud in her ordinary
voice. If his action had disturbed her she knew very well how to recover her equanimity.

CHAPTER XXV

The last Morning at Rufford Hall

"Well, my love?" said Lady Augustus, as soon as her daughter had joined her in her bedroom.
On such occasions there was always a quarter of an hour before going to bed in which the mother
and daughter discussed their affairs, while the two lady's maids were discussing their affairs
in the other room. The two maids probably did not often quarrel, but the mother and daughter
usually did.

"I wish that stupid man hadn't got himself hurt."

"Of course, my dear; we all wish that. But I really don't see that it has stood much in your way.

"Yes it has. After all there is nothing like dancing, and we shouldn't all have been sent to
bed at two o'clock."

"Then it has come to nothing?"

"I didn't say that at all, mamma. I think I have done uncommonly well. Indeed I know I have.
But then if everything had not been upset, I might have done so much better."

"What have you done?" asked Lady Augustus, timidly. She knew perfectly well that her daughter
would tell her nothing, and yet she always asked these questions and was always angry when
no information was given to her. Any young woman would have found it very hard to give the
information needed. "When we were alone he sat for five minutes with his arm round my waist,
and then he kissed me. He didn't say much, but then I knew perfectly well that he would be
on his guard not to commit himself by words. But I've got him to promise that he'll write to
me, and of course I'll answer in such a way that he must write again. I know he'll want to
see me, and I think I can go very near doing it. But he's an old stager and knows what he's
about: and of course there'll be ever so many people to tell him I'm not the sort of girl he
ought to marry. He'll hear about Colonel de B--, and Sir C. D--, and Lord E. F--, and there
are ever so many chances against me. But I've made up my mind to try it. It's taking the long
odds. I can hardly expect to win, but if I do pull it off I'm made for ever!" A daughter can
hardly say all that to her mother. Even Arabella Trefoil could not say it to her mother,--or,
at any rate, she would not. "What a question that is to ask, mamma?" she did say tossing her head.

"Well, my dear, unless you tell me something how can I help you?"

"I don't know that I want you to help me,--at any rate not in that way."

"In what way?"

"Oh, mamma, you are so odd."

"Has he said anything?"

"Yes, he has. He said he liked dry champagne and that he never ate supper."

"If you won't tell me how things are going you may fight your own battles by yourself."

"That's just what I must do. Nobody else can fight my battles for me."

"What are you going to do about Mr. Morton?"

"Nothing."

"I saw him talking to you and looking as black as thunder."

"He always looks as black as thunder."

"Is that to be all off? I insist upon having an answer to that question."

"I believe you fancy, mamma, that a lot of men can be played like a parcel of chessmen, and
that as soon as a knight is knocked on the head you can take him up and put him into the box
and have done with him."

"You haven't done with Mr. Morton then?"

"Poor Mr. Morton! I do feel he is badly used because he is so honest. I sometimes wish that
I could afford to be honest too and to tell somebody the downright truth. I should like to
tell him the truth and I almost think I will. `My dear fellow, I did for a time think I couldn't
do better, and I'm not at all sure now that I can. But then you are so very dull, and I'm not
certain that I should care to be Queen of the English society at the Court of the Emperor of
Morocco! But if you'll wait for another six months, I shall be able to tell you.' That's what
I should have to say to him."

"Who is talking nonsense now, Arabella?"

"I am not. But I shan't say it. And now, mamma, I'll tell you what we must do."

"You must tell me why also?"

"I can do nothing of the kind. He knows the Duke." The Duke with the Trefoils always meant
the Duke of Mayfair who was Arabella's ducal uncle.

"Intimately?"

"Well enough to go there. There is to be a great shooting at Mistletoe,"--Mistletoe was the
Duke's place,--"in January. I got that from him, and he can go if he likes. He won't go as
it is: but if I tell him I'm to be there, I think he will."

"What did you tell him?"

"Well;--I told him a tarradiddle of course. I made him understand that I could be there if
I pleased, and he thinks that I mean to be there if he goes."

"But I'm sure the Duchess won't have me again."

"She might let me come."

"And what am I to do?"

"You could go to Brighton with Miss De Groat;--or what does it matter for a fortnight? You'll
get the advantage when it's done. It's as well to have the truth out at once, mamma,--I cannot
carry on if I'm always to be stuck close to your apron-strings. There are so many people won't
have you."

"Arabella, I do think you are the most ungrateful, hard-hearted creature that ever lived."

"Very well; I don't know what I have to be grateful about, and I need to be hard-hearted. Of
course I am hard-hearted. The thing will be to get papa to see his brother."

"Your papa!"

"Yes; that's what I mean to try. The Duke of course would like me to marry Lord Rufford. Do
you think that if I were at home here it wouldn't make Mistletoe a very different sort of place
for you? The Duke does like papa in a sort of way, and he's civil enough to me when I'm there.
He never did like you."

"Everybody is so fond of you! It was what you did when young Stranorlar was there which made
the Duchess almost turn us out of the house."

"What's the good of your saying that, mamma? If you go on like that I'll separate myself from
you and throw myself on papa."

"Your father wouldn't lift his little finger for you."

"I'll try at any rate. Will you consent to my going there without you if I can manage it?"

"What did Lord Rufford say?" Arabella here made a grimace. "You can tell me something. What
are the lawyers to say to Mr. Morton's people?"

"Whatever they like."

"If they come to arrangements do you mean to marry him?"

"Not for the next two months certainly. I shan't see him again now heaven knows when. He'll
write no doubt,--one of his awfully sensible letters, and I shall take my time about answering
him. I can stretch it out for two months. If I'm to do any good with this man it will be all
arranged before that time. If the Duke could really be made to believe that Lord Rufford was
in earnest I'm sure he'd have me there. As to her, she always does what he tells her."

"He is going to write to you?"

"I told you that before, mamma. What is the good of asking a lot of questions? You know now
what my plan is, and if you won't help me I must carry it out alone. And, remember, I don't
want to start to-morrow till after Morton and that American have gone." Then without a kiss
or wishing her mother good night she went off to her own room.

The next morning at about nine Arabella heard from her maid that the Major was still alive
but senseless. The London surgeon had been there and had declared it to be possible that the
patient should live, but barely possible. At ten they were all at breakfast, and the carriage
from Bragton was already at the door to take back Mr. Morton and his American friend. Lady
Augustus had been clever enough to arrange that she should have the phaeton to take her to
the Rufford Station a little later on in the day, and had already hinted to one of the servants
that perhaps a cart might be sent with the luggage. The cart was forthcoming. Lady Augustus
was very clever in arranging her locomotion and seldom paid for much more than her railway tickets.

"I had meant to say a few words to you, my lord, about that man Goarly," said the Senator,
standing. before the fire in the breakfast-room, "but this sad catastrophe has stopped me."

"There isn't much to say about him, Mr. Gotobed."

"Perhaps not; only I would not wish you to think that I would oppose you without some cause.
If the man is in the wrong according to law let him be proved to be so. The cost to you will
be nothing. To him it might be of considerable importance."

"Just so. Won't you sit down and have some breakfast. If Goarly ever makes himself nuisance
enough it may be worth my while to buy him out at three times the value of his land. But he'll
have to be a very great nuisance before I shall do that. Dillsborough wood is not the only
fox covert in the county." After that there was no more said about it; but neither did Lord
Rufford understand the Senator nor did the Senator understand Lord Rufford. John Runce had
a clearer conviction on his mind than either of them. Goarly ought to be hanged, and no American
should under any circumstances be allowed to put his foot upon British soil. That was Runce's
idea of the matter.

The parting between Morton and the Trefoils was very chill and uncomfortable. "Good-bye, Mr.
Morton;--we had such a pleasant time at Bragton!" said Lady Augustus. "I shall write to you
this afternoon," he whispered to Arabella as he took her hand. She smiled and murmured a word
of adieu, but made him no reply. Then they were gone, and as he got into the carriage he told
himself that in all probability he would never see her again. It might be that he would curtail
his leave of absence and get back to Washington as quickly as possible.

The Trefoils did not start for an hour after this, during which Arabella could hardly find
an opportunity for a word in private. She could not quite appeal to him to walk with her in
the grounds, or even to take a turn with her round the empty ballroom. She came down dressed
for walking, thinking that so she might have the best chance of getting him for a quarter of
an hour to herself, but he was either too wary or else the habits of his life prevented it.
And in what she had to do it was so easy to go beyond the proper line! She would wish him to
understand that she would like to be alone with him after what had passed between them on the
previous evening, but she must be careful not to let him imagine that she was too anxious.
And then whatever she did she had to do with so many eyes upon her! And when she went, as she
would do now in so short a time, so many hostile tongues would attack her! He had everything
to protect him; and she had nothing, absolutely nothing, to help her! It was thus that she
looked at it; and yet she had courage for the battle. Almost at the last moment she did get
a word with him in the hall. "How is he?"

"Oh, better, decidedly."

"I am so glad. If I could only think that he could live! Well, my Lord, we have to say good-bye."

"I suppose so."

"You'll write me a line,--about him."

"Certainly."

"I shall be so glad to have a line from Rufford. Maddox Hall, you know; Stafford."

"I will remember."

"And dear old Jack. Tell me when you write what Jack has been doing." Then she put out her
hand and he held it. "I wonder whether you will ever remember--" But she did not quite know
what to bid him remember, and therefore turned away her face and wiped away a tear, and then
smiled as she turned her back on him. The carriage was at the door, and the ladies flocked
into the hall, and then not another word could be said.

"That's what I call a really nice country house," said Lady Augustus as she was driven away.
Arabella sat back in the phaeton lost in thought and said nothing. "Everything so well done,
and yet none of all that fuss that there is at Mistletoe." She paused but still her daughter
did not speak. "If I were beginning the world again I would not wish for a better establishment
than that. Why can't you answer me a word when I speak to you?"

"Of course it's all very nice. What's the good of going on in that way? What a shame it is
that a man like that should have so much and that a girl like me should have nothing at all.
I know twice as much as he does, and am twice as clever, and yet I've got to treat him as though
he were a god. He's all very well, but what would anybody think of him if he were a younger
brother with 300 pounds a year." This was a kind of philosophy which Lady Angustus hated. She
threw herself back therefore in the phaeton and pretended to go to sleep.

The wheels were not out of sight of the house before the attack on the Trefoils began. "I had
heard of Lady Augustus before," said Lady Penwether, "but I didn't think that any woman could
be so disagreeable."

"So vulgar," said Miss Penge.

"Wasn't she the daughter of an ironmonger?" asked the elder Miss Godolphin.

"The girl of course is handsome," said Lady Penwether.

"But so self-sufficient," said Miss Godolphin.

"And almost as vulgar as her mother," said Miss Penge.

"She may be clever," said Lady Penwether, "but I do not think I should ever like her."

"She is one of those girls whom only gentlemen like," said Miss Penge.

"And whom they don't like very long," said Lady Penwether.

"How well I understand all this," said Lord Rufford turning to the younger Miss Godolphin.
"It is all said for my benefit, and considered to be necessary because I danced with the young
lady last night."

"I hope you are not attributing such a motive to me," said Miss Penge.

"Or to me," said Miss Godolphin.

"I look on both of you and Eleanor as all one on the present occasion. I am considered to be
falling over a precipice, and she has got hold of my coat tails. Of course you wouldn't be
Christians if you didn't both of you seize a foot"

"Looking at it in that light I certainly wish to be understood as holding on very fast," said
Miss Penge.

CHAPTER XXVI

Give me six Months

There was a great deal of trouble and some very genuine sorrow in the attorney's house at Dillsborough
during the first week in December. Mr. Masters had declared to his wife that Mary should go
to Cheltenham and a letter was written to Lady Ushant accepting the invitation. The twenty
pounds too was forthcoming and the dress and the boots and the hat were bought. But while this
was going on Mrs. Masters took care that there should be no comfort whatever around them and
made every meal a separate curse to the unfortunate lawyer. She told him ten times a day that
she had been a mother to his daughter, but declared that such a position was no longer possible
to her as the girl had been taken altogether out of her hands. To Mary she hardly spoke at
all and made her thoroughly wish that Lady Ushant's kindness had been declined. "Mamma," she
said one day, "I had rather write now and tell her that I cannot come."

"After all the money has been wasted!"

"I have only got things that I must have had very soon."

"If you have got anything to say you had better talk to your father. I know nothing about it"

"You break my heart when you say that, mamma."

"You think nothing about breaking mine;--or that young man's who is behaving so well to you.
What makes me mad is to see you shilly-shallying with him."

"Mamma, I haven't shilly-shallied."

"That's what I call it. Why can't you speak him fair and tell him you'll have him and settle
yourself down properly? You've got some idea into your silly head that what you call a gentleman
will come after you."

"Mamma, that isn't fair."

"Very well, miss. As your father takes your part of course you can say what you please to me.
I say it is so." Mary knew very well what her another meant and was safe at least from any
allusion to Reginald Morton. There was an idea prevalent in the house, and not without some
cause, that Mr. Surtees the curate had looked with an eye of favour on Mary Masters. Mr. Surtees
was certainly a gentleman, but his income was strictly limited to the sum of 120 pounds per
annum which he received from Mr. Mainwaring. Now Mrs. Masters disliked clergymen, disliked
gentlemen, and especially disliked poverty; and therefore was not disposed to look upon Mr.
Surtees as an eligible suitor for her stepdaughter. But as the curate's courtship had hitherto
been of the coldest kind and as it had received no encouragement from the young lady, Mary
was certainly justified in declaring that the allusion was not fair. "What I want to know is
this;--are you prepared to marry Lawrence Twentyman?" To this question, as Mary could not give
a favourable answer, she thought it best to make none at all. "There is a man as has got a
house fit for any woman, and means to keep it; who can give a young woman everything that she
ought to want;--and a handsome fellow too, with some life in him; one who really dotes on you,--as
men don't often do on young women now as far as I can see. I wonder what it is you would have?"

"I want nothing, mamma."

"Yes you do. You have been reading books of poetry till you don't know what it is you do want.
You've got your head full of claptraps and tantrums till you haven't a grain of sense belonging
to you. I hate such ways. It's a spurning of the gifts of Providence not to have such a man
as Lawrence Twentyman when he comes in your way. Who are you, I wonder, that you shouldn't
be contented with such as him? He'll go and take some one else and then you'll be fit to break
your heart, fretting after him, and I shan't pity you a bit. It'll serve you right and you'll
die an old maid, and what there will be for you to live upon God in heaven only knows. You're
breaking your father's heart, as it is." Then she sat down in a rocking-chair and throwing
her apron over her eyes gave herself up to a deluge of hysterical tears.

This was very hard upon Mary for though she did not believe all the horrible things which her
stepmother said to her she did believe some of them. She was not afraid of the fate of an old
maid which was threatened, but she did think that her marriage with this man would be for the
benefit of the family and a great relief to her father. And she knew too that he was respectable,
and believed him to be thoroughly earnest in his love. For such love as that it is impossible
that a girl should not be grateful. There was nothing to allure him, nothing to tempt him to
such a marriage, but a simple appreciation of her personal merits. And in life he was at any
rate her equal. She had told Reginald Morton that Larry Twentyman was a fit companion for her
and for her sisters, and she owned as much to herself every day. When she acknowledged all
this she was tempted to ask herself whether she ought not to accept the man, if not for her
own sake at least for that of the family.

That same evening her father called her into the office after the clerks were gone and spoke
to her thus. "Your mamma is very unhappy, my dear," he said.

"I'm afraid I have made everybody unhappy by wanting to go to Cheltenham."

"It is not only that. That is reasonable enough and you ought to go. Mamma would say nothing
more about that,--if you would make up your mind to one thing."

"What thing, papa?" Of course she knew very well what the thing was.

"It is time for you to think of settling in life, Mary. I never would put it into a girl's
head that she ought to worry herself about getting a husband unless the opportunity seemed
to come in her way. Young women should be quiet and wait till they're sought after. But here
is a young man seeking you whom we all like and approve. A good house is a very good thing
when it's fairly come by."

"Yes, papa."

"And so is a full house. A girl shouldn't run after money, but plenty is a great comfort in
this world when it can be had without blushing for."

"Yes, papa."

"And so is an honest man's love. I don't like to see any girl wearying after some fellow to
be always fal-lalling with her. A good girl will be able to be happy and contented without
that. But a lone life is a poor life, and a good husband is about the best blessing that a
young woman can have." To this proposition Mary perhaps agreed in her own mind but she gave
no spoken assent. "Now this young man that is wanting to marry you has got all these things,
and as far as I can judge with my experience in the world, is as likely to make a good husband
as any one I know." He paused for an answer but Mary could only lean close upon his arm and
be silent. "Have you anything to say about it, my dear? You see it has been going on now a
long time, and of course he'll look to have it decided." But still she could say nothing. "Well,
now;--he has been with me to-day."

"Mr. Twentyman?"

"Yes,---Mr. Twentyman. He knows you're going to Cheltenham and of course he has nothing to
say against that. No young man such as he would be sorry that his sweetheart should be entertained
by such a lady as Lady Ushant. But he says that he wants to have an answer before you go."

"I did answer him, papa."

"Yes,--you refused him. But he hopes that perhaps you may think better of it. He has been with
me and I have told him that if he will come to-morrow you will see him. He is to be here after
dinner and you had better just take him up-stairs and hear what he has to say. If you can make
up your mind to like him you will please all your family. But if you can't, I won't quarrel
with you, my dear."

"Oh papa, you are always so good."

"Of course I am anxious that you should have a home of your own;-- but let it be how it may
I will not quarrel with my child."

All that evening, and almost all the night, and again on the following morning Mary turned
it over in her mind. She was quite sure that she was not in love with Larry Twentyman; but
she was by no means sure that it might not be her duty to accept him without being in love
with him. Of course he must know the whole truth; but she could tell him the truth and then
leave it for him to decide. What right had she to stand in the way of her friends, or to be
a burden to them when such a mode of life was offered to her? She had nothing of her own, and
regarded herself as being a dead weight on the family. And she was conscious in a certain degree
of isolation in the household,--as being her father's only child by the first marriage. She
would hardly know how to look her father in the face and tell him that she had again refused
the man. But yet there was something awful to her in the idea of giving herself to a man without
loving him,--in becoming a man's wife when she would fain remain away from him! Would it be
possible that she should live with him while her feelings were of such a nature? And then she
blushed as she lay in the dark, with her cheek on her pillow, when she found herself forced
to inquire within her own heart whether she did not love some one else. She would not own it,
and yet she blushed, and yet she thought of it. If there might be such a man it was not the
young clergyman to whom her mother had alluded.

Through all that morning she was very quiet, very pale, and in truth very unhappy. Her father
said no further word to her, and her stepmother had been implored to be equally reticent. "I
shan't speak another word," said Mrs. Masters; "her fortune is in her own hands and if she
don't choose to take it I've done with her. One man may lead a horse to water but a hundred
can't make him drink. It's just the same with an obstinate pig-headed young woman."

At three o'clock Mr. Twentyman came and was at once desired to go up to Mary who was waiting
for him in the drawing-room. Mrs. Masters smiled and was gracious as she spoke to him, having
for the moment wreathed herself in good humour so that he might go to his wooing in better
spirit. He had learned his lesson by heart as nearly as he was able and began to recite it
as soon as he had closed the door. "So you're going to Cheltenham on Thursday?" he said.

"Yes, Mr. Twentyman."

"I hope you'll enjoy your visit there. I remember Lady Ushant myself very well. I don't suppose
she will remember me, but you can give her my compliments."

"I certainly will do that."

"And now, Mary, what have you got to say to me?" He looked for a moment as though he expected
she would say what she had to say at once,--without further question from him; but he knew
that it could not be so and he had prepared his lesson further than that. "I think you must
believe that I really do love you with all my heart."

"I know that you are very good to me, Mr. Twentyman."

"I don't say anything about being good; but I'm true:--that I am. I'd take you for my wife
tomorrow if you hadn't a friend in the world, just for downright love. I've got you so in my
heart, Mary, that I couldn't get rid of you if I tried ever so. You must know that it's true."

"I do know that it's true."

"Well! Don't you think that a fellow like that deserves something from a girl?"

"Indeed I do."

"Well!"

"He deserves a great deal too much for any girl to deceive him. You wouldn't like a young woman
to marry you without loving you. I think you deserve a great deal too well of me for that."

He paused a moment before he replied. "I don't know about that," he said at last. "I believe
I should be glad to take you just anyhow. I don't think you can hate me."

"Certainly not. I like you as well, Mr. Twentyman, as one friend can like another,--without
loving."

"I'll be content with that, Mary, and chance it for the rest. I'll be that kind to you that
I'll make you love me before twelve months are over. You come and try. You shall be mistress
of everything. Mother isn't one that will want to be in the way."

"It isn't that, Larry," she said.

She hadn't called him Larry for a long time and the sound of his own name from her lips gave
him infinite hope. "Come and try. Say you'll try. If ever a man did his best to please a woman
I'll do it to please you." Then he attempted to take her in his arms but she glided away from
him round the table. "I won't ask you not to go to Cheltenham, or anything of that. You shall
have your own time. By George you shall have everything your own way." Still she did not answer
him but stood looking down upon the table. "Come; say a word to a fellow."

Then at last she spoke--"Give me six months to think of it."

"Six months! If you'd say six weeks."

"It is such a serious thing to do."

"It is serious, of course. I'm serious, I know. I shouldn't hunt above half as often as I do
now; and as for the club,--I don't suppose I should go near the place once a month. Say six
weeks, and then, if you'll let me have one kiss, I'll not trouble you till you're back from
Cheltenham."

Mary at once perceived that he had taken her doubt almost as a complete surrender, and had
again to become obdurate. At last she promised to give him a final answer in two months, but
declared as she said so that she was afraid she could not bring herself to do as he desired.
She declined altogether to comply with that other request which he made, and then left him
in the room declaring that at present she could say nothing further. As she did so she felt
sure that she would not be able to accept him in two months' time whatever she might bring
herself to do when the vast abyss of six months should have passed by.

Larry made his way down into the parlour with hopes considerably raised. There he found Mrs.
Masters and when he told her what had passed she assured him that the thing was as good as
settled. Everybody knew, she said, that when a girl doubted she meant to yield. And what were
two months? The time would have nearly gone by the end of her visit to Cheltenham. It was now
early in December, and they might be married and settled at home before the end of April. Mrs.
Masters, to give him courage, took out a bottle of currant wine and drank his health, and told
him that in three months' time she would give him a kiss and call him her son. And she believed
what she said. This, she thought, was merely Mary's way of letting herself down without a sudden
fall.

Then the attorney came in and also congratulated him. When the attorney was told that Mary
had taken two months for her decision he also felt that the matter was almost as good as settled.
This at any rate was clear to him,--that the existing misery of his household would for the
present cease, and that Mary would be allowed to go upon her visit without further opposition.
He at present did not think it wise to say another word to Mary about the young man; nor would
Mrs. Masters condescend to do so. Mary would of course now accept her lover like any other
girl, and had been such a fool,--so thought Mrs. Masters,--that she had thoroughly deserved
to lose him.

CHAPTER XXVII

"Wonderful Bird!"

There were but two days between the scenes described in the last chapter and the day fixed
for Mary's departure, and during these two days Larry Twentyman's name was not mentioned in
the house. Mrs. Masters did not make herself quite pleasant to her stepdaughter, having still
some grudge against her as to the twenty pounds. Nor, though she had submitted to the visit
to Cheltenham, did she approve of it. It wasn't the way, she said, to make such a girl as Mary
like her life at Chowton Farm, going and sitting and doing nothing in old Lady Ushant's drawing-room.
It was cocking her up with gimcrack notions about ladies till she'd be ashamed to look at her
own hands after she had done a day's work with them. There was no doubt some truth in this.
The woman understood the world and was able to measure Larry Twentyman and Lady Ushant and
the rest of them. Books and pretty needlework and easy conversation would consume the time
at Cheltenham, whereas at Chowton Farm there would be a dairy and a poultry yard,--under difficulties
on account of the foxes,--with a prospect of baby linen and children's shoes and stockings.
It was all that question of gentlemen and ladies, and of non-gentlemen and non-ladies! They
ought, Mrs. Masters thought, to be kept distinct. She had never, she said, wanted to put her
finger into a pie that didn't belong to her. She had never tried to be a grand lady. But Mary
was perilously near the brink on either side, and as it was to be her lucky fate at last to
sit down to a plentiful but work-a-day life at Chowton Farm she ought to have been kept away
from the maundering idleness of Lady Ushant's lodgings at Cheltenham. But Mary heard nothing
of this during these two days, Mrs. Masters bestowing the load of her wisdom upon her unfortunate
husband.

Reginald Morton had been twice over at Mrs. Masters' house with reference to the proposed journey.
Mrs. Masters was hardly civil to him, as he was supposed to be among the enemies;--but she
had no suspicion that he himself was the enemy of enemies. Had she entertained such an idea
she might have reconciled herself to it, as the man was able to support a wife, and by such
a marriage she would have been at once relieved from all further charge. In her own mind she
would have felt very strongly that Mary had chosen the wrong man, and thrown herself into the
inferior mode of life. But her own difficulties in the matter would have been solved. There
was, however, no dream of such a kind entertained by any of the family. Reginald Morton was
hardly regarded as a young man, and was supposed to be gloomy, misanthropic, and bookish. Mrs.
Masters was not at all averse to the companionship for the journey, and Mr. Masters was really
grateful to one of the old family for being kind to his girl.

Nor must it be supposed that Mary herself had any expectations or even any hopes. With juvenile
aptness to make much of the little things which had interested her, and prone to think more
than was reasonable of any intercourse with a man who seemed to her to be so superior to others
as Reginald Morton, she was anxious for an opportunity to set herself right with him about
that scene at the bridge. She still thought that he was offended and that she had given him
cause for offence. He had condescended to make her a request to which she had acceded,--and
she had then not done as she had promised. She thought she was sure that this was all she had
to say to him, and yet she was aware that she was unnaturally excited at the idea of spending
three or four hours alone with him. The fly which was to take him to the railway station called
for Mary at the attorney's door at ten o'clock, and the attorney handed her in. "It is very
good of you indeed, Mr. Morton, to take so much trouble with my girl," said the attorney, really
feeling what he said. "It is very good of you to trust her to me," said Reginald, also sincerely.
Mary was still to him the girl who had been brought up by his aunt at Bragton, and not the
fit companion for Larry Twentyman.

Reginald Morton had certainly not made up his mind to ask Mary Masters to be his wife. Thinking
of Mary Masters very often as he had done during the last two months, he was quite sure that
he did not mean to marry at all. He did acknowledge to himself that were he to allow himself
to fall in love with any one it would be with Mary Masters,--but for not doing so there were
many reasons. He had lived so long alone that a married life would not suit him; as a married
man he would be a poor man; he himself was averse to company, whereas most women prefer society.
And then, as to this special girl, had he not reason for supposing that she preferred another
man to him, and a man of such a class that the very preference showed her to be unfit to mate
with him? He also cozened himself with an idea that it was well that he should have the opportunity
which the journey would give him of apologising for his previous rudeness to her.

In the carriage they had the compartment to themselves with the exception of an old lady at
the further end who had a parrot in a cage for which she had taken a first-class ticket. "I
can't offer you this seat," said the old lady, "because it has been booked and paid for my
bird." As neither of the new passengers had shown the slightest wish for the seat the communication
was perhaps unnecessary. Neither of the two had any idea of separating from the other for the
sake of the old lady's company.

They had before them a journey of thirty miles on one railway, then a stop of half an hour
at the Hinxton junction; and then another journey of about equal length. In the first hour
very little was said that might not have been said in the presence of Lady Ushant,--or even
of Mrs. Masters. There might be a question whether, upon the whole, the parrot had not the
best of the conversation, as the bird, which the old lady declared to be the wonder of his
species, repeated the last word of nearly every sentence spoken either by our friends or by
the old lady herself. "Don't you think you'd be less liable to cold with that window closed?"
the old lady said to Mary. "Cosed,--cosed,--cosed," said the bird, and Morton was of course
constrained to shut the window. "He is a wonderful bird," said the old lady. "Wonderful bird;--wonderful
bird;--wonderful bird," said the parrot, who was quite at home with this expression. "We shall
be able to get some lunch at Hinxton," said Reginald. "Inxton," screamed the bird--"Caw,--caw--caw."
"He's worth a deal of money," said the old lady. "Deal o' money, Deal o' money," repeated the
bird as he scrambled round the wire cage with a tremendous noise, to the great triumph of the
old lady.

No doubt the close attention which the bird paid to everything that passed, and the presence
of the old lady as well, did for a time interfere with their conversation. But, after awhile,
the old lady was asleep, and the bird, having once or twice attempted to imitate the somnolent
sounds which his mistress was making, seemed also to go to sleep himself. Then Reginald, beginning
with Lady Ushant and the old Morton family generally, gradually got the conversation round
to Bragton and the little bridge. He had been very stern when he had left her there, and he
knew also that at that subsequent interview, when he had brought Lady Ushant's note to her
at her father's house, he had not been cordially kind to her. Now they were thrown together
for an hour or so in the closest companionship, and he wished to make her comfortable and happy.
"I suppose you remember Bragton?" he said.

"Every path and almost every tree about the place."

"So do I. I called there the other day. Family quarrels are so silly, you know."

"Did you see Mr. Morton?"

"No;--and he hasn't returned my visit yet. I don't know whether he will,--and I don't much
mind whether he does or not. That old woman is there, and she is very bitter against me. I
don't care about the people, but I am sorry that I cannot see the place."

"I ought to have walked with you that day," she said in a very low tone. The parrot opened
his eyes and looked at them as though he were striving to catch his cue.

"Of course you ought." But as he said this he smiled and there was no offence in his voice.
"I dare say you didn't guess how much I thought of it. And then I was a bear to you. I always
am a bear when I am not pleased."

"Peas, peas, peas," said the parrot.

"I shall be a bear to that brute of a bird before long."

"What a very queer bird he is."

"He is a public nuisance,--and so is the old lady who brought him here," This was said quite
in a whisper. "It is very odd, Miss Masters, but you are literally the only person in all Dillsborough
in regard to whom I have any genuine feeling of old friendship."

"You must remember a great many."

"But I did not know any well enough. I was too young to have seen much of your father. But
when I came back at that time you and I were always together."

"Gedder, gedder, gedder," said the parrot.

"If that bird goes on like that I'll speak to the guard," said Mr. Morton with affected anger.
"Polly mustn't talk," said the old lady waking up.

"Tok, tok, tok, tok," screamed the parrot. Then the old lady threw a shawl over him and again
went to sleep.

"If I behaved badly I beg your pardon," said Mary.

"That's just what I wanted to say to you, Miss Masters,--only a man never can do those things
as well as a lady. I did behave badly, and I do beg your pardon. Of course I ought to have
asked Mr. Twentyman to come with us. I know that he is a very good fellow."

"Indeed he is," said Mary Masters, with all the emphasis in her power. "Deedy is, deedy is,
deedy is, deedy is," repeated the parrot in a very angry voice about a dozen times under his
shawl, and while the old lady was remonstrating with her too talkative companion their tickets
were taken and they ran into the Hinxton Station. "If the old lady is going on to Cheltenham
we'll travel third class before we'll sit in the same carriage again with that bird," said
Morton laughing as he took Mary into the refreshment-room. But the old lady did not get into
the same compartment as they started, and the last that was heard of the parrot at Hinxton
was a quarrel between him and the guard as to certain railway privileges.

When they had got back into the railway carriage Morton was very anxious to ask whether she
was in truth engaged to marry the young man as to whose good fellowship she and the parrot
had spoken up so emphatically, but he hardly knew how to put the question. And were she to
declare that she was engaged to him, what should he say then? Would he not be bound to congratulate
her? And yet it would be impossible that any word of such congratulation should pass his lips?
"You will stay a month at Cheltenham?" he said.

"Your aunt was kind enough to ask me for so long."

"I shall go back on Saturday. If I were to stay longer I should feel myself to be in her way.
And I have come to live a sort of hermit's life. I hardly know how to sit down and eat my dinner
in company, and have no idea of seeing a human being before two o'clock."

"What do you do with yourself?"

"I rush in and out of the garden and spend my time between my books and my flowers and my tobacco
pipes."

"Do you mean to live always like that?" she asked, in perfect innocency.

"I think so. Sometimes I doubt whether it's wise."

"I don't think it wise at all," said Mary.

"Why not?"

"People should live together, I think."

"You mean that I ought to have a wife?"

"No;--I didn't mean that. Of course that must be just as you might come to like any one well
enough. But a person need not shut himself up and be a hermit because he is not married. Lord
Rufford is not married and he goes everywhere."

"He has money and property and is a man of pleasure."

"And your cousin, Mr. John Morton."

"He is essentially a man of business, which I never could have been. And they say he is going
to be married to that Miss Trefoil who has been staying there. Unfortunately I have never had
anything that I need do in all my life, and therefore I have shut myself up as you call it.
I wonder what your life will be." Mary blushed and said nothing. "If there were anything to
tell I wish I knew it"

"There is nothing to tell."

"Nothing?"

She thought a moment before she answered him and then she said, "Nothing. What should I have
to tell?" she added trying to laugh.

He remained for a few minutes silent, and then put his head out towards her as he spoke. "I
was afraid that you might have to tell that you were engaged to marry Mr. Twentyman."

"I am not"

"Oh!--I am so glad to hear it"

"I don't know why you should be glad. If I had said I was, it would have been very uncivil
if you hadn't declared yourself glad to hear that"

"Then I must have been uncivil for I couldn't have done it. Knowing how my aunt loves you,
knowing what she thinks of you and what she would think of such a match, remembering myself
what I do of you, I could not have congratulated you on your engagement to a man whom I think
so much inferior to yourself in every respect. Now you know it all,--why I was angry at the
bridge, why I was hardly civil to you at your father's house; and, to tell the truth, why I
have been so anxious to be alone with you for half an hour. If you think it an offence that
I should take so much interest in you, I will beg your pardon for that also."

"Oh, no!"

"I have never spoken to my aunt about it, but I do not think that she would have been contented
to hear that you were to become the wife of Mr. Twentyman."

What answer she was to make to this or whether she was to make any she had not decided when
they were interrupted by the reappearance of the old lady and the bird. She was declaring to
the guard at the window, that as she had paid for a first-class seat for her parrot she would
get into any carriage she liked in which there were two empty seats. Her bird had been ill-treated
by some scurrilous ill-conditioned travellers and she had therefore returned to the comparative
kindness of her former companions. "They threatened to put him out of the window, sir," said
the old woman to Morton as she was forcing her way in. "Windersir, windersir," said the parrot.

"I hope he'll behave himself here, ma'am," said Morton.

"Heremam, heremam, heremam," said the parrot.

"Now go to bed like a good bird," said the old lady putting her shawl over the cage,--whereupon
the parrot made a more diabolical noise than ever under the curtain.

Mary felt that there was no more to be said about Mr. Twentyman and her hopes and prospects,
and for the moment she was glad to be left in peace. The old lady and the parrot continued
their conversation till they had all arrived in Cheltenham;--and Mary as she sat alone thinking
of it afterwards might perhaps feel a soft regret that Reginald Morton had been interrupted
by the talkative animal.

VOLUME II

CHAPTER I

Mounser Green

"So Peter Boyd is to go to Washington in the Paragon's place, and Jack Slade goes to Vienna,
and young Palliser is to get Slade's berth at Lisbon." This information was given by a handsome
man, known as Mounser Green, about six feet high, wearing a velvet shooting coat,--more properly
called an office coat from its present uses, who had just entered a spacious well-carpeted
comfortable room in which three other gentlemen were sitting at their different tables. This
was one of the rooms in the Foreign Office and looked out into St. James's Park. Mounser Green
was a distinguished clerk in that department,--and distinguished also in various ways, being
one of the fashionable men about town, a great adept at private theatricals, remarkable as
a billiard player at his club, and a contributor to various magazines. At this moment he had
a cigar in his mouth, and when he entered the room he stood with his back to the fire ready
for conversation and looking very unlike a clerk who intended to do any work. But there was
a general idea that Mounser Green was invaluable to the Foreign Office. He could speak and
write two or three foreign languages; he could do a spurt of work,--ten hours at a sitting
when required; he was ready to go through fire and water for his chief; and was a gentleman
all round. Though still nominally a young man, being perhaps thirty-five years of age--he had
entered the service before competitive examination had assumed its present shape and had therefore
the gifts which were required for his special position. Some critics on the Civil Service were
no doubt apt to find fault with Mounser Green. When called upon at his office he was never
seen to be doing anything, and he always had a cigar in his mouth. These gentlemen found out
too that he never entered his office till half-past twelve, perhaps not having also learned
that he was generally there till nearly seven. No doubt during the time that he remained there
he read a great many newspapers, and wrote a great many private notes,--on official paper!
But there may be a question whether even these employments did not help to make Mounser Green
the valuable man he was.

"What a lounge for Jack Slade," said young Hoffmann.

"I'll tell you who it won't be a lounge for, Green," said Archibald Currie, the clerk who held
the second authority among them. "What will Bell Trefoil think of going to Patagonia?"

"That's all off," said Mounser Green.

"I don't think so," said Charley Glossop, one of the numerous younger sons of Lord Glossop.
"She was staying only the other day down at the Paragon's place in Rufford, and they went together
to my cousin Rufford's house. His sister, that's Lady Penwether, told me they were certainly
engaged then."

"That was before the Paragon had been named for Patagonia. To tell you a little bit of my own
private mind,--which isn't scandal," said Mounser Green, "because it is only given as opinion,--I
think it just possible that the Paragon has taken this very uncomfortable mission because it
offered him some chance of escape."

"Then he has more sense about him than I gave him credit for," said Archibald Currie.

"Why should a man like Morton go to Patagonia?" continued Green. "He has an independent fortune
and doesn't want the money. He'd have been sure to have something comfortable in Europe very
soon if he had waited, and was much better off as second at a place like Washington. I was
quite surprised when he took it."

"Patagonia isn't bad at all," said Currie.

"That depends on whether a man has got money of his own. When I heard about the Paragon and
Bell Trefoil at Washington, I knew there had been a mistake made. He didn't know what he was
doing. I'm a poor man, but I wouldn't take her with 5,000 pounds a year, settled on myself."
Poor Mounser Green!

"I think she's the handsomest girl in London," said Hoffmann, who was a young man of German
parentage and perhaps of German taste.

"That may be," continued Green; "but, heaven and earth! what a life she would lead a man like
the Paragon! He's found it out, and therefore thought it well to go to South America. She has
declined already, I'm told; but he means to stick to the mission." During all this time Mounser
Green was smoking his cigar with his back to the fire, and the other clerks looked as though
they had nothing to do but talk about the private affairs of ministers abroad and their friends.
Of course it will be understood that since we last saw John Morton the position of Minister
Plenipotentiary at Patagonia had been offered to him and that he had accepted the place in
spite of Bragton and of Arabella Trefoil.

At that moment a card was handed to Mounser Green by a messenger who was desired to show the
gentleman up. "It's the Paragon himself," said Green.

We'll make him tell us whether he's going out single or double," said Archibald Currie.

"After what the Rufford people said to me I'm sure he's going to marry her," said young Glossop.
No doubt Lady Penwether had been anxious to make it understood by every one connected with
the family that if any gossip should be heard about Rufford and Arabella Trefoil there was
nothing in it.

Then the Paragon was shown into the room and Mounser Green and the young men were delighted
to see him. Colonial governors at their seats of government, and Ministers Plenipotentiary
in their ambassadorial residences are very great persons indeed; and when met in society at
home, with the stars and ribbons which are common among them now, they are, less indeed, but
still something. But at the colonial and foreign offices in London, among the assistant secretaries
and clerks, they are hardly more than common men. All the gingerbread is gone there. His Excellency
is no more than Jones, and the Representative or Alter Ego of Royalty mildly asks little favours
of the junior clerks.

"Lord Drummond only wants to know what you wish and it shall be done," said Mounser Green.
Lord Drummond was the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the day. "I hope I need hardly say that
we were delighted that you accepted the offer."

"One doesn't like to refuse a step upward," said Morton; "otherwise Patagonia isn't exactly
the place one would like."

"Very good climate," said Currie. "Ladies I have known who have gone there have enjoyed it
very much."

"A little rough I suppose?"

"They didn't seem to say so. Young Bartletot took his wife out there, just married. He liked
it. There wasn't much society, but they didn't care about that just at first"

"Ah;--I'm a single man," said Morton laughing. He was too good a diplomate to be pumped in
that simple way by such a one as Archibald Currie.

"You'll like to see Lord Drummond. He is here and will be glad to shake hands with you. Come
into my room," Then Mounser Green led the way into a small inner sanctum in which it may be
presumed that he really did his work. It was here at any rate that he wrote the notes on official
note paper.

"They haven't settled as yet how they're to be off it," said Currie in a whisper, as soon as
the two men were gone, "but I'll bet a five-pound note that Bell Trefoil doesn't go out to
Patagonia as his wife."

"We know the Senator here well enough." This was said in the inner room by Mounser Green to
Morton, who had breakfasted with the Senator that morning and had made an appointment to meet
him at the Foreign Office. The Senator wanted to secure a seat for himself at the opening of
Parliament which was appointed to take place in the course of the next month, and being a member
of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the American Senate of course thought himself entitled
to have things done for him by the Foreign Office clerks. "Oh yes, I'll see him. Lord Drummond
will get him a seat as a matter of course. How is he getting on with your neighbour at Dillsborough?"

"So you've heard of that."

"Heard of it! who hasn't heard of it?"--At this moment the messenger came in again and the
Senator was announced. "Lord Drummond will manage about the seats in the House of Lords, Mr.
Gotobed. Of course he'll see you if you wish it; but I'll take a note of it"

"If you'll do that, Mr. Green, I shall be fixed up straight. And I'd a great deal sooner see
you than his lordship."

"That's very flattering, Mr. Gotobed, but I'm sure I don't know why."

"Because Lord Drummond always seems to me to have more on hand than he knows how to get through,
and you never seem to have anything to do."

"That's not quite so flattering,--and would be killing, only that I feel that your opinion
is founded on error. Mens conscia recti, Mr. Gotobed."

"Exactly. I understand English pretty well; better as far as I can see than some of those I
meet around me here; but I don't go beyond that, Mr. Green."

"I merely meant to observe, Mr. Gotobed, that as, within my own breast, I am conscious of my
zeal and diligence in Her Majesty's service your shafts of satire pass me by without hurting
me. Shall I offer you a cigar? A candle burned at both ends is soon consumed." It was quite
clear that as quickly as the Senator got through one end of his cigar by the usual process
of burning, so quickly did he eat the other end. But he took that which Mounser Green offered
him without any displeasure at the allusion. "I'm sorry to say that I haven't a spittoon,"
said Mounser Green, "but the whole fire-place is at your service." The Senator could hardly
have heard this, as it made no difference in his practice.

Morton at this moment was sent for by the Secretary of State, and the Senator expressed his
intention of waiting for him in Mr. Green's room. "How does the great Goarly case get on, Mr.
Gotobed?" asked the clerk.

Well! I don't know that it's getting on very much."

"You are not growing tired of it, Senator?"

"Not by any means. But it's getting itself complicated, Mr. Green. I mean to see the end of
it, and if I'm beat,--why I can take a beating as well as another man."

"You begin to think you will be beat?"

"I didn't say so, Mr. Green. It is very hard to understand all the ins and outs of a case like
that in a foreign country."

"Then I shouldn't try it, Senator."

"There I differ. It is my object to learn all I can."

"At any rate I shouldn't pay for the lesson as you are like to do. What'll the bill be? Four
hundred dollars?"

"Never mind, Mr. Green. If you'll take the opinion of a good deal older man than yourself and
one who has perhaps worked harder, you'll understand that there's no knowledge got so thoroughly
as that for which a man pays." Soon after this Morton came out from the great man's room and
went away in company with the Senator.

CHAPTER II

The Senator's Letter

Soon after this Senator Gotobed went down, alone, to Dillsborough and put himself up at the
Bush Inn. Although he had by no means the reputation of being a rich man, he did not seem to
care much what money he spent in furthering any object he had taken in hand. He never knew
how near he had been to meeting the direst inhospitality at Mr. Runciman's house. That worthy
innkeeper, knowing well the Senator's sympathy with Goarly, Scrobby and Bearside, and being
heart and soul devoted to the Rufford interest, had almost refused the Senator the accommodation
he wanted. It was only when Mrs. Runciman represented to him that she could charge ten shillings
a day for the use of her sitting-room, and also that Lord Rufford himself had condescended
to entertain the gentleman, that Runciman gave way. Mr. Gotobed would, no doubt, have delighted
in such inhospitality. He would have gone to the second-rate inn, which was very second-rate
indeed, and have acquired a further insight into British manners and British prejudices. As
it was, he made himself at home in the best upstairs sitting-room at the Bush, and was quite
unaware of the indignity offered to him when Mr. Runciman refused to send him up the best sherry.
Let us hope that this refusal was remembered by the young woman in the bar when she made out
the Senator's bill.

He stayed at Dillsborough for three or four days during which he saw Goarly once and Bearside
on two or three occasions,--and moreover handed to that busy attorney three bank notes for
five pounds each. Bearside was clever enough to make him believe that Goarly would certainly
obtain serious damages from the lord. With Bearside he was fairly satisfied, thinking however
that the man was much more illiterate and ignorant than the general run of lawyers in the United
States; but with Goarly he was by no means satisfied. Goarly endeavoured to keep out of his
way and could not be induced to come to him at the Bush. Three times he walked out to the house
near Dillsborough Wood, on each of which occasions Mrs. Goarly pestered him for money, and
told him at great length the history of her forlorn goose. Scrobby, of whom he had heard, he
could not see at all; and he found that Bearside was very unwilling to say anything about Scrobby.
Scrobby, and the red herrings and the strychnine and the dead fox were, according to Bearside,
to be kept quite distinct from the pheasants and the wheat. Bearside declared over and over
again that there was no evidence to connect his client with the demise of the fox. When asked
whether he did not think that his client had compassed the death of the animal, he assured
the Senator that in such matters, he never ventured to think.

"Let us go by the evidence, Mr. Gotobed," he said.

"But I am paying my money for the sake of getting at the facts."

"Evidence is facts, sir," said the attorney. "Any way let us settle about the pheasants first"

The condition of the Senator's mind may perhaps be best made known by a letter which he wrote
from Dillsborough to his especial and well-trusted friend Josiah Scroome, a member of the House
of Representatives from his own state of Mickewa. Since he had been in England he had written
constantly to his friend, giving him the result of his British experiences.

Bush Inn, Dillsborough, Ufford County, England, December 16, 187-.

MY DEAR SIR,

Since my last I have enjoyed myself very well and I am I trust beginning to understand something
of the mode of thinking of this very peculiar people. That there should be so wide a difference
between us Americans and these English, from whom we were divided, so to say, but the other
day, is one of the most peculiar physiological phenomena that the history of the world will
have afforded. As far as I can hear a German or even a Frenchman thinks much more as an Englishman
thinks than does an American. Nor does this come mainly from the greater prevalence with us
of democratic institutions. I do not think that any one can perceive in half an hour's conversation
the difference between a Swiss and a German; but I fancy, and I may say I flatter. myself,
that an American is as easily distinguished from an Englishman, as a sheep from a goat or a
tall man from one who is short.

And yet there is a pleasure in associating with those here of the highest rank which I find
it hard to describe, and which perhaps I, ought to regard as a pernicious temptation to useless
luxury. There is an ease of manner with them which recalls with unfavourable reminiscences
the hard self-consciousness of the better class of our citizens. There is a story of an old
hero who with his companions fell among beautiful women and luscious wine, and, but that the
hero had been warned in time, they would all have been turned into filthy animals by yielding
to the allurements around them. The temptation here is perhaps the same. I am not a hero; and,
though I too have been warned by the lessons I have learned under our happy Constitution, I
feel that I might easily become one of the animals in question.

And, to give them their due, it is better than merely beautiful women and luscious wine. There
is a reality about them, and a desire to live up to their principles which is very grand. Their
principles are no doubt bad, utterly antagonistic to all progress, unconscious altogether of
the demand for progressive equality which is made by the united voices of suffering mankind.
The man who is born a lord and who sees a dozen serfs around him who have been born to be half-starved
ploughmen, thinks that God arranged it all and that he is bound to maintain a state of things
so comfortable to himself, as being God's vicegerent here on earth. But they do their work
as vicegerents with an easy grace, and with sweet pleasant voices and soft movements, which
almost make a roan doubt whether the Almighty has not in truth intended that such injustice
should be permanent. That one man should be rich and another poor is a necessity in the present
imperfect state of civilisation;--but that one man should be born to be a legislator, born
to have everything, born to be a tyrant,--and should think it all right, is to me miraculous.
But the greatest miracle of all is that they who are not so born, who have been born to suffer
the reverse side,-- should also think it to be all right.

With us it is necessary that a man, to shine in society, should have done something, or should
at any rate have the capacity of doing something. But here the greatest fool that you meet
will shine, and will be admitted to be brilliant, simply because he has possessions. Such a
one will take his part in conversation though he knows nothing, and, when inquired into, he
will own that he knows nothing. To know anything is not his line in life. But he can move about,
and chatter like a child of ten, and amuse himself from morning to night with various empty
playthings,--and be absolutely proud of his life!

I have lately become acquainted with a certain young lord here of this class who has treated
me with great kindness, although I have taken it into my head to oppose him as to a matter
in which he is much interested. I ventured to inquire of him as to the pursuits of his life.
He is a lord, and therefore a legislator, but he made no scruple to tell me that he never goes
near the Chamber in which it is his privilege to have a seat. But his party does not lose his
support. Though he never goes near the place, he can vote, and is enabled to trust his vote
to some other more ambitious lord who does go there. It required the absolute evidence of personal
information from those who are themselves concerned to make me believe that legislation in
Great Britain could be carried on after such a fashion as this! Then he told me what he does
do. All the winter he hunts and shoots, going about to other rich men's houses when there is
no longer sufficient for him to shoot left on his own estate. That lasts him from the 1st of
September to the end of March, and occupies all his time. August he spends in Scotland, also
shooting other animals. During the other months he fishes, and plays cricket and tennis, and
attends races, and goes about to parties in London. His evenings he spends at a card table
when he can get friends to play with him. It is the employment of his life to fit in his amusements
so that he may not have a dull day. Wherever he goes he carries his wine with him and his valet
and his grooms; and if he thinks there is anything to fear, his cook also. He very rarely opens
a book. He is more ignorant than a boy of fifteen with us, and yet he manages to have something
to say about everything. When his ignorance has been made as clear as the sun at noon-day,
he is no whit ashamed. One would say that such a life would break the heart of any man; but
upon my word, I doubt whether I ever came across a human being so self-satisfied as this young
lord.

I have come down here to support the case of a poor man who is I think being trampled on by
this do-nothing legislator. But I am bound to say that the lord in his kind is very much better
than the poor man in his. Such a wretched, squalid, lying, cowardly creature I did not think
that even England could produce. And yet the man has a property in land on which he ought to
be able to live in humble comfort. I feel sure that I have leagued myself with a rascal, whereas
I believe the lord, in spite of his ignorance and his idleness, to be honest. But yet the man
is being hardly used, and has had the spirit, or rather perhaps has been instigated by others,
to rebel. His crops have been eaten up by the lord's pheasants, and the lord, exercising plenary
power as though he were subject to no laws, will only pay what compensation he himself chooses
to award. The whole country here is in arms against the rebel, thinking it monstrous that a
man living in a hovel should contest such a point with the owner of half-a-dozen palaces. I
have come forward to help the man for the sake of seeing how the matter will go; and I have
to confess that though those under the lord have treated me as though I were a miscreant, the
lord himself and his friends have been civil enough.

I say what I think wherever I go, and I do not find it taken in bad part. In that respect we
might learn something even from Englishmen. When a Britisher over in the States says what he
thinks about us, we are apt to be a little rough with him. I have, indeed, known towns in which
he couldn't speak out with personal safety. Here there is no danger of that kind. I am getting
together the materials for a lecture on British institutions in general, in which I shall certainly
speak my mind plainly, and I think I shall venture to deliver it in London before I leave for
New York in the course of next spring. I will, however, write to you again before that time comes.

                           Believe me to be,
                             Dear Sir,
                               With much sincerity,
                                 Yours truly,
                                   Elias Gotobed.
The Honble. Josiah Scroome,
25, Q Street,
Minnesota Avenue,
Washington.

On the morning of the Senator's departure from Dillsborough, Mr. Runciman met him standing
under the covered way leading from the inn yard into the street. He was waiting for the omnibus
which was being driven about the town, and which was to call for him and take him down to the
railway station. Mr. Runciman had not as yet spoken to him since he had been at the inn, and
had not even made himself personally known to his guest. "So, Sir, you are going to leave us,"
said the landlord, with a smile which was intended probably as a smile of triumph.

"Yes, sir," said the Senator. "It's about time, I guess, that I should get back to London."

"I dare say it is, Sir," said the landlord. "I dare say you've seen enough of Mr. Goarly by
this time."

"That's as may be. I don't know whom I have the pleasure of speaking to."

"My name is Runciman, Sir. I'm the landlord here."

"I hope I see you well, Mr. Runciman. I have about come to an end of my business here."

"I dare say you have, sir. I should say so. Perhaps I might express an opinion that you never
came across a greater blackguard than Goarly either in this country or your own."

"That's a strong opinion, Mr. Runciman."

"It's the general opinion here, sir. I should have thought you'd found it out before this."

"I don't know that I am prepared at this moment to declare all that I have found out"

"I thought you'd have been tired of it by this time, Mr. Gotobed."

"Tired of what?"

"Tired of the wrong side, sir."

"I don't know that I am on the wrong side. A man may be in the right on one point even though
his life isn't all that it ought to be."

"That's true, sir; but if they told you all that they know up street,"--and Runciman pointed
to the part of the town in which Bearside's office was situated,--"I should have thought you
would have understood who was going to win and who was going to lose. Good day, sir; I hope
you'll have a pleasant journey. Much obliged to you for your patronage, sir;" and Runciman,
still smiling unpleasantly, touched his hat as the Senator got into the omnibus.

The Senator was not very happy as to the Goarly business. He had paid some money and had half
promised more, and had found out that he was in a boat with thoroughly disreputable persons.
As he had said to the landlord, a man may have the right on his side in an action at law though
he be a knave or a rascal; and if a lord be unjust to a poor man, the poor man should have
justice done him, even though he be not quite a pattern poor man. But now he was led to believe
by what the landlord had said to him that he was being kept in the dark, and that there were
facts generally known that he did not know. He had learned something of English manners and
English institutions by his interference, but there might be a question whether he was not
paying too dearly for his whistle. And there was growing upon him a feeling that before he
had done he would have to blush for his colleagues.

As the omnibus went away Dr. Nupper joined Mr. Runciman under the archway. "I'm blessed if
I can understand that man," said Runciman. "What is it he's after?"

"Notoriety," said the doctor, with the air of a man who has completely solved a difficult question.

"He'll have to pay for it, and that pretty smart," said Runciman. "I never heard of such a
foolish thing in all my life. What the dickens is it to him? One can understand Bearside, and
Scrobby too. When a fellow has something to get, one does understand it. But why an old fellow
like that should come down from the moon to pay ever so much money for such a man as Goarly,
is what I don't understand."

"Notoriety," said the doctor.

"He evidently don't know that Nickem has got round Goarly," said the landlord.

CHAPTER III

At Cheltenham

The month at Cheltenham was passed very quietly and would have been a very happy month with
Mary Masters but that there grew upon her from day to day increasing fears of what she would
have to undergo when she returned to Dillsborough. At the moment when she was hesitating with
Larry Twentyman, when she begged him to wait six months and then at last promised to give him
an answer at the end of two, she had worked herself up to think that it might possibly be her
duty to accept her lover for the sake of her family. At any rate she had at that moment thought
that the question of duty ought to be further considered, and therefore she had vacillated.
When the two months' delay was accorded to her, and within that period the privilege of a long
absence from Dillsborough, she put the trouble aside for a while with the common feeling that
the chapter of accidents might do something for her. Before she had reached Cheltenham the
chapter of accidents had done much. When Reginald Morton told her that he could not have congratulated
her on such prospects, and had explained to her why in truth he had been angry at the bridge,--how
he had been anxious to be alone with her that he might learn whether she were really engaged
to this man,--then she had known that her answer to Larry Twentyman at the end of the two months
must be a positive refusal.

But as she became aware of this a new trouble arose and harassed her very soul. When she had
asked for the six months she had not at the moment been aware, she had not then felt, that
a girl who asks for time is supposed to have already surrendered. But since she had made that
unhappy request the conviction had grown upon her. She had read it in every word her stepmother
said to her and in her father's manner. The very winks and hints and little jokes which fell
from her younger sisters told her that it was so. She could see around her the satisfaction
which had come from the settlement of that difficult question,--a satisfaction which was perhaps
more apparent with her father than even with the others. Then she knew what she had done, and
remembered to have heard that a girl who expresses a doubt is supposed to have gone beyond
doubting. While she was still at Dillsborough there was a feeling that no evil would arise
from this if she could at last make up her mind to be Mrs. Twentyman; but when the settled
conviction came upon her, after hearing Reginald Morton's words, then she was much troubled.

He stayed only a couple of days at Cheltenham and during that time said very little to her.
He certainly spoke no word which would give her a right to think that he himself was attached
to her. He had been interested about her, as was his aunt, Lady Ushant, because she had been
known and her mother had been known by the old Mortons. But there was nothing of love in all
that. She had never supposed that there would be; and yet there was a vague feeling in her
bosom that as he had been strong in expressing his objection to Mr. Twentyman there might have
been something more to stir him than the memory of those old days at Bragton!

"To my thinking there is a sweetness about her which I have never seen equalled in any young
woman." This was said by Lady Ushant to her nephew after Mary had gone to bed on the night
before he left.

"One would suppose," he answered, "that you wanted me to ask her to be my wife."

"I never want anything of that kind, Reg. I never make in such matters,--or mar if I can help it."

"There is a man at Dillsborough wants to marry her."

"I can easily believe that there should be two or three. Who is the man?"

"Do you remember old Twentyman of Chowton?"

"He was our near neighbour. Of course I remember him. I can remember well when they bought
the land."

"It is his son."

"Surely he can hardly be worthy of her, Reg"

"And yet they say he is very worthy. I have asked about him, and he is not a bad fellow. He
keeps his money and has ideas of living decently. He doesn't drink or gamble. But he's not
a gentleman or anything like one. I should think he never opens a book. Of course it would
be a degradation."

"And what does Mary say herself?"

"I fancy she has refused him." Then he added after a pause, "Indeed I know she has."

"How should you know? Has she told you?" In answer to this he only nodded his head at the old
lady. "There must have been close friendship, Reg, between you two when she told you that.
I hope you have not made her give up one suitor by leading her to love another who does not
mean to ask her."

"I certainly have not done that," said Reg. Men may often do much without knowing that they
do anything, and such probably had been the case with Reginald Morton during the journey from
Dillsborough to Cheltenham.

"What would her father wish?"

"They all want her to take the man."

"How can she do better?"

"Would you have her marry a man who is not a gentleman, whose wife will never be visited by
other ladies; in marrying whom she would go altogether down into another and a lower world?"

This was a matter on which Lady Ushant and her nephew had conversed often, and he thought he
knew her to be thoroughly wedded to the privileges which she believed to be attached to her
birth. With him the same feeling was almost the stronger because he was so well aware of the
blot upon himself caused by the lowness of his own father's marriage. But a man, he held, could
raise a woman to his own rank, whereas a woman must accept the level of her husband.

"Bread and meat and chairs and tables are very serious things, Reg."

"You would then recommend her to take this man, and pass altogether out of your own sphere?"

"What can I do for her? I am an old woman who will be dead probably before the first five years
of her married life have passed over her. And as for recommending, I do not know enough to
recommend anything. Does she like the man?"

"I am sure she would feel herself degraded by marrying him."

"I trust she will never live to feel herself degraded. I do not believe that she could do anything
that she thought would degrade her. But I think that you and I had better leave her to herself
in this matter." Further on in the same evening, or rather late in the night,--for they had
then sat talking together for hours over the fire,--she made a direct statement to him. "When
I die, Reg, I have but 5,000 pounds to leave behind me, and this I have divided between you
and her. I shall not tell her because I might do more harm than good. But you may know."

"That would make no difference to me," he said.

"Very likely not, but I wish you to know it. What troubles me is that she will have to pay
so much out of it for legacy duty. I might leave it all to you and you could give it her."
An honester or more religious or better woman than old Lady Ushant there was not in Cheltenham,
but it never crossed her conscience that it would be wrong to cheat the revenue. It may be
doubted whether any woman has ever been brought to such honesty as that.

On the next morning Morton went away without saying another word in private to Mary Masters
and she was left to her quiet life with the old lady. To an ordinary visitor nothing could
have been less exciting, for Lady Ushant very seldom went out and never entertained company.
She was a tall thin old lady with bright eyes and grey hair and a face that was still pretty
in spite of sunken eyes and sunken cheeks and wrinkled brow. There was ever present with her
an air of melancholy which told a whole tale of the sadness of a long life. Her chief excitement
was in her two visits to church on Sunday and in the letter which she wrote every week to her
nephew at Dillsborough. Now she had her young friend with her, and that too was an excitement
to her,--and the more so since she had heard the tidings of Larry Twentyman's courtship.

She made up her mind that she would not speak on the subject to her young friend unless her
young friend should speak to her. In the first three weeks nothing was said; but four or five
days before Mary's departure there came up a conversation about Dillsborough and Bragton. There
had been many conversations about Dillsborough and Bragton, but in all of them the name of
Lawrence Twentyman had been scrupulously avoided. Each had longed to name him, and yet each
had determined not to do so. But at length it was avoided no longer. Lady Ushant had spoken
of Chowton Farm and the widow. Then Mary had spoken of the place and its inhabitants. "Mr.
Twentyman comes a great deal to our house now," she said.

"Has he any reason, my dear?"

"He goes with papa once a week to the club; and he sometimes lends my sister Kate a pony. Kate
is very fond of riding."

"There is nothing else?"

"He has got to be intimate and I think mamma likes him."

"He is a good young man then?"

"Very good," said Mary with an emphasis.

"And Chowton belongs to him."

"Oh yes;--it belongs to him."

"Some young men make such ducks and drakes of their property when they get it"

"They say that he's not like that at all. People say that he understands farming very well
and that he minds everything himself."

"What an excellent young man! There is no other reason for his coming to your house, Mary?"
Then the sluice-gates were opened and the whole story was told. Sitting there late into the
night Mary told it all as well as she knew how,--all of it except in regard to any spark of
love which might have fallen upon her in respect of Reginald Morton. Of Reginald Morton in
her story of course she did not speak; but all the rest she declared. She did not love the
man. She was quite sure of that. Though she thought so well of him there was, she was quite
sure, no feeling in her heart akin to love. She had promised to take time because she had thought
that she might perhaps be able to bring herself to marry him without loving him,-- to marry
him because her father wished it, and because her going from home would be a relief to her
stepmother and sisters, because it would be well for them all that she should be settled out
of the way. But since that she had made up her mind,--she thought that she had quite made up
her mind,--that it would be impossible.

"There is nobody else, Mary?" said Lady Ushant putting her hand on to Mary's lap. Mary protested
that there was nobody else without any consciousness that she was telling a falsehood. "And
you are quite sure that you cannot do it?"

"Do you think that I ought, Lady Ushant?"

"I should be very sorry to say that, my dear. A young woman in such a matter must be governed
by her feelings. Only he seems to be a deserving young man!" Mary looked askance at her friend,
remembering at the moment Reginald Morton's assurance that his aunt would have disapproved
of such an engagement. "But I never would persuade a girl to marry a man she did not love.
I think it would be wicked. I always thought so."

There was nothing about degradation in all this. It was quite clear to Mary that had she been
able to tell Lady Ushant that she was head over ears in love with this young man and that therefore
she was going to marry him, her old friend would have found no reason to lament such an arrangement.
Her old friend would have congratulated her. Lady Ushant evidently thought Larry Twentyman
to be good enough as soon as she heard what Mary found herself compelled to say in the young
man's favour. Mary was almost disappointed; but reconciled herself to it very quickly, telling
herself that there was yet time for her to decide in favour of her lover if she could bring
herself to do so.

And she did try that night and all the next day, thinking that if she could so make up her
mind she would declare her purpose to Lady Ushant before she left Cheltenham. But she could
not do it, and in the struggle with herself at last she learned something of the truth. Lady
Ushant saw nothing but what was right and proper in a marriage with Lawrence Twentyman, but
Reginald Morton had declared it to be improper, and therefore it was out of her reach. She
could not do it. She could not bring herself, after what he had said, to look him in the face
and tell him that she was going to become the wife of Larry Twentyman. Then she asked herself
the fatal question;--was she in love with Reginald Morton? I do not think that she answered
it in the affirmative, but she became more and more sure that she could never marry Larry Twentyman.

Lady Ushant declared herself to have been more than satisfied with the visit and expressed
a hope that it might be repeated in the next year. "I would ask you to come and make your home
here while I have a home to offer you, only that you would be so much more buried here than
at Dillsborough: And you have duties there which perhaps you ought not to leave. But come again
when your papa will spare you."

On her journey back she certainly was not very happy. There were yet three weeks wanting to
the time at which she would be bound to give her answer to Larry Twentyman; but why should
she keep the man waiting for three weeks when her answer was ready? Her stepmother she knew
would soon force her answer from her, and her father would be anxious to know what had been
the result of her meditations. The real period of her reprieve had been that of her absence
at Cheltenham, and that period was now come to an, end. At each station as she passed them
she remembered what Reginald Morton had been saying to her, and how their conversation had
been interrupted,--and perhaps occasionally aided,--by the absurdities of the bird. How sweet
it had been to be near him and to listen to his whispered voice! How great was the difference
between him and that other young man, the smartness of whose apparel was now becoming peculiarly
distasteful to her! Certainly it would have been better for her not to have gone to Cheltenham
if it was to be her fate to become Mrs. Twentyman. She was quite sure of that now.

She came up from the Dillsborough Station alone in the Bush omnibus. She had not expected any
one to meet her. Why should any one meet her? The porter put up her box and the omnibus left
her at the door. But she remembered well how she had gone down with Reginald Morton, and how
delightful had been every little incident of the journey. Even to walk with him up and down
the platform while waiting for the train had been a privilege. She thought of it as she got
out of the carriage and remembered that she had felt that the train had come too soon.

At her own door her father met her and took her into the parlour where the tea-things were
spread, and where her sisters were already seated. Her stepmother soon came in and kissed her
kindly. She was asked how she had enjoyed herself, and no disagreeable questions were put to
her that night. No questions, at least, were asked which she felt herself bound to answer.
After she was in bed Kate came to her and did say a word. "Well, Mary, do tell me. I won't
tell any one." But Mary refused to speak a word.

CHAPTER IV

The Rufford Correspondence

It might be surmised from the description which Lord Rufford had given of his own position
to his sister and his sister's two friends, when he pictured himself as falling over the edge
of the precipice while they hung on behind to save him, that he was sufficiently aware of the
inexpediency of the proposed intimacy with Miss Trefoil. Any one hearing him would have said
that Miss Trefoil's chances in that direction were very poor,--that a man seeing his danger
so plainly and so clearly understanding the nature of it would certainly avoid it. But what
he had said was no more than Miss Trefoil knew that he would say,---or, at any rate would think.
Of course she had against her not only all his friends,--but the man himself also and his own
fixed intentions. Lord Rufford was not a marrying man,--which was supposed to signify that
he intended to lead a life of pleasure till the necessity of providing an heir should be forced
upon him, when he would take to himself a wife out of his own class in life twenty years younger
than himself for whom he would not care a straw. The odds against Miss Trefoil were of course
great;--but girls have won even against such odds as these. She knew her own powers, and was
aware that Lord Rufford was fond of feminine beauty and feminine flutter and feminine flattery,
though he was not prepared to marry. It was quite possible that she might be able to dig such
a pit for him that it would be easier for him to marry her than to get out in any other way.
Of course she must trust something to his own folly at first. Nor did she trust in vain. Before
her week was over at Mrs. Gore's she received from him a letter, which, with the correspondence
to which it immediately led, shall be given in this chapter.

Letter No. I.

Rufford, Sunday.

My Dear Miss Trefoil,

We have had a sad house since you left us. Poor Caneback got better and then worse and then
better,--and at last died yesterday afternoon. And now; there is to be the funeral! The poor
dear old boy seems to have had nobody belonging to him and very little in the way of possessions.
I never knew anything of him except that he was, or had been, in the Blues, and that he was
about the best man in England to hounds on a bad horse. It now turns out that his father made
some money in India,--a sort of Commissary purveyor,-- and bought a commission for him twenty-five
years ago. Everybody knew him but nobody knew anything about, him. Poor old Caneback! I wish
he had managed to die anywhere else and I don't feel at all obliged to Purefoy for sending
that brute of a mare here. He said something to me about that wretched ball;--not altogether
so wretched! was it? But I didn't like what he said and told him a bit of my mind. Now we're
two for a while; and I don't care for how long unless he comes round.

I cannot stand a funeral and I shall get away from this. I will pay the bill and Purefoy may
do the rest. I'm going for Christmas to Surbiton's near Melton with a string of horses. Surbiton
is a bachelor, and as there will be no young ladies to interfere with me I shall have the more
time to think of you. We shall have a little play there instead. I don't know whether it isn't
the better of the two, as if one does get sat upon, one doesn't feel so confoundedly sheep-faced.
I have been out with the hounds two or three times since you went, as I could do no good staying
with that poor fellow and there was a time when we thought he would have pulled through. I
rode Jack one day, but he didn't carry me as well as he did you. I think he's more of a lady's
horse. If I go to Mistletoe I shall have some horses somewhere in the neighbourhood and I'll
make them take Jack, so that you may have a chance.

I never know how to sign myself to young ladies. Suppose I say that
I am yours,
                       Anything you like best,
                                 R.

This was a much nicer letter than Arabella had expected, as there were one or two touches in
it, apart from the dead man and the horses, which she thought might lead to something,--and
there was a tone in the letter which seemed to show that he was given to correspondence. She
took care to answer it so that he should get her letter on his arrival at Mr. Surbiton's house.
She found out Mr. Surbiton's address, and then gave a great deal of time to her letter.

Letter No. 2.

Murray's Hotel, Green Street, Thursday.

My Dear Lord Rufford,

As we are passing through London on our way from one purgatory with the Gores to another purgatory
with old Lady De Browne, and as mamma is asleep in her chair opposite, and as I have nothing
else on earth to do, I think I might as well answer your letter. Poor old Major! I am sorry
for him, because he rode so bravely. I shall never forget his face as he passed us, and again
as he rose upon his knee when that horrid blow came! How very odd that he should have been
like that, without any friends. What a terrible nuisance to you! I think you were quite wise
to come away. I am sure I should have done so. I can't conceive what right Sir John Purefoy
can have had to say anything, for after all it was his doing. Do you remember when you talked
of my riding Jemima? When I think of it I can hardly hold myself for shuddering.

It is so kind of you to think of me about Jack. I am never very fond of Mistletoe. Don't you
be mischievous now and tell the Duchess I said so. But with Jack in the neighbourhood I can
stand even her Grace. I think I shall be there about the middle of January but it must depend
on all those people mamma is going to. I shall have to make a great fight, for mamma thinks
that ten days in the year at Mistletoe is all that duty requires. But I always stick up for
my uncle, and mean in this instance to have a little of my own way. What are parental commands
in opposition to Jack and all his glories? Besides mamma does not mean to go herself.

I shall leave it to you to say whether the ball was `altogether wretched.' Of course there
must have been infinite vexation to you, and to us who knew of it all there was a feeling of
deep sorrow. But perhaps we were able, some of us, to make it a little lighter for you. At
any rate I shall never forget Rufford, whether the memory be more pleasant or more painful.
There are moments which one never can forget!

Don't go and gamble away your money among a lot of men. Though I dare say you have got so much
that it doesn't signify whether you lose some of it or not. I do think it is such a shame that
a man like you should have such a quantity, and that a poor girl such as I am shouldn't have
enough to pay for her hats and gloves. Why shouldn't I send a string of horses about just when
I please? I believe I could make as good a use of them as you do, and then I could lend you
Jack. I would be so good-natured. You should have Jack every day you wanted him.

You must write and tell me what day you will be at Mistletoe. It is you that have tempted me
and I don't mean to be there without you,--or I suppose I ought to say, without the horse.
But of course you will have understood that. No young lady ever is supposed to desire the presence
of any young man. It would be very improper of course. But a young man's Jack is quite another
thing.

So far her pen had flown with her, but then there came the necessity for a conclusion which
must be worded in some peculiar way, as his had been so peculiar. How far might she dare to
be affectionate without putting him on his guard? Or in what way might she be saucy so as best
to please him? She tried two or three, and at last she ended her letter as follows.

I have not had much experience in signing myself to young gentlemen and am therefore quite
in as great a difficulty as you were; but, though I can't swear that I am everything that you
like best, I will protest that I am pretty nearly what you ought to like,--as far as young
ladies go.

                         In the meantime I certainly am,
                             Yours truly,
                                 A. T.

P.S. Mind you write--about Jack; and address to Lady Smijth-- Greenacres Manor--Hastings.

There was a great deal in this letter which was not true. But then such ladies as Miss Trefoil
can never afford to tell the truth.

The letter was not written from Murray's Hotel, Lady Augustus having insisted on staying at
certain lodgings in Orchard Street because her funds were low. But on previous occasions they
had stayed at Murray's. And her mamma, instead of being asleep when the letter was written,
was making up her accounts. And every word about Mistletoe had been false. She had not yet
secured her invitation. She was hard at work on the attempt, having induced her father absolutely
to beg the favour from his brother. But at the present moment she was altogether diffident
of success. Should she fail she must only tell Lord Rufford that her mother's numerous engagements
had at the last moment made her happiness impossible. That she was going to Lady Smijth's was
true, and at Lady Smijth's house she received the following note from Lord Rufford. It was
then January, and the great Mistletoe question was not as yet settled.

Letter No. 3.

December 31.

My Dear Miss Trefoil,

Here I am still at Surbiton's and we have had such good sport that I'm half inclined to give
the Duke the slip. What a pity that you can't come here instead. Wouldn't it be nice for you
and half a dozen more without any of the Dowagers or Duennas? You might win some of the money
which I lose. I have been very unlucky and, if you had won it all, there would be plenty of
room for hats and gloves,--and for sending two or three Jacks about all the winter into the
bargain. I never did win yet. I don't care very much about it, but I don't know why I should
always be so uncommonly unlucky.

We had such a day yesterday,--an hour and ten minutes all in the open, and then a kill just
as the poor fellow was trying to make a drain under the high road. There were only five of
us up. Surbiton broke his horse's back at a bank, and young De Canute came down on to a road
and smashed his collar bone. Three or four of the hounds were so done that they couldn't be
got home. I was riding Black Harry and he won't be out again for a fortnight. It was the best
thing I've seen these two years. We never have it quite like that with the U.R.U.

If I don't go to Mistletoe I'll send Jack and a groom if you think the Duke would take them
in and let you ride the horse. If so I shall stay here pretty nearly all January, unless there
should be a frost. In that case I should go back to Rufford as I have a deal of shooting to
do. I shall be so sorry not to see you;--but there is always a sort of sin in not sticking
to hunting when it's good. It so seldom is just what it ought to be.

I rather think that after all we shall be down on that fellow who poisoned our fox, in spite
of your friend the Senator.

                         Yours always faithfully,
                                     R.

There was a great deal in this letter which was quite terrible to Miss Trefoil. In the first
place by the time she received it she had managed the matter with her uncle. Her father had
altogether refused to mention Lord Rufford's name, though he had heard the very plain proposition
which his daughter made to him with perfect serenity. But he had said to the Duke that it would
be a great convenience if Bell could be received at Mistletoe for a few days, and the Duke
had got the Duchess to assent. Lady Augustus, too, had been disposed of, and two very handsome
new dresses had been acquired. Her habit had been altered with reckless disregard of the coming
spring and she was fully prepared for her campaign. But what would Mistletoe be to her without
Lord Rufford? In spite of all that had been done she would not go there. Unless she could turn
him by her entreaties she would pack up everything and start for Patagonia, with the determination
to throw herself overboard on the way there if she could find the courage.

She had to think very much of her next letter. Should she write in anger or should she write
in love, or should she mingle both? There was no need for care now, as there had been at first.
She must reach him at once, or everything would be over. She must say something that would
bring him to Mistletoe, whatever that something might be. After much thought she determined
that mingled anger and love would be the best. So she mingled them as follows:

Letter No. 4.

Greenacre Manor, Monday.

Your last letter which I have just got has killed me. You must know that I have altered my
plans and done it at immense trouble for the sake of meeting you at Mistletoe. It will be most
unkind,--I might say worse,--if you put me off. I don't think you can do it as a gentleman.
I'm sure you would not if you knew what I have gone through with mamma and the whole set of
them to arrange it. Of course I shan't go if you don't come. Your talk of sending the horse
there is adding an insult to the injury. You must have meant to annoy me or you wouldn't have
pretended to suppose that it was the horse I wanted to see. I didn't think I could have taken
so violent a dislike to poor Jack as I did for a moment. Let me tell you that I think you are
bound to go to Mistletoe though the hunting at Melton should be better than was ever known
before. When the hunting is good in one place of course it is good in another. Even I am sportsman
enough to know that. I suppose you have been losing a lot of money and are foolish enough to
think you can win it back again.

Please, please come. It was to be the little cream of the year for
me. It wasn't Jack. There! That ought to bring you. And yet, if you
come, I will worship Jack. I have not said a word to mamma about
altering my plans, nor shall I while there is a hope. But to
Mistletoe I will not go, unless you are to be there. Pray answer
this by return of post. If we have gone your letter will of course
follow us. Pray come. Yours if you do come--; what shall I say?
Fill it as you please.
                                 A. T.

Lord Rufford when he received the above very ardent epistle was quite aware that he had better
not go to Mistletoe. He understood the matter nearly as well as Arabella did herself. But there
was a feeling with him that up to that stage of the affair he ought to do what he was asked
by a young lady, even though there might be danger. Though there was danger there would still
be amusement. He therefore wrote again as follows:

Letter No. 5.

Dear Miss Trefoil,

You shan't be disappointed whether it be Jack or any less useful
animal that you wish to see. At any rate Jack,--and the other
animal,--will be at Mistletoe on the 15th. I have written to the
Duke by this post. I can only hope that you will be grateful. After
all your abuse about my getting back my money I think you ought to
be very grateful. I have got it back again, but I can assure you
that has had nothing to do with it.
                       Yours ever,
                            R.

P.S. We had two miserably abortive days last week.

Arabella felt that a great deal of the compliment was taken away by the postscript; but still
she was grateful and contented.

CHAPTER V

"It is a long Way"

While the correspondence given in the last chapter was going on Miss Trefoil had other troubles
besides those there narrated, and other letters to answer. Soon after her departure from Rufford
she received a very serious but still an affectionate epistle from John Morton in which he
asked her if it was her intention to become his wife or not. The letter was very long as well
as very serious and need not be given here at length. But that was the gist of it; and he went
on to say that in regard to money he had made the most liberal proposition in his power, that
he must decline to have any further communication with lawyers, and that he must ask her to
let him know at once,--quite at once,--whether she did or did not regard herself as engaged
to him. It was a manly letter and ended by a declaration that as far as he himself was concerned
his feelings were not at all altered. This she received while staying at the Gores', but, in
accordance with her predetermined strategy, did not at once send any answer to it. Before she
heard again from Morton she had received that pleasant first letter from Lord Rufford, and
was certainly then in no frame of mind to assure Mr. Morton that she was ready to declare herself
his affianced wife before all the world. Then, after ten days, he had written to her again
and had written much more severely. It wanted at that time but a few days to Christmas, and
she was waiting for a second letter from Lord Rufford. Let what might come of it she could
not now give up the Rufford chance. As she sat thinking of it, giving the very best of her
mind to it, she remembered the warmth of that embrace in the little room behind the drawing-room,
and those halcyon minutes in which her head had been on his shoulder, and his arm round her
waist. Not that they were made halcyon to her by any of the joys of love. In giving the girl
her due it must be owned that she rarely allowed herself to indulge in simple pleasures. If
Lord Rufford, with the same rank and property, had been personally disagreeable to her it would
have been the same. Business to her had for many years been business, and her business had
been so very hard that she had never allowed lighter things to interfere with it. She had had
justice on her side when she rebuked her mother for accusing her of flirtations. But could
such a man as Lord Rufford-- with his hands so free,--venture to tell himself that such tokens
of affection with such a girl would mean nothing? If she might contrive to meet him again of
course they would be repeated; and then he should be forced to say that they did mean something.
When therefore the severe letter came from Morton,--severe and pressing, telling her that she
was bound to answer him at once and that were she still silent he must in regard to his own
honour take that as an indication of her intention to break off the match,--she felt that she
must answer it. The answer must, however, still be ambiguous. She would not if possible throw
away that stool quite as yet, though her mind was intent on ascending to the throne which it
might be within her power to reach. She wrote to him an ambiguous letter, but a letter which
certainly was not intended to liberate him. "He ought," she said, "to understand that a girl
situated as she was could not ultimately dispose of herself till her friends had told her that
she was free to do so. She herself did not pretend to have any interest in the affairs as to
which her father and his lawyers were making themselves busy. They had never even condescended
to tell her what it was they wanted on her behalf;-- nor, for the matter of that, had he, Morton,
ever told her what it was that he refused to do. Of course she could not throw herself into
his arms till these things were settled."--By that expression she had meant a metaphorical
throwing of herself, and not such a flesh and blood embracing as she had permitted to the lord
in the little room at Rufford. Then she suggested that he should appeal again to her father.
It need hardly be said that her father knew very little about it, and that the lawyers had
long since written to Lady Augustus to say that better terms as to settlement could not be
had from Mr. John Morton.

Morton, when he wrote his second letter, had received the offer of the mission to Patagonia
and had asked for a few days to think of it. After much consideration he had determined that,
he would say nothing to Arabella of the offer. Her treatment of him gave her no right to be
consulted. Should she at once write back declaring her readiness to become his wife, then he
would consult her,--and would not only consult her but would be prepared to abandon the mission
at the expression of her lightest wish. Indeed in that case he thought that he would himself
advise that it should be abandoned. Why should he expatriate himself to such a place with such
a wife as Arabella Trefoil? He received her answer and at once accepted the offer. He accepted
it, though he by no means assured himself that the engagement was irrevocably annulled. But
now, if she came to him, she must take her chance. She must be told that he at any rate was
going to Patagonia, and that unless she could make up her mind to do so too, she must remain
Arabella Trefoil for him. He would not even tell her of his appointment. He had done all that
in him lay and would prepare himself for his journey as a single man. A minister going out
to Patagonia would of course have some little leave of absence allowed him, and he arranged
with his friend Mounser Green that he should not start till April.

But when Lord Rufford's second letter reached Miss Trefoil down at Greenacre Manor, where she
had learned by common report that Mr. Morton was to be the new minister at Patagonia,--when
she believed as she then did that the lord was escaping her, that, seeing and feeling his danger,
he had determined not to jump into the lion's mouth by meeting her at Mistletoe, that her chance
there was all over; then she remembered her age, her many seasons, the hard work of her toilet,
those tedious long and bitter quarrels with her mother, the ever-renewed trouble of her smiles,
the hopelessness of her future should she smile in vain to the last, and the countless miseries
of her endless visitings; and she remembered too the 1200 pounds a year that Morton had offered
to settle on her and the assurance of a home of her own though that home should be at Bragton.
For an hour or two she had almost given up the hope of Rufford and had meditated some letter
to her other lover which might at any rate secure him. But she had collected her courage sufficiently
to make that last appeal to the lord, which had been successful. Three weeks now might settle
all that and for three weeks it might still be possible so to manage her affairs that she might
fall back upon Patagonia as her last resource.

About this time Morton returned to Bragton, waiting however till he was assured that the Senator
had completed his visit to Dillsborough. He had been a little ashamed of the Senator in regard
to the great Goarly conflict and was not desirous of relieving his solitude by the presence
of the American. On this occasion he went quite alone and ordered no carriages from the Bush
and no increased establishment of servants. He certainly was not happy in his mind. The mission
to Patagonia was well paid, being worth with house and etceteras nearly 3000 pounds a year;
and it was great and quick promotion for one so young as himself. For one neither a lord nor
connected with a Cabinet Minister Patagonia was a great place at which to begin his career
as Plenipotentiary on his own bottom;-- but it is a long way off and has its drawbacks. He
could not look to be there for less than four years; and there was hardly reason why a man
in his position should expatriate himself to such a place for so long a time. He felt that
he should not have gone but for his engagement to Arabella Trefoil, and that neither would
he have gone had his engagement been solid and permanent. He was going in order that he might
be rid of that trouble, and a man's feelings in such circumstances cannot be satisfactory to
himself. However he had said that he would go, and he knew enough of himself to be certain
that having said so he would not alter his mind. But he was very melancholy and Mrs. Hopkins
declared to old Mrs. Twentyman that the young squire was "hipped,"--"along of his lady love,"
as she thought.

His hands had been so full of his visitors when at Bragton before, and he had been carried
off so suddenly to Rufford, and then had hurried up to London in such misery, that he had hardly
had time to attend to his own business. Mr. Masters had made a claim upon him since he had
been in England for 127l. 8s. 4d in reference to certain long-gone affairs in which the attorney
declared he had been badly treated by those who had administered the Morton estate. John Morton
had promised to look into the matter and to see Mr. Masters. He had partially looked into it
and now felt ashamed that he had not fully kept his promise. The old attorney had not had much
hope of getting his money. It was doubtful to himself whether he could make good his claim
against the Squire at law, and it was his settled purpose to make no such attempt although
he was quite sure that the money was his due. Indeed if Mr. Morton would not do anything further
in the matter, neither would he. He was almost too mild a man to be a successful lawyer, and
had a dislike to asking for money. Mr. Morton had promised to see him, but Mr. Morton had probably--forgotten
it. Some gentlemen seem apt to forget such promises.

Mr. Masters was somewhat surprised therefore when he was told one morning in his office that
Mr. Morton from Bragton wished to see him. He thought that it must be Reginald Morton, having
not heard that the Squire had returned to the country. But John Morton was shown into the office,
and the old attorney immediately arose from his arm-chair. Sundown was there, and was at once
sent out of the room. Sundown on such occasions was accustomed to retire to some settlement
seldom visited by the public which was called the back office. Nickem was away intent on unravelling
the Goarly mystery, and the attorney could ask his visitor to take a confidential seat. Mr.
Morton however had very little to say. He was full of apologies and at once handed out a cheque
for the sum demanded. The money was so much to the attorney that he was flurried by his own
success. "Perhaps," said Morton, "I ought in fairness to add interest"

"Not at all;--by no means. Lawyers never expect that. Really, Mr. Morton, I am very much obliged.
It was so long ago that I thought that perhaps you might think--"

"I do not doubt that it's all right"

"Yes, Mr. Morton--it is all right. It is quite right. But your coming in this way is quite
a compliment. I am so proud to see the owner of Bragton once more in this house. I respect
the family as I always did; and as for the money--"

"I am only sorry that it has been delayed so long. Good morning, Mr. Masters."

The attorney's affairs were in such a condition that an unexpected cheque for 127l. 8s. 4d.
sufficed to exhilarate him. It was as though the money had come down to him from the very skies.
As it happened Mary returned from Cheltenham on that same evening and the attorney felt that
if she had brought back with her an intention to be Mrs. Twentyman he could still be a happy
and contented man.

And there had been another trouble on John Morton's mind. He had received his cousin's card
but had not returned the visit while his grandmother had been at Bragton. Now he walked on
to Hoppet Hall and knocked at the door.--Yes;--Mr. Morton was at home, and then he was shown
into the presence of his cousin whom he had not seen since he was a boy. "I ought to have come
sooner," said the Squire, who was hardly at his ease.

"I heard you had a house full of people at Bragton."

"Just that,--and then I went off rather suddenly to the other side of the country; and then
I had to go up to London. Now I'm going to Patagonia."

"Patagonia! That's a long way off."

"We Foreign Office slaves have to be sent a long way off."

"But we heard, John," said Reginald, who did not feel it to be his duty to stand on any ceremony
with his younger cousin, "we heard that you were going to be married to Miss Trefoil. Are you
going to take a wife out to Patagonia?"

This was a question which he certainly had not expected. "I don't know how that may be," he
said frowning.

"We were told here in Dillsborough that it was all settled. I hope I haven't asked an improper
question."

"Of course people will talk."

"If it's only talk I beg pardon. Whatever concerns Bragton is interesting to me, and from the
way in which I heard this I thought it was a certainty. Patagonia;--well! You don't want an
assistant private secretary I suppose? I should like to see Patagonia."

"We are not allowed to appoint those gentlemen ourselves."

"And I suppose I should be too old to get in at the bottom. It seems a long way off for a man
who is the owner of Bragton."

"It is a long way."

"And what will you do with the old place?"

"There's no one to live there. If you were married you might perhaps take it" This was of course
said in joke, as old Mrs. Morton would have thought Bragton to be disgraced for ever, even
by such a proposition.

"You might let it."

"Who would take such a place for five years? I suppose old Mrs. Hopkins will remain, and that
it will become more and more desolate every year. I mustn't let the old house tumble down;
that's all." Then the Minister Plenipotentiary to Patagonia took his departure and walked back
to Bragton thinking of the publicity of his engagement. All Dillsborough had heard that he
was to be married to Miss Trefoil, and this cousin of his had been so sure of the fact that
he had not hesitated to ask a question about it in the first moment of their first interview.
Under such circumstances it would be better for him to go to Patagonia than to remain in England.

CHAPTER VI

The Beginning of persecution

When Mary Masters got up on the morning after her arrival she knew that she would have to endure
much on that day. Everybody had smiled on her the preceding evening, but the smiles were of
a nature which declared themselves to be preparatory to some coming event. The people around
her were gracious on the presumption that she was going to do as they wished, and would be
quite prepared to withdraw their smiles should she prove to be contumacious. Mary, as she crept
down in the morning, understood all this perfectly. She found her stepmother alone in the parlour
and was at once attacked with the all important question. "My dear, I hope you have made up
your mind about Mr. Twentyman."

"There were to be two months, mamma."

"That's nonsense, Mary. Of course you must know what you mean to tell him." Mary thought that
she did know, but was not at the present moment disposed to make known her knowledge and therefore
remained silent. "You should remember how much this is to your papa and me and should speak
out at once. Of course you need not tell Mr. Twentyman till the end of the time unless you like it"

"I thought I was to be left alone for two months."

"Mary, that is wicked. When your papa has so many things to think of and so much to provide
for, you should be more thoughtful of him. Of course he will want to be prepared to give you
what things will be necessary." Mrs. Masters had not as yet heard of Mr. Morton's cheque, and
perhaps would not hear of it till her husband's bank book fell into her hands. The attorney
had lately found it necessary to keep such matters to himself when it was possible, as otherwise
he was asked for explanations which it was not always easy for him to give. "You know," continued
Mrs. Masters, "how hard your father finds it to get money as it is wanted."

"I don't want anything, mamma."

"You must want things if you are to be married in March or April."

"But I shan't be married in March or April. Oh, mamma, pray don't."

"In a week's time or so you must tell Larry. After all that has passed of course he won't expect
to have to wait long, and you can't ask him. Kate my dear,"--Kate had just entered the room,
"go into the office and tell your father to come into breakfast in five minutes. You must know,
Mary, and I insist on your telling me."

"When I said two months,--only it was he said two months--"

"What difference does it make, my dear?"

"It was only because he asked me to put it off. I knew it could make no difference."

"Do you mean to tell me, Mary, that you are going to refuse him after all?"

"I can't help it," said Mary, bursting out into tears.

"Can't help it! Did anybody ever see such an idiot since girls were first created? Not help
it, after having given him as good as a promise! You must help it. You must be made to help it"

There was an injustice in this which nearly killed poor Mary. She had been persuaded among
them to put off her final decision, not because she had any doubt in her own mind, but at their
request, and now she was told that in granting this delay she had "given as good as a promise!"
And her stepmother also had declared that she "must be made to help it,"--or in other words
be made to marry Mr. Twentyman in opposition to her own wishes! She was quite sure that no
human being could have such right of compulsion over her. Her father would not attempt it,
and it was, after all, to her father alone, that she was bound by duty. At the moment she could
make no reply, and then her father with the two girls came in from the office.

The attorney was still a little radiant with his triumph about the cheque and was also pleased
with his own discernment in the matter of Goarly. He had learned that morning from Nickem that
Goarly had consented to take 7s. 6d. an acre from Lord Rufford and was prepared to act "quite
the honourable part" on behalf of his lordship. Nickem had seemed to think that the triumph
would not end here, but had declined to make any very definite statements. Nickem clearly fancied
that he had been doing great things himself, and that he might be allowed to have a little
mystery. But the attorney took great credit to himself in that he had rejected Goarly's case,
and had been employed by Lord Rufford in lieu of Goarly. When he entered the parlour he had
for the moment forgotten Larry Twentyman, and was disposed to greet his girl lovingly;--but
he found her dissolved in bitter tears. "Mary, my darling, what is it ails you?" he said.

"Never mind about your darling now, but come to breakfast. She is giving, herself airs,--as usual."

But Mary never did give herself airs and her father could not endure the accusation. "She would
not be crying," he said, "unless she had something to cry for."

"Pray don't make a fuss about things you don't understand," said his wife. "Mary, are you coming
to the table? If not you had better go up-stairs. I hate such ways, and I won't have them.
This comes of Ushanting! I knew what it would be. The place for girls is to stay at home and
mind their work,--till they have got houses of their own to look after. That's what I intend
my girls to do. There's nothing on earth so bad for girls as that twiddle-your-thumbs visiting
about when they think they've nothing to do but to show what sort of ribbons and gloves they've
got. Now, Dolly, if you've got any hands will you cut the bread for your father? Mary's a deal
too fine a lady to do anything but sit there and rub her eyes." After that the breakfast was
eaten in silence.

When the meal was over Mary followed her father into the office and said that she wanted to
speak to him. When Sundown had disappeared she told her tale. "Papa," she said, "I am so sorry,
but I can't do what you want about Mr. Twentyman."

"Is it so, Mary?"

"Don't be angry with me, papa."

"Angry! No;--I won't be angry. I should be very sorry to be angry with my girl. But what you
tell me will make us all very unhappy;-- very unhappy indeed. What will you say to Lawrence
Twentyman?"

"What I said before, papa."

"But he is quite certain now that you mean to take him. Of course we were all certain when
you only wanted a few more days to think of it." Mary felt this to be the cruellest thing of
all. "When he asked me I said I wouldn't pledge you, but I certainly had no doubt. What is
the matter, Mary?"

She could understand that a girl might be asked why she wanted to marry a man, and that in
such a condition she ought to be able to give a reason; but it was she thought very hard that
she should be asked why she didn't want to marry a man. "I suppose, papa," she said after a
pause, "I don't like him in that way."

"Your mamma will be sure to say that it is because you went to Lady Ushant's."

And so in part it was,--as Mary herself very well knew; though Lady Ushant herself had had
nothing to do with it. "Lady Ushant," she said, "would be very well pleased,--if she thought
that I liked him well enough."

"Did you tell Lady Ushant?"

"Yes; I told her all about it,--and how you would all be pleased. And I did try to bring myself
to it. Papa,--pray, pray don't want to send me away from you."

"You would be so near to us all at Chowton Farm!"

"I am nearer here, papa." Then she embraced him, and he in a manner yielded to her. He yielded
to her so far as to part with her at the present moment with soft loving words.

Mrs. Masters had a long conversation with her husband on the subject that same day, and condescended
even to say a few words to the two girls. She had her own theory and her own plan in the present
emergency. According to her theory girls shouldn't be indulged in any vagaries, and this rejecting
of a highly valuable suitor was a most inexcusable vagary. And, if her plan were followed,
a considerable amount of wholesome coercion would at once be exercised towards this refractory
young woman. There was in fact more than a fortnight wanting to the expiration of Larry's two
months, and Mrs. Masters was strongly of opinion that if Mary were put into a sort of domestic
"coventry" during this period, if she were debarred from friendly intercourse with the family
and made to feel that such wickedness as hers, if continued, would make her an outcast, then
she would come round and accept Larry Twentyman before the end of the time. But this plan could
not be carried out without her husband's co-operation. Were she to attempt it single-handed,
Mary would take refuge in her father's softness of heart and there would simply be two parties
in the household. "If you would leave her to me and not speak to her, it would be all right,"
Mrs. Masters said to her husband.

"Not speak to her!"

"Not cosset her and spoil her for the next week or two. Just leave her to herself and let her
feel what she's doing. Think what Chowton Farm would be, and you with your business all slipping
through your fingers."

"I don't know that it's slipping through my fingers at all," said the attorney mindful of his
recent successes.

"If you mean to say you don't care about it--!"

"I do care about it very much. You know I do. You ought not to talk to me in that way."

"Then why won't you be said by me? Of course if you cocker her up, she'll think she's to have
her own way like a grand lady. She don't like him because he works for his bread,--that's what
it is; and because she's been taught by that old woman to read poetry. I never knew that stuff
do any good to anybody. I hate them fandangled lines that are all cut up short to make pretence.
If she wants to read why can't she take the cookery book and learn something useful? It just
comes to this;--if you want her to marry Larry Twentyman you had better not notice her for
the next fortnight. Let her go and come and say nothing to her. She'll think about it, if she's
left to herself."

The attorney did want his daughter to marry the man and was half convinced by his wife. He
could not bring himself to be cruel and felt that his heart would bleed every hour of the day
that he separated himself from his girl;--but still he thought that he might perhaps best in
this way bring about a result which would be so manifestly for her advantage. It might be that
the books of poetry and the modes of thought which his wife described as "Ushanting" were of
a nature to pervert his girl's mind from the material necessities of life and that a little
hardship would bring her round to a more rational condition. With a very heavy heart he consented
to do his part,--which was to consist mainly of silence. Any words which might be considered
expedient were to come from his wife.

Three or four days went on in this way, which were days of absolute misery to Mary. She soon
perceived and partly understood her father's silence. She knew at any rate that for the present
she was debarred from his confidence. Her mother did not say much, but what she did say was
all founded on the theory that Ushanting and softness in general are very bad for young women.
Even Dolly and Kate were hard to her,--each having some dim idea that Mary was to be coerced
towards Larry Twentyman and her own good. At the end of that time, when Mary had been at home
nearly a week, Larry came as usual on the Saturday evening. She, well knowing his habit, took
care to be out of the way. Larry, with a pleasant face, asked after her, and expressed a hope
that she had enjoyed herself at Cheltenham.

"A nasty idle place where nobody does anything as I believe," said Mrs. Masters. Larry received
a shock from the tone of the lady's voice. He had allowed himself to think that all his troubles
were now nearly over, but the words and the voice frightened him. He had told himself that
he was not to speak of his love again till the two months were over, and like an honourable
man he was prepared to wait the full time. He would not now have come to the attorney's house
but that he knew the attorney would wait for him before going over to the club. He had no right
to draw deductions till the time should be up. But he could not help his own feelings and was
aware that his heart sank within him when he was told that Cheltenham was a nasty idle place.
Abuse of Cheltenham at the present moment was in fact abuse of Mary;--and the one sin which
Mary could commit was persistence in her rejection of his suit. But he determined to be a man
as he walked across the street with his old friend, and said not a word about his love. "They
tell me that Goarly has taken his 7s. 6d., Mr. Masters."

"Of course he has taken it, Larry. The worse luck for me. If he had gone on I might have had
a bill against his Lordship as long as my arm. Now it won't be worth looking after."

"I'm sure you're very glad, Mr. Masters."

"Well; yes; I am glad. I do hate to see a fellow like that who hasn't got a farthing of his
own, propped up from behind just to annoy his betters."

"They say that Bearside got a lot of money out of that American."

"I suppose he got something."

"What an idiot that man must be. Can you understand it, Mr. Masters?"

They now entered the club and Goarly and Nickem and Scrobby were of course being discussed.
"Is it true, Mr. Masters, that Scrobby is to be arrested?" asked Fred Botsey at once.

"Upon my word I can't say, Mr. Botsey; but if you tell me it is so I shan't cry my eyes out"

"I thought you would have known"

"A gentleman may know a thing, Mr. Botsey," said the landlord, "and not exactly choose to tell it."

"I didn't suppose there was any secret," said the brewer. As Mr. Masters made no further remark
it was of course conceived that he knew all about it and he was therefore treated with some
increased deference. But there was on that night great triumph in the club as it was known
as a fact that Goarly had withdrawn his claim, and that the American Senator had paid his money
for nothing. It was moreover very generally believed that Goarly was going to turn evidence
against Scrobby in reference to the poison.

CHAPTER VII

Mary's Letter

The silent system in regard to Mary was carried on in the attorney's house for a week, during
which her sufferings were very great. From the first she made up her mind to oppose her stepmother's
cruelty by sheer obstinacy. She had been told that she must be made to marry Mr. Twentyman,
and the injustice of that threat had at once made her rebel against her stepmother's authority.
She would never allow her stepmother to make her marry any one. She put herself into a state
of general defiance and said as little as was said to her. But her father's silence to her
nearly broke her heart. On one or two occasions, as opportunity offered itself to her, she
said little soft words to him in privacy. Then he would partly relent, would kiss her and bid
her be a good girl, and would quickly hurry away from her. She could understand that he suffered
as well as herself, and she perhaps got some consolation from the conviction. At last, on the
following Saturday she watched her opportunity and brought to him when he was alone in his
office a letter which she had written to Larry Twentyman. "Papa," she said, "would you read
that?" He took and read the letter, which was as follows:--

My Dear Mr. Twentyman,

Something was said about two months which are now very nearly over. I think I ought to save
you from the trouble of coming to me again by telling you in a letter that it cannot be as
you would have it. I have thought of it a great deal and have of course been anxious to do
as my friends wish. And I am very grateful to you, and know how good and how kind you are.
And I would do anything for you,-- except this. But it never can be. I should not write like
this unless I were quite certain. I hope you won't be angry with me and think that I should
have spared you the trouble of doubting so long. I know now that I ought not to have doubted
at all; but I was so anxious not to seem to be obstinate that I became foolish about it when
you asked me. What I say now is quite certain.

Dear Mr. Twentyman, I shall always think of you with esteem and regard, because I know how
good you are; and I hope you will come to like somebody a great deal better than me who will
always love you with her whole heart.

                         Yours very truly,
                           Mary Masters.

P.S. I shall show this letter to papa.

Mr. Masters read it as she stood by him,--and then read it again very slowly rubbing one hand
over the other as he did so. He was thinking what he should do;--or rather what he should say.
The idea of stopping the letter never occurred to him.

If she chose to refuse the man of course she must do so; and perhaps, if she did refuse him,
there was no way better than this. "Must it be so, Mary?" he said at last.

"Yes, papa."

"But why?"

"Because I do not love him as I should have to love any man that I wanted to marry. I have
tried it, because you wished it, but I cannot do it"

"What will mamma say?"

"I am thinking more, papa, of you," she said putting her arm over his shoulder. "You have always
been so good to me, and so kind!" Here his heart misgave him, for he felt that during the last
week he had not been kind to her. "But you would not wish me to give myself to a man and then
not to care for him."

"No, my dear."

"I couldn't do it. I should fall down dead first. I have thought so much about it,--for your
sake; and have tried it with myself. I couldn't do it"

"Is there anybody else, Mary?" As he asked the question he held her hand beneath his own on
the desk, but he did not dare to look into her face. He had been told by his wife that there
was somebody else; that the girl's mind was running upon Mr. Surtees, because Mr. Surtees was
a gentleman. He was thinking of Mr. Surtees, and certainly not of Reginald Morton.

To her the moment was very solemn and when the question was asked she felt that she could not
tell her father a falsehood. She had gradually grown bold enough to assure herself that her
heart was occupied with that man who had travelled with her to Cheltenham; and she felt that
that feeling alone must keep her apart from any other love. And yet, as she had no hope, as
she had assured herself that her love was a burden to be borne and could never become a source
of enjoyment, why should her secret be wrested from her? What good would such a violation do?
But she could not tell the falsehood, and therefore she held her tongue.

Gradually he looked up into her face, still keeping her hand pressed on the desk under his.
It was his left hand that so guarded her, while she stood by his right shoulder. Then he gently
wound his right arm round her waist and pressed her to him. "Mary," he said, "if it is so,
had you not better tell me?" But she was sure that she had better not mention that name even
to him. It was impossible that she should mention it. She would have outraged to herself her
own maiden modesty by doing so. "Is it,"--he asked very softly,--"is it Surtees?"

"Oh no!" she said quickly, almost escaping from the grasp of his arm in her start.

Then he was absolutely at a loss. Beyond Mr. Surtees or Larry Twentyman he did not know what
possible lover Dillsborough could have afforded. And yet the very rapidity of her answer when
the curate's name had been mentioned had convinced him that there was some other person,--had
increased the strength of that conviction which her silence had produced. "Have you nothing
that you can tell me, Mary?"

"No, papa." Then he gave her back the letter and she left the room without another word. Of
course his sanction to the letter had now been given, and it was addressed to Chowton Farm
and posted before half an hour was over. She saw him again in the afternoon of the same day
and asked him to tell her stepmother what she had done. "Mamma ought to know," she said.

"But you haven't sent it"

"Yes, papa;--it is in the post"

Then it occurred to him that his wife would tell him that he should have prevented the sending
of the letter,--that he should have destroyed it and altogether taken the matter with a high
hand. "You can't tell her yourself?" he asked.

"I would rather you did. Mamma has been so hard to me since I came home."

He did tell his wife and she overwhelmed him by the violence of her reproaches. He could never
have been in earnest, or he would not have allowed such a letter as that to pass through his
hands. He must be afraid of his own child. He did not know his own duty. He had been deceiving
her,--his wife,--from first to last. Then she threw herself into a torrent of tears declaring
that she had been betrayed. There had been a conspiracy between them, and now everything might
go to the dogs, and she would not lift up her hands again to save them. But before the evening
came round she was again on the alert, and again resolved that she would not even yet give
way. What was there in a letter more than in a spoken word? She would tell Larry to disregard
the letter. But first she made a futile attempt to clutch the letter from the guardianship
of the Post Office, and she went to the Postmaster assuring him that there had been a mistake
in the family, that a wrong letter had been put into a wrong envelope, and begging that the
letter addressed to Mr. Twentyman might be given back to her. The Postmaster, half vacillating
in his desire to oblige a neighbour, produced the letter and Mrs. Masters put out her hand
to grasp it; but the servant of the public,--who had been thoroughly grounded in his duties
by one of those trusty guardians of our correspondence who inspect and survey our provincial
post offices,--remembered himself at the last moment and expressing the violence of his regret,
replaced the letter in the box. Mrs. Masters, in her anger and grief, condescended to say very
hard things to her neighbour; but the man remembered his duty and was firm.

On that evening Larry Twentyman did not attend the Dillsborough Club, having in the course
of the week notified to the attorney that he should be a defaulter. Mr. Masters himself went
over earlier than usual, his own house having become very uncomfortable to him. Mrs. Masters
for an hour sat expecting that Larry would come, and when the evening passed away without his
appearance, she was convinced that the unusual absence was a part of the conspiracy against her.

Larry did not get his letter till the Monday morning. On the last Thursday and Saturday he
had consoled himself for his doubts with the U.R.U., and was minded to do so on the Monday
also. He had not gone to the club on Saturday and had moped about Chowton all the Sunday in
a feverish state because of his doubts. It seemed to him that the two months would never be
over. On the Monday he was out early on the farm and then came down in his boots and breeches,
and had his red coat ready at the fire while he sat at breakfast. The meet was fifteen miles
off and he had sent on his hunter, intending to travel thither in his dog cart. Just as he
was cutting himself a slice of beef the postman came, and of course he read his letter. He
read it with the carving knife in his hand, and then he stood gazing at his mother. "What is
it, Larry?" she asked; "is anything wrong?"

"Wrong,--well; I don't know," he said. "I don't know what you call wrong. I shan't hunt; that's
all." Then he threw aside the knife and pushed away his plate and marched out of the room with
the open letter in his hand.

Mrs. Twentyman knew very well of his love,--as indeed did nearly all Dillsborough; but she
had heard nothing of the two months and did not connect the letter with Mary Masters. Surely
he must have lost a large sum of money. That was her idea till she saw him again late in the
afternoon.

He never went near the hounds that day or near his business. He was not then man enough for
either. But he walked about the fields, keeping out of sight of everybody. It was all over
now. It must be all over when she wrote to him a letter like that. Why had she tempted him
to thoughts of happiness and success by that promise of two months' grace? He supposed that
he was not good enough;--or that she thought he was not good enough. Then he remembered his
acres, and his material comforts, and tried to console himself by reflecting that Mary Masters
might very well do worse in the world. But there was no consolation in it. He had tried his
best because he had really loved the girl. He had failed, and all the world,-- all his world,
would know that he had failed. There was not a man in the club,--hardly a man in the hunt,--who
was not aware that he had offered to Mary Masters. During the last two months he had not been
so reticent as was prudent, and had almost boasted to Fred Botsey of success. And then how
was he to live at Chowton Farm without Mary Masters as his wife? As he returned home he almost
made up his mind that he would not continue to live at Chowton Farm.

He came back through Dillsborough Wood; and there, prowling about, he met Goarly. "Well, Mr.
Twentyman," said the man, "I am making it all straight now with his Lordship."

"I don't care what you're doing," said Larry in his misery. "You are an infernal blackguard
and that's the best of you."

CHAPTER VIII

Chowton Farm for Sale.

John Morton had returned to town soon after his walk into Dillsborough and had there learned
from different sources that both Arabella Trefoil and Lord Rufford had gone or were going to
Mistletoe. He had seen Lord Augustus who, though he could tell him nothing else about his daughter,
had not been slow to inform him that she was going to the house of her noble uncle. When Morton
had spoken to him very seriously about the engagement he declared that he knew nothing about
it,--except that he had given his consent if the settlements were all right. Lady Augustus
managed all that. Morton had then said that under those circumstances he feared he must regard
the honour which he had hoped to enjoy as being beyond his reach. Lord Augustus had shrugged
his shoulders and had gone back to his whist, this interview having taken place in the strangers'
room of his club. That Lord Rufford was also going to Mistletoe he heard from young Glossop
at the Foreign Office. It was quite possible that Glossop had been instructed to make this
known to Morton by his sister Lady Penwether. Then Morton declared that the thing was over
and that he would trouble himself no more about it. But this resolution did not make him at
all contented, and in his misery he went again down to his solitude at Bragton.

And now when he might fairly consider himself to be free, and when he should surely have congratulated
himself on a most lucky escape from the great danger into which he had fallen, his love and
admiration for the girl returned to him in a most wonderful manner. He thought of her beauty
and her grace, and the manner in which she would sit at the head of his table when the time
should come for him to be promoted to some great capital. To him she had fascinations which
the reader, who perhaps knows her better than he ever did, will not share. He could forgive
the coldness of her conduct to himself--he himself not being by nature demonstrative or impassioned,--if
only she were not more kind to any rival. It was the fact that she should be visiting at the
same house with Lord Rufford after what he had seen at Rufford Hall which had angered him.
But now in his solitude he thought that he might have been wrong at Rufford Hall. If it were
the case that the girl feared that her marriage might be prevented by the operations of lawyers
and family friends, of course she would be right not to throw herself into his arms,--even
metaphorically. He was a cold, just man who, when he had loved, could not easily get rid of
his love, and now he would ask himself whether he was not hard upon the girl. It was natural
that she should be at Mistletoe; but then why should Lord Rufford be there with her?

His prospects at Patagonia did not console him much. No doubt it was a handsome mission for
a man of his age and there were sundry Patagonian questions of importance at the present moment
which would give him a certain weight. Patagonia was repudiating a loan, and it was hoped that
he might induce a better feeling in the Patagonian Parliament. There was the Patagonian railway
for joining the Straits to the Cape the details of which he was now studying with great diligence.
And then there was the vital question of boundary between Patagonia and the Argentine Republic
by settling which, should he be happy enough to succeed in doing so, he would prevent the horrors
of warfare. He endeavoured to fix his mind with satisfaction on these great objects as he pored
over the reports and papers which had been heaped upon him since. he had accepted the mission.
But there was present to him always a feeling that the men at the Foreign Office had been glad
to get any respectable diplomate to go to Patagonia, and that his brethren in the profession
had marvelled at his acceptance of such a mission. One never likes to be thanked over much
for doing anything. It creates a feeling that one has given more than was expedient. He knew
that he must now go to Patagonia, but he repented the alacrity with which he had acceded to
the proposition. Whether he did marry Arabella Trefoil or whether he did not, there was no
adequate reason for such a banishment. And yet he could not now escape it!

It was on a Monday morning that Larry Twentyman had found himself unable to go hunting. On
the Tuesday he gave his workmen about the farm such a routing as they had not received for
many a month. There had not been a dung heap or a cowshed which he had not visited, nor a fence
about the place with which he had not found fault. He was at it all day, trying thus to console
himself, but in vain; and when his mother in the evening said some word of her misery in regard
to the turkeys he had told her that as far as he was concerned Goarly might poison every fox
in the county. Then the poor woman knew that matters were going badly with her son. On the
Wednesday, when the hounds met within two miles of Chowton, he again stayed at home; but in
the afternoon he rode into Dillsborough and contrived to see the attorney without being seen
by any of the ladies of the family. The interview did not seem to do him any good. On the Thursday
morning he walked across to Bragton and with a firm voice asked to see the Squire. Morton who
was deep in the boundary question put aside his papers and welcomed his neighbour.

Now it must be explained that when, in former years, his son's debts had accumulated on old
Mr. Reginald Morton, so that he had been obliged to part with some portion of his unentailed
property, he had sold that which lay in the parish of St. John's, Dillsborough. The lands in
Bragton and Mallingham he could not sell; but Chowton Farm which was in St. John's had been
bought by Larry Twentyman's grandfather. For a time there had been some bitterness of feeling;
but the Twentymans had been well-to-do respectable people, most anxious to be good neighbours,
and had gradually made themselves liked by the owner of Bragton. The present Squire had of
course known nothing of Chowton as a part of the Morton property, and had no more desire for
it than for any of Lord Rufford's acres which were contiguous to his own. He shook hands cordially
with his neighbour, as though this visit were the most natural thing in the world, and asked
some questions about Goarly and the hunt.

"I believe that'll all come square, Mr. Morton. I'm not interesting myself much about it now."
Larry was not dressed like himself. He had on a dark brown coat, and dark pantaloons and a
chimney-pot hat. He was conspicuous generally for light-coloured close-fitting garments and
for a billycock hat. He was very unlike his usual self on the present occasion.

"I thought you were just the man who did interest himself about those things."

"Well; yes; once it was so, Mr. Morton. What I've got to say now, Mr. Morton, is this. Chowton
Farm is in the market! But I wouldn't say a word to any one about it till you had had the offer."

"You going to sell Chowton!"

"Yes, Mr. Morton, I am."

"From all I have heard of you I wouldn't have believed it if anybody else had told me."

"It's a fact, Mr. Morton. There are three hundred and twenty acres. I put the rental at 30s.
an acre. You know what you get, Mr. Morton, for the land that lies next to it. And I think
twenty-eight years' purchase isn't more than it's worth. Those are my ideas as to price, Mr.
Morton. There isn't a halfpenny owing on it--not in the way of mortgage."

"I dare say it's worth that"

"Up at auction I might get a turn more, Mr. Morton;--but those are my ideas at present"

John Morton who was a man of business went to work at once with his pencil and in two minutes
had made out a total. "I don't know that I could put my hand on 14,000 pounds even if I were
minded to make the purchase."

"That needn't stand in the way, sir. Any part you please could lie on mortgage at 4.5 per cent"
Larry in the midst of his distress had certain clear ideas about business.

"This is a very serious proposition, Mr. Twentyman."

"Yes, indeed, sir."

"Have you any other views in life?"

"I can't say as I have any fixed. I shan't be idle, Mr. Morton. I never was idle. I was thinking
perhaps of New Zealand."

"A very fine colony for a young man, no doubt. But, seeing how well you are established here--."

"I can't stay here, Mr. Morton. I've made up my mind about that. There are things which a man
can't bear,--not and live quiet. As for hunting, I don't care about it any more than--nothing."

"I am sorry that anything should have made you so unhappy."

"Well;--I am unhappy. That's about the truth of it. And I always shall be unhappy here. There's
nothing else for it but going away."

"If it's anything sudden, Mr. Twentyman, allow me to say that you ought not to sell your property
without grave consideration."

"I have considered it,--very grave, Mr. Morton."

"Ah,--but I mean long consideration. Take a year to think of it. You can't buy such a place
back in a year. I don't know you well enough to be justified in inquiring into the circumstances
of your trouble;--but unless it be something which makes it altogether inexpedient, or almost
impossible that you should remain in the neighbourhood, you should not sell Chowton."

"I'll tell you, Mr. Morton," said Larry almost weeping. Poor Larry whether in his triumph or
his sorrow had no gift of reticence and now told his neighbour the whole story of his love.
He was certain it had become quite hopeless. He was sure that she would never have written
him a letter if there had been any smallest chance left. According to his ideas a girl might
say "no" half-a-dozen times and yet not mean much; but when she had committed herself to a
letter she could not go back from it.

"Is there anybody else?" asked Morton.

"Not as I know. I never saw anything like--like lightness with her, with any man. They said
something about the curate but I don't believe a word of it."

"And the family approve of it?"

"Every one of them,--father and stepmother and sisters and all. My own mother too! There ain't
a ha'porth against it. I don't want any one to give me sixpence in money. And she should live
just like a lady. I can keep a servant for her to cook and do every mortal thing. But it ain't
nothing of all that, Mr. Morton."

"What is it then?"

The poor man paused before he made his answer; but when he did, he made it plain enough. "I
ain't good enough for her! Nor more I ain't, Mr. Morton. She was brought up in this house,
Mr. Morton, by your own grand-aunt."

"So I have heard, Mr. Twentyman."

"And there's more of Bragton than there is of Dillsborough about her; that's just where it
is. I know what I am and I know what she is, and I ain't good enough for her. It should be
somebody that can talk books to her. I can tell her how to plant a field of wheat or how to
run a foal;--but I can't sit and read poetry, nor yet be read to. There's plenty of 'em would
sell themselves because the land's all there, and the house, and the things in it. What makes
me mad is that I should love her all the better because she won't. My belief is, Mr. Morton,
they're as poor as job. That makes no difference to me because I don't want it; but it makes
no difference to her neither! She's right, Mr. Morton. I'm not good enough, and so I'll just
cut it as far as Dillsborough is concerned. You'll think of what I said of taking the land?"

Mr. Morton said much more to him, walking with him to the gate of Chowton Farm. He assured
him that the young lady might yet be won. He had only, Morton said, to plead his case to her
as well as he had pleaded up at Bragton and he thought that she would be won. "I couldn't speak
out free to her,--not if it was to save the whole place," said the unfortunate lover. But Morton
still continued his advice. As to leaving Chowton because a young lady refused him, that would
be unmanly--"There isn't a bit of a man left about me," said Larry weeping. Morton nevertheless
went on. Time would cure these wounds; but no time would give him back Chowton should he once
part with it. If he must leave the place for a time let him put a caretaker on the farm, even
though by doing so the loss might be great. He should do anything rather than surrender his
house. As to buying the land himself, Morton would not talk about it in the present circumstances.
Then they parted at Chowton gate with many expressions of friendship on each side.

John Morton, as he returned home, could not help thinking that the young farmer's condition
was after all better than his own. There was an honesty about both the persons concerned of
which at any rate they might be proud. There was real love,--and though that love was not at
present happy it was of a nature to inspire perfect respect. But in his own case he was sure
of nothing.

CHAPTER IX

Mistletoe

When Arabella Trefoil started from London for Mistletoe, with no companion but her own maid,
she had given more serious consideration to her visit than she had probably ever paid to any
matter up to that time. She had often been much in earnest but never so much in earnest as
now. Those other men had perhaps been worthy, worthy as far as her ideas went of worth, but
none of them so worthy as this man. Everything was there if she could only get it;--money,
rank, fashion, and an appetite for pleasure. And he was handsome too, and good-humoured, though
these qualities told less with her than the others. And now she was to meet him in the house
of her great relations,--in a position in which her rank and her fashion would seem to be equal
to his own. And she would meet him with the remembrance fresh in his mind as in her own of
those passages of love at Rufford. It would be impossible that he should even seem to forget
them. The most that she could expect would be four or five days of his company, and she knew
that she must be upon her mettle. She must do more now than she had ever attempted before.
She must scruple at nothing that might bind him. She would be in the house of her uncle and
that uncle a duke, and she thought that those facts might help to quell him. And she would
be there without her mother, who was so often a heavy incubus on her shoulders. She thought
of it all, and made her plans carefully and even painfully. She would be at any rate two days
in the house before his arrival. During that time she would curry favour with her uncle by
all her arts, and would if possible reconcile herself to her aunt. She thought once of taking
her aunt into her full confidence and balanced the matter much in her mind. The Duchess, she
knew, was afraid of her,--or rather afraid of the relationship, and would of course be pleased
to have all fears set at rest by such an alliance. But her aunt was a woman who had never suffered
hardships, whose own marriage had been easily arranged, and whose two daughters had been pleasantly
married before they were twenty years old. She had had no experience of feminine difficulties,
and would have no mercy for such labours as those to which her less fortunate niece was driven.
It would have been a great thing to have the cordial co-operation of her aunt; but she could
not venture to ask for it.

She had stretched her means and her credit to the utmost in regard to her wardrobe, and was
aware that she had never been so well equipped since those early days of her career in which
her father and mother had thought that her beauty, assisted by a generous expenditure, would
serve to dispose of her without delay. A generous expenditure may be incurred once even by
poor people, but cannot possibly be maintained over a dozen years. Now she had taken the matter
into her own hands and had done that which would be ruinous if not successful. She was venturing
her all upon the die,--with the prospect of drowning herself on the way out to Patagonia should
the chances of the game go against her. She forgot nothing. She could hardly hope for more
than one day's hunting and yet that had been provided for as though she were going to ride
with the hounds through all the remainder of the season.

When she reached Mistletoe there were people going and coming every day, so that an arrival
was no event. She was kissed by her uncle and welcomed with characteristic coldness by her
aunt, then allowed to settle in among the other guests as though she had been there all the
winter. Everybody knew that she was a Trefoil and her presence therefore raised no question.
The Duchess of Omnium was among the guests. The Duchess knew all about her and vouchsafed to
her the smallest possible recognition. Lady Chiltern had met her before, and as Lady Chiltern
was always generous, she was gracious to Arabella. She was sorry to see Lady Drummond, because
she connected Lady Drummond with the Foreign Office and feared that the conversation might
be led to Patagonia and its new minister. She contrived to squeeze her uncle's hand and to
utter a word of warm thanks,--which his grace did not perfectly understand. The girl was his
niece and the Duke had an idea that he should be kind to the family of which he was the head.
His brother's wife had become objectionable to him, but as to the girl, if she wanted a home
for a week or two, he thought it to be his duty to give it to her.

Mistletoe is an enormous house with a frontage nearly a quarter of a mile long, combining as
it does all the offices, coach houses, and stables. There is nothing in England more ugly or
perhaps more comfortable. It stands in a huge park which, as it is quite flat, never shows
its size and is altogether unattractive. The Duke himself was a hospitable, easy man who was
very fond of his dinner and performed his duties well; but could never be touched by any sentiment.
He always spent six months in the country, in which he acted as landlord to a great crowd of
shooting, hunting, and flirting visitors, and six in London, in which he gave dinners and dined
out and regularly took his place in the House of Lords without ever opening his mouth. He was
a grey-haired comely man of sixty, with a large body and a wonderful appetite. By many who
understood the subject he was supposed to be the best amateur judge of wine in England. His
son Lord Mistletoe was member for the county and as the Duke had no younger sons he was supposed
to be happy at all points. Lord Mistletoe, who had a large family of his own, lived twenty
miles off,--so that the father and son could meet pleasantly without fear of quarrelling.

During the first evening Arabella did contrive to make herself very agreeable. She was much
quieter than had been her wont when at Mistletoe before, and though there were present two
or three very well circumstanced young men she took but little notice of them. She went out
to dinner with Sir Jeffrey Bunker, and made herself agreeable to that old gentleman in a remarkable
manner. After dinner, something having been said of the respectable old game called cat's cradle,
she played it to perfection with Sir Jeffrey, till her aunt thought that she must have been
unaware that Sir Jeffrey had a wife and family. She was all smiles and all pleasantness, and
seemed to want no other happiness than what the present moment gave her. Nor did she once mention
Lord Rufford's name.

On the next morning after breakfast her aunt sent for her to come up-stairs. Such a thing had
never happened to her before. She could not recollect that, on any of those annual visits which
she had made to Mistletoe for more years than she now liked to think of, she had ever had five
minutes' conversation alone with her aunt. It had always seemed that she was to be allowed
to come and go by reason of her relationship, but that she was to receive no special mark of
confidence or affection. The message was whispered into her ear by her aunt's own woman as
she was listening with great attention to Lady Drummond's troubles in regard to her nursery
arrangements. She nodded her head, heard a few more words from Lady Drummond, and then, with
a pretty apology and a statement made so that all should hear her, that her aunt wanted her,
followed the maid up-stairs. "My dear," said her aunt, when the door was closed, "I want to
ask you whether you would like me to ask Mr. Morton to come here while you are with us?" A
thunderbolt at her feet could hardly have surprised or annoyed her more. If there was one thing
that she wanted less than another it was the presence of the Paragon at Mistletoe. It would
utterly subvert everything and rob her of every chance. With a great effort she restrained
all emotion and simply shook her head. She did it very well, and betrayed nothing. "I ask,"
said the Duchess, "because I have been very glad to hear that you are engaged to marry him.
Lord Drummond tells me that he is a most respectable young man."

"Mr. Morton will be so much obliged to Lord Drummond."

"And I thought that if it were so, you would be glad that he should meet you here. I could
manage it very well, as the Drummonds are here, and Lord Drummond would be glad to meet him."

They had not been above a minute or two together, and Arabella had been called upon to expend
her energy in suppressing any expression of her horror; but still, by the time that she was
called on to speak, she had fabricated her story. "Thanks, aunt; it is so good of you; and
if everything was going straight, there would be nothing of course that I should like so much."

"You are engaged to him?"

"Well; I was going to tell you. I dare say it is not his fault; but papa and mamma and the
lawyers think that he is not behaving well about money;--settlements and all that. I suppose
it will all come right; but in the meantime perhaps I had better not meet him."

"But you were engaged to him?"

This had to be answered without pause. "Yes," said Arabella; "I was engaged to him."

"And he is going out almost immediately?"

"He is going, I know."

"I suppose you will go with him?"

This was very hard. She could not say that she certainly was not going with him. And yet she
had to remember that her coming campaign with Lord Rufford must be carried on in part beneath
her aunt's eyes. When she had come to Mistletoe she had fondly hoped that none of the family
there would know anything about Mr. Morton. And now she was called upon to answer these horrid
questions without a moment's notice! "I don't think I shall go with him, aunt; though I am
unable to say anything certain just at present. If he behaves badly of course the engagement
must be off."

"I hope not. You should think of it very seriously. As for money, you know, you have none of
your own, and I am told that he has a very nice property in Rufford. There is a neighbour of
his coming here to-morrow, and perhaps he knows him."

"Who is the neighbour, aunt?" asked Arabella, innocently.

"Lord Rufford. He is coming to shoot. I will ask him about the property."

"Pray don't mention my name, aunt. It would be so unpleasant if nothing were to come of it.
I know Lord Rufford very well."

"Know Lord Rufford very well!"

"As one does know men that one meets about"

"I thought it might settle everything if we had Mr. Morton here."

"I couldn't meet him, aunt; I couldn't indeed. Mamma doesn't think that he is behaving well."
To the Duchess condemnation from Lady Augustus almost amounted to praise. She felt sure that
Mr. Morton was a worthy man who would not probably behave badly, and though she could not unravel
the mystery, and certainly had no suspicion in regard to Lord Rufford, she was sure that there
was something wrong. But there was nothing more to be said at present. After what Arabella
had told her Mr. Morton could not be asked there to meet her niece. But all the slight feeling
of kindness to the girl which had been created by the tidings of so respectable an engagement
were at once obliterated from the Duchess's bosom. Arabella, with many expressions of thanks
and a good-humoured countenance, left the room, cursing the untowardness of her fate which
would let nothing run smooth.

Lord Rufford was to come. That at any rate was now almost certain. Up to the present she had
doubted, knowing the way in which such men will change their engagements at the least caprice.
But the Duchess expected him on the morrow. She had prepared the way for meeting him as an
old friend without causing surprise, and had gained that step. But should she succeed, as she
hoped, in exacting continued homage from the man, homage for the four or five days of his sojourn
at Mistletoe,--this must be carried on with the knowledge on the part of many in the house
that she was engaged to that horrid Patagonian Minister! Was ever a girl called upon to risk
her entire fate under so many disadvantages?

When she went up to dress for dinner on the day of his expected arrival Lord Rufford had not
come. Since the interview in her aunt's room she had not heard his name mentioned. When she
came into the drawing-room, a little late, he was not there. "We won't wait, Duchess," said
the Duke to his wife at three minutes past eight. The Duke's punctuality at dinner-time was
well known, and everybody else was then assembled. Within two minutes after the Duke's word
dinner was announced, and a party numbering about thirty walked away into the dinner-room.
Arabella, when they were all settled, found that there was a vacant seat next herself. If the
man were to come, fortune would have favoured her in that.

The fish and soup had already disappeared and the Duke was wakening himself to eloquence on
the first entree when Lord Rufford entered the room. "There never were trains so late as yours,
Duchess," he said, "nor any part of the world in which hired horses travel so slowly. I beg
the Duke's pardon, but I suffer the less because I know his Grace never waits for anybody."

"Certainly not," said the Duke, "having some regard for my friends' dinners."

"And I find myself next to you," said Lord Rufford as he took his seat. "Well; that is more
than I deserve."

CHAPTER X

How Things were arranged

"Jack is here," said Lord Rufford, as soon as the fuss of his late arrival had worn itself away.

"I shall be proud to renew my acquaintance."

"Can you come to-morrow?"

"Oh yes," said Arabella, rapturously.

"There are difficulties, and I ought to have written to you about them. I am going with the
Fitzwilliam." Now Mistletoe was in Lincolnshire, not very far from Peterborough, not very far
from Stamford, not very far from Oakham. A regular hunting man like Lord Rufford knew how to
compass the difficulties of distance in all hunting countries. Horses could go by one train
or overnight, and he could follow by another. And a post chaise could meet him here or there.
But when a lady is added, the difficulty is often increased fivefold.

"Is it very far?" asked Arabella.

"It is a little far. I wonder who are going from here?"

"Heaven only knows. I have passed my time in playing cat's cradle with Sir Jeffrey Bunker for
the amusement of the company, and in confidential communications with my aunt and Lady Drummond.
I haven't heard hunting mentioned."

"Have you anything on wheels going across to Holcombe Cross to-morrow, Duke?" asked Lord Rufford.
The Duke said that he did not know of anything on wheels going to Holcombe Cross. Then a hunting
man who had heard the question said that he and another intended to travel by train to Oundle.
Upon this Lord Rufford turned round and looked at Arabella mournfully.

"Cannot I go by train to Oundle?" she asked.

"Nothing on earth so jolly if your pastors and masters and all that will let you."

"I haven't got any pastors and masters."

"The Duchess!" suggested Lord Rufford.

"I thought all that kind of nonsense was over," said Arabella.

"I believe a great deal is over. You can do many things that your mother and grandmother couldn't
do; but absolute freedom,--what you may call universal suffrage,--hasn't come yet, I fear.
It's twenty miles by road, and the Duchess would say something awful if I were to propose to
take you in a post chaise."

"But the railway!"

"I'm afraid that would be worse. We couldn't ride back, you know, as we did at Rufford. At
the best it would be rather a rough and tumble kind of arrangement. I'm afraid we must put
it off. To tell you the truth I'm the least bit in the world afraid of the Duchess."

"I am not at all," said Arabella angrily.

Then Lord Rufford ate his dinner and seemed to think that that matter was settled. Arabella
knew that he might have hunted elsewhere,--that the Cottesmore would be out in their own county
within twelve miles of them, and that the difficulty of that ride would be very much less.
The Duke might have been persuaded to send a carriage that distance. But Lord Rufford cared
more about the chance of a good run than her company! For a while she was sulky;-- for a little
while, till she remembered how ill she could afford to indulge in such a feeling. Then she
said a demure word or two to the gentleman on the other side of her who happened to be a clergyman,
and did not return to the hunting till Lord Rufford had eaten his cheese. "And is that to be
the end of Jack as far as I'm concerned?"

"I have been thinking about it ever since. This is Thursday."

"Not a doubt about it."

"To-morrow will be Friday and the Duke has his great shooting on Saturday. There's nothing
within a hundred miles of us on Saturday. I shall go with the Pytchley if I don't shoot, but
I shall have to get up just when other people are going to bed. That wouldn't suit you."

"I wouldn't mind if I didn't go to bed at all."

"At any rate it wouldn't suit the Duchess. I had meant to go away on Sunday. I hate being anywhere
on Sunday except in a railway carriage. But if I thought the Duke would keep me till Tuesday
morning we might manage Peltry on Monday. I meant to have got back to Surbiton's on Sunday
and have gone from there."

"Where is Peltry?"

"It's a Cottesmore meet,--about five miles this Side of Melton."

"We could ride from here."

"It's rather far for that, but we could talk over the Duke to send a carriage. Ladies always
like to see a meet, and perhaps we could make a party. If not we must put a good face on it
and go in anything we can get. I shouldn't fear the Duchess so much for twelve miles as I should
for twenty."

"I don't mean to let the Duchess interfere with me," said Arabella in a whisper.

That evening Lord Rufford was very good-natured and managed to arrange everything. Lady Chiltern
and another lady said that they would be glad to go to the meet, and a carriage or carriages
were organised. But nothing was said as to Arabella's hunting because the question would immediately
be raised as to her return to Mistletoe in the evening. It was, however, understood that she
was to have a place in the carriage.

Arabella had gained two things. She would have her one day's hunting, and she had secured the
presence of Lord Rufford at Mistletoe for Sunday. With such a man as his lordship it was almost
impossible to find a moment for confidential conversation. He worked so hard at his amusements
that he was as bad a lover as a barrister who has to be in Court all day,--almost as bad as
a sailor who is always going round the world. On this evening it was ten o'clock before the
gentlemen came into the drawing-room, and then Lord Rufford's time was spent in arranging the
party for the meet on Monday. When the ladies went up to bed Arabella had had no other opportunity
than what Fortune had given her at dinner.

And even then she had been watched. That juxtaposition at the dinner-table had come of chance
and had been caused by Lord Rufford's late arrival. Old Sir Jeffrey should have been her neighbour,
with the clergyman on the other side, an arrangement which Her Grace had thought safe with
reference to the rights of the Minister to Patagonia. The Duchess, though she was at some distance
down the table, had seen that her niece and Lord Rufford were intimate, and remembered immediately
what had been said up-stairs. They could not have talked as they were then talking,-- sometimes
whispering as the Duchess could perceive very well,-- unless there had been considerable former
intimacy. She began gradually to understand various things;--why Arabella Trefoil had been
so anxious to come to Mistletoe just at this time, why she had behaved so unlike her usual
self before Lord Rufford's arrival, and why she had been so unwilling to have Mr. Morton invited.
The Duchess was in her way a clever woman and could see many things. She could see that though
her niece might be very anxious to marry Lord Rufford, Lord Rufford might indulge himself in
a close intimacy with the girl without any such intention on his part. And, as far as the family
was concerned, she would have been quite contented with the Morton alliance. She would have
asked Morton now only that it would be impossible that he should come in time to be of service.
Had she been consulted in the first instance she would have put her veto on that drive to the
meet: but she had heard nothing about it until Lady Chiltern had said that she would go. The
Duchess of Omnium had since declared that she also would go, and there were to be two carriages.
But still it never occurred to the Duchess that Arabella intended to hunt. Nor did Arabella
intend that she should know it till the morning came.

The Friday was very dull. The hunting men of course had gone before Arabella came down to breakfast.
She would willingly have got up at seven to pour out Lord Rufford's tea, had that been possible;
but, as it was, she strolled into the breakfast room at half-past ten. She could see by her
aunt's eye and hear in her voice that she was in part detected; and that she would do herself
no further service by acting the good girl; and she therefore resolutely determined to listen
to no more twaddle. She read a French novel which she had brought with her, and spent as much
of the day as she could in her bedroom. She did not see Lord Rufford before dinner, and at
dinner sat between Sir Jeffrey and an old gentleman out of Stamford who dined at Mistletoe
that evening. "We've had no such luck to-night," Lord Rufford said to her in the drawing-room.

"The old dragon took care of that," replied Arabella.

"Why should the old dragon think that I'm dangerous?"

"Because--; I can't very well tell you why, but I dare say you know."

"And do you think I am dangerous?"

"You're a sort of a five-barred gate," said Arabella laughing. "Of course there is a little
danger, but who is going to be stopped by that?"

He could make no reply to this because the Duchess called him away to give some account to
Lady Chiltern about Goarly and the U.R.U., Lady Chiltern's husband being a master of hounds
and a great authority on all matters relating to hunting. "Nasty old dragon!" Arabella said
to herself when she was thus left alone.

The Saturday was the day of the great shooting and at two o'clock the ladies went out to lunch
with the gentlemen by the side of the wood. Lord Rufford had at last consented to be one of
the party. With logs of trees, a few hurdles, and other field appliances, a rustic banqueting
hall was prepared and everything was very nice. Tons of game had been killed, and tons more
were to be killed after luncheon. The Duchess was not there and Arabella contrived so to place
herself that she could be waited upon by Lord Rufford, or could wait upon him. Of course a
great many eyes were upon her, but she knew how to sustain that. Nobody was present who could
dare to interfere with her. When the eating and drinking were over she walked with him to his
corner by the next covert, not heeding the other ladies; and she stood with him for some minutes
after the slaughter had begun. She had come to feel that the time was slipping between her
fingers and that she must say something effective. The fatal word upon which everything would
depend must be spoken at the very latest on their return home on Monday, and she was aware
that much must probably be said before that. "Do we hunt or shoot tomorrow?" she said.

"To-morrow is Sunday."

"I am quite aware of that, but I didn't know whether you could live a day without sport."

"The country is so full of prejudice that I am driven to Sabbatical quiescence."

"Take a walk with me to-morrow," said Arabella.

"But the Duchess," exclaimed Lord Rufford in a stage whisper. One of the beaters was so near
that he could not but have heard;--but what does a beater signify?

"H'mh'm the Duchess! You be at the path behind the great conservatory at half-past three and
we won't mind the Duchess." Lord Rufford was forced to ask for many other particulars as to
the locality and then promised that he would be there at the time named.

CHAPTER XI

"You are so severe"

On the next morning Arabella went to church as did of course a great many of the party. By
remaining at home she could only have excited suspicion. The church was close to the house,
and the family pew consisted of a large room screened off from the rest of the church, with
a fire-place of its own,--so that the labour of attending divine service was reduced to a minimum.
At two o'clock they lunched, and that amusement lasted nearly an hour. There was an afternoon
service at three in attending which the Duchess was very particular. The Duke never went at
that time nor was it expected that any of the gentlemen would do so; but women are supposed
to require more church than men, and the Duchess rather made it a point that at any rate the
young ladies staying in the house should accompany her. Over the other young ladies there her
authority could only be that of influence, but such authority generally sufficed. From her
niece it might be supposed that she would exact obedience, and in this instance she tried it.
"We start in five minutes," she said to Arabella as that young lady was loitering at the table.

"Don't wait for me; aunt, I'm not going," said Arabella boldly.

"I hope you will come to church with us," said the Duchess sternly.

"Not this afternoon."

"Why not, Arabella?"

"I never do go to church twice on Sundays. Some people do, and some people don't. I suppose
that's about it."

"I think that all young women ought to go to church on Sunday afternoon unless there is something
particular to prevent them." Arabella shrugged her shoulders and the Duchess stalked angrily away.

"That makes me feel so awfully wicked," said the Duchess of Omnium, who was the only other
lady then left in the room. Then she got up and went out and Arabella of course followed her.
Lord Rufford had heard it all but had stood at the window and said nothing. He had not been
to church at all, and was quite accustomed to the idea that as a young nobleman who only lived
for pleasure he was privileged to be wicked. Had the Duchess of Mayfair been blessed with a
third daughter fit for marriage she would not have thought of repudiating such a suitor as
Lord Rufford because he did not go to church.

When the house was cleared Arabella went upstairs and put on her hat. It was a bright beautiful
winter's day, not painfully cold because the air was dry, but still a day that warranted furs
and a muff. Having prepared herself she made her way alone to a side door which led from a
branch of the hall on to the garden terrace, and up and down that she walked two or three times,--so
that any of the household that saw her might perceive that she had come out simply for exercise.
At the end of the third turn instead of coming back she went on quickly to the conservatory
and took the path which led round to the further side. There was a small lawn here fitted for
garden games, and on the other end of it an iron gate leading to a path into the woods. At
the further side of the iron gate and leaning against it, stood Lord Rufford smoking a cigar.
She did not pause a moment but hurried across the lawn to join him. He opened the gate and
she passed through. "I'm not going to be done by a dragon," she said as she took her place
alongside of him.

"Upon my, word, Miss Trefoil, I don't think I ever knew a human being with so much pluck as
you have got"

"Girls have to have pluck if they don't mean to be sat upon;--a great deal more than men. The
idea of telling me that I was to go to church as though I were twelve years old!"

"What would she say if she knew that you were walking here with me?"

"I don't care what she'd say. I dare say she walked with somebody once;--only I should think
the somebody must have found it very dull."

"Does she know that you're to hunt to-morrow?"

"I haven't told her and don't mean. I shall just come down in my habit and hat and say nothing
about it. At what time must we start?"

"The carriages are ordered for half-past nine. But I'm afraid you haven't clearly before your
eyes all the difficulties which are incidental to hunting."

"What do you mean?"

"It looks as like a black frost as anything I ever saw in my life."

"But we should go?"

"The horses won't be there if there is a really hard frost. Nobody would stir. It will be the
first question I shall ask the man when he comes to me, and if there have been seven or eight
degrees of frost I shan't get up."

"How am I to know?"

"My man shall tell your maid. But everybody will soon know all about it. It will alter everything."

"I think I shall go mad."

"In white satin?"

"No;--in my habit and hat. It will be the hardest thing, after all! I ought to have insisted
on going to Holcombe Cross on Friday. The sun is shining now. Surely it cannot freeze."

"It will be uncommonly ill-bred if it does."

But, after all, the hunting was not the main point. The hunting had been only intended as an
opportunity; and if that were to be lost,--in which case Lord Rufford would no doubt at once
leave Mistletoe,--there was the more need for using the present hour, the more for using even
the present minute. Though she had said that the sun was shining, it was the setting sun, and
in another half hour the gloom of the evening would be there. Even Lord Rufford would not consent
to walk about with her in the dark. "Oh, Lord Rufford," she said, "I did so look forward to
your giving me another lead." Then she put her hand upon his arm and left it there.

"It would have been nice," said he, drawing her hand a little on, and remembering as he did
so his own picture of himself on the cliff with his sister holding his coat-tails.

"If you could possibly know," she said, "the condition I am in."

"What condition?"

"I know that I can trust you."

"Oh dear, yes. If you mean about telling, I never tell anything."

"That's what I do mean. You remember that man at your place?"

"What man? Poor Caneback?"

"Oh dear no! I wish they could change places because then he could give me no more trouble."

"That's wishing him to be dead, whoever he is."

"Yes. Why should he persecute me? I mean that man we were staying with at Bragton."

"Mr. Morton?"

"Of course I do. Don't you remember your asking me about him, and my telling you that I was
not engaged to him?"

"I remember that"

"Mamma and this horrid old Duchess here want me to marry him. They've got an idea that he is
going to be ambassador at Pekin or something very grand, and they're at me day and night"

"You needn't take him unless you like him."

"They do make me so miserable!" And then she leaned heavily upon his arm. He was a man who
could not stand such pressure as this without returning it. Though he were on the precipice,
and though he must go over, still he could not stand it. "You remember that night after the ball?"

"Indeed I do."

"And you too had asked me whether I cared for that horrid man."

"I didn't see anything horrid. You had been staying at his house and people had told me. What
was I to think?"

"You ought to have known what to think. There; let me go,"--for now he had got his arm round
her waist. "You don't care for me a bit. I know you don't. It would be all the same to you
whom I married;--or whether I died."

"You don't think that, Bella?" He fancied that he had heard her mother call her Bella, and
that the name was softer and easier than the full four syllables. It was at any rate something
for her to have gained.

"I do think it. When I came here on purpose to have a skurry over the country with you, you
went away to Holcombe Cross though you could have hunted here, close in the neighbourhood.
And now you tell me there will be a frost to-morrow."

"Can I help that, darling?"

"Darling! I ain't your darling. You don't care a bit for me. I believe you hope there'll be
a frost." He pressed her tighter, but laughed as he did so. It was evidently a joke to him;--a
pleasant joke no doubt. "Leave me alone, Lord Rufford. I won't let you, for I know you don't
love me." Very suddenly he did leave his hold of her and stood erect with his hands in his
pockets, for the rustle of a dress was heard. It was still daylight, but the light was dim
and the last morsel of the grandeur of the sun had ceased to be visible through the trees.
The church-going people had been released, and the Duchess having probably heard certain tidings,
had herself come to take a walk in the shrubbery behind the conservatory. Arabella had probably
been unaware that she and her companion by a turn in the walks were being brought back towards
the iron gate. As it was they met the Duchess face to face.

Lord Rufford had spoken the truth when he had said that he was a little afraid of the Duchess.
Such was his fear that at the moment he hardly knew what he was to say. Arabella had boasted
when she had declared that she was not at all afraid of her aunt;--but she was steadfastly
minded that she would not be cowed by her fears. She had known beforehand that she would have
occasion for much presence of mind, and was prepared to exercise it at a moment's notice. She
was the first to speak. "Is that you, aunt? you are out of church very soon."

"Lord Rufford," said the Duchess, "I don't think this is a proper time for walking out."

"Don't you, Duchess? The air is very nice."

"It is becoming dark and my niece had better return to the house with me. Arabella, you can
come this way. It is just as short as the other. If you go on straight, Lord Rufford, it will
take you to the house." Of course Lord Rufford went on straight and of course Arabella had
to turn with her aunt. "Such conduct as this is shocking," began the Duchess.

"Aunt, let me tell you."

"What can you tell me?"

"I can tell you a great deal if you will let me. Of course I am quite prepared to own that
I did not intend to tell you anything."

"I can well believe that"

"Because I could hardly hope for your sympathy. You have never liked me."

"You have no right to say that"

"I don't do it in the way of finding fault. I don't know why you should. But I have been too
much afraid of you to tell you my secrets. I must do so now because you have found me walking
with Lord Rufford. I could not otherwise excuse myself."

"Is he engaged to marry you?"

"He has asked me"

"No!"

"But he has, aunt. You must be a little patient and let me tell it you all. Mamma did make
up an engagement between me and Mr. Morton at Washington."

"Did you know Lord Rufford then?"

"I knew him, but did not think he was behaving quite well. It is very hard sometimes to know
what a man means. I was angry when I went to Washington. He has told me since that he loves
me,--and has offered."

"But you are engaged to marry the other man."

"Nothing on earth shall make me marry Mr. Morton. Mamma did it, and mamma now has very nearly
broken it off because she says he is very shabby about money. Indeed it is broken off. I bad
told him so even before Lord Rufford had proposed to me."

"When did he propose and where?"

"At Rufford. We were staying there in November."

"And you asked to come here that you might meet him?"

"Just so. Was that strange? Where could I be better pleased to meet him than in my uncle's house?"

"Yes;--if you had told us all this before."

"Perhaps I ought; but you are so severe, I did not dare. Do not turn against me now. My uncle
could not but like that his niece should marry Lord Rufford."

"How can I turn against you if it is settled? Lord Rufford can do as he pleases. Has he told
your father,--or your mother?"

"Mamma knows it."

"But not from him?" asked the Duchess.

Arabella paused a moment but hardly a moment before she answered. It was hard upon her that
she should have to make up her mind on matters of such importance with so little time for consideration.
"Yes," she said; "mamma knows it from him. Papa is so very indifferent about everything that
Lord Rufford has not spoken to him."

"If so, it will be best that the Duke should speak to him."

There was another pause, but hardly long enough to attract notice. "Perhaps so," she said;
"but not quite yet. He is so peculiar, so touchy. The Duke is not quite like my father and
he would think himself suspected."

"I cannot imagine that if he is in earnest."

"That is because you do not know him as I do. Only think where I should be if I were to lose him!"

"Lose him!"

"Oh, aunt, now that you know it I do hope that you will be my friend. It would kill me if he
were to throw me over."

"But why should he throw you over if he proposed to you only last month?"

"He might do it if he thought that he were interfered with. Of course I should like my uncle
to speak to him, but not quite immediately: If he were to say that he had changed his mind,
what could I do, or what could my uncle do?"

"That would be very singular conduct."

"Men are so different now, aunt. They give themselves so much more latitude. A man has only
to say that he has changed his mind and nothing ever comes of it."

"I have never been used to such men, my dear."

"At any rate do not ask the Duke to speak to him to-day. I will think about it and perhaps
you will let me see you to-morrow, after we all come in." To this the Duchess gravely assented.
"And I hope you won't be angry because you found me walking with him, or because I did not
go to church. It is everything to me. I am sure, dear aunt, you will understand that" To this
the Duchess made no reply, and they both entered the house together. What became of Lord Rufford
neither of them saw.

Arabella when she regained her room thought that upon the whole fortune had favoured her by
throwing her aunt in her way. She had, no doubt, been driven to tell a series of barefaced
impudent lies,--lies of such a nature that they almost made her own hair stand on end as she
thought of them;--but they would matter nothing if she succeeded; and if she failed in this
matter she did not care much what her aunt thought of her. Her aunt might now do her a good
turn; and some lies she must have told;--such had been the emergencies of her position! As
she thought of it all she was glad that her aunt had met her; and when Lord Rufford was summoned
to take her out to dinner on that very Sunday,--a matter as to which her aunt managed everything
herself,--she was immediately aware that her lies had done her good service.

"This was more than I expected," Lord Rufford said when they were seated.

"She knew that she had overdone it when she sent you away in that cavalier way," replied Arabella,
"and now she wants to show that she didn't mean anything."

CHAPTER XII

The Day at Peltry

The Duchess did tell the Duke the whole story about Lord Rufford and Arabella that night,--as
to which it may be said that she also was false. But according to her conscience there were
two ways of telling such a secret. As a matter of course she told her husband everything. That
idle placid dinner-loving man was in truth consulted about each detail of the house and family;
but the secret was told to him with injunctions that he was to say nothing about it to any
one for twenty-four hours. After that the Duchess was of opinion that he should speak to Lord
Rufford. "What could I say to him?" asked the Duke. "I'm not her father."

"But your brother is so indifferent"

"No doubt. But that gives me no authority. If he does mean to marry the girl he must go to
her father; or it is possible that he might come to me. But if he does not mean it, what can
I do?" He promised, however, that he would think of it.

It was still dark night, or the morning was dark as night, when Arabella got out of bed and
opened her window. The coming of a frost now might ruin her. The absence of it might give her
everything in life that she wanted. Lord Rufford had promised her a tedious communication through
servants as to the state of the weather. She was far too energetic, far too much in earnest,
to wait for that. She opened the window and putting out her hand she felt a drizzle of rain.
And the air, though the damp from it seemed to chill her all through, was not a frosty air.
She stood there a minute so as to be sure and then retreated to her bed.

Fortune was again favouring her;--but then how would it be if it should turn to hard rain?
In that case Lady Chiltern and the other ladies certainly would not go, and how in such case
should she get herself conveyed to the meet? She would at any rate go down in her hat and habit
and trust that somebody would provide for her. There might be much that would be disagreeable
and difficult, but hardly anything could be worse than the necessity of telling such lies as
those which she had fabricated on the previous afternoon.

She had been much in doubt whether her aunt had or had not believed her. That the belief was
not a thorough belief she was almost certain. But then there was the great fact that after
the story had been told she had been sent out to dinner leaning on Lord Rufford's arm. Unless
her aunt had believed something that would not have taken place. And then so much of it was
true. Surely it would be impossible that he should not propose after what had occurred! Her
aunt was evidently alive to the advantage of the marriage, to the advantage which would accrue
not to her, Arabella, individually, but to the Trefoils generally. She almost thought that
her aunt would not put spokes in her wheel for this day. She wished now that she had told her
aunt that she intended to hunt, so that there need not be any surprise.

She slept again and again looked out of the window. It rained a little but still there were
hours in which the rain might cease. Again she slept and at eight her maid brought her word
that there would be hunting. It did rain a little but very little. Of course she would dress
herself in riding attire.

At nine o'clock she walked into the breakfast parlour properly equipped for the day's sport.
There were four or five men there in red coats and top boots, among whom Lord Rufford was conspicuous.
They were just seating themselves at the breakfast table, and her aunt was already in her place.
Lady Chiltern had come into the room with herself, and at the door had spoken some good-natured
words of surprise. "I did not know that you were a sportswoman, Miss Trefoil." "I do ride a
little when I am well mounted," Arabella had said as she entered the room. Then she collected
herself, and arranged her countenance, and endeavoured to look as though she were doing the
most ordinary thing in the world. She went round the room and kissed her aunt's brow. This
she had not done on any other morning; but then on other mornings she had been late. "Are you
going to ride?" said the Duchess.

"I believe so, aunt."

"Who is giving you a horse?"

"Lord Rufford is lending me one. I don't think even his good-nature will extend to giving away
so perfect an animal. I know him well for I rode him when I was at Rufford." This she said
so that all the room should hear her.

"You need not be afraid, Duchess," said Lord Rufford. "He is quite safe"

"And his name is Jack," said Arabella laughing as she took her place with a little air of triumph.
"Lord Rufford offered to let me have him all the time I was here, but I didn't know whether
you would take me in so attended."

There was not one who heard her who did not feel that she spoke as though Lord Rufford were
all her own. Lord Rufford felt it himself and almost thought he might as well turn himself
round and bid his sister and Miss Penge let him go. He must marry some day and why should not
this girl do as well as any one else? The Duchess did not approve of young ladies hunting.
She certainly would not have had her niece at Mistletoe had she expected such a performance.
But she could not find fault now. There was a feeling in her bosom that if there were an engagement
it would be cruel to cause obstructions. She certainly could not allow a lover in her house
for her husband's niece without having official authenticated knowledge of the respectability
of the lover; but the whole thing had come upon her so suddenly that she was at a loss what
to do or what to say. It certainly did not seem to her that Arabella was in the least afraid
of being found out in any untruth. If the girl were about to become Lady Rufford then it would
be for Lord Rufford to decide whether or no she should hunt. Soon after this the Duke came
in and he also alluded to his niece's costume and was informed that she was to ride one of
Lord Rufford's horses. "I didn't hear it mentioned before," said the Duke. "He'll carry Miss
Trefoil quite safely," said Lord Rufford who was at the moment standing over a game pie on
the sideboard. Then the subject was allowed to drop.

At half-past nine there was no rain, and the ladies were so nearly punctual that the carriages
absolutely started at ten. Some of the men rode on; one got a seat on the carriage; and Lord
Rufford drove himself and a friend in a dog-cart, tandem. The tandem was off before the carriages,
but Lord Rufford assured them that he would get the master to allow them a quarter of an hour.
Arabella contrived to say one word to him. "If you start without me I'll never speak to you
again." He nodded and smiled; but perhaps thought that if so it might be as well that he should
start without waiting for her.

At the last moment the Duchess had taken it into her head that she too would go to the meet.
No doubt she was actuated by some feeling in regard to her niece; but it was not till Arabella
was absolutely getting on to Jack at the side of the carriage,--under the auspices of Jack's
owner,--that the idea occurred to her Grace that there would be a great difficulty as to the
return home. "Arabella, how do you mean to get back?" she asked.

"That will be all right, aunt," said Arabella.

"I will see to that," said Lord Rufford.

The gracious but impatient master of the hounds had absolutely waited full twenty minutes for
the Duchess's party; and was not minded to wait a minute longer for conversation. The moment
that the carriages were there the huntsmen had started so that there was an excuse for hurry.
Lord Rufford as he was speaking got on to his own horse, and before the Duchess could expostulate
they were away. There was a feeling of triumph in Arabella's bosom as she told herself that
she had at any rate secured her day's hunting in spite of such heart-breaking difficulties.

The sport was fairly good. They had twenty minutes in the morning and a kill. Then they drew
a big wood during which they ate their lunch and drank their sherry. In the big wood they found
a fox but could not do anything with him. After that they came on a third in a stubble field
and ran him well for half an hour, when he went to ground. It was then three o'clock; and as
the days were now at the shortest the master declined to draw again. They were then about sixteen
miles from Mistletoe, and about ten from Stamford where Lord Rufford's horses were standing.
The distance from Stamford to Mistletoe was eight. Lord Rufford proposed that they should ride
to Stamford and then go home in a hired carriage. There seemed indeed to be no other way of
getting home without taking three tired horses fourteen miles out of their way. Arabella made
no objection whatever to the arrangement. Lord Rufford did in truth make a slight effort,--the
slightest possible,--to induce a third person to join their party. There was still something
pulling at his coat-tail, so that there might yet be a chance of saving him from the precipice.
But he failed. The tired horseman before whom the suggestion was casually thrown out, would
have been delighted to accept it, instead of riding all the way to Mistletoe; but he did not
look upon it as made in earnest. Two, he knew, were company and three none.

The hunting field is by no means a place suited for real love-making. Very much of preliminary
conversation may be done there in a pleasant way, and intimacies may be formed. But when lovers
have already walked with arms round each other in a wood, riding together may be very pleasant
but can hardly be ecstatic. Lord Rufford might indeed have asked her to be Lady R. while they
were breaking up the first fox, or as they loitered about in the big wood;--but she did not
expect that. There was no moment during the day's sport in which she had a right to tell herself
that he was misbehaving because he did not so ask her. But in a post chaise it would be different.

At the inn at Stamford the horses were given up, and Arabella condescended to take a glass
of cherry brandy. She had gone through a long day; it was then half-past four, and she was
not used to be many hours on horseback. The fatigue seemed to her to be very much greater than
it had been when she got back to Rufford immediately after the fatal accident. The ten miles
along the road, which had been done in little more than an hour, had almost overcome her. She
had determined not to cry for mercy. as the hard trot went on. She had passed herself off as
an accustomed horsewoman, and having done so well across the country, would not break down
coming home. But, as she got into the carriage, she was very tired. She could almost have cried
with fatigue;--and yet she told herself that now,-- now,--must the work be done. She would
perhaps tell him that she was tired. She might even assist her cause by her languor; but, though
she should die for it, she would not waste her precious moments by absolute rest. "May I light
a cigar?" he said as he got in.

"You know you may. Wherever I may be with you do you think that I would interfere with your
gratifications?"

"You are the best girl in all the world," he said as he took out his case and threw himself
back in the corner."

"Do you call that a long day?" she asked when he had lit his cigar.

"Not very long."

"Because I am so tired."

"We came home pretty sharp. I thought it best not to shock her Grace by too great a stretch
into the night. As it is you will have time to go to bed for an hour or two before you dress.
That's what I do when I am in time. You'll be right as a trivet then."

"Oh; I'm right now,--only tired. It was very nice."

"Pretty well. We ought to have killed that last fox. And why on earth we made nothing of that
fellow in Gooseberry Grove I couldn't understand. Old Tony would never have left that fox alive
above ground. Would you like to go to sleep?"

"O dear no."

"Afraid of gloves?" said he, drawing nearer to her. They might pull him as they liked by his
coat-tails but as he was in a post chaise with her he must make himself agreeable. She shook
her head and laughed as she looked at him through the gloom. Then of course he kissed her.

"Lord Rufford, what does this mean?"

"Don't you know what it means?"

"Hardly."

"It means that I think you the jolliest girl out. I never liked anybody so well as I do you."

"Perhaps you never liked anybody," said she.

"Well;--yes, I have; but I am not going to boast of what fortune has done for me in that way.
I wonder whether you care for me?"

"Do you want to know?"

"I should like to know that you did."

"Because you have never asked me."

"Am I not asking you now, Bella?"

"There are different ways of asking,--but there is only one way that will get an answer from
me. No;--no. I will not have it. I have allowed too much to you already. Oh, I am so tired."
Then she sank back almost into his arms,--but recovered herself very quickly. "Lord Rufford,"
she said, "if you are a man of honour let there be an end of this. I am sure you do not wish
to make me wretched."

"I would do anything to make you happy."

"Then tell me that you love me honestly, sincerely, with all your heart,--and I shall be happy."

"You know I do."

"Do you? Do you?" she said, and then she flung herself on to his shoulder, and for a while
she seemed to faint. For a few minutes she lay there and as she was lying she calculated whether
it would be better to try at this moment to drive him to some clearer declaration, or to make
use of what he had already said without giving him an opportunity of protesting that he had
not meant to make her an offer of marriage. He had declared that he loved her honestly and
with his whole heart. Would not that justify her in setting her uncle at him? And might it
not be that the Duke would carry great weight with him;--that the Duke might induce him to
utter the fatal word though she, were she to demand it now, might fail? As she thought of it
all she affected to swoon, and almost herself believed that she was swooning. She was conscious
but hardly more than conscious that he was kissing her;--and yet her brain was at work. She
felt that he would be startled, repelled, perhaps disgusted were she absolutely to demand more
from him now. "Oh, Rufford;--oh, my dearest," she said as she woke up, and with her face close
to his, so that he could look into her eyes and see their brightness even through the gloom.
Then she extricated herself from his embrace with a shudder and a laugh. "You would hardly
believe how tired I am," she said putting out her ungloved hand. He took it and drew her to
him and there she sat in his arms for the short remainder of the journey.

They were now in the park, and as the lights of the house came in sight he gave her some counsel.
"Go up to your room at once, dearest, and lay down."

"I will. I don't think I could go in among them. I should fall."

"I will see the Duchess and tell her that you are all right, but very tired. If she goes up
to you had better see her."

"Oh, yes. But I had rather not."

"She'll be sure to come. And, Bella, Jack must be yours now."

"You are joking."

"Never more serious in my life. Of course he must remain with me just at present, but he is
your horse." Then, as the carriage was stopping, she took his hand and kissed it.

She got to her room as quickly as possible; and then, before she had even taken off her hat,
she sat down to think of it all,-- sending her maid away meanwhile to fetch her a cup of tea.
He must have meant it for an offer. There had at any rate been enough to justify her in so
taking it. The present he had made to her of the horse could mean nothing else. Under no other
circumstances would it be possible that she should either take the horse or use him. Certainly
it was an offer, and as such she would instruct her uncle to use it. Then she allowed her imagination
to revel in thoughts of Rufford Hall, of the Rufford house in town, and a final end to all
those weary labours which she would thus have brought to so glorious a termination.

CHAPTER XIII

Lord Rufford wants to see a Horse

Lord Rufford had been quite right about the Duchess. Arabella had only taken off her hat and
was drinking her tea when the Duchess came up to her. "Lord Rufford says that you were too
tired to come in," said the Duchess.

"I am tired, aunt;--very tired. But there is nothing the matter with me. We had to ride ever
so far coming home and it was that knocked up.

"It was very bad, your in a post chaise, Arabella."

"Why was it bad, aunt? I thought it very nice."

"My dear, it shouldn't have been done. You ought to have known that. I certainly wouldn't have
had you here had I thought that there would be anything of the kind."

"It is going to be all right," said Arabella laughing.

According to her Grace's view of things it was not and could not be made "all right." It would
not have been all right were the girl to become Lady Rufford to-morrow. The scandal, or loud
reproach due to evil doings, may be silenced by subsequent conduct. The merited punishment
may not come visibly. But nothing happening after could make it right that a young lady should
come home from hunting in a post chaise alone with a young unmarried man. When the Duchess
first heard it she thought what would have been her feelings if such a thing had been suggested
in reference to one of her own daughters! Lord Rufford had come to her in the drawing-room
and had told her the story in a quiet pleasant manner,--merely saying that Miss Trefoil was
too much fatigued to show herself at the present moment. She had thought from his manner that
her niece's story had been true. There was a cordiality and apparent earnestness as to the
girl's comfort which seemed to be compatible with the story. But still she could hardly understand
that Lord Rufford should wish to have it known that he travelled about the country in such
a fashion with the girl he intended to marry. But if it were true, then she must look after
her niece. And even if it were not true,-- in which case she would never have the girl at Mistletoe
again,-- yet she could not ignore her presence in the house. It was now the 18th of January.
Lord Rufford was to go on the following day, and Arabella on the 20th. The invitation had not
been given so as to stretch beyond that. If it could be at once decided,--declared by Lord
Rufford to the Duke,--that the match was to be a match, then the invitation should be renewed,
Arabella should be advised to put off her other friends, and Lord Rufford should be invited
to come back early in the next month and spend a week or two in the proper fashion with his
future bride. All that had been settled between the Duke and the Duchess. So much should be
done for the sake of the family. But the Duke had not seen his way to asking Lord Rufford any
question.

The Duchess must now find out the truth if she could,--so that if the story were false she
might get rid of the girl and altogether shake her off from the Mistletoe roof tree. Arabella's
manner was certainly free from any appearance of hesitation or fear. "I don't know about being
all right," said the Duchess. "It cannot be right that you should have come home with him alone
in a hired carriage."

"Is a hired carriage wickeder than a private one?"

"If a carriage had been sent from here for you, it would have been different;--but even then
he should not have come with you."

"But he would I'm sure;--and I should have asked him. What;--the man I'm engaged to marry!
Mayn't he sit in a carriage with me?"

The Duchess could not explain herself, and thought that she had better drop that topic. "What
does he mean to do now, Arabella?"

"What does who mean, aunt?"

"Lord Rufford."

"He means to marry me. And he means to go from here to Mr. Surbiton's to-morrow. I don't quite
understand the question."

"And what do you mean to do?"

"I mean to marry him. And I mean to join mamma in London on Wednesday. I believe we are to
go to the Connop Green's the next day. Mr. Connop Green is a sort of cousin of mamma;--but
they are odious people."

"Who is to see Lord Rufford? However, my dear, if you are very tired, I will leave you now."

"No, aunt. Stay a moment if you will be so very kind. I am tired; but if I were twice as tired
I would find strength to talk about this. If my uncle would speak to Lord Rufford at once I
should take it as the very kindest thing he could do. I could not send him to my uncle; for,
after all, one's uncle and one's father are not the same. I could only refer him to papa. But
if the Duke would speak to him!"

"Did he renew his offer to-day?"

"He has done nothing else but renew it ever since he has been in the carriage with me. That's
the plain truth. He made his offer at Rufford. He renewed it in the wood yesterday;--and he
repeated it over and over again as we came home to-day. It may have been very wrong, but so
it was." Miss Trefoil must have thought that kissing and proposing were the same thing. Other
young ladies have, perhaps, before now made such a mistake. But this young lady had had much
experience and should have known better.

"Lord Rufford had better perhaps speak to your uncle."

"Will you tell him so, aunt?"

The Duchess thought about it for a moment. She certainly could not tell Lord Rufford to speak
to the Duke without getting the Duke's leave to tell him so. And then, if all this were done,
and Lord Rufford were to assure the Duke that the young lady had made a mistake, how derogatory
would all that be to the exalted quiescence of the house of Mayfair! She thoroughly wished
that her niece were out of the house; for though she did believe the story, her belief was
not thorough. "I will speak to your uncle," she said. "And now you had better go to sleep."

"And, dear aunt, pray excuse me at dinner. I have been so excited, so flurried, and so fatigued,
that I fear I should make a fool of myself if I attempted to come down. I should get into a
swoon, which would be dreadful. My maid shall bring me a bit of something and a glass of sherry,
and you shall find me in the drawing-room when you come out" Then the Duchess went, and Arabella
was left alone to take another view of the circumstances of the campaign.

Though there were still infinite dangers, yet she could hardly wish that anything should be
altered. Should Lord Rufford disown her, which she knew to be quite possible, there would be
a general collapse and the world would crash over her head. But she had known, when she took
this business in hand, that as success would open Elysium to her, so would failure involve
her in absolute ruin. She was determined that she would mar nothing now by cowardice, and having
so resolved, and having fortified herself with perhaps two glasses of sherry, she went down
to the drawing-room a little before nine, and laid herself out upon a sofa till the ladies
should come in.

Lord Rufford had gone to bed, as was his wont on such occasions, with orders that he should
be called to dress for dinner at half-past seven. But as he laid himself down he made up his
mind that, instead of sleeping, he would give himself up to thinking about Arabella Trefoil.
The matter was going beyond a joke, and would require some thinking. He liked her well enough,
but was certainly not in love with her. I doubt whether men ever are in love with girls who
throw themselves into their arms. A man's love, till it has been chastened and fastened by
the feeling of duty which marriage brings with it, is instigated mainly by the difficulty of
pursuit. "It is hardly possible that anything so sweet as that should ever be mine; and yet,
because I am a man, and because it is so heavenly sweet, I will try." That is what men say
to themselves, but Lord Rufford had had no opportunity of saying that to himself in regard
to Miss Trefoil. The thing had been sweet, but not heavenly sweet; and he had never for a moment
doubted the possibility. Now at any rate he would make up his mind. But, instead of doing so,
he went to sleep, and when he got up he was ten minutes late, and was forced, as he dressed
himself, to think of the Duke's dinner instead of Arabella Trefoil.

The Duchess before dinner submitted herself and all her troubles at great length to the Duke,
but the Duke could give her no substantial comfort. Of course it had all been wrong. He supposed
that they ought not to have been found walking together in the dark on Sunday afternoon. The
hunting should not have been arranged without sanction; and the return home in the hired carriage
had no doubt been highly improper. But what could he do? If the marriage came off it would
be all well. If not, this niece must not be invited to Mistletoe again. As to speaking to Lord
Rufford, he did not quite see how he was to set about it. His own girls had been married in
so very different a fashion! He could imagine nothing so disagreeable as to have to ask a gentleman
his intentions. Parental duty might make it necessary when a daughter had not known how to
keep her own position intact; but here there was no parental duty. If Lord Rufford would speak
to him, then indeed there would be no difficulty. At last he told his wife that, if she could
find an opportunity of suggesting to the young Lord that, he might perhaps say a word to the
young lady's uncle without impropriety, if she could do this in a light easy way, so as to
run no peril of a scene,--she might do so.

When the two duchesses and all the other ladies came out into the drawing-room, Arabella was
found upon the sofa. Of course she became the centre of a little interest for a few minutes,
and the more so, as her aunt went up to her and made some inquiries. Had she had any dinner?
Was she less fatigued? The fact of the improper return home in the post chaise had become generally
known, and there were some there who would have turned a very cold shoulder to Arabella had
not her aunt noticed her. Perhaps there were some who had envied her Jack, and Lord Rufford's
admiration, and even the post chaise. But as long as her aunt countenanced her it was not likely
that any one at Mistletoe would be unkind to her. The Duchess of Omnium did indeed remark to
Lady Chiltern that she remembered something of the same kind happening to the same girl soon
after her own marriage. As the Duchess had now been married a great many years this was unkind,--but
it was known that when the Duchess of Omnium did dislike any one, she never scrupled to show
it. "Lord Rufford is about the silliest man of his day," she said afterwards to the same lady;
"but there is one thing which I do not think even he is silly enough to do."

It was nearly ten o'clock when the gentlemen came into the room and then it was that the Duchess,--Arabella's
aunt,--must find the opportunity of giving Lord Rufford the hint of which the Duke had spoken.
He was to leave Mistletoe on the morrow and might not improbably do so early. Of all women
she was the steadiest, the most tranquil, the least abrupt in her movements. She could not
pounce upon a man, and nail him down, and say what she had to say, let him be as unwilling
as he might to hear it. At last, however, seeing Lord Rufford standing alone,--he had then
just left the sofa on which Arabella was still lying,--without any apparent effort she made
her way up to his side. "You had rather a long day," she said.

"Not particularly, Duchess."

"You had to come home so far!"

"About the average distance. Did you think it a hard day, Maurice?" Then he called to his aid
a certain Lord Maurice St. John, a hard-riding and hard-talking old friend of the Trefoil family
who gave the Duchess a very clear account of all the performance, during which Lord Rufford
fell into an interesting conversation with Mrs. Mulready, the wife of the neighbouring bishop.

After that the Duchess made another attempt. "Lord Rufford," she said, "we should be so glad
if you would come back to us the first week in February. The Prices will be here and the Mackenzies,
and--."

"I am pledged to stay with my sister till the fifth, and on the sixth Surbiton and all his
lot come to me. Battersby, is it not the sixth that you and Surbiton come to Rufford?"

"I rather think it is," said Battersby.

"I wish it were possible. I like Mistletoe so much. It's so central."

"Very well for hunting;--is it not, Lord Rufford?" But that horrid Captain Battersby did not
go out of the way.

"I wonder whether Lady Chiltern would do me a favour," said Lord Rufford stepping across the
room in search of that lady. He might be foolish, but when the Duchess of Omnium declared him
to be the silliest man of the day I think she used a wrong epithet. The Duchess was very patient
and intended to try again, but on that evening she got no opportunity.

Captain Battersby was Lord Rufford's particular friend on this occasion and had come over with
him from Mr. Surbiton's house. "Bat," he said as they were sitting close to each other in the
smoking-room that night, "I mean to make an early start tomorrow."

"What;--to get to Surbiton's?"

"I've got something to do on the way. I want to look at a horse at Stamford."

"I'll be off with you."

"No;--don't do that. I'll go in my own cart. I'll make my man get hold of my groom and manage
it somehow. I can leave my things and you can bring them. Only say to-morrow that I was obliged
to go."

"I understand."

"Heard something, you know, and all that kind of thing. Make my apologies to the Duchess. In
point of fact I must be in Stamford at ten."

"I'll manage it all," said Captain Battersby, who made a very shrewd guess at the cause which
drew his friend to such an uncomfortable proceeding. After that Lord Rufford went to his room
and gave a good deal of trouble that night to some of the servants in reference to the steps
which would be necessary to take him out of harm's way before the Duchess would be up on the
morrow.

Arabella when she heard of the man's departure on the following morning, which she luckily
did from her own maid, was for some time overwhelmed by it. Of course the man was running away
from her. There could be no doubt of it. She had watched him narrowly on the previous evening,
and had seen that her aunt had tried in vain to speak to him. But she did not on that account
give up the game. At any rate they had not found her out at Mistletoe. That was something.
Of course it would have been infinitely better for her could he have been absolutely caught
and nailed down before he left the house; but that was perhaps more than she had a right to
expect. She could still pursue him; still write to him;--and at last, if necessary, force her
father to do so. But she must trust now chiefly to her own correspondence.

"He told me, aunt, the last thing last night that he was going," she said.

"Why did you not mention it?"

"I thought he would have told you. I saw him speaking to you. He had received some telegram
about a horse. He's the most flighty man in the world about such things. I am to write to him
before I leave this to-morrow." Then the Duchess did not believe a word of the engagement.
She felt at any rate certain that if there was an engagement, Lord Rufford did not mean to keep it.

CHAPTER XIV

The Senator is badly treated

