Will you let chance answer that question for you? Will you let yourself be led blindfold by
the first guide that offers, or run stupidly after the crowd without asking whither they are
going? You would not act so in regard to the shortest earthly journey. You would not rush into
the railway station and jump aboard of the first train you saw, without looking at the sign-boards.
Surely if there is anything in regard to which we need to exercise deliberation, it is the
choice of the way that we are to take through the world. You have thought a good deal about
what business, what profession you are to follow. Think more deeply, I beg you, about how you
are to follow it and what you are to follow it for. Stand in the ways, and see.

II. Second, I earnestly advise you to ask for the old paths, where is the good way.

I do not regard this as a mere counsel of conservatism, an unqualified commendation of antiquity.
True, it implies that the good way will not be a new discovery, a track that you and I strike
out for ourselves. Among the paths of conduct, that which is entirely original is likely to
be false, and that which is true is likely to have some footprints on it. When a man comes
to us with a scheme of life which he has made all by himself, we may safely say to him, as
the old composer said to the young musician who brought him a symphony of the future, "It is
both new and beautiful; but that which is new is not beautiful, and that which is beautiful
is not new."

But this is by no means the same as saying that everything ancient is therefore beautiful and
true, or that all the old ways are good. The very point of the text is that we must discriminate
among antiquities,--a thing as necessary in old chairs and old books as in old ways.

Evil is almost, if not quite, as ancient as good. Folly and wisdom, among men at least, are
twins, and we can not distinguish between them by the grey hairs. The story of its existence is
first heard from some Jewish rabbin hundreds of years after Christ.

We have proof enough in the New Testament that the Jews had certain
Sacred Scriptures; the New Testament writers often quote them and
refer to them; but there is no conclusive proof that they had been
gathered at this time into a complete collection.

Jesus tells the Jews that they search the Scriptures, but he does not say how many of these
Scriptures there were in his day; Paul reminds Timothy that from a child he had known the
Holy Scriptures, but he gives no list of their titles. If we found all the books of the Old
Testament quoted or referred to by the New Testament writers, then we should know that they
possessed the same books that we have. But the stern-light of a ship that sails before you is
a head-light to you.

You do not need to try everything for yourself in order to understand what it means. The writer
of Ecclesiastes tells us that he gave his heart to know madness and folly; and that it was
all vanity and vexation of spirit. It will be a wise economy for us to accept his lesson without
paying his tuition-fee over again.

It is perfectly safe for a man to take it as a fact that fire burns, without putting his hand
into the flame. He does not need to try perilous experiments with his own soul in order to
make sure that lust defiles, that avarice hardens, that frivolity empties, that selfishness
cankers the heart. He may understand the end of the way of sensuality by looking at any old
pleasure-seeker,

  "Gray, and gap-toothed, and lean as death,"

mumbling the dainties that he can no longer enjoy, and glowering with bleared eyes at the indulgences
which now mock him even while they tempt him. The goal of the path of covetousness may be discerned
in the face of any old money-worshipper; keeping guard over his piles of wealth, like a surly
watch-dog; or, if perchance he has failed, haunting the places where fortune has deceived him,
like an unquiet ghost.

Inquire and learn; consider and discern. There need be no doubt about the direction of life's
various ways.

Which are the nations that have been most peaceful and noble and truly prosperous? Those that
have followed pride and luxury and idolatry? Or those that have cherished sobriety and justice,
and acknowledged the Divine law of righteousness?

Which are the families that have been most serene and pure and truly fortunate? Those in which
there has been no discipline, no restraint, no common faith, no mutual love? Or those in which
sincere religion has swayed life to its stern and gracious laws, those in which parents and
children have walked together to the House of God, and knelt together at His altar, and rejoiced
together in His service?

I tell you, my brother-men, it has become too much the fashion in these latter days to sneer
and jeer at the old-fashioned ways of the old-fashioned American household. Something too much
of iron there may have been in the Puritan's temper; something too little of sunlight may have
come in through the narrow windows of his house. But that house had foundations, and the virile
virtues lived in it. There were plenty of red corpuscles in his blood, and his heart beat in
time with the eternal laws of right, even though its pulsations sometimes seemed a little slow
and heavy. It would be well for us if we could get back into the old way, which proved itself
to be the good way, and maintain, as our fathers did, the sanctity of the family, the sacredness
of the marriage-vow, the solemnity of the mutual duties binding parents and children together.
From the households that followed this way have come men that could rule themselves as well
as their fellows, women that could be trusted as well as loved. Read the history of such families,
and you will understand the truth of the poet's words:--

  "Self-reverence, self-knowledge, self-control,--
  These three alone lead life to sovereign power."

Look around you in the world and see what way it is that has brought your fellow-men to peace
and quietness of heart, to security and honour of life. Is it the way of unbridled self-indulgence,
of unscrupulous greed, of aimless indolence? Or is it the way of self-denial, of cheerful industry,
of fair dealing, of faithful service? If true honour lies in the respect and grateful love
of one's fellow-men, if true success lies in a contented heart and a peaceful conscience, then
the men who have reached the highest goal of life are those who have followed most closely
the way to which Jesus Christ points us and in which He goes before us.

III. Walk therein and ye shall find rest for your souls. Right action brings rest.

Rest! Rest! How that word rings like a sweet bell through the turmoil of our age. We are rushing
to and fro, destroying rest in our search for it. We drive our automobiles from one place to
another, at furious speed, not knowing what we shall do when we get there. 3. The next thirteen
chapters (x.-xxii. There is only one exception (xix. 7), where the couplet is a triplet. Probably
one phrase has been lost. The heading of this section is "The Proverbs
of Solomon;" the section ends with the twenty-second chapter. We
feed ourselves upon novel speculations until our heads swim with the vertigo of universal knowledge
which changes into the paresis of universal doubt.

But in the hours of silence, the Spirit of Wisdom whispers a secret to our hearts. Rest depends
upon conduct. The result of your life depends upon your choosing the good way and walking in it.

