Then the Prince came to himself, and cried, "By what charm have you made me forget what is
so important? Where shall I find the dog, and a horse swift enough for such a journey?" And
he was in great distress.

The White Cat comforted him, however, saying that the wooden horse would take him to his journey's
end sufficiently quickly, and that she would herself also provide the little dog; then she
handed to him a walnut, saying, "Put your ear to this shell and you will hear him barking."

So the Prince met his brothers, and they came into the King's presence.

The two elder sons had brought little dogs so delicate and small that one hardly dared to touch
them, and none could decide which should have the kingdom. Then the youngest took from his
pocket the nut the Cat had given to him, and there was seen a little dog so tiny that it could
go through a ring without touching it; he was also able to dance, and play the castanets, while
his ears touched the ground. The King was embarassed, for it was impossible to find a flaw
in this lovely little creature.

However as he did not desire to part with his crown, he declared that they had succeeded so
well in their first quest that now he should like them to search, by land and sea, for a piece
of linen so fine that it would pass through the eye of a very small needle.

Then the three Princes set out once more, but the youngest mounted his wooden horse and repaired
at once to the White Cat, who was rejoiced to see him, and the second year passed by as the
first had done.

When the day came round appointed by the King for the return of his sons, the two elder appeared
before him, and, without awaiting the arrival of their brother, displayed their pieces of linen,
which were of a fineness quite astonishing. But although they would pass through the eye of
a large needle, through the small needle the King had selected they would not go.

There was much murmuring at this, and while the brothers were disputing the King's decision,
a charming sound was heard of trumpets and other musical instruments.

It was the youngest Prince who arrived in a chariot with out-riders and numerous attendants,
all of which had been provided for him by the White Cat.

After respectfully greeting his father and embracing his brothers, he took out of a jewelled
box a nut which he broke. On breaking the nut he found a cherry stone, the stone was broken
and there was the kernel, in the kernel was a grain of corn, in the grain of corn a millet
seed, and within that a piece of linen so fine that it passed six times through the smallest
needle's eye, and moreover on it were exquisite paintings of people and places without number.

The King heaved a deep sigh, and turning to his children said,

"Nothing pleases me, in my old age, so much as your deference to my desires, and I wish to
prove you once more. Travel for a year, and he who at the end of the year brings home the most
beautiful girl shall marry her, and be crowned king on his marriage. I promise you that I will
not defer this reward any longer."

Our Prince saw the injustice of all this; his little dog and piece of linen were worth ten
kingdoms, not only one; but he was too well brought up to go against his father's wishes, and,
mounting into his chariot, with his retinue, he returned to the White Cat's Castle.

"Well! King's son!" said the White Cat, "you have returned once more without your crown?"

"Madam," answered the Prince, "your gifts should have gained it for me, but I am convinced
that the King would have more pain in giving it up than I should have pleasure in possessing it!"

"Never mind," she replied, "you shall not neglect anything that may deserve it; and if you
must conduct a beautiful girl to your father's court, I will look for one so that you may gain
the prize. Meanwhile let us be happy."

If the Cat had not taken pains to remember the time when he must return to the court, the Prince
would surely have forgotten it. On the evening before, she told him that she would bring him
to one of the most beautiful Princesses in the world, that at last the hour had arrived to
destroy the fatal work of an evil fairy, and to do this he must make up his mind to cut off
her head and tail, which he was at once to throw into the fire.

"I," cried the Prince, "Blanchette that I love: do you think I should be cruel enough to kill
you? No doubt, you wish to prove my heart which will certainly never forget what I owe to you
for your kindness."

"No! King's son," she continued, "I don't think you are ungrateful. Do this that I beseech
you, and then we shall begin to be happy with one another, by the faith and honour of a cat,
believe that I am truly your friend."

Tears flowed from the Prince's eyes even at the thought, and he said all that he could to avoid
it, but she urged him so vehemently that at last he took his sword and tremblingly cut off
the head and tail of his dear friend the Cat.

In the same moment took place the most marvellous change imaginable.

The body of the White Cat grew large, and was transformed into that of a girl; how, one could
not say; one only knew it was so. Her figure was majestic, her manners charming, her whole
appearance beautiful beyond words.

Then there entered an immense number of lords and ladies, who carrying their cats' skins, or
with them thrown across their shoulders, came and cast themselves at the feet of the Queen,
expressing their joy at seeing her again in her rightful form.

She received them all with a kindness which showed the goodness of her heart, and then turning
to the Prince she told the story of her life, and how by a wicked enchantment she had been
transformed into a White Cat.

"But it is you, my Prince, who have freed me," she concluded; "as soon as I saw you I knew
my troubles were at an end."

They set out forthwith in a splendid carriage. As they drew near the castle, at the place where
the three brothers were to meet, the Queen entered into a little crystal rock ornamented with
precious stones, and this was carried by richly dressed young men.

The Prince who had remained in the carriage, saw his brothers, approaching with wondrously
beautiful ladies.

On being questioned he told them that all he had brought was a little White Cat.

They began to laugh at him, and drove on followed by the young Prince, while after him was
brought the crystal rock.

Arrived at the Palace the two elder Princes dismounted with their marvellous Princesses.

The King received them graciously, and did not know to which to award the prize.

He looked at his youngest son and said, "This time, then, you have come alone." "Your Majesty
will see in this rock a little White Cat who mews sweetly and has soft little velvet paws,"
answered the Prince.

The King smiled, and himself went to open the rock. But, as he came near, the Queen, with a
touch, made it shatter to pieces, and from out of it she appeared like the sun that has been
hidden by clouds; her fair hair was spread over her shoulders, and fell in waves to her feet,
and she was robed in a gown of white and rose-colour.

She made a deep curtsey to the King who, struck with admiration, could not help exclaiming,

"Here is one who is matchless, and she deserves my crown."

"Sire," she answered, "I have not come to take away the throne that you fill with such dignity;
I was born heir to six kingdoms, allow me to offer you one, and one of them I give to each
of your sons. In return all I ask of you is this young Prince for my husband. We shall still
have three kingdoms."

The King and all the Court uttered loud cries of joy. The marriage was at once celebrated,
also that of the other two Princes; and in such a manner that the Court spent several months
in fêtes of all sorts.

Then each one of them departed to govern his kingdom, the White Cat making herself ever remembered
as much by her kindness and generosity as by her rare merit and beauty.

BLUEBEARD

In the long ago times, in a splendid house, surrounded by fine gardens and a park, there lived
a man who had riches in abundance, and everything to make him popular except one, and that
was his beard, for his beard was neither black as a raven's wing, golden as the sunlight, nor
just an ordinary every-day colour, but it was blue, bright blue.

Of course had blue beards come into fashion his would have been considered beautiful beyond
words, but, as far as we know, blue beards have never as yet been fashionable, nor are they
likely to be so.

However, in spite of his blue beard this man had married several times, though what had become
of his wives nobody could say.

Now, not far from Bluebeard's house there dwelt a widow with two very lovely daughters, and
one of these Bluebeard wished to marry, but which he did not mind, they might settle that between
themselves.

Neither of these girls had the least desire to have a husband with a blue beard, and also,
not knowing the fate of the other wives, they did not like to risk disappearing from the world
as those had done, but being very polite young women they would not refuse Bluebeard's proposals
outright. The younger said, "I would not for a moment take away Sister Anne's chance of marrying
such a wealthy man," while Sister Anne declared that, although the elder, she would much prefer
to give way to her sister. And so it went on for some time.

Then Bluebeard invited the widow and her daughters to spend a week with him, and many of their
neighbours he also invited.

Most sumptuous was the entertainment provided for them. Hunting and fishing expeditions, picnics
and balls went on from morning till night, and all the night through, so that there was not
time even to think of sleep, only feasting and pleasure the whole week long.

So well, indeed, did the younger sister enjoy this, that by the end of the week she had begun
to think perhaps after all her host's beard was not so very blue, and that it would be a fine
thing to be the mistress of such a magnificent mansion, and the wife of such a rich husband.

And so, not long afterwards, there was a grand wedding, and the widow's younger daughter became
Mrs. Bluebeard.

About a month later, Bluebeard told his wife that he must leave her for several weeks, having
to travel on business.

"While I am absent, my dear," said he, "invite your relations and friends and enjoy yourself
just as you please in entertaining them. See here are my keys, the keys of the rooms and of
the chests where I keep my money, my gold and silver plate, and my jewels. Unlock rooms and
chests and use freely what you will."

"This small key," he added, pointing to quite a little one, "is the key of the door at the
end of the lower landing, you will not need to use this at all. In fact, should you open that
door, or even put this key into the lock, I should be dreadfully angry, indeed I should make
you suffer for it in a terrible way."

Then Bluebeard bid his wife good-bye, and departed.

As soon as Mrs. Bluebeard's friends and relations knew that her husband was away, they came
flocking to visit her, for they longed to see all her splendid possessions, but had feared
to come before.

They could not enough admire the magnificent apartments, and ran from one to another praising
everything they beheld.

But the young wife heeded nothing they said or did, all she thought of was that little key
which she must not use, wondering more and more why she ought not to open that one particular door.

At last she could bear it no longer, but slipping away from her visitors, she ran along the
passages and stairs, nearly falling down them, so great was her haste, until she came to that
door at the end of the corridor.

Not pausing an instant, she thrust the key into the lock, and the door sprang open.

At first she could distinguish nothing, for the room was dark and gloomy, but then, all of
a sudden, she knew what had become of Bluebeard's other wives, for there they lay, in a long,
straight row, all dead. She stood horrified for a moment or two, gazing at the pale faces,
and long hair spread out around them, then picking up the little key which she had taken from
the lock but dropped in her fright, she hastily quitted the room, shut and locked the door,
and ran to her own chamber to calm herself before returning to her guests. But she was unable
to rest for an instant, so dreadful were her feelings; then with terror she noticed that on
the key there was a stain. She wiped it with her handkerchief, but alas! it was blood that
would not be wiped away. She washed the key and rubbed it, and scraped it and polished it,
but all to no purpose, if she succeeded in cleansing one side, the mark came out on the other.
For the key was enchanted.

That same evening Bluebeard returned saying he had met the man whom he was wanting to see,
and so the long journey was unnecessary, and he was rejoiced to be at home again.

Next morning he called for the keys; his wife brought them to him, but not the little one;
that she left behind. Bluebeard noticed this directly and sent her to fetch it. Trembling,
and white as a sheet, she was forced to give it into his hand.

"Ha! what is this?" he cried, "what is this stain that I see!"

His poor wife trembled still more, and could not speak.

"Wretched woman!" shouted Bluebeard, "you have used this key, you have unlocked the door of
that room at the end of the passage. You shall die!!!"

In vain did his wife plead with him to spare her, kneeling before him with tears streaming
from her eyes. "You shall die!" he cried again, more savagely than before.

"Let me have a few moments alone, to prepare for death,"

"Half a quarter of an hour, but not a moment longer," he replied, and left her.

The poor young woman hastened to a room at the foot of the turret stairs where was her Sister
Anne, and called to her.

"Sister Anne, Sister Anne, look from the tower window. Can you see no one coming?" And Sister
Anne, looking out, answered:

"Alas! No! Nothing but the green grass, and the sun which shines upon it."

Bluebeard shouted from below that the time was almost up.

"Sister Anne, Sister Anne, look once again, can you see no one coming?" whispered the young
wife wringing her hands. Her brothers, she knew, were to visit her that day--if only they would
come in time!

"Alas, No!" Sister Anne replied. "I see a cloud of dust, but it is only a flock of sheep on
the road."

But now Bluebeard bawled out so loudly for his wife to come down, that the whole house shook.

"Sister Anne, Sister Anne, tell me is no one coming?"

"I see two horsemen afar off," cried Sister Anne. "I will beckon to them to hasten hither."

But Bluebeard would wait not a moment longer, and nearly dead with terror his wife descended,
still entreating him to spare her life.

He would not, however, give heed to her prayers, and was just brandishing his sword, so that
it might come down straight and true upon her slender neck, when the door burst open and two
young army officers came rushing in, whom Bluebeard recognised as the brothers of his wife.
He swiftly fled, but they speedily followed, and for his many crimes slew him then and there.

All his wealth now belonged to his widow, and she gratefully rewarded her brothers by purchasing
them commissions in the army; she settled a large sum of money upon her sister, and after a
while she married again, and with a good husband lived a happy life.

BEAUTY AND THE BEAST

Once upon a time, a long while ago, there was a Beast.

He was a Great Beast, and lived in a Great Castle that stood in the middle of a Great Park,
and everybody in the country held the Beast in great fear. In fact everything about the Beast
was great; his roar was great and terrific and could be heard for miles around the park, and
when he roared the people trembled.

Nobody ever saw the Beast, which was by no means remarkable, for the Beast never came out of
his Park, and no one, I can assure you, ever ventured on to his estate.

But matters were not allowed to remain like this for ever, for something very wonderful happened
to the Beast and to somebody else, and if that something had not happened this story would
never have been written.

About two miles and three quarters from the Castle gates there lived a rich merchant and his
three daughters. The two elder girls were ugly disagreeable things, and although they had all
they could wish for to make them happy they were always grumbling; but the youngest daughter,
whose name was Beauty, was very pretty, and her nature was happy and good, her presence was
sunshine, and she was the joy of her father's heart.

Well, one day the two elder sisters had something to grumble about with a vengeance, for a
telegram arrived to say that the merchant was no longer a rich merchant, for he had lost all
his money.

So the horses and carriages had to be sold, and everything that was of value was got rid of,
the servants were sent away, and the merchant and his daughters had to do their own work.

Dear me, it was shocking, the way those two sisters grumbled, but Beauty, oh dear no, she was
all smiles, for her heart was as sunny as ever, as she rolled up the sleeves of her print frock,
and cooked the dinner, and scrubbed the floors, and made herself useful, here, there, and everywhere.

Things had been going on like this for about three months, when one fine morning another telegram
boy came with another telegram to say that somebody who owed the merchant a great deal of money
was ready to pay the debt, and all the merchant had to do was to go to the city and get it.

Of course, everybody was delighted at this good news, and the merchant didn't waste any time,
but started off to the city at once.

"Mind you bring me something back," said the eldest daughter as he was starting.

"What shall it be?" asked the merchant.

"A white satin dress trimmed with lace and pearls," said his eldest daughter.

"And you must bring me something too, please, father," said the second daughter.

"And what do you want," asked the merchant.

"A purse full of gold so that I can buy what I want myself," said the second daughter.

"I will try and do what you both ask," he said, "and what shall I bring for my Beauty?"

"I will wait a little for my dresses and things," replied the smiling Beauty, as she helped
her father on with his cloak, "but I should like you to bring me home a rose, a lovely red
rose, if you can."

So her father kissed her, and promised he would bring her the rose, and went on his way full
of hopes.

What a pity it is that our hopes cannot be always realized, and that we are so often doomed
to disappointment! When the merchant arrived at the city, to his dismay he found that the man
who owed him the money was still unable to pay him, the man had been disappointed himself at
the last moment.

So the unhappy father had to return home without the white satin dress trimmed with lace and
pearls, and without the bag of money, and he dreaded meeting his two daughters, for he knew
they would be terribly angry.

Now on his way home from the station to his house he had to pass by part of the wall that surrounded
the Great Park where the Great Beast lived in his Great Castle; and as he passed by a corner
of the wall what should he see hanging just over the top, and just within his reach if he stood
on his toes, but a lovely red rose.

"At any rate I can take my Beauty what she asked for," he said to himself, and, without so
much as giving a thought to the wrong he was doing, he stood on his toes and plucked the rose.

He was sorry he did it.

Of a sudden there was a roar, such a roar that the very ground shook, and as to the poor merchant
he quivered like a leaf.

Enough to make him quiver indeed, for a gate in the wall suddenly opened, and out rushed the Beast.

Yes, the Beast, if you please, and he seized the merchant by the scruff of his neck, and dragged
him into the Park, and shut the gate after him.

"Don't you know it's a sin to steal?" roared the Beast. "How dare you steal my roses? I am
going to kill you."

"Oh, mercy, Mr. Beast," cried the unhappy man, flinging himself on his knees before the monster.

"I'm going to kill you," roared the Beast still more loudly. "It's taken years to cultivate
this sort of rose, and--and I'm going to kill you. Unless," he added after a pause, "you send
me one of your daughters here instead."

"All right," said the merchant and got on his feet again.

"She must be here to-morrow by breakfast time, and I breakfast early," said the Beast, as he
let the merchant out of the gate. "If she is not here, I shall come for you, and don't you
forget it."

It was by no means likely that he would forget it, in fact he could think of nothing else.
He hurried home and told his dreadful news, and received a dreadful scolding from his two elder
daughters, who were angry at not getting their presents.

"And it is Beauty's fault that you have got into this trouble," they said. "Beauty and her
stupid rose. Beauty had better get you out of the trouble." Beauty said little, but smiled
on, with sunshine in her heart, and trust in her loving nature, and cooked the dinner.

Early next morning when the dawn was breaking she left her father's house, leaving a little
note behind her begging him not to be anxious but that she had gone to the Beast's castle.

When she came to the gate in the wall she knocked upon it three times and it opened as if by
magic, for she could see no one. And she stepped into the garden of red roses, and in the distance
across the Park she saw the Castle, and she thought she had never seen anything so beautiful.
For it was built of mother-of-pearl, and the red and yellow gleams of the rising sun shone
upon its glistening walls, and lit them up with a thousand radiant lights.

Beauty marvelled at the loveliness and walked on. And when she arrived at this beautiful Castle,
the huge gates opened as if by magic, and the doors opened as if by magic, for never a soul
did she see, nor living thing of any sort.

And in the great hall was the breakfast table laid for two. It was a nice breakfast with steaming
hot dishes, and jams, honey, and hot rolls, and brightly polished silver, and sweet flowers.

Then the Beast appeared suddenly from behind a curtain; oh, he was an awful Beast, and Beauty's
heart beat fast! But he seemed a polite Beast for all that.

He handed Beauty a chair, and when she had sat down said:

"I bid you welcome; which do you take, tea or coffee?"

"Tea please," answered Beauty.

"Then pour it out," he said, "and I'll take tea too, please. Eggs, do you like eggs hard or soft?"

"I always cook mine three minutes and a half," replied Beauty.

"Half a minute too much, I think. But you shall have just what you like."

And so she had; not only at the breakfast table but in everything. She had only to express
a wish and it was immediately gratified. She had ponies to ride, and dogs and cats, and pet
birds, and the most beautiful dresses ever worn by real princesses.

And if it had not been that she was away from her father she would really have been happy.

The Beast was most kind and attentive to her, and told her that he loved her, and three times
a day he asked her to marry him, but Beauty shook her head and said, oh no, she couldn't.

Well, Beauty had been at the great Castle some time when she began to pine to go home and see
her father, and she begged the Beast to let her go.

"Very good," he said with a great sigh, "you may go home to-day, but promise me that you will
be back early to-morrow morning. If you do not come back early I am sure I shall die for I
love you so dearly."

So Beauty promised and went home, and she took presents for her father and her sisters, and
when the sisters heard of all the wonderful things at the great Castle, they were envious and
jealous, and made up their minds to do Beauty and the Beast a great injury.

So they mixed something in Beauty's supper that made her sleep nearly all the next day, and
so she did not keep her promise. It was evening when she arrived at the gate in the wall, instead
of early morning.

But she knocked three times and the gate opened by magic, and she went through the garden and
hurried to the Castle, that shone like fire in the light of the setting sun. And the huge gates
opened by magic, and the doors opened by magic, and she stood in the great hall, but there
was no Beast there. She searched in all the rooms but he was not there; with fear and anxiety
in her heart she ran into the gardens, and there she found him at last. Found him lying stretched
out on the grass, and she thought he was dead.

"Oh, dear darling Beast," she cried, as she threw herself on her knees beside him, and raised
his ugly head, "dear Beast, do not die, for I love you with all my heart, and will marry you
to-morrow." And she kissed him. Then of a sudden he sprang to his feet, but no longer the Beast,
no longer a hideous monster, but a beautiful prince most beautifully dressed. "Dearest," he
said, "a wicked fairy turned me into this brute form until a day should come when a good girl
like you should tell me that she loved me. And you will marry me to-morrow."

"Oh, yes," answered Beauty, "but the wicked fairy could not change your nature. I would have
married you if you had remained just as you were."

And so they married and lived happy ever afterwards, and they took care of Beauty's father
until the end of his days; so he was happy, and they forgave the two sisters and gave them
fine dresses and jewels, and the two sisters turned over a new leaf and were less selfish,
and they were happy, so this is a very happy ending to the story.

What a pity all stories can't end the same way!

TUFTY RIQUET

There was once upon a time a Queen who had the ugliest little baby imaginable, so ugly, indeed,
that it was almost impossible to believe he was a little boy at all.

A fairy, however, assured his mother that the little baby would be very good and clever, saying
that she was also giving him a gift which would enable him to make that person whom he loved
the best as clever as himself.

This somewhat consoled the Queen, but still she was very unhappy because her son was so ugly,
though no sooner had he begun to speak than he could talk about all sorts of things, and he
had such pretty ways that people were charmed with him.

I forgot to say, that, when he was quite a baby, he had a funny little tuft of hair on his
head, so he was called Tufty Riquet, for Riquet was the family name.

When Riquet was about seven years old, the Queen of a kingdom near by was given two baby daughters,
twins, of which one was so exquisitely beautiful that the Queen nearly died of joy when she
saw her, and so the fairy, the same one who had given Riquet his gift of cleverness, to keep
the Queen from making herself ill with excitement, told her that this little Princess would
not be at all clever, indeed she would be as stupid as she was beautiful.

The Queen was very much grieved at this, and felt still more troubled when she beheld her other
daughter, for the second Princess was extremely ugly.

"Do not take it too much to heart, madam," remarked the fairy, "for this second daughter will
be so clever that it will scarcely be noticed that she is not beautiful."

"Well, if it must be so, it must," remarked the Queen, "but I should certainly have liked the
elder one, who is beautiful, to be just a little bit clever too."

"I can do nothing as to her mind, madam," replied the fairy, "but for her beauty I can, and
as there is nothing I would not do to please you, I will give her a gift so that she can make
the one who wins her heart beautiful too."

As the Princesses grew up, their gifts likewise grew with them, so that everybody spoke about
the beauty of the one and the cleverness of the other; but also their defects grew, so that
it could not but be noticed that the younger was daily uglier, and the elder day by day became
more stupid, until she either said nothing in reply to a question, or something quite silly,
and so clumsy was she that she could not arrange four china ornaments on the chimney piece
without breaking one, or drink a glass of water without spilling half of it on her frock.

Although it is a great thing to have beauty, yet the younger generally received more attention
in company than her elder sister.

At first, everybody would gather around the beautiful one admiringly, but before long they
would leave her for the clever Princess, to listen to her pleasant conversation; and by the
end of a quarter of an hour the elder would be left alone, while the other would be the centre
of a group.

This the elder sister noticed, in spite of her stupidity, and she would gladly have given all
her beauty for half the cleverness of her sister, and sometimes the Queen, although full of
kindness, would reproach her daughter for her foolishness, which caused the Princess almost
to die of grief.

One day when she had retreated to a wood to brood over her unhappiness, she saw a little man
coming towards her. He was uncommonly ugly and unpleasing in appearance, but was very richly
dressed.

It was the young Prince Tufty Riquet, who had fallen in love with the pictures he had seen
of her, and had left his father's kingdom for the sake of making her acquaintance.

Delighted to meet her alone in this manner, he accosted her as courteously as possible, but
soon, noticing that she was melancholy, he said:

"I cannot understand how it is that anyone as beautiful as you are, can be as sad as you appear
to be; for I must own, that although I can boast of having seen many beauties, not one have
I ever met whose beauty equalled yours."

"It pleases you to say so, sir," replied the Princess, and relapsed into silence.

"Beauty," went on Riquet, "is so delightful that one would give everything for it, and if anyone
is beautiful I can't understand anything troubling greatly."

"I would rather be as ugly as you," answered the Princess, "and be clever, than as beautiful
as I am, and be stupid."

"To think you are stupid is a sure sign that you have a certain amount of cleverness, madam,"
replied Riquet.

"I don't think about that," said the Princess, "but I am quite sure that I am very silly, and
the grief of that is killing me."

"If that is all that troubles you, I can soon put an end to your grief," said Riquet, "for
I have the power of giving cleverness to the person whom I love the best, and if only you will
marry me, you shall become as clever as you can wish."

The Princess was greatly astonished, but remained silent.

"I can see," continued Riquet, "that this proposal is not to your taste, and I am not astonished.
I will give you a year to think about it."

