"I don't think it would have," declared Cynthia, sceptically. "I never would have connected
anything in the paper with what happened here."

"Sherlock Holmes would have," mused Joyce. "Well, anyway, we got at the story in another fashion.
But oh, Cynthia, will we ever know about the locked-up room?" As Cynthia could cast no further
light on this vexed question, they were forced to drop it.

Then came spring, and the ancient cherry-trees in the enclosure back of the Boarded-up House
blossomed anew. One brilliant Saturday morning early in May, the girls clambered through the
fence with their books and fancy-work, to spend some of the shining hour under the white canopy
of blossoms. They were reading aloud the "Sign of Four," (they inclined much toward mystery
and detective stories at this time) turn and turn about, while the one who not have the book
sewed or embroidered. Presently Joyce laid down the volume with a big sigh.

"Oh, I wish I were Sherlock Holmes!"

"Mercy! what for?" cried Cynthia. "I'm sure I don't!"

"Why, do you suppose Sherlock would have been all this time getting at the final facts about
our Boarded-up House? Of course not! He'd have had it all worked out and proved by now!" Joyce
got to her feet and began roaming about restlessly. Suddenly she stopped in front of her companion.

"I tell you, Cynthia, it haunts me! I can't explain to you why, but I feel there is something
we haven't discovered yet,--something we ought to know. It isn't just 'idle curiosity' as Professor
Marlow would call it! I never knew or heard of anything that went so--so deep in me as this
thing has. That poor, loving, proud mother, and her terrible misunderstanding with her splendid
son!-- He was right, too, I can't help but think. But was she in the wrong? I suppose we can't
judge about how people felt in those days. The whole thing is so different now,--all forgotten
and forgiven! But I've read that the Confederates considered their cause almost a--a religion.
So of course she would have felt the shock of what her son did, terribly. And think how he
must have felt, too!

"And then to lose his life, almost in the beginning! Perhaps he and his mother might have made
it all up after the war was over, if he'd only lived. It's--it's the saddest thing I ever heard!"
Cynthia had risen too, and they linked arms, strolling up and down the little orchard as they
talked.

"I feel exactly as you do about it, though I don't often speak of it," said Cynthia. "But,
by the way, did it ever strike you that we might find it interesting to look over some of the
books in that old library? Some of them looked very attractive to me. And even if it didn't
lead to anything, at least it would be good fun to examine them. I love old books! Why not
do it this afternoon?"

"Just the thing!" agreed Joyce. "I've thought of that too, but we've never had much chance
to do it, till now. This afternoon, right after lunch!"

So the afternoon found them again in the dim, musty old library, illuminating the scene extravagantly
with five candles. Three sides of the room were lined with book-shelves, reaching nearly to
the ceiling. The girls surveyed the bewildering rows of books, puzzled where to begin.

"Oh, come over here!" decided Joyce, choosing the side opposite the fireplace. "These big volumes
look so interesting." She brushed the thick dust off their backs, revealing the titles. "Look!--
They're all alike, with red backs and mottled sides." She opened one curiously. "Why!--they're
called 'Punch'! What a strange name! What kind of books can they be?" And then, on further
examination,--"Oh! I see. It's a collection of English papers full of jokes and politics and
that sort of thing. And this one is from way back in 1850 Why, Cynthia, these are the most
interesting things!--"

But Cynthia had already extracted another volume and was absorbed in it, chuckling softly over
the old-time humor. Joyce grouped the five candles on the floor and they sat down beside them,
from time to time pulling out fresh volumes, reading aloud clever jokes to each other, and
enjoying themselves immensely, utterly unconscious of the passing moments.

At length they found they had skimmed through all the volumes of "Punch," the last of which
was dated 1860, and had them piled up on the floor beside them. This left a long space on the
shelf from which they came, and the methodical Cynthia presently rose to put them back. As
she fitted in the first volume, her eye was suddenly caught by something back of the shelves,
illuminated in the flickering candle-light.

"Joyce, come here!" she called in a voice of suppressed excitement. And Joyce, who had wandered
to another corner, came over in a hurry.

"What is it?"

"Look in there!" Joyce snatched a candle and held it close to the opening made by the books.
Then she gave a long, low whistle.

"What do you make of it?" demanded Cynthia.

"Just what it is! And that's as 'plain as a pikestaff'--a keyhole!" Cynthia nodded.

"Yes, but what a strange place for it--back of those shelves!--" They brought another candle
and examined the wall back of the shelves more carefully. There was certainly a keyhole--a
rather small one--and around it what appeared to be the paneling of a door, only partially
visible through the shreds of old, torn wall-paper that had once covered it.

"I have it!" cried Joyce, at length. "At least, I think this may be an explanation. That's
a small door, without a doubt,--perhaps to some unused closet. Maybe there was a time, when
this house was new, when this room wasn't a library. Then somebody wanted to make it into a
library, and fill all this side of the room with book-shelves. But that door was in the way.
So they had it all papered over, and just put the shelves in front of it, as though it had
never been there. You see the paper has fallen away, probably through dampness,--and the mice
seem to have eaten it too. And here's the keyhole! Isn't it lucky we just happened to take
the books out that were in front of it!"

"But what are we going to do about it?" questioned Cynthia.

"Do? Why, there's just one thing to do, and that is move the shelves out somehow,--they seem
to be movable, just resting on those end-supports,--and get at that door!"

"But suppose it's locked?"

"We'll have to take a chance on that! Come on! We can't move these books and shelves away fast
enough to suit me!"

They fell to work with a zest the like of which they had not known since their first entrance
into the Boarded-up House. It was no easy task to remove the armfuls of books necessary to
get at the door behind, and then push and shove and struggle with the dusty shelves. In a comparatively
short time, however, the floor behind them was littered with volumes hastily deposited, and
the shelves for a space nearly as high as their heads were removed. Then they tore at the mouldy
shreds of wall-paper till the entire frame of the paneled wooden doorway was free. Handle there
was none, it having doubtless been removed when the place was papered. There seemed, consequently,
no way to open the door. But Cynthia was equal to this emergency.

"I've seen an old chisel in the kitchen. We might pry it open with that," she suggested.

"Go and get it!" commanded Joyce, bursting with excitement. "I think this is going to be either
a secret cupboard or room!"

Cynthia seized a candle and hurried away, coming back breathless with the rusty tool.

"Now for it!" muttered Joyce. She grasped the chisel and inserted it in the crack, pushing
on it with all her might. But the door resisted, and Cynthia was just uttering the despairing
cry,--

"Oh, it's locked too!" when it suddenly gave way, with a wholly unexpected jerk, and flew open
emitting a cloud of dust.

"Mercy!" exclaimed Joyce, between two sneezes, "That almost knocked me off my feet. Did you
ever see so much dust!" Snatching the candles again, they both sprang forward, expecting to
gaze into the dusty interior of some long unused cupboard or closet. They had no sooner put
their heads into the opening, than they started back with a simultaneous cry.

The door opened on a tiny, narrow stairway, ascending into the dimness above!

CHAPTER XI

THE ROOM THAT WAS LOCKED

Before Cynthia could realize what had happened or was happening, Joyce seized her and began
waltzing madly around the library, alternately laughing, sobbing, hugging, and shaking her
distractedly.

"Stop, stop, Joyce! Please!" she begged breathlessly. "Have you gone crazy? You act so! What
is the matter?"

"Matter!-- You ask me that?" panted Joyce. "You great big stupid!--Why, we've discovered the
way to the locked-up room!-- That's what's the matter!" Cynthia looked incredulous.

"Why, certainly!" continued Joyce. "Can't you see? You know that room is right over this. Where
else could those stairs lead, then? But come along! We'll settle all doubts in a moment!" She
snatched up a candle again and led the way, Cynthia following without more ado.

"Oh, Joyce! It's horribly dirty and stuffy and cobwebby in here! Couldn't we wait a few moments
till some air gets in?" implored Cynthia in a muffled voice.

"I sha'n't wait a moment, but you may if you wish," called back Joyce. "But I know you won't!
Mind your head! These are the tiniest, lowest stairs I've ever seen!" They continued to crawl
slowly up, their candles flickering low in the impoverished air of the long-inclosed place.

"What if we can't open the door at the top?" conjectured Cynthia. "What if it's behind some
heavy piece of furniture?"

"We'll just have to get in somehow!" responded Joyce. "I've gone so far now, that I believe
I'd be willing to break things open with a charge of dynamite, if we couldn't get in any other
way! Here I am, at the top. Now you hold my candle, and we'll see what happens!" She handed
her candle to Cynthia, braced herself, and threw her whole weight against the low door, which
was knobless like the one below.

Then came the surprise. She had expected resistance, and prepared to cope with it. To her utter
amazement, there was a ripping, tearing sound, and she found herself suddenly prone upon the
floor of the most mysterious room in the house! The reason for this being that the door at
the top was covered on the inner side with only a layer or two of wall-paper, and no article
of furniture happened to stand in front of it. Consequently it had yielded with ease at the
tremendous shove Joyce had given it, and she found herself thus forcibly and ignominiously
propelled into the apartment.

"My!" she gasped, sitting up and dusting her hands, "but that was sudden! I don't care, though!
I'm not a bit hurt, and--we're in!" They were indeed "in"! The mysterious, locked room was
at last to yield up its secret to them. They experienced a delicious thrill of expectation,
as, with their candles raised above their heads, they peered eagerly about.

Now, what they had expected to find within that mysterious room, they could not perhaps have
explained with any definiteness. Once they stood within the threshold, however, they became
slowly conscious of a vague disappointment. Here was nothing so very strange, after all! The
room appeared to be in considerable disorder, and articles of clothing, books, and boyish belongings
were tossed about, as in a hurry of packing. But beyond this, there was nothing much out of
the ordinary about it.

"Well," breathed Cynthia at length. "Is this what we've been making all the fuss about!"

"Wait!" said Joyce. "You can't see everything just at one glance. Let's look about a little.
Oh, what a dreadful hole we've made in the wall-paper! Well, it can't be helped now, and it's
the only damage we've done." They commenced to tiptoe about the room, glancing curiously at
its contents.

It was plainly a boy's room. A pair of fencing-foils hung crossed on one wall, a couple of
boxing-gloves on another. College trophies decorated the mantel. On a center-table stood a
photograph or daguerreotype in a large oval frame. When Cynthia had wiped away the veil of
dust that covered it, with the dust-cloth she had thoughtfully tucked in her belt, the girls
bent over it.

"Oh, Cynthia!" cried Joyce. "Here they are--the Lovely Lady and her boy. He must have been
about twelve then. What funny clothes he wore! But isn't he handsome! And see how proudly she
looks at him. Cynthia, how could he bear to leave this behind! I shouldn't have thought he'd
ever want to part with it."

"Probably he went in such a hurry that he couldn't think of everything, and left this by mistake.
Or he may even have had another copy," Cynthia added in a practical after-thought.

Garments of many descriptions, and all of old-time cut, were flung across the bed, and on the
floor near it lay an open valise, half packed with books.

"He had to leave that too, you see, or perhaps he intended to send for it later," commented
Joyce. "Possibly he didn't realize that his mother was going to shut up the house and leave
it forever. Here's his big, businesslike-looking desk, and in pretty good order too. I suppose
he hadn't used it much, as he was so little at home. It's open, though." She began to dust
the top, where a row of school-books were arranged, and presently came to the writing-tablet,
which she was about to polish off conscientiously. Suddenly she paused, stared, rubbed at something
with her duster, and bending close, stared again. In a moment she raised her head and called
in a low voice:

"Cynthia, come here!" Cynthia, who had been carefully dusting the college trophies on the mantel,
hurried to her side.

"What is it? What have you found?" Joyce only pointed to a large sheet of paper lying on the
blotter. It was yellow with age and covered with writing in faded ink,--writing in a big, round,
boyish hand. It began,--

"My dearest Mother--" Cynthia drew back with a jerk, scrupulously honorable, as usual. "Ought
we to read it, Joyce? It's a letter!"

"I did," whispered Joyce. "I couldn't help it for I didn't realize what it was at first. I
don't think it will harm. Oh, Cynthia, read it!" And Cynthia, doubting no longer, read aloud:

     MY DEAREST MOTHER,--the best and loveliest thing in my life,--I
     leave this last appeal here, in the hope that you will see it
     later, read it, and forgive me. We have had bitter words, but I am
     leaving you with no anger in my heart, and nothing but love. That
     we shall not see each other again in this life, I feel certain.
     Therefore I want you to know that, to my last hour, I shall love
     you truly, devotedly. I am so sure I am right, and I have pledged
     my word. I cannot take back my promise. I never dreamed that you
     feel as you do about this cause. My mother, my own mother, forgive
     me, and God keep you.

  Your son,
  FAIRFAX.

When Cynthia had ended, there was a big lump in Joyce's throat, and Cynthia herself coughed
and flourished a handkerchief about her face with suspicious ostentation. Suddenly she burst out:

"I think that woman must have had a--a heart of stone, to be so unforgiving to her son--after
reading this!"

"She never saw it!" announced Joyce, with a positiveness that made Cynthia stare.

"Well!-- I'd like to know how you can say a thing like that!" Cynthia demanded at once. "It
lay right there for her to see!"

"How do you account for this room being locked?" parried Joyce, answering the question, Yankee
fashion, by asking another. Cynthia pondered a moment.

