A complete list is found at
      the end of the text.

Papers of the Peabody Museum of American Archaeology and Ethnology, Harvard University Vol.
IV.--No. 1

REPRESENTATION OF DEITIES OF THE MAYA MANUSCRIPTS

by

DR. PAUL SCHELLHAS

Second Edition, Revised With 1 Plate of Figures and 65 Text Illustrations

Translated by Miss Selma Wesselhoeft and Miss A. M. Parker

Translation revised by the Author

Cambridge, Mass. Published by the Museum December, 1904.

NOTE.

In order to make more widely known and more easily accessible to American students the results
of important researches on the Maya hieroglyphs, printed in the German language, the Peabody
Museum Committee on Central American Research proposes to publish translations of certain papers
which are not too lengthy or too extensively illustrated. The present paper by one of the most
distinguished scholars in this field is the first of the series.

                                         F. W. PUTNAM.
Harvard University
           September, 1904.

PREFACE.

Since the first edition of this pamphlet appeared in the year 1897, investigation in this department
of science has made such marked progress, notwithstanding the slight amount of material, that
a revision has now become desirable. It can be readily understood, that a new science, an investigation
on virgin soil, such as the Maya study is, makes more rapid progress and develops more quickly
than one pertaining to some old, much explored territory.

In addition to numerous separate treatises, special mention should be made of Ernst Förstemann's
commentaries on the three Maya manuscripts (Kommentar zur Mayahandschrift der Königlichen öffentlichen
Bibliothek zu Dresden, Dresden 1901, Kommentar zur Madrider Mayahandschrift, Danzig 1902, and
Kommentar zur Pariser Mayahandschrift, Danzig 1903) which constitute a summary of the entire
results of investigation in this field up to the present time.

The proposal made in the first edition of this pamphlet, that the Maya deities be designated
by letters of the alphabet, has been very generally adopted by Americanists, especially by
those in the United States of America. This circumstance, in particular, has seemed to make
it desirable to prepare for publication a new edition, improved to accord with the present
state of the science.

Warmest thanks are above all due to Mr. Bowditch, of Boston, who in the most disinterested
manner, for the good of science, has made possible the publication of this new edition.

January, 1904.                             P. SCHELLHAS.

THE MATERIAL OF THE MANUSCRIPTS.

The three manuscripts which we possess of the ancient Maya peoples of Central America, the
Dresden (Dr.), the Madrid (Tro.-Cort.) and the Paris (Per.) manuscripts, all contain a series
of pictorial representations of human figures, which, beyond question, should be regarded as
figures of gods. Together with these are a number of animal figures, some with human bodies,
dress and armor, which likewise have a mythologic significance.

The contents of the three manuscripts, which undoubtedly pertain to the calendar system and
to the computation of time in their relation to the Maya pantheon and to certain religious
and domestic functions, admit of the conclusion, that these figures of gods embody the essential
part of the religious conceptions of the Maya peoples in a tolerably complete form. For here
we have the entire ritual year, the whole chronology with its mythological relations and all
accessories. In addition to this, essentially the same figures recur in all three manuscripts.
Their number is not especially large. There are about fifteen figures of gods in human form
and about half as many in animal form. At first we were inclined to believe that further researches
would considerably increase the number of deities, but this assumption was incorrect. After
years of study of the subject and repeated examination of the results of research, it may be
regarded as positively proved, that the number of deities represented in the Maya manuscripts
does not exceed substantially the limits mentioned above. The principal deities are determined
beyond question.

The way in which this was accomplished is strikingly simple. It amounts essentially to that
which in ordinary life we call "memory of persons" and follows almost naturally from a careful
study of the manuscripts. For, by frequently looking attentively at the representations, one
learns by degrees to recognize promptly similar and familiar figures of gods, by the characteristic
impression they make as a whole, or by certain details, even when the pictures are partly obliterated
or exhibit variations, and the same is true of the accompanying hieroglyphs. A purely inductive,
natural science-method has thus been followed, and hence this pamphlet is devoted simply to
descriptions and to the amassing of material. These figures have been taken separately out
of the manuscripts alone, identified and described with the studious avoidance of all unreliable,
misleading accounts and of all presumptive analogies with supposedly allied mythologies.

Whatever cannot be derived from the manuscripts themselves has been wholly ignored. Hypotheses
and deductions have been avoided as far as possible. Only where the interpretation, or the
resemblance and the relations to kindred mythologic domains were obvious, and where the accounts
agreed beyond question, has notice been taken of the fact so that the imposed limitations of
this work should not result in one-sidedness.

Since, for the most part, the accounts of Spanish authors regarding the mythology of the Mayas
correspond only slightly or not at all with these figures of gods, and all other conjectures
respecting their significance are very dubious, the alphabetic designation of the deities,
which was tentatively introduced in the first edition of this work, has been preserved. This
designation has proved to be practical. For the plate at the end of this pamphlet, examples
as characteristic as possible of the individual figures of gods have been selected from the
manuscripts.

It is a well known fact that we possess no definite knowledge either of the time of the composition
or of the local origin of the Maya manuscripts. The objection might, therefore, be raised that
it is a hazardous proceeding to treat the material derived from these three manuscripts in
common, as if it were homogeneous. But these researches themselves have proved beyond a doubt,
that the mythologic import of the manuscripts belongs to one and the same sphere of thought. He
looked searchingly of Hollis. "i've ne'er set you found them renders
at in," he said.

"Who are you?"

"i am Kent Hollis." The man's peeper of the manuscripts.

"not Jim
s junior?" he asked. Hollis nodded. The material's countenance are
revealed old pain. In this field especial credit is due to Förstemann and Seler, for the
work they have done in furtherance of interpretation, and mention should not be omitted of
the generosity with which the well known promoter of Americanist investigations, the Duke of
Loubat, has presented to the Berlin Museum of Ethnology costly originals of reliefs and inscriptions
for direct study. The representations on the reliefs from the Maya region, it is true, give
evidence of dealing with kindred mythologic conceptions. Figures and hieroglyphs of gods, made
familiar by the manuscripts, can also be found here and there. But on the whole so little appears
in support of instituting a comparison with the manuscripts, that it seems expedient to leave
the inscriptions for independent and special study.

I. REPRESENTATIONS OF GODS.

A. The Death-God.

God A is represented as a figure with an exposed, bony spine, truncated nose and grinning teeth.[10-1]
It is plainly to be seen that the head of this god represents a skull and that the spine is
that of a skeleton. The pictures of the death-god are so characteristic in the Maya manuscripts
that the deity is always easily recognized. He is almost always distinguished by the skeleton
face and the bony spine. Several times in the Dresden manuscript the death-god is pictured
with large black spots on his body and in Dr. 19b a woman with closed eyes, whose body also
displays the black spots, is sitting opposite the god. While the Aztecs had a male and a female
death-deity, in the Maya manuscripts we find the death-deity only once represented as feminine,
namely on p. 9c of the Dresden manuscript. Moreover the Dresden manuscript contains several
different types of the death-god, having invariably the fleshless skull and (with the exception
of Dr. 9c) the visible vertebrae of the spine. Several times (Dr. 12b and 13b) he is represented
apparently with distended abdomen. A distinguishing article of his costume is the stiff feather
collar, which is worn only by this god, his companion, the war-god F, and by his animal symbol,
the owl, which will both be discussed farther on. His head ornament varies in the Dresden Codex;
in the first portion of the manuscript, relating in part to pregnancy and child-birth (see
the pictures of women on p. 16, et seq.), he wears on his head several times a figure occurring
very frequently just in this part of the Dresden Codex and apparently representing a snail
(compare Dr. 12b and 13b), which among the Aztecs is likewise a symbol of parturition. In view
of these variations in the pictures of the Dresden Codex, it is very striking that in the Codex
Tro.-Cortesianus, there is only one invariable type of the death-god.

    [10-1] See Plate for representations of the gods, A-P

A distinguishing ornament of the death-god consists of globular bells or rattles, which he
wears on his hands and feet, on his collar and as a head ornament. As can be distinctly seen
in Dr. 11a, they are fastened with bands wound around the forearm and around the leg; in Dr.
15c these bells are black.

Among the symbols of the death-god a cross of two bones should be mentioned, which is also
found in the Mexican manuscripts. This cross of bones seems to occur once among the written
characters as a hieroglyph and then in combination with a number: Tro. 10.* The figure [Death-god
symbol] is also a frequent symbol of the death-god. Its significance is still uncertain, but
it also occurs among the hieroglyphs as a death-sign and as a sign for the day Cimi (death).

The hieroglyphs of the death-god have been positively determined (see Figs. 1 to 4). Figs.
1 and 2 are the forms of the Dresden manuscript and Figs. 3 and 4 are those of the Madrid manuscript.
God A is almost always distinguished by two hieroglyphs, namely Figs. 1 and 2 or 3 and 4. Moreover
the hieroglyphs are always the same, have scarcely any variants. Even in Dr. 9c, where the
deity is represented as feminine, there are no variations which might denote the change of
sex. The hieroglyphs consist chiefly of the head of a corpse with closed eyes, and of a skull.
The design in front of the skull in Figs. 2 and 4 and under it in Fig. 3 is a sacrificial knife
of flint, which was used in slaying the sacrifices, and is also frequently pictured in the
Aztec manuscripts. The dots under Fig. 1 are probably intended to represent blood.

The death-god is represented with extraordinary frequency in all the Maya manuscripts. Not
only does the figure of the god itself occur, but his attributes are found in many places where
his picture is missing. Death evidently had an important significance in the mythologic conceptions
of the Mayas. It is connected with sacrifice, especially with human sacrifices performed in
connection with the captive enemy. Just as we find a personification of death in the manuscripts
of the Mayas, we also find it in the picture-writings of the ancient Mexicans, often surprisingly
like the pictures of the Maya codices. The Aztec death-god and his myth are known through the
accounts of Spanish writers; regarding the death-god of the Mayas we have less accurate information.
Some mention occurs in Landa's Relacion de las cosas de Yucatan, §XXIII, but unfortunately
nothing is said of the manner of representing the death-god. He seems to be related to the
Aztec Mictlantecutli, of whom Sahagun, Appendix to Book III, "De los que iban al infierno y
de sus obsequias," treats as the god of the dead and of the underworld, Mictlan. When the representations
of the latter, for example in the Codex Borgia, and in the Codex Vaticanus No. 3773, are compared
with those of the Maya manuscripts, there can be hardly a doubt of the correspondence of the
two god figures. In the Codex Borgia, p. 37, he is represented once with the same characteristic
head ornament, which the death-god usually wears in the Maya manuscripts, and in the Codex
Fejervary, p. 8, the death-god wears a kind of breeches on which cross-bones are depicted,
exactly as in Dr. 9 (bottom).

Bishop Landa informs us that the Mayas "had great and immoderate dread of death." This explains
the frequency of the representations of the death-god, from whom, as Landa states, "all evil
and especially death" emanated. Among the Aztecs we find a male and a female death-deity, Mictlantecutli
and Mictlancihuatl. They were the rulers of the realm of the dead, Mictlan, which, according
to the Aztec conception, lay in the north; hence the death-god was at the same time the god
of the north.

It agrees with the calendric and astronomic character of the Maya deities in the manuscripts,
that a number of the figures of the gods are used in connection with specified cardinal points.
Since, according to the Aztec conception, the death-god was the god of the north, we might
expect that in the Maya manuscripts also, the death-god would be always considered as the deity
of the north. Nevertheless this happens only once, namely in the picture at the end of Codex
Cort., pp. 41 and 42. Elsewhere, on the other hand, this god is connected with other cardinal
points, thus Dr. 14a with the west or east (the hieroglyph is illegible, but it can be only
west or east), and in Dr. 27c with the west. It is interesting to note that once, however,
in a series of cardinal points, the hieroglyph of the death-god connected with the numeral
10 stands just in the place of the sign of the north; this is on Tro. 24* (bottom).

In regard to the name of the death-god in the Maya language, Landa tells us that the wicked
after death were banished to an underworld, the name of which was "Mitnal", a word which is
defined as "Hell" in the Maya lexicon of Pio Perez and which has a striking resemblance to
Mictlan, the Aztec name for the lower regions. The death-god Hunhau reigned in this underworld.
According to other accounts (Hernandez), however, the death-god is called Ahpuch. These names
can in no wise serve as aids to the explanation of the hieroglyphs of the death-god, since
they have no etymologic connection with death or the heads of corpses and skulls, which form
the main parts of the hieroglyph. Furthermore, the hieroglyphs of the gods certainly have a
purely ideographic significance as already mentioned above, so that any relation between the
names of the deities and their hieroglyphs cannot exist from the very nature of the case.

The day of the death-god is the day Cimi, death. The day-sign Cimi corresponds almost perfectly
with the heads of corpses contained in the hieroglyphs of the death-god.

A hieroglyphic sign, which relates to death and the death-deity and occurs very frequently,
is the sign Fig. 5, which is probably to be regarded as the ideogram of the owl. It represents
the head of an owl, while the figure in front of it signifies the owl's ear and the one below,
its teeth, as distinguishing marks of a bird of prey furnished with ears and a powerful beak.
The head of the owl appears on a human body several times in the Dresden manuscript as a substitute
for the death-deity, thus Dr. 18c, 19c, 20a and 20c and in other places, and the hieroglyphic
group (Fig. 5) is almost a regular attendant hieroglyph of the death-god.

A series of other figures of the Maya mythology is connected with the death-god. This is evident
from the fact that his hieroglyphs or his symbols occur with certain other figures, which are
thus brought into connection with death and the death-deity.

These figures are as follows:

1. His companion, god F, the god of war, of human sacrifice and of violent death in battle,
apparently a counterpart of the Aztec Xipe, who will be discussed farther on. 

"of course you are Jim Hollis's boy!" he said, finishing his inspection.
Toward.

Hollis's bird he stepped quickly tightly and grasped the hand latter
the offered him, squeezing it forward.

He swept his hand of the case. "you are the image around him!" It is blindfolded and thus recalls the Aztec
deity of frost and sin, Itztlacoliuhqui. A similar form with eyes bound occurs only once again
in the Maya manuscripts, namely Dr. 50 (centre). That this figure is related to the death-god
is proved by the fact that on Dr. 9a it wears the Cimi-sign on the middle piece of the chain
around its neck. Furthermore it should be emphasized that the Aztec sin-god, Itztlacoliuhqui,
likewise appears with symbols of death.

5. An isolated figure, Dr. 50a (the sitting figure at the right). This wears the skull as head
ornament, which is represented in exactly the same way as in the Aztec manuscripts (see Fig. 6).

6. Another isolated figure is twice represented combined with the death-god in Dr. 22c. This
picture is so effaced that it is impossible to tell what it means. The hieroglyph represents
a variant of the death's-head, Cimi. It seems to signify an ape, which also in the pictures
of the Mexican codices was sometimes used in relation to the death-god.

