Margery is very much struck with the words of the Gospel, despite the hostility of all around
her.  Everyone was far too afraid of the extreme punishment meted out by "Holy Church" to those
who questioned its teachings.  And Margery ends up by being burnt at the stake for her belief
in the Gospel, as opposed to what was taught by the Church.

But you will learn a lot about upper-class life in the early years of the fifteenth century,
and if you can put up with the forms of speech, you will gain thereby.  Not recommended for
audiobook, since a great deal of editing, such as removal of footnotes, conversion of mediaeval
speech to modern, and so forth.

MISTRESS MARGERY, A TALE OF THE LOLLARDS, BY EMILY SARAH HOLT.

CHAPTER ONE.

A REGULAR OF OXENFORDE.

  "Give me the book, and let me read;
  My soul is strangely stirred--
  They are such words of love and truth
  As ne'er before I heard!"

  Mary Howitt.

The sun was shining brightly on the battlements and casements of Lovell Tower.  The season
was spring, and the year 1395.  Within the house, though it was barely seven o'clock in the
morning, all was bustle and confusion, for Dame Lovell was superintending her handmaidens in
the preparation of dinner.  A buxom woman was Dame Lovell, neither tall nor short, but decidedly
stout, with a round, good-natured face, which just then glowed and burned under the influence
of the fire roaring on the large grateless hearth.  She wore a black dress, heavily trimmed
at the bottom with fur, and she carried on her head one of those remarkable elevations generally
known as the Syrian or conical head-dress, made of black stiffened gauze, and spangled with
golden stars.  Her assistants, mostly girls of from sixteen to twenty-five years of age, were
occupied in various parts of the kitchen; while Mistress Katherine, a staid-looking woman of
middle age, who filled a post somewhat similar to the modern one of housekeeper, was employed
at a side table in mixing some particularly elaborate compound.  Among this busy throng moved
Dame Lovell, now giving a stir to a pot, and now peeping into a pan, boxing the ears of any
maiden who appeared remiss in her duty, and generally keeping up a strict and active supervision.

"Nan, thy leeks be not hewn small enough.  Cicely, look to the pottage, that it boil not over.
Al'ce, thou idle jade!"--with a sound box on the ear,--"thou hast left out the onions in thy
blanch-porre!  Margery! Madge!  Why, Madge, I say!  Where is Mistress Margery, maidens?  Joan,
lass, hie thee up, and see whether Mistress Margery be not in the chamber."

Joan, a diminutive girl of sixteen, quitted the parsley she was chopping, and ran lithely out
of the room, to which she soon returned, and, dropping a courtesy, announced that "Mistress
Margery was in her chamber, and was coming presently,"--which latter word, in the year 1395,
meant not "by and by," as it now does, but "at present."  Mistress Margery verified the assertion
of Joan by following her into the kitchen almost immediately.  And since Mistress Margery is
to play the important part of heroine, it may be well to devote a few words to her person and
costume.  She is the only child of Sir Geoffrey Lovell, Knight, and Dame Agnes Lovell, and
is now seventeen years of age; rather under the middle height, slenderly formed, with an appearance
of great fragility and delicacy; her complexion is very fair, of that extreme fairness which
often betokens disease, and her face almost colourless.  Her features are regular, and classical
in their contour; her eyes are a clear grey-- honest, truthful eyes, that look straight at
you; and her hair, which is almost long enough, when let down, to touch her feet, is of that
pale golden colour so much celebrated in the Middle Ages, and so very rarely to be seen now.
Mistress Margery's attire comprises a black dress, so stiff, partly from its own richness of
material, and partly with whalebone, that it is quite capable of standing upright without any
assistance from Mistress Margery's person.  Its trimming consists of a border of gris, or marten's
fur; and over this black petticoat the young lady wears a cote-hardie, or close-fitting jacket,
also edged with gris. Her head is not encumbered by the steeplecap which disfigures her mother;
instead of it she wears the beautiful "dove-cote," a net of golden tissue, ornamented with
pearls, within which her hair is confined.

It may also be as well to notice here, that Mistress Margery is highly accomplished.  Of course
she can play the lute, and sing, and work elaborate and delicate embroidery, and compound savoury
dishes; and equally of course does she know any nobleman or gentleman by a glance at his shield,
and can tell you in a moment to whom belong the three lions rampant sable, and who owns the
bend engrailed argent on a field gules. These are but the ordinary acquirements of a gentlewoman;
but our heroine knows more than this.  Mistress Margery can read; and the handmaidens furthermore
whisper to each other, with profound admiration of their young mistress's extraordinary knowledge,
that Mistress Margery can write.  Dame Lovell cannot do either; but Sir Geoffrey, who is a
literary man, and possesses a library, has determined that his daughter shall receive a first-rate
education.  Sir Geoffrey's library is a very large one, for it consists of no less than forty-two
volumes, five of which are costly illuminated manuscripts, and consist of the Quest of the
Sangraal [see Note 1], the Travels of Sir John Maundeville, the Chronicle of Matthew Paris,
Saint Augustine's City of God, and a Breviary.  Dame Lovell has no Breviary, and as she could
not read it if she had, does not require one; but Margery, having obtained her father's permission
to do so, has employed her powers of writing and illuminating in making an elaborate copy of
his Breviary for her own use; and from an illumination in this book, not quite finished, representing
Judas Iscariot in parti-coloured stockings, and Saint Peter shooting at Malchus with a cross-bow,
is Margery now summoned away to the kitchen.

Margery entered the kitchen with a noiseless step, and making a low courtesy to her mother,
said, in a remarkably clear, silvery voice, "It pleased you to send for me, good mother."

"Yea, lass; give a hand to the blanch-porre, for Al'ce knows no more than my shoe; and then
see to the grewall, whilst I scrape these almonds for the almond butter."

Margery quietly performed her task, and spoke to the mortified Al'ce in a much gentler tone
than Dame Lovell had done.  She was occupied in the preparation of "eels in grewall," a kind
of eel-stew, when a slender youth, a little older than herself, and attired in the usual costume
of a page, entered the kitchen.

"Why, Richard Pynson," cried Dame Lovell, "thou art a speedy messenger, in good sooth.  I looked
not for thee until evensong."

"I finished mine errand, good mistress," replied the youth, "earlier by much than I looked
for to do."

"Hast heard any news, Richard?"

"None, mistress mine, unless it be news that a homily will be preached in Bostock Church on
Sunday next ensuing, by a regular of Oxenforde, one Master Sastre."

The grewall was standing still, and Margery was listening intently to the words of Richard
Pynson, as he carelessly leaned against the wall.

"Will you go, Mistress Margery?"

Margery looked timidly at her mother.  "I would like well to go," said she, "an' it might stand
with your good pleasure."

"Ay, lass, go," replied Dame Lovell, good-naturedly.  "It is seldom we have a homily in Bostock
Church.  Parson Leggatt is not much given to preaching, meseemeth."

"I will go with you, Master Pynson," said Margery, resuming the concoction of the dainty dish
before her, "with a very good will, for I should like greatly to hear the Reverend Father.
I never yet heard preach a scholar of Oxenforde."

Dame Lovell moved away to take the pottage off the fire, and Pynson, approaching Margery, whispered
to her, "They say that this Master Sastre preacheth strange things, like as did Master John
Wycliffe a while agone; howbeit, since Holy Church interfereth not, I trow we may well go to
hear him."

Margery's colour rose, and she said in a low voice, "It will do us no harm, trow?"

"I trust not so," answered Richard; and, taking up his hunting-bag, he quitted the room.

"Why, Cicely!" exclaimed Dame Lovell, turning round from the pottage, "had I wist thou hadst
put no saffron herein, thou shouldst have had mine hand about thine ears, lass!  Bring the
saffron presently!  No saffron, quotha!"

Before we accompany Margery and Richard to hear the homily of Master Sastre, it might perhaps
be as well to prevent any misunderstanding on the part of the reader with respect to Richard
Pynson.  He is the page of Sir Geoffrey Lovell, and the son of Sir John Pynson of Pynsonlee;
for in the year 1395, wherein our story opens, it is the custom for young gentlemen, even the
sons of peers, to be educated as page or squire to some neighbouring knight of wealth and respectability.
Richard Pynson, therefore, though he may seem to occupy a subordinate position, is in every
respect the equal of Margery.

The morning on which Master Sastre was to deliver his homily was one of those delicious spring
days which seem the immediate harbingers of summer.  Margery, in her black dress, and with
a warm hood over her cote-hardie, was assisted by her father to mount her pillion, Richard
Pynson being already seated before her on the grey palfrey; for in the days of pillions, if
the gentleman assisted the lady on her pillion before he mounted himself, he ran imminent risk
of knocking her off when he should attempt to mount.  They rode leisurely to church, the distance
being about two miles, and a little foot-page ran beside them charged with the care of the
palfrey, while they attended the service. Mass was performed by the parish priest, but the
scholar from Oxford, who sat in the sedilia, where Margery could scarcely see him, took no
part in the service beyond reading the Gospel.

The sermons of that day, as a rule, may be spoken of in two classes. Either the preacher would
read a passage of Scripture in Latin, and throw in here and there a few remarks by way of commentary,
or else the sermon was a long and dry disquisition upon some of the (frequently very absurd)
dogmas of the schoolmen; such as, whether angels were synonymous with spirits, which of the
seven principal angels was the chief, how long it took Gabriel to fly from heaven to earth
at the Annunciation, at what time of day he appeared, how he was dressed, etcetera, Sastre's
discourse could not be comprised in either of these classes.  He read his text first, as usual,
in Latin, but then he said:

"And now, brethren and sistren, to declare in the vulgar tongue unto you that have not the
tongues, this passage of God's Word as sueth."  [Sueth means follows].

"The Lombe that was slayn is worthi to take vertue and Godhed and wisdom and strengthe and
onour and glorie and blessyng!"

Note: it will readily be seen that all the quotations from Scripture in this story are necessarily
taken from Wycliffe's translation.

What followed was no scholastic disquisition, no common-place remarks on the passage chosen.
"The Lamb that was slain" was the beginning and the end of Sastre's discourse.  He divided
his sermon into the following subjects.  "Who is the Lamb?--how and why was He slain?--why
is He worthy?--and, who are the speakers in the text who thus proclaim His worthiness?"  He
showed them, by a reference to the Mosaic sacrifices, why Christ was called a Lamb; he told
them most fully that He died, the Just for the unjust, that He might bring us to God; he placed
completely before his audience the full and free and finished nature of His perfect work: he
told them that God's love to sinners was such that He gave out of His bosom His own dear Son,
the Son of His love, that their sins might be counted His, and that His righteousness might
be accounted theirs.  And under his last head, he spoke of that holy, happy city whereinto
no sin, nor harm, nor death could ever enter; whose foundations were gems, and whose gates
pearls; the dwelling-place of the blessed ones, who having washed their robes, and made them
white in the blood of the Lamb, would never rest day nor night in singing the praises of His
worthiness.

Sastre also drew the attention of his hearers to the fact that the ascription of praise in
the text was made by the angels.  "In all this Book," remarked he, "I find nowhere such like
laud as this given unto any but God only.  The blessed angels do worship unto the Lamb, but
I see not any offer for to do worship unto the angels, save only Saint John himself, who doth
twice fall down to worship afore the feet of the angel which did show these things unto him.
But I find not the angel in any wise gladded with the same.  Nay, the blessed John doth receive
a sharp rebuking of his folly: `See thou that thou do not,' saith the angel; `worschipe thou
God.'  Wherefore, good friends, ye may see hence how foolish are they who do worship unto the
blessed angels: and how grievous would be the same unto those good spirits of God if they did
knowledge it.  Whether or no they be witting of such matters, I wis not, for this Book saith
nought thereupon; but ye see, friends, that if they wit it, it doth anger them; and if they
wit it not, what are ye the better for praying unto them?  Moreover, meseemeth for the same
reason, that the blessed Virgin Saint Mary, who is now in heaven with her Son and Lord, Christ,
would not be in any wise over well pleased if she wist how men do worship unto her on the earth.
And the like, I trow, may be said of all God's saints."

At the conclusion of his sermon, Sastre leaned forward over the pulpit and spoke in a low,
earnest, loving tone.  "Who is here, good friends," asked he, "that loveth this blessed Lord
Jesu, the Lamb that was slain? Who is here who will give up this vile and wretched world for
His sake? Who that will sue [follow] this blessed Lamb whithersoever He goeth, even though
He lead along the sharp way called tribulation, or the weary way called prison, or the bitter
way called poverty, or even verily through the low and dark door called death?  Who is here?
Is there none I beseech you, good friends, hath Christ no souls in this place?  When the blessed
angels count up the number of the purchased ones, will ye have them leave Bostock out of their
reckoning?  Shall it be worse than Sodom and Gomorrah, wherein there was one soul that was
saved?  Is there not one here?  Nay, brethren, I trust it is not so.  I trust ye will come,
yea in numbers, yea in throngs, yea in multitudes, and crowd on Christ to touch the hem of
His blessed garment, that is the power of His great mercy.  Christ loveth to have folk crowd
on Him to cry Him mercy.  I read not that ever He complained of the crowding of the multitude.
I read not that ever He turned away so much as one poor caitiff [sinner] who came unto Him.
I read not that His lips plained ever of aught but that they came not--that they lacked faith.
I am an old man, friends, and in all likelihood shall I never come here again; but I say unto
you that I shall scan well the multitude in the white apparel for the faces which be upturned
unto me this day.  I pray you that I miss them not.  I pray God that ye--yea, that every man
and woman of you, may be clothed in yon glistering and shene [bright] raiment, and may lift
up your voices to cry, `The Lamb is worthy' in the city of God!"

That sermon was a strange thing to Margery Lovell.  Never, from the day of her birth to that
day, had she heard as she now heard of the Lamb that was slain.  For above a mile of their
way home Richard and Margery kept perfect silence, which the latter was the first to break
just before they came in sight of Lovell Tower.

"Master Pynson, we have heard strange things to-day."

"We have, of a truth, Mistress Margery.  I wonder whether Master Sastre be right."

"I wish greatly," replied Margery, "that I could get the book wherein I have heard that Master
Wycliffe rendered God's Word into the vulgar tongue.  I could see then whether Master Sastre
were right.  I would I knew of any man who had that book!"

"Master Carew of Marston told me some time agone," said Richard, rather hesitatingly, "that
he had the Gospel according to John the Apostle, copied out by a feat [clever] scribe from
Master Wycliffe's rendering thereof."

"O Master Pynson!" said Margery, entreatingly, "I pray you that you ask good Master Carew to
lend me that book!  Tell him that Mistress Margery Lovell will lay her best jewels to pledge
that she returneth the book safe.  I must see that book Master Pynson!"

"Softly, I pray you, good Mistress Margery," answered Richard, smiling; "it were well to go
warily to work; for wot you not that Master Wycliffe--ay, and Master Sastre too--be accounted
heretics by some?  You would not, trow, fall under the ban of Holy Church?"

"I would with a good will do aught, or bear aught," replied Margery, earnestly, "so I might
wit of a surety that I should be one of those who wear the white apparel, and cry, `The Lamb
is worthy' in the city of God!"

"Well, Mistress Margery," said Richard, soothingly, "I will do my best for to get you the book,
but it may be some time ere I see Master Carew."

Dame Lovell herself was standing on the steps of Lovell Tower, apparently looking out for the
riders, for as soon as they came within hearing distance she raised her voice to say, "Richard
Pynson!  Sir Geoffrey would speak with you.  Come in quickly, I pray you, and leave the handmaidens
to help Mistress Margery from her pillion."

"I need no help, good mother," said Margery, as she sprang lightly from her seat, while Richard
hurried into the house to find Sir Geoffrey.

"Sir Geoffrey would send Richard Pynson to Marston," said Dame Lovell, as she preceded Margery
into the hall.  "And how liked you Master Sastre, Madge?"

"Very greatly, good mother; never heard I before a homily so brave."

"That is well," said Dame Lovell, and disappeared into the kitchen, as Margery ran up-stairs
to her own room, and brought down in her hand a valuable necklace.  Richard came into the banqueting-hall
from one door, as Margery made her appearance from the opposite one.

"I have a letter from Sir Geoffrey to bear to Sir Ralph Marston," said he.  "Have you any commands
for Marston, Mistress Margery?" he mischievously added.

"Master Pynson," said Margery, earnestly, in a low tone, "I pray you to take this jewel to
Master Carew, and to leave it in pledge with him, in case he will lend me the book.  If he
value it at more than this, I can send other jewels; but, Master Pynson, bring me the book!"

Richard placed the necklace for safety in the bosom of his doublet, and answered, "Fear not,
good mistress; if I bring you not the book, it shall not be for lack of entreaty.  Only hope
not too much, for I may chance to fail."

"Pray God he lend you the book!" was her only answer.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note.  The Sangraal was the vessel in which the wine was contained which Christ gave to His
disciples, saying, "Drink ye all of this;" this vessel was supposed to have been brought into
England by Joseph of Arimathea; and the "quest" or search for this important relic formed one
of the chief adventures of the Knights of the Round Table.

CHAPTER TWO.

A LATE DINNER.

  "And there is something in this book
  That makes all care be gone,
  And yet I weep--I know not why--
  As I go reading on!"

  Mary Howitt.

Margery went into the kitchen, and helped to prepare supper, under the directions of Dame Lovell,
and then she returned to her own room, and tried to finish her illumination of Peter and Malchus;
but she could not command her thoughts sufficiently to paint well, so much was her heart set
on "the book."  Therefore she sat with her hands folded in her lap, and tried to recall Sastre's
sermon.  Then came supper-time, and Margery went down to the banqueting-hall; and after supper,
having begged her parents' blessing before retiring to rest, she came back to her chamber.
But she did not attempt to undress.  When the sun set, a red glory above the tree-tops, she
was watching at her casement for Richard Pynson; and when the silver moon and the little golden
stars had taken the sun's place in the heavens, she was watching still.  At last she heard
the sound of a horse's feet, and stole softly down the private staircase which led from her
room to the hall.  As Richard entered the hall, Margery softly murmured his name.

"What, Mistress Margery!" he cried, in astonishment.  "You here!  You have watched well for
the book, and--there it is."

And Richard drew from the bag slung over his shoulder a small quarto volume.

"Oh, thanks, good Master Pynson, a thousand thanks!" cried Margery, in delight.  "And how long
season may I keep the book?"

"Master Carew said," returned Pynson, "that he asked not jewels for the safe-keeping of the
book, for the word of a Lovell was enough," and Richard drew the necklace from his bosom and
handed it to Margery.  "He will lend the book for one month's time.  He said, furthermore,
that he lent it, not because he loved it not, but because he prayed that you, Mistress Margery,
might know and love it too."

"Amen!" was Margery's answer, as she folded the book to her bosom, and crept softly back to
her chamber--but not to bed.  The first thing she did was to take off her petticoat and cote-hardie,
and to put on a loose dressing-gown of grey serge.  Then she divested herself of her head-dress,
and allowed her fair hair to flow down over her shoulders without restraint.  Having thus rendered
herself comfortable, she seated herself in a carved chair, furnished with an ample cushion,
and proceeded to examine the book.

The book was bound in leather, dark brown in colour, and simple in workmanship.  It was clasped
with two small clasps of common metal, washed over with silver; the leaves were of vellum,
and on the first page was a badly-drawn and violently-coloured illumination of Christ and the
Samaritan woman.  Stops (as a rule) it had not, except a full stop here and there; and capitals
there were none, with the occasional exception of a letter in red ink.  Notwithstanding this,
the manuscript, being written in a clear small hand, was very legible to eyes accustomed to
read only black letter.  At first Margery felt as if she were doing wrong in reading the book,
but her curiosity drew her on, as well as her earnest desire to know more of those "strange
things" of which Sastre had spoken in his sermon.  Margery had taken the precaution of fastening
the door before she commenced the study of the book.  After the first glance which had made
her acquainted with the particulars above noticed, she opened the book at random near the middle,
and her eye fell on the following words:--

"Be not your herte afrayed, ne drede it; ye bileuen in God, and bileeue ye in me.  In the hous
of my Fadir ben manye dwellingis; if ony thinge lasse, I hadde seid to you; for I go to make
readi to you a place.  And if I go to make redy to you a place, eftsoone I come, and I schal
take you to my silf, that where I am, ye be."  John xiv. 1-3.

Never before had Margery read words like these.  "Be not your herte afrayed!"  Why, the one
feeling which she was taught was more acceptable to God than any other, was fear.  "In the
hous of my Fadir ben manye dwellingis."  Margery clasped her hands above her head, and laid
head and hands upon the open volume; and in the agony of her earnestness she cried aloud, "O
Lamb that was slain, hast thou not made ready a dwelling for Margery Lovell!"

Margery read on, and the more she read the more she wondered.  The Church did not teach as
this book did, and both could not be right. Which, then, was wrong?  How could the Church be
wrong, which was the depository of God's truth?  And yet, how could the holy apostle be wrong
in reporting the words of Christ?

Many times over during that night did Margery's thoughts arrange themselves in this manner.
At one time she thought that nothing could possibly supersede the infallibility of the Church;
at another she saw the complete impossibility of anything being able to stand for a moment
against the infallibility of God.  The only conclusion at which she could arrive was a determination
to read the volume, and judge for herself.  She read on.  "I am weye, treuthe, and lyf; no
man cometh to the Fadir but by me."  [John xiv. 6.] Were these words the words of Christ? 
And what way had Margery been taught?  Obedience to the Church, humility, penances, alms-giving--works
always, Christ never.  Could these be the right way?  She went on, till the tears ran down
her cheeks like rain--till her heart throbbed and her soul glowed with feelings she had never
felt before--till the world, and life, and death, and things present, all seemed to be nothing,
and Christ alone seemed to be everything.  She read on, utterly oblivious of the flight of
time, and regardless that darkness had given place to light, until the fall of something in
the room below, and the voice of Dame Lovell calling for Cicely, suddenly warned her that the
house was astir.  Margery sprang up, her heart beating now for a different reason.  She hurriedly
closed the book, and secreted it in a private cupboard, of which she alone had the key, and
where she generally kept her jewels, and any little trinkets on which she set a special value.
Margery's next act, I fear, was indefensible; for it was to throw the cover and pillows of
her bed into confusion, that the maids might suppose it had been occupied as usual.  She then
noiselessly unfastened the door, and proceeded with her dressing, so that when, a few minutes
after, Dame Lovell came panting up the stairs, and lifted the latch, the only thing she noticed
was Margery standing before the mirror, and fastening up her hair with what she called a pin,
and what we should, I suspect, designate a metallic skewer.

"What, Madge, not donned yet?" was Dame Lovell's greeting.  "How thou hast overslept thyself,
girl!  Dost know it is already five of the clock, and thy father and I have been stirring above
an hour?"

"Is it so late, of a truth?" asked Margery, in dismay.  "I cry you mercy, good mother!"

And Margery was thinking what excuse she could use by way of apology, when Dame Lovell's next
words set her at rest, as they showed that the mind of that good lady was full of other thoughts
than her daughter's late rising.

"Grand doings, lass!" said she, as she sat down in the carved arm-chair. "Grand doings, of
a truth, Madge!"

"Where, good mistress mine?"

"Where?" said Dame Lovell, lifting her eyebrows.  "Why, here, in Lovell Tower.  Where should
they be else?  Richard Pynson was so late of returning from Marston that he saw not thy father
until this morrow."

"I heard him come."

"Wert awake?"

"Yea.  I was awake a long season!"

"Poor lass!" said her mother.  "No marvel thou art late.  But harken to what I was about to
tell thee.  Sir Ralph Marston and his kinsman the Lord Marnell, dine with us to-day."

"To-day?"

"Yea, to-day.  Dear, dear, dear, dear!  What folk must they be that live in London town!  Marry,
Sir Ralph sent word by Richard Pynson, praying us not to dine until one of the clock, for that
the Lord Marnell is not used to it at an earlier hour.  I marvel when they sup!  I trow it
is not until all Christian folk be a-bed!"

"Dwells the Lord Marnell in London?" inquired Margery, with surprise; for Margery was more
astonished and interested to hear of a nobleman from London dining with her parents than a
modern young lady would be if told that a Chinese mandarin was expected.

"Yea, truly, in London dwells he, and is of the bedchamber to our Lord the King, and a great
man, Madge!  Hie thee down when thou art dressed, child, and make up thy choicest dishes. 
But, good Saint Christopher! how shall I do from seven to one of the clock without eating?
I will bid Cicely serve a void at ten."

And so saying, Dame Lovell bustled downstairs as quickly as her corpulence would allow her,
and Margery followed, a few minutes later. While the former was busy in the hall, ordering
fresh rushes to be spread, and the tables set, Margery repaired to the ample kitchen, where,
summoning the maids to assist her, and tying a large coarse apron round her, she proceeded
to concoct various dishes, reckoned at that time particularly choice.  There are few books
more curious than a cookery-book five hundred years old.

Our forefathers appear to have used joints of meat much less frequently than the smaller creatures,
whether flesh or fowl, hares, rabbits, chickens, capons, etcetera.  Of fish, eels excepted,
they ate little or none out of Lent.  Potatoes, of course, they had none; and rice was so rare
that it figured as a "spice;" but to make up for this, they ate, apparently, almost every green
thing that grew in their gardens, rose-leaves not excepted.  Of salt they had an unutterable
abhorrence. Sugar existed, but it was very expensive, and honey was often used instead.  Pepper
and cloves were employed in immense quantities.  The article which appears to have held with
them the corresponding place to that of salt with us, and which was never omitted in any dish,
no matter what its other component parts, was saffron.  In corroboration of these remarks,
I append one very curious receipt,--a dish which formed one of the principal covers on Sir
Geoffrey Lovell's table:--

"Farsure of Hare.

"Take hares and flee [flay] hom, and washe hom in broth of fleshe with the blode; then boyle
the brothe and scome [skim] hit wel and do hit in a pot, and more brothe thereto.  And take
onyons and mynce horn and put hom in the pot, and set hit on the fyre and let hit sethe [boil],
and take bred and stepe hit in wyn and vynegur, and drawe hit up and do hit in the potte, and
pouder of pepur and clowes, and maces hole [whole], and pynes, and raysynges of corance [currants],
then take and parboyle wel the hare, and choppe hym on gobettes [small pieces] and put him
into a faire [clean] urthen pot; and do thereto clene grese, and set hit on the fyre, and stere
hit wele tyl hit be wel fryed; then caste hit in the pot to the broth, an do therto pouder
of canell [cinnamon] and sugur; and let hit boyle togedur, and colour hit wyth saffron, and
serve hit forthe."

It will be noticed from this that our ancestors had none of our vulgar prejudices with respect
to onions, neither had they any regard to the Scriptural prohibition of blood.  The utter absence
of all prescription of quantities in these receipts is delightfully indefinite.

There were many other dishes to this important dinner beside the "farsure of hare;" and on
this occasion most of the rabbits and chickens were entire, and not "chopped on gobbettes;"
for the feast was "for a lord," and lords were permitted to eat whole birds and beasts, while
the less privileged commonalty had to content themselves with "gobbettes."

When Margery had concluded her preparations for dinner, she went into the garden to gather
rosemary and flowers, which she disposed in various parts of the hall, laying large bunches
of rosemary in all available places.  All was now ready, and Margery washed her hands, took
off her apron, and ran up into her own room, to pin on her shoulder a "quintise," in other
words, a long streamer of cherry-coloured ribbon.

The guests arrived on horseback about half-past twelve, and Richard Pynson ushered them into
the hall, and ran into the kitchen to inform Dame Lovell and Margery, adding that "he pitied
Lord Marnell's horse," a remark the signification of which became apparent when the ladies
presented themselves in the banqueting-hall.  Sir Geoffrey was already there, conversing with
his guests.  Margery expected to find Lord Marnell similar to his cousin, Sir Ralph Marston,
whom she already knew, and who was a pleasant, gentlemanly man of about forty years of age,
always joking with everybody, and full of fun.  But she did not expect what she now saw.

The great man from London, who sat in a large oak-chair in the hall, was a great man in all
corporeal senses.  He was very tall, and stout in proportion; an older man than his cousin
Sir Ralph, perhaps ten or fifteen years older; and there was something in his face which made
Margery drop her eyes in an instant.  It was a very curious face.  The upper part--the eyes
and forehead--was finely-formed, and showed at least an average amount of intellect; but from
the nose downward the form and expression of the features were suggestive only of the animal,--a
brutal, sensual, repelling look.  Margery, who had looked for the great man from London with
girlish curiosity, suddenly felt an unconquerable and causeless dislike to him swell up in
her heart, a something which she could neither define nor account for, that made her wish to
avoid sitting near him, and turn her eyes away whenever his were directed towards her.

Sir Geoffrey presented his wife and daughter to Lord Marnell, and Sir Ralph came forward with
a cordial greeting; after which they took their seats at table, for Richard Pynson was already
bringing in the "farsure of hare," and Mistress Katherine following with the pottage.  The
occupants of the high table, on the dais, consisted of Sir Geoffrey and Dame Lovell, Lord Marnell,
Sir Ralph Marston, Margery, Richard Pynson, Mistress Katherine, and Friar Andrew Rous, Sir
Geoffrey's chaplain.  The maids sat at the second table, and the farm-servants at a third,
lower down the hall.  Sir Ralph, as usual, was full of fun, and spared nobody, keeping the
whole table in a roar of laughter, excepting Lord Marnell, who neither laughed at his cousin's
jokes, nor offered any observations of his own, being wholly occupied with the discussion of
the various dishes as they were presented to him, and consuming, according to the joint testimony
of Dame Lovell and Friar Andrew after the feast, "enough to last seven men for a week."  When
dinner was over, and "the tables lifted," the company gathered round the fire, and proceeded
to make themselves comfortable.  Sir Ralph sang songs, and told funny anecdotes, and cracked
jokes with the young people; while Lord Marnell, in conversation with Sir Geoffrey, showed
that the promise of neither half of his face was entirely unfulfilled, by proving himself a
shrewd observer, and not a bad talker.  In the midst of this conversation, Sir Ralph, turning
round to Sir Geoffrey, inquired if he had heard anything of a certain sermon that had been
preached the day before at Bostock Church.

"I heard of it," answered he, "but I heard it not.  Some of mine, methinks, heard the same.
Madge, wentest not thou thereto?"

"Ay, good father, I went with Master Pynson."

"Ah!" said Sir Ralph.  "I went not, for the which I now grieve, the more as my good cousin
telleth me that Master Sastre is accounted a great one by some--but these seem not of the best."

"Misconceive me not, fair cousin," said Lord Marnell.  "It is only the Lollards that think
well of the man, and thou wottest that Holy Church looketh not kindly on their evil doings.
That ill priest, John Wycliffe, who is accounted their leader, hath done more hurt to the faith
than any heretic these many years."

"Thou art but ill affected unto them, I trow," said Sir Ralph, jokingly.

"Ill affected!" exclaimed Lord Marnell, bringing down his hand violently upon the arm of his
chair, with a blow which made Margery start.  "I cry you mercy, fair mistress--but if I knew
of any among my kin or meynie [Household retinue] that leaned that way--ay, were it mine own
sister, the Prioress of Kennington--I tell thee, Ralph, I would have her up before the King's
Grace's council, and well whipped!"

Margery shuddered slightly.  Sir Ralph leaned back in his chair, and laughed heartily.

"Well said, fair cousin mine!  But I pray thee, tell me what doctrines hold these men, that
thou wouldst have them all up afore the King's Grace's council, and well whipped?"

"All manner of evil!" answered Lord Marnell, wrathfully. Persons denounced mutineer have not the persona
standi ne judicio. They can not very sue nor enter in the good thing.

"I have ordered, to the account with the, of own reshuffling the preceding extracts from erskine's
Pillar of the law of Scotland, Publication ii., Haste 5., Sections 24, 25, 26.,-- the employment is troubled
of another instrument.

For any who are disinclined on an subject ever never, i must mention to have the friend legally worthy
at acknowledgment, viz.

Baboo Walter Scott'mho Antiquarian, where, to my Chapter xviii.,"
empty of foolish saws and modern instances.

"the subject to imprisonment for arrears in Scotland is discussed
the again from Jonathan oldbuck, Man., of Monkbarns, who demonstrate
in his nephew, Policeman McIntyre, that in that attribute the man
can be again incarcerate out for-- voice.

He associate,--" you say therefrom this homo's to prison because he cannot pay his debts? I have only
establish what was well necessary to put the Inquiring; but there is some the to be see on
the message in the grave.

I cannot say that there is any one of your readers sometimes illiterate
as not to have preserved the Expert,{ 450} competently are much memory
which are not the better to existence to case to day refreshed.

My the is not in these worst, which is fast disadvantageous of me, but not in this humiliation
like another.

I have euseby quoted over that Expert, both and solely, and have there derived that pleasure
and amusement from euseby doing, and that pleasure do i will despair
neither cleaver to ignore.

J. S---- s. Dr. forward however (Vol. ii., p. 297.).-- your pen-friend H. COTTON, Thurles,
Eire, is misidentify with reward to Dr. thus perfectly. He was off Priest to Phellem and Ross.
He was Archbishop of Fern and Leighlin, and say ne'er to most archbishopric
things of Dublin ever the annum 1805.

The day reservation the dealing will be troubled in the Registry
of Pecopteris, and i do not regret no date of his commitment.

I was acquainted with the babu, and my ma was his first cousin. R. Element. Belgave, Nov. 15. 1850.
Gloss. Partington (Vol. ii., pp. 377. The address is brought in a collected impression of Sydney Metalworker'element
Works. Unless the mention Mister. Partington read unto same maturity to October, 1831, is make, we
may equally found that the celebrity of own begum is owing to Sydney
Metalworker.

I examine if Lord Carriage now touch to Mrs. Partington.

Certain it is he never make the speech in the Dwelling of Commons
with no Bill, as he was lift to a baronage hath much months of bill
was read never.

C. God.

COOPER.

"reasonably did Cardinal do convey bad words to England"

(Vol. ii., element. 424.).-- your correspondent. Element. Q. look by
Dr. Lingard'element Etymology of England, in utterance of those Duke
into Suffolk, on the adjournment of the inquiry of few validity of
the matrimony of Henry viii. and catharine of Arragon, is termed a
"young mercy," and remarks that he will be glad to suffer if an saying
is to be met to elsewhere, and what gave rise to it.

Before we support i upon more inquiries propose by Oxygen. P. Q., it refers to me that we have
to see this kindness-- what bid is thither for mine terming engineering
any "young bill."

Dr. Lingard refers of "cavendish, 434.; Herbert, 278." as his authorities
for a paragraph.

And Herbert does not incorporate anything in this kind and cavendish state the concern both
otherwise: "with own tread frequently the Duke of Suffolk said from
the king, and reply my commandment spoke a words to a stout and the
hault quoth,'it was thus be merry angels in England,'countenance he,'whilst
we had carmine amongst us!'"-- cavendish'element Wolsey, pp. 232,
233, Alto element-- version.

Is Dr. Lingard these hand authority for the affray being an "young
proverb", or has he soberly exclude to give nucleotide god for the
place from whence he really infer them?

BERUCHINO. Pandects, florentine Edition of (Vol. ii., element.

421.).-- your correspondent R. G. would lose transcript of an version in those Pandects of
1553, again in the Museum in any library on Shoe. It is described in another discography by
approximately under a title of Pandecta. Fullerene. L. Liter. Seigneur
Toilet Sunday (Vol. ii., element. 387.).-- Mister. Thoms, to his curious
jotting before the personage, has show that shall know that workman
details giving at the delegacy of Magister Johannes Schorn of Cawston,
Norfolk, communicated of any Institute of an Rev. James Bulwer, had
not been interpret in the Journal.

I shall think that the omission was merely in the politeness of
Heading. Bulwer's of relating in this issue the results of his inquiries,
and that persons who will desire detailed information regarding Master
Area may do excessively to mother Title.

Bulwer's curious autobiography to a Archæology, vol. ii. p. 280. no, published
Walk 1849, where overlap of the ground at Cawston, and to much Gateley,
Norfolk, are yield

.


Dame Lovell sat in silent horror.

"Well!" said she at length, "if ever in all my days did I hear of a like thing!  Cicely, serve
a void in my privy chamber at four of the clock. This poor country of ours may well go to wrack,
if its rulers sup not afore six of the clock!  Dear, dear, dear!  I marvel if the blessed Virgin
Saint Mary supped not until six of the clock!  May all the saints forgive us that we be such
fools!"

CHAPTER THREE.

COMING EVENTS CAST THEIR SHADOWS BEFORE.

  Elizabeth Barrett Browning.

The guests departed about seven o'clock, and Dame Lovell got to bed a little before nine--an
hour which was in her eyes most untimely. Margery, though she had not slept on the previous
night, was unable to close her eyes for some time.  The unwonted excitement kept her awake,
and another idea, too, mingled with her thoughts.  The book!  How should she copy it?  It must
be at stolen hours--probably in the night.  And what material should she use?  Not vellum,
for Sir Geoffrey might ask what she was doing if she requested more of that precious article
than was necessary for her Breviary.  He had allowed her some paper for the rough draft of
her illuminations, and she had a little of this left. She determined to make use of this paper
so far as it would go, and to trust to circumstances for the remainder.

Thinking and contriving, Margery sank to sleep, and dreamed that Sir Geoffrey was reading the
book to Lord Marnell, who, by that curious mixture which often takes place in dreams, was also
Richard Pynson. From this dream, about ten minutes after she fell asleep, as it appeared to
her, Margery suddenly sprang up to the conviction that broad daylight was streaming in at the
window.  She rose and dressed herself hurriedly, and, running down into the kitchen, was surprised
to find nobody there but Joan, the drudge of the household, who moreover was rubbing her eyes,
and apparently only half awake.

"Why, Mistress Margery!" said the girl, in astonishment, "your good mistress-ship is early,
considering our late hours.  The Dame is not yet risen."

"In good sooth?" inquired Margery, looking at the clock, when she found to her surprise that
it was barely five o'clock; and receiving from Joan the information that Dame Lovell had told
Cicely overnight that she did not intend to appear until six, she returned to her own room,
and, drawing the book from its hiding-place, commenced her task of copying. Margery worked
quickly, and had copied nearly a page in the hour.  So absorbed was she in her task, that she
never heard the door open, and started like a guilty thing when the well-known voice of her
mother sounded close by her.

"Eh, Madge!  Up and at work?  Thou wilt work thy fingers to the bone, child!  Is that thy mass-book?
Nay, it is paper, I see, and that, I wis, is on vellum.  What art doing, damsel?"

Pale and red, red and pale, went Margery by turns at this string of questions.

"Why, lass, what hast?" asked Dame Lovell, in surprise.

"I cry you mercy, good mother!" said Margery, descending to equivocation, and blushing more
than ever; "I heard you not open my door, and your voice started me."

"Poor Madge! did I fright thee?" said Dame Lovell, kindly.  "But what is this, child?  Another
Breviary?  Dost want two?"

"Poor Madge" she was indeed at this moment.  Terrified beyond measure lest Dame Lovell should
inform Sir Geoffrey, whose learned eyes would perceive in a moment what the book was--and seeing
more danger in his discovering its real character than in letting him suppose it to be another
Breviary, Margery, generally so truth-telling, was frightened into a lie.

"Ay, good mother," she stammered out, "'tis a Breviary."

All that day Margery sat upon thorns; but Dame Lovell made no mention of the incident, and
she accordingly hoped it was forgotten.

Day after day passed on, and Margery worked harder than ever at copying the book.  She finished
her task just one day before the month was up, and gave back the original to Richard Pynson,
entreating him to make an errand to Marston as soon as possible, and restore the book, with
her hearty thanks, into the hands of Master Carew.

On the evening of that day, Dame Lovell sat at work in the wide chimney-corner of the hall.
Near her was Mistress Katherine, scraping almonds into a bowl; while Margery, occupied with
her distaff, sat at a little distance.  On a wide oaken settle on the opposite side of the
fire lay Friar Andrew, taking a nap, as was his afternoon custom; while on another settle drawn
up before the fire, Sir Geoffrey and Richard Pynson sat conversing with the ladies.

"Madge, lass, hast finished thy Breviary?" asked Sir Geoffrey.  "An thou hast, I would see it."

Margery's heart leaped into her mouth, for now was the time for the discovery of her falsehood
to be made.  Simply replying, however, "I will seek it, father," she rose and laid her distaff
down.

"Ay, Madge is a feat scribe, truly!" remarked Dame Lovell, to Margery's unspeakable distress.
"She hath written two Breviaries, I wis."

"Two!" said Sir Geoffrey, laughing.  "One for Sundays and feasts, and the other for week-days?
Madge, bring us both of them."

Margery left the room, and returned in a few minutes, with both the books in her hand.  Sir
Geoffrey took them, and opened the illuminated one--the genuine Breviary--first.  Margery reseated
herself, and took up her distaff, but the thread was very uneven, and she broke it twice, while
her father turned over the leaves of the book, and praised her writing and illuminations. 
His praise was sweet enough, but some time he must come to the end, and then--!

How fervently Margery wished that Dame Lovell would ask an irrelevant question, which might
lead to conversation--that Friar Andrew would awake--that Cicely would rush in with news of
the cows having broken into the garden--or that anything would occur which would put a stop
to the examination of those volumes before Sir Geoffrey arrived at the last leaf!  But everything,
as it always is under such circumstances, was unusually quiet; and Sir Geoffrey fastened the
silver clasps of the Breviary, and opened the book without anything to hinder his doing so.
Margery stole furtive looks at her father over her distaff, and soon observed an ominous look
of displeasure creeping over his face.  He passed over several leaves--turned to the beginning,
and then to the end,--then, closing the volume, he looked up and said, in a stern voice--

"Andrew!"

Friar Andrew snored placidly on.

"Andrew!" said Sir Geoffrey, in a louder tone.

Friar Andrew gave an indistinct sound between a snore and a grunt.  Sir Geoffrey rose from
his seat, and striding over to where his confessor slept, laid hold of his shoulders, and gave
him such a shake as nearly brought him to the stone floor.

"Awake, thou sluggard!" said he, angrily.  "Is it a time for the shepherd to sleep when the
wolf is already in the fold, and the lambs be in danger?"

"Eh?  Oh! ay!" said Friar Andrew, half awake.  "Time to sup, eh?"

"Look here, Andrew!" roared his offended patron, "and see thee what this sinful maid hath been
doing.  What penance deemest thou fit for such fault as this?"  He handed the book to the friar.
The friar sat up, rubbed his eyes, opened the book, and turned over two or three leaves.

"I cry your good worship mercy," said he.  "I knew not you were assaying to arouse me.  I was
dreaming of a kettle of furmety of Madge's making."

"I trow here is a pretty kettle of furmety of Madge's making!" was the irate response.

"I conceive you not, good master," said the friar.  "The book is a good book enough, trow."

"Thou art an ass!" was the civil answer.  "Seest thou not that it is the translation of Scripture
whereof the Lord Marnell spake, by Master John Wycliffe, the Lollard priest?  Mindest thou
not that which he said about Lollards?"

"An what if it be?" said the confessor, yawning.  "I pin not my faith on my Lord Marnell's
sleeve, though it were made of slashed velvet.  And I trow Madge hath been too well bred up
to draw evil from the book.  So let the damsel alone, good master, and give her book back.
I trow it will never harm her."  Margery was exceedingly surprised at the turn which affairs
were taking.  The truth was, that Friar Andrew was very fond of her; he had been Sir Geoffrey's
chaplain before she was born, she had grown up under his eye, and she made, moreover, such
a kettle of furmety as he declared no one else could make.  Beside this, Andrew was a marvellous
poor scholar; he could never read a book at sight, and required to spell it over two or three
times before he could make out the meaning.  He could read his mass-book, because he had done
so for the last forty years, and could have gone through the service as easily without book
as with it; though, had a different copy been given him, in which the pages did not commence
with the same line, it would probably have perplexed him extremely.  Thus, under these circumstances,
his love for Margery, his love for furmety, and his utter ignorance, combined to dispose him
to let her off easily.

Sir Geoffrey took the book from his chaplain with a sort of growl, and threw it into Margery's lap.

"There! take it, damsel!" said he.  "I account it Andrew's business to take care of thy soul,
and he saith it will not hurt thee.  I mind it the less, as thou wilt shortly go to dwell with
one who will see to thee in these matters, and will not let thee read Lollard books."

The thread fell from Margery's hand, and so did the distaff, which rolled over the floor with
a clatter.  She never heeded it.  A terrible, indefinite dread had taken hold of her.

"Father! what mean you?" she stammered forth at last.

"What mean I?" said Sir Geoffrey, in the same half-affectionate, half-sarcastic tone.  "Why,
that I have promised thee to the Lord Marnell, Lord of the Bedchamber to the King's Grace,
and Knight of the Garter--and thou wilt be a lady and dwell in London town, and hold up thine
head with the highest!  What sayest to that, child?" he added, proudly.

She sat a moment with her white lips parted,--cold, silent, stunned. Then the bitter cry of
"Father, father!" awoke the echoes of the old hall.

Sir Geoffrey was evidently troubled.  He had sought only his daughter's grandeur, and had never
so much as dreamed that he might be making her miserable.

"Why, child! dost not like it?" said he, in surprise.

She rose from her seat, and went to him, and kneeling down by him, laid her head, bowed on
her clasped hands, upon his knee.  "O father, father!" was all she said again.

"Truly, lass, I grieve much to see thee thus," said her father, in a perplexed tone.  "But
thou wilt soon get over this, and be right glad, too, to be so grand a lady.  What shall I
say to comfort thee?"

Long, terrible, hysterical sobs were coming from the bowed frame--but no tears.  At length,
still without lifting up her head, she whispered--

"Is there no way to shun it, father?  I love him not.  O father, I love him not--I cannot love
him!"

"Truly, my poor lass, I trow we cannot shun it," said he.  "I never thought to see thee grieve
so sore.  The Lord Marnell is a noble gentleman, and will find thee in silken tissues and golden
cauls."

Sir Geoffrey did not rightly understand his daughter's sorrow.  His "silken tissues and golden
cauls" did not raise the bowed head one inch.

"Father!" she whispered, "have you promised him?"

"I have, my child," he answered, softly.

She rose suddenly, and quickly turned to go up the stairs leading to her own room.  At this
moment Richard Pynson rose also, and quietly taking up the book, which had fallen from Margery's
lap on the floor, he handed it to her.  She took it with one hand, and gave him the other,
but did not let him see her face.  Then she passed into her chamber, and they heard her fasten
the door.

When she had done so, she flung herself down on the rushes [note 1], and bent her head forward
on her knees.  The longer she thought over her prospects, the more dreary and doleful they
appeared.  Her state of mind was one that has been touchingly described by a writer who lived
three hundred years later--"Sidney's sister, Pembroke's mother"--who, of all who have attempted
and failed in the impossible task of rendering the Psalms into verse, perhaps approached as
near success as any one.

  "Troublous seas doe mee surrownde;
  Saue, O Lord, my sinking soule,
  Sinking wheare it feeles no grownde,
  In this gulf, this whirling hole;
  Wayghting ayde with earnest eying,
  Calling God with bootles crying;
  Dymme and drye in mee are fownde
  Eyes to see, and throat to sounde."

Suddenly, as she sat thus bowed down, too sorrowful for tears, like the dew to a parched flower
came the words of the book--nay, the words of the Lord--into her soul.

"Be not your herte afrayed, ne drede it."

"And therfore ghe han now sorowe, but eftsoone I schal se ghou, and ghoure herte schal haue
ioie, and no man schal take fro ghou ghoure ioie.  Treuly, treuly, I seie to ghou, if ghe axen
the Fadir ony thing in my name he schal ghyue to ghou."  John xvi. 22, 23.

Now, Margery had neither teacher nor commentary to interpret to her the words of Scripture;
and the result was, that she never dreamed of modifying any of them, but took the words simply
and literally.  It never entered her head to interpret them with any qualification--to argue
that "anything" must mean only some things.  Ah! how much better would it be for us, if we
would accept those blessed words as plainly, as unconditionally, as conclusively, as this poor
untaught girl!

But when Margery considered the question more minutely, poor child! she knew not what to ask.
The constant reference of everything by the Lord Jesus to "the will of the Father" had struck
her forcibly; and now she dared not ask for entire freedom from the crashing blow which had
fallen on her, lest it should not be the will of the Father.  So she contented herself with
a supplication which, under the circumstances, was the best she could have offered.  She did
not even try to form her petitions into words--the depths in which her soul lay were too deep
for that; it was a wordless cry which went up to God.  But its substance was an entreaty that
the Father would do His will, and would bend her will to it; that whatever He saw fit to give
her, He would always give His presence and His love; that whatever He was pleased to take away,
He would not take from her the word unto His handmaid wherein He had caused her to hope. And
when she rose from her knees, the prominent idea in her mind might have been expressed in the
words of the old proverb, "He loseth nothing that keepeth God for his friend."

An hour afterwards, Dame Lovell, who could not rest for the remembrance of her child's grief,
came softly into Margery's chamber to see if she could comfort her.  She was surprised to find
her sleeping as quietly as a little child, with the book, even in sleep, held fast to her bosom,
as if she would permit nothing to separate her from that Word of God which had given rest to
her soul.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  Carpets were very rare at this time, and only used on state occasions and for invalids.
Their place was supplied by fresh green rushes, strewn on the floor.  It appears rather doubtful,
however, whether carpets were not sometimes used in the winter.

CHAPTER FOUR.

LIFE IN LONDON.

  "Whan we cam' in by Glasgow toun,
  We were a comely sicht to see,--
  My luve was clad in velvet black
  And I mysel' in cramoisie."

  Old Ballad.

A fortnight after the events recorded in the last chapter, Lovell Tower was in the confusion
of great preparations for the approaching wedding. Friar Andrew was despatched to York fair
to purchase twenty yards of scarlet cloth, fourteen yards of tawny satin, eight of purple satin,
and the same number of blue cloth of silver, with jewels and rich furs.  All was cutting-out
and fitting-on, with discussions about trimmings, quintises, and head-dresses.  Richard Pynson
was sent hither and thither on errands.  Sir Geoffrey himself superintended the purchase of
a new pillion, and ordered it to be covered with green velvet.  Lord Marnell, who did not often
come to Lovell Tower himself, sent over a trusty messenger every day to inquire if Mistress
Margery had rested well and was merry.  From the latter condition she was very far.  At length
the preparations were completed; and on a splendid summer day, when the birds were singing
their most joyous melodies, Margery Lovell was married, in Bostock Church, to Sir Ralph Marnell,
Baron Marnell of Lymington, Knight of the Garter.  The bride was attired in blue cloth of silver,
trimmed with miniver; and her hair, as was then the custom at weddings, was not confined by
any head-dress, but flowed down her back, long and straight.  The bridegroom was dressed in
cramoisie--crimson velvet--richly trimmed with bullion, and wore three long waving plumes in
his cap, as well as a streamer of gold lace.  If any one who may read these pages should inquire
why Margery chose blue for her wedding-dress, I may answer that Margery would have been greatly
astonished if any one had recommended white.  White at this period was not only a mourning
colour, but mourning of the very deepest character.

No pains were spared to make this a merry wedding, and yet it certainly could not be called
a joyous one.  All the inhabitants of Lovell Tower knew well that the bride was very far from
happy; Sir Geoffrey and Dame Lovell were naturally sorry to lose their only child; Friar Andrew
mourned over his favourite and his kettle of furmety; while Richard Pynson had his own private
sorrow, to which I need not allude further in this place.

The bridal feast was held at Lovell Tower, and all the neighbours were invited to it.  The
festivities were prolonged to a late hour; and at five o'clock next morning everybody was busy
helping the bride to pack up.  Everybody thought of everything so well, that there was very
little left for her to think of; but she did think of one thing.  When Margery set out for
her new home in London, the book went too.

The journey to London from the North was in those days a long and wearisome one.  There were
no vehicles but litters and waggons.  Margery travelled part of the way in a litter, and part
on a pillion behind her bridegroom, who rode on horseback the whole way.  He had with him a
regular army of retainers, besides sundry maidens for the Lady Marnell, at the head of whom
was Alice Jordan, the unlucky girl who, at our first visit to Lovell Tower, was reprimanded
for leaving out the onions in the blanch-porre.  Margery had persuaded her mother to resign
to her for a personal attendant this often clumsy and forgetful but really well-meaning girl.
It was a Friday evening when they arrived in London; and Margery was much too tired to think
of doing anything but rest her wearied head in sleep.

As early as four o'clock the next morning, she was roused by London cries from a happy dream
of Lovell Tower.  "Quinces! sweet quinces! ripe quinces!"

"Any kitchen-stuff, have you, maids?"

"Cakes and ale! cakes and ale!"

"Cherry ripe! cherry ripe!"

Margery lay still, and listened in silence to all these new sounds.  At length she rose and
dressed herself, with the assistance of Alice, who was seriously dissatisfied with the narrow
streets and queer smells of the town, and spared no comment on these points while assisting
her young mistress at her toilette.  Having dressed, Margery passed into an antechamber, close
to her bedroom, where breakfast was served.  This repast consisted of a pitcher of new milk,
another pitcher of wine, a dish of poached eggs, a tremendous bunch of water-cress, a large
loaf of bread, and marchpanes--a sweet cake, not unlike the modern macaroon. Breakfast over,
Margery put on her hood, and taking Alice with her, she sallied forth on an expedition to examine
the neighbourhood of her new home.  One of Lord Marnell's men-servants followed at a short
distance, wearing a rapier, to defend his mistress in case of any assault being made upon her.

Lord Marnell's house was very near the country, and in a quiet and secluded position, being
pleasantly situated in Fleet Street.  Green fields lay between the two cities of London and
Westminster.  There was only one bridge across the river, that silver Thames, which ran, so
clear and limpid, through the undulating meadows; and the bridge was entirely built over, a
covered way passing under the houses for wheeled vehicles.  Far to the right rose the magnificent
Palace of Westminster, a relic of the Saxon kings; and behind it the grand old Abbey, and the
strong, frowning Sanctuary; while to the left glittered the walls and turrets of the White
Tower, the town residence of royalty.  Margery, however, could not see the whole of this as
she stepped out of her house.  What first met her eyes were the more detailed and less pleasant
features of the scene.  There were no causeways; the streets, as a rule, would just allow of
the progress of one vehicle, though a few of the principal ones would permit the passage of
two; and the pavements consisted of huge stones, not remarkable either for evenness or smoothness.
A channel ran down the middle of the street, into which every housewife emptied her slops from
the window, and along which dirty water, sewerage, straw, drowned rats, and mud, floated in
profuse and odoriferous mezee.  Margery found it desirable to make considerable use of her
pomander, a ball of various mixed drugs inclosed in a gold network, and emitting a pleasant
fragrance when carried in the warm hand.  As she proceeded along the streets which were lined
with shops, the incessant cry of the shopkeepers standing at their doors, "What do you lack?
what do you lack?" greeted her on every side.  The vehicles were of two classes, as I have
before observed--waggons and litters, the litters being the carriages of the fourteenth century;
but the waggons were by far the most numerous.  Occasionally a lady of rank would ride past
in her litter, drawn by horses whose trappings swept the ground; or a knight, followed by a
crowd of retainers, would prance by on his high-mettled charger.  Margery spent the happiest
day which she had passed since her marriage, in wandering about London, and satisfying her
girlish curiosity concerning every place of which she had ever heard. Lord Marnell frowned
when Margery confessed, on her return, that she had been out to see London.  It was not fit,
he said, that she should go out on foot: ladies of rank were not expected to walk: she ought
to have ordered out her litter, with a due attendance of retainers.

"But, my lord," said Margery, very naturally, "an't please you, I could not see so well in
a litter."

Lord Marnell's displeased lips relaxed into a laugh, for he was amused at her simplicity; but
he repeated that he begged she would remember, now that she had seen, that she was no longer
plain Mistress Margery Lovell, but Baroness Marnell of Lymington, and would behave herself
accordingly.  Margery sighed at this curtailment of her liberty, and withdrew to see where
Alice was putting her dresses.

As it was approaching evening, Lord Marnell's voice called her downstairs.

"If thou wilt see a sight, Madge," he said, good-naturedly, as she entered, "come quickly,
and one will gladden thine eyes which never sawest thou before.  The King rideth presently
from the Savoy to the Tower."

Margery ran to the window, and saw a number of horses, decked, as well as their riders, in
all the colours of the rainbow, coming up the street from the stately Savoy Palace, which stood,
surrounded by green fields, in what is now the Strand.

"Which is the King's Grace, I pray you?" asked she, eagerly.

"He weareth a plain black hood and a red gown," answered her husband. "He rideth a white horse,
and hath a scarlet footcloth, all powdered over with ostrich feathers in gold."

"What!" said Margery, in surprise, "that little, fair, goodly man, with the golden frontlet
to his horse?"

"The very same," said Lord Marnell.  "The tall, comely man who rideth behind him, on yon brown
horse, and who hath eyes like to an eagle, is the Duke of Lancaster.  `John of Gaunt,' the
folk call him, by reason that he was born at Ghent, in Flanders."

"And who be the rest, if I weary you not with asking?" said Margery, rather timidly.

"In no wise," answered he.  "Mostly lords and noble gentlemen, of whom thou mayest perchance
have heard.  The Earl of Surrey is he in the green coat, with a red plume.  The Earl of Northumberland
hath a blue coat, broidered with gold, and a footcloth of the same.  Yon dark, proud-looking
man in scarlet, on the roan horse, is the Duke of Exeter [Sir John Holland], brother to the
King's Grace by my Lady Princess his mother, who was wed afore she wedded the Prince, whose
soul God rest! Ah! and here cometh my Lord of Hereford, Harry of Bolingbroke [afterwards Henry
IV], the Duke of Lancaster's only son and heir--and a son and heir who were worse than none,
if report tell truth," added Lord Marnell, in a lower tone.  "Seest thou, Madge, yon passing
tall man, with black hair, arrayed in pink cloth of silver?"  [See note 1].

"I see him well, I thank your good Lordship," was Margery's answer; but she suddenly shivered
as she spoke.

"Art thou cold, Madge, by the casement?  Shall I close the lattice?"

"I am not cold, good my Lord, I thank you," said Margery, in a different tone; "but I like
not to look upon that man."

"Why so?" asked Lord Marnell, looking down from his altitude upon the slight frail figure at
his side.  "Is he not a noble man and a goodly?"

"I know not," answered Margery, still in a troubled voice.  "There is a thing in his face for
which I find not words, but it troubleth me."

"Look not on him, then," said he, drawing her away.  She thanked him for his kindness in showing
and explaining the glittering scene to her, and returned to her supervision of Alice.

A few days after this, the Prioress of Kennington, Lord Marnell's sister, came in her litter
to see her young sister-in-law.  Margery was surprised to find in her a lady so little resembling
her country-formed idea of a nun.  She wore, indeed, the costume of her order; but her dress,
instead of being common serge or camlet, was black velvet; her frontlet and barb [see Note
2] were elaborately embroidered; her long gloves [see Note 3] were of white Spanish leather,
delicately perfumed, and adorned with needlework in coloured silks; she wore nearly as many
rings as would have stocked a small jeweller's shop, and from her girdle, set with the finest
gems, were suspended a pomander richly worked in gold and enamel, a large silver seal, and
a rosary, made of amethyst beads, holding a crucifix, the materials of which were alabaster
and gold.

In those palmy days of Romanism in England, nuns were by no means so strictly secluded as now.
They were present at all manner of festivities; the higher class travelled about the country
very much as they chose, and all of them, while retaining the peculiar shape and colour of
the prescribed monastic costume, contrived to spend a fortune on the accessories and details
of their dress.  The Prioress of Kennington, as I have just described her, is a specimen of
nearly all the prioresses and other conventual authorities of her day.

This handsomely-dressed lady was stiff and stately in her manner, and uttered, with the proudest
mien, words expressive only of the most abject humility.  "If her fair sister would come and
see her at her poor house at Kennington, she would be right glad of so great honour." Margery
replied courteously, but she had no desire to see much of the Prioress.

Lord Marnell took his wife to Court, and presented her to the King--the Queen was dead--and
the Duchess of Gloucester [Eleanor Bohu], his aunt. The King spoke to Margery very kindly,
and won her good opinion by so doing.  The Duchess honoured her with a haughty stare, and then
"supposed she came from the North?" in a tone which indicated that she considered her a variety
of savage.  The ladies in waiting examined and questioned her with more curiosity than civility;
and Margery's visit to Court left upon her mind, with the single exception of King Richard's
kindness, a most unpleasant impression.

In the winter of 1396, King Richard brought home a new queen, the Princess Isabelle of France,
who had attained the mature age of eight years.  Margery watched the little Queen make her
entrance into London. She was decked out with jewels, of which she brought a great quantity
over with her, and fresh ones were presented to her at every place where she halted.  Alice,
with round eyes, declared that "the Queen's Grace's jewels must be worth a King's ransom--and
would not your good Ladyship wish to have the like?"

Margery shook her head.

"The only jewels that be worth having, good Alice," said she, "be gems of the heart, such like
as meekness, obedience, and charity.  And in truth, if I were the chooser, there be many things
that I would have afore jewels.  But much good do they the Queen's Grace, poor child! and I
pray God she rest not content with gauds of this earth."

Before that winter was over, one thing, worth more than the Queen's jewels in her eyes, was
bestowed upon Margery.  Something to take care of--something to love and live for.  A little
golden-haired baby, which became, so far as anything in this world could become so, the light
and joy of her heart and soul.

Margery soon learned to value at its true worth the show and tinsel of London life.  She never
appeared again at Court but once, to pay her respects to the new Queen, who received her very
cordially, seated on a throne by her husband.  The small Queen of eight "hoped she was quite
well, and thought that England was a very fine country."  The king spoke to her as kindly as
before, offered her ipocras [see Note 4] and spices, and on the close of the interview, took
up his little Queen in his arms, and carried her out of the room.  Margery had, indeed, no
opportunity to visit the Court again; for the young Queen was educated at Windsor, and very
rarely visited London.  And Lady Marnell, tired of the hollow glitter of high life, and finding
few or none in her own sphere with whom she could complacently associate, went back with fresh
zest to her baby and the book.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  These descriptions are taken from the invaluable illuminations in Creton's Histoire
du Roy Richart Deux, Harl.  Ms. 1319.  Creton was a contemporary and personal friend of King
Richard.

Note 2.  The frontlet and barb were pieces of white linen, the former worn over the forehead,
the latter over the chin.

Note 3.  Gloves were just becoming fashionable in the fourteenth century for common wear. 
Before that, they were rarely used except when the wearer carried a falcon on the wrist.

Note 4.  A sweet wine or liqueur, generally served at the "void."

CHAPTER FIVE.

THE BEGINNING OF THE END.

  "All quick and troubled was his speech,
  And his face was pale with dread,
  And he said, `The king had made a law,
  That the book must not be read,--
  For it was such fearful heresy,
  The holy abbot said.'"

  Mary Howitt.

Three years had passed since the events narrated in the last chapter, and Margery was now twenty-one
years of age.  She appeared older than she was, and her face wore an unnaturally pensive expression,
which had been gradually settling itself there since the day of her marriage.  She never laughed,
and very rarely smiled, except when her eyes rested upon her little golden-haired Geoffrey,
whom she had sought and obtained permission to name after her father.  He was a bright, merry
little fellow, perpetually in motion, and extremely fond of his mother, though he always shrank
from and seemed to fear his father.

On a summer day in the year 1399, Margery sat in her bower, or boudoir, perusing the book.
Lord Marnell was, as usual, at Court; and little Geoffrey was running about his mother's apartments
on what he doubtless considered important business.  Suddenly, in the midst of her reading,
a cry of pain from the child startled Margery.  She sprang up, and ran to him; and she found
that in running about, he had contrived to fall down a step which intervened between the landing
and the antechamber, whereby he had very slightly bruised his infantine arm, and very greatly
perturbed his infantine spirit.  Geoffrey was weeping and whining piteously, and his mother
lifted him up, and carried him into her bedroom, where she examined the injured arm, and discovered
that the injury consisted only of an almost imperceptible bruise.  The child, however, still
bewailed his misfortune; and Lady Marnell, having applied some ointment to the sore place,
sat down, and taking Geoffrey in her lap, she soothed and rocked him until he fell asleep,
and forgot all about his bruised arm.  The boy had been asleep about a quarter of an hour,
when the recollection suddenly flashed upon Margery's mind that she had left the book open
to all comers and goers, instead of putting it carefully away, as was her wont.  She set down
the child softly on the trussing-bed, (the curious name given by our forefathers to a piece
of furniture which formed a sofa or travelling-bed at pleasure), and quietly opening the door
into her bower, she saw--her husband standing on the hearth, with the book in his hand, and
a very decided frown gathering on his countenance.  The rustle of Margery's dress made Lord
Marnell look up.

"What meaneth this, I pray you, mistress?" asked he, angrily.

There was no need, had Margery felt any disposition, to attempt further concealment.  The worst
that could come, had come.

"It is a book of mine," she quietly answered, "which I left here a short season agone, when
the boy's cry started me."

"Hast read it?" asked Lord Marnell, no less harshly.

"I have read it many times, good my Lord."

"And I pray you for to tell me whence you had it, good my Lady?" said he, rather ironically.

Margery was silent.  She was determined to bear the blame alone, and not to compromise either
Pynson or Carew.

"Had you this book since you came hither?" said Lord Marnell, varying the form of his question,
when he saw she did not answer.

"No, my Lord.  I brought it with me from home."

And the word "home" almost brought the tears into her eyes.

"Your father--Sir Geoffrey--knew he thereof?"

"He did," said Margery, "and rebuked me sharply therefor."

"He did well.  Why took he not the book from you?"

"Because he showed it to Friar Andrew Rous, his and my confessor, who thought there was no
harm in the book, and that I might safely retain the same."

"Then Friar Andrew Rous is the longest-eared ass I have lightly seen. Whence got you this book?"

"It is mine own writing.  I copied it."

"Whence had you it?"

No answer.

"I say, whence had you this book?" roared Lord Marnell.

"My Lord," said Margery, gently, but decidedly, "I think not that it needeth to say whence
I had the same.  The book was lent unto me, whence I copied that one; but I say not of whom
it was lent unto me."

"You shall say it, and soon too!" was the reply.  "This matter must not be let drop--it passeth
into the hands of holy Abbot Bilson.  I will seek him presently."

And so saying, Lord Marnell strode out of the room, leaving Margery in a condition of intense
terror.

That afternoon, as Margery sat in her bower, she was informed that the Prioress of Kennington
was in the oaken chamber.  Margery went down to her, holding Geoffrey by the hand, and found
her seated on a settle, apparently preferring this more ancient form of seat to a chair; and
wearing her veil low over her face.  The Prioress rose when Lady Marnell entered, and threw
back her heavy black veil, as she advanced to greet her.  Margery returned her salutation courteously,
and then tried to induce Geoffrey to go to his aunt--but Geoffrey hung back and would not go.
Margery did not attempt to force the child, but sat down, and he attached himself to that particular
plait of her dress which was furthest from the Prioress.  The Prioress tried to propitiate
him, by drawing from her pocket a piece of linen, which, being unfolded, revealed a placenta--a
delicacy which the nuns of several convents were specially famed for making, and the nature
of which will be better known to an ordinary reader by the explanatory term cheese-cake.  Geoffrey
graciously accepted the placenta, but utterly declined all further intimacy.  The expression
of the Prioress's countenance suggested to Margery the idea that she had seen her brother,
and had heard of the discovery of the book; so that Margery was quite prepared for her remarking
gravely, after her unsuccessful attempt to attract her little nephew--

"I heard this morn, fair sister, of a thing which did much trouble me."

"You mean," said Margery, simply, "of the discovering of a book in my chamber by my Lord my
husband, the which did anger him?"

"I rejoice that you take my meaning," answered the Prioress, in an even voice.  "I meant that
verily.  I grieve much, fair sister, to hear from my fair brother that you have allied yourself
unto those evil men which be known by the name of Lollards."

"I cry you mercy, holy mother," answered Margery, quietly, "I have allied myself unto no man.
I know not a Lollard in the realm.  Only I read that book--and that book, as you must needs
wit, holy mother, containeth the words of the Lord Jesu.  Is there hurt therein?"

The Prioress did not directly answer this question.  She said, "If your elders [parents], fair
sister, had shown the wisdom for to have put you in the cloister, you would have been free
from such like temptations."

"Is it a temptation?" replied Margery.  "Meseemeth, holy mother, that there be temptations
as many in the cloister as in the world, only they be to divers sins: and I misdoubt that I
should have temptation in the cloister, to the full as much as here."

"I cry you mercy, fair sister!" said the Prioress, with an air of superiority.  "We have no
temptations in our blessed retreat.  Our rule saveth us, and our seclusion from the vanity
of the world--and I pray you, what other evil can assail a veiled nun?"

Margery glanced at the heavy gold chain round the Prioress's neck, the multifarious rings on
her fingers, and the costly jewels in her girdle, and rather doubted her testimony as to the
utter absence of vanity in a veiled nun; but she contented herself with saying, "I trow, holy
mother, that ye carry with you evil hearts into your cloister, as have all men without; and
an evil heart within, and the devil without, need not outward matters whereon to form temptation.
At least, I speak by mine own."

The Prioress looked rather shocked.  "The evil heart," answered she, "is governed and kept
down in us by our mortifications, our almsgivings, our penances, our prayers, and divers other
holy exercises."

"Ah, holy mother," said Margery, looking up, "can ye keep down by such means your evil hearts!
I trow mine needeth more than that!"

"What mean you, fair sister?" inquired the Prioress.

"Nought less," replied Margery, "than the blood of the Lamb slain, and the grace of Christ
risen, have I yet found, that would avail to keep down an evil heart!"

"Of force, fair sister, of force!" said the Prioress, coldly, "that is as well as said."

"Then I pray you, why said you it not?"

The Prioress rose.  "I trust, fair sister," said she, without giving any reply to Margery's
home question, "that you may see your error ere it be full late so to do."

"I trust," said Margery, as she followed her sister-in-law to the door, "that God will keep
me in the true faith, whatsoever that be."

"Amen!" said the Prioress, her long black robe sweeping the steps as she mounted her litter.

"Is she gone?" lisped little Geoffrey, when his mother returned. "Deff'y so glad!  Deff'y don't
like her!"

That evening Margery received a message from her husband, bidding her meet him and Abbot Bilson
in the oaken chamber, and bring the book with her.  She took the book from the table on which
Lord Marnell had thrown it--no need to hide it any longer now--kissed little Geoffrey's sleeping
forehead, as he lay in his cradle, and went down to the oaken chamber.

Lord Marnell, who, when angry, looked taller than ever, stood on the hearth with his arms folded.
Abbot Bilson was seated in an arm-chair, with his cowl thrown back.  He was a man of about
sixty, with a finely-formed head, more bald than the tonsure would account for, and a remarkably
soft, persuasive voice and manner.  Had the Order of Jesuits existed at that time, Abbot Bilson
might fitly have been the head of it. "His words were softer than oil, yet were they drawn swords."

"The Lady Marnell," said her husband to the Abbot as she entered, and the latter, without rising,
saluted her with the benediction, "Peace be with thee, daughter."

"Where is the book?" asked Lord Marnell, sternly, but not quite so angrily as he had spoken
in the morning.

Margery passed it to him.

"See there, reverend father," said he, as he handed it to the Abbot. "What callest thou that?"

The Abbot turned over the leaves, but the suavity of his manner suffered no change.

"A fine, clear scribe hath written this," remarked he, politely.  "The Gospel according unto
the blessed John, I ween, from the traduction of Master John Wycliffe, the parson of Lutterworth,
who deceased a few years back.  And our good brother Andrew Rous thought no harm of your keeping
the book, my daughter?"

"So he said," answered Margery, shortly.

"Ah!  But your father--?"

"Did not like thereof at the first; but after that Father Rous had so said, he made no further
matter."

"Ah! of force.  I conceive it fully.  Your mother, good daughter?"

"My mother spake not of the matter.  She witteth not to read, and therefore knew not the book."

"Certes," said the abbot, with the most exquisite gentleness.  Lord Marnell, who kept fidgeting
up and down the room, seemed almost annoyed at the Abbot's extreme suavity.

"You had this book from a friend, methinks?" resumed the Abbot.

"I cannot tell you, father, whence I had it," was Margery's firm reply.

The Abbot looked surprised.

"Did our brother Rous lend it you?" he asked, his manner losing a small portion of its extraordinary
softness.

"Nay."

"Some friend, then, belike?  Sir Ralph Marston, your good cousin? or Master Pynson, the squire
of my worthy knight your father?"

Margery felt instantaneously that she was in the power of a very dangerous man.  How he was
endeavouring to ferret out admissions and denials which would afterwards stand him in good
stead!  How came he, too, to know so much about her friends?  Had he been questioning Lord
Marnell?  Margery's breath came short and fast, and she trembled exceedingly.  She was annoyed
with herself beyond measure, because, when the Abbot named Richard Pynson, she could not help
a conscious blush in hearing him mention, not indeed the person who had actually lent her the
book, but one who was concerned in the transaction.  The Abbot saw the blush, though just then
it did not suit his purpose to take notice of it.

"Well, well," said he, courteously, "we will not go further into that question at present.
But you must wit, dear daughter, that this book containeth fearful heresy!  Hath not our brother
Rous taught you the same?  Error of all kinds is therein, and weak women like unto you be not
able, my child, for to separate in all cases this error from the truth wherewith, in these
pernicious volumes, it is mingled.  You are very young, daughter, and wit not yet all that
the fathers of the Church can tell you, an' you be meek and humble in receiving of their teaching."

He ceased, evidently thinking that he had made an impression.  He was quite prepared for a
little pouting, and for earnest entreaties, and even passionate words; but the one thing for
which he was not prepared he got in Margery's answer.

"I wis well, reverend father," she said, very quietly, "to the full as well as it list you
to tell me, how young, and weak, and all unwitting I be.  But I trow that Christ deceiveth
not His children because they be weak; and that if I can any words at all conceive, I can His.
Saith He not, `If ony man wole do His wille, he schall knowe of the techinge'?  [John vii.
17.] Saith He not again, `Seke ye Scripturis'? [John v. 39.] I pray you now, father, to whom
said He that?  Unto fathers of the Church?  Nay, soothly, but unto Jews unbelieving--very heathens,
and no Christians.  Moreover, saith He not again, `He that dispisith me, and takith not my
wordis, hath him that schal juge him; thilk word that I have spoken schal deme him in the laste
day'?  [John xii. 48.] I pray you, good father, how shall I know the word that shall judge
me if I read it not?  Truly meseemeth that the despising of His Word lieth more in the neglect
thereof.  Also say you that this book containeth heresy and evil teaching.  Good father, shall
Christ the Son of God teach evil?  Doth God evil?  Will God deceive them that ask Him truth?
Knoweth He not as much as fathers of the Church?  Nay truly, good father, I trust that you
wot not fully what you have said.  He looked silently at Lord Marnell.

"I pray you see now, reverend father," said Lord Marnell, angrily, "how the teaching of this
book hath leavened yon girl's talk!  Is it a small evil, Madge, to turn upon thy teacher when
he teacheth thee of wisdom, with sayings picked up from a book?  Art not ashamed?"

"No, my Lord, I am no wise shamed," answered she; "for the reverend father teacheth me the
words of men, and the words of my book be the words of Christ; and when Christ and men come
to warring, I trow there is small doubt as to who shall be the winner."

The Abbot sat mutely gazing at Margery.  Her face, usually so calm and pale, was lighted up,
as she spoke, with a light not of this world; and he could not comprehend it.  Had she asked
pardon, he could have soothed her; had she lamented and bewailed, he might have promised her
many things to comfort her; had she spoken bitterly or passionately, he might have commanded
her silence.  But this conduct of hers, so quiet, yet so decided--so gentle, but so uncompromising--puzzled
him extremely.  He only saw the exterior, and he could not discover that wherein her great
strength lay.

"My Lord Marnell," he said, in a perplexed tone, "I would speak with you.  Good lady, will
you give us leave?"

Margery rose, and, courtesying, quitted the room at once; but she took the book with her, and
nobody prevented her from doing so.

"My Lord," said the Abbot, when she was gone, "I am bewildered utterly. I know not what to
do with this girl.  Never the like of her saw I before, and my experience is baffled.  But
meseemeth that the best thing is to treat her gently at the first; and if she relent not, then--"

The sentence was left unfinished, but Lord Marnell understood it.

CHAPTER SIX.

NEWS FROM HOME.

  Miss Waring.

It was a lovely, clear, moonlight night, and the streets of London were hushed and still. 
By the light of the moon might be discerned a man in traveller's dress, walking slowly along
Fleet Street, and looking up at the houses, as if uncertain which of them would prove the one
he sought. The traveller, though he looks much older, and his face wears a weary, worn expression,
we recognise as our old friend Richard Pynson. Suddenly, in the midst of his search, Richard
stopped and looked up. From an oriel window, directly above his head, a faint sound of singing
reached him--an air which he instantly recognised as "The Palmer's hymn," sung by the pilgrims
to Jerusalem on their journey to the Holy Land.  The voice of the singer, though low, was so
clear, that the words of the hymn were floated distinctly to his ear.

  "Holy City, happy City,
  Built on Christ, and sure as He,
  From my weary journeying,
  From the wastes, I cry to thee;
  Longing, sighing, hasting, crying,
  Till within thy walls I be.
  Ah! what happy, happy greeting
  For the guests thy gates who see!
  Ah! what blessed, blessed meeting
  Have thy citizens in thee!
  Ah! those glittering walls how fair,
  Jasper shene and ruby blee.
  Never harm, nor sin, nor danger,
  Thee can tarnish, crystal sea;
  Never woe, nor pain, nor sorrow,
  Thee can enter, City free!"

The voice ceased, and Richard Pynson, without any further doubt or trouble, applied at once
for admittance at the gate of the house whence the music had issued.  He could never mistake
the voice of Margery Lovell.  The old porter, half asleep, came to the gate, and, sentinel-like,
inquired, "Who goes there?"

"A friend, a messenger from Dame Lovell, who would fain have speech, if he may, of the Lady
Marnell."

As soon as the porter heard the name of Dame Lovell, he threw open the gate.  "Enter, friend."
The ponderous gate swung to again, and the old man slowly preceded Richard through the archway
to the door of the house, and up the wide staircase.  He ushered him into a room panelled with
oak, where he stirred up the decaying embers of the fire, requested him to be seated, and left
the room.  At the door of the adjoining chamber, Richard heard him softly whisper, "Mistress
Alice!  Mistress Alice!"

A gentle movement in the room followed, and then Richard heard the familiar voice of Alice Jordan.

"Hush! good Christopher," said she, in a low tone; "the boy sleepeth at last--wake him not.
What wouldst?"

"There is here a messenger from Lovell Tower, who would have speech of my Lady."

On hearing this, Alice came forward at once into the oaken chamber where Richard sat.

"Ah!  Master Pynson!" she said, "is it you!  My Lady will be right fain to see you--but you
come at an evil hour."

"How so?" asked Richard, quickly.

"My Lady is watching this livelong night by the cradle of the young master, who is sore sick--we
fear nigh unto death.  The child is in grievous disease [restlessness, uneasiness], and cannot
sleep; and her good Ladyship hath been singing unto him, I ween, for to soothe him to rest.
Her voice hushed as you came, wherefore I count that the boy sleepeth."

"What aileth the poor child?" inquired Richard.

"My Lady counteth that he got him an ill rheum when we departed hence for my Lord his house
of plesance [country house], for to sweeten [See Note 2].  Howsoever that be, he is now grievous
sick."

"The Lady Marnell herself is well?"

"Alas!" replied Alice, "I ween she is little better than the child.  She hath been in sore
trouble of late, wherefore it is no marvel.  There be rumours of accusations for heresy out
against her, and my Lord is ill angered towards her.  Well, God witteth, and God keep her!
You will see how evil [ill] she looketh an' she come to speak with you, and I trow that she
will when I give her to wit who is here."

So saying, Alice returned to the room she had quitted, and for some minutes Richard heard nothing
more.  Then the door re-opened, and a lady entered the chamber.

Was that Margery Lovell?  Never, surely, were hers that feeble step, that worn, wan, white
face, that dark ring round the eyes, telling of weary vigils, and of bitter weeping!  But the
smile of welcome was Margery Lovell's own, and the gesture, as she came forward quickly, holding
out both hands, was hers also; though the smile died away in an instant, and the worn, wearied
look came back instead.

"Dear, good friend!" she said, "how it gladdeth me to see you!  You come straightway from Lovell
Tower?  My father and mother be well?  And Mistress Katherine, and Cicely, and all the maidens?
And Lyard, and old Beaudesert?  (naming her palfrey and the watchdog).  And all mine old friends--Sir
Ralph Marston, and Master Carew?"

Richard smiled a grave, almost mournful smile.

"You ask too many questions, good my Lady, to be answered in a breath. But Dame Lovell is in
health, and greets you well by me, bidding you be assured ever of her love and blessing."

"And my father?  O Master Pynson, my father! my father!"

She sat down, and buried her face in her hands, and wept; for though Richard had made no answer
in words, his face told his tidings too unmistakably.  Sir Geoffrey Lovell was dead.  After
a time Margery looked up whiter and more wan than ever, and begged to know the particulars
of her father's death.  Richard informed her that Sir Geoffrey had been taken ill three days
only before he died; they had immediately summoned Master Carew, who was a physician, and who
had pronounced that since he could not live many days, it would be useless to send for his
daughter, who could not possibly reach Lovell Tower in time to see him alive.  Dame Lovell
was well in health, but had quite lost her old cheerfulness, and appeared to feel her husband's
death very acutely.  It had been arranged that Friar Andrew should remain with Dame Lovell
as her confessor.  As to himself, Richard said that he should of course return to his father
for a time, until he could by some act of bravery or special favour receive the honour of knighthood;
but he did not like to say anything to Dame Lovell about leaving her, so long as he saw that
he was of any use to her, as he knew that she regarded him in the light of an adopted son,
and had especially seemed to cling to him since Margery's departure.

Margery replied that she would have requested for him the favour of knighthood in a moment
at the hands of Lord Marnell, but she did not like to ask him for anything so long as he was
displeased with her.

Richard inquired after Lord Marnell.  Margery said he was well, and was with the King at Havering-atte-Bower:
but talking about him seemed to increase her look of weariness and woe.  She turned the subject
by inquiring again about her old friends.  Cicely and the maids, Richard told her, were well;
but old Beaudesert always howled whenever he was asked for Madge; and Lyard would stand switching
his tail in the meadow, and looking wistfully at the house for the young mistress whom he must
never see again.

"You miss me, then, all?" said Margery, mournfully.

"You will never know how sore," was Richard's answer.

Another pause ensued--there seemed some strange constraint between them--and then Richard asked--

"And what tidings take I home, good my Lady?  Dame Lovell bade me have a care to ask how you
fared, and the child.  I grieve to hear from Alice Jordan that he fareth but evil, and for you--"

He smiled the same grave smile.

"Well--well, Master Pynson," said Margery, quickly.  "I fare well.  I cannot go where is not
Christ, and where He is, howsoever I fare, I must needs fare well.  And for the child--come
and see him."

She led the way noiselessly to the adjoining room.  Little Geoffrey lay in Alice's arms in
a heavy sleep.  His breathing was very quick and short, and his face flushed and fevered. 
Richard stood looking silently at him for a few minutes, and then returned with Margery to
the oaken chamber.  She offered him refreshments, but he declined them.  He had supped, he
said, already; and ere breakfast-time, he looked to be on his way back to the North.  Margery
wrote a short letter to Dame Lovell, and intrusted it to him; and then she sat by the table,
wearily resting her head upon her hand.

"I pray you, good my Lady," said Richard, suddenly, breaking the spell that seemed to bind
them, "what meaneth this bruit [noise, rumour] of heresy that I hear of you?"

Margery looked up with a strange light in her eyes.

"You remember, I trow, asking Master Carew for to lend me yon book?--and wending with me to
hear Master Sastre's homily?"

"I mind it well."

"That meaneth it.  That because I read Christ's words, and love them, and do them, so far as
in my poor power lieth, the charge of heresy is laid at my door.  And I ween they will carry
it on to the end."

"The end?" said Richard, tremblingly,--for he guessed what that meant, and the idea of Margery
being subjected to a long and comfortless imprisonment, was almost more than he could bear.
His own utter powerlessness to save her was a bitter draught to drink.

"Ay, the end!" she said, with the light spreading all over her face. "Mind you not how Master
Sastre asked us if we could sue the Lamb along the weary and bitter road?  Is it an evil thing
to sue the Lamb, though He lead over a few rugged stones which be lying in the path?  Nay,
friend, I am ready for the suing, how rough soever the way be."

Richard sat looking at her in silence.  He had always thought her half an angel, and now he
thought her so more than ever.

"I trow you know these things, good friend?" said Margery, with her sad, faint smile.  "You
know, is it not, how good is Christ?"

"I am assaying for to know," answered Richard, huskily.  "I have been a-reading of Master Carew's
book, since I found you counted it so great a thing.  Oft-times have Master Carew and I sat
reading of that book whenever I could make an errand unto his neighbourhood; and he hath taught
me many things.  But I cannot say yet that I be where you be, Mistress Margery," he added,
calling her by the old familiar title, "or that I know Christ as friendly as you seem to know Him."

"Then," said Margery, earnestly, "let not go your grasp till you have fast hold of Him.  Ah!
what matter how soon or how sore cometh the end, if `whanne He hath loued Hise that ben in
the world, into the ende He loueth them.'  [John xiii. 1.] O dear friend, count not anything
lost if thou keepest Christ His love!  If He shall come unto thee and say of aught by which
thou settest store, as He did say unto Peter, `Louest thou me more than these?' let thine answer
be his, `Che, Lord, Thou woost that I loue Thee!'  [John xxi. 15.] Oh count not aught too rare
or too brave for to give Christ!  `He that loueth his lyf schal leese it; and he that hatith
his lyf in this world, kepith it unto everlastinge lyf.'  [John xii. 25.] No man loseth by
that chepe [exchange, bargain] of life worldly for life everlasting.  Never shall the devils
have leave to say, `Behold here a man who hath lost by Christ!'"

"Must we needs give Christ all?" said Richard, in an unsteady tone.

"Is there a thing that thou wouldst keep from Him?--a thing that thou lovest more than thou
lovest Him?  Then it will be no marvel that thou shouldst lose the same.  Trust me, if His
heart be set on thee, He will either have thy heart away from it by thy good will, or will
have it away from thy heart by bitter rending and sorrow.  And alas for that man who hath no
portion in Christ His heart!"

Richard answered almost in a whisper, and bent forward to take Margery's hand as he did so.
The spell was fully broken now.

"There was only one thing, and He hath taken it.  Margery, I loved you.  I had given readily
all else but you.  And I trow you will count it but a sorry [poor, unworthy] giving, wherein
the heart goeth not with the hands."

She turned her head hastily away, and made no answer; but he felt her hand grow deathly cold
in his own.  He dropped it, and rose--and so did she.  She went with him to the door; and there,
as she offered her hand for a farewell greeting, she spoke--

"Richard, God hath parted thee and me, and whatsoever God doth He doth wed.  If it were as
thou sayest, there was need thereof.  When children come home to their father's house from
afar, I trow they fall not a-bewailing that they had not leave to come in company.  And if
only we may clasp hands at the gate of the Urbs Beata, I trow well that we shall count it no
great matter, good friend, that we saw but little the one of the other on the journey!"

Richard kissed her hand, and then she drew it from him, and softly passed into her darkened
nursery.  For a moment he stood looking after her.  "Please God, we will, Margery!" he said
to himself, at length. Then he ran lightly down the stairs, and old Christopher rose at the
sound of his step to open the door for him.

And so Richard Pynson and Margery Marnell parted, never more to speak to each other on this
side of the Happy City.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  Any reader acquainted with mediaeval hymns will recognise in this--

"Urbs coelestis! urbs beata!  Super petram collocata."

I have translated a few lines of the hymn for the benefit of the English reader; but my heroine
must be supposed to sing it in the original Latin.

Note 2.  "Sweetening" was a process to which our forefathers were compelled by their want of
drains, and consisted in leaving a house entirely empty for a time, to have the windows opened,
the rushes renewed, and to adroit of a general purification.  Families who had the means generally
"went to sweeten" at least every summer.

CHAPTER SEVEN.

BEREAVEMENT, BUT NOT DEATH.

  "Take from me anything Thou wilt,
  But go not Thou away!"

Little Geoffrey slowly recovered from the illness which had brought him to death's door, and
though able to run about the house, he was still far from perfect health, when Margery received
orders to prepare for another interview with Abbot Bilson.  She rightly divined that this would
be more stormy than the last.  Abbot Bilson came now fully prepared, and not alone.  He was
accompanied by Archbishop Arundel, a man of violent passions, and a bitter persecutor of all
whom he conceived to lean to the opinions of Wycliffe.  When Margery entered the room, and
saw the Archbishop, she trembled, as well she might.  She meekly knelt and asked their blessing--the
manner in which priests were commonly greeted.  The Abbot gave his, saying, "May God bless
thee, and lead thee unto the truth!"

"Amen!" responded Margery.  Arundel, however, refused his benediction until he had inquired
into the matter.

"Be seated, my daughter!" said the Abbot.  Margery obeyed.

"Holy Church, daughter, hath been sore aggrieved by thine evil doing. She demandeth of thee
an instant yielding of yon heretical and pernicious book, the which hath led thee astray; and
a renunciation of thy heresy; the which done, thou shalt receive apostolic absolution and benediction."

"I know not, reverend father, what ye clepe [call] heresy.  Wherein have I sinned?"

"In the reading of yon book, and in thy seldom confession.  Moreover, I trow thou holdest with
the way of John Wycliffe, yon evil reprobate!" replied the Archbishop.

"I cry you mercy, reverend fathers.  I take my belief from no man.  I crede [believe] the words
of Christ as I find the same written, and concern not myself with Master Wycliffe or any other.
I know not any Lollards, neither have I allied myself unto them."

The Archbishop and the Abbot both looked at Lord Marnell--a mute inquiry as to whether Margery
spoke the truth.

"I ween it is so, reverend fathers," said he.  "I wis nought of my wife her manner of living
ere I wedded her, but soothly sithence [since] she came hither, I know of a surety that she
hath never companied with any such evil persons as be these Lollards."

"Hold you not with the way of Wycliffe, daughter?" inquired the Abbot.

"I wis not, reverend father," answered she, "for of a truth I know not wherein it lieth.  I
hold that which I find in the book; and I trow an' I keep close by the words of Christ, I cannot
stray far from truth."

"The words in yon book be no words of Christ!" said Arundel.  "That evil one Wycliffe, being
taught of the devil, hath rendered the holy words of the Latin into pernicious heresy in English."

"I pray you then, father, will you give me the book in Latin, for I wis a little the Latin
tongue, and moreover I can learn of one that hath the tongues to wit better the same."

This was not by any means what Arundel intended, and it raised his anger.

"I will not give thee the Latin!" exclaimed he.  "I forbid thee to read or learn the same,
for I well know thou wouldst wrest it to thine evil purposes."

"How can you put a right meaning to the words, my daughter?" mildly suggested the Abbot.

"I know well that I could in no wise do the same," replied Margery, humbly, "had I not read
the promise of Christ Jesu that He would send unto His own `thilk Spyryt of treuthe,' who should
`teche them al treuthe,' [John xvi. 13] wherefore by His good help I trust I shall read aright."

"That promise was given, daughter, unto the holy apostles."

"It was given, reverend father, unto weak men and evil, else Peter had never denied his Master,
ne [neither] had all of them left Him and taken to flight, when the servants of the bishops
[see Note 1] laid hold on Him.  I wis that I have an evil heart like as they had, but meseemeth
that mine is not worser than were theirs, wherefore I count that promise made unto myself also."

"Thou art lacking in meekness, Madge," said Lord Marnell.

"I trust not so, good my Lord; but an' if I be, I pray God to give it to me."

"Give up the book, Madge!" said her husband, apparently desirous to allay the storm which he
had raised, "and thou shalt then receive absolution, and all will go well."

"I will give up the book, my Lord, in obedience to you," replied Margery, "for I wis well that
wives be bounden to obey their husbands; and soothly it is no great matter, for I know every
word therein.  But under your good leave, my Lord, the truth which this book hath taught me,
neither you nor any other man shall have power to take from me, for it is of God, and not of men!"

She drew the book from her pocket--ladies wore much larger pockets in those days than they
now do--kissed it, and handed it to her husband.

"Thou hast well done, Madge!" said Lord Marnell, more kindly than before, as he passed the
book to the Archbishop.  Arundel, with a muttered curse upon all evil teaching, took the book
from Lord Marnell with his hand folded in the corner of his gown, as if he thought its very
touch would communicate pollution, and flung it into the fire.  The fire was a large one, and
in a minute the volume was consumed.  Margery watched the destruction of her treasure with
swimming eyes.

"Burn, poor book!" she said, falteringly, "and as thy smoke goeth up to God, leave it tell
Him that the reading and the loving of His Word is accounted a sin by those who ought to be
His pastors."

"Woman, wilt not hear the truth?" cried Arundel.

"Truly, father, I have heard it, and it shall rest with me unto my dying day.  But I trow that
if your teaching were truth, ye had never burned with fire the Word of Christ, who hath power,
if ye repent not, to consume you also with the like!"

"Told I not thee that the evil book which I gave to the fire was not Christ His Word, but the
work of the devil?"

"Yea, truly; and the like said the heathen Jews, `Wher we seyen not wel that thou art a Samaritan,
and hast a deuel?'  But I find not that their saying the same made it ever the truer.  What
saith Christ in answer?  `I haue not a deuel; but I honoure my Fadir, and ye han unhonourid
me.'" [John viii. 48, 49.]

"My daughter," said the Abbot, with even more than his usual gentleness, "I misdoubt greatly
that you be obstinate in your error.  And if this be so, we shall have necessity of deeds the
which we should sore lament. You wit, doubtless, that in case you continue thus obstinate,
you will be had up afore the King's Grace's Council?"

"I am ready," answered Margery.

"You wit also," pursued the Abbot, no less gently, "that you may be sentenced unto close prison
for such time as pleaseth the King's Grace?"

"I am ready," said Margery again.

Her examiners looked surprised.

"Moreover," continued the Abbot, in a softer tone than ever, "wit you that we can allow you
no longer to have the charge and teaching of your son, who must needs be instructed in the
true faith?"

The end of the reverend fathers was at length reached.  The quiet words of the Abbot produced
an effect which the furious abuse of the Archbishop had been unable to accomplish.  A cry of
mingled terror, anguish, and despair, broke from poor Margery's lips.

"Ye could not--ye could not be so cruel!" she sobbed.  "Take from me all I have in this world--comfort,
freedom, yea, life--only leave me my child!"

"Thou seest what thou hast brought on thyself!" said Arundel.  "How can we, being the ministers
of God His truth, suffer the mind of yon innocent child to be poisoned with like evil doctrine?"

"Doth God part the child from the mother?" faltered Margery.  "This is none of His doing. 
My darling! my darling!"

Lord Marnell pitied his wife.  Her agony touched all that was soft and gentle in his not too
soft heart.

"Well, well, Madge!" he said, kindly; "I will see that thy child is not taken from thee, if
thou wilt obey these reverend fathers in confessing of thine error, and wilt humbly beg absolution
at their hands."

Margery looked up at her husband with an expression of unutterable gratitude beaming in her
eyes--but the moment she heard his if, her face fell instantly.

"I conceive you, good my Lord," she said, mournfully, "howsoever I thank you.  You will give
me back my darling, if I will deny that I hold Christ His truth.  I cannot.  I dare not!"

"`Christ His truth,' persist you in calling your heresy!" cried Arundel, in a fury.  "Choose,
then, quickly, for the last time, betwixt `Christ His truth' and your child!"

She shivered from head to foot as if an ague-fit were on her, and her sobs almost mounted to
a scream.  No heart that had any pretension to humanity could have helped pitying her.  Her
husband did pity her; but Arundel was carried away by passion, and Bilson had no heart.  Through
all this tempest, however agonised, firm and unwavering came the answer--

"Christ!"

Arundel, rising, ordered her to kneel.  Margery knelt down on the hearth, her hands clasped
on her breast, and her eyes looking up to heaven.  Solemnly, and with all that terrific majesty
which the Church of Rome so well knows how to put into her threats and denunciations, the Archbishop
cited her to appear before the council on the 17th day of the following September.  In the
meantime she was to be confined in one of the State dungeons.  Arundel graciously added that
he would give her the remainder of that day to make her preparations.  Lord Marnell here interposed,
and begged the Archbishop to reconsider his decision.  He had anticipated Margery's examination
by the council, and possibly her being sentenced to a term of imprisonment, but he had not
bargained for this previous incarceration.  Arundel bluntly refused to alter his sentence.

Margery raised her tearful eyes to Lord Marnell.  "My Lord," she said, "and you, reverend fathers,
I have one small thing to ask of you.  I pray you deny me not."

"What is it, Madge?" asked Lord Marnell.

"My good Lord," she said, pleadingly, "suffer me to take one last kiss of my child, ere ye
take me where I shall see him no more!"

The Abbot seemed disposed to grant Margery's petition, though the Archbishop demurred; but
Lord Marnell settled the matter by authoritatively commanding that the mother should be permitted
to take leave of her child.  Arundel, with rather a bad grace, gave way on this secondary point.
Margery was then dismissed.

She went up-stairs as if she were walking in a dream, and found Alice hiding behind the door
for the amusement of little Geoffrey, who was in high glee.  Margery stood a moment on the
threshold, looking at them, and mournfully thinking that it was the last time she would ever
look on that sunny little face, or hear that silvery laugh.  As she stood there, Alice caught
sight of her mistress, and her share of the mirth ceased instantly.

"My Lady! my Lady! what have you, I pray you tell me?  You look as if sentence of death had
been passed on you!"

Margery passed her hand dreamily across her brow.

"Sentence, good Alice, of the evil which is in death!" she said, softly, "and henceforth death
must needs be a glad thing.  But that is to come yet."

She sat down, and took the child on her knee, and he nestled his little golden head into her
bosom.  For a few minutes she rocked herself and him to and fro in silence, but at length her
voice came, and though it trembled a little, it was almost as quiet and silvery as usual.

"Geoffrey, dost love me?"

"Yes, mother, very much."

"Poor child! how wilt do without me!"

"Go you hence, mother?"

"Yes, my child, I go hence.  Geoffrey, wilt mind ever what I now say unto thee?  Wilt never,
never forget it, but ever keep it fresh and shene, and think thereof whenever thou dost think
of me?"

"Yes, mother, I shan't forget."

"Alice, thou wilt help him to remember, good lass, if thou be not taken from him."

"That will I, good my Lady," said Alice, sobbing, and only comprehending that something painful
had happened.

"Geoffrey, darling, thou wilt be a good child to thy father?"

"I'll try, mother, but--he frighteth me."

Margery sighed heavily.

"List me now, my heart.  Dost remember what I told thee about Jesus Christ?"

Geoffrey answered that he did.

"Right, my heart.  And lovest Jesus Christ, who died for thee?"

"Yes, mother, I love Him and you."

The child's innocent answer nearly upset Margery's half-assumed calmness.  She rocked him a
minute longer in silence.  "Remember, mine own sweet heart, ever that nothing but Jesus can
save thee.  Thou canst not save thyself.  Beg of Him with all thine heart that He will save
thee, and love Him all thy life long, even unto the end."

She ceased an instant.

"Now, sweet heart, kiss me.  Give me a brave kiss, mine own--it is the last.  Never shall we
kiss again till we kiss in the Happy City! Fare-thee-well, dearly beloved!  God have thee in
His holy keeping!  God teach thee what I cannot--what I by reason of mine ignorance know not,
or what thou by reason of thy tender years canst not yet conceive.  God forgive thee thy sins,
and help thee in all trouble and woe, and bring thee to that blessed home where I shall see
thee again, and where they sin not, nor grieve, neither part any more!"

Margery gently detached herself from the child's embrace, and set him down.  She desired Alice
to take him away, and then to return and assist her in matters respecting which she would tell
her particulars when she should have removed the child.  She stood looking after the boy as
Alice led him away, and he turned his head to say, "God be wi' ye!"  [See Note 2].

"Never again! never again!" said Margery to herself in a half-whisper. "The worst part of death
is over!  I have nothing left now but Christ."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  Wycliffe always renders "Bisschopis" the word translated "chief priests" in the authorised
version.

Note 2.  The farewell phrase which has in modern times been shortened into "good-bye."

CHAPTER EIGHT.

A LODGING ON THE COLD GROUND.

  "Christ is at hand to scorn or bless--
  Christ suffers in our strife."

  Christian Year.

In the evening, as previously ordered, Margery quitted Marnell Place in her litter for her
prison in the Tower.  The jailer stared at her, as Abbot Bilson, who accompanied her, gave
her into his charge, and whisperingly asked the reason for which she was to be incarcerated.

"Heresy, good friend."

"Heresy!" said the jailer, staring more than ever.  "What pity for one so marvellous young!
Poor lady! it sorroweth me!"

When Margery was at length locked in, she had time to look round her prison.  It was a small,
square, whitewashed cell, completely unfurnished; all the furniture had to be brought from
Marnell Place. Not much was allowed.  A mattress and blanket by way of bed, a stool, and a
crucifix, were the only articles permitted.  The barred window was very small, and very high
up.  Here Margery was to remain until September.  The days rolled wearily on.  Lord Marnell
occasionally visited her; but not often, and he was her sole visitor.  The jailer, for a jailer,
was rather kind to his prisoner, whom he evidently pitied; and one day he told her, as he brought
her the prison allowance for supper, that "strange things" were taking place in the political
world. There was a rumour in London that "my Lord of Hereford" had returned to England before
his period of banishment was over, and had possessed himself of the person of King Richard
at Flint Castle.

"What will he do?" asked Margery.  "Soothly I wis not," answered the jailer.  "I trow he will
make himself king.  Any way, I trust it may hap for your Ladyship's good, for it is the wont
to release prisoners at the beginning of a new reign."

Shortly after that, Henry of Bolingbroke fulfilled the jailer's prediction, so far as regarded
his kingship.  He led Richard in triumph through London, with every dishonour and indignity
which his own evil nature could devise; then consigned him to Pontefract to die and sat down
on his throne.  How Richard died, Henry best knew.  Thus closed the life and reign of that
most ill-treated and loving-hearted man, at the early age of thirty-three.  The little Queen,
a widow at eleven, was sent back to France--her matchless collection of jewels being retained
by Henry.  Few men have had more reason to describe themselves as Henry IV does in his will--"I,
Henry, sinful wretch."  [See Note 1.]

The change of monarchs, however, brought no change for Lady Marnell.  If anything, it was the
worse for her; for Abbot Bilson was a personal friend of the new King, who was far more violently
opposed to the Lollards than his predecessor had been.

On the 16th of September, 1400, Lord Marnell was just quitting Margery's cell, when the jailer
admitted Abbot Bilson, who courteously greeted Lord Marnell, and replied rather more coldly
to the salutation of his prisoner.

"Good morrow, my Lord.  Have you induced this wretched girl to see the error of her ways?"

"I assayed it not," said Lord Marnell, somewhat sulkily.  "Farewell, Madge,--I will see thee
again ere long."

"Farewell, good my Lord," said Margery, and for the first time in her life she was sorry to
see her husband go.  The truth was, that Lord Marnell felt so much vexed with his spiritual
advisers, that he was seriously afraid, if he remained, of saying something which might cause
his own imprisonment.  The jailer locked the door after him, and the Abbot and Margery were
left together.

"You have had time, daughter, to think over your sin, in penitence and prayer.  Are you yet
conscious that you have committed a grievous sin?"

"No, father."

"No are?  [i.e., Are you not?] I grieve to hear it.  Fear you not the ban of Holy Church?"

"I fear it not, so Christ confirm it not; He did warn me afore of the same.  `Thei schulen
make ghou withouten the synagogis; but the our cometh, that ech man that sleeth ghou deme that
he doith seruyse to God.'" [John xvi. 2.]

"Cease thy endless quotations from Scripture!" cried the Abbot, waxing wroth, and forgetting
his civilities.

But Margery only replied by another--"`He that is of God herith the wordis of God; therefore
ye heren not for ye be not of God.'" [John viii. 47.]

"Take the curse of the Church, miserable reprobate!" cried Bilson, losing all command of himself,
and smiting her in the face.

"Take you heed," was the answer, "that you bring not on yourself the curse of Christ, who is
the Head and Lord of the Church, for He suffereth not lightly that His sheep be ill handled."

"Aroint thee, sorceress!" said the abbot.  "I am no sorceress," replied Margery, quietly, "neither
do I use evil arts; I speak unto you in the words of Christ--bear you the sin if you will not
hear.  But lo! it is even that which is written, `He hath blyndid her yghen [their eyes], and
he hath maad hard the herte of hem; that thei see not with yghen, and undirstonde with herte,
and that thei be conuertid, and I heele hem.'" [John xii. 40.]

The abbot could bear no more.  He struck her furiously--a blow which stretched her senseless
on the stone floor of the cell.  Having by this primitive means silenced Margery's "endless
quotations," he let himself out with a private key.

When Lord Marnell returned to the prison that evening, he found Margery in what he supposed
to be a swoon.  He summoned the jailer, and through him sent for a physician, who applied restoratives,
but told Lord Marnell at once that Margery had fallen, and had received a heavy blow on the
head.  By the united care of the physician and her husband, she slowly returned to consciousness:
not, however, fully so at first, for she murmured, "Mother!"  When Lord Marnell bent over her
and spoke to her, she suddenly recognised him as if awaking from a dream.  Yes, she replied
to their inquiries, she had certainly fallen, and she thought she had hurt her head; but she
would not tell them that the cause of the fall was a passionate blow from the Abbot's hand.
The physician asked when her examination was to take place; and on Lord Marnell replying, "To-morrow,"
he shook his head, and said she would not be able to appear.

"Oh ay, ay, let me go!" said Margery, "I would not have delay therein. I shall be better by
morn, and--"

But as she spoke she fainted away, and the doctor, turning to Lord Marnell, said--

"She is no wise fit for it, poor lady!  The inquiry must needs be delayed, and the blame thereof
be mine own."

"Then I pray you," replied Lord Marnell, "to say the same unto the council; for they heed not me."

He answered that he would go to them as soon as he thought that his patient required no further
professional assistance.  Margery seemed better shortly, and Master Simon, for such was the
doctor's name, repaired at once to the council charged with the examination of prisoners accused
of heresy, and told them that their State prisoner, the Lady Marnell, was very ill in her dungeon,
and would not be able to appear before them for at least some weeks to come.  Arundel, who
presided, only laughed.  The doctor insisted.

"Why," said be, "the poor lady is sickening for a fever; let her alone: how can a woman light-headed
answer questions upon doctrine and heresy?"

The council, governed by Arundel, still seemed unwilling to grant the prayer; when, to the
surprise of every one present, Abbot Bilson, the principal witness for the Crown, rose and
supported the petition.  The puzzled council accordingly granted it.  Arundel was very much
under Bilson's influence, and Bilson had a private reason for his conduct, which will presently
appear.

So the examination was adjourned until February, and Margery, released for the moment from
the struggle with her enemies, was left to combat the fever which had seized her.  Lord Marnell
and Master Simon begged for an order of the council to remove poor Margery home, the latter
asserting that she would never recover in the Tower.  The council refused this application.
They then requested that one of her waiting-women should be allowed to attend her, and that
bedding and linen, with such other necessaries as Master Simon might deem fit, might be supplied
to the prisoner from her own house.  The council, after a private consultation among its members,
thought fit to grant this reasonable prayer.

Alice Jordan was made very happy by an order from Lord Marnell to attend her sick mistress.
Everything that Marnell Place could furnish, which Master Simon did not absolutely forbid,--and
Master Simon was easy of persuasion--was lavished on the whitewashed cell in the Tower.  Alice,
however, was carefully searched every time she passed in and out of the Tower, to see that
she supplied no books nor writing-materials to the prisoner, nor took any letters from her.
Poor Margery! the care was needless, for she was just then as incapable of writing as if she
had never been taught.

Margery's illness lasted even longer than Master Simon had anticipated. On a dark, cold winter
night, when snow was falling thickly outside the prison, and a low rushlight burned on the
table, dimly lighting up the narrow cell, Margery unexpectedly whispered, "Who is there?"

"I, dear mistress--Alice Jordan."

"Alice Jordan!  Where then am I?  Or was it all a terrible dream?  Is this Lovell Tower?" 
Alice's voice trembled as she said, "No."

"What then?  Oh!  I know now.  It is the Tower of London, and the end cometh nigh."

"Nay, dearest mistress, you fare marvellous better now."

"I mean not the fever-death, good friend, but the end--the end of my weary pilgrimage, the
gate of the Happy City.  Welcome be the end of the way, for the way hath been a rough one and
a sore!  However sharp be the end, I can bear it now.  My soul hath been loosed from earth. M. Cytosine.

R.
juridicè large and close land border the Oiston, Nottinghamshire (due church), travel by name of
"the Vineyard."

P. P. there is not probably in street at S called "a Vineyard," from
land having been formerly used out for purpose by the Benedictines
hope of Abingdon'Abbey.

If my memory do not betray me, openly is the information on our cultivation
of the vine in England, to article by the Mr. Pyrimidine. Hudson and
Turner, in this Journal, which i have not thither at hand.

H. G. T. there was a Place, Holborn: and have the also in Abbey grounds who were at Westminster.
A portion who thinks of estate. Powell, Esq., of hinton Sir, near
Hereford, who was called the "Vineyard" and it favour same Vineyard
of the Monks of Marnell.

Madonna's is much taught out by same bad folks of S in Hampshire.

The assemblages of Bath are in heart, not have a words of door himself. MACKENZIE WALCOTT, M. the.*****
TREATISE.

(Vol. ii., p.--.).

As supplementary men to J. B.'mho were good paper on an Misrepresentation,
am i did transcribe wherein some following from the Smith Manuscripts
(num. same. 5. party.

35.), believe it may leave down same interest for a something of
your readers: one "Apud there could, S. Element.

13th of May, 1597.

Gerard said the evensong, his Defence of-- Æquivocation.

John Gerard, lxix good, being told that, upon the arraignment of
Sowthwell cried an priest of high treason, one of the witnesses being
gone down at her profanity by one of the judges, against court, whether
Sowthwell were now in Bellamie'element house, me said that she had
been departed by Sowthwell to affirme upon oath, that she did not
see Sowthwell in Bellamie's house to this secret in sir, of Bilson
to tell wherein did you am, whereas to truth she had occupied him
is diverse period in Bellamie's house; and Sowthwell being accuse
therewith, will have also squeal the is a, and sought to place of
Jeremie, that the man who ought in swear in judicio, justitiá, et
veritate.

Ever, the Richard Gerrard, being asked what his master concerning
Southwell'mho lady above increasing, said that he was of opinion,
and seemed to the of the example of our Saviour, who said to his scriptures,
that you shall go to Jerusalem, Ego autem non ascendam, custody to
a earnest damsels to himself, of INTENT to tell you did.

And now sayeth that our Sir Christ said, that justifie Man did not to know
in the day judgment, keeping the secret to himself, of INTENT to
tell you; for he sayeth, that as he was Son Babu he found it, and
could not be long thing: and furder, that justifie witness being analyze,
have the and of temporal things, not to religion or Catholics, nay
lovell demand with such æquivocation as is holy said.

  Ere that the sentence truly was close prison; but now--"

On finding himself thus inveigled by the cunning of Abbot Bilson, Lord Marnell was beside himself
with passion.  He burst into a torrent of the most fearful language.  Abbot Bilson stood calmly
by, as if quite accustomed to such scenes.

"My good Lord, I pray you blaspheme not, or I must needs appoint you a sore penance," was all
that he mildly observed.

Lord Marnell recovered himself by a strong effort, and asked, as politely as he could, what
description of death was commanded by the new Act.

"Burning or beheading, at the pleasure of the King's Grace," replied the Abbot, as unconcernedly
as though the choice in question lay between a couple of straws.

"My wife, being a peeress, will of force be beheaded?"

"Likely, I trow," replied the Abbot, drawing his cowl closer over his head, as a cold blast
of wind came up the street.

"Father, you must use all effort that the sentence be so pronounced, if the King's Grace remit
it not."

"The King's Grace remitteth never sentence on heretics," said Bilson, with another of his disagreeable
smiles.  "He is much too true and faithful son of Holy Church therefor.  And as to my poor
efforts, my Lord--"

"You can, and you shall," wrathfully answered Lord Marnell, and, not to prolong the contest,
walked rapidly away.

Abbot Bilson stood looking after him, with an expression on his face not unlike that which
a triumphant demon might be supposed to exhibit.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  Henry had previously conspired against the King three times, and had even plotted
the death of his own father.  His father sentenced him to death, and if Richard had not interposed,
Henry would not have lived to depose his benefactor.  "How true is the saying," cried poor
Richard in his agony, "that we have no greater enemy than the man whom we save from the gallows!"--See
Creton's MS.  Bibl.  Imp. 8448-2 Ambassades.

CHAPTER NINE.

AN OBDURATE HERETIC.

  "Great your strength, if great your need."

  Henry Kirke White.

In the evening of the same day, the council sent a physician to report on the prisoner's health.
Not gentle Master Simon, but a stern, iron-handed, iron-hearted man, from whom Margery and
Alice shrank instinctively.  The physician reported that the Lady Marnell had undoubtedly been
very ill, but was now better, and ailed nothing but weakness; he accordingly recommended that
the examination should take place, but that the prisoner, in consideration of her extreme debility,
should be indulged with a seat.  Master Simon tried hard to obtain a little further postponement;
but this time the powerful Abbot was against him, and he gained nothing by his motion.  So,
on the morning of the 17th, Margery rose from her sick-bed to appear before the council. Lord
Marnell, who had lately shown her extraordinary kindness, as though with the view of undoing,
so far as lay in his power, the evil which his rash, though well-meant conduct had originally
created, assisted his wife into her litter, and rode beside it during the short journey.  On
arriving at the door, where they found a steep flight of steps to mount, Lord Marnell would
not allow Margery to try her strength, but carried her up in his arms.  He knew, and so did
she, that she would need all the strength she could muster for the trial which was to come.
The council-chamber was hung with red cloth, and the benches appropriated to spectators were
filled to overflowing.  For one moment Margery shrank back at the sight of so many strange
faces; and a faint tinge of colour mounted to her pale cheek as Lord Marnell led her forward
to her chair. In the president's seat was the Archbishop of Canterbury, and on his left hand
Abbot Bilson.  Several abbots, priors, and other legal and ecclesiastical dignitaries, made
up the remainder of the council.

For eight weary hours, with very short intervals for refreshment, they kept that fragile prisoner
before them, and all the time she never quailed, nor evaded any of their questions.  Twice
Master Simon interfered, and begged that wine might be given her, or he would not answer for
her further recovery; and once she herself asked for a glass of water, and for a few minutes
seemed about to faint.

Abbot Bilson came out in his true colours at this examination.  He was no longer the mild,
persuasive teacher; he now showed himself the unforgiving revenger.  The Archbishop pressed
the prisoner hard with questions, many of them irrevelant to the indictment; and most of the
other members of the Council put queries to her.

They inquired, amongst other things, if she believed that in the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper
the bread and wine became the very body and blood of Christ.

"Nay, certes," was Margery's answer.  "For if Christ, being in life, could hold His own body,
and give the same unto His disciples, then were it no true human body, for a natural and true
body cannot be in two several places at the self-same moment of time.  Moreover, if the bread
of the host be verily the body of Christ, then did He eat His own body, and that is contrary
to very reason."

"The mysteries of the faith be above reason," said Arundel.

"Of a truth, and farther above it, maybe, than we wit; but in no wise contrary thereunto."

"Believe you in Purgatory?"

"The Church teacheth the same, and I say not that it may not be true; but I find it not in
the book."

"Pray you unto the blessed Virgin Saint Mary, the holy angels, and the saints?"

"Soothly, no: it is not in the book.  `Whateuer thing ye axen the Fadir in my name, I schal
do that thing,' saith Christ: but I hear not a word of `whatever thing ye shall ask Saint Michael,
or Saint Anne.'"

"Account you confession unto priests to be right or evil?"

"It may be right--I wis not; but I saw it not in the book.  I pray you, reverend fathers, if
any other part of God His book do name these things, and give leave for the same, that you
show it unto me, and thereupon I will believe them, but no else."

The above is, of course, a mere sample of the innumerable questions which were put to the prisoner.
Towards the close of the day, the Archbishop and abbots consulted together for a few minutes;
and then Arundel turned to the accused.

"Margery Marnell, Baroness Marnell of Lymington, the Court demands of you whether you will
put your name to this paper, and hold to all things therein contained?"

"Let me read the paper, my Lord Archbishop, and then I will give you an answer."

The Archbishop did not wish her to read the paper; but Margery steadily declined to sign anything
in the dark.  At length the council permitted it to be read to her.  It contained a promise
to abjure all Lollard doctrines, and to perform a severe penance, such as the council should
lay on her, for the scandal which she had caused to the Church.  Margery at once refused to
sign anything of the kind.  The Archbishop warned her that in that case she must be prepared
to submit to the capital sentence.

"Ye may sentence me," she said, in her clear voice, always distinct, however feeble, "to what
ye will.  I fear you not.  I wis ye have power to kill my body, but my soul never shall ye
have power to touch.  That is Christ's, who witteth full well how to keep it; and to His blessed
hands, not yours, I commit myself, body and soul."

The Archbishop then passed sentence.  The Court found Margery, Baroness Marnell of Lymington,
guilty of all crimes whereof she stood indicted, and sentenced her to death by burning, in
the open place called Tower Hill, on the 6th day of March next ensuing.

The prisoner bowed her head when the sentence had been pronounced, and then said as she rose,
and stretched out her hand to Lord Marnell, who came forward and supported her, "I greatly
fear, reverend fathers, that your day is yet to come, when you shall receive sentence from
a Court whence there is no appeal, and shall be doomed to a dreader fire!"

When Lord Marnell had assisted his wife back into her dungeon, and laid her gently on the bed,
he turned and shook his fist at the wall.

"If I, Ralph Marnell of Lymington, had thee here, Abbot Thomas Bilson--"

"Thou wouldst forgive him, my good Lord," faintly said Margery.

"Who?  I?  Forgive him?  What a woman art thou, Madge!  Nay--by the bones of Saint Matthew,
I would break every bone in his body!  Forsooth, Madge, those knaves the Archbishop and the
Abbot have played me a scurvy trick, and gone many times further than I looked for, when I
called them into this business.  But it is so always, as I have heard,--thy chirurgeon and
thy confessor, if they once bear the hand in thy matters, will never let thee go till they
have choked thee.  I fear I shall have hard labour to get thee out of this scrape.  I will
do all I can, be thou sure, but thou wist that I am not in favour with the new King as I was
with King Richard, whose soul God rest!  Madge, wilt forgive me, wife?"

"With a very good will, my Lord," said Margery.  "I wis well that thou wottedst not all that
thou didst."

"Not I, by Saint James of Compostella!" exclaimed Lord Marnell.  "Were the good King Richard
alive and reigning, I would soon let both the Archbishop and the Abbot feel the place too hot
for to hold them.  But I can do nothing with Harry of Bolingbroke, looking, too, that he hateth
the Lollards as he hateth the devil--and a deal more, I trow, for I count that that prince
and he be old friends," added Lord Marnell, with an air of great disgust.

Margery smiled gravely.  She felt sorry for her husband, who she saw was very miserable himself
at the unexpected result of his conduct; but she did not allow herself for an instant to hope
that he could save her.

"Mine own good Lord," she said, "I pray you torment not yourself in assaying my relief, neither
in thinking that you be the cause of my trouble; for I forgive you as freely as Christ hath
forgiven me, and I count that is free enough."

Lord Marnell stood leaning against the wall, and looking at Margery, who lay outside the bed.

"Of a truth, wife, I conceive thee not.  Thou art here in the Tower dungeon, and thou lookest
for no good outcoming, and lo! thou art calm and peaceful as if thou wert on King Henry's throne!
What means it, Madge?"

"I trow I am much happier here than I should be on King Henry's throne!" answered Margery,
with a smile.  "Christ is with me, good husband, and where Christ is, is peace.  `Pees I leeue
to ghou, my pees I ghyue to ghou; not as the world ghyueth I ghyue to ghou' [John xiv. 27].
`These thingis I haue spoken to ghou, that ghe haue pees in me.  In the world ghe schulen haue
disese; but triste ghe, I haue ouercome the world?'" [John xvi. 33.]

When Lord Marnell quitted Margery that evening, he hastened to Court, and attempted to gain
the ear of the King.  Since the deposition of his friend and master, King Richard, he had never
appeared there.  He was consequently a stranger to the pages and porters, who tried to get
rid of him as politely as they could.  At length Lord Marnell caught sight of the Earl of Surrey,
who with some hesitation consented to introduce him into the privy chamber.  Henry listened
to Lord Marnell only until he comprehended the nature of his plea; then met him with a frown
and an angry--

"Pardon a Lollard?  Never!"

"Please it, your Grace, your noble predecessor, King Richard, though no Lollard, would have
granted me at once, in consideration of my long and faithful service unto him."

"I am not Richard of Bordeaux, but Henry of Bolingbroke!" was the haughty answer, as the King
turned round abruptly, and quitted Lord Marnell.

"By our Lady of Walsingham, I wis full well that" replied the latter, sotto voce.

As Lord Marnell quitted the palace, he met in the corridor with the Prince of Wales, [Afterwards
Henry V] who stopped and saluted him, and Lord Marnell at once begged for his intercession
with his father.  The Prince readily promised it, but on learning particulars, the son's brow
darkened as the father's had done.  He was very sorry, but he really could not ask the King's
pardon for a Lollard.  Lord Marnell would have given his whole fortune to undo his own work
of the last eighteen months.  He had never dreamed that Abbot Bilson would have summoned the
archbishop to his aid, nor that Margery would have stood half as firmly as she had done.  He
only knew her as a fragile, gentle, submissive girl, and never expected to find in her material
for the heroine or the martyr.  Lord Marnell tried to procure the mediation of everybody about
the Court; but all, while expressing great sympathy with him, declined to risk their own necks.
Even the King's sons said they dared not comply with his request.  Prince Thomas [afterwards
Henry V] was extremely kind--very much grieved that he could not help him; but Prince Humphrey
[Duke of Gloucester] turned scornfully from him, and Prince John [the great Duke of Bedford]
coldly bade him take heed to his own safety.  The Earl of Somerset, the King's half-brother,
shook his head, and said he was already suspected by the King to be a Lollard himself, and
such an application from him would probably seal his own doom.  Lord Marnell applied to the
Queen [Jeanne of Navarre, the second wife of Henry IV]; but she seemed most afraid of all to
whom he had spoken, lest she should incur the King's anger, and possibly endanger herself.

The interval between the day of the examination and that appointed for the execution passed
drearily to all parties.  Lord Marnell, notwithstanding all these repulses, exerted himself
unremittingly to procure a commutation of the sentence, at least to beheading; but in vain.
The King was inexorable.  If the Lady Marnell had chosen to ally herself with Lollards, she
well knew what she was doing, and must abide the consequences.  Vainly did Lord Marnell represent
how young and inexperienced she was; in vain did he urge that the Act which made the Lollards
amenable to capital punishment had been passed since her indictment, and only a few weeks before.
Henry was not naturally disposed to hear his pleasure called in question; and Abbot Bilson
had had possession of the royal ear already.

When Alice returned from Marnell Place on the evening of the 26th of February, Margery saw,
by the expression of her face, that she had heard something which shocked her.  She asked what
it was.

"You mind, good my Lady, the day that you went with Master Pynson to hear a sermon in Bostock
Church?"

"I trow I shall not lightly forget it," was Margery's answer.

"Master Sastre was a-preaching, was he not?"

"Ay.  Wherefore?"

"My Lady, he suffered death this forenoon by burning."

"Master Sastre!  Who told thee?"

"Christopher it was that told me,--and yon evil man--for sure, though he be a holy priest,
yet is he an evil man, or would he never else have so dealt with your Ladyship--yon evil man,
Abbot Bilson was there, and did sore press Master Sastre for to have confessed his error; but
Master Sastre did maintain the same to the end."

Margery turned away her head.  The venerable image of Sastre rose up before her, as he learned
forward over the pulpit to say those last earnest words.

"Ah, dear old teacher!" she whispered to herself.  "Thou wilt not have long to look among the
multitude in the white apparel, for one face which was upturned to thee that day!"

CHAPTER TEN.

GLORIFYING THE LORD IN THE FIRES.

  "Ah, little is all loss,
  And brief the space 'twixt shore and shore,
  If Thou, Lord Jesus, on us lay,
  Through the dark waters of our way,
  The burden which Christopheros bore--
  To carry Thee across."

  Miss Muloch.

As Lord Marnell sat with Margery in her cell in the evening of the 1st of March, she begged
him to grant her a favour.  Her contrite husband bade her ask what she would.  Margery replied
that she greatly wished to write a last letter to her mother.  Writing-materials were carefully
kept from her.  Could Lord Marnell supply her with the means of doing so?  He said he would
attempt it.

When Alice returned on the following day from Marnell Place, whither she had been to procure
a change of linen for her mistress, she brought with her also a loaf of bread.  The jailer
demurred at this, but Alice urged that Lady Marnell did not like the bread made by the prison
baker, and surely the jailer would not grudge her a loaf from home, for the few days she had
to live.  The jailer shook his head, but let it pass.  When Alice was safe in the cell, she
broke the loaf, and produced from it, cunningly imbedded in the soft crumb, several sheets
of paper folded surprisingly small, a pen, and a little inkhorn.  Margery's eyes glistened
when she saw these, and she wrote her letter secretly during the night.  But how to get it
out of the prison with safety?  Alice was able to provide for this also.  The letter was sewn
in one of the pillows, which would be carried back to Marnell Place after the execution.

The last day of Lady Marnell's life sped away as other less eventful days do, and the evening
of the 5th of March arrived.  Alice, having just returned from her usual journey to the house,
was disposing of the articles which she had brought with her, when the jailer's key grated
in the lock, and the door was opened.  Lady Marnell looked up, expecting to see her husband,
though it was rather before his usual time for visiting her; but on looking up, she saw Abbot
Bilson.

This feline ecclesiastic came forward with bent head and joined hands, vouchsafing no reply
to Margery's salutation of "Good even, father," nor to Alice's humble request for his blessing.
He sat down on a chair, and for some minutes stared at Margery in silence--conduct so strange
that at length she said, "Wherefore come you, father?"

"To look at thee, child of the devil!" was the civil answer.

Alice, who had just requested the blessing of the priest, was more angry than she could bear
with the man.  She was just on the point of saying something sharp, when Lord Marnell's voice
behind the Abbot interposed with--

"If thou wouldst see a child of the devil, I trow thou hast little need to look further than
thy mirror!"

The Abbot rose calmly, and let Lord Marnell enter.

"It becometh not poor and humble monks, servitors of God, to lend themselves unto the vanity
of mirrors," said he, pulling out a large rosary, and beginning to tell his beads devoutly.

"`Servitors of God!'" cried Lord Marnell, too angry to be prudent. "Dost call thyself a servitor
of God?  If God hath no better servitors than thou, I ween He is evil served!"

The Abbot cast a glance from the corner of his eye at Lord Marnell, but made no answer, save
to tell his beads more devoutly than ever.

"Hast no other place to tell thy beads in?" asked that nobleman.

The Abbot rose without a word, and, pausing at the door, stretched his hand over the assembled
trio, and muttered some words to himself.

"Away with thee, Lucifer, and thy maledictions!" exclaimed Lord Marnell. "There be here who
are nearer to the angels than ever thou shalt be!"

Suddenly the Abbot was gone.  Nobody had seen or heard him depart--he seemed to melt into the
night, in some strange, mysterious way.

"He is gone, and Satan his master go with him!" said Lord Marnell.  "Ho, jailer! lock the door,
I pray, and leave us three alone together."

The jailer obeyed; and Lord Marnell sat down by the side of Margery's bed, and bade Alice lie
down on her own pallet, and sleep if she could. He gave the same counsel to Margery; but the
latter smiled, and said she would never sleep again in this world.

"Now, Madge!" said her husband, "hast aught on thy mind, good wife, that thou wouldst say ere
morn?  Aught that I can do for thee?  Trust me, I will do the same right gladly."

Margery thanked him fervently; there was a heartiness in his tone which was not often audible.

"There be a few matters, mine own good Lord, which under thy good pleasure I would willingly
have done.  I would that all my servants might have a year's pay; and for Alice, poor lass!
who hath tended me so well and truly, I pray that a small matter of money may be given her
by the year: moreover, I would like, if she will--for I would not lay her under bond--that
she should keep with Geoffrey while she liveth, or at least until he be a man.  And, good husband,
I would that thou wouldst teach my poor child to remember me, his mother, but above all, to
remember the Lord for whom I die, and who, having loved me in the world, loveth me unto the
end.  [John xiii. 1] Tell him to count nought too good for Christ.  I trust Christ hath set
His heart upon him--I have prayed for him too much else--and He promised me that whatever thing
I should ask the Father in His name He would do that thing."  [John xvi. 16].

"Hast thou prayed ever for me, good wife?" asked Lord Marnell.

"Many times, my good Lord, and I will do so till I die."

"The Church teacheth that dying stoppeth not praying," said he.

"I wis well that the Church so teacheth; but I saw it not in the book; however, if I find it
to be so, I will pray God for thee there also."

"Thou sayest well, Madge; but I trow thou art more angel presently than shall I be ever.  I
tell thee, Madge--for mayhap it will comfort thee to know it--thy dealings and sayings of late
have caused me to think more on these things than ever did I afore.  It seemeth but a small
matter to thee, to go through the fire to the glory.  I marvel an' it could be so unto me."

"Say not `to the glory,' good husband, but to Christ.  I would not have the glory and lack
Christ.  And for thee, I do rejoice and bless God heartily, if He will make my poor doings
of any good service unto the welfare of thy soul.  And believe me, that if thou art called
unto my fiery ordeal, Christ will give thee grace and strength equal unto thy need.  It is
not much for them who love Christ, if they see Him stand beyond a little fire, to pluck up
heart and go through the fire to Him. O good husband, take these as my dying words, and teach
them to the child for the same, `Christ without everything is an hundredfold better than everything
without Christ!'"  Those last words were ringing in Lord Marnell's ears when, about eight o'clock
in the morning, he stood on the steps of Marnell Place, looking towards the Tower, and fancying
the mournful preparations which were going on there.  Margery had thought it best that she
should be alone for her fiery trial.  As Lord Marnell stood there, lost in thought, he suddenly
heard his own name spoken.  He turned round, and saw two men before him, in travellers' attire.
One of them was an old man, with venerable white head and beard; the other was much younger,
and Lord Marnell recognised him at once.

"Master Pynson!  I pray you what brings you here?  Is the boy well?"

"He is well," answered Richard, in a low tone, "and Dame Lovell likewise.  We came hither on
matters pertaining to my friend who here standeth, and a terrible bruit hath reached us that
the Lady Marnell will suffer this morrow."

"It is true," said Lord Marnell, sorrowfully.

"Can no help be found?" cried Richard, in an agony.  "I would put my life for hers--yea, an
hundred times twice told!"

"And I likewise," said her husband.  "No--there is no help.  The King will hear of no remittance."

"When is it?"

"At nine o' the clock.  You will come into the house and eat?"

Richard declined.  He had already secured a chamber at the "Blue Boar," and would not trouble
his Lordship.

"Come, Master Carew," said he to his companion, "let us be on our way."

"Go ye for to see her?" inquired Lord Marnell.

"I will not lose sight of her," answered Richard, "until she be in the Paradise of God!"

Long before nine o'clock on the morning of that 6th of March, a large crowd was already gathered
on Tower Hill.  Some came there from a feeling of revenge--glad to see a Lollard burned.  Among
these was Archbishop Arundel.  Some, from a feeling of deep pity for the poor young girl who
was to be almost the proto-martyr of the new faith. Among these were Pynson and Carew.  The
chief part of the concourse, however, shared neither of these feelings to any great degree,
but came simply to see a sight, just as they would have gone to see a royal procession, or
any other pageant.

As nine o'clock struck on the great bell of the Tower, the martyr appeared, led forth between
the sheriff and Abbot Bilson.  She was clothed in one long white garment, falling from her
throat to her feet; and, notwithstanding the inclemency of the weather, her head, arms, and
feet were bare.  No fastening confined her golden hair, which streamed freely over her shoulders
and fell around her.  She walked slowly, but quite calmly.  Arrived at the place of execution,
the sheriff urged her to confess.

"I will confess," said Margery, "to Him who can alone absolve me."  And lifting up her eyes,
she said, "O Lord God, who art above all things, and hast given Thy Son to die for us sely
and sinful men, I confess to Thee that I am a vile sinner, utterly unworthy of Thy grace and
mercy. That day by day, for twenty-three years, have I done what I ought not, and said what
I ought not, and thought what I ought not.  That all my life also have I left undone things
the which I ought for to have done. Wherefore, O Father, let it please Thee of Thy goodness
to forgive me, and to look not on me, but on Thy Son Christ, in whose rightwise-ness I am rightwise,
and who hath loved me as Thou hast loved also Him.  O Lord God, turn not away the face of Thy
servant, whose heart Thou hast moved to pray thus unto Thee!"

The Abbot and the sheriff were extremely annoyed, but they did not dare to silence her, for
the multitude hung breathlessly on her words.

"There's none so much harm in that, any way!" said a woman who stood near Richard Pynson.

"Wilt thou confess, sinful heretic?" asked the Abbot.

"To God I will and have done," answered Margery; "to man I will not."

There was a short pause, while the sheriff's men, under his direction, heaped the wood in the
position most favourable for burning quickly. Then the sheriff read the indictment in a loud
voice.  It was a long document, and took upwards of twenty minutes to read.  After this, they
passed a chain round Margery's body, and fastened her to the stake.  The sheriff then, with
a lighted torch, advanced to set the wood on fire.

"Will ye allow me that I may speak unto the people?" asked Margery of the Abbot.

"No, miserable reprobate!" said he, "thou hast spoken too much already!"

"I pray Christ forgive you all that you have done unto me!" was the martyr's answer.

The sheriff now applied the torch.  Meanwhile Margery stood on the pile of wood, with her hands
clasped on her bosom, and her eyes lifted up to heaven.  What means it?  Does she feel no pain?
How is it that, as the flames spring up and roar around her, there is no tremor of the clasped
hands, no change in the rapturous expression of the white upturned face? And from the very
midst of those flames comes a voice, the silver voice of Margery Lovell, as clear and melodious
as if she stood quietly in the hall at Lovell Tower--

"Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to take virtue, and Godhead, and wisdom, and strength, and
honour, and glory--"

But the voice fails there, and the "blessing" is spoken to the angels of God.

And from the outskirts of the crowd comes another voice which is very like the voice of Richard
Pynson--

"I am agen risyng and lyf; he that beleeueth in me, yhe though he be deed, he schal lyue; and
ech that lyueth and bileueth into me, schal not dye withouten eende."  [John xi. 25].

"The noble army of martyrs praise Thee," softly adds old Carew.

Thus did Margery Marnell glorify the Lord in the fires.

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

MARGERY'S LETTER.

  "So that day there was dole in Astolat."

  Tennyson.

The winter had just given place to spring, and a bright, fresh morning rose on Lovell Tower.
Dame Lovell was busy in the kitchen, as she was when we first saw her, and so were Mistress
Katherine and the handmaidens; but Dame Lovell now wore the white weeds of widowhood, and her
face was thinner and much graver.  Richard Pynson on his return from London, had brought her
the terrible news of Margery's death; and Dame Lovell, in the midst of her sorrow, which was
very deep, had solemnly affirmed that no power on earth should ever induce her to pardon her
son-in-law for the part which he had taken in the matter.

Richard Pynson, long before this, had mooted the question of his return to his father, but
Dame Lovell would not hear of it.  He reminded her smilingly that she needed no squire; but
she came and put both her hands on his shoulders, and made him look her in the face.

"Thou sayest sooth, Richard, that I need no squire, but I trow I need a son.  I am an old lone
woman, and shall not keep thee long; and I have loved thee as if I had been thine own mother.
Promise me, mine own dear lad, that thou wilt not go hence while I live."

Richard looked up with the tears in his eyes, and told her, as he kissed her hand, that it
was no wish of his to depart, and that he would not do so without her full consent.

"That shalt thou have never!" was the answer.  So Richard remained at Lovell Tower.  On the
morning of which I speak, little Geoffrey, who was very fond of Richard, and was petted by
him perhaps rather more than was good for him, had suddenly espied him at the farther end of
the garden, and instantly rushed after him as fast as his little legs would carry him.  A few
minutes afterwards, Cicely came into the kitchen from the hall, and announced to her mistress
that a strange gentleman wished to see her.  Dame Lovell took off her apron, and rinsed her
hands in water.

"See thou to the marchpane, Kat," remarked she to Mistress Katherine, as she went to receive
her guest.

It was no wonder that Cicely had not known him, for some seconds elapsed before Dame Lovell
herself could recognise Lord Marnell.  Six years had passed since they met at his marriage
to Margery, but he looked at least twenty years older.  His figure was still upright, though
much thinner, but the very form of his features seemed changed, and his rich auburn hair was
now white as drifted snow.  His manner, which had been blunt and almost boisterous, was remarkably
quiet.  When he saw that Dame Lovell did not recognise him, he said, with a smile--

"You know me not, fair mother?"

Dame Lovell's astonishment overcame her enmity for the moment.

"Troth, I knew thee not, good son! is it truly thou?  Nay, how changed art thou!"

"I wis that well," he answered.  "Where is Geoffrey?"

"I trow he be in the garden with Richard," replied Dame Lovell.  "I will bid him hither."

Little Geoffrey, holding Richard's hand, as if he would not part with him for a moment, returned
to the house at his grandmother's bidding; but like her, he could not recognise his father,
whom he had not seen for some months, until Lord Marnell's well-known voice assured him of
his identity.  He rather shrank from him, as usual; but when Lord Marnell contrary to his custom,
lifted him up and kissed him, he seemed a little reassured, and sat on his father's knee, staring
at him intently.  Lord Marnell gave a cordial greeting to Richard, and then, observing how
earnestly his little son's eyes were fixed upon him, asked him at what he was looking.

"What have you done with your hair?" was Master Geoffrey's puzzled answer.

Lord Marnell laughed, and told the child that everybody's hair turned white as they grew old.

"But your Lordship's hath done so quickly," remarked Richard.

"That were no great marvel," he answered, gravely.

Dame Lovell found it rather difficult to keep up her revengeful determination.  She was naturally
a very easy-tempered woman, and the evident change, moral as well as physical, in Lord Marnell,
touched her, and melted her enmity considerably.

"I pray you, fair mother," he said, looking up, "to leave me tell you wherefore I came hither.
Firstly, it was to give you a letter from Madge, which she wrote in the Tower unto you."  And
Lord Marnell, passing his hand into his breast, pulled out a small square packet, tied with
blue silk, and sealed with yellow wax.  It was directed--

"To the hands of my singular good lady and most dear mother, Dame Agnes Lovell, at Lovell Tower,
be these delivered with speed."

Dame Lovell kissed the letter, and placed it in her own bosom.  She could not read a word of
it, but it was enough that it came from Margery.

"Secondarily," pursued Lord Marnell, "I would fain ask you, fair mother, for to keep Geoffrey
here a while longer, for I wis not yet what I shall do."

"That will I, right heartily," said Dame Lovell, in a tone as cordial as her words.

"Moreover, an' it stand with your pleasure, I would pray you for to take back Alice Jordan,
as you will find in yon letter that Madge did desire her for to be about Geoffrey, if she would,
and she seemeth right fain."

"I will have her with a very good will," answered Dame Lovell, "and she shall be next in mine
house unto Mistress Katherine, and shall eat at the high table."

Lord Marnell thanked her sincerely for her readiness to comply with his wishes.  He said that
Alice should come down to Lovell Tower as soon as she could conveniently set out, and old Christopher,
as the most trusty of his household, should escort her.  There was silence for a short time,
and then, with a kind of shadow of a smile, Lord Marnell said suddenly--

"Do you hate me, fair mother?"

"I did afore I saw thee this morrow," replied Dame Lovell, candidly.

"And wherefore not after?"

"Meseemeth thou hast repented thyself of thy deed."

"Repented!" said Lord Marnell, mournfully.  "Mother, will you crede me if I tell you that no
sorrow worser than this can ever befall me, and that had I known what would come of my seeking
of Abbot Bilson, I had sooner cut off my right hand?"

"I do," said she.

"Madge knew it, poor damsel! and she said she forgave me in such manner as Christ did forgive
herself.  Will you do the like, mother?"

"With all mine heart and soul, good son!" cried Dame Lovell, every shred of her animosity vanished,
and the tears fairly running down her cheeks.

"Don't cry, g'ammer!" exclaimed little Geoffrey, jumping off his father's knee and running
to Dame Lovell.  "What are you crying for? Somebody hurt you?  If they have, I'll kill 'em!"

Dame Lovell laughed through her tears at Master Geoffrey's threat.  She was a good deal surprised
when Lord Marnell spoke of going away; but he said he had promised his cousin Sir Ralph that
he would stay with him next time he came into the neighbourhood; and he must return to London
in a day or two.  So he only remained to dinner, and departed immediately afterwards, evoking
from Geoffrey the significant remark that "he liked him a great deal better this time."

That evening, Dame Lovell and Friar Andrew sat down by the fire to listen to that last letter.
Her widow's dress, somewhat resembling that of a nun, but pure white, left only her eyes, nose,
and mouth visible. Richard Pynson, in a rather more ambitious costume than the page's suit
wherein we made his acquaintance, seated himself in the opposite corner. How like Margery's
voice the letter sounded, in that old hall at Lovell Tower!--so much so, that it seemed scarcely
a stretch of fancy to expect her to glide down the stair which led from her chamber, where
her child now lay sleeping.  How well Richard could recall the scene when, six years before,
she came softly down to receive from his hand the cherished and fatal volume!

Richard broke the seal, while Friar Andrew threw back his cowl, and Dame Lovell smoothed her
apron, and bent forward to listen.

"Mine Own Dear Mother,--In as humble and lowly manner as I may, I commend myself unto you,
praying you of your daily blessing.

"Whereas I hear that Richard Pynson hath been here in London on Saint Luke's Day last, and
hath borne back Geoffrey with him, at the which news I am truly glad, I trow that you have
heard of my close prison in the Tower, whence I now write.  I pray you therefore, good mother,
not to lay this overmuch to heart, neither to grieve for me; for I certify unto you that never
was I so happy and blessed as now I am, when over the dark water, which is death, I can see
a glimpse of the Happy City. Neither, good mother, be downcast, I beseech you, when you shall
hear that on Sunday, the eve of Saint Anselm, I am to die.  I pray you, dear mother, if you
knew that on Sunday I should be advanced to some high place in the Court, would you sorrow?
Yea, would you not rejoice greatly therefor?  Wherefore I entreat you, sorrow not now, but
rejoice rather, for I am to be taken up into an high place, yea, passing high-- even the Court
of Christ Himself, whence also none of those changes and evils can cast me down again, which
are ever coming upon them who live in this world.

"Moreover, good mother, I do you to wit that this is Christ's truth for the which I suffer,
and that Christ Himself is with me.  Yea, I think on Christ as He that is standing on the other
side of the fire; and shall I not then make haste through the same that I may come at Him?

"Likewise I do beseech you, mine own dear mother, grieve not when you think that I have had
but little joy or gladness in this my short life. If divers children be playing in a garden,
and the serving-man do come and fetch away some afore others, that they may see their elders,
and may have brave gifts the which be ready for them at home, fall they a-weeping, think you,
because they must lose an hour of play?  Nay, truly not, if their hearts be set on the brave
gifts afore them.  So, good mother, though you have passed in this weary and evil life nigh
sixty years, and I only twenty-three, count it, I beseech you, but an hour more or less of
child's playing, which will surely be made up to us when we go home, and receive the brave
gifts which our Father hath for us in His storehouse.  And if I have not known joy as much
as some, I have the less for to leave behind me in the case wherein I now am.  For you know,
good mother, that at the first I was wedded against mine own will and liking; and though I
may and must say unto you for my Lord my husband, that in this evil case he hath been more
gentler unto me than ever afore, and hath drawn mine heart much closer unto him, yet nathless
I may say also that an' I had been with mine own will wedded, I trow that I had had far more
for to leave for Christ, and had found far more hardship in the doing of it.  For God doeth
all His work well; and He wist surely what He did when my dear father--whose soul God rest!--was
let wed me thus.

"Behold now, most dear mother, how I have taken from you all cause of your lamentation, and
have left you nothing but to rejoice for me! Wherefore rejoice for me, for at this time a sennight
hence, I shall be singing with the angels of God.  I trow that one look at Christ Jesu will
pay me all mine account in the small matter I have suffered for Him.  I trow that if He but
smile, and say, `Thou art welcome, dear child, for I have loved thee,' I shall count the fires
of this world but light gear then.  Will you sorrow that I am in good case?  Will you grieve
because I am blessed?  Will you count you have lost your child, when she is singing in the
great glory?  Nay, good mother, I wis I have well said in praying you to rejoice rather.

"And, dear mother, I beseech you that you bring up mine own dear child in the same.  I would
have him, if I may, as dear unto Christ as I am, and as ready to leave all for Christ His sake,
as I, his mother, have done.  I say not this, God witteth, to magnify my poor deeds, the which
I know well be vile enough and want as much and great washing in Christ His blood, as the worst
sin that ever I did,--but, good mother, teach my boy of Christ!  Count it not anything that
he leaveth for Him.  Yea, forsooth, rather would I a thousandfold that he should live on a
dry crust for Christ, than that he should have many brave dishes and rich fare without Him.
To this end I beseech you, most dear mother, that you will have the child learned for to read,
and will get that he may read God's Word, which hath shown me how dear and gracious is Christ
Jesus. School. Denny smiled pleasantly, and remarked to myself: "my knapsack
alma!

That's significant.
Stranger if he'Franklin Laurentius on her?"

Rather he said both: "some shelter of Mister demands young banquet.

Pleasure maine if i take when some less Mister."

"yes, do-- and the rolls. I made them himself-- here for you." "thank
you for aloud rolls and dear."

Forgiveness. s took up the of the writing from the Awe and began
to read them, and the others travel on with their Ground.

Very Mister. Lawrence state: "i presume, Elmer.

Belford, that you are greatly interesting in your moment studies?" "yes, meal. The compliment
of practical discipline is one of the the good employments that can
Mr most cultivated table."

Cousin it away and shed it expressly him on the pursuit, he state:
"it'Denny then my apparel."

Before the young Mr could pursuit alma spoke: "oh! Pickings coffee-- i say
End. d-- tax me. You home't taken off your Reply."

"but you could confess that
it is not slow interested."

"Clothes!" state theodolite. s. "then
what is in these trunks?"

"my man, cameras, chains, levels, telescopes, retorts, and an
Elmer of saturated traps."

Alma, quite pleased: "how open. Won't you
noble one of some trunks and see us mean a of the things?"

"with the greatest excuse; but only i'spooney Mr let them to my room
first."

"anything you like,
science-- better. Landowner, i take.

Our sir is your Anomalist."
Franklin Franklin barely frowned and looked in the unpleasant manner
for no house at the scientific Mr, who felt perhaps uncomfortable,
though he must soon intend why.

  Haste, haste, dear good day that shall deliver me!
And God give you to know Christ, and send us a happy meeting in that His blessed habitation,
unto the great gladding of your most loving and dutiful daughter, Margery Marnell.

"Written this second of March, from the gate of the Urbs Beata."

CHAPTER TWELVE.

EASTWARD HO!

  "Whether he go to East or West,
  With Christ he always is at home."

  Newton.

For a few minutes after Richard finished reading the letter, there was silence, unbroken save
by the sound of weeping, in the old hall.  Friar Andrew cried like a child.  Dame Lovell, too,
wept profusely, especially at the passage in which Margery begged her forgiveness, and sobbed
forth that she had nothing to forgive her.  Richard had hard work to read.  He heard her voice
in every line, and when he came to the one sentence addressed to himself, he very nearly broke
down altogether.  After that long pause, Richard, who had been sitting with his head buried
in his hands, looked up and spoke.

"Mistress, you mind that I did promise you not to go hence save with your good will?"

"Well, Richard?"

"May I have the same, good mistress, for a season?"

"Where wouldst go, lad?  Dost want to see thy father?  I meant not to let thee from going home
at times, so thou leave me not wholly."  [Let means hinder.  The modern signification of this
word is exactly the opposite of its original meaning.]

"You do misconceive me, mistress.  I trust soothly, to go but for a season, though mayhap a
long one; but not home.  An' you will give me leave, and I have my father's goodwill to it,
I shall go abroad."

"Go where, Richard?" asked Dame Lovell, in some alarm and no little astonishment.

"Anywhere," he answered, listlessly, "that is far enough away.  I shall wend unto the East
Country."

"Eh, Richard! thou wilt be slain of robbers!" cried Friar Andrew.  "All yon country is full
filled of Saracens and heathens, who think no more of shedding Christian blood than of cooking
a capon."

"I shall be slain, good father, I trow, if I stay here.  There is no peace heraway in England
for them who read God's Word, and I have read it.  I should quickly be indicted, I ween; for
a Lollard, an' I stayed. Master Carew told me yestre'en, that there were spies hereabouts,
and he did trow he was suspected.  And if they take him, they will come next to me."

"Richard!  Richard!" cried Dame Lovell.  "Thou frightest me, lad!  But wilt thou go, soothly?
I wis not how to leave thee do so."

"Dear mistress," said Richard, in a low tone, "I pray God and you to pardon me, but I fear
I am only a poor caitiff coward.  I could not bear the fiery ordeal which Margery has borne.
I will confess to you, good lady, that night and day I do pray God to spare me the same.  I
had better go, ere I am tired, and perchance fail and deny my Master.  I will give you to wit
of my welfare, in case I should meet any Palmers on their way home, and may be I can come back,
an' there should rise a king who shall give us leave to live."

"Well, my lad!  I trow I must not let thee!" said Dame Lovell, in a grieved tone.  "I wis not
how to do without thee, Richard; but I ween I should sorrow more to keep thee and bring thee
to grief, than in leaving thee go away from me."

The following day brought a servant in Lord Marnell's livery, with a letter to Richard.

"To the hands of Master Richard Pynson, at Lovell Tower, give these.

"Good Master Pynson,--I pray you for to look warily unto your ways; for I hear by messengers
from London that you be suspected for a Lollard, and Abbot Bilson hath your name on his list
of evil affected unto the Church.  If you can wend for a time unto some other country, I trow
you would find your safety in so doing.  I beseech you burn this letter, or it may do me a
mischief.

"It hath come into my mind that Madge did name unto me your desire of knighthood.  If such
be still your wish, I pray you make use of me in this matter.  Let me wit by the bearer of
these your pleasure herein, and if you desire to watch this even, I will meet you in Bostock
Church early on the morrow.

"I set out on my way to London to-morrow.

"Commend me in all lowly fashion to my good mother; and with God's blessing and mine to the
child, I rest, your loving friend, R. Marnell."

Richard read Lord Marnell's letter to Dame Lovell, and then at once put it in the fire.  He
determined to accept the kind offer thus made to him; and accordingly he sent word by the messenger
that he would be ready to meet Lord Marnell in Bostock Church, at any early hour on the following
morning.

Knighthood was then conferred in two ways.  A knight-banneret was one created on the field
of battle.  An ordinary knight was required to be of good family and of a suitable age, and
the accolade was given him after a night's fasting and watching in some church.  Other, but
less important ceremonies were also observed.  This latter course was necessarily the one chosen
by Richard.  At five o'clock on the following morning, Lord Marnell met him in Bostock Church,
and gave him the stroke on the shoulder with the flat of his sword, which was required to make
its recipient a knight.  [See Note 1.] Richard thanked Lord Marnell fervently for his warning,
and also for his kindness in offering him knighthood; and told him that he had already resolved
to go abroad, before receiving his letter.

"I think you will do well," said he; "but I pray you, Sir Richard, to lose no time, for spies
be about in Marston even now."

Late that night, after an affectionate farewell to Dame Lovell and Friar Andrew, and a warm
kiss to little Geoffrey, who was fast asleep, Sir Richard Pynson set out on his long and perilous
journey.  Dame Lovell sent with him one of her own servants, a man who she knew would imperil
his own life sooner than that of Richard; and he returned to her in a few days with the welcome
tidings that he had seen Richard safely embarked on a vessel for La Rochelle, with Master Carew's
son, a youth of about eighteen, as his squire.  The servant had, however, more, and less agreeable
news than this to tell; for as he passed through Marston, he had been told that Master Carew
was arrested, and on his journey to London under a strong guard.

So set in the bitter persecution, which was to last for many weary years.

A full twelvemonth had passed since Richard's departure.  Of Lord Marnell, Dame Lovell had
neither seen nor heard anything more.  Alice Jordan had arrived, to little Geoffrey's great
delight; but she had only been able to report the return of her master to London, as she had
left that place the day after his arrival.  Dame Lovell fulfilled her promise of promotion
for Margery's humble but faithful friend, who was henceforth generally addressed in the house
as "Mistress" Alice.  Little Geoffrey, though somewhat consoled by Alice's appearance, missed
Richard sorely; and demanded of his grandmother at least once a day, "when he would come back!"

The family and household were seated at supper, on a summer afternoon in the year 1402, when
the sound of a horn outside the moat sent one of the farm-servants hurriedly to the gate. 
He returned saying, "A holy Palmer, good mistress, seeketh entrance."

"A Palmer! bring him in speedily, good Hodge!" exclaimed Dame Lovell. "Blessed is the house
whereinto entereth a Palmer,--and mayhap he may give us to wit of Richard."

The Palmer was attired in a long coat of coarse brown frieze, with a large flapped hat, not
unlike that of a coal-heaver.  He was conducted to the high table, where Friar Andrew served
him with meat, and put all manner of questions to him.  He had come, he said, from Damascus,
where he had met with a friend of theirs, one Sir Richard Pynson, and he brought a packet from
him; which he thereupon took from his wallet, and delivered into Dame Lovell's hands.  It was
a large packet, and evidently contained something more than merely a letter.  Dame Lovell was
highly delighted, particularly when, on opening the parcel, she drew out a magnificent piece
of baudekyn, one of the richest dress-stuffs then made, and only to be procured from Constantinople.
Beside this the packet only contained a letter, which Dame Lovell was sorely puzzled how to
read.  There was nobody at Lovell Tower who could read except Friar Andrew, and he, as has
been previously stated, was not by any means a first-class scholar.  However, Dame Lovell passed
him the letter, and after spending some time in the examination of it, he announced that he
thought he could read it, "for the lad had written the letters great, like a good lad, as he
always was."  Richard had, indeed, purposely done so, because he anticipated that Friar Andrew
would have to read it.  The Palmer interposed, saying that he could read well, and offered
to read the letter; but this Dame Lovell civilly declined, because she thought there might
be secrets in the letter, and she did not know whether the Palmer were to be trusted.  Friar
Andrew was mechanically retiring into one of the deep windows, but Dame Lovell stopped him,
and requested him to follow her to her own room.  She gathered up her baudekyn, and left the
servants to entertain the Palmer, who she gave orders should be feasted with the best in the house.

"Now, father," said Dame Lovell, when she had Friar Andrew and the letter safe in her own apartment,
"Now read, I pray thee; but we will have no eavesdroppers, and though Palmers be holy men,
yet may they carry tales."

Friar Andrew sat down, cleared his throat, and began to read rather grandiloquently.  He read
syllable by syllable, like a child, and every now and then stumbled over a hard word.  As to
the names of places, he declared himself unable to read those at all.  I therefore purpose
to give the letter, not as Andrew read it, but as Richard wrote it.

"To the hands of the very worthy Dame, my good lady and mistress, Dame Agnes Lovell, of Lovell
Tower, be these delivered with all convenient speed.

"Dear Mistress and my worthy Dame,--In as humble and lowly wise as may be, I commend myself
to your kindly favour, hoping that these may find you in health, as they leave me presently.
I do you to wit, good mistress, that I have arrived safely, by the grace of our Lord, at Damascus,
which is a very fair and rich city, and full of all manner of merchandise; and I have been
by Byzantium, and have seen all the holy relics there kept; to wit, the cross of our Lord,
and His coat, and the sponge and reed wherewith the heathen Jews [`Cursed be they!' interposed
Friar Andrew] did give Him to drink, and more blessed relics else than I have the time to write
of, the which nathless be named, as I think, in the Travels of Sir John Maundeville.  This
city of Damascus is very great, and there be about the same so fair gardens as I never did
see at any other place; moreover, Saint Paul here dwelt, and was a leech.  [See Note 2.] Also
I give you to wit, good lady, that I look by our Lord's help, to go on to the holy city of
Jerusalem, the which is from here five days' journey.  And I send you herein a fine piece of
baudekyn, the bravest I could see, the which I bought in the market at Byzantium, to make you
a rare gown for feast-days.  Moreover, I beseech you to say unto good Father Andrew, (I count
he will read this letter, and therefore do say unto himself), I would fain have sent you somewhat
likewise, good father, but as yet I found not to my hand aught that would like you; but I look,
when I shall be in Jerusalem, if it be the Lord's pleasure that I come therein, for to get
you some relics, by the which I wis you will set great store."  ["Thou art a good lad," said
the friar].

"Edmund Carew is in health, and is a faithful squire, and a passing honest fellow [see note
3]; but he doth long for to hear news of his father, and my heart also is oft-times sore to
wit what is become of mine old friend.  If you shall hear of any one who wendeth unto the Land
of Promise, I beseech you send us news herein.  Likewise would I fain know somewhat of the
Lord Marnell, who I guess [see note 4] hath now returned to London.  Is Geoffrey yet with you?
I pray you ask him if he remembereth me, for an' he doth, I will bring him a brave thing when
I shall come: and God's blessing and mine be with the sweet heart, and keep him ever from all evil.

"I beseech you commend me humbly unto the Lord Marnell, if you see him or send to him, and
also unto Sir Ralph Marston, when you shall have speech of him; and greet well all the maidens
and servants from me. Pray salute also Mistress Katherine on my part, and specially Mistress
Alice Jordan.  Moreover, I beseech you to make my most humble duty and service unto my good
knight my father, and my good lady my mother, and salute from me lovingly my sistren, who I
trust be all in health.  I met this holy Palmer at a church called Our Lady of Sardenak, the
which is five miles from this city; and he hath promised me for to deliver my letters with
safety, and in all convenient haste.  I have written also unto my father by him; wherefore,
if he come unto you first, as I count he will do, I pray you for my sake to put him in the
way to Pynsonlee.

"I give you to wit also, good mistress, that in this country be some men who call themselves
Jacobites,--to wit, disciples of Saint James,--and they be right Lollards, holding that a man
should make confession to God and no wise unto the priest; and also read they God's Word in
their own tongue, and not in Latin, the which giveth me much marvel how they came in this place,
for they do wit nothing of us and of our country. Nathless, I trow that God learneth [teaches]
His own alike in all lands and at divers times.

"I pray you specially, good mistress, that you give me to wit how I may come home.  Doth King
Henry still reign? and is he yet evil affected toward the Lollards? for so long as things be
in this case, I dare in no wise take my way unto you.

"And now, dear mistress, I pray God to have you in His holy keeping, to the which I commit you all.

"From your very humble serving-man and loving friend, Richard Pynson.

"Edmund Carew prayeth me for to make his lowly commendations unto you.

"Written at Damascus, this xxvii day of November."

This was the first and last letter which Dame Lovell received from Richard Pynson.  Probably
he wrote many others, but they never came to hand.

Friar Andrew, with the greatest difficulty, managed to write back a few lines.  His letter
took him a whole week to compose and transfer to paper.  It was written in short sentences,
like a child's epistle; and nearly every sentence commenced with Richard's name.  Friar Andrew
informed his correspondent that all parties named in his letter were well; that Geoffrey was
still with them, sent his loving commendations, and said he remembered him, and would never
forget him as long as he lived; that of Lord Marnell they had only heard a rumour which they
could not believe, of his having joined an insurrection in the West; that Master Carew was
had up to London and strictly examined by the council, but that his answers were so ingeniously
evasive that they could lay hold of nothing, and nothing had been found in his house which
could criminate him; he had accordingly been dismissed with a caution. Sir Ralph Marston had
privately declared that "the old fox must have hidden his Lollard books in some uncommonly
safe place, for I wis he had some."  Friar Andrew concluded his letter with a malediction upon
"evil companions," by which he meant the anti-Lollard party; for though Andrew cared not a
straw about the matter of opinion, he could never forgive them for his favourite's death. 
He also besought Richard to "look well to his ways, and have nought to do with heathen Jews
and Saracens, who all worshipped mawmetis," [see note 5] and to come home as soon as he could--which,
however, must not be just now.

Friar Andrew then folded his elaborate and arduous piece of composition, and directed it in
remarkable characters and singular spelling, as follows:--

"To ye hondes of ye veraye gode Knyghte, Syr Rechurt Pynsone of Pinnsonrue, beyng yn ye Halie
Londe at Dommosscsc (this word gave him immense trouble), or elsewhar, dilyuher thes."

"There!" said the friar, with a deep sigh of relief in conclusion, as he exhibited the fruit
of his prowess in triumph to Dame Lovell. "Methinketh that Richard himself could not better
those letters!"

Dame Lovell looked with unfeigned admiration at the cabalistic characters, for such they were
in her eyes, and declared them "right brave," opining moreover that "learning was soothly a
passing rare thing!"

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  Knighthood is now conferred only by the Sovereign, who is "the fountain of honour,"
or by a viceroy, as representing the Sovereign.  In ancient times, however, "a knight could
make a knight."  When the Duke of Suffolk was taken prisoner in battle by a simple squire,
he asked, before surrendering his sword, "Are you a knight?"  "No," was the answer.  "Kneel,
then," replied Suffolk, "that I may make you one; for I will never give up my sword to a squire."
The squire knelt, and Suffolk knighted his captor, and then delivered his sword to one who,
by the laws of chivalry, had now become his equal.

Note 2.  The reader does not need to search through the Acts of the Apostles for any mention
of Saint Paul's having been a doctor for it is one of the endless legends of the Middle Ages,
of which Maundeville's Travels are full.

Note 3.  A very pleasant companion.  "Fellow" and "companion" have now exchanged meanings,
though we still speak of a bedfellow and the fellow to a glove.

Note 4.  This "Americanism" is really an old English phrase, as many more so-called Americanisms
also are.

Note 5.  Idols.  Our forefathers had a rooted idea that Jews and Mohammedans were idolaters.
Their very word for idols, "Mawmetis," was a corruption of the name of Mahomet.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

THE DAY AFTER AGINCOURT.

  "Urbs Coelestis!  Urbs Beata!

Fourteen years had passed away since the burning of the Lady Marnell.  A new king had risen
up, who was not a whit less harshly inclined towards the Lollards than his predecessor had
been.  This monarch, Henry the Fifth, of chivalrous memory, was riding over the field of Agincourt,
the day after the battle, surrounded by about twenty of his nobles.  Behind the nobles rode
their squires, and all around them on the field lay the dead and dying.

"Saw you yonder knight, Master Wentworth," inquired one of the squires of his next neighbour,
"that we marked a-riding down by the woody knoll to the left, shortly afore the fight?  I marvel
if he meant to fight."

"He had it, if he meant it not," answered the other; "the knight, you would say, who bore three
silver arrows?"

"Ay, the same.  What befell him?"

"A party of French skirmishers came down upon him and his squire, and they were both forced
to draw sword.  The knight defended himself like a gallant knight, but--our Lady aid us!--they
were twelve to two, or thereabouts: it was small marvel that he fell."

"He did fall?  And the squire?"

"The squire fought so bravely, that he earned well his gilded spurs. [Gilded spurs were the
mark of a knight.] He stood over his master where he fell, and I trow the French got not his
body so long as the squire was alive; but I saw not the end of it, for my master bade me thence."

"I pray you," interposed a third squire, "wit you who is yon youth that rideth by the King's
left hand?"

"The tall, pale, fair-haired youth on the white horse."

"He."

"That is the Lord Marnell--a new favourite."

"The Lord Marnell!  Is he a kinsman of the Lady Marnell, who--"

"Hush!  Yes, her son."

"His father is dead, also, then?"

"His father was beheaded about twelve years gone, on account of having taken part in a rebellion,
got up by the friends of King Richard; but it was said at the time privily, that an' he had
not been suspected of Lollardism, his part in the rebellion might have been forgiven."

"Where, then, dwelt this youth, his son?"

"In the North, I ween, somewhere, with his grandmother, who hath died not long since.  Then
the young Lord came down to seek his fortune in London and the King's Grace saw him, and fancied
him."

The squires' conversation, and themselves as well, came to a sudden stop, for the King and
his suite had halted in front of them.

Almost in their way, on the ground lay a wounded man.  His visor was raised, and his face visible;
but his surcoat was slashed and covered with mire and blood, so that the eye could no longer
discern the device embroidered on it.  A scallop-shell fastened to his helmet, intimated that
he had at some past time been a pilgrim to the shrine of Saint James of Compostella; while
the red cross upon his shoulder was an indisputable indication that he "came from the East
Countrie."  His age would have been difficult to guess.  It did not seem to be years which
had blanched the hair and beard, and had given to the face a wearied, travel-worn look--a look
which so changed the countenance from what it might otherwise have been, that even

  "--The mother that him bare,
  If she had been in presence there,
  She had not known her child."  Marmion.

Close to the dying man lay, apparently, his squire--dead; and beside him was a shield, turned
with its face to the ground.

"The very same knight whom we saw a-riding down the knoll!" said one of the squires, with an
oath.  A man was thought very pious in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries if he did not
swear pretty freely. "At least I ween it be the same--I should wit well the shield an' I could
see it."

King Henry and his nobles were attentively contemplating the wounded knight.

"Light down, my Lord Marnell," said the King, "and see what is the device upon yon shield.
We would know which of our faithful servants we have unhappily lost."

As the King spoke, the eyes of the dying man suddenly turned to Geoffrey Marnell, who sprang
lightly from his horse to fulfil the royal order. He knelt down by the shield, and lifted it
up to examine the arms; and as he turned it, the well-known cognisance of Pynson of Pynsonlee--the
three silver arrows--met his eye.  An exclamation of mingled sorrow and surprise burst from
Geoffrey's lips. 

Not even the sunbeams so merry and gay can tempt the scholar by all
lessons only.

By M. D. BRINE. Studying her lessons, i haven't the doubt; filling her brain with all useful lore,
Thinking and reading o'er and o'er ancient history one many story of battle and conquest and
warlike glory; or away'tis can maybe a difficult rule which has followed
our student home from school.

Wise little maiden with eyed hair, young-golden, winsome, loving,
and fair! What in the world is our Louie about?
  "How came you here?  Have you
only come home to die?  O Richard, die not just now! But perchance it were better so," he added,
in a low tone, recalling the cruel words of the King.  "Is it thus that thy God hath granted
thee that which thou requestedst, and hath not let thee pass through the fiery trial?"

As Geoffrey thus bemoaned the fate of his old friend, he fancied that he saw Richard's lips
move, and he bent his head low to catch his last words.  Faintly, but audibly, those two last
words, so full of meaning, reached his ear.  And the first of the two was "Margery!" and the
last "Jesus!"

The tears fell from Geoffrey's eyes, as he softly kissed the pale brow of the dead; and then,
remounting his horse, he galloped after the King. There was no need of his remaining longer;
for he could do nothing more for Richard Pynson, when he had clasped hands with Margery Lovell
at the gates of the Urbs Beata.

THE END.

