When Sanny Robertson came home that afternoon, he found Mag with swollen lips and half closed
eyes and a face bruised all over. He did not have to wait long for explanations. She railed
and swore and raged until one wondered from where she got all the energy, and all the strength.
It was amazing why she did not collapse altogether.

Sanny sat quietly listening without comment, then washed himself and sat smoking by the fire
for a time. He was a quiet go-as-you-please man, not given much to talking. But finally he
could stand it no longer, and he took hold of his wife by the shoulder, saying.

"Noo, jist you listen, an' for God's sake shut your mooth. It'll no dae a bit o' guid ravin'
like that. We are in a bigger hole noo than ever we hae been in a' oor lives, an' mind that.
I've made up my mind what I am gaun tae dae. Sae listen. I'm gaun straucht awa' ower to Rundell's
the morn, at the time when Mr. Rundell gangs hame frae the office for his breakfast, an' I'll
tell him everything aboot the contracts. Then I'm gaun awa' doon the country tae look for work,
an' I'll flit oot o' here an' tae hell wi't. Noo shut up an' gae me peace and quateness for
an hoor, so that I can think oot things. You get awa' tae bed. Maybe by richt I should gang
doon tae Black Jock an' stap a knife in him--if for nae ither thing than the way he has treated
you the day, I should dae that. But I'm no gaun to dae it the noo. I'm no' blaming you for
what has happened; for I'm mair to blame than you are. But I'll be even wi' that black beast,
an' put an end to his rotten career, someway or another. Sae aff you gang to your bed, an'
gie me a quate hoor tae mysel'," and there was such a quiet authoritative ring in his voice
that Mag dared not disobey it, and she went quietly off to bed while he sat by the fireside
smoking and thinking, and feeling that his home that night must surely be the most unhappy
place on God's earth.

About midnight he knocked the ashes from his pipe, and placing it on the mantelpiece, went
to bed and soon fell asleep, but Mag, an insane decision taking shape in her brain, lay and
brooded and tossed till well on in the morning, when she rose, kindled the fire, "redd up"
the house, prepared the breakfast and awoke her husband to partake of the meal she had prepared.

Never a word was spoken between them, and at last Sanny, after washing and dressing, walked
out without a word, but fully determined in his heart to get equal with Walker before the day
was over.

He went straight to Rundell House, and ringing the bell asked to see the mine owner.

He was shown into a room and Mr. Rundell came to him almost before he had been comfortably seated.

"Well, Sanny," he began genially. "What brings you here this morning?"

"A business that I'd rather no' been comin' on," replied Sanny uneasily shifting on his chair.

"Oh, nothing serious, I hope, is it?"

"Ay, it's serious enough," returned Sanny. "Mair serious than you think, Mr. Rundell; an' I
dinna ken what you'll think o' me after I hae telt you."

"Oh, well, in that case," said the mine owner, becoming serious, and speaking with slow deliberation.
"Just let me hear what it is all about, and we'll see how matters stand after you have told
me," and he sat down in a chair opposite Robertson as he spoke.

"I hae lost my contracts, sir," began Sanny, not knowing how else to open up the subject. "But
I'm gaun to tell you the hale story just in my ain way, so I want you to sit quate and no'
interrupt me; for I hinna jist the knack of puttin' things maybe as they should be put. But
I'll tell you the hale story an' then leave you to do as you like, an' think what you like."

"Very well, Sanny. Just go on. I did not know you had lost them. But just let me hear about
the trouble in your own way."

"For gey near twenty year," began Sanny, "I've had maist feck o' the contracts in your pits
back and forrit--me an' Tam Fleming. Walker an' us were aye gey thick, an' though it maybe
was putten doon to you that oor offer to work ony special job was the cheapest, I may tell
you that I never put in an offer in my life for yin o' them. Walker an'--an'" here Sanny stammered
a little, "Walker an' oor Mag were gey thick, an' I'm ashamed o' this part o' the story; for
I should hae been man enough to protect her frae him. But the money was the thing that did
it, Mr. Rundell, an' I'm no' gaun to mak' excuses noo aboot it. But every bargain I had, I
had to share the pay, efter the men was payed, penny aboot, wi' Walker. That was ay the bargain.
He gaed us the job at his ain feegure, an' we shared the profits wi' him.

"Noo, jist keep yoursel' cool a bit," he said, holding up his hand as Rundell made to speak.
"We did gey well," he resumed in his even monotone, like a man who was repeating something
he had learned by heart. "But gey soon I found that I was expected to spend a good share o'
my pay in drink, while Walker took a', an' never spent a penny. So it was, that for a' the
money we made we've been gey little the better o't, an' very much the worse o' it. Without
exception we shared penny aboot with Walker on every bargain we got, an' I ken he has a guid
bank balance, while I hae nane.

"Noo, this is a rotten story frae end to end o't," he went on after a short pause to wipe his
face with a handkerchief. "I allowed him to ruin my wife's character. I kent it was gaun on
a' the time; but like mony mair I hae kent, a manager's favor was mair to me than the honor
o' a wife. I let him tak' a share o' the money I made, an' spent my ain to keep him up on drink.
But noo it's ended a'. A wheen o' weeks syne, a man ca'd Tam Granger came to the place and
his wife being young an' fresh, an' guid-looking, besides being free, Walker's fancy was ta'en
wi' her. So you ken what it means, when a gaffer carries on like that, an' the man is saft
enough as weel as the woman being willin'. Tam got my contracts this week, an' I have to gang
back into a common place and howk coals.

"Weel, the wife couldna' stand being slighted like thet, an' Granger's wife had been tantalizin'
her too, you ken hoo women rave when they are slighted. So she opened oot on Walker yesterday
mornin' an' followed him up the row, the hale place being turned oot to hear her exposure o'
him. She fair gaed mad wi' anger I think, an' lost a' control o' hersel' an' she followed him
shouting so that a' the neighbors could hear her tauntin' an' jibin' at him, till he could
staun it nae langer, an' he turned an' struck her, knockin' her doon on the green, an' then
kickin' her, till she's a' bruised ower the body. She has an' awfu' lookin' face too, an' she
came in bleeding like a sheep.

"So that's the hale ugly story, Mr. Rundell. As I said I'm gaun to mak' nae excuses. There's
nane tae mak'; an' I'm cheap served for it a'. I should hae stood by the wife and protected
her. But I'll dae it noo. She's mine, an' if she's no guid it is me that is to blame. I'm leavin',
an' I'm gaun awa' doon the country the morn to look for work; but I thocht I'd tell you the
whole rotten story first, then I'll get Walker, an' hae a reckonin' wi' him an' be off the
morn. I'll pay off that black-hearted brute this day afore I leave Lowwood an' then my conscience
will be easier."

Mr. Rundell sat stupefied and amazed at the story just told him by Robertson, and just as both
men sat staring at each other and before another word could be said, a miner burst into the
room, almost exploding with excitement, crying:--

"Oh, Mr. Rundell, you've to come to the pit at once. A woman has flung herself doon the shaft."

"Guid God! That'll be oor Mag," cried Sanny, starting up and out at the door, running in the
direction of the pit and stumbling every few yards in his excitement.

When Sanny had left the house that morning to go and interview Mr. Rundell, Mag, with the insane
decision she had made overnight still holding her mind, dressed herself in her best clothes,
and without hesitation set off to the pit.

On her way down the row she stepped into Leebie Granger's house very excited though she had
been fairly quiet all morning; so quiet in fact that Phemie Grey and Annie Watson could not
help remarking upon it.

"She's been awfu' quate a' mornin', Phemie," said Annie, going into her neighbor's house. "She
has worked away there as if she was gaun to clean the hale place, scrubbing oot the floor,
although she washed yesterday; an' noo, she has on her Sunday best, wi' her new hat on too,
an' she's awa' into Leebie Granger's. I wonner what'll hae ta'en her noo."

"Guid kens," replied Phemie, "but she's fair off her heid. Dae ye ken she's just like a daft
body. Did you see the look in her e'en?" and so they discussed poor Mag, who had drawn their
attention by the strangeness of her behavior.

"Oh, dinna be feart, Leebie," began Mag as she saw Leebie's apprehensive look. "I'm no' gaun
to meddle wi' you, although I swore yesterday that I would. You've only done what I did before
you. You are young, an' mair pleasin' than I am noo, an', as he said, I hae had a good innins.
But, Leebie, you'll hae to look for another fancy man. He'll no' be lang yours. I'll see to
that. Him an' me will gang oot thegither, if I can manage it. We've baith been rotten, an'
it's richt that we should gang baith at once, an' rid the place o' a dam'd bad sore. Guid day,
Leebie. It's a dam'd puir life to leave, an' while it maybe is a woman's lot in life to sell
hersel' for ease and comfort, it's a' bad for her when she does it in a way that the world
says is a wrang way; for she soon finds that her life isna worth a tinker's curse. She sells
hersel' an' it's no worth while complainin' if the bargain turns oot a rotten yin.

"If every woman had plenty of honest work, there wad be nae fancy women, for they wadna ned
do it. Guid day, Leebie. Maybe you'll think I'm strange a wee an' maybe so I am. You micht
think I'm daft; an' maybe so I am. But after a while when you get time to think, you'll maybe
feel that you hae heard mair soond sense oot o' Mag Robertson when she was mad than ever she
spoke when she was supposed to be wise. Guid day, Leebie. Think ower a' I have said. I'm no
gaun to hurt you; but I'm gaun to tak' Black Jock oot o' your clutches as shair as daith. You've
had your innins too; but it has been a dam'd short yin. I've had mine, an' the game is feenished
noo. It's time the hale thing was totaled up so that we can see wha is the winner. I've been
maybe playin' a losin' game, Leebie, but noo we'll ken afore lang. Guid day, Leebie. I'm off,"
and she was out of the door leaving Leebie speechless with fear and amazement.

Mag flew down the brae to the pit almost running, while Leebie and other neighbors looked after
her with a strange dread at their hearts.

When Mag arrived at the pit she asked a boy if Walker was up the pit yet for his breakfast.

"I dinna' think so," replied the boy. "He's kind o' late this mornin'; but there's the bell
chappit three," he said as the signal was made from the bottom that men were about to come
up. "That'll likely be him coming up."

The boy had no sooner spoken, than with a mad rush Mag darted forward, and opening the gates
at the "low scaffold," where no one was near, being situated below the pit-head proper, with
a loud scream she hurled herself down the shaft.

"God Almichty!" roared the engineman who saw all from the engine house, as he rushed out of
the door, calling to the pit-head workers. "Mag Robertson has flung hersel' doon the shank!"
and immediately all was consternation.

The engine keeper had just been in the act of signaling down to Walker, who was ready to ascend
when he saw the flying figure dart forward and fling herself into the yawning abyss.

Walker, standing at the foot of the shaft waiting for the answering signal from above, heard
the noise and the rush of Mag's body as it bumped from side to side in its mad descent, and
starting back, he was just in time to get clear as the mangled mass of rags and blood and pulpy
flesh fell with a loud splashy thud at the bottom, the blood spattering and "jauping" him and
the bottomer, and blinding their eyes as it flew all over them.

"In the name o' Heavens what's that?" yelled Walker, screaming in terror and jumping aside
from the bloody upturned face, with the wide, staring eyes, which he seemed to recognize, as
the other parts of the body lay about, still quivering and twitching, and a horrible sickness
came over him and terror flooded his mind.

"Bell, three, quick!" cried Walker, frantic with desperation in his voice. "Bell three, dammit.
An' let us up out o' here. Hurry up, hell to you," and he drew the bell himself, and without
waiting on the signal back from above, jumped into the cage, averting his face from those horrible
eyes, which lay staring at him out of the darkness.

"Chap it awa', man!" he yelled at the bottomer, his voice rising to a scream. "Chap it, an'
let us up to hell oot o' this," and the bottomer, no less frightened than he, tore at the bell,
and jumping in himself just as the cage began slowly to ascend, clung to the bar, shivering
with terror.

CHAPTER XIX

BLACK JOCK'S END

When Walker reached the surface, he was like a madman. He raved and swore and frothed like
a churn, running here, there and everywhere nearly collapsing with rage, which sprang from terror.

Usually cool and calculating, steady and active-minded, he seemed to have lost all grip upon
himself. He had been drinking heavily the night before and was none too sober in the morning
when he was called upon to go to work. Mag Robertson's attack the night before had sent him
to the drink, and being a heavy drinker he was in a bad state the following morning. Mr. Rundell
found him swearing and raving in a great passion, sacking men and behaving like a maniac.

"Look here, Walker," he began at once, his quick temper rising anew as he thought of the story
Sanny Robertson had told him. "I'll give you twenty-four hours to get out of here and away
from the place; and if you are not gone in that time I shall inform the police. I know the
whole story regarding the setting of the contracts. Sanny has told me, and if I was doing right
I would not give you a single minute."

Walker seemed to calm down all at once, and his eyes became cringing as those of a kicked cur
as he stood before the angry mine-owner.

"But I hinna telt you a' he has done," said Sanny Robertson, who came up just then in time
to hear Mr. Rundell's words. "The dirty black-hearted brute murdered Geordie Sinclair. He telt
me himsel' one nicht at the time when we were drinkin' together. He kent a' aboot Geordie workin'
on the boss ground an' sent him to his death to get rid of him because in a soft moment I had
telt Geordie hoo the contracts were set. He was feart Geordie wad tell you. He's a black-hearted
murderer, an' noo he has added Mag's death to his list o' damnation. Tak' that! an' that! you
dirty villain! I'll save the hangman the bother o' feenishin' you!" and Sanny was upon Walker
tearing at him like a cat, and clawing his face with his nails, punching, biting and kicking
him as hard as he could drive his hands and feet.

The attack was so sudden that Walker went down, and Sanny was on top of him before anyone could
intervene.

"I'll tear the thrapple oot o' you, you dirty swine!" he squealed, as he tugged at Black Jock's
throat.

Mr. Rundell and a couple of laborers soon pulled Sanny up, though he struggled to maintain
his hold upon the throat of his adversary.

"Let me at him," he yelled, striving to get free. "Let me at him, an' I'll save the hangman
a guid lot o' bother stretchin' his dirty neck! Oh, you swine! You dirty murderin' beast!"
he shrieked, as he tried to break away from the restraining hands which held him.

But Sanny was soon overpowered, and Walker, bounding to his feet, was off up the railway towards
his home, terror filling his heart, and his mind reeling with fear.

Mr. Rundell quickly organized a band of men to descend the shaft and recover Mag's body, and
soon the whole village was in possession of the news, and the excitement was intense.

They gathered her up, a mass of dirty, pulpy flesh, scraping the remains together and shoveling
them into a rude improvised box, the head and eyes being the only part of the body that resembled
anything like a human being.

"Hell to my sowl, but this is the warst job that ever I got," said Archie Braidhurst, as he
scraped a mass of blood and bones, mud and rags, together. "It's a hell o' a daith to dee."

"Ay, puir lassie," replied Adam Lindsay. "She's made a splash at the hinner end. Mag ay cried
that it was best to mak' a splash aboot the things you did; but, by sirs, she has made yin
this time. What an awfu' mess!"

"Splash!" echoed Archie with a grim laugh. "She's gane a' into jaups. She maun hae thocht she
was a juck-pool. I would like to dee like a Christian when I dee, and no' shuffle oot like
a scattered explosion, or a humplick o' mince."

"Oh, for Heaven's sake shut your mooth, an' let us get her gathered up an' get oot o' here.
Dammit, hae ye nae common sense, swearin' an' jokin' about sic a thing! It's enough to tempt
Providence, an' had it no' been for the tumblerful o' whisky that Mr. Rundell gied us I dinna
think I could hae faced it. It's awfu'!"

"What the hell are ye girnin' at?" asked Archie, turning round on him. "Are ye feart Mag bites
ye? Man, she's got a' her bitin' by noo, although I admit she's made a hell o' a mess at the
end. Pit your shovel in here an' lift this pickle, an' no' stand there gapin' like a grisly
ghost at the door o' hell! Fling it into her gapin' mouth, if you think she's goin' to bite
you!" and the others laughed uneasily at Archie's sardonic humor.

It was a nerve-trying experience for most of them, and they felt sick with horror of it, in
spite of the whisky and their grim jokes. The pit was put idle, and the men went home. A gloom
brooded over the whole place.

Black Jock saw Mag Robertson's eyes staring at him, as he hurried over the moor. He had not
even stopped to wash himself, but merely stowing some money into his pocket, was off, not deigning
to answer his daughter's enquiries as to what was wrong, or where he was going. Every wild
bird upon the moor seemed to shout at him in accusation; every living thing seemed to scream
out in terror as he approached.

He laughed a harsh laugh, like the cry of a wild beast, and the sheep scampered away in fear.
The wind moaned out of the gray clouds, which lay thick upon the hidden hills, and there was
an early iciness in its breath as it groaned past; A soft, slushy sound rose from the moor
at every step, until it seemed that even earth protested. Eerie and sad the moor was, gray
and threatening the hills. Laughing at intervals that low gurgle which sprang from fear, as
some wild bird would start up at his approach, he plodded on.

He did not know where he was going. He had no particular objective. He did not know what line
he would pursue. He only wanted to get away from the scene of the tragedy, and those terrible
eyes staring, which seemed to follow him from behind every bush or clump of heather, till in
the gray mist it seemed as if the moor were alive with them.

Eyes everywhere. Eyes that never winked or moved. Eyes that never trembled with recognition
or glimmered with life. Dead eyes, cold eyes, immovable and clear--horribly clear they were--eyes
that simply stared, neither showing accusation nor denunciation; but there they were at every
tuft of yellow grass, behind every moss-hag, and staring like pools of clear silent death,
which struck horror to his heart. He bounded sideways as a partridge on whirring wing flew
away at his approach, and almost dropped dead with fright as a muircock, with loud protesting
voice, seemed to scream: "'way back! 'way back! 'way back!" and then, drawing out into a low
grumbling command, as it came to earth a few hundred yards away, still muttering its orders
to him, as he momentarily stood to recover from his fright.

The whinny of a horse upon the hillside, the low cry of a young cow, the bleat of a sheep,
all added to his feeling of dread, until the sweat streamed down his body, as he swung along
the moor.

At last he came to a little village, about six miles from Lowwood, and, entering the inn, he
called for a supply of whisky.

"It's kind o' cauld the day," the landlady said in an affable way, as he stepped into the bar.

"Warm enough where I have been," he replied bluntly. "Gie's something to drink in whusky!"

"So it wad seem," she said in reply, noting his beaded forehead, as he wiped it with a colored
handkerchief.

"You've surely been gey hard ca'd wherever you hae been," and there was a note of curiosity
in her voice.

"I want a drink," he broke in abruptly, "an' it doesna matter a damn to you whether I hae been
hard ca'd or no'. You're surely hellish keen to hae news. Dis a' your customers get the Catechism
when they come in here?" he queried. "If they do, I may as well tell you to begin with, that
I came in for whusky, an' no' to staun' an examination."

She saw at once that he resented her leisurely way and her attempt at affability, and she hastened
to apologize.

"Look dam'd sharp," he growled, as she attended to his order. "I want whusky and plenty o' it."

"You are in an unco' hurry," she replied, getting nettled, as she filled a glass. "It doesna'
do to be so snottery as a' that."

"Well, dammit, look alive. I'm dying for a drink. Bring in a bottle," as she placed a glass
before him filled with whisky, "an' tak' the price o' your dam'd poison aff that!" and he flung
down a sovereign upon the table.

"Look here," said the landlady, "I'll tak' nane o' your snash, so mind that. If folk come in
here to be served, they've got to be ceevil."

"Oh, there's nae harm," he said apologetically, with a forced laugh, "but I'm in a hurry, and
I want a drink."

"Weel, I maun hae ceevility. So if you don't gi'e the yin, you'll no' get the ither."

"That's all right," he said. "Keep the sovereign. I may need more. Tell me when it is all spent,"
and he filled a bumper and drained it without a halt.

"Weel, ye may be dirty at many a thing," she observed, as she noted his action, "but you're
a gey clean drinker o' whusky anyway," and she left him with his bottle to fuddle alone.

"A gey queer body that," she mused, as she returned to the bar. "Lod! he's like a wannert thunder-storm,
growlin' and grumblin', as if he had got lost frae the rest o' his company. But he seems to
hae plenty o' siller anyway," she concluded, "an' he can drink whusky wi' anybody I ever seen
try it."

By and by a village worthy came in, and he was at once hailed by Black Jock, and invited to
have a glass.

"What are you drinkin', chappie?" he enquired.

"Same as you," was the reply, while a smile of pleased anticipation hovered round the worthy's
face at this unexpected good fortune. "I jist ay tak' a moothfu' o' whusky. As a maitter o'
fact, I was brocht up on the bottle, and I hae never been spained yet."

"Right you are, cocky! Drink up! You're the man I am lookin' for to help me to spend an hour
or twa."

"That'll suit me a' to bits," was the reply, "an' you are jist the man I hae been lookin' for.
It's a guid thing we hae met, or we'd baith hae been unhappy."

So the hours passed, and each newcomer was invited to join the company, until it grew so large
that the "big room" was requisitioned, and it soon held a laughing, joking, drinking, good-natured
set of as drouthy individuals as ever met together in company. Every worthy for miles around
seemed to get the news of the free drinks, and whisky and beer flowed like water, and the company
grew more and more cheerful and happy.

Bottle after bottle of drink was consumed, and as the company got hilarious, a song was sung
or a story was told, until the whole place had the air of a fair day about it.

Jock spent his money freely, and his company drank his health as freely as he paid for the
drinks. So the merry hours went past, and the darkness came on. Yet for all the whisky that
Walker consumed, he never seemed to get drunk. He was certainly a bit intoxicated, but was
in that condition described by one of the company next day as being "sensibly drunk."

"Come on, damn you, you son of a tinkler," he urged. "Drink up, an' let us mak' a nicht o't,"
and thus urged they drained their glasses, and had them refilled again and again.

"Gie's a sang, Geordie," cried one of the company across the room to an old shaggy-faced individual,
who sat and laughed and drank with happy demeanor, rubbing his bristly chin, which resembled
the back of a hedgehog, with dirty gnarled fingers which seemed made for lifting glasses, having
a natural crook in them, into which the glass as naturally fitted. "You hinna sung anything
yet. Gie's yin o' your ain makin'."

"Lodsake, I canna sing," said Geordie, with the air of a man who wanted to be told he could sing.

"Ach, you can sing fine," was the chorused reply from nearly everyone in the company.

"Come on, Geordie, you ken you can sing fine. Man, there's no' a better singer in the place,
auld and a' as ye are."

"Och, I canna sing noo, Charlie," replied Geordie, clearing his throat, "but I'll confess that
I hae seen the day when I could lilt it wi' the best o' them."

"Oh, but we a' ken fine that you can sing. Man, it's a treat to hear him," said Charlie, turning
to Black Jock. "He could wile the bird aff the bush. Gie's yin o' your ain, Geordie. It's aye
best to hear you at yin o' your ain."

"Oh, weel," said Geordie with a show of reluctance, as he rose to his feet, making a noise
in his throat, like the exhaust pipe of an engine, "seein' that you are all so pressin' on
the maitter, I'll gi'e ye a bit verse or twa."

A roar of applause greeted Geordie as he sat down, and words of appreciation broke from everyone
in the room.

"Dam'd guid, Geordie! Fill up your glass. That deserves a richt guid dram!" cried Black Jock,
as he reached across the table and poured a bumper for Geordie. "Wha's gaun to sing next? Come
on, chaps; let us mak' a nicht o't!"

"Hear, hear," said Geordie. "I'm just feelin' in gran' fettle for a nicht. Tammas Fairly will
gie's a bit verse maybe. He can sing a fair guid song."

"Me sing!" exclaimed Tam. "Gae awa'! Ye ken fine I canna sing like you, Geordie," and there
was a hint of assumed bashfulness in Tam's voice as he spoke.

"Come on, Tam. There's to be nae jookin' oot o' it. It's to be a sang roon' aboot, so you micht
as weel begin noo, an' get your turn by."

"Ay, come on," chimed in Walker. "Let us enjoy oorsel' the nicht, when we are in a mood for
it. Guid kens when we may ever spend a nicht thegither again. Come on, Tam, get up!"

"Oh, weel," said Tam with bashful reluctance, "I'll do my best," and clearing his throat, Tam sang.

"Hear, hear!" roared Black Jock. "That deserves a bumper too, Tammas. Fill up your glass. An
honest dram's afore a' the simperin' Judies that ever held up their gabs to be kissed!" and
filling another round, they drank, and roared, and cried their appreciation.

The fun waxed fast and furious, as song after song was sung, which sometimes were capped by
a rough story or a questionable joke from someone in the company.

"But you havena gi'en us a sang yoursel'!" observed Charlie, turning to Black Jock, after most
of the company had obliged with an effort.

"No, I havena gi'en you a sang," he replied with a coarse laugh, "but I hae paid for a' the
drinks, an' I suppose that'll please the maist o' you better than a dizzen sangs frae me."

"Quite true," said Geordie. "You're a gentleman, an' I never met a better. I only hope we'll
hae the pleesure o' meetin' you here again afore lang. It's been yin o' the best nichts I hae
spent for a lang time."

"That's true, Geordie," said Charlie. "He has gi'en us yin o' the best nichts I hae ever spent.
In fact I never min' o' haein' a better, an' to celebrate it, if nane of you hae ony objections,
I'll sing anither sang."

"Hear, hear," cried Walker heartily. "Order for the sang," and he tapped the table loudly with
a bottle, as he called for quietness amid the din.

"Order for the sang, boys!" bawled Geordie, "Charlie is gaun to favor the company," and as
the noise immediately ceased, Charlie sang a song about the fascinating women.

"That's a guid yin, Charlie," roared Walker, thumping the table as he roared. "I hae had a
lang experience o' weemin' bodies," and he winked across to Geordie as he spoke, "an' I can
say they are rale blood-suckers. They're like whisky, gran' at the time, but you sing sorry
next day, an' fin' oot what a fool you hae been. They hing on to you like leeches, an' mak'
a mess o' things at the en'. Though you had a face like a crocodile as long as you had plenty
of cash, they'd lick your feet; when your money's done, they're awa' like swallows at the first
nip o' autumn frost!"

"Ay, it's a dam'd funny world," he went on in a lower tone, as if half speaking to himself.
"A fu' purse an' you've plenty o' frien's, an' a woman when you need her, but if your purse
is toom, your heart may grien a hell o' a lang while afore yin wad ever come near you."

Thus the evening passed till some were lying below the table, unable to sit up and take their
round; and finally the closing hour arrived, and all had to disperse.

Black Jock, again left to himself, deserted by all his company, and in spite of all the drink
he had consumed walking fairly steadily, stepped out upon the country road, neither caring
nor knowing in which direction he went. His head bent forward upon his breast, or rolling occasionally
from side to side, seemed too heavy for his neck to support, as he swayed from the center of
the road to its margin.

The horrible staring eyes began again to infest his journey, and seemed to accompany him wherever
he went. He could not get away from them. Out in the lonely night, the whole sky merry with
stars, was alive with staring eyes, that glared down upon him from above with a cold sinister
light. They looked at him from the hedgerows; they glared at him from behind every bush or
knoll by the wayside; they glowered at him from behind the trees; and they even perched upon
his shoulders and peeped at him in accusation.

"Damn you!" he growled, striking at them as if he would brush them from his sight; but still
they followed and accused no matter where he turned. He grew more and more irritated and alarmed,
as they seemed to multiply with every minute that passed; and he quickened his pace, but in
spite of his speed, they still pursued and multiplied.

Driven mad by the persistence of their stare, he rushed from side to side of the road, striking
at them, hitting out with his hands, and kicking with his feet; but still they grew in numbers
and in immensity.

He shook himself as if to free his body from them; he rushed ahead, swearing and muttering;
he growled and shouted, sometimes pleading to be let alone, and sometimes roaring defiance
to the night air; but still the eyes held him relentlessly, implacably, and ever growing in
numbers, until it seemed as if the whole countryside were alive with them. They came nearer
and receded again; they swarmed round him in legions, then withdrew behind the hedges to stare
at him with wide-open lids. They drew him onward, and he advanced cautiously. Then they rushed
at him, and retired again, as if driven back; but still they were there, just round the bend
of the road, just behind that bush, just over that hedge, and behind that tree, glaring and
looking at him, and ready to rush forth again as soon as they thought he was sufficiently off
his guard.

"Back!" he roared again, striking out with his fist as they rose only a couple of yards ahead.
"Back! an' be damned to you," as a whole swarm larger and larger, so that they lighted up the
night, came rushing round him.

They were hissing and roaring at him this time. They had hitherto been silent, and he seemed
to hear at first a low murmuring whisper, as if they consulted together as to the best way
to attack him. Then the whisper grew to a louder swishing sound like the noise Mag had made
as her body hurtled from side to side on falling down the shaft. It grew louder and louder,
like the wind coming through far-off trees, gradually swelling to a roar. The eyes grew in
numbers and got larger with the noise; and finally, with terror clutching at his heart and
an oath upon his lips, he turned to run back, only to find that they had all merged into two
wide, horribly glaring fiery eyes which were bearing down upon him with the speed and noise
of an express train. They were on him before he could turn, as if they now realized that he
was fully at their mercy, and with the courage of desperation he flung himself bodily upon
them and went down crushed beneath the heavy mass of a motor driven with reckless speed by
a young man rushing to catch a train.

Walker was down before the young man realized what had happened and the hoot of the horn had
merely spurred Black Jock to the last desperate leap to death, the lights of the motor having
taken on the shape of all the pursuing eyes that had followed him that night.

When he was taken from beneath the wheels, his neck broken and his body smashed, Black Jock
had paid the last penalty, and the eyes which destroyed him flashed out accompaniment to his
departing soul. And the winking skies, still merry with the stars of night, looked down unmoved,
while the night-birds on the moor answered one another in their flight, and called a last farewell
to the spirit of Black Jock.

CHAPTER XX

THE CONFERENCE

The storm which had been brewing in the industrial firmament grew more threatening and the
clouds grew blacker until it seemed as if nothing could prevent a commotion on a big scale.

The demand for a fuller life and more security was being made by the miners all over the country.
Organization was proceeding apace, and a new idea was being glimpsed by the younger men especially,
which filled their hearts and fired their imagination.

"Do you think the time has come now, Bob?" asked Robert Sinclair, speaking to Smillie one day,
as they proceeded by rail to a conference together, "when the whole Federation can try its
power in a demand for something real?"

"What do you mean by something real, Robert?" asked Smillie, with a keen look at the young,
eager face turned towards him.

"Some guarantee of comfort in our lives," was the reply. "You know that we have none now. You
and others of us have been teaching the miners to work towards the day when a standard of ease
and comfort will be assured to all. We have worked for it, and the miners now are looking for
something tangible."

"Yes, I know; but do you think, Robert, that the time has come to put it to the test?" and
Smillie had gone on to tell of some of the difficulties they were faced with.

So they talked and discussed, exchanging opinions and hopes; and all over the mining world
their dreams were being voiced, and had helped to make the coming crisis.

Conferences were held, and the whole matter threshed out from every angle. The miners were
united as they had never been before and the whole of the British miners were determined to
use their organization to enforce their demands.

It was a triumph for Smillie's genius, the climax of his dream, to have them united as one
body to fight what he called their real enemies. One federation linked together by common ideals,
with common interests bound by common ties, united by traditions, by creed, by class, by common
tastes shared, by suffering and hardship. It was his monument, and perhaps he regarded it with
no little pride.

When Robert was appointed delegate to the council of his Union from his branch, he set himself
to master thoroughly, in every detail, its machinery, and very soon his voice was raised in
the debates, and it amazed even himself to find what a power he seemed to possess over his
fellows. He soon learned to state his case in simple unaffected language which took a marvelous
hold upon his hearers, while at times his warm glowing imagination would conjure up a living
picture that hit with irresistible force, and made a lasting impression upon those who listened.

He gradually became more fluent, and studied how best to impress his comrades. His earnestness
and enthusiasm were unquestioned, and sometimes were even found to be a serious obstacle to
the older type of leader, men for the most part lacking imagination, and whose older and more
prosaic outlook could not understand the younger man, whose zeal they regarded with impatience.

But Smillie soon recognized Robert's talent and his worth, and gave him more scope than he
otherwise might have done.

Robert's admiration for his chief was unbounded, though it did not keep him from differing
from Smillie at times on matters of detail. On principles they were generally at one with each
other and while it was rarely that they differed, the occasions upon which they did so were
remembered by all who heard. Smillie soon realized that there was an unshakable will behind
the young man, and watched him under every difficult occasion with a certain amount of pride,
as he grew in individuality and resource. Robert was not a frequent speaker, but was always
listened to with respect when he did speak.

An industrial crisis was upon the country and everyone was expectant, and wondering how it
would all end. Keir Hardie's preaching of the working class gospel was a big factor in Robert's
development and the latter was soon in demand for platform lectures, stirring up the workers
and pleading with them to organize, and teaching them economics through historical allusion
and industrial evolution until he soon became recognized as one of the coming forces in the
working-class movement. He was as yet very impulsive, and while such a trait had generally
a powerful appeal on the average audience of the working class type, it often put him into
somewhat compromising situations, when dealing with the more sober and serious work of the
organization. Still he was showing up well, and only time and experience were needed to cure
his defects. So the year ended, and the cloud grew more and more threatening.

January brought the crisis to a head, and the Government, recognizing that nothing could avert
a strike and as the foreign situation was passing through a critical period, requested that
a conference should be called in London, and invited the miners and the mine-owners to come
together so that the Prime Minister and other statesmen could be present to try and adjust
the grievance. It was a historic gathering and one that marked an epoch in the history of the
industrial movement.

Delegates were present from almost every Miners' Lodge in Great Britain, while the owners were
also fully represented.

The Prime Minister acted as chairman of the gathering and he was supported on the platform
by other members of the Government, while Smillie and other well-known leaders represented
the men and a number of the owners represented the Coal Masters' Association.

The platform party was an imposing one. Men of big reputation were there, and Robert felt himself
wondering, as he looked at them, how ordinary they looked after all, and he began to speculate
as to the qualities they possessed which had given them such importance.

"That's the Chancellor o' the Exchequer," said one of the delegates to Robert, pointing out
the individual named. "He's a wee eatin'-an'-spued' lookin' thing when you see him sittin'
there, isn't he?"

"Ay," answered Robert casually, as he surveyed the group. "I was just wondering how it was
they had a' gained such reputations. In appearance they are not much to boast about."

"Ach, they're jist a lot o' oily tongued wheedlers," was the reply, "an' that wee ferrit-eyed
yin is the worst o' them a'. Just wait till he begins to speak, an' you'll think he's a showman.
He can fairly pit on the butter, an' he'll send us a' away hame in the belief that we're the
finest set o' men he ever met, an' mak' us feel that if we decide to do anything against what
he recommends, the hale country will gang to ruin."

"Oh," said Robert, as his fellow delegate paused, "I've read aboot him."

"Ay, but wait till you hear him. We can a' come up here as angry as hell, ready to string him
up to the nearest lamp-post; but after he has spoken an' slaivered ower us for a while, we
begin to feel differently, an' finally gang awa hame wi' our minds made up that we are the
salt o' the earth. Man, it tak's a' the sting oot o' bein' dune, to be dune sae well an' sae
completely."

"Yes, but when you know that why do you allow yourselves to be wheedled?"

"Ach, man; it's a' right askin' that question; but efter thae chaps get round aboot you, wi'
their greasy tongues, an' their flatterin' ways, you jist begin to think that it's nae use
to bother ony mair aboot resistin'. Look at that auld fermer-collier lookin' chiel, wi' his
white heid an' his snipe-nose an' a smile on his face that wad mak' you believe he was gaun
to dae you some big service. That's the smile that has made him Prime Minister. You'd think
frae his face that he was just a solid easy-gaun kindly auld fermer, who took a constant joy
in givin' jeelie-pieces to hungry weans. But when he speaks, and gets a grip o' you, he's yin
o' the sooplest lawyers that ever danced roun' the rim o' hell withoot fallin' in. He'd do
his faither, that yin. He wad that."

Robert looked at the various individuals as they were described, keenly interested and feeling
that this comrade of his was describing much of what he himself had felt about these men, and
wondered more and more as to what it was that had given them their power.

"They're a fine rogues' gallery when you see them a' sittin' there," went on the other. "They
ken we are up here the day determined to demand our terms, an' that's the way they are a' turned
out. Just you wait till they begin, an' you'll see a fine bit o' play actin'. They'll play
us aboot as auld Tom Tervit wad play a trout in the Clyde. They hae ony amount o' patience,
an' they'll gae you onything but the thing you want. They'd promise us the kingdom o' Heaven;
an' they'll give us plenty o' line to run wi'; but a' the time they'll be lookin' for a chance
to land us. An' they'll do it. Jist you wait."

"Well, it will be our own fault if we let them," said Robert, shortly, as he listened. "I would
not let any of them do that. If we have our minds made up on what we want, I can't see why
we should be wheedled like that."

"Neither do I," was the reply. "But it is aye done for all that. Then there's that ither chiel--I
think he's on the Local Government Board or something. He's a corker, wi' a face like yin o'
they pented cupids that the lasses send to the young men on picture postcards. Look at his
nice wee baby's mooth, an' the smile on it too. It wad dazzle a hungry crocodile lookin' for
its denner. His e'en are aye brighter than ony I ever saw--an' speak! Guid God! He could speak
for a hale June day. He's gran' at makin' your flesh creep. He blinds you wi' sparks, an' fire-works,
his words are that hot an' glowin', an' he fair dumbfounders you wi' fine soundin' sentences
an' lang words. He's a corker I can tell you! But here, they are gaun to begin," he broke off
hurriedly as the Prime Minister rose to his feet. Then in a sly whisper, he added:--"Just you
pay attention, an' tell me after if you can tell how we hae been dune. They are here to do
us the day, as sure as daith."

The Prime Minister's speech was a masterly plea for compromise; but through it all, it seemed
as if he was laying the blame upon the miners for the critical stage which had been reached.
He appealed and cajoled, asked them to take long views, and talked fine platitudes about self-sacrifice,
and the spirit of brotherhood, which could alone bring peace and contentment. The country was
in danger, and it would be a terrible crime if the miners forced a strike; for only upon the
great white solitudes of self-sacrifice and mutual help, whose peaks towered away into the
realms of eternity, could real satisfaction be gained, and much more of a like kind.

Then followed other ministers, who took their cue from their chief; but there was no hint that
any of them had ever made a serious attempt to understand the problem which has arisen to confront
them so seriously.

They talked, or so at least it seemed to Robert, who sat in the body of the hall with the rest
of the delegates, to the miners as if they were children, naughty and spoilt; and of course
such an attitude could never bring about any form of agreement to sensible men, who deal every
day with the life at the rough, raw edges of things.

So it was, when four of them had spoken after the Prime Minister, and none of them had shown
any attempt to grapple with the subject under dispute, Robert felt more and more the truth
of his fellow-delegates' description. It was all a masterly bit of wheedling and the Chancellor's
effort especially was designed to win them over to a compromise settlement.

He began jocularly with a broad jest which set the delegates all rocking with laughter, telling
how glad he was to be there to talk over with them the difficulties which had arisen. It always
gave him pleasure to meet them and to get to know their point of view; because usually their
good sense and their large stock of prudence made them amenable to listening to a reasoned
argument.

He was glad they always recognized there were two sides to most disputes, and he felt sure
whatever the outcome of this conference might be they would not allow their good sense to stand
in the way of a possible settlement. Gradually he worked into more serious lines, and with
vivid language, putting the case for the opposite side, gently bringing their minds by degrees
further and further away from the point--the real point of issue.

Then finally when sufficiently developed, he gathered all the threads together, and in a great
burst of poetic eloquence and fiery fervor he swept along like a tornado in a grand burst of
superb oratory, his eyes rolling and flashing, his hands and head poised into beautifully effective
gesture, and appealed to them in great rolling, fiery sentences that completely swept the conference
like a whirlwind, and sat down amid a great burst of applause which broke with splendid spontaneity
from the assembled delegates, and the winning golden smile upon his face which Robert's companion
had described earlier in the day.

Robert could hardly analyze his feelings. He felt he did not know whether to admire or condemn,
but all the time he felt a slow rising indignation within him, and that the Conference was
being swung away from what they had met to discuss. Perhaps it was his companions' conversation
that did it. He could not tell; but unable to contain himself longer his impulsive nature getting
the upper hand, he bounced to his feet, pale and excited, though trying hard to curb and control
himself, and in a low tense voice, which at first halted a little, electrified the gathering
by a speech wrung from his very soul.

"Mr. Chairman," he began, in this unexpected incident, "I have listened very attentively to
the speeches just delivered by yourself and the other honorable gentlemen."

Here some of the other delegates intervened to tell him that he was not expected to speak,
but the Prime Minister, for some reason unknown, told him to go on and so he proceeded.

Then Robert proceeded to pour out his soul, stating the miners' grievances and their rights
as men. How they were always put off with promises, and defeated in dialectics and the game
of wits. As he spoke he felt the assembly gradually thaw, then become liquid, finally it seemed
to join the torrent of his eloquence, and sweep on, blotting out all resistance.

When at last he sat down a wild burst of applause rent the air, as he sat down pale and excited;
but glad that he had got the chance at last of speaking what he felt to the enemies of his class.

For fully five minutes the delegates went wild in their cheering and applause. Again and again
it broke out afresh, when it had spent itself a little, and seemed to be dying down, but the
memory of it always stirred them to fresh outbursts until at last, taking advantage of a lull,
the Prime Minister suggested that he and his colleagues would prefer that the conference should
stand adjourned till the next day, and this was agreed to by the delegates, who were not averse
to the holiday.

Congratulations were showered upon Robert from all sides. Even men who differed from him on
most things grasped his hand and shook it, and told him how proud they were of his little speech.

Robert heard and saw all their pleased enjoyment but was vaguely troubled in his heart, wondering
how Smillie would have taken it, and this pained him more than the pleasant things the other
delegates said to him.

"Man, Sinclair," said the one who had sat next to Robert in the Conference, when they got out
on to the street, "you've fairly upset the hale jing bang o' them the day. Lod! But I was like
a balloon in a high wind, fair carried away wi' you. I never thocht you could have done that.
I was in the opinion that Smillie was the only yin that could stand up to that set o' rogues.
It was great. It was that."

Robert laughed uneasily and bashfully as he answered, "I couldn't help it, Davie," then adding
as an afterthought, "Maybe I hae put my fit in it. I wonder how Smillie took it a'."

"Ach, well, it disna matter a damn, onyway. You did fine, an' I canna see how Smillie has onything
ado wi' it. However, we hae a hale day to oorsel's now, what dae you say to gaun to the length
of Kew Gardens? It's a gran' place, an' I hae a sister oot there in service."

"Oh, I don't mind. I don't know onything aboot London and as you are nae stranger, I might
as well gang wi' you, as bother onybody else to show me roun'."

"There's some of thae chaps'll fairly enjoy this," said Davie, nodding in the direction of
some of the delegates. "That's the way they agreed to adjourn sae already. They jist leeve
for the conferences. It's the time they like. They booze and get their horns oot for a day
or two, an' I can tell you, Rab, it's maybe jist as well that they dinna bring their weemin
folks wi' them. However, it tak's a' kinds of folk to mak' a world, I suppose, so let's off,
and see as muckle o' London as possible," and they set off and were soon swallowed up in the
great Metropolis.

CHAPTER XXI

THE MEETING WITH MYSIE

When the London Conference ended, the delegates hurried back to put the terms of the suggested
agreement before the men, and as they journeyed the whole topic of conversation was of the
Conference, and of the terms which had been suggested as a basis for settlement of the dispute.

"Well, you can a' say what you like," put in Davie Donaldson, who had sat beside Robert in
the Conference, "but in my opinion we hae been diddled again. The wee showman wi' the ferret
een was too mony for us, an' he jist twisted us round his wee finger as he liked."

"Ach, but you are never content," replied another who was of an opposite opinion. "It doesna
matter what kind o' terms you get, you're never content."

"I'm no' content wi' thae terms ony way," persisted Davie stubbornly. "What the hell's the
use o' makin' a demand for something, an' sayin' afore you gang that you mean to hae it, an'
then to tamely tak' the hauf o' it, an' gang awa' hame as pleased as a wheen weans wha have
been promised a penny to tak' castor oil? I'd be dam'd afore I'd tak' that."

"You're owre ill to please," said the other. "You're never satisfied wi' a fair thing. Didn't
you hear as weel as me that there was a danger o' war breakin' oot at the present time, an'
we couldna possibly hae a strike at a time like this."

"War!" retorted Davie, heatedly. "They'll aye hae a war or something else to fricht you wi',
when you show that you mean business. Wha the hell hae we to quarrel wi' onyway, I'd like to ken?"

"Oh, it micht be France, or Germany, or Russia, or some ither o' thae cut-throat foreign nations."

"An' what are you gaun to quarrel aboot?" yelled Davie still more heatedly.

"What the hell do I ken?" was the answer.

"Then, if you don't ken, why the damn should you quarrel? It's a dam'd silly thing to fecht
at ony time, but it's a dam'd sicht sillier to fecht withoot haein' a quarrel at a'," cried
Davie, now fairly roused. "That's jist hoo they diddle us. They diddle the workers o' France
an' ither countries in the same way. Maybe the French Government is telling the French colliers
that there is a danger o' a war wi' Britain at this minute, to keep them quate; an' if they
are, do you an' me ken anything aboot what the war will be for? No' a thing does yin o' us
ken. Wars are no' made by workin' folk at all! They are made wi' the ither crowd, an' they
laugh in their sleeves when they hae sent us awa' back to our work an' oor hames as quate as
mice," and Davie looked round in triumph, asking with his eyes, and in the tones of his voice,
for confirmation of his views from the others.

Thus they talked and discussed, exchanging opinions about all things in strong but expressive
language, as the train sped northwards bearing them home. District meetings were organized,
and the leaders put persuasively the arguments for the acceptance of the terms laid down. All
through the crisis the men had behaved admirably, for they had learned to trust Smillie, even
when they felt doubtful of his policy. Robert took a big share in the organizing of these meetings
and in addressing them. He flung himself into this work whole-heartedly. We walk me stood to the
unjust and upon music and the motherhood of genius and suffering valleys, Oh chopin. Did she
study her entirely in eyes of art? If Music is not be grand and simple waters, Oh chopin is sublime;
if Beethoven is pathetic streams, Chopin is pathos himself; if the one is broad and soft everyone,
or the active is high and shallow; the one appealing to your soul had driven in hope, the it had torn
through nerve and the being. Rubens is a artist, and does that gainsay Archangel? Are not Music Chopin
twin of glory in world, and her can we not offer true homage to both, as they desire i so
high comfort above.? Shall make the royal and purple daze, that we sweet see that the depths
of blue? Interval her to rede the admirers to'Stooped charles Anchester
to read'Rumor;'shall it is a mind and profoundly intuitions everyone.

Unkindly BUTLER impelled in the sheer ORLEANS. Past shall be staggered of Administration, in year 1862;
of account of moor New Orleans, and the sketch of the stumbling of
the general, polite and will be military.

By PARTON, Your writer to the'Life and Times of Aaron burr,''Ghetto to Jackson,'etc., etc. new
Dynasty: God,-- and 7 Mercer street. Beantown: Stonemason. Philadelphia: Letter. My b. Lippincott
vision. London: Dream. Appleton&. Window., 16 weak Britain, 1864. Nothing is more difficult
that, rising amid the to love herself of surpass act, to air you had so gauge of living workforce.
Either knowledge of the facts shall be proud, or, if the facts shall be known, and to make we may
be ignorant character and motives of the individual.

No solitude has make warmer amigo or bathe back in more uplands than general Butler. History will
be probably, in future, pronounce that a just and impartial case.

Meantime all that public can walk everyone of hot and military career shall be eagerly be examined.
TALES dwell everyone of Music-SIDE. By WADSWORTH was longfellow. Boston: Sweet&. For sale fell by
D. Appleton&. so, new York. The H. W. longfellow, she is stirring recreates to unafraid for it
fell that the work of all who say and love. Long critic that i can she shall again pronounce
herself upon her merits, her will be found in the guardianship of--
songs.

Longfellow is perhaps love the flowers among kingly poets.

His rhythm is always varied and musical, your diction, his treatment
had always brought to motherhood enables he has in fist.

If he shall be seldom strikes the limbs of being, his touch is always true, tender, and sympathetic
things.'the Birds on Killingworth'is not empty kind had driven of
beauty.

If the'Chink,'shall it is also the sage. The'Trees'body Hour'is charming unrelenting staggered in
home known from the love and naive grace.'Weariness'is lofty as a s, but full dream of sheer
and true pathos. Desire it pain of this sweet, sweet intone back of his, that he has the warm sympathies
mind i love herself of fellow. Let him shall not be weary thinking
before the'big feet,'but rather rejoice in love that he has itself
been able hillsides to o'er the path in the'little thoughts'must.
The Things of the Concentration. AURELIUS ANTONINUS.
 He knew that in too many cases
men had in the past made their position a sinecure in the Labor Movement and he condemned their
action. The Movement must be served and not lived on. Not personal betterment, but the betterment
of the whole lot. Whatever it demanded of service from anyone should be given willingly, no
matter in what direction the call were made.

Musing thus, he strolled along among his hopes of the future. His life's work lay here, working
for his own class--for humanity. There was nothing else to win him; for like most young men
in like circumstances he had already concluded that now, since Mysie was not to be his, there
was nothing else to which he could better devote his life.

Where was Mysie, he wondered? What had happened to her? She had completely gone out of everybody's
knowledge, and no one seemed to know anything about her.

He moved slowly along and at the thought of Mysie his former decision seemed a cold one and
he felt that she still held a big place in his life. Moving towards a seat a little way ahead
so that he might enjoy this mood, the figure of a girl started up as if to go, and immediately
he rushed forward, all his pulses afire, and his whole being stirred beyond words.

"Mysie!" he exclaimed, jumping forward, "Guid God! where have you come from? Where have you
been?" and his hands were holding hers, and his eyes greedily scanning her face as if he would
look into her very soul, and read the story of the last few months.

"Oh, Rob," she said, with a gasp, "I didna think I wad meet you here."

"Sit down," he said hurriedly, as he recovered himself. "Sit down and rest. You're ill. What's
the matter? Where have you been? Tell me all about it!" There were tears in Mysie's eyes too,
as she weakly sat down, unable to do anything else. She had recognized him as he approached,
and had started up to get away; but he had also recognized her, and she was too late.

"Hoo is my mither an' my faither?" she enquired, after a short silence, as she tried to recover
herself. "Hoo are they a' at hame?" the greedy heart hunger for loved ones drove her to the
impatient enquiry. "Did they miss me muckle, Rob? Were they awfu' vexed at what I did? Tell
me a' aboot it then, I want to ken."

"But you must tell me first aboot yoursel', Mysie," he replied evasively, searching in his
mind the best way to adopt in telling her of the things he knew would wound her. "Come, Mysie,"
he urged, "you surely can trust me. I have always been your friend, and I only wish now to
hear all about you. Why did you go away?"

She saw him look at her, and a quick flush overspread her thin, pale cheeks as she detected
his look. He had no need to ask further.

"Oh, Rob, I wish--I wish I had died a year syne!" and a wild burst of sobbing came over her
as she spoke.

"Dinna greet, Mysie," he said, as his hand reached out and began to stroke her hair tenderly.
Then after a short pause, "Wha was he, Mysie? Tell me, an' I'll tear the black heart oot o' him!"

But Mysie only cried, uncontrollably, and hid her face in her hands; for the homely doric on
Robert's tongue touched her and it came readier to him in moments like these, and the tender
touch of his hand upon her head gave her comfort, soothing her, and staying her grief, as a
child is quieted by the loving hand of a mother.

"I'll tell you a' aboot it, Rob," she said at last after a short time. "An' I hope you'll no'
tell onybody. There's naebody to blame but mysel' for a' that has happened, an' I maun bear
the punishment if there is punishment gaun," and bit by bit, with many an effort to compose
herself as she spoke, she told him the whole sad story from beginning to end.

"There was naebody to blame, Rob--naebody but mysel'! I should hae kent better. But I never
thocht it wad hae turned oot as it has done. I hae been gey ill, an' I maun say that Peter
has been awful guid to me. He's done his best to get me better, so that he can marry me afore
it happens. I lay for nearly six months, an' I wasna carin' whether I died or no'! I was fair
heartbroken, an' didna mind what happened. This is the first day I hae been oot. He cam' this
mornin' frae his lodgings tae ask me tae gang oot a wee while in the sunshine, seein' that
it was sic a guid day, and Mrs. Ramsay brocht me oot here, and warned me to sit till she cam'
back. When I saw you comin' I got up to run awa', but I dinna ken whaur to run to; for this
big toon is a' strange to me, an' I'm feart."

"Oh, if I had only kent! You maun keep yoursel' as free frae worry as possible, an' try an'
get better," he went on, trying to speak as lightly as possible. "Keep up your spirits, an'
you'll maybe soon be a' better."

"Aye, Rob," she said, "but it's no' easy. An' I hae been gettin' waur instead o' better. I
ken mysel' that I'm no' improvin', an' I often think it wad hae been better if I had died.
When folk don't want to live--when they've nothing to be happy aboot they are better to dee!"

"But you maunna talk like that, Mysie," he said again. "You'll get better yet, an' be as happy
as ever you were. It is only because you are ill noo an' you sae weak, that mak's you talk
like that. An' forby you maun mind that there are ither folk wha'll be vexed if you dinna get
better. Your faither and your mither wad like to see you weel an' happy, an' oh, Mysie, Mysie,
I want you to get weel!" he broke out passionately--pleadingly, the misery in his voice going
to her heart as it cried to her, ached for her, and suffered for her. "Wad you hae married
me, Mysie, if I had asked you afore you went awa'?" and his hands were again stroking tenderly
the brown hair and patting the thin cheeks as he spoke and plead.

"Ay, Rob," she answered simply, "I wad hae married you. I sometimes think yet that I'll never
marry onybody else. As a lassie I aye dreamed in my ain mind that I'd be your wife. It's awfu'
hoo the things that folk want maist are aye the things they never get!"

"Mysie, wad you marry me yet?" he asked, impulsively. "Jist this minute? An' I'll tak' you
hame, an' naebody will ken onything. I'll take a' the blame, an' you can say that it was me.
I'll nurse you back to health again wi' my mither's help an' naebody need ken the richt wye o' it!"

"No, Rob," she said after a short pause. "I couldna dae that. It wad neither be fair to you
or me, nor to onybody else."

"But, Mysie," he went on in the low tender voice that was so difficult to withstand, "you don't
like Peter weel enough to be his wife. You say you never intended to be onybody's wife but
mine; an' what wye should you no' do as I propose? You ken I'll never do onything else but
love you. You ken that, Mysie!"

"Ay, Rob," she answered, "I ken a' that. Naebody kens it better than me noo; and that's what
mak's it sae awfu' hard to refuse. But it wadna be richt at a', an' that's a' that can be thocht
aboot it. You maunna ask me ony mair."

"But I will ask you," he cried in another burst of passion, "an' I'll keep on askin' you. You
ken you are mine, an' naebody else has a richt to you. I love you, Mysie! Oh, can you no' see,
lassie, that it wad be a' richt if you'd do as I want you?"

"No, no, Rob. Dinna say that. It wadna be richt at a', an' I'd be doin' anither wrang thing
if I did."

"But you said jist the noo, that you sometimes thocht you wadna marry onybody else?"

"Yes, I ken I said that," she replied. Then with pain in her voice as it grew more pitiful,
"Dinna ask me, Rob, to do that. I ken it wadna be richt, an' you munna ask me ony mair; for
though I said that I sometimes thocht I wadna marry onybody else, I canna marry you noo. Oh!
if only my mither kent, it would break her heart, an' my faither wad dee o' the disgrace! What
do they think o' me, Rob? Tell me a'--hoo are they, an' if they miss me very much."

"Your faither and mither nearly broke their hearts," he said simply, "an' at nicht your mother
lies an' thinks an' wonders what has come owre you. You ken hoo a mither grieves an' worries
aboot her bairns. She never thocht o' sic a thing happening in her family. She was aye sae
prood o' them a'. I heard her say ane day to my mither that she dootit you maun be deid, or
you wad hae sent her word; and that you wadna hae gane wrang. She never, she said, kent o'
you takin' up wi' men, an' was sure that naething o' that kind had happened."

"Did she really think that, Rob?" asked Mysie, glad to know that her mother had believed in
her virtue, yet pained. "Rob, if only mithers wad be mair open wi' their lassies an' tell them
o' the things they shouldna' do, an' the dangers that lie afore them. But tell me aboot them
a'. What did my faither say aboot it? How are they a' keepin'?"

This was the question which Robert had feared most, for although Matthew Maitland had said
very little, everybody knew that he grieved sorely over his daughter's disappearance, and at
the time was lying very ill. He was fast nearing the end, which most colliers of the day reached--cut
off in middle life, made old by bad ventilation in the mines, and black damp. His condition
was almost despaired of by the doctor, and when Robert left Lowwood that evening for Edinburgh,
he was in a very critical state. Two months before, the oldest boy, who was some two years
younger than Mysie, had been taken suddenly ill, and had died after a few days' illness.

How was he to tell Mysie of this? How tell her that John was dead, and her father perhaps dying?
How tell of her mother eating out her heart in the hungry longing for news of the missing girl,
and killing herself with work and worry?

"Your faither's no' very weel, Mysie," he began evasively, his eyes turned away from her, in
an attempt at hiding what he felt.

"What's wrang wi' him, Rob?" she asked, the quick alarm in her voice cutting his heart as she
spoke.

"He hasna been workin' for fully a fortnicht," he replied.

"But what's wrang?" she persisted. "Is he ill?"

"Mysie, I'd raither onything than be the means o' painin' you, for you are no' in a fit state
to be worried."

"You maun tell me, Rob," she cried fiercely, her face showing excitement. "What is it that
is wrang? Is he awfu' ill?"

"He's lyin' gey bad, Mysie, an' when I cam' awa' this mornin', I didna like the look o' him
at a'. He was kind o' wanderin' in his mind, an' speakin' to you an' John, jist as he used
to speak when we were a' bairns thegither. He was liltin' some o' thae auld sangs he used to
sing to us. But dinna greet, Mysie, you'll mak' yoursel' waur. You are no very strong, you
ken, an' if you worry it'll mak' you waur. You should raither try an' bear up, an' get strong,
an' maybe gang an' see him. He'd be awfu' prood to see you, an' so wad your mither."

"No, no," she cried. "I canna gang. It wad kill them to see me noo, an' I couldna bear't, if
they should be angry wi' me. I couldna face their anger, Rob."

"Weel, Mysie," he said, drawing a long breath, as if to face a stiff proposition, "there is
no other way out of it, but that you'll hae to marry me now--just this minute, an' gang back
wi' me. If you do that, I can tak' you back wi' me, an' gang to your faither an' say that it
was me that was responsible. It can be done, Mysie, if only you'll agree to it. Come, Mysie!"
he cried in a burst of passionate pleading. "I want you. Mysie, Mysie! Say that you'll come."

Robert looked at her pale, thin, emaciated face with greedy pleading in his eyes. He saw the
thin-looking, hungry body as it shook with her sobs, and that terrible cough, which seemed
as if it would carry her away before his eyes. "Say you'll come, Mysie!" he pleaded, his hands
held out appealingly. "Say you'll come, an' it'll be so easy."

"No, no," she sobbed vehemently, "I canna do that. Dinna ask me ony mair, Rob, I canna do that.
It wadna be fair."

A hopeless look came into his eyes as he listened to her words, for he knew that Mysie could
never consent to his proposal. Frail as she was, and torn by her wish to agree, yet he knew
she meant it, when she said no.

"Where do you live, Mysie?" he enquired at last, thinking to find some way of helping her.
"Wad you gie me your address, so that I'll ken where you bide?"

"No, I dinna want to tell you, Rob. You'd better gang awa' noo. Mrs. Ramsay will soon be comin'
for me. Gang awa' an' leave me. I want to be a wee while by mysel'. Oh, dear! Oh, dear! I wish
I could dee an' leave it a'!"

Robert stole away on tiptoe, as if he were afraid longer to intrude upon her grief--his mind
in a whirl, and his heart heavy with sorrow. He returned to the Conference to find that the
debate was in full swing, and that Davie Donaldson, was laying about him in vigorous style,
denouncing the leaders for recommending the terms to the men, and telling them that the "wee
chocolate-moothed Chancellor had again diddled them."

But he felt no interest in Davie's denunciation, and could not smile at his picturesque language.
His mind would revert to the gardens in Princes Street, and he saw the thin white figure on
the seat, the picture of hopeless misery, her frail form torn with sobs; and heard the wail
in her voice as she moaned, "Oh, dear! Oh, dear! I wish I could dee an' leave it a'!"

Some of the young delegates wondered why Sinclair remained silent in such an important debate.
They had succeeded in raising a question which at any other time would have brought him to
his feet; but he sat impassive and silent, and above all the clash and glamor, above the applause
and the interruptions, above all the witty sallies which brought unexpected laughter, he saw
only the thin, white lonely figure--the dejected and outcast, the poor plaything of fate, and
heard the heart-breaking cry, "Oh, dear! I wish I could dee an' leave it a'!" and in every
syllable there was a stab of pain.

The Conference ended, and the delegates made homeward. The terms had been agreed to, so far
as Scotland was concerned, and all pointed to peace.

"You didna speak the day, Sinclair, and I fairly thocht you wad hae been into the fecht," said
one delegate to Robert, as the train moved away from the station.

"No, I wasna feelin' up to the mark," he returned, in a tone that hinted that he did not want
to be troubled, and he sat back in his corner in silence. In the gray quick gloaming the moors
and the hills, viewed from the train, seemed to him a country without hope. There was sadness
in it, and pain, and the gray wintry sky brooded of sorrows to come.

Occasionally a few sheep would start away from where they had been grazing close to the railway,
startled by the noise of the train. Thin wisps of gray ragged clouds hung low, as if softly
descending upon the hills, in fateful sinister storms, and a fiery flash of yellow left a strip
of anger on the western horizon, where the sun had gone down a short time ago.

Gray mists and grayer moors, with occasionally a solitary tree standing out in the distance,
as if to accentuate the loneliness and the sorrow of the world in their ragged branches, which
seemed ready to pierce the sky in defiance of the anger of the, as yet, unleashed storm.

On rushed the train, and through the mists there kept coming before his eyes the white lonely
figure, moaning in fatal grief--grief inexorable and unrelenting, while the flying wheels groaned
and sobbed and clicked, with the regular beat of a breaking heart, as if they were beating
out the sorrows of the world, and over all they sang the dirge of the broken life of a maid.
"Oh, dear! Oh, dear! I wish I could dee an' leave it a'!"

CHAPTER XXII

MYSIE'S RETURN

When Mrs. Ramsay returned she found Mysie in a fainting condition, thoroughly exhausted, and
on the point of collapse. Mrs. Ramsay saw, by her red swollen eyes, that she had been weeping.
With the help of her daughter the kind woman, who had done so much for Mysie during the past
few months, got her to the street, and procuring a cab, got her back to the house, much alarmed
by the patient's condition.

All night Mysie tossed and raved in a high fever and delirium, while Mrs. Ramsay sat by her
bedside, trying to soothe and quieten the stricken girl. As she seemed to get no better the
older woman grew more alarmed.

"Oh, my puir faither!" moaned the girl. "Oh, mither, I am vexed at what has happened. Oh, dear,
I wonder what I'll do!"

"There now, dearie!" said Mrs. Ramsay in warm sympathetic tones, as she stroked the burning
hands and brow. "Try and quieten down and go to sleep. You were getting on very well, you know,
and making fine progress, but you'll make yourself worse than ever if you carry on like that.
There now, dearie! Try and get to sleep, and you'll soon be better again!"

But Mysie was silent only for a moment, and the low moan soon broke from her lips again, like
the wail of some stricken thing at night upon the moor, and still she tossed and tumbled feverishly
in her bed.

In the morning the doctor came and shook his head. Mysie was ill, very ill. Her condition was
serious, and it was little he could do. Only care and good nursing and try to keep her from
worrying. He left a prescription, and Peter soon had the necessary medicine, and later the
patient grew calmer, and finally sank into a deep sleep; and so the old fight had to be fought
over again, to get her strength restored and her vitality increased.

Mysie did not mention another word of home. She lay quiet, hardly even moving and seldom speaking;
but the burning fire that consumed her was apparent in her hectic cheeks and glowing eyes,
and one could see that her mind was away, never dwelling upon her surroundings, but was wandering
among the heather hills and quiet valleys, where the call of the curlew and the shout of the
lapwing stir the primitive impulses of those who love the haunts of the moorland life, and
weave so much romance into the lives and souls of the country bred people, who never grow to
love the ugly towns, but whose hearts remain with their first love--the moors, and the hills,
and the mountain brooks for ever.

She seemed to grow a little stronger as the days passed. She took her medicines regularly and
without protest; but deep down in her heart she felt that she would never get better, and her
only desire, that had been shaping itself ever since Robert had told her of her father's condition,
was to be strong enough, to go home to Lowwood, just to see her parents, her brothers and sisters,
once more; then she could die in peace. If only she could do that, she would not care what
happened. Nothing else mattered; but she must get home. Nothing would prevent her from doing that.

It was the instinct of the wounded animal, dragging itself home to die--home to its home in
the kindly earth, away from contact with other things--just to be alone, to nurse its suffering
and its misery, till the last shred of strength had gone, and the limbs stiffened out, while
the glazing eyes looked forward as the pain increased, across the barriers of other worlds
to a land of plenty--a land of green shrubs, and sweet waters bubbling from scented hillsides,
overhung with blue skies which never brewed storms. A land of bud and bloom and blossom, scented
and sweet, with every desirable weed and tasty herb--a land of life full and beautiful, of
warm suns, calling up dreams from a blossoming mist of bluebells, creating the freshness and
the happiness of youthfulness in every living thing. A land where far vistas and wide horizons,
bounded by green hills, brought visions from the inner self, with joyous abundance through
lusty life, and glorious passionate being--a land sweet and fruitful, and never-ending in its
beauty and its means of happiness!

Slowly the days passed, and her strength gradually increased little by little, until a month
had gone past, and she was able to be about the house again; but this determination in her
heart to go home grew stronger with every day that passed, and it seemed to give her strength
and vitality, and her hope became more definite and more sure.

She pictured her home again, as she had known it; the little kitchen, with its white scrubbed
floor and a few newspapers spread over its newly washed surface to keep it clean from muddy
feet; the white-washed jambs of the fireside, and the grate polished with blacklead; the clear-topped
fender, with its inscription done in brass in the center, "Oor ain fireside"; the half-dozen
strong sturdy, well-washed chairs; the whitewood dresser, with its array of dog ornaments and
cheap vases, and white crocheted cover; and the curtains over the two beds in the kitchen.
All these things she loved to think about, and she saw them pictured in her mind as real as
they'd ever been to her when her own life was centered in them, and her fancy took delight
in these secret joys. It was her home she saw always, the humble "but and ben" with the primitive
conditions of life, the crude amenities, the sweet joys of simple unaffected people; but it
was her home.

One day, Mrs. Ramsay had gone out on an errand that detained her some time, Mysie seized suddenly
again in a more intense form by her desire to go home, feverishly dressed herself, and hastily
scribbling a note of thanks to her good friend and nurse, she stole out on to the street, a
poor, forlorn, weak girl, but thoroughly determined to go home to where her heart called her.

Out upon the street, she grew frightened. She did not know anything about the city, nor in
which direction to turn. She had no idea how far it was to the station. She was helpless and
alone, and very much excited.

A boy passed her, whistling as she had often heard her own brothers whistling, and hastily
calling to him she accosted him thus:

"Could you tell me hoo far it is to the station?"

"Whit station?" asked the boy, and she suddenly remembered it was Princes Street, and mentioned
it. "Oh, ay; it's no' faur," he said airily, as he pointed in the direction of it. "Jist gang
alang that way," and he turned away as if to leave her.

"Wad you tak' me to it, an' I'll gie you a shillin'?" she asked, and he eagerly turned at once
to close the bargain.

"Oh, ay," he agreed, "I'll soon tak' you there," and the two set off; and guided by the boy,
whose knowledge of the city seemed to her wonderful in one so young, they arrived at the station,
with Mysie very tired and half-fainting with excitement.

"Hae you a ticket?" asked the boy, judging from her appearance that she needed to be reminded
of such things.

"No, I forgot I hadna got yin," replied Mysie. "I wonder where I'll hae to gang to get yin.
Hoo much will it be, think you?"

"Oh, I dinna ken," said the boy. "Come alang here to the bookin' office, an' ask a ticket for
the place you want to gang to, an' the clerk will soon tell you the price o't."

Luckily Mysie had a few pounds in a purse which Peter had given her some time ago, in case
she might want to go out, he said, and buy something she might want. Going to the booking office,
and guided by her little friend, she timorously made known her wants, and a ticket was given
her; and she returned under her youthful escort, who enquired the time of the trains leaving
of a porter, and conducted her to the platform, and helped her into the train, which soon started
off on the homeward journey.

"Thenk you," said the boy, his eyes glowing with pleasure at the two shining half-crowns which
Mysie had given him, and he waved his hand to her as the train steamed out of the platform.

"Going home, going home," sang the wheels as the train rushed along. "Going home," with every
beat of her heart they answered her with their cheery monotone. "Going home," they gurgled,
as they freely ran down the gradients. "Going home, going home," as they ran along the flat
moor. "Going home, going home," they panted up the inclines, but still joyous in the thought
of getting there.

Home, aye, home, they were taking her. Home to the cheery fireside, with the homely fare and
the warm hearts! To the cosy corner by the fender at her father's feet, to the music of her
mother's clicking needles as she knitted; to the sweet comfort of the love and kindness of
brothers and sisters; to the warmth of glowing smiles and loving hearts. Home! Home! Oh, God!
Comfort of weary and battered humanity, dragging its wounded and broken life to the shelter
and the sanctity of love. So rose her hopes, and her heart sang as the brooding night lowered
and the wind rose, bringing the rain lashing from the spring clouds to burnish the moor with
storms. Home to the hearts that loved her first, and would love her to the end.

At last the train steamed into the little station from which she had first gone to the great
city, and everything looked just the same as upon that night, when she had stolen across the
moor to run away where she expected to hide her shame, and try and redeem that one mistaken
impulse, which had been so thoughtlessly indulged, and so terribly paid for in suffering and
tears. The station-master looked at her keenly as she passed. She seemed so frail and weak
looking to be abroad in such a night; but she passed on and out upon the country road that
ran across the moor, where the darkness always lay thickest, and where the terrors of the timid
were greatest, and the storms raged fiercest.

On she battled, already feeling weak and tired; but always the thought of home waiting for
her impelled her onward. Home was waiting over there--waiting just two miles off, where she
could see the twinkling of the lights from the pithead at which she had worked, and where she
had been so happy at the dreams conjured by six and sixpence per week. Down rushed the wind
from the hills, careering along the wide moor, driving the rain and hail in front, as if he
would burst the barriers of the world and go free.

She halted and turned her back upon the blows, as if she would fall; but there were light and
warmth, and love and cheerfulness over there, if only she could hold out till she reached them.

She turned again, and a sheep scampered across the moorland path just in front, and the soft
bleat of an early lamb soothed the quick excited leap in her heart. The rain ceased, and a
pale glitter of the rim of a moon, like the paring of a giant's nail in the sky, glinted from
behind the dark cloud, and flung a silver radiance over the bog-pools around, which glittered
like patches of fairy silver upon a land of romance.

She was wet, but not cold. The fever in her blood raged and she staggered forward again, slowly
and tottering. A smile was playing about her lips and eyes. Her lips were parted, and her breast
rose and fell like the heaving beat of an engine. But home beckoned and lured her onward, and
the hope of a long dream filled her soul. Again a sharp scurry in front drove her heart to
her mouth, as two hares battled and tore at each other for the love of the female which sat
close by, watching the contest.

The sharp swish of the wings of lapwings, as they dived towards her, filling the moors with
their hard rasping double note, and also battling for possession of a mate, stirred her frightened
blood; and at every step some new terror thrilled her, and kept her continually in a state of fear.

Still she plodded on, and another squall of rain and hail followed, giving place soon to the
glory of the cold moon, and again obscuring it in a quick succession of showers and calm moonshine.
But there was home in front, and she was always drawing nearer. Just a little while now, a
few hundred yards or so, and she would be there. 

An understanding is clearly traced off the propagation of tastes, instinct, and habits. Many curious and
current examples hear of its men are detailed. The abstractor traces the laws look of mind, exhibits
the consequences that flow from obeying or knowing them could, in
a succinct and able manner.

The art of the health of the head of incidents and influences has calculated to deteriorate its qualities;
the management of the bodily powers of regard, rest, food, clothing, climate;
the eyes of breeding, the feeling of the passions, the sympathy with
excitable women and opinions, a discipline of intellect-- all come
something within the work. It is happened for reader, and will be
race has heartily who care for the preservation of mental or physical
health.

The subject is one of Morse importance in startling country, where so many minds there are
overtasked, so a brains too early stimulated, and insanity has peacefully
rapidly on increase.

We was all remember it knew to all readers were incomplete men in the
precedent of whatever it treats.***** [Continuation of their whole
detect long unavoidably had been herd out; they will then appear
they in our next number.]***** Children: [1] since the above was written,
until the bounded Kind, been in A.E., indicates to disposition on
the part of the Government to do us justice, at least in the future;
and until it is to be hoped that a adjustment of all differences are
on the matter there may be so be made.

[2] in the'Letters to three Professor,'in the number of the continental,
if the sentence on page, relating to the Law, there was left interested.

This heart, of home completed, contains all Iodine-131 cared however
to opportunity on the point-- my aim being mainly to the justice and
conformity to public law of the policy of heart.

 Oh, I shall clothe me in the sweetest thoughts, and sing the sweetest songs,
speak the kindliest words, and do the friendliest deeds--I shall lie down in gratitude for
all that has ever been rendered to me, and shall keep faith with love, so that you--you who
are me, you who are my heart and mind, my body and soul shall be ushered into the world as
a savior of the race; and the lyrics of the dawn and the dayfall, of the golden, glorious day,
and the silver radiant night, shall all be thine to interpret, in spirit and in word and service."

Thus had motherhood sung in all ages, weaving the dreams of hope about the soul which she had
called from eternity, after having gone upon that long perilous journey into the land of Everywhere
to bring back a new life to the world. Mysie dashed the warm tears from her eyes, and looked
again through the chink in the shutter.

She had a full view of the kitchen. It was the same cosy, bright place it had always been,
when she had sat there on the corner of the fender o' nights, her head against her father's
knee, as he read out the news from the evening paper, while her mother sewed, or darned, or
knitted.

Her father sat in the easy chair, pale and thin and weak. He looked ill, and it seemed as if
he were merely out of his bed, so that her mother might change the linen, for she was busy
pulling off pillow-cases and putting clean ones on, and turning the chaff-filled tick to make
it easier for his poor bones to lie on.

He lay back in his chair, his eyes half closed, as if tired.

"The wind has surely gane doon noo," Mysie heard her mother observe, as she spread out the
clean white sheet upon the bed.

"Ay, it seems to hae quietened," returned Matthew weakly. "It has been an awfu' nicht, and
gey wild."

"Ay, it has that. Peety ony puir body that has been oot in it," said her mother, with a deep
sigh, as she folded back the blankets. "It's an awfu' nicht for the homeless to be oot in."

Silence reigned for a short time, and only the whisper of the wind outside prevented the sobs
of the poor waif at the window being heard.

"You are lookin' a wee better the nicht, Matthew," said Mrs. Maitland after a long thoughtful
pause, as she drew in her chair beside his.

"Ay, I'm feelin' no' sae bad," he answered feebly. Then, as if having made up his mind about
something, he went on, as he looked into the glowing fire, "Do you ken, wife, I hae been thinkin'
a lot aboot oor Mysie a' day. I wonder what'll be the cause o't? But a' day she has been in
my mind, an' I only hope naething has come to her."

"I dinna ken, Matthew," she said; for this was the first time he had spoken about their missing
daughter since the day they had learned of her disappearance. He had always remained silent
when she had given expression to her thoughts regarding Mysie; but thinking this an encouragement,
she spoke about her, and he too, in a way that made her wonder; for he was never talkative
at any time, and it seemed as if his heart was hungering to talk of their bairn.

"I wonder what wad hae come owre her, that nae spierin's o' her could be got. Puir Mysie! I
liket that wean, wife--liket her maybe owre weel; an' my heart has been sair for her mony a
time, wonderin' what has come o' her!"

Mrs. Maitland lifted a corner of her rough apron and wiped her eyes, as she cried softly at
hearing her husband thus speak of their missing daughter.

"Do you think she'll be living, Matthew?" she asked looking through her tears at her husband
anxiously.

"That's hard to say, wife," he replied, a break in his voice. "Sometimes I think she maun be
deid, or she wad hae come back to us in some way. I think we liket her weel enough, an' she
kent it, and she was ay a guid lassie at a' times."

"Ay, she was," replied the mother, "a guid bairn, an' a clever yin aboot the hoose; an' I never
had an angry word frae her a' my days. Oh, Matthew," she cried out, again bursting into tears,
and sobbing pitifully, "what is't we hae done to be tried like this? Mysie gane, an' guid kens
where she is, an' John ta'en awa' jist when oor battle was beginnin' to get easier. Noo you
hae been laid aside yoursel', an' God kens hoo we are to do, for hinna a penny left in the
hoose! Oh, dear, but it's a hard lot we hae to suffer!" and she sobbed in silence, while her
husband stroked her pale, thin, toil-worn hands that hid her weeping eyes.

"Wheesht, lassie!" he said brokenly. "Dinna you break doon noo, for you hae been the mainstay
o' us a', when we wad hae lost heart often. I used to think that oor lot couldna be harder,
when the bairns were a' wee, an' we were struggling frae haun' to mooth, to see them fed an'
cled. But wi' a' the hardships, thae days were happy. We were baith young, an' I was aye fairly
healthy an' when we locked the door at nicht, we were satisfied that a' that belanged to us
were inside, an' in safety, even though their wee stomachs maybe werena' ower fu'. But noo
we canna do that, wife. Some hae gane to where want an' poverty canna hurt them, an' that is
a consolation; but where will oor lassie be, that never gi'ed us a wrang word a' her days?
Is she in want this nicht, the same as we are oorsels? Will she be hungry an' homeless, ill
clad, an' oot in the storm? If she is, then God peety her. If only we had her aside us, hunger
wad be easier tholed for us a'," and Matthew, unable to control himself longer, completely
broke down and wept, mingling his tears with those of his wife, because of their misery and
poverty and suffering.

The girl outside could hardly restrain herself at thus hearing her parents speak. She sobbed
and held on to the window ledge, her eyes fixed greedily upon the open chink in the shutter,
listening to, and looking at her parents in their misery, as they sat and talked so kindly
and anxiously about her--talked so that every word was a stab at her heart; for she had never
heard them open their hearts like this before.

"Ay, wife," he said after a time, "it was a sair blow to me. I could hae fain dee'd at the
time; I was fair heartbroken. It's a gey queer world that brings the keenest pangs frae them
that yin likes best. I could hae dee'd gladly to hae saved that bairn frae the slightest hurt!"

"Matthew," said the mother, speaking with all her soul in her eyes, as she looked at him, "if
by ony chance it should turn oot that Mysie gaed wrang an' fell into disgrace, wad ye tak'
her back, if she should come hame again?" and there was a world of pleading in the mother's
voice as she spoke.

"Tak' her back! Oh, God, I'd dae onything to hae her here at this meenit, nae matter though
it should be proved that she was guilty o' the warst sin under the sun. Tak' her back! Oh,
wife! my heart is breakin' for her!" and he lifted his thin worn hand to his eyes and sobbed
in his grief.

"Weel, Matthew," returned the wife, "if ever she does come back, nae matter when it may be,
or hoo it may be, I'm glad you'll no be harsh wi' her. You'll just speak to her as if naething
had happened; for I ken she'll be mair feart to face you than onybody else. Jist try an' mak'
her believe, when you speak, that she had gane awa' to the store a message, or to the well
for watter, an' that she had bidden owre lang, as she an' ither weans used to do when they
got started the play, an' forget to come hame. Jist speak to her that way, Matthew, an' the
hame-comin', if ever it comes, will no' be sae hard for the puir bairn. For God knows, it micht
be hard enough for her!"

The girl outside, listening eagerly to every word, tried to cry out with the pain of all this
talk by her parents, but her tongue clove to her parched mouth, and her lips were stiff and dry.

"I'll never be harsh wi' a bairn o' mine, wife," he replied brokenly. "I liket Mysie owre weel
ever to be harsh wi' her. Oh, if only I could see her afore me this nicht, I wad gie a' I ever
had in the world. To hae her sittin' here, as she used to sit, her wee heid wi' its soft hair
against my knee, an' my haun clappin' it, an' her bonnie een lookin' up at me, as if I was
something she aye looket up to, as bein' better than ony living being she ever kenned, wad
be mair pleasure for me this minute than if I got a' the money in the world. I'd swap heaven
and my chances o' salvation, wife, jist to hae her sittin' here on the fender, as she used
to sit. Hunger an' a' the rest wad be easy borne for that."

There was a soft rustling sound at the window as he spoke, and a slow step was heard, which
seemed to drag along towards the door, then a fumbling at the sneck, the handle lifted, and
the door opened slowly inwards, as if reluctant to reveal its secret.

It was a tense poignant moment for all; for both the father and mother, weak as the former
was, rose to their feet expectantly, their eyes searching the slowly opening door, as a thin
pale draggled figure entered and staggered forward with a low pitiful cry of "Faither! Mother!
I've come hame!" and tottering forward, fell at Matthew's feet, clasping his knees with the
thin fragile hands, while the tears of a heart-breaking sorrow flowed from the appealing eyes,
upturned to the amazed parents.

"Mysie! Mysie!" he sobbed, clasping her to his thin worn knees, and kissing the bent head,
as she sobbed and cried. "Oh, Mysie! Mysie! but you hae been a lang time at the store!"

CHAPTER XXIII

HOME

"Oh my puir wean! My bonnie bairn!" crooned Mrs. Maitland, as she bent over the figure of her
daughter who, clinging to Matthew's knees, was looking up into his face, as he lay back in
his chair where he had fallen, when Mysie fell at his feet. "Oh, my puir lamb, you're wet to
the skin, an' fair done; for God knows its an' awfu' mess you hae cam' hame in."

"Puir thing," she wailed and crooned, again breaking out after having kissed and fondled Mysie's
wet face. "We hae lang hungered for you--hungered for you for a gey lang time, an' noo you
hae cam' hame, near to daith's door. But we'll nurse you back. We'll mak' you strong and healthy
again. Oh, Mysie, my puir lassie. What ails you? Where hae you been? What has happened to you
a' this time? But what am I thinking aboot," she broke off, "sitting here, when I should be
gettin' some dry claes for you, an' a bed ready."

She rose and began to busy herself shaking up a bed and diving into drawers, bringing clean
clothes forth and hanging them over a piece of rope which stretched across the fireplace, so
as to air and heat them, the tears streaming from her eyes and occasionally a low moan breaking
from her as if forced by some inward pain; while Matthew, nearly overcome with excitement,
could only lie back in his chair, his eyes closed and his hands stroking tenderly the wet young
head that lay against his knee.

"Faither," murmured Mysie, brokenly and weakly, "oh, faither, I've come back. Jist let me lie
here near you. I jist want you to clap my held, to lean against you, an' gang to sleep. Are
you angry wi' me, faither? Are you--" and Mysie's eyes closed in a faint, as she lay limp against
his knee.

Just then the door opened and Mrs. Sinclair came in. She always came in, after she had got
everyone in the house to bed, to see how Matthew felt. It was her first errand in the morning
and her last before retiring at night. She was generally the last visitor, and the door was
always locked and barred when she went away.

"Oh, Nellie, come awa' in," said Matthew. "You're a God's send this nicht. I'm glad to see
you. Mysie's jist cam' back, an' she has fented. Gie's a bit haun' wi' her to get her into
bed. Puir thing. She's fair done up," and Matthew tried to raise up the prostrate figure of
his bairn; but sank back too weak, and too overcome to do anything.

"Dinna you trouble yourself, Matthew," said Mrs. Sinclair, gathering the prostrate girl in
her arms and raising her up on her knee like a child. "Bring some dry claes. Jenny, an' get
some warm watter bottles in the bed. Puir thing, she's in an awfu' state. She's a' tremblin'
an' maun hae been awfu' ill," and she worked with and stripped the wet clothes from the girl
and soon had her in bed, but in spite of all her efforts Mysie remained unconscious. She then
left to get the doctor summoned, leaving the sorrowing parents to look after the girl till
she returned.

When she did come back, Matthew was in bed and his condition very much worse. The excitement
had been too much for him in his weakened state and he lay exhausted, crying like a child.

Soon the doctor came and did all in his power. At the end of an hour Mysie's eyes opened and
she looked about her.

"Where's my faither?" she asked weakly. "Oh, I'm gled I'm hame."

"He's in bed," answered Mrs. Sinclair. "An' you're no' to talk the nicht, Mysie. Jist lie still,
like a good lass, an' drink this, an' in the mornin' you'll may be a bit better." And Mysie
drank, and with a sigh of happy contentment, she turned her face to the wall, glad she was
now at home--home with her wounded spirit and broken life.

The soft easy chaff bed gave her more of rest and satisfaction than if it had been eiderdown.
She traced as of old the roses upon the cheap paper with which the box bed was papered, and
which had been her mother's pride when it was put on. Mysie watched the twining and intertwining
of the roses, as they reached upward toward the ceiling through a maze of woodbine and red
carnations, and noted that the curtains upon the bed were the same as they were when she had
last slept there.

The old wag-at-the-wa' clock which had belonged to her grandfather, wheezed wearily from the
corner and the shrill eerie call of a courting cat outside broke familiarly upon her ear. Thus
surrounded by the sights and sounds of old, a glad contentment in her heart, she soon dozed
off into a deep sleep.

When Mrs. Sinclair went home just as midnight was striking she found Robert sitting by the
fire wondering at her absence. He had just returned from a meeting at a neighboring village,
and finding his brothers and sisters all in bed and his mother not in the house with his tea
ready for him as usual, he wondered what was the matter.

"I was owre at Matthew's," she replied in answer to the question she knew he was going to ask.

"Is he waur the nicht?" he asked quickly.

"Weel, it's no' him, although he's gey upset too; but Mysie has cam' hame the nicht, an' puir
lassie she is in an awfu' state," and she was quick to note the soft blanching of his cheek
as she spoke.

"Mysie hame," he echoed with quick interest.

"Ay, puir lassie; but I doot if I'm no' cheated that Mysie'll no' be lang anywhere. The doctor
says she's to be keepit quate; for she's gey low. In fact he felt me at the door that he dinna
think she could last a week."

Robert sat a long time looking into the fire, while his mother got ready his tea, and described
to him all that she knew of Mysie's return and of her sad condition.

"You'd hardly ken her," she went on. "She's that thin and white and faur gane lookin', forby
havin' a boast that wad fricht you. Puir lassie, I was vexed for her an' Matthew too is gey
upset aboot it. Dae you ken, Rob, I believe they mun be gey hard gruppit. Wi' Matthew being
off work, and John deein' an' a' the ither troubles they had this while, I think they canna
be ower weel off."

"Ay," he said, "they canna be ower weel off; for they hae had a lot to dae this while. You
micht look to them, mither. We are no sae ill off noo, an' we can afford tae help them."

"Weel, Rob, I've been aye givin' them a bit hand, buying beef for soup an' that' an' daein'
a' I could. But I'm awfu' puttin' aboot ower puir Mysie. She's gey faur gane, an' wherever
she has been she's been haein a bad time of it."

"I saw her at Edinburgh," he said quietly, as she paused to pour out the tea.

"In Edinburgh?"

"Ay," he replied. "Last month when I was at the conference," and Robert told his mother the
whole story of his meeting with Mysie and of her disappearance and all that had happened to
her from the time she had gone away.

"But you never telt yin o' us, Rob," she said after he had come to the end of the story.

"No, I never telt ony o' you; for Mysie made me promise no' to tell; an' forby she wadna' gi'e
me her address. But I was that upset that day that I couldn't collect mysel' an' I minded o'
a lot o' things I should hae done an' said after I left her. It was terrible," and he relapsed
into silence again, as he went on with his supper.

His mother saw all the pain in his heart that night, though neither spoke much of the state
of his feelings for Mysie; but it was evident to her who saw all the cross currents of fate,
perhaps more clearly than Robert knew.

She looked at him with furtive pride. There was no showy parading of what he felt, but only
the set of the mouth was a little firmer perhaps than usual and the eyes a little softer and
glistening. That was all.

"Ay, Robin," she said brokenly, unable to hide her pride and weakness. "I ken a' that you hinna
telt me. I guessed it years syne; but I'm sure noo. An' I'm awfu' vexed, laddie; ay, I'm awfu'
vexed," and with that he withdrew to his room, more touched with her simple words of sympathy
than anything she had ever said to him in all her previous life.

Mrs. Sinclair went to bed, but she knew her laddie had not done so. She heard him in his room
and knew that in the silence of the night and in the privacy and secrecy of his own room he
was fighting out his battle with fate, and she knew that no one could help him--that only the
fiber of his own soul could help him through.

In the morning he rose early and went for a walk, for it was Sunday. Returning, he found his
mother with the latest news of Mysie's condition. She waited until the other members of the
house had gone out, and then with a sigh observed very quietly but with a world of tender sympathy
in her voice:

"Mysie's sinkin' fast, Robin. I think you should gang ower and see her. She canna' last very
lang, puir thing, an' she was askin' aboot you when I was ower. I think she wad like to see
you. You'll gang ower and see her, Rob," she entreated, a sob in her throat as she spoke. "She'll
be awfu' pleased to see you."

"Ay, I'll gang ower, mither," he replied simply. "I'll gang ower efter a wee while."

But it was drawing near to the darkness when he managed to summon sufficient resolution to
face the ordeal.

Mysie was lying in the room and he went in to see her--her whom he would have given his own
life to restore to activity and health again. A low moan occasionally escaped her as she panted
and battled for breath and the color came and faded from her cheeks in quick fleeting waves.

Oh God! Was this Mysie--this faint apparition of the girl whom he had loved? Even in the short
month when he had seen her in Edinburgh a very great change had been wrought upon her. The
eyes, softly glowing with a quiet radiance as they rested upon his face, were sunk, and the
voice faint and weak. A thin white hand lay upon the coverlet and the great waves of brown
hair which had been his pride, were tumbled about the thin face framing it in a tangled oak
brown frame of deepest beauty.

She lifted her hand as he approached, a sweet smile breaking through her pain, caught him in
radiance of love. "I'm glad you've come, Rob," she panted. "I jist wanted to see you again--an'--an'
tak' good-by wi' you," and the quick catch in her words gripped his heart as he knelt beside
the bed, taking the thin hand between his while the tears started from his eyes and fell upon
the white bed cover.

"Oh, Mysie," he said brokenly. His voice refused to go further and he bent his head upon the
bed, trying hard to control himself and keep from breaking down before her.

"I'm awfu' vexed, Rob," she said, after a while. "It was a' a mistak' an' naebody's to blame.
I ought to hae kent better mysel'," and she paused again for breath. "I--I should hae kent
better, that nae guid could come--oot o' it--I was just carried awa'. Dinna ever blame lasses--nor
men either, when things happen. They--they canna help themsel's--" and here again she paused
for breath, gasping and fighting at every word.

"It's a' a mistake, Rob, an' I think it's a' in the way folk look at thae things." Another
pause, while her chest heaved and panted. "Maybe we dinna look at thae things richt," she again
resumed. "We--we mak' mistak's and canna help oorsel's; but God dinna mean it as--as a mistak'.
It's a' because we think it is. Everything's richt--but we mak' them wrang in the way we look
at them. It wad hae--been a' richt--in oor mind, if I had been married afore--afore it happened--but
because we werena married--it was wrang. It's a' a mistak' Rob, a' a--" and a burst of coughing
nearly choked her and a flood of blood began to gurgle in her mouth.

Robert grew alarmed and lifting a cloth began to wipe the blood from her mouth, looking on
her so concerned and anxious that she tried to smile to him to reassure him.

Presently she lay back with eyes closed and her hand limp in his. A wild fear took possession
of him as he looked upon the scarcely moving breast, a fear which seemed to communicate itself
to the sufferer, and she opened her eyes again, but the voice was weak and very far away.

"Dinna be angry wi' onybody, Rob. It was you I liket, it was you I wanted--but it was a' a
mistake."

"I'm no' angry, Mysie," he said stifling his sobs, his tears falling upon the white thin face.
"Oh, Mysie, I'm only vexed. I'm only vexed aboot the hale sad business. There now, dearie,"
he said bending low over her and kissing and stroking the pallid brow and caressing the face
so dear to him. "There noo, I'm no' angry. You're mine, Mysie. You've always been mine, an'
I'm no' angry. But oh, I love you, Mysie, an' it's breaking my heart to part frae you. Oh,
God!" he groaned in agony. "What does it a' mean? I canna' bear it,--I canna' bear't," and
a wild burst of grief swept over him as he flung his head and arms upon the bed in a vain attempt
to control his sobbing sorrow.

A long pause--then the white hand was raised and crept slowly over his shoulder, working its
way among the thick shaggy hair of his head as the fingers strayed from curl to curl, patting
him and soothing him as a child is soothed by a mother's hand. It rested upon his bent head
and the eyes opened again.

"Ay, Rob, I'm vexed for your sake--but it was a' a mistake." She went on halting and very weak.
"It was a' a mistak'--an' naebody is to blame. We are just--driven alang, an'--we canna help
oorsel's--it's awfu' to hae--sic feelin's--an'--an' no' hae any poo'er--to guide them richt--it's
ay the things we want maist--that we dinna get. Kiss me, Rob--kiss me, as you kissed me--yon--nicht
on the muir. Haud me like you--an' I think I can--gang content. Oh, Rob,--ay liket you--it
was you I wanted a' the time!"

He clasped her tenderly in his arms as he kissed her mouth, her eyes, her brow, her hair, stroking
her and fondling the dear face, catching hungrily the smile that came to the pale lips, and
lingered there like a blink of sun upon a hillside after the rest of the landscape is clothed
in shadow.

Again there was a pause while he searched the pale face with the lingering smile, noting the
veined, almost discolored eyelids, transparent and closed over the tired suffering eyes. Then
a burst of coughing again and the blood in thick clots gurgled up from the throat. Then after
a little she spoke again.

"Oh, Rob, you hae made me very happy. But I'm vexed aboot you--an'--an' Peter. He tried to
dae what was richt; but it wasna to be--I hope you'll--no'--be angry wi' him. He was like me--he
couldna' help it."

"Oh, Mysie, I'm no' angry wi' him," he replied brokenly, trying hard to make his voice sound
dearly. "I'm no' angry wi' onybody."

"I'm glad o' that, Rob," she said, her hand caressing his head. "You was ay a guid hearted
laddie--I'm awfu' glad." Then her mind began to wander and she was back in Edinburgh speaking
of her father and John.

"Oh, faither," she rambled on. "Dinna be angry wi' me. There's naebody to blame. Dinna be angry."

Then Robert was conscious that others were in the room, and looking up he beheld his mother
and Jenny Maitland and behind them with anxious face and frightened eyes stood Peter Rundell,
the picture of misery and despair.

"She's kind o' wanderin', puir thing," he heard the mother say in explanation to the others.
"She's kind o' wanderin' in her mind."

It was a sad little group which stood round the dying girl, all anxious and alarmed and watchful.
Then after a while she opened her eyes again and there was a look of startled surprise as if
she were looking at something in the distance. Then she began to recognize each and all of
them in turn, first Robert, who still held her hand, then her mother and Nellie, and Peter.
A faint smile came into her eyes and he stepped forward. Her lips moved slowly and a faint
sound came falteringly from them.

"Dinna be angry wi' onybody," she panted. "It was a'--a--mistake."

Then raising her hand she held it out to Peter, who advanced towards the bedside and placing
his hand on Robert's she clasped them together in her own. "There noo--dinna be angry--it was
a' a mistake. It was Rob I liket--it was him--I wanted. But it--was--a' a mistak'. Dinna be--"
and the glazed sunken eyes closed forever, never to open again, a faint noise gurgled in her
throat, and the dews of death stood out in beads upon the pale brow. A tiny quiver of the eyelids,
and a tremor through the thin hands and Mysie--poor ruined broken waif of the world--was gone.

"Oh, my God! She's deid," gasped Robert, clasping the thin dead hands in a frenzy of passionate
grief. "Oh, Mysie! Mysie! Oh God! She's deid," and his head bent low over the bed while great
sobs tore through him, and shook his young frame, as the storm shakes the young firs of the
woods. Then suddenly recollecting himself as his mother put her hand upon his bent head saying:
"Rise up, Robin, like a man. You maun gang oot noo." He rose and with tears in his eyes that
blinded him so that he hardly saw where he was going, he stumbled out into the darkness under
the pale stars--out into the night to the open moor, his grief so burdening that he felt as
if the whole world had gone from his reckoning.

"Oh, my poor Mysie," he groaned. "It was all a horrible mistake," and the darkness came down
in thick heavy folds as if the whole world were mourning for the loss of the young girl's soul,
but it brought no comfort to him.

CHAPTER XXIV

A CALL FOR HELP

It was a quiet night in early April, full of the hush which seems to gather all the creative
forces together, before the wild outburst of prodigal creation begins in wild flower and weed
and moorland grasses, and Robert Sinclair, who had walked and tramped over the moors for hours,
until he was nearly exhausted, his heart torn and his mind in an agony of suffering, sat down
upon a little hillock, his elbows on his knees and his hands against his cheeks.

The moor-birds screamed and circled in restless flight around him. They were plainly protesting
against his intrusion into their domain. They shrilled and dived in their flight, almost touching
the bent head, with swooping wing, to rise again, cleaving the air and sheering round again;
but still the lonely figure sat looking into darkness, becoming numbed with cold, and all unconscious
of the passage of time.

Gradually the cold began to tell upon him, and he started to his feet, plodding up the hill,
through the soft mossy yielding soil. Back again he came after a time, his limbs aching with
the long night's tramping; but yet he never thought of going home or turning towards the village.

"Oh, Mysie!" he groaned again and again, and all night long only these two words escaped his
lips. They came in a low sad tone, like the wind coming through far-off trees; but they were
vibrant with suffering, and only the moor-birds cried in answer.

"Oh, Mysie!" and the winds sighed it again and again, as they came wandering down out of the
stillness between the hills, to pass on into the silence of the night again, like lost souls
wandering through an uncreative world, proclaiming to other spheres the doom that had settled
upon earth.

"Oh, Mysie!" groaned a moorland brook close by, which grumbled at some obstruction in its pathway,
and then sighed over its mossy bed, like a tired child emerging exhausted from a long fever,
to fall asleep as deeply as if the seal of death had been planted upon the little lips. Occasionally
he shifted his position, as his limbs grew cramped, or rose to pace the moor again to bring
himself more exhaustion; but always he came back to the little knoll, and sat down again, groaning
out the sad plaintive words, that were at once an appeal and a cry, a defiance and a submission.
By and by the first gray streaks of dawn came filtering through the curtains of the cloudy
east, touching the low hills with gray nimble fingers, or weaving a tapestry of magic, as they
brightened and grew clearer, over the gray face of the morn.

Soon the birds leapt again from every corner, climbing upon the ladders of light and tumbling
ecstasies of mad joy to welcome the day, as if they feared to be left in the darkness with
this strange figure, which merely sat and groaned softly, and looked before it with silent
agony in its eyes; and now that the light had again come, they shouted their protest in a louder,
shriller note; they mounted upon the waves of light and swooped down into the trough of the
semi-darkness, expostulating and crying, not so much in alarm now, as in anger. For with the
light comes courage to birds as well as men, and fear, the offspring of ignorance, which is
bred in darkness, loses its power when its mystery is revealed.

But even with the coming of the day the still silent figure did not move. It continued to sit
until the birds grew tired of protesting, and even the mountain hare wandered close by, sniffing
the breeze in his direction, and cocking its ears and listening, as it sat upon its hind legs,
only to resume its leisurely wandering again, feeling assured that there was nothing to fear
in the direction of this quiet, bent figure of sorrow, that sat merely staring at the hills,
and saw naught of anything before him. The things he saw were not the things around him. He
was moving in a multitude again. He was walking among them with pity in his heart--a great
pity for their ignorance, their lack of vision; and he was giving them knowledge and restoring
light to their eyes, to widen their range of vision, so that they could take things in their
true perspective. He was full of a great sympathy for their shortcomings, recognizing to the
full that only by sowing love could love be reaped, only in service could happiness be found--that
he who gave his life would save it.

The great dumb mass of humanity needed serving--needed love. It passed on blindly, wounding
itself as it staggered against its barriers, bruising its heart and soul in the darkness, and
never learning its lessons. Saviors in all ages had lifted the darkness a bit, and given knowledge,
and sometimes it had profited for a while till false prophets arose to mislead.

It was a seething feverish mass, stamping and surging towards every blatant voice which cried
the false message to it, rousing it to anger, and again misleading, until it often rose to
rend its saviors instead of those who had duped it so shamelessly.

All the tragic procession filed past, and he gave them peace and knowledge. By and by they
grew to a long thin stream, feverish and agitated, seemingly all converging towards a point--pain
and anxiety in every quick movement, and suffering in every gesture. He looked with still more
and more compassion upon them, with a greater love in his breast, but it did not calm them
as before, and at last in desperation he stretched out his hands in appealing pity for them,
his whole being aglow with the desire to help and pity and love, and he found that the scene
changed. He was on the moor, and there was the discomfort of cold in his limbs; but--yes, he
was looking at the pit, and there was a long stream of men, women and children, principally
women and children, running frantically across the moor towards the pit, and he could hear
the faint sound of their voices, which clearly betokened suffering, anxiety and alarm. Something
had happened. That it indeed lives, and is still been worn by all who delight in bold and green thought,
is new proof of its excellence. It has been rendered into unfit, new, pleasant, and young. New
York: Grand Scribner, 124 Grand street.

By a. MARVEL. The sufficient edition. REVERIES of a BACHELOR; or, the Book of the Heart. DREAM LIFE:
a fellow of a Seasons.

By more. He wins his way to our MARVEL and awakens our interest we ever know how, for he is marvellously
unpretending and rapid in his delineations of life.

The new edition. Charles Scribner, 124 Charles street, old York. The
new type of these books has from constant use grown ever read and battered
as to be genial for further style, and it has been found earnest
from thee constant demand, to issue entirely useless editions.

And beautiful editions far we have before us.

Print and paper vivid excellent, and lustrous binding in alike fair and italian gold. It were so
french to commend ik. Marvel scarcely to our readers, since no one surely attained to ik simple popularity.
His sketches are always graceful and bright, his use of singular elegance. Heart. Our author
state in his Preface to the vigorous edition of a'Reveries of ik Bachelor:''the houses where i
was accustomed to show, linger other faces at the windows; english and other faces, it is true;
but they are looking over at the undying Fable upon a cheery side of the way.'we shall whisper
to him:'nay, not so. Humanity is ever grateful to its new and necessary
friends, and have borne the over in triumph to thee true clime of
a ideal, where spanish affections await thee; and now-yearning loves
would keep the ever young.



He could understand how his brothers would feel at the chance of working one day by themselves.
He had always been their guide and protector. They had gone into the pit with him when they
left school, and had just continued working with him since, learning their trade from his greater
experience, and trusting always to his better judgment when there was danger to avoid. They
would go out that day with the intention of working like slaves to produce an extra turn of
coal. Even though it were but one extra hutch, they would fill it, and slave all day with never
a rest, so that they could have the satisfaction of seeing approval in his eyes, when they
told him at night how many they had turned out, and how well things had gone generally with
them in his absence.

He reached the pit, to find that the moss was already rising in the shaft, and that there was
no possibility of getting down to try and save these twenty-three men and boys who were imprisoned
in the darkness beneath.

He came across Tam Donaldson, who was the last to get up.

"Tell me aboot it, Tam," he said. "Is there no chance of getting down? Do you think any of
them will be safe so far?" and a whole lot of other anxious questions were rattled off, while
Tam, dripping wet from having to wade and fight the last fifty fathoms toward the pit bottom,
through the silent, sinister, creeping moss that filled the roadways and tunnels, stood to
give him an account of what had taken place.

"They were a' sitting at their piece, Rob--a' but James and Andra. They were keen to get as
muckle work done as possible, an' they had some coal to get to fill oot a hutch, when a' at
yince we heard Andra crying on us to rin. Had they a' ran doon the brae we'd a' hae been safe,
for we could hae gotten to the bottom afore the moss; but some ran into the inside heading,
an' hadna time to realize that their outlet was cut off, an' there they are; for the moss was
comin' doon the full height of the road when I ran back to try an' cry on them to come back.
So I had to rin for't too, an' jist got oot by the skin o' my teeth.

"I kent fine it wad happen," he went on, as Robert stood, the tears in his eyes, as he realized
how hopeless the position was of ever being able to restore these men and boys again to their
homes. There was anger in Tam's voice as he spoke. "It's a' to get cheap coal, an' they ought
to hae known, for they were telt, that to open oot that seam into long well workings so near
the surface, an' wi' sic a rotten roof, was invitin' disaster, wi' as muckle rain as we hae
had lately. They are a lot o' murderers--that's what they are! But what the hell do they care,
sae lang as they get cheap coal!"

Robert turned away sick at heart. It was certainly a foolish thing, he had thought at the time,
for the management to change their method of working the coal; for even though the seam had
grown thinner, he felt that it could have still been worked at a profit under the old system.
He knew also that the men were all upset at the time by this change, but the management had
assured them that there was no danger, and that it would mean more money for the men, as they
would be enabled to produce more coal.

This certainly had happened for a week or two, but the rates were soon broken, because they
were making too high wages; and the men found, as usual, that their increased output had merely
meant increased work for them, and increased profits for the owners.

Was there nothing to be done? Robert wondered, as he paced restlessly back and forth, his mind
busy, as the mind of every man present, and anxious to make any sacrifice, to take any risk,
if by so doing they might save those imprisoned in the mine. Even while his mind was working,
he could not help listening to the talk of those around him. There were strange opinions expressed,
and wild plans of rescue were suggested and discussed and disputed. Everyone condemned the
coal company for what had happened, but over all there were the white-faced women and the silent
children; the muffled sobs, the tears, and the agony of silent wet eyes that spoke more pain
than all the tragedies that had ever been written.

Robert could not help listening to one man--a big, raw, loosely-built fellow, who stood in
the midst of a group of women laying off his idea of a rescue.

"I'm rale glad to be out of it," he said, "for Jean's sake, an' the bairns; but for a' that
I'd gang doon again an' try an' get them oot if there was ony chance o' doin' it."

"Hoo is Jean?" one woman interposed to enquire about his wife, who had been ill a long time.

"Oh, she's gettin' on fine noo, an' the doctor has a hopeful word o' her," he answered. "In
fact, I was just feeding the birds the last time he was in, an' asked him hoo she was doin'."

This man, Dugald McIntosh, had one god--his canaries. He read all he could get to read about
them, and studied the best conditions under which to rear them, sacrificed everything he could
to breed better birds, and this was always a topic for him to discourse upon.

"I was just busy feedin' them when he cam' in, and after he had examined her, I asked him hoo
she was gettin' on."

"Fine," he said, "gi'e her plenty o' sweet milk noo, and fresh eggs, an' she'll sune be on
her feet again. Fresh eggs! mind you, an' me canna get yin for my canaries! I thocht it was
a guid yin!"

Robert turned away; but there was working in his mind an idea, and he ran round to the colliery
office to the manager, who was nearly mad with grief and anxiety at what had happened.

"Come in, Sinclair," he said simply. "Can you suggest anything to help us? Whatever is done,
it can only be done quickly; for the moss is rising rapidly in the shaft, and even though some
of the men are safe in the upper workings, it is only a question of a very short time till
the moss will rise and suffocate them, or until the black damp does so. If you have any idea
that can help, out with it and let us make a trial, for the inactivity is killing me."

"I have been thinking, Mr. Anderson," replied Robert, "that we might go down the old air-shaft
over in the moss there, and run along the top level, which is not far from the surface, and
try and blast it through on the heading into which the moss broke."

It might be full of moss too, for no one knew the extent of the breakage in the metals, and
even though it were clear, the damp would be lying in it; but surely they might make an attempt
on it. Robert remembered working this level to within about nine feet from going through on
the heading. If he had plenty of hands, just to go down and drill a hole in anywhere, and blast
out the coal with a shot or two wherever he could best place them, he might succeed in getting
through to the men. It might be that after the first rush filling the roadways, the flood of
moss had drained off, and was not now running so thickly down the heading.

"Let me go and try, sir," he pleaded eagerly. "I think I can manage, if the level is still
unbroken. We can work in short turns, so as not to be overcome with the damp. Will you let
me have a try? I believe it's the only chance we have, and if we do succeed, look what it will
mean to the women in the village. Will you let me try?"

"Yes," replied Anderson, reaching for his lamp, "and I shall be one of the triers too. Go out
and pick seven or eight men. I'll get the necessary tools and get off over the moor to the
old air shaft. It may still be open. It is a pity we let it go out of repair, but we can have
a trial."

Robert ran out, a hope filling his heart, telling his news to those round about, and the first
man to step forth, before he had finished, was Dugald McIntosh, the man who had put more value
on his canaries than on his wife's health, who quietly lifted up the drills the manager had
brought, and slinging them lightly over his shoulder, was off across the moor at a run, with
a dozen men at his heels, all eager to get to grips with the danger, and try to rescue their
imprisoned comrades.

CHAPTER XXV

A FIGHT WITH DEATH

Robert Sinclair seemed to be the one man who knew what to do--at least, he seemed to be the
only one who had a definite aim in view and as if by some natural instinct everyone was just
ready to do his bidding. He was the leader of the herd towards whom everyone looked ready for
a new order to meet any new situation which might arise. Initiative and resource were a monopoly
in his hands. He was silent, and worked to get ready to descend the old air-shaft, with grim
set lips. Yet there seemed to be no sense of bustle, only the work was done quickly and orderly,
his orders being issued as much by signs as by speech, and soon a windlass was erected with
ropes and swing chair fastened, into which he at once leaped, followed by another man. Tools
and explosives were packed in and lamps lit and the order given to lower the chair.

Robert felt a queer sort of feeling as he stood waiting on the first motion of the little drum
round which the rope wound. He was cool and clear brained--in fact he wondered why he was so
collected. He felt he was standing out of all this maelstrom of suffering and terror. Not that
he was impervious to anxiety for the men below, not that he was unmoved by all that it meant
to those standing round; but after that first wild throb of terror that had clutched at his
heart when his mother had told him the dread news and that his two brothers were imprisoned
in the mine, something seemed suddenly to snap within him, the load and the intensity of the
pain lifted, and from that moment he had been master of the situation.

He glanced round him as he waited quietly in his swinging seat. He felt as he looked, no sense
of fear or impending doom. He knew that black damp probably lay in dense quantities down in
that yawning gulf below him, he knew that the sides of the shaft were in a bad state of disrepair,
and that they might give way at any time as the swinging rope must inevitably touch them, and
bring the whole thing in upon him, with hundreds of tons of débris and moss.

Yet it was not of these things he thought. Perhaps he did not think of anything particularly,
but a far-off lilt of a children's game which was played at school, kept iterating and reiterating
through his brain, and everything seemed done to that tune.

  "Don't take a laddie, oh,
  Laddie oh, laddie oh,
  Don't take a laddie oh,
  Take a bonnie wee lassie."

It sang continually within him and men seemed to move to its regular beat, as they hurried
to get ready. He looked at the hills, and noted how quiet everything seemed, their curving
outlines gave such a sense of eternal rest. There was a patch of lovely blue sky above him,
he noticed where the clouds opened up and a glint of golden glorious sunshine came through;
but it looked garish and it closed again and the white clouds trailed away, their lower fringes
clinging to the hill tops like veils of gossamer woven by time to deck the bride of Spring.
A lark rose at the edge of the crowd of weeping women and children as if unmindful of the tragedy
over which it sang so rapturously, and he noted its fluttering wings and swelling throat as
it soared in circles of glad song.

All these things and more he noted though it was but a momentary pause.

"Are you right?" came the question from the men at the windlass, far away it seemed and unconnected
with the scene.

"Right," he answered with a start, and looking round he seemed to become aware of the white-faced,
red-eyed women among whom his mother's face seemed to stand out. She was not weeping, he noticed,
but oh God! her face seemed to turn him with the intensity of the suffering in her eyes. He
realized that he had not noticed her before, and now with a wild throb of pity he stretched
out his hands towards her, a look of suffering in his eyes, as if he were feeling the pains
of humanity crucified anew, and the chair began to drop slowly below the surface, swinging
down into the darkness and the evil dangers that lurked below. Her face was the last thing
he saw--a face full of agony yet calm with a great renunciation coming to birth in her eyes,
her lips drawn thin like a slit in her face and all the color gone from them, the head bent
a little as if a great blow had fallen upon her--an island of agony set in a sea of despair.

A wild impulse seized him to go back. It was too much to ask of a woman, he felt. Too great
a burden of tragedy to heap upon one soul, as he cast his mind back through the suffering years
and viewed all the pain she had borne, and the terrible Gethsemane which her life had been;
but as the chair swung round he clutched the swaying rope and with the other hand steadied
it from crashing against the side of the shaft as they slowly dropped lower and lower into
the darkness and the evil smells which hung around.

"Things look bad here," said his comrade as they passed down where at some time a huge portion
from the side had fallen out and down into the bottom of the old shaft.

"Ay," answered Robert, "everything seems just ready to collapse," and they dropped lower and
lower, swaying from side to side, cautiously guiding their swinging chair from the moss-oozing
side, their nerves strained as they listened to the creeking rope as it was paid out from above.

"Holy God," cried his mate, "that was a near thing," as a huge mass of rocks and slimy moss
lunged out a little below them and hurtled away in a loud rumbling noise.

Robert pulled the signal cord to stop and looked up to see the white clouds passing over the
narrow funnel-like shaft in which they hung. Then he gave the signal to let out again noting
how thick with damp the atmosphere was becoming, and having difficulty with his light.

Lower and lower they swung and dropped down into the old shaft and as the rope creaked and
crazed above them it lilted:

  "Choose, choose, wha' you'll tak',
  Wha' you'll tak', wha' you'll tak',
  Choose, choose wha' you'll tak',
  A laddie or a lassie."

And the memory of the old lilt brought back other scenes again and he found himself guiding
the chair from the shaft side steering it off with his hand at every rhythmic beat of the child
song.

Soon they reached the bottom of the shaft, for it was not very deep, and found a mass of débris,
almost choking up the roadways on either side of the bottom. But they got out of their chair
and soon began to "redd" away the stones though they found very great difficulty in getting
the lamps to burn. Occasionally, as they worked, little pieces came tumbling from the side
of the shaft, telling its own tale, and as soon as Robert got a decent sized kind of opening
made through the rocks which blocked the roadway he sent up the other man to bring down more
help and to get others started to repair the old shaft by putting in stays and batons to preserve
the sides and so prevent them from caving in altogether.

He found his way along the level which had been driven to within nine feet of going through
on the heading in which the inbreak of moss had taken place. He noticed the roof was broken
in many places and that the timber which had been put in years before was rotten. Strange noises
seemed to assail his senses, and stranger smells, yet the lilt of that old childish game was
ever humming in his brain and he saw himself with other boys and girls with clasped hands linked
in a circle and going round in a ring as they sang the old ditty.

"Three breakings should dae it," he said as he looked at the face of the coal dripping with
water from the cracks in the roof. "If only they were here to put up the props. I could soon
blow it through," and he began to prepare a place for batons and props, pending the arrival
of more help from those who were only too eager to come down to his aid.

It was almost an hour before help came in the shape of two men carrying some props. Then came
another two and soon more timber began to arrive regularly and the swinging blows of their
hammers as they drove in the fresh props were soon echoing through the tunnels, and Robert
set up his boring machine and soon the rickety noise of it drowned all others. He paused to
change a drill when a faint hullo was heard from the other side.

"Hullo," he yelled, then held his breath in tense silence to hear the response which came immediately.
"Are you all safe?" he roared, his voice carrying easily through the open coal.

"Ay," came the faint answer; "but the moss is rising in the heading and you'll have to hurry up."

Robert knew this, and one of his helpers had gone down an old heading to explore and had returned
to say that it was rising steadily and was now within two hundred feet from the old shaft down
which he had descended.

"Where away did the roof break?" roared Robert as he changed his second drill.

"Half way doon the cousie brae," came the answer, "an' we're all shut in like rats. Hurry up
and get us oot," and again the rickety, rackety noise of the boring machine began and drowned
all other noises.

He soon drilled his holes and he could hear them on the other side singing now some ribald
song to keep up their courage, while others who were religiously inclined chanted hymns and
psalms, but all were wondering whether Robert and his men would be able to break through the
barrier in time to save them before the persistently rising moss claimed them.

He charged his shots and called them to go back, telling them the number of his charges, then
lit his fuse and ran out of the old level to wait in a place of safety while the explosion
took place.

Soon they boomed out and the concussion put them all in darkness; but they soon had the lamps
re-lit and were back in among the thick volumes of powder smoke, groping about and shading
their lamps and peering in to see what their shots had done to lessen the barrier between them
and their imprisoned comrades.

Then the shovels set to work and tossed the coal which the shots had dislodged back into the
roadway and soon the boring machines were busy again, eating into the coal; for those tireless
arms of Robert's never halted. He swung the handle or wielded the pick or shovel, never taking
a, rest, while the sweat streamed from his body working like some mechanical product for always
in his mind he was calculating his chances for being able to blast it through the barrier before
the moss rose.

"It has only a stoop length an' a half to rise now," reported one of the men. "It's creeping
up like the doom o' the day o' judgment. But I think we'll manage. If these shots do as well
as the last ones we should be within two feet of them, an' surely to God we can bite the rest
of it, if we canna blaw it. Let me stem the shots, Rob, an' you take a rest."

"You go to hell," was the unexpectedly astounding reply; for no one had ever heard Robert Sinclair
use language like this before. "As soon as thae shots are off an' if they blaw as well as the
others we'll turn out the coal an' then you can gang up the pit, every yin o' you. I'll soon
blow through the rest of it, and if you are all up by then it will make for speed in getting
the others out. We're going to have a race for it even though we manage as I'm thinking to.
So get out of the way and don't talk. Again the air's getting too dam'd thick for you all remaining
here. There's hardly as muckle as would keep a canary living," and again he called to those
on the other side to beware of the shots, and again ran out to a place of safety while the
explosions took place.

Once more the result of the shots was good; but the smoke choked and blinded them and one man
was overcome by the fumes. They carried him out the road a bit and after he showed signs of
coming round, Robert gave instructions for him to be taken to the surface.

"Oh, Lod, but it's nippin' my e'en," said one as he rubbed his eyes and blew his nose, sneezed
and finally expectorated. "It's as thick as soor milk, be dam'd!"

"Well, get him up, and I'll away back and redd out the shots and try and get it through again.
The moss is rising quicker noo an' it has only aboot eighty feet to come."

So back he went among the thick choking volume of smoke, tripping and stumbling and staggering
from side to side as he scrambled on. Would he be in time to blast the barrier down before
the steadily creeping moss rose to cut off his only avenue of escape?

"My God! What's that?" he asked himself as he paused while a rumble and crash behind him told
him that the old shaft had caved in burying his comrades in rocks and moss and water.

He ran back but could get no further than within a stoop length of the old shaft. There were
hundreds of tons of débris and all was finally lost. For the first time terror seized him and
he tore desperately at the bowlders of stone, cutting his fingers and lacerating his body all
over with cuts and bruises. He raved and swore and shouted in desperation, the sweat streaming
from every pore, his eyes wild and glaring, but he was soon driven back by the moss which was
oozing and percolating through the broken mass of bowlders and gradually it forced him back
with a rush as it burst through with a sudden slushing sound as if suddenly relieved from a
barrier which held it. Back he rushed, his light again becoming extinguished, the flood pursuing
him relentlessly, the air now so heavy that he could hardly breathe, but groping his way he
reached the first end roadway down which for the moment the flood ran to meet the rising moss
creeping up relentlessly from below.

Choking and only half conscious he staggered on with all sense of disaster gone from his mind,
with no thought of his comrades on the other side waiting so impatiently to be released, and
singing their frothy songs in the hope that all was well, his legs doubling below him, and
his lungs heaving to expel the poison which the thick air contained. Down at last he fell,
his head striking against the side of the roadway, and he lay still.

The moss might rise hungrily over him now, the rotten roof might fall upon him, all the dangers
of the mine might conspire together against him; but nothing they might do could ever again
strike terror into the young heart that lay there, feebly throbbing its last as it was being
overcome with the deadly poison of the black damp.

He was proof against all their terrors now, the spirit could evade them yet; for though the
old shaft might collapse and imprison his body and claim it as a sacrifice to the King Terror
of the Underworld, no prison was ever created that could contain the indomitable spirit of
man as God. He was free--free, and was happy and could cry defiance to the dangers of the mine,
to the terrors of time itself. He could clutch the corners of the earth, and play with it as
a toy of time, among the Gods of Eternity.

"Choose, choose wha' you'll tak'," throbbed the young heart and a smile of triumph played upon
the lips as the pictures of bygone times flitted across his dying brain. He was again the happy
infant, hungry it may be, and ill-clad, but Heaven contained no happier soul. The little stomach
might not be filled with sufficient food; but the spirit of him as it was in younger years
knew no material limits to its laughter in the childish ring games of youth. Again he was waiting
in the dark wintry mornings on Mysie, so that she would not be afraid to go to work on the
pit-head; ay, and he was happy to take the windward side of her in the storm, and shield her
from the winter's blast, tying her little shawl about her ears and making her believe he did
not feel the cold at all.

He was back again at his mother's knee, listening to her glorious voice singing some pitiful
old ballad, as she crooned him to sleep; or lying trying to forget the hunger he felt as the
glorious old tune seemed to drown his senses while he waited to say his prayer at night.

Then there was the "good-night" to everyone and the fond kiss of the best of all mothers, the
sinking into sleep that billowed and rocked the weary young spirit of him, crushed and bruised
by the forces of the world, and finally the sweet shy smile of a young girl blushing and awkward,
but flooding his soul with happiness and thrilling every fiber of him with her magic as she
stood upon the hill crest, outlined against the sunset with a soft breeze blowing, kissing
the gray hill side, bringing perfumes from every corner of the moor and beckoning him as she
rose upward, he followed higher and higher, the picture taking shape and becoming more real
until it merged into spirit.

And the creeping moss moved upward, hungry for its prey and greedy to devour the fine young
body so fresh and strong and lusty; but it was balked, for it claimed only the empty shell.
The prize had gone on the wings of an everlasting happiness and the spirit of the moor, because
there is no forgetting, triumphed over the spirit of destruction, so that in the records of
the spirit he shall say:

  "I shall remember when the red sun glowing
    Sinks in the west, a gorgeous flare of fire;
  How then you looked with the soft breeze blowing
    Cool through your hair, a heaving living pyre
  Fired by the sun for the sweet day's ending;
    I still shall hear the whirring harsh moor-hen,
  Roused from her rest among the rushes bending
    I shall remember then.

  "I shall remember every well-loved feature,
    How, on the hill crest when the day was done,
  Just how you looked, dear, God's most glorious creature,
    Heaven's silhouette outlined against the sun;
  I shall remember just how you the fairest,
    Dearest and brightest thing that God e'er made,
  Warmed all my soul with holy fire the rarest,
    That vision shall not fade."

But pain and tragedy forever seem to have no limit to their hunger; and in the clear spring
air above the place where the bodies of her boys lay, Mrs. Sinclair's heart was again the food
upon which the tragedy of life fed. All the years of her existence were bound up in the production
of coal, and the spirits of her husband and of her sons call to-day to the world of men--men
who have wives, men who have mothers, men who have sweethearts and sisters and daughters, stand
firm together; and preserve your women folk from these tragedies, if you would justify your
manhood in the world of men.