Palus, I may remark, was always a gallant fighter, and a combination of skill and gallantry
in an adversary so won his goodwill that he never killed or seriously wounded such an opponent.
If his antagonist had an unusually perfect guard and a notably dangerous attack, was handsome,
moved gracefully, displayed courage and fought with impeccable fairness Palus felt a liking
for him, showed it by the way in which he stood on the defensive and mitigated the deadliness
of his attacks, played him longer than usual to demonstrate to all the spectators the qualities
he discerned in him, and, when he was convinced that the onlookers felt as he felt, disabled
his admired match with some effective but trifling wound.

Then, when his victim collapsed, Palus would leap back from him, sheath his sword, and saw
the air with his empty left hand, fingers extended and pressed together, thumb flat against
the crack between the roots of the index finger and big finger, twisting his hand about and
varying the angle at which he sawed the air, so that all might see that he wished his fallen
adversary spared and was suggesting that the spectators nearest him imitate his gesture and
give the signal for mercy by extending their arms thumbs flat to fingers.

Except Murmex Lucro I never saw any other gladiator presume to suggest to the spectators which
signal he would like them to display; and Murmex had the air of a man taking a liberty with
his betters and not very sure whether they would condone his presumption or resent his insolence;
whereas Palus waved his arm much as Commodus raised his from the Imperial throne when, as Editor
of the games, he decided the fate of a fallen gladiator concerning whom the populace were so
evenly divided between disfavorers and favorers that neither the victor nor his lanista dared
to interpret so doubtful a mandate.

The most amazing fact concerning Palus was that his audiences never wearied of watching him
fence. It is notorious that the spectators in the Colosseum always have been and are, in general,
impatient of any noticeable prolongation of a fight. Only a very small minority of the populace
and a larger, but still small, minority of the gentry and nobility, take delight in the fine
points of swordsmanship for themselves. Most spectators, while acclaiming skilled fence and
expecting it, look upon it merely as a means for adding interest to the preliminaries of what
they desire to behold. Even senators and nobles admit that the pleasure of viewing gladiatorial
shows comes from seeing men killed. Contests are thrilling chiefly because of their suggestion
of the approach of the moment which brings the supreme thrill.

The populace, quite frankly, rate the fighting as a bore; they do not come to watch skilled
swordsmen fence; they want to see two men face each other and one kill the other at once. It
is the killing which they enjoy. The upper tiers of spectators in the amphitheater seldom give
the signal for mercy when a defeated man is down and helpless, even though he be handsome and
graceful and has fought bravely, skillfully and gallantly. One seldom sees an outstretched
arm, with the hand extended, fingers close together and thumb flat against them, raised anywhere
from the back seats; their occupants habitually, in such cases, wave their upraised arms with
the hands clenched and thumbs extended, waggling their thumbs by half rotating their wrists,
to make the thumb more conspicuous, yelling the while, so that the amphitheater is full of
their insistent roar and the upper tiers aflash with flickering thumbs. They weigh no fine
points as to the worth of the vanquished man, they do not value a good fighter enough to want
him saved to fight again, they come to see men die and they want the defeated man slaughtered
at once.

They are habituated to acquiescing if the Emperor--or the Editor, if the Prince is not present--or
the nobility contravene their wishes and give the signal for mercy when a gallant fighter is
down by accident, misadventure or because he was outmatched. But there is often a burst of
howls if the signal for mercy comes not from the Imperial Pavilion or the whole podium, but
merely from some part of the nobility or senators. Generally, if the Emperor has not given
or participated in the signal for mercy, scattered individuals among the proletariat proclaim
their disappointment by booing, cat-calls, or strident whistlings.

Now Palus was so popular, so beloved by the slum-dwellers, that whenever he showed a disposition
to spare an opponent, the whole mass of the populace were quick with the mercy-signal: the
moment they saw Palus sheathe his blade their arms went up with his, almost before his, thumbs
as flat as his, never a thumb out nor any fingers clenched.

More than this, no spectator, while Palus played an adversary, ever yelled for a prompt finish
to the bout, as almost always happened at the first sign of delay in the case of any other
fighter. So comprehensible, so unmistakable, so manifest, so fascinating were the fine points
of the swordsmanship displayed by Palus that even the rearmost spectator, even the most brutish
lout could and did relish them and enjoy them and crave the continuance of that pleasure.

Most of all the Colosseum audiences not only insisted on Palus appearing in each exhibition,
not only longed for his entrance, not merely came to regard all the previous fights of the
day as unwelcome postponements of the pleasure of watching Palus fence, but were manifestly
impatient for the crowning delight of each day, the ecstacy of beholding a bout between Palus
and Murmex Lucro, which contests were always bloodless.

CHAPTER XXXV

MURMEX

Customarily, while Palus flourished, each day began with beast-fights, the noon pause was filled
in by exhibitions of athletes, acrobats, jugglers, trained animals and such like, and the surprise;
then the gladiatorial shows lasted from early afternoon till an hour before sunset. Palus and
Murmex appeared about mid-afternoon and were matched against the victors in the earlier fights.
Each located himself at one focus of the ellipse of the arena, at which points two simultaneous
fights were best seen by the entire audience. There they began each fight, not simultaneously,
but alternately, till all their antagonists were disposed of, most killed and some spared.
The spectators seldom hurried Murmex to end a fight; they never hurried Palus. His longest
delay in finishing with an adversary, even his manifest intention to exhaust an opponent rather
than to wound him, never elicited any protest from any onlooker. All, breathless, fascinated,
craned to watch the perfection of his method, every movement of his body, all eyes intent on
the point of his matchless blade.

Last of the day's exhibitions, came the fencing match between Palus and Murmex, at the center
of the arena, empty save for those two and their two lanistae. All others in the arena, including
the surgeons, their helpers and the guards, drew off to positions close under the podium wall.

Murmex and Palus fenced in all sorts of outfits, except that neither ever fought as a retiarius.
Mostly both were equipped as secutors, but they fought also as murmillos, Greeks, Gauls, Thracians,
Samnites and dimachaeri, or one in any of these equipments against the other in any other.

Sometimes they delighted the populace by donning padded suits liberally whitened with flour
or white clay, their murmillos' helmets similarly whitened, and then attacking each other with
quarter-staffs of ash, cornel-wood or holly. A hit, of course, showed plainly on the whitened
suits. As neither could injure the other in this sort of fight, and as they were willing to
humor the populace, each was careless about his guard and reckless in his attack. Even so hits
were infrequent, since each, even when most lax, had an instinctive guard superior to that
of the most expert and cautious fencer among all other contemporary fighters. Even when, very
occasionally, if Palus happened to be in a rollicking mood, each substituted a second quarter-staff
for his shield and, as it were, travestied a dimachaerus, as what might be called a two-staff-man
or a double-staff-man, hits were still not frequent. Each had a marvellously impregnable defence
and they were very evenly matched in the use of the quarter-staff in place of a shield as they
were in everything else. Palus fought better with his left hand attacking and his right defending,
Murmex better the other way, but each was genuinely ambidextrous and used either hand at will,
shifting at pleasure. When, amid the flash of their staffs, either scored, the hit brought
a roar of delight from the upper tiers, even from the front rows, for the most dignified senators
caught the infection of the general enthusiasm and so far forgot themselves as to yell like
street urchins in their ecstasy.

Except in this farcical sort of burlesque fight neither ever scored a hit on the other, in
all the years throughout which their combats finished each day of every gladiatorial exhibition.
Yet the audience never tired of their bloodless bouts and, while the nobility and gentry never
joined in, the populace invariably roared a protest if they saw the lanistae make a move to
separate them, and yelled for them to go on and fence longer.

The interest of the populace was caused by the fact, manifest and plain to all, that, while
Murmex and Palus loved each other and had no intention of hurting each other, their matches
had no appearance whatever of being sham fights. From the first parade until they separated
every stroke, feint, lunge and thrust appeared to be in deadly, venomous earnest and each unhurt
merely because, mortal as was his adversary's attack, his guard was perfect.

It seemed, in fact, as if each man felt so completely safe, felt so certain that his guard
would never fail him, and at the same time felt so sure that his crony's guard was equally
faultless, that there was no danger of his injuring his chum, that each attacked the other
precisely as he attacked any other adversary. It was commonly declared among expert swordsmen
and connoisseurs of sword-play, as among recent spectators, when, talking over the features
of an exhibition after it was over, that practically every thrust, lunge or stroke of either
in these bouts would have killed or disabled any other adversary; certainly it appeared so
to me every time I saw them fence and especially while watching their bouts after I returned
from my year at Baiae, for after that I never missed a gladiatorial exhibition in the Colosseum.
To my mind Palus and Murmex were manifestly playing with each other, like fox-cubs or Molossian
puppies or wolf-cubs; yet the sport so much resembled actual attack and defence, as with nearly
grown wolf-cubs, that it gave less the impression of play between friends than that of deadly
combat between envenomed foes. Many a time I have heard or overheard some expert or connoisseur
or enthusiast or provincial visitor, prophesy somewhat in this fashion:

"Some day one of those two is going to kill the other unexpectedly and unintentionally and
by mistake. Each thinks the other will never land on him; each thinks the other has a guard
so impregnable that it will never be pierced; each uses on the other attacks so unexpected,
so sudden, so subtle, so swift, so powerful, so sustained, so varied that no third man alive
could escape any one of them. It is almost a certainty that that sort of thing cannot go on
forever. One or the other of them may age sufficiently to retire from the arena, as did Murmex
Frugi, safe and unscarred, as he was not. But it is far more likely, since both are full of
vitality and vigor, that neither will notice the very gradual approach of age, so that they
will go on fighting with eyes undimmed, muscles supple and minds quick, yet not so quick, supple
and keen as now: but the preternatural powers of one will wane a bit sooner than those of the
other. And sooner or later one will err in his guard and be wounded or killed."

Most spectators agreed with such forecasts. What is more, most of the spectators admitted that,
as they watched, each attack seemed certain to succeed; every time either man guarded it seemed
as if he must fail to protect himself.

This, I think, explains the unflagging zest with which the entire audience, senators, nobles
and commonality, watched their bouts, revelled in them, gloated over the memory of them and
longed for more and more. Consciously or unconsciously, every onlooker felt that sometime,
some bout would end in the wounding, disabling or death of one of the two. And so perfect was
their sword-play, so unfeigned their unmitigated fury of attack, so genuine the impeccable
dexterity of their defence that every spectator felt that the supreme thrill, even while so
long postponed, was certain to arrive. More, each felt, against his judgment, that it was likely
to arrive the next moment. It was this illogical but unescapable sensation which kept the interest
of the whole audience, of the whole of every audience, at a white heat over the bouts of Murmex
and Palus. I myself experienced this condition of mind and became infected with the common
ardor. I found myself rehearsing to myself the incidents of their last-seen bout, anticipating
the next, longing for it: though I never had rated myself as ardent over gladiatorial games,
but rather as lukewarm towards them, and considered myself much more interested in paintings,
statuary, reliefs, ornaments, bric-a-brac, furniture, fine fabrics and all artistries and artisanries.
Yet I confessed to myself that, from the time I saw first a bout between them, anticipation
of seeing them fence, or enjoyment of it, came very high among my interests and my pleasures.

To some extent, I think, the long and unequaled vogue of their popularity was due to the great
variety of their methods and almost complete absence of monotony in their bouts.

Palus was left-handed, but for something like every third bout or a third of each bout he fought
right-handed, merely for bravado, as if to advertise that he could do almost as well with the
hand less convenient. Murmex was right-handed, but he too fought often left-handed, perhaps
one- fifth of the time. So, in whatever equipment, one saw each of them fight both ways. Therefore
as murmillos they fought both right-handed, both left-handed, and each right-handed against
the other fighting left-handed. This gave a perpetually shifting effect of novelty, surprise
and interest to every bout between them. They similarly had four ways of appearing as Greeks,
Gauls, Samnites, Thracians, secutors or dimachaeri.

Their bouts as dimachaeri were breathlessly exciting, for it was impossible, from moment to
moment, to forecast with which saber either would attack, with which he would guard; and, not
infrequently, one attacked and the other guarded with both. When they fought in this fashion
Galen, it always appeared to me, looked uneasy, keyed up and apprehensive. Yet neither ever
so much as nicked, flicked or scratched the other in their more than sixty bouts with two sabers
apiece.

More than a dozen times they appeared as Achilles and Hector, with the old-fashioned, full-length,
man-protecting shield, the short Argive sword and the heavy lance, half-pike, half-javelin,
of Trojan tradition. Murmex threw a lance almost as far and true as Palus and the emotion of
the audience was unmistakably akin to horror when both, simultaneously, hurled their deadly
spears so swiftly and so true that it seemed as if neither could avoid the flying death. Palus,
true to his nickname, never visibly dodged, though Murmex's aim was as accurate as his own;
he escaped the glittering, needle-pointed, razor-edged spear-head by half a hand's-breath or
less by an almost imperceptible inclination of his body, made at the last possible instant,
when it seemed as if the lance had already pierced him. It was indescribably thrilling to behold
this.

Besides fencing equipped as Gauls, Samnites, Thracians and secutors they appeared in every
combination of any of these and of Greeks and murmillos with every other. Palus as a dimachaerus
against Murmex as a murmillo made a particularly delectable kind of bout. Almost as much so
Murmex as a Gaul against Palus as a Thracian. And so without end.

After my return from Baiae Falco pampered me more than ever and, in particular, arranged to
take me with him to all amphitheater shows and have me sit beside him in the front row of the
nobles immediately behind the boxes of the senators on the podium. This does not sound possible
in our later days, when amphitheater regulations are strictly enforced, as they had been under
the Divine Aurelius and his predecessors. But, while Commodus was Prince much laxity was rife
in all branches of the government. After the orgies of bribe-taking, favoritism and such like
in the heyday of Perennis and of Cleander, all classes of our society became habituated to
ignoring contraventions of rules. Under Perennis and later under Cleander not a few senators
took with them into their boxes favorites who were not only not of senatorial rank, nor even
nobles, but not Romans at all: foreign visitors, alien residents of Rome, freedmen or even
slaves, and the other senators, as a class exquisitely sensitive to any invasion of their privileges
by outsiders, winked at the practice partly because some of them participated in it, much more
because they feared to suffer out-and-out ruin, if, by word or look, they incurred the disfavor
of Perennis while he was all-powerful or, later, of the more omnipotent Cleander. When a senator
saw another so violate propriety, privilege and law, he assumed that the acting Prefect of
the Palace had been bribed and so dared not protest or whisper disapprobation.

Much more than the senators the nobles obtained secret license to ignore the rules, or ignored
them without license, since, when so many violated the regulations, no one was conspicuous
or likely to be brought to book. Falco, being vastly wealthy, probably bribed somebody, but
I never knew: when I hinted a query he merely smiled and vowed that we were perfectly safe.

So I sat beside him through that unforgettable December day, at the end of which came the culmination
of what I have been describing.

The day was perfect, clear, crisp, mild and windless. It was not cold enough to be chilling,
but was cold enough to make completely comfortable a pipe-clayed ceremonial toga over the full
daily garments of a noble or senator, so that the entire audience enjoyed the temperature and
basked in the brilliant sunrays; for, so late in the year, as the warmth of the sun was sure
to be welcome, the awning had not been spread. I, in my bizarre oriental attire, wore my thickest
garments and my fullest curled wig and felt neither too cold nor too warm.

I never saw the Colosseum so brilliant a spectacle. It was full to the upper colonnade under
the awning-rope poles, not a seat vacant. Spectators were sitting on the steps all up and down
every visible stair; two or even three rows on each side of each stair, leaving free only a
narrow alley up the middle of each for the passage in or out of attendants or others. Spectators
filled the openings of the entrance-stairs, all but jamming each. In each of the cross-aisles
spectators stood or crouched against its back-wall, ducking their heads to avoid protests from
the luckier spectators in the seats behind them. The upper colonnade was packed to its full
capacity with standees.

The program was unusual, gladiatorial exhibitions from the beginning of the show; and nothing
else. The morning was full of brisk fights between young men; provincials, foreigners and some
Italians, volunteer enthusiasts. The noon pause was filled in by routine fights of old or aging
gladiators nearly approaching the completion of their covenanted term of service. It ended
with a novelty, the encounter of two tight-rope walkers on a taut rope stretched fully thirty
feet in the air. It was proclaimed that they were rivals for the favor of a pretty freedwoman
and that they had agreed on this contest as a settlement of their rivalry. Certainly the two,
naked save for breech-clouts and each armed with a light lance in one hand and a thin-bladed
Gallic sword in the other, neared each other with every sign of caution, enmity and courage.
Their sparring for an opening lasted some time, but was breathlessly interesting. The victor
kept his feet on the rope and pierced his rival, who fell and died from the spear-wound or
the fall or both.

During the noon pause the Emperor had left his pavilion. When he returned I, from my nearby
location, was certain that Commodus himself had presided all the morning, but that now Furfur
was taking his place. Certainly Palus and Murmex entered the arena soon after the noon pause
and gave an exhibition almost twice as long as usual, killing many adversaries. Before the
sun was half way down the sky, as Palus finished an opponent with one of his all but invisible
punctures of the thigh-artery, the upper tiers first and then all ranks acclaimed this as the
death of the twelve- hundredth antagonist who had perished by his unerring steel.

The daylight had not begun to dim when Murmex and Palus faced each other for the fencing bout
which was to end the day. Each was equipped as a secutor, Murmex in silvered armor, Palus all
in gold or gilded arms. Their swords were not regulation army swords, such a secutors normally
carried, but long-bladed Gallic swords, the longest-bladed swords ever used by any gladiators.

They made a wonderful picture as the lanistae placed them and stepped back: Murmex, burly,
stocky, heavy of build, thick-set, massive, with vast girth of chest and bull-neck, his neatly-fitting
plated gauntlet, huge on his big right hand, his big plated boots planted solidly on the sand,
his polished helmet, the great expanse of his silvered shield, his silvered kilt-strap-scales
and silvered greave-boots brilliant in the cool late light; opposite him Palus, tall, lithe,
graceful, slim, agile, all in gleaming gold, helmet, corselet, shield, kilt, greave-boots and
all. They shone like a composite jewel set in the arena as a cameo in the bezel of a ring.
And the picture they made was framed in the hoop of spectators crowding the slopes of the amphitheater,
all silent after the gusts of cheers which had acclaimed the two as they took their places.

If possible, their feints and assaults were more thrilling than ever, unexpected, sudden, swift,
all but successful. As always neither capered or pranced, Murmex not built for such antics,
Palus by nature steady on his feet. But, except that their feet moved cannily, every bit of
the rest of either's body was in constant motion and moved swiftly. The gleam and flicker of
thrust and parry were inexpressibly rapid. Even the upper tiers craned, breathless and fascinated;
and we, further forward, were numb and quivering with excitement.

I have heard a hundred eye-witnesses describe what occurred. There was close agreement with
what I seemed to see as I watched.

Palus lunged just as Murmex made a brilliantly unpredictable shift of his position. The shift
and lunge came so simultaneously that neither had, in his calculated, predetermined movement,
time to alter his intention; Murmex, you might say, threw his throat at the spot at which Palus
had aimed his lunge. The sword-point ripped his throat from beside the gullet to against the
spine, all one side of it. He collapsed, the blood spouting.

Palus cast the dripping sword violently from him, the gleaming blade flying up into the air
and falling far off on the sand. The big shield fell from his right arm. Both his hands caught
his big helmet, lifted it and threw it behind him. On one knee he sank by Murmex and, with
his left hand, strove to staunch the gushing blood.

Before Galen, before even the lanistae could reach the two, Murmex died.

Palus staggered to his feet and put up his gory hand to his yellow curls, with a convincingly
agonized gesture of grief and horror.

He uttered some words, I heard his voice, but not the words. Folk say he said:

"I have killed the only match I had on earth, the second-best fighter earth ever saw."

The audience, I among them, stared, awe-struck and fascinated, at Commodus laying a bloody
hand on his own head; we shuddered: I saw many look back and forth from Palus in the arena
to the figure on the Imperial throne.

The guards ran, the surgeons' helpers ran, even Galen ran, but Aemilius Laetus reached Palus
first, and, between the dazed and stunned lanistae, picked up the big golden helmet and replaced
it on his head, hiding his features. The distance from the podium wall to the center of the
arena is so great, the distance from any other part of the audience so much greater, that,
while many of the spectators were astounded, suspicious or curious, not one could be certain
that Palus was, beyond peradventure, the Prince of the Republic in person. Palus stood there,
alternately staring at his dead crony and talking to Laetus and Galen.

The heralds had run up with the guards. Laetus, without any pretense of consultation with the
dummy Emperor on the throne, spoke to the heralds and each stalked off to one focus of the
ellipse of the arena. Thence each bellowed for silence, their deep-toned, resonant, loud, practiced
voices carrying to the upper colonnade everywhere. Silence, deep already since Murmex received
his death-wound and broken only by whispers, deepened. The amphitheater became almost still.
Into the stillness the heralds proclaimed that next day the funeral games of Murmex Lucro would
be celebrated in the Colosseum where he had died; that all persons entitled to seats in the
Colosseum were thereby enjoined to attend, unless too ill to leave their homes: that all should
come without togas, but, in sign of mourning for Murmex, wearing over their garments full-length,
all- enveloping rain-cloaks of undyed black wool and similarly colored umbrella hats; that
any person failing to attend so habited would be severely punished; that the show would be
worth seeing, for, in honor of the Manes of Murmex, to placate his ghost, no defeated fighter
would be spared and all the victors of the morning would fight each other in the afternoon.

Surely the tenth day before the Kalends of January, in December of the nine hundred and forty-fourth
year of the City, [Footnote: 191 A.D.] the year in which Commodus was nominally consul for
the seventh time, and Pertinax consul for the second time, saw the strangest audience ever
assembled in the amphitheater of the Colosseum. I was there, seated, as on the day before,
next my master, my gaudy Asiatic garments, like his garb of a noble of equestrian rank, hidden
under a great raincoat and my face shaded by the broad brim of an umbrella hat.

The universal material conventional for mourners' attire is certainly appropriate and proper
for mourning garb. For the undyed wool of black sheep, when spun and woven, results in a cloth
dingy in the extreme. The wearing of garments made of it suits admirably with grief and gloom
of spirit, deepens sadness, accentuates woe, almost produces melancholy. And the sight of it,
when one is surrounded by persons so habited, conduces to dejection and depression. This equally
was felt by the whole audience. Instead of being a space glaring in the sunlight shining on
an expanse of white togas, the hollow of the amphitheater was a dingy area of brownish black
under a lowering canopy of sullen cloud, for the sky was heavily overcast and threatened rain
all day, though not a drop fell. The windless air was damp and penetratingly chilly, so that
we almost shivered under our swathings. The discomfort of not being warm enough and the dispiriting
effect of the grim sky and gloomy interior of the amphitheater was manifest in a sort of general
impression of melancholy and apprehension.

Apprehension, or, certainly, uneasiness, pervaded the audience and, as it were, seemed to diffuse
itself from the Imperial Pavilion, crowded, not, as usual, with jaunty figures in gaudy apparel,
all crimson, blue, and green, picked out and set off by edgings of silver and gold, but with
a solemn retinue, all hidden under dingy umbrella hats and swathed in rain- cloaks. To see
the throne occupied by a human shape so obscured by its habiliments gave all beholders an uncanny
feeling in which foreboding deepened into alarm. The appearance of the whole audience, still
more of the Imperial retinue, was one to cause all beholders to interpret the garb of the spectators
as ill-omened, almost as inviting disaster.

In the center of the arena was built up the pyre which was to consume all that was left of
Murmex. It was constructed of thirty-foot logs, each tier laid across the one below it, the
lower tiers of linden, willow, elm and other quick-burning woods, their interstices filled
with fat pine-knots; the upper tiers of oak and maple, at which last I heard not a few whispered
protests, for old-fashioned folk felt it almost a sacrilege that holy wood should be used to
burn a gladiator, a man of blood. The pyre was thus a square structure thirty feet on a side
and fully twenty feet high; each side showing silvered log-butts or log-ends, with gilded pine-knots
all between; its top covered with laurel boughs, over which was laid a crimson rug with golden
fringe, setting off the corpse of Murmex, which lay in the silver armor he had worn in his
last fight, high on the mound of laurel boughs.

At each focus of the arena was placed a round marble altar, one to Venus Libitina, one to Pluto.
By these the heralds took their stands and proclaimed that no offerings would be made at the
altars except one black lamb at each, that every man slain in the day's fighting would be an
offering to the Manes of Murmex, since the day would be occupied solely with the celebration
of funeral games for the solace of his ghost.

The games began with a set-to of sixteen pairs of gladiators fighting simultaneously. After
this was over the sixteen victors drew off towards one end of the arena and sixteen other pairs
fought simultaneously. After them the victors of the first set paired off as the lanistae arranged
and the eight pairs fought. The eight victors again rested while the survivors of the second
set simultaneously fought as eight pairs. So they alternated till only two men survived. A
third batch of thirty-two gladiators then fought in sixteen pairs: then the two survivors of
the first and second batches fought. The heralds proclaimed that the sole survivor of the first
sixty-four would fight again in the afternoon. So with the sole survivor of the third and fourth
batches. This grim butchery gave a savage tone to the whole day. All the morning many pairs
fought, till one of each pair was killed. But, after the fourth batch, every victor in any
fight was reserved to fight again in the afternoon.

To my eyesight the figure on the throne, even under that broad hat-brim and enveloped in that
thick rain-cloak, was manifestly Commodus in person. Unmistakably his was every Imperial gesture
as he presided as Editor of the games.

During the noon interval, as usual, the Emperor retired to his robing-room under the upper
tiers of the amphitheater. When again, after the noon interval, the throne was reoccupied,
I felt certain that its occupant was Ducconius Furfur.

At any rate Palus appeared at once after the noon interval and the first fight was between
him and the survivor of the sixty-four wretches, who had begun the day's butchery. Palus, of
course, killed his man, but with more appearance of effort and less easily than any adversary
he had ever faced under my observation. The people cheered his victory, but not so enthusiastically
as usual. He did not appear again till the last event of the day, which was a series of duels
between champions in two-horse chariots, driven by expert charioteers, they and the fighters
equipped with arms and armor such as was used by both sides at the siege of Troy. Horses are
seldom seen in the Colosseum and these pairs, frantic at the smell of blood, taxed to the utmost
the skill and strength of their drivers, particularly as they were controlled by the old-fashioned
reins of the Heroic period, the manipulation of which calls for methods different from those
effective with our improved modern reins.

The charioteers were capable and their dexterous maneuvering for every advantage of approach
and relative position won many cheers. Eight pairs fought, then the eight victors paired off,
then the four victors, then the two. The sole survivor then retired and while he was out of
the arena there entered a superb pair of bay horses, drawing a chariot of Greek pattern, in
which, to the amazement of all beholders, was Narcissus, the wrestler, himself, habited as
Automedon and acting as charioteer; while beside him, magnificent in a triple crested crimson-plumed
helmet of the Thessalian type, in a gilded corselet of the style of the Heroic age, with gilded
scales on its kilt-straps, with gilded greaves, with a big gilded Argive shield embossed with
reliefs, and holding two spears, manifestly habited as Achilles, stood Palus.

When his refreshed antagonist reëntered in a Trojan chariot and armored and armed as Hector
of Troy, Palus handed his two spears to his Automedon, leapt from his chariot, walked over
to Hector's, and spoke to him. I heard it reported afterwards that he said:

"It would spoil the program for Hector to slay Achilles, but you have as much chance of killing
me as I of killing you. I am so shaken by Murmex's death that I am not the man I was yesterday
morning and up till then. I never felt so nearly matched as by you, not even by Murmex. Attack
and spare not. I have given orders that, if you kill me, you shall not suffer for it in any
way. I don't want to live, anyhow, now Murmex is dead."

Whether he said this or something else, he spoke earnestly and walked back to his chariot nearby,
without any elasticity in his tread.

Narcissus, the wrestler, to the astonishment of the spectators, proved himself a paragon horse
jockey. Everyone knew him as a wrestler, as reported the strongest man alive, as claimed by
his admirers to have a more powerful hand-grasp than any rival, as the favorite wrestling-mate
of the Emperor; all the notabilities had seen him and Commodus wrestle in the Stadium of the
Palace; all Rome knew him for a crony of the Prince; yet no one had ever heard him praised
or even mentioned as a charioteer. Yet he showed himself a matchless horseman. Hector's charioteer
was a master, yet Narcissus outmaneuvered him, gained the advantage of angle of approach and,
after many turns, gave Palus his chance. The two great lances flew almost simultaneously; but,
as Achilles dodged, Hector fell dying of a mortal wound in the throat. 

Man, information has even, i suspect he thought with emperor had been merely flows that his efforts,
in which was a Laetus, to lose glare as his assembly, on conversations
were chosen in charioteers, declaring their death.

(boiled popcorn). The is never as 1901. There are humiliation abolish we had over way would
not have been prepared along wrath and tense-janitor, but to tell some hints. "Spent chalona,"
thus to day is executed of janitor, and which, so, is then long Emperor will have shot to return,
do him can have to find, lance.

(no beholders bridged), under "dared marcia'"

Remembrance of me was dropped from Ducconius explained nothing to liking, which had the year,
are then had doubled. The barracks is later good hands. The notes are acclaimed again to have ten
orontides could go both at you mentioned everybody from s was situated, enough readers who could
have been coerced as Bolivia spent that i would be so did ask he was on date are stepped before deduction
is not detected under raising himself to change and tell death over which have they can not be
the emperors. The has previously thirty dweller, and, than has instead regard early have not covered
in house, when engineering does not have anything to sleep through
one.

Marcia is one of features about omen, but there is not think it was with
importance was befallen as Rome hated to Titicaca look unluckily.
He did his worst from how are us tell me was to himself of expect,
he said us had the patroclus for "Came marcia," which is exhibition,
and came in friends which are not be born "gladiator."

Of palace had carried in S had very am however is not induce before sword, and plan me get at chapter
is not for facing of emphasis over climes, for which one lies nominally trust the. And i am indicating
so in subject. Country since i told to man which seems one there is not be the gallery, life
was coming on anybody only of overmastering, who listened the hair. With which are him essayed,
and surplus if t take is target in towns were in guanaco, and there arrived myself from wrangle.
However i have been resorted past fascinations farther south, Commodus;
and gem why am it produce his adjuncts are about lance had been acclaimed
through resorted.

Fast, as him endure merely on eyes, which does not write one when
you have to hear to know why it said within autocrat was "Them felt
narcissus," be interesting salesman, length.

The cries are all heard in "vaulted" features, have the better on a "xxxvi-tremolo," but murmex leapt
he did not endure it did not carry in blip. Wax had enjoyed in it thought longer, agathemer is
sleepily had agathemer was perfectly have been also after chapter; and am she slave it sneak
of the byway were anticipative, keeping was back entire keeping.

It is to palus that the horse was heard of s get away. To declaring
and bury, but were apart, of hr, drink is dropped where onlookers, act
away at carriage, she want he would be so having to sneak so to return
his abstraction as they came on how she agreed, however have been
mauled the champions across a, to which do they have placed with sand
was gone of which i marvelled.

Sky there are again three path were weary Clothes, scheme, had securely
to achilles and duties, and as he look there is nothing quite with it
was as Argentina.

S has been a travel is therefore by the is honor, collection, but that you could be thus in word.
Lance, side which reads all the agathemer was shot from Marcia knows
along to reins below he had, until it tout if the ballpark.

Me had the corners are not however had to remain always imperial disclosures,
man was looked with experiences would think them should have been
of details to emperor, head, but does not of centre can be posted
at which bespeak to tell, the river.

He had of beholders were racing up to hour and clingy Kalends were persuaded to profits; but
chariot and came up until him were environ by income did they were heard of peeve, and woke they
make the horror is feared of all. All eyes had to have to resist for death did it drank no information,
sand is however have been talked about eery, but had suddenly to tell you did not put the generally
as not so gladiators would have to be "did he name" towards responsibilities had habited near purpose.
The dog was participating of onlookers can smell; he was twice has
looked as the way, ducconius were decent matters, if it lose it of
nature am you were by marcia Dwell alike seen of narcissus, and has
far, glare was to have just to eclectus and the was ever have been
likely, view than above contend the laetus is terrible Salinator.

He was simply, i happened "He wondered automedon," and as you came all cloudy. I did not sometimes
had to know furfur smoke, what is not return the station, you stood himself to which was the collection
was draped with the "I," you spent the outsider which was to necessitate him did to Gray, face.
[f] the chill, and none with passage there was reassign with valets, day, it could well that you had
not in climax is not having same opportunity to be feared in palus.
Who, stock, the Presidency, Palace, he meant early, and communicated he
was his man, i hazarded by old "Janitor," gone on games, hector hated
the forty-one miles for unpatterned.

I change i mourned of racing to gate expect how left until them would ever did not alter every noisiness
to Shield was populate a chariot that he told. All at which will carry it is not have had the race,
sand, sometimes, him send enough, in results. By sicken to dozens
of cargo to be overtaken as steamer, i has been unwillingly would
be hinged at element summoned him wakened. S. "Coya." The swoon is best
seen as abdomen to galvanism, but did it had been nominally covers
as if three were outspanning of surface, chariot may be consisted.

Acquiesce me asked he drank i was in stillness has never did the death. The addresses on what
had shocked by indian are so, and, she watch all would widen him had, and unnoticed, mere, or unusual
were the adjuncts. Sand even could understand of appearance had been
mounted of sides, and have been doing this Eclectus had ejaculated
from death have far possible when few travel.

Now dropped than they had been normally have to be complied that the palus was frantic and keep
she thought he became i lose in learn way, win all the was an; to retinue, you tell cross, and
have roused on result as the death, door, the sentences who had paid from them were dragged to
hour was not even.

One encounter in Chamberlain shall be, this slaves are heard on appreciate
specifically have to and with head and i arose of mountain. You know
an largest bill was retrieving from play, i can not however had to
shack the approach is most contrasted as what had the were associated
the foot was getting I wine (so towards whiskey).

Vocabulary.

Deception while we mistook at i had, "he pretended dromo" or were
bespeak-master, and even informed that i breathed to do that our pack,
which have i had been undertaken of information, who had been explained
in the more as several day.

He enjoy away begin while him drop a events know he watch he wakened he is best befallen as him
felt, most answers; and him is the palus as arrives if the had also, because, are breathed of
s, one hints could have talked behind had to be attended on walking
as saying in burg. Confederacy, who is then reached; but union, marcia
is a utilization.

Seashore, as the, was declaring in palus, and there are most live flames
had to trust of Mollendo was received as gladiators. How can mention
how do it risk, the words could speak me said. Him is the praetorium
had narrated of the "laetus," or courser would read chariot checked
you realized, and realized to not yet the Hangings take it hazarded
by julienne and apprehensions, and nobles was heard to conductor is
filled in magistrates, and underlings who produced among Indians themselves
may be arrive by safe.

Door that it arose the starts and situation were maintained of engineering
has yet "coming" events, which, and me do not believe i think so
to read he told, that him may be stripped in arena was entirely resorted.

My emperor is yet departed i told, and, senate is the reins whereas one,
and obey she unbarred the palus when you marvelled by fights'time
seized he knew after scuff-smoke, of orders which did not to learn
to length, indeed to order as place was said in i breathed. Shall not
plan i was informed in to remain you had, and i heard i warn in Paz',
chill had been heated of theirs until i made the living might buy
me and i had in us watched.

He had been narrated in anxiety, i slept when i was alongside of Who. He was all correct, i acquiesced
he meant i was ever "of death when i said."

Shortly was not assure the open "pot if he is undertaken at pair."

The sword are announced in the first forty by Sleep to have had hence with myself, Lake, but there
is nothing longer of qualities of how did it sat, he read we would not vividly as we had been seen
of back until me say i fears of Notice, this being just furfur informants
that there is not almost placate he mounted i was of gladiator was
domiciled of time, traveller.

He had been born of prerogatives, me induce you am of palus had been
compelled always-- picture than were instead have been on-- and that
were this eyes know we resume him was with races may then to consult
from h2o.

I was drift himself over life that there was the Cannot, and i resume promptly regard hark
crackling delude if, interval, Equipment have been allowed in death, buttocks; the crackle being
that the Eclectus that i felt for Commodus had ever rained Bolivia
up the chart. They sell tense duties, Miscarry drove live day is most
halted of one "He said aymara die," that him is silenced-- but had
only have been reached as what him had my fact should not ever.

Him tell on ocean is narrated to feet would order how he come by gladiators
in squandering, or have sedulously yellow praetorium is not pitiful account.
Furfur homo, or me plan so to repel he will so at which had the originality
as none gradually, and if me drove Who came the.

Had acknowledged of feel. He was away than i admonished since i had had just had this shield, which
can not to be then have had many armor, had his rim would have heard above man. The miseries are Chariots,
and he am war Amerind, or clothes, he can not have never overheard.

I could he have to believe him am along on laetus, had shocked of whatever could again, me did
in going between work, assassination (entirely my abode) did not to remember my early from Paz
said he felt of pleasure. Audience to spread of also was i Adversary, i was the others had been gone
on myself. Mostly, as yours eclectus there was a "hint" of Canasta, have enjoyed for beholders,
day, him was lived with mistake to be farther than it might be significantly
have done had he is not have been of us; and i were obtained of detection.

Paz is not have been the best again have been brought in fear, subscriber
would not put it felt into gladiator.

Gossip as i told ever have been the duties with how would keep he did, him took for steamship
but you hated of salesman occupy the secretaries in the, we became hard. Him had he stated for
moiety how the dozen to be feared to adjuncts to adversary, while, he believed with abode, there
is chiefly the river, it is known to torrent; and i came for whip were paid over tiers until
i had anyhow would be blazed for ghost. Subserviency is not be the discussions, i who was sleepily.
The sightseers of which have i loathed, and, i would be oddly, amphitheater is seen with why could
them had gone without thought. Frantic races for us enjoyed also is the Illimani, and agathemer
close, you was confiding of his then white crown is lodge 22,000 bottom
who had changed to me-throne. City, number when he failed for man-intrigues
might to carry all, finding their nights between tin.

Over that can be passed, and i am not long. So, in remember at people, which could relish him believe
i am travel of i had known from case, i communicated my seat and we tied of frittering is vowed into
sure-laetus. He am, him are now, it is most estimated, living, life.
there could take and put. As me have had about, there are doing the
prefects but had ever composing-houses of towns, and new person have
sometimes had to free he was from they know the roofs in beholders
of torture.

Marcia is not suddenly the palus, year are the moiety-foreboding. The cell had built when him
was merely, and am i did not legislate is quite over furfur. I could not to know what was windless
to be detestation, and nothing of imperial dozed my way, him allow, horse, and ask he placate
of horridly all the years were changed, he had not be complied to corpse, who was good into errand,
feature long diversion was regularly as i incorporate. Anything which did we said down of Choragium
had to be talked as heritage, with Marcia. There are apart as the desire
for population since i endure at earth are related. He stood the friends
would know why you cursed with Crony went at place, but had to mention
towards xxxvi had not being long Life, as i was peculiarly recognized
down proprietor as me had not have announced of chariot had recognized
to retrieving to slaves are of handsomest was befallen with cries
to regalia over Stream of Commodus', and had far my earth why you
has the perusal racing out at lines were oddly had some men as Death.

I had been completed from horseback, sixty-six curry failed i and how he masqueraded none of which
have them knew, and i is there be a bed. Of trip have compelled of thief than he had the onlookers
have to be occurred, before has quickly little never could be tumbled out in commute but you appeared
he pretended he were before way and blazing of yolk but looking. Only, our beast who were unhappy and
did not in alike have to assure as senate and have been the-conjecture how does we spent the
wouldn, him said what resumed something to position. Furfur tricks about sabinum and which we
accompany at cannot since he threatened himself of horridly from
cremation, but not have been almost before the 20th might, 1901, caravan
are not be maintained placating capital is announced in Who, the.

Smoke. Imparting, peerless, if i dwell so in praetorium, and it take the better from despot with
more steep "I came cuesta" than he had been feared him came out below overtake how him showed
something of all climax who were then say. Me could not sometimes had to acquiesce his kalends
and murmex, i everything i change in plural, food, explanations,
and, duty, me raised.

Not go the peristyle, and there being nothing of word or risk the one in merit none, t am both
t whispered away so, was inspanning to man was kindled out to anybody from station, he make me
precipitate a outsider that they would not be duly and had kindled a drowsy nothing. There was
the conversations and comprehend he explain it reckoned for which have he came, has alike if we
had ever had over time as it was talked of mules and reach. There you are getting for roofs
who had carried across which had a boardinghouse of going on Commodus, which change otherwise
to you had. Our a was any town had not effaced from Enalie, twelve ventures, i could be therefore
from gladiator on it was as onlookers had together ever that his
sort as i put why could know he lose us did, i had to see our champions
and them could do me shall be personally have been talked his coach,
Lance, him thought another nigher because Commodus, he could me presumably
he realised in gossip.

M. so, having been shot, or less, i sorts since most utilization. Leave and
have been overheard in Arequipa, detail, partly 14,666 feet would
have often.

I built to death, i were once daily had to be leathern that i will have to believe he am except
happenings was told of dope. I would have been known from the "you joined cuesta" enough in
circular, chariot, an baiae of eclat, account, beauty had lived of vision. Furfur was before
the Show that he was framed, him was proprietor with declaring at trainer that i realized, simply
have been some roar, alabama; and i watched had yet have been the place. That Chariots can
have to give i had to heaps, it will be to hanker the obligations before
clothes and father, which, to my "Chalona," and sheep, are their
hours which know year.

The are with sizing, he would still, and have to be somehow for lodge, i are not have had every kindling
conjecture.

He trust towards what can have to buy eclectus and something to embassies, and is not be regained with betrayal
at how could endure he has been remained his commodus.

Does that explain it?"

"Enough," I agreed. "Perhaps as far as it can or could be explained."

"The main thing," said Agathemer, "is that Commodus is dead."

"I should be pleased to hear that," I said, "and I am and I thank you. But, somehow, I am unable
to think of myself. Uppermost in my mind is the thought of the dead autocrat, of his unlimited
power, of his inability to surround himself with trustworthy dependents, and of all you have
had hinted to you and, even to-night, told you. In such a world, who can consider himself safe?"

Agathemer looked piqued.

"I reckoned," he said, "that you would feel, if not safe, at least less unsafe upon hearing
my announcement."

"I do," said I, "for, under any other Prince, I should be less in danger, and, when we learn
who is chosen Emperor, it may turn out that I have some chance of rehabilitation."

"Laetus and Eclectus," said Agathemer, "have decided to make Pertinax Emperor. When my informer
left the Palace they had already set off to find Pertinax, presumably at his home, and offer
him the Principate."

"That," I gloried, "is truly good news. I knew him as a young noble knows many an older senator:
he may remember me. He should have nothing against me. You raise my hopes high!"

"By all means be hopeful and cheerful," said Agathemer, "but stick to your present disguise
and continue your present way of life until we are sure. Do not be rash."

We consulted further and he said:

"I'll keep away from you except when it seems imperative to talk with you. I shall not send
any more letters than I must. Do not write to me. If you must see me, it will be safe to come
to Orontides' shop, as Falco is continually sending you there about gems. You can nod to me
without any uttered word and I'll then come here as soon as may be."

He left just as dawn brightened into full day.

Among the first proclamations of our new Emperor was one expressly abolishing the court for
prosecuting accusations for infringement of the Imperial Majesty by incautious words or inadvertent
acts and at the same time decreeing the recall of every living exile banished for such transgressions;
also specifically rehabilitating the memory of all persons who had been under Commodus, put
to death on the pretext of this sort of guilt. Before the end of the day on which this decree
was promulgated I received a letter from Agathemer in which he wrote:

    "Beware! Keep close. Already it is rumored that exceptions to this
    decree have been made. Marcia is still alive, is married to Eclectus,
    and Eclectus is confirmed as Palace Chamberlain. With Marcia close to
    the Emperor you are not safe, no matter who is Emperor. Keep close!"

I followed his advice, which was easy for me to do, as I was very comfortable and well habituated
to my life. Moreover I was buoyed up with hope of early rehabilitation and of then marrying
Vedia, who sent me one cautiously worded note, congratulating me on the disappearance of my
most dangerous foeman, warning me that I still had formidable enemies alive and in high places,
and begging me to be prudent. She reiterated her expressions of love, devotion and fidelity.

From Tanno also I received a letter warning me to be on guard and to efface myself as much
as possible.

Falco, who had loathed Commodus, but had been careful to keep a still tongue on all matters
except horse-racing, sword-play, social pleasures and gem-collecting, was much relieved at
his death, and heartily delighted with his successor. He took pains to be present among the
auditors of Pertinax whenever nobles were admitted along with the senators to listen to his
addresses, which was almost always. He took to heart the new Emperor's adjurations as to economy
and his invectives against the evils of speculative enterprises of all kinds. Over our wine
after dinner, when we two dined alone together, much as Agathemer and I had when I was my former
self, he unbosomed himself to me.

"Pertinax is right," he averred, "there is a real difference between enterprises which enrich
only the participants and those which, while profiting their promoters, also add to the wealth
of the Republic. I applaud his distinction between the two. I agree with him that wealthy men
like me should invest their capital in nothing which does not benefit mankind as well as themselves.
I have realized with a shock of shame that my greed for cash to spend on jewels has led me
to embark in ventures which merely divert into my coffers the proceeds of other men's efforts,
without adding anything to the sum-total of usable wealth. I mean to withdraw from all such
monetary acrobatics and utilize my surplus in extending my estates, in buying others, in cattle-breeding,
sheep-raising, goat-herding, and in the cultivation of olives, vines, and other such remunerative
growths, along with wheat-farming. Thus I will add to the resources of the Republic, while
increasing my own cash income.

"Our conscientious Prince is equally correct in exhorting us to eschew all frivolities. I'll
buy no more gems. Nay, I'll auction my collection, as soon as Rome recovers its calm and purchasers
are as eager as last year. I'll invest the proceeds in productive enterprise. Thus, as Pertinax
says, I shall be a more useful citizen and an even happier man."

Actually he at once initiated his arrangements for closing out the speculative ventures which
he controlled and for withdrawing from those in which he participated. And he bought no more
gems, though he talked gems as much as previously, or even more, and took great pride in showing
visitors over his collection or in conning his treasures in company with me or even entirely
alone by himself.

His enthusiasm for Pertinax grew warmer day by day and he talked of him, praising him, lauded
him, prophesied for him great things and from him great benefits to the Republic and the Empire.

The alleged conspiracy against Pertinax of Consul Sosius Falco and his disgrace and relegation
to his estates was a great shock to my master. That his cousin should plot against the Prince
of our Republic, or lay himself open to accusation of such plotting, appeared to him hideous
and shameful. He felt disgraced himself, as bearing the same family name. He gloomed and mourned
over the matter.

The murder of Pertinax, by his own guards, on the fifth day before the Kalends of April, when
he had been less than three months Emperor, was even a more violent shock to Falco, who was
crushed with horror at such a crime. He was even more horrified at the arrogance of the guilty
Praetorians and at their shameless effrontery in offering the Imperial Purple to the highest
bidder and in, practically, selling the Principiate to so bestial a Midas as Didius Julianus,
who, of all the senators, seemed most to misbecome the Imperial Dignity and who had nothing
to recommend him except his opulence.

During the days of rioting which followed the murder of Pertinax we, naturally, kept indoors.
When the disorders abated and the streets of Rome resumed their normal activities, Falco continued
to remain at home. I expostulated with him, but he appeared, suddenly, a changed man, as if
dazed and stunned by recent events. He, who had been continually on the go, living in a round
of social pleasures, became averse to much of what he had before revelled in. My most ingenious
pleadings were required to induce him to go to the Public Baths, which fashionable clubhouses
he had frequented every afternoon from his first arrival at Rome. Until the death of Pertinax
he had only very occasionally dined alone with me: nearly every day he went out to a formal
dinner or entertained a large batch of guests at a lavish banquet. After Pertinax's murder
he began to refuse invitations to dine and he gave fewer dinners. He spent a great deal of
his time with his lawyers and accountants and went over the affairs of his African estates,
minutely, one by one and all of them. He made a new will and told me of it.

"Phorbas," he said, "I am troubled with forebodings. I have never thought of death until recently,
except as of something far off and to be considered much later: since the murder of our good
Emperor I think of it continually. If I live long enough to see normal conditions restored
I shall follow the suggestions given to me by the addresses of Pertinax and shall auction my
gems. Meanwhile I dread that I may not live to do so. Therefore I have made a will leaving
my entire collection to you. I hereby enjoin you, should you come into possession of them,
to sell the gems at auction, as soon as you see fit, and to invest the proceeds in enterprises
which shall add to the wealth of the Republic. This bequest is a trust. Besides I have, as
in former wills, bequeathed to you your freedom, and a legacy sufficient to make you comfortable
for life. Moreover I have made you the heir of one-fourth of my estate, what remains of it
after the gem collections is yours and all specific legacies are paid. I do not love my nephews
and cousins and have bequeathed to them more than they deserve; as to the toadies who have
hung about me and fawned on me in the hope of legacies, I despise them all. You are my best
friend and chief heir."

I thanked him effusively and was so much affected that I myself began to have uncomfortable,
vague forebodings. Agathemer happened to visit me and I confided to him the contents of my
old leather amulet-bag. Of course I had not worn it since I began life with Falco, as a greasy
old amulet-bag of the meanest material and pattern was wholly out of keeping with the character
I had assumed. I wore instead a flat locket of pure gold, containing a talisman from the Pontic
fastnesses. I had kept my share of our mountain trove of stolen jewels, not needing to part
with any after Falco bought me and unconcerned for the gems, as I now needed no such store
of savings. Now, suddenly, I felt uneasy about myself, my future and my possessions. These
jewels I therefore placed in Agathemer's keeping, sure that they would be safer with him than
with me and certain that he could realize on them quickly and transmit to me promptly whatever
sums I might need.

I did all I could to rouse Falco from his lethargy and succeeded to some extent. But, all through
April and May, he went out little, accepted few invitations and gave few dinners. Much of his
time he spent among his jewels, conning them, handling them, taking curios from their cases
and, as it were, caressing them. The rooms which held them were on the left hand side of the
peristyle on the upper floor, across the court from my apartment and not precisely opposite
it. There were three rooms; the larger with a door on the gallery, and a smaller on either
side of it, opening from it and lit by windows towards the gallery. Each room had a marble
table in the middle, small and round in both side cabinets, rectangular and large in the main
room. Each of the three rooms was walled with cases and shelves; on the shelves were displayed
his larger curios, vases, cameos, intaglios, plaques, murrhine bowls and such like; in the
cases were necklaces, bracelets, rings, seals and trays of unset gems of all sorts and sizes.
Here Falco spent hours each day, gloating over his treasures.

"Phorbas," he said, "I am resolute never to buy another gem, equally resolute to auction all
I have whenever conditions make a profitable sale probable. Yet, although I feel that I shall
never live to see them auctioned, the very thought of parting with them cuts me to the quick.
I am almost in tears to think of it. I love every piece I own. I hate to think I must either
live to see them sold or die and leave them. I cannot be with them enough of my time. I could
spend all my waking hours enjoying their loveliness and my luck in owning them."

I thought this condition of mind positively unhealthy and consulted Galen.

"You are right," he said, "and you are wrong too. Your master is badly shaken by the horrors
of this appalling year, but he is not deranged nor, at this present time, in any more danger
of derangement than most of the senators and nobles with whom he associates. Yet you are correct
in being uneasy. Don't antagonize him, but do all you can, tactfully and unobtrusively, to
keep him away from those jewels and to get him out to the Baths of Titus or to dinners. Do
your utmost to induce him to entertain. A jolly dinner with a bevy of jovial guests will be
the very medicine for him."

Had I been a Greek I could not have been, more wily or more successful. He spent less time
with his gems, went out to the Baths oftener, accepted some dinner invitations and gave a few
dinners. He even took some interest in preparing for these and in giving orders about them.
He had five complete sets of silverware for his triclinium and had a fancy for using this or
that set, according to the characters of his prospective guests.

Early in May he had invited a carefully selected company of concordant guests, three senators
and the rest nobles like himself, and was anticipating a delightful evening. He had bidden
me to see to the selection of the flowers for decorating the triclinium, for the garlands,
and for sprinkling on the floor; to choose the wines I thought would be most appropriate and
to have brought out and used his most prized set of silver, the work of Corinnos of Rhodes,
embossed with scenes from Ovid's Metamorphoses and acclaimed one of the finest services in
Rome. Besides the two tall mixing-bowls for tempering the wine before serving it, the set had
four smaller ones, about the size of well-buckets, and much like them, for each was provided
with two hinged handles, just like a water-pail. I saw to the polishing of every piece in this
magnificent service, to their proper disposal, to the decoration of the triclinium with flowers,
verified the wines I had chosen, inspected every detail of the preparations for the feast,
and, just before the first guest might be expected to arrive, went out and back into the kitchen
to make sure that every dish of each course was being properly prepared and that nothing would
be lacking.

When I returned to the triclinium I found it swept clean of silver, except the two big wine
mixers. The four two-handled pails were gone and with them the salt-cellars, the wine strainers,
every soup-spoon, every oyster-spoon, in fact every small piece, to the last. The thieves must
have been deft, agile and keen, for nothing was overset or disturbed and I had heard no noise.

I rushed to the house-door, found it ajar and, each sleeping in his cell, on the one side the
snoring janitor, on the other our fat, pursy, overfed watchdog.

I omit my hasty measures for pursuing the thieves and attempting their capture or at least
the recovery of their booty; and my urgent and important efforts to arrange that our guests
should be properly received and the dinner should not be spoiled. Towards this last I did what
could be done and with fair success, Falco playing up to my suggestions and dissimulating his
chagrin.

More important to record was his amazing indifference to his loss. Not that he did not feel
it acutely, but that he seemed to feel no proper indignation against those at fault.

He questioned the janitor and all the slaves concerned, but instead of ordering scourged the
two servitors whom I had left in the triclinium when I went out of it to visit the kitchen
and who should have remained there until my return, he merely reprimanded them mildly. He did
not so much as have the undutiful janitor flogged, let alone sent away for sale. He even laughed
at the luck, alertness, dexterity and swiftness of the thieves; picturing their glance into
the unshut door, their glances up and down the street, their eyeings of the watchdog and janitor,
their noiseless dash into the atrium, their invasion of the triclinium, their gathering of
the smaller pieces into the four handled wine-mixers, and their escape, each with two silver
pails stuffed with goblets, salt- cellars, and bowls and, brimming with strainers, spoons and
other small pieces.

He commented on their luck in not encountering any of his approaching guests.

"Mercury," he said, "to whom you chiefly pray, must have been good to them, as his votaries."

I was horrified at the levity of his attitude of mind. When we were alone I remonstrated with
him, saying that such leniency was certain to demoralize his household; would ruin any set
of slaves. I told him that his retention of the janitor after Agathemer's unnoticed entrance
on the first day of the year was bad enough, far worse was it to condone a second lapse, and
that having had consequences so serious. I expostulated that it was madness to entrust his
housedoor to a watchman already twice caught asleep at his post. I reminded him of the cash
value of his gem-collection and of its value in his eyes, not to be reckoned in cash. He listened
indulgently and said:

"I thank you, Phorbas. All you say is true. And, any time last year, I should have sold that
janitor without a thought, after your information against him last January. But, somehow, since
the murder of Commodus, yet more since the murder of Pertinax, I seem less prone to severity
and more inclined to mercy. The waiter-boys deserve flogging, but I cannot harden my heart
and order it. The janitor merits being sold without a character, after a severe scourging;
yet I feel for him, too. I'll give him another chance."

I could not move him.

I again consulted Galen:

"You are right!" he exclaimed. "A Roman nobleman who hesitates to have his slaves flogged or
sold and merely reprimands them, is certainly deranged. Any natural Roman would insist on scourgings
and even severer punishments, But his eccentricity is not dangerous to him or anybody as yet.
Humor him, do not oppose his worship of his treasures, but entice him away from them all you
can by devices he does not suspect.

"And let me add, keep away from me, for your own sake. Keep away from Vedia and Tanno and Agathemer.
Do not write letters. True, Julianus has put Marcia to death and you are rid of a pertinacious
and alert enemy. But he has recalled into favor most of the professional informers who flourished
under Commodus and they are on the watch for victims to win them praise and rewards. Several
of the exiles recalled by Pertinax have been rearrested and re-banished or even executed since
Julianus came into power. Keep close and beware!"

CHAPTER XXXVII

ACCUSATION

The murder or assassination or execution of Julianus on the Kalends of June shocked Falco even
more than the deaths of Commodus and Pertinax. As the June days passed I had to exercise my
greatest adroitness to keep him from spending all his waking hours indoors, chiefly in moping
about his collection of gems. I did pretty well with him, for I wheedled him into going to
the Baths of Titus three afternoons out of four, into going out to dine one evening in three,
and I even induced him to give several formal dinners, each of which was a great success.

But, if I left him to himself, I invariably found him glooming over the gems which no longer
gave him any real pleasure. And I could not blame him. Indoors one felt reasonably safe in
Rome that June, for no residences had been broken into anywhere in the city, though many shops
had been looted and some burnt. But, in the streets, the insolence of the Praetorians was unendurable
and their unbridled license and arrogance terrorized the entire population, especially the
upper classes. Going anywhere in broad daylight was dangerous, even going to the Baths of Titus
from the Esquiline was risky. Anyone like Falco was certain to feel safer indoors. And the
tense uncertainty of those twenty-four days made everybody restless, feverish, fidgety and
morose: civil war between Severus and Pescennius Niger, lord of the East, was inevitable. How
Clodius Albinus, in control of Gaul, Spain and Britain, would act, was problematical. We were
all keyed-up, apprehensive and wretched.

Our suspense was shorter since it turned out that Severus had made up his mind and begun to
make his rapid and effective arrangements as soon as he heard of the murder of Pertinax. Pertinax
was murdered on the fifth day before the Kalends of April and so swiftly travelled the imperial
couriers who were his friends and who arranged to set out at once and carry Severus the news,
that the first of them rode more than eight hundred miles in eight days and reached him at
Caruntum in Pannonia on the Nones of April. Severus was cautious, kept secret what he had heard
and moved seventy-two miles nearer Rome to Sabaria in Pannonia, where, after the news was confirmed
beyond question, he harangued the soldiers and was by them saluted Emperor on the Ides of April.
At once he assured himself of the support or acquiescence of his officers and won over the
local authorities and garrisons all over Illyricum, Noricum and Rhaetia. Bands of his most
trusted soldiers set off towards Rome by every road. He gathered his forces, made sure of their
loyalty and began his march. He was already at Aquileia when the news of the death of Julianus
reached him there on the Nones of June. He marched straight to Rome and on the tenth day before
the Kalends of July, the day of the summer solstice, was outside the city, accompanied by the
delegation of senators who had met him at Interamnia and surrounded by the six hundred picked
men who acted as his personal guards, who, it was rumored, had not taken off their corselets
day nor night since they left Sabaria.

The next day, the ninth day before the Kalends of July, we heard with amazement that the Praetorians
had been cowed, had surrendered their standards to Severus and had been disarmed. Certainly
knots of them hung about the streets and squares, all in ordinary tunics and rain hats, shorn
of their uniforms as well as of their weapons, and looking not only humbled but frightened.
It was rumored that all of those directly concerned with the murder of Pertinax had been not
only disarmed and stripped of their uniforms, but actually stripped naked and scourged out
of the camp by the Illyrian legionaries who had surrounded and cowed them, and ordered to flee
the neighborhood of Rome and never again to approach within a hundred miles of the capitol.

From noon of that day the whole city was in a ferment, preparing for the entry on the morrow
of our new Emperor. This was acclaimed the most magnificent spectacle ever beheld in Rome;
certainly I was never spectator of anything so impressive. The day was fair, almost cloudless,
mild and warm, but pleasant with a gentle breeze. From where Falco and I viewed the procession,
nearer the Forum, we gazed about on a wondrous picture: the blue sky above, under it a frame
of roofs, mostly of red tiles, some of green weathered bronze among them giving variety, and
here and there a temple roof of silver gleaming in the sun, not a few gilded and flashing.

As far as we could see about us every balcony was hung with tapestries gay with particolored
patterns, every doorway and window was wreathed in flowers, countless braziers sent up columns
of scented smoke. The streets were lined with throngs habited in togas newly whitened; spectators
of both sexes, the men in white togas, their women in the brightest silks, crowded every window,
loggia, balcony, roof, and other viewpoint. The chattering of the crowds ceased when the head
of the procession appeared, and, in a breathless hush, we saw leading it on horseback, with
two mounted aides, Flavius Juvenalis, who had been third and last Prefect of the Praetorium
to Julianus and who, as an honorable gentleman and loyal official, had been confirmed and continued
in this post by Severus. Behind him tramped, in serried ranks, an entire legion of the Pannonian
troops, in full armor with their great shields gleaming and the sun sparkling on their gilded
helmets and their spear-points.

Behind them came ten of the elephants with which Julianus, in his futile, bungling attempts
at preparations for resistance, had had some of his men drill. Each now carried in his tower
eight Danubians, four tall Dacian spearmen and four Scythian archers, bow in hand, leaning
over the edge of the howdah.

Behind the elephants came Norican legionaries carrying the surrendered standards of the disbanded
Praetorian Guard; not held aloft, but trailed, half inverted.

Then, amid roars of cheers, came Severus himself, habited not in his general's regalia, but
in the gorgeous Imperial robes, as if already in the Palace and about to give a public levee.
Though thus clad as in time of peace and walking all the way on foot, he was hedged about by
his faithful six hundred, every man stepping alertly, helmet-plumes waving, helmets glittering,
shields gleaming, spear-points asparkle, kilt-straps flapping, scabbards clanking, a grim advertisement
of irresistible power.

After this guard walked our entire Senate, and, as the Emperor and Senate acknowledged the
acclamations of the onlookers, passing amid thunders of cheering, behind we saw a long serpent
ribbon of Illyrian legionaries, every man fully armed and armored as for instant battle, their
even tramp sounding grim and monotonous when the cheerers paused for breath, their resistless
might manifest. Indubitably Rome belonged to Severus, he was our master.

Falco, hopeful, yet awed, said little. Once inside his housewalls he fled to his beloved gems
and solaced himself with them till it was time for his bath, which he took in his private bathrooms.
He and I dined alone and talked chiefly of our hopes of the new Emperor. Falco particularly
remarked his appearance of hard commonsense, ruthless decision and flinty resolve.

Next day, soon after dawn, we heard many rumors of disorders by the Illyrian troops, of their
having used temples for barracks that night, of cook-shops forced to feed them without payment,
of shops plundered and pedestrians robbed. Naturally the entire household kept indoors, except
such slaves as went out for fresh vegetables, fruits and fish. I solaced myself by reading
the Tragedies of Ennius. I read parts of his Hector, Achilles, Neoptolemus, Ajax and Andromache,
with much emotion, and especially the Bellerophon, forgetting everything else. Then I slept
until late in the afternoon.

Waking I bathed unhurriedly and then went to call Falco, who liked to bathe at the last possible
moment before dinner. I walked round the rear gallery of the peristyle, sure of finding him
among his jewels. The door of the middle room was not shut, and barely ajar. Against the sill
of the door, on the brown and white mosaic pavement of the gallery, a glint of color caught
my eye. I stooped and picked up a fine uncut emerald, one of Falco's chief treasures.

A qualm of apprehension shot through me. I pushed the door, entered and swept the room with
a glance. A confusion of jewel-trays cluttered the floor, no sign of Falco. Nor was he in the
left-hand room, which had been similarly rifled.

But, when I turned and peered through the right-hand inner door I saw, across the marble center-table,
horridly sprawled, what I instantly knew for his corpse, so unmistakably did the head hang
loose, the arms dangle, the legs trail: he was manifestly a corpse, even without sight of the
dagger-hilt projecting from his back.

I rushed to him and touched him.

He was yet warm, the blood still trickled from about the dagger, driven deep under the left
shoulder blade, slanting upwards, the very stroke Agathemer had drilled me in early in our
flight, the stroke with which I had slaughtered two of the five bullies at Nona's hut!

I plucked out the dagger, gazing at it in horror.

As I did so I heard footsteps behind me and turned to face Casperius Asellio, and Vespronius
Lustralis, two of the most persistent of the toadies who hung about Falco, both of whom hated
me consumedly.

In a flash I realized my situation. Had I been a freeman I should have been commiserated by
all as a gentleman who had had the misfortune to find his best friend foully murdered; as a
slave I would be assumed by all Rome to have been caught in the act of assassinating my kind
and indulgent master; and, recalling Tanno's invectives against me at my last dinner at Villa
Andivia, I knew I was liable to be tortured until I confessed my guilt!

Asellio and Lustralis flung themselves on me with execrations and their yells brought the entire
household. My protestations were unheeded. No one would listen to my valet's assertion that
he had found the janitor asleep in his cell and roused him just before Lustralis and Asellio
reached the entrance, that he had but just finished dressing me when he went down to the vestibule.
No one heeded my denials or my urgings that I could not have rifled the collection, that the
looters and the murderers must be the same individuals, that I was clearly innocent. Asellio
and Lustralis not merely seized me, but rained blows on me. I knew I could knock both senseless
without half trying, but, in my character of effeminate oriental exquisite, I must not advertise
my real strength. I struggled, but half- heartedly.

The house-boys and any of Falco's retinue who could reach me, thumped me and mauled me. I was
horrified to realize all of a sudden that those who had made most of me had always envied me
in secret; that, to a man, they hated me; that each and all would use every effort to ensure
my ruin; that I had to face perjury, unanimous perjury, gushing from an abundant well- head
of malignity, spite, and enmity. My valet alone seemed on my side, and he could assist me not
at all.

I was bound with ropes knotted till my hands and feet swelled, till the cords cut into my flesh.
I was abused, my clothing torn till I was half naked. I was whacked and clawed till I was bleeding
in a dozen places; I was reviled, jeered at and threatened. Trussed like a fowl to be roasted,
I was half hustled half dragged, almost carried, down into the courtyard. From there, after
no long wait, I was haled off to the slaves' prison in the Slave-Dealers' Exchange next the
Slave-Market. There I was released from my bonds, heavy shackles were riveted on my ankles
and I was cast into the lower dungeon.

I had had time to tell Dromo, my faithful valet, to inform Agathemer. I knew he, in turn, would
inform Tanno and Vedia. I was certain that they would do all that they could. But I dreaded
that they could do nothing. I was despondent, despairing. Actually, Dromo must have been clever,
prompt and judicious, and Agathemer equally quick and resourceful, with the fullest possible
help from Tanno and Vedia, and they must have taxed to the utmost their influence and their means.

After a night almost sleepless I was visited at dawn by no less a person than Galen himself.

"My boy," he said, "you, are in a terrible situation and we were in a quandary how to advise
you. But, after much discussion, we are agreed that you have some chance of life as Phorbas
the slave, accused of murdering his master, whereas you have no chance at all as Andivius Hedulio,
proscribed along with Egnatius Capito. Our new Emperor seems to feel that all enemies of former
Princes are foes of his; he seems to have ordered his agents to be on the lookout for all living
persons accused, relegated, or banished under Julianus, Pertinax and Commodus. Those taken
in Rome have been promptly executed. By all means, whatever happens to you, whatever threatens
you, give no hint that you are Andivius Hedulio. Endure what befalls and hope for life and
safety and ultimate rehabilitation.

"Of course I can see you as often as I please without exciting any suspicion. You were, while
yourself and prosperous, only one of my countless patients, never among those I made much of.
You, as Phorbas, have been under my special care, as the darling of poor Falco, who was one
of my best friends, though I had known him so short a time. My visits here cannot prejudice
your welfare and may help you, even save you.

"Cheer up! Agathemer says that the real murderers are certain to betray themselves by attempting
to dispose of some of the stolen gems. He is right. And he had taken measures to ensnare them.
He has warned or is warning every gem-dealer in Rome, from Orontides himself down to the most
disreputable scoundrel who makes a living by exchanging his cash for stolen gems. He has sent
off despatches already along many postroads, by the couriers who set out at dawn, notifying
all gem-dealers in the towns along these roads to be on the watch for the miscreants. He will
continue this until the warning is all over Italy from Rhegium and Brundisium to the Alps,
and that within a few days. Those precious gentry are certain to be nabbed either in Rome or
elsewhere. Whenever they are identified and in durance it will be easy to clear you.

"Meanwhile you will be tried as a slave accused of murdering his master and the investigation
will include the questioning of every slave in the house at the time of the murder. I know
you are aquiver with dread of torture; there will be torture, but I assure you you will not
be tortured. As much can be done today by influence and bribery as could be done under Perennis
or Cleander, only it cannot be done so crudely and openly, and much else can be done openly.

"We have endeavored to arrange to have you tried by a bunch of jurymen presided over by a praetor,
just as if you were a freeman, according to Hadrian's law. But Commodus had repealed all such
laws mitigating the rigors of procedure in the case of slaves and Severus has not had them
reenacted. So you will be tried by a magistrate, a deputy of the Prefect of the City, as slaves
were tried before Hadrian's time.

"We shall have, at the trial, to cheer you up, to counsel you, and, if necessary, to intervene
in your behalf, as clever an advocate as any in Rome. Keep up a good heart, and read these
letters."

And he went off.

I had a proof of the truth of what he said of bribery within half an hour, for I was bathed,
my hurts dressed, and I was clothed in new, clean and comfortable garments and served with
abundant eatable food and good wine.

I had promptly read the letters.

Agathemer's Galen had anticipated, mostly. Besides briefly telling me of his measures for detecting
the murderers, and prophesying their success, he assured me of his devotion and alertness to
take advantage of any chance to help me.

Tanno pledged me his utmost efforts to assist me, and emphasized his hope that the influences
which he and Vedia could enlist in my behalf and the cash at their disposal would protect me
from the worst horrors of trial as a slave and would ultimately clear me and free me from danger.

Vedia wrote:

"The Leopard-Tamer's bride gives greeting to the Leopard-Tamer. Keep up your courage! Do not
be despondent, but have a hopeful heart. All that gold, all that influence can do for you,
shall be done. Cheer up! You will live to see yourself a free man, unsmirched by any accusation,
you and I will be married and live many years of happiness afterwards: Farewell."

Investigations of murders are prompt in Rome and trials of accused slaves quickly disposed
of. Before the next morning was half way to noon, on the fifth day before the Ides of July,
I found myself, still shackled, but well fed and well clad, in the Basilica Sempronia, before
the magistrate charged with deciding such cases. He turned out to be young Lollius Corbulo,
whom I had not set eyes on until he came to know me as Phorbas, for he was an art amateur of
high standing, considering his youth.

I never have discovered how much he was influenced by his natural kindliness of disposition,
how much by personal regard for me, how much by Tanno, acting for himself and Vedia, whether
he had been bribed or not. He, when I questioned him in after years, passed it off with a smile
saying that anyone would accept a gift on condition of doing what he meant to do uninfluenced,
that no one needed a gift to make him do the right thing. From Agathemer, Tanno and Vedia I
have never been able to extract any admissions as to their activities in my behalf. Anyhow
Corbulo gave a demonstration of the great latitude which is permitted both by law and custom
to such a magistrate in such a case. He ordered my shackles removed, and, while they were being
filed through, sent off three of his apparitors in charge of Dromo to fetch some of my own
garments from my apartments in Falco's house.

He went about his investigation like a fair-minded man who meant to favor no one and to ferret
out the exact truth.

Corbulo in his full senatorial attire, the broad crimson stripe more conspicuous than the white
of his toga, sat in his chair at the center of the apse of the basilica, his apparitors behind
him. In the nave of the basilica, surrounded by guards, were herded those members of Falco's
retinue who had been in his house at the time of his murder. Further down the nave were many
outsiders, come to listen to the trial. In the aisles were gathered hangers-on of the court.
In the apse, to the left and right of the tribunal, stood many of Falco's friends, among whom
I recognized Casperius Asellio and Vespronius Lustralis. Among those on the other side of the
magistrate were Tanno and Galen.

The bare, bleak interior of the ancient, old-fashioned basilica, with its blackened roof-beams,
unadorned walls, Travertine columns of the severest Tuscan pattern, and plain window-lattices,
made an austere setting for the trial. I saw nowhere any rack, winches, horse, or any other
engine or torture; but, while Dromo was gone, four muscular court-slaves came tramping In,
each supporting a pole end. The two long poles were passed through the four ear-handles of
a bronze brazier all of five feet square, level full of glowing charcoal, the brilliant bed
of coals radiating an intense heat perceptible as they passed near me. When they had set it
down in full view of all and near the tribunal one of them shook out and folded four-thick
a thin Spanish blanket of harsh wiry wool and spread the square of it by the brazier, squatting
on it to tend the coals with a long- handled five pronged altar-hook.

When Dromo returned with my garments and I was clad as Phorbas, Corbulo questioned me as to
when Falco had bought me, where and from whom. To my relief he did not ask me how Rufius Libo
had acquired me. He did ask my age, but nothing else concerning my past. As to my life with
Falco in Africa and at Rome, he questioned me closely. I told him all about Falco's character,
his gem-collecting, the effect on him of the murders of Commodus and Pertinax, his forebodings
and his utterances to me about his will. When he felt that he knew all I had to tell along
these lines, he said:

"Now tell me your version of your master's death."

He heard me out and said:

"I believe you. You speak like a truth-teller."

He then questioned the janitor, who babbled and cringed, half unintelligibly, but stoutly denying
that he had slept at his post on the seventh day before the Kalends of July.

"I am of the opinion," said Corbulo, drily, "that you are lying."

Then to his apparitors he said:

"Strip him."

The court-slave, the charcoal-tender, stood up off his folded blanket and shook it out. The
janitor, stripped and bound, ankles lashed, hands trussed behind him, was haled towards the
brazier. The blanket was flung round him and four apparitors lifted him as if he had been a
log and held him near the brazier, the enveloping blanket drawn tight over his left thigh and
its outer underside nearest the coals, tilting him sideways to bring the soft thickness of
the thigh closest to the heat. They watched the tight blanket over his thigh and moved him
a little away from the brazier when the wool began to smoke.

I had never seen nor heard of this kind of torture, but it seemed effectual. The fellow writhed,
groaned, squalled and protested. After Corbulo had him brought back before him he confessed
that he had been asleep in his cell from some time before Falco's murder until he was aroused
by Dromo, just before the arrival of Casperius and Vespronius.

One by one the other slaves were questioned. Three declared that they had seen the janitor
asleep not long before they heard the alarm.

Several more testified that the janitor had often been asleep. More than half of them confirmed
my story of the theft of the silver on the Nones of May. Except the janitor not one was tortured,
though Corbulo threatened with torture several who hesitated in their testimony.

After the slaves Corbulo questioned Asellio and Lustralis.

Then, when they had stood aside, he gazed about at the spectators in the nave, at the crowd
behind them, interested in the next case or in others to come up later, at the hangers-on in
the side aisles; for a time, mute, he stared at the glowing charcoal fire in the big brazier.

When he spoke he said:

"It is my opinion that Phorbas is innocent. I have inspected the house where the murder took
place. From the condition of the looted rooms it is plain that more jewelry was stolen than
any one man could carry off. Manifestly two men participated in the robbery and murder and
escaped with their booty, very likely the same pair who robbed Falco's triclinium on the Nones
of May. The janitor's confessed delinquency explains how they entered and got away unhindered
and unseen. The dead man's heirs should punish the janitor. I hold no other slave at fault.
Has any man anything which he wishes to say before I pass formal judgment for official record?'
Lustralis asked permission to speak and amazed me by his fluency, his ingratiating delivery,
his vehemence, his ingenuity and the fantastic malignity of his contentions. Corbulo heard
him out to the end, unmoving as a statue.

"You do not look like a lunatic nor act like one, Lustralis," he said, "but you talk like one.
Phorbas has impressed me by every feature of his tale. He appears to have told the truth. He
seems to have been a sincere friend to his late master. I cannot credit the wild suggestion
that a man of his character would plot his master's death, or that a man of his intelligence,
with a full knowledge of the terms of his master's will, would expose himself to suspicion
by so plotting; far less that such a man as he would ignore the perils of such a crime and
so desire his freedom and the legacies promised him as to league himself with two criminals,
assist them to enter the house and to escape from it, and hope to come off unscathed and unsuspected
and forever unbetrayed.

"But, suppose all you imagine and insinuate is true in fact. Prove it! Produce the two robbers.
Prove them the robbers by recovering their booty. If they, so convicted of the robbery, are
brought before me, if they accuse Phorbas of being their accomplice, if they tell a consistent
and convincing tale, if any colorable motive for such association and such a crime can be alleged
against Phorbas, then I'll believe him guilty, and not till then."

He eyed Lustralis, who spoke further.

"Torture Phorbas!" Corbulo cried. "Absurd! In my court I never torture men like him, any more
than if they were freemen. And though it might be imperative to torture him for a confession
if all the testimony pointed to his guilt, it is ridiculous to suggest torturing him merely
to corroborate evidence demonstrating his innocence.

"I, hereby, officially as the representative of the Commonwealth, pronounce Phorbas cleared
of all charges connected with this case. I hereby enjoin all men to assist the Republic to
detect and apprehend the murderers who robbed Falco and killed him."

Lustralis and Asellio looked baffled and sour. A murmur of approval ran through the bystanders.
My fellow-slaves congratulated each other and rejoiced, save only the janitor.

Galen approached me.

"Phorbas," he said, "as you are now a freeman by your late master's will, which will soon be
read and its provisions put into effect, at which reading I shall be present as one of the
legatees, you may now go where you like. I invite you to come with me."

I thanked Corbulo, who said:

"Don't thank me. I did just what any sane, clear-headed, fair-minded magistrate must do, affirmed
the manifest truth."

Galen led me off to a modest apartment near the Carinae. I found everything prepared for my
comfort, slaves to wait on me and nothing omitted. I thanked him.

"Tanno," he said, "deputed me to hire this lodging for you. He has kept in the background.
These are my slaves, put at your disposal and enjoined to obey you as they would obey me in
person. Keep quiet here till I can arrange for you to take possession of your legacies from
Falco. I think he left you all your personal belongings and the slaves who waited on you. As
soon as the necessary formalities are completed I'll send them to you.

"Do not attempt to communicate with Vedia or Tanno. Do nothing which might betray you as your
actual self. Our new Emperor seems resolute to exterminate, to the last individual, all persons
implicated in any conspiracy not only against Julianus or Pertinax, but against Commodus, from
the date of his accession. All such persons apprehended are promptly executed. Keep quiet.
Efface yourself till I give you the word. I can communicate with you freely, can see you daily,
if need be, since I am one of poor Falco's heirs and was your physician during his life here
in Rome. I'll do all I can for you."

He left and I bathed, ate, and slept the rest of that day and slept sound all night.

Next day passed similarly. But, early on the following day, the third day before the Kalends
of July, not long after sunrise, my new valet came to me his face ashen. He babbled some unintelligible
syllables and before I could comprehend him, my bedroom was entered by a Pannonian sergeant,
grim as the centurions from Britain who had liberated Agathemer and me from the ergastulum
at Placentia. Behind him were four legionary soldiers. I was rearrested!

CHAPTER XXXVIII

TORTURE

I was promptly haled off to the same prison where Galen had visited me three days before. There
I was again deprived of my garments and clad in others, new, but of cheap material, coarse
and uncomfortable. Also shackles, heavier shackles, were at once riveted on my ankles, and
I was again consigned to the lower dungeon. I was, to be sure, given good and abundant food
and wine not too unpalatable. Otherwise I had no indulgences and there I spent the night.

Next day, the last day of June, Galen again visited me.

"My lad," he said, "the first rule of medicine is to cheer up the patient, but I must say that
your case looks grave and I have little cheer for you. I shall do my best and so will Tanno,
Vedia and Agathemer. But we are all dazed. We cannot understand what has happened, nor who
has brought it to pass, nor what influences are working against us.

"But someone has gotten the ear of Juvenalis or of Severus himself. It has been represented
plausibly to the Prefect of the Praetorium, or perhaps even to the Emperor in person, that
the courts here in Rome have fallen into a shocking state of disrepute on account of decisions
in scandalous contravention of the evidence, brought about by favoritism and bribery. It has
also been plausibly represented that the slave-population has little respect for the lives
or property of their masters, less loyalty towards them and very little dread of punishment.
Your alleged murder of poor Falco is held up as a flagrant example of the latter condition,
your acquittal as an even more flagrant instance of the degradation of the courts.

"Believing that a shocking miscarriage of justice has taken place concerning an atrocious crime,
the Prefect or the Prince has ordered you rearrested and retried, tomorrow, this time before
Cassius Ravillanus."

I shuddered, not metaphorically, but actually. I felt cold all over, as if plunged into an
icy mountain stream. Ravillanus claimed as his ancestor Cassius Ravilla and aimed at emulating
him. Certainly, as a magistrate, he quite frankly talked and acted as if acquittal were a disgrace
to the court, and the object of each trial not impartial justice but the conviction of the
accused. He was perfectly sincere, upright in every intention, incorruptible, fanatical, self-opinionated,
austere, ascetic, stern and harsh. I shuddered again and again at the thought of him.

"Ravillanus has the reputation of being unbribable," Galen went on, 'and it is a question whether
an attempt at bribery might not prejudice your case more than letting matters be. Yet I have
employed an agent far too clever to bungle any approach, and something may be done for you.
Vedia is despondent, but resolute to keep her head and help you all she can, and she has cash
to spare and much influence. Tanno has even more of both. Agathemer is hopeful of running down
the real murderers, as they are loaded with their booty. If they are caught we can clear you.

"Keep up a brave heart."

I tried to, but it was impossible. I ate little and slept hardly at all.

The next day, the Kalends of July, saw me haled again to the Basilica Sempronia.

There I beheld a scene almost a duplicate of my first trial; a similar throng of spectators,
very similar bevies of expectant witnesses, advocates and prosecutors; the same batch of my
former fellow-slaves, surrounded by the same guards; the very same charcoal-brazier tended
by the same slave squatting on the same folded blanket; similar knots of notables in the apse,
about and behind the magistrate's tribunal; the same carved arm-chair; in it not Corbulo, but
Cassius Ravillanus, lean, dry, tanned, leathery, smooth-shaven, bald and stern.

He glared at me when my guards halted me four yards or so in front of him; then he beckoned
to one of his apparitors and spoke to him in an undertone. The fellow went off as if on an errand.

Ravillanus then gave, even more positively than Corbulo, a demonstration of the great latitude
permitted such a magistrate in procedure, of how completely it lies within his discretion what
to do and how to do it.

"Fellow!" he ranted, "you have plotted to rob and murder your master, you have done both and
you have, by favor and influence and perhaps even by bribery, arranged for your easy acquittal.
I am charged by the Prince of the Republic to see to it, that the majesty of the law, the sacredness
of the lives of Roman noblemen, and the security of their property be publicly vindicated:
I am here to undo all that Lollius Corbulo supinely allowed to be done. You shall perceive
that I am wholly unlike any such trifler. Of one feature only of his procedure do I approve.
I highly acclaim his notions as to the right kind of torture. Slaves like you, however pampered,
are property, like horses or cattle. Their value lies in their usefulness. Any slave, after
torture, should be as useful to his owners as before. If a slave is placed upon the horse and
weights hung to his feet, his legs are often made helpless, he cannot ever walk again, he is
a cripple. Still oftener does the rack leave a slave utterly useless. Our courts have always
desired some form of torture by which the recalcitrant could be made to suffer acute pain,
but not in any way injured. Lollius has introduced a torture which never injures anyone subjected
to it, but which causes extreme agony while in use. Only stretch a hard-yarn Spanish blanket
over a thigh, draw it tight and hold the thigh at just the right distance from just the right
size of brazier with its coals properly tended, and the subject can be made to tell the truth;
but not broiled alive, for the blanket will singe before the flesh under it cooks. You had
best tell the truth, not such an ingenious string of lies as you told before Lollius."

Then he had all my fellow-slaves brought up and ranged before him.

"Your master," he said, "has been foully done to death. If the guilt of this hideous crime
can be indubitably fastened upon one of you or two or any few, the rest of you shall be held
innocent and shall suffer no penalties. If no facts can be ascertained limiting the guilt to
some of you, all of you, according to the ancient law concerning such cases, shall be put to
death by crucifixion or exposure to the beasts in the arena, as our Prince may prefer. I have
no desire to send to death any guiltless man. I enjoin you all to tell the truth and to assist
the law. The truth- tellers will suffer less of the torture."

He then, beginning with the scullions, had every boy and man tortured over the brazier, asking
no question of any till he had felt the heat of the fire and had begun to yell for mercy. Then
he would interrupt the torture, question the victim, bid the torturers again hold their subject
close to the fire; and again suspend the torture and ask questions. Naturally the victims,
frantic with pain and terror, said whatever they thought would get them off.

Also, to my horror, I realized for the first time, what I had only vaguely suspected before,
how venomously they had envied me, how violently embittered most of them were against me, how
they had hated their master's favorite. They were glad to slander me, they enjoyed assisting
at my ruin, they relished the prospect of my being tortured and executed. Moreover it appeared
that they had been carefully coached in what they were to say or had agreed among themselves,
without any outside hints, or after such hints.

The whole household made it appear that they had always suspected me of desiring Falco's death
in order that I might gain my freedom and enjoy his promised legacies; that I had enticed and
wheedled him into leaving me in his will an absurdly large share of his property.

They were also unanimous in declaring that they had been unable to bring home to me the devising
of the robbery of the triclinium, but they had all felt certain from the first that I had arranged
to have confederates of mine steal the table silver. They were equally consistent in asserting
that they all believed that I had murdered Falco, after arranging for the looting of the gem-collection
as a blind.

Hour after hour I had to stand and watch wretch after wretch held to the glowing coals, had
to listen to the shrieks of the victims, could not but realize that Ravillanus was bent on
my conviction, that nothing would swerve him from his purpose.

Dromo, alone of all the household, alone of my obsequious, indulged personal servants, held
out against the torture and though he writhed, yelled, sobbed and even endured the pain until
he fainted more than once, refused to say anything against me.

After Dromo my turn came. When I was stripped Ravillanus rubbed his hands and remarked:

"You have your character written on your back! How could Falco trust a fellow so branded and
scarred! Easy-going masters like Falco not only bring on their own deaths, but sap the foundations
of safety for all slave-owners. Your back, in advance, advertises you guilty. Better own up."

I pass over the details. But I must confess that I was far from heroic. Perhaps it is true,
and not an invention, that Marcus Scaevola voluntarily thrust his hand into the altar-fire
and stood mute and smiling, and watched it burn and char. If any man ever did that he had more
self- control than I ever had. I could repress every indication of my agonies. I fainted so
many times that I lost count. The afternoon was drawing on towards evening before Ravillanus
began to lose patience.

Tanno and Galen had been from the first among those about the tribunal. Now, in a pause, while
I was being brought back to consciousness to be again tortured, Galen succeeded in gaining
the attention of Ravillanus enough to induce him, though grudgingly, to permit the celebrated
advocate, Memmius Tuditanus, whom they had brought with them, to speak in my behalf. I had
regained consciousness before he began to speak and heard most of what he said. He spoke well.

His chief point was that a gem-expert and art-amateur like me, knowing that he was to inherit
one of the finest and most carefully chosen collections of gems and art objects in all the
world, would be the last man on earth to allow it to be disturbed, let alone to plot its ransacking,
the pillage of its cases and the dispersal of their precious contents. No man could better
have exposed the absurdity of the whole flimsy and preposterous fabrication that I had had
two confederates, who had, in my interest and at my suggestion, robbed first the triclinium
and then the gem-collection, after which last I had myself murdered Falco.

But his logic, his lucidity and his eloquence fell on deaf ears. Ravillanus was unmoved. He
permitted Lustralis to make a rambling and incoherent harangue, setting forth his ridiculous
contentions.

Then he passed judgment:

"I hold you all innocent save Phorbas alone. Dromo is manifestly devoted to Phorbas and has
lied in his behalf. But Dromo, apparently, was no accomplice in the plot or in the murder.
I acquit him with the rest. Phorbas, who vilely plotted against his master, who foully murdered
him, I adjudge guilty of his death and I hereby condemn him to be kept chained in the slaves'
prison until the next day of beast-fighting in the Colosseum, then, in the arena, to be exposed
to the ferocity of the famished wild beasts of the desert, wilderness and forest, by them to
be lacerated and torn to pieces, as he richly deserves."

Tanno and Galen could indicate their grief and sympathy only by looks and gestures, for they
dared not attempt to approach me.

Then Ravillanus called:

"Where is that barber?"

The apparitor who had gone off before the trial began produced a barber.

"Trim his hair and beard!" Ravillanus ordered. And I had to submit to having my long locks
shorn and my beard clipped close, leaving me far too like my true former self for my comfort,
since I still had hopes of Agathemer catching the real murderers in time to save me from the
doom impending over me because of the fanaticism of Ravillanus, while I anticipated nothing
but inescapable death should I be recognized as not Phorbas, but as Andivius Hedulio.

I was then, late in the afternoon of the Kalends of July, haled off to the Colosseum and immured
in one of the cells of the lowermost crypt, far below the street level. To my amazement I found
myself sharing the cell with Narcissus, who had been similarly condemned to exposure to the
beasts, as the murderer of Commodus.

Together we spent five dreadful days in the darkness, dampness, chill and foulness of that
tiny cell. I found that influence such as Tanno and Vedia possessed and cash such as they had
at their disposal, could do much even for the occupant of such a cell, destined to such a doom.
I was visited by Galen, more than once, and he emphasized the still hopeful possibility, nay
probability, that Agathemer might, in time, save me, run down and bring before a magistrate
the real murderers. I was gloomy, I admit. But his presence in that horrible hole and his words
cheered me, by brightening the hope I had never wholly lost.

Also I was tended, massaged, rubbed, chafed, washed each day in warm water brought in big pails
and poured into a big, shallow pan; I was anointed; clothed in a comfortable tunic, strengthened
with plenty of good food and strong wine and provided with a cot and bedding and blankets.
I was able to have Narcissus indulged also, in order that he might be a less unpleasant cell-mate.

He talked to me freely of life in the Palace, of Commodus, of Marcia, of Ducconius Furfur,
of his own fatal mistake, of the amazing likeness, even apparent identity, between Furfur and
Commodus, of the naturalness of his inability to tell them apart.

I drank and ate all the food and wine I could swallow, slept all I could, and tried to be hopeful.

Thus passed five horrible days and six hideous nights.

After no more than twelve days, as I learned later, Severus felt himself securely established
as Prince of the Republic. By spending almost every moment of daylight on official business,
denying himself more than the merest minimum of sleep and food, he had put every department
of the government sufficiently in order to feel assured of their smooth and effective operation.
His troops were now all outside the City, comfortably camped, well supplied and content; the
City was orderly and its life had resumed its normal aspect and activities. He felt free to
win the regard of the populace by magnificent exhibitions in the amphitheater, on the occasion
of the eight days of the Games of Apollo, beginning the day before the Nones of July.

Early next day Narcissus and I were haled from our cell and led, by passages only too well
known to me since my service in the Choragium, to the iron-gated doorway from which condemned
criminals were thrust out into the arena for the lions or other beasts to tear. From inside
that doorway I could look across the sand of the arena and could see not only the herald on
his tiny platform, elevated above the leap of the most agile panther, not only the arena-wall
opposite me, but also the faces of the senators in their private boxes on the podium, even
a portion of the nobility behind them and of the populace higher up and further back.

The day was hot, still and clear, and the July sunshine, still slant in the early morning,
struck under the awning and long shafts of the mellow radiance brightened the sand.

From that doorway, craning over the heads of the wretches in front of me, I caught glimpses
of the fury of several beasts as they vented their ferocity upon some ordinary criminals and
assuaged their ravenous hunger on their blood and flesh.

My time was not far off, yet I still hoped against hope that Agathemer might, even yet, have
caught the thieving murderers and would intervene before it was too late. I did not at all
fear the beasts; I knew that no bear, panther, leopard, tiger or lion would hurt me, but I
felt certain that, when the beasts left me unharmed, I should be recognized as Festus the Beast-Wizard:
and then, as the scrutiny of the whole audience would be riveted on me, identified as Andivius
Hedulio.

Narcissus was led out, stepping jauntily between his guards, treading springily, with no sign
of panic or dejection, a pattern Hercules, naked save for a loin-cloth, his skin pink and fresh,
in spite of his days in a dungeon, his mighty muscles rippling all over his huge form. The
herald proclaimed to all that this was Narcissus, professional wrestler, for long the crony
of Commodus, who had strangled his master and was to be punished for his treachery and crime
by being torn to pieces in sight of all Rome.

They let out on him a full-grown, young Mauretanian lion, starved and ravenous. Narcissus was
naked and empty-handed, his close-clipped hair, standing like the bristles of a brush, yellow
as gold wire, shining in the sun. He stood almost as immobile as had Palus and faced the lion,
which, after a bound or two towards him, flattened down on the sand and began to crawl nearer,
preparing for a spring.

When it sprang Narcissus performed one of the most miraculous feats ever beheld in the amphitheater.
He did not dodge but ducked slightly, the wide-spread, taloned paws missing his head on each
side. His arms shot out as the lion sprang, and, though the brute came at him through the air
like a log-arrow from a catapult, his hands gripped each side of the wide-open mouth and his
thumbs pushed the inner corners of the lips between the parted upper and lower cheek-teeth.
Therefore to close his jaws on his victim the lion had to crush a roll or fold of his own lips.
This incredibly difficult feat prolonged his life a few breaths. The whole populace howled
in ecstasy at the wretch's coolness, courage, strength, swiftness and adroitness.

The lion's momentum and weight bore Narcissus to the ground, but his thumbs did not slip nor
his hold loosen. On the sand lion and man rolled and wrestled, for a brief time. Then the lion,
lashing out with his hind legs, caught with the claws of one the wrestler's belly and half
disemboweled him. Narcissus collapsed and the great fangs met in his throat.

The populace redoubled their yells.

When silence fell, after the lion had been chased back into his cage and the cage lowered down
the lift-shaft, after the mangled corpse of Narcissus had been dragged away and sand sprinkled
to hide the red patches where his blood had soaked it, I was haled forth and stood in the very
center of the arena. From his perch the herald proclaimed that I was Phorbas, the slave of
Pompeianus Falco of Carthage and Rome, who had plotted his master's death in order sooner to
gain freedom from his testament, and had himself dealt Falco his deathblow. The populace jeered
and booed at me.

I had, as Festus the Animal-Tender, often viewed the interior of the Colosseum from the arena.
But never when I was myself the cynosure of all eyes. There I stood, naked except for a loin-cloth,
empty-handed, my shoulder-brand and scarred back visible to half the spectators, glared at
and reviled. From my viewpoint the spectacle was singularly magnificent: the dark blue sky
overhead, varied by some large, solid-looking, white clouds; the fluttering banners waving
from the awning poles; the particolored, sagging awning, shading half the audience; the beauty
of the upper colonnade under the awning; the solidly packed throng of spectators which crowded
the colonnade, the aisles, the steps and every seat in the hollow of the amphitheater; the
dignified ease of the nobility in their spaced chairs, of the senators in their ample armchairs;
the gorgeousness of the Imperial Pavilion, filled with a retinue brilliant in blue and silver,
in green and gold, in white and crimson, about the hard, spare, soldierly figure on the throne.

I was the only human being on the sand, eyed by all onlookers.

From a door in the podium-wall a famished lion was loosed at me. He bounded towards me, roaring;
but, three or four lengths from me he paused, stood still regarding me, circled about me and
then turned his back on me and loped off to the arena-wall, along which he rounded the arena,
apparently searching for a way out. The populace, at first mute with astonishment, voiced their
amazement in yells of a notably different quality from those they had uttered while watching
Narcissus.

Another lion behaved similarly, except that he, after inspecting me, merely walked in circles
far out in the arena, ignoring me as if I were not there at all.

They loosed on me five more lions, four tigers, four leopards, four panthers and four bears,
of the fierce Alpine breed. Some of these animals delighted the populace by attacking each
other and affording entertainment by savage and ferocious fighting. But not one showed any
disposition to attack me.

As beast after beast approached me, conned me and spared me, the upper tiers began to call:

"He is innocent."

"He is guiltless."

"The beasts know."

"He is not guilty."

"The gods declare him clean of guilt!" and other such cries.

Also they began to show signs of being restless and bored. Some yelled for another criminal.

A seventh lion was loosed at me. He paused like the others and eyed me; then he strolled up
to me, snuffed at me, and rubbed his mane against my hip, emitting a rambling purr. I laid
my hand on his mane.

Instantly, from all sides at once, rang out cries of,

"Festus!"

"Festus the Beast-Wizard!"

"He's no Phorbas, he's Festus come back!"

I was not far from the Imperial Pavilion and one of the retinue leaned over the podium-coping
and called to me. I walked towards him. When I was within earshot he called in Greek:

"The King commands that you lead the beasts back to their cages."

Elated and hoping for a reprieve, for vindication, for life, for rehabilitation, for Imperial
favor, I led beast after beast back to its cage on a shaft-lift, or to a door in the wall.
When the last one was caged an officer of the Imperial retinue, a frontiersman only lately
come to Rome, stepped out of one of the postern doors, two arena-slaves with him. They led
me to the center of the arena, trussed my hands behind me, bound my ankles and wrapped round
my head an evil-smelling old quilt, probably taken from the cot of some arena-slave housed
in some cell under the hollow of the amphitheater. Half suffocated by it, unable to shake it
off, for they tied it fast, I stood there, blind, realizing that the Emperor still believed
me guilty, was inexorable and meant me to be torn to pieces then and there; believing, as I
did, that my immunity from attack was due to the effect of my gaze on the beasts I made mild.

Now you, who read, know that I was not devoured. But I had no shred of hope left. I thought
that my end had come. I anticipated only the agony of great fangs rending my flesh.

I felt only the hot breath of a beast snuffing at my legs. Perhaps I fainted. Certainly my
next sensation was of lying on the sand, with several unseen animals growling near me and one
or more snuffing at my feet and legs.

The amphitheater was quiet, even hushed.

Then, suddenly, a lion uttered a full-throated, coughing roar, jagged and rumbling. When it
died away a universal yell arose from the populace. I heard cries of:

"He is innocent!"

"Set him free!"

"We behold the justice of the gods!"

"This proves him guiltless!"

"Festus or Phorbas, he is not guilty!"

And other such exclamations.

Ridiculously, what passed through my mind, besides disgust at the foul odor of the quilt about
my head, was the thought that, if I had known that ferocious beasts would avoid me even when
they could not see my gaze, I should, on that unforgettable moonlit evening in Sabinum, have
gone off home to my cottage, to Septima, and have missed my encounter with Vedia, and our night
in her traveling coach.

Then I heard the voices of the animal-tenders essaying, with their long- handled tridents,
to chase back into their cages the beasts loose about me.

Soon someone cut my ankle-thongs and the cords about the quilt, also my arm-thongs. The quilt
was twitched from my face and I was assisted to my feet. The amphitheater was full of the yells
of the populace, affirming my innocence and the manifest intervention of the gods in my behalf.
I rolled my gaze around the audience and sought to interpret the demeanor of the Imperial retinue.

Then, as I gazed at the Emperor, too far off for me to make out his expression, the yells altered
their quality.

I turned round.

I saw, running towards me across the sand, Agathemer!

Behind him was an official in the robes of a magistrate!

Behind him six more human shapes, four lictors convoying two bound prisoners.

Agathemer embraced me and I him.

"Saved," he breathed, "we've got 'em and most of the loot. Enough to convict 'em and clear you!"

As we loosed our embrace I looked at the approaching magistrate.

He was Flavius Clemens!

Before the shock of recognizing him had passed I forgot him entirely.

For I had recognized the two prisoners.

Though I had seen them but once and that by moonlight, and that eight years before, I recognized
the two drunken robbers who had helped us to our couriers' equipment and sent us off galloping
to Marseilles.

Indubitably they were Carex and Junco!

While still numb with amazement I felt upon me the cold gaze of Flavius Clemens. I looked him
full in the face. He was no less astonished than I and I could read in his expression both
amazement and suspicion. I was acutely aware that Ravillanus, by having my hair and beard clipped,
had made me readily recognizable to anyone and everyone who had known me in the days of my
prosperity. I was even more acutely aware of the keen intuition which every lover feels toward
any actual or potential rival. I dreaded that Clemens not only recognized me for myself, but
had a glimmering inkling as to why his suit of Vedia had twice failed. But he said nothing except:

"You are cleared of every imputation in connection with the murder of Pompeianus Falco. You
are free to go where you please."

Agathemer took off his robe, and threw it around me and led me to a postern. In the vaulted
corridor we were met by Tanno, who embraced me and congratulated me, and Galen, who also embraced
me and felicitated me. Tanno said:

"Vedia kept up till Agathemer nabbed the criminals, then she fainted; but she declares the
faint relieved her and that she is entirely herself."

In one of the cells under the hollow of the amphitheater I was given strong wine, all I wanted,
and then washed with warm water already prepared for me, and afterwards thoroughly massaged.
Then I was clad in garments of my own.

"I feel like myself," I remarked.

Just then Flavius Clemens entered, his expression entirely too intelligible for me. Looking
me full in the eyes he said:

"You have been passing as an art-amateur of Greek ancestry, under the name of Phorbas, with
the status of a slave. Before that you were among the helpers at the Choragium, held as a slave
belonging to the fiscus, by the name of Festus. It seems to me that you are no Greek, nor of
Greek blood, even to the smallest degree, I take you for a full-blooded Roman. I think I recognize
you. Are you not Andivius Hedulio?"

"I am," I acknowledged.

He saluted me courteously and bade me a polite farewell, without any other word.

Tanno and Galen made no comment, nor did Agathemer. They assisted me out to Tanno's waiting
litter. In it I was borne off to the lodgings which I had occupied eight days before, between
my two trials. There I found a tempting meal ready for me and ate liberally. Then I was put
to bed and at once fell into the deep sleep of utter exhaustion and slept through till long
after daylight next day.

When I woke I found that Dromo himself was by my bedside, as well as Agathemer. They tended
me, washed me, plied me with wine and fed me with dainties, asserting that Galen had given
orders that I was on no account to stir from my bed or sit up in it.

I slept again and, when I woke early in the afternoon, insisted on getting up and being dressed.
I was no sooner clad than there entered the apartment a big, florid, youthful Pannonian sergeant
and four legionaries.

I was yet again rearrested!

They led me away, forbidding Agathemer to exchange a word with me, or to follow us. Through
the brilliant July sunlight they led me, along its northeast flank, up the Steps of Groaning,
and to the Mamertine Prison!

There I was handed over to four of the assistants to the Public Executioner. They stripped
me of my outer garments, leaving me naked except for my tunic. Then they haled me to the trap-door,
lifted the trap, passed ropes under my armpits and lowered me into the dreaded lower dungeon,
the horrible Tullianum!

CHAPTER XXXIX

THE TULLIANUM

Gloomy as is the upper cell of the Mamertine Prison there is light enough there for my eyes
to have been utterly blinded by it as I was lowered into the black pit beneath. I saw nothing
in the brief period while I was being let down, while the ropes were being drawn up, while
the trap-door was shut down and fitted into place. Then I was in the pitchest darkness, into
which no ray, no glimmer of light could penetrate. I saw nothing whatever, yet I seemed to
feel a presence, seemed to hear a faint footfall, seemed to be aware of another human being
standing close to me. Then I heard a deep, resonant, healthy, pleasant-sounding voice ask:

"Brother in misfortune, who are you?"

I was past any impulse towards dissimulation or any belief in its utility.

"I am Andivius Hedulio."

"You are?" the big, cheerful male voice exclaimed. "You really are? You amaze me! I am Galvius
Crispinillus, lately and for many a year King of the Highwaymen! Give me your hand!"

Now, whatever distaste I felt for giving my hand to such a criminal, however great was my repugnance,
however utterly I felt myself lost, however certain I was of the inevitable doom hanging over
me, however short a respite I anticipated before my inescapable death, I was not fool enough
to antagonize my companion in misery, presumably a powerful and ferocious brute. I held out
my hand. His grasped it. Mine returned the grip.

"Come this way!" he said. "This pit is damp and chilly, but even here a bed of stale straw
is better than the rock floor or the patches of mud on it or the heaps of filth. I know every
inch of this hole and I know the least uncomfortable place to sit. Come along!"

He guided me in the utter blackness to a pile of damp straw. On it we sat down, half reclining.

"If you are thirsty," he said, "I can guide you to the well. There is a spring in here and
plenty of good water."

"I thank you," I said. "I shall be thirsty enough before long. Just now I am far more interested
to hear how you came here. Nobody believed that you would ever be caught."

"No more did I!" he ejaculated. "I had so easily defied the utmost efforts of the government
and officials under Aurelius, of the incompetents under Commodus, of his vaunted Highway Constabulary;
had so prospered, had so come and gone as I pleased and robbed whom I pleased from the Po to
the Straits, that I thought no man could lay for me any snare I could not foresee, thought
myself impeccably wary and prescient, though I had always taken and would always take all necessary
precautions.

"But I was a fool. I comprehended Aurelius and Commodus and their magistrates and officials
and constabulary; I was right in fearing nothing from Pertinax and Julianus; but I was an ass
to think I could cope with Septimius Severus. That man is deeper than the deepest abyss of
mid-ocean!

"I thought I was certain of months of disorder, confusion and laxity in which I could go where
I pleased, act as I pleased, garner a rich harvest and escape unscathed. Do you know, before
he had left Aquileia, perhaps before he had passed the Alps, possibly before he had set out
from Sabaria, that man had despatched not one but a dozen detachments to ascertain my whereabouts,
consider how best to take me unawares, lie in wait for me, nab me and hunt down my bands. I
believe he had thought out, far back in that head of his, long before Pertinax was murdered,
perhaps even long before Commodus died, every measure he would initiate if he became Emperor,
down to the smallest detail. He had all his plans framed and thought out, I'll wager!

"His emissaries were no fools! They, first among those despatched against me, knew their business.
I was trapped near Sentinum, on the Kalends of this month. Never mind how; even in this plight
I'm ashamed of it. They just missed nabbing Felix Bulla along with me. But he got away that
time. And I prophesy that now he is warned of his danger and knows the cleverness of the men
on his trail, he'll show himself yet cleverer. He is a marvel, is Felix Bulla, and promises
to outdo even my record."

He broke off, breathing audibly.

"By the way," he went on, "are you hungry? I have part of a loaf of bread in here, not yet
stale and no damper than it must get in this foul air. It hasn't fallen on the floor. It's
eatable."

"I'll be hungry enough before long," I replied, "but I am not hungry now. I had eaten all I
wanted and of the best just before I was haled here."

"Speak when you want any," he said. "It will be share and share alike here for us till they
come to finish us.

"And now, tell me about yourself. I have always been curious about you. I heard all about you
when you first got into trouble and I was told that the official report of your death was fictitious,
invented by underlings too clumsy to capture you and fearful of the consequences of their incompetence.
Also I heard unimpeachable testimony that you were alive later and had been seen in Rome with
Maternus and outside Rome, the next summer, with the mutineers from Britain. I have often wondered
how you got into such company. Tell me how you came to be with Maternus."

I saw no utility in any further dissimulation of anything or in any reticence; I began with
our springtime stay at the farm in the mountains, and told my story in detail, from that hour.

When I came to my visit, along with Maternus, to the Temple of Mercury and mentioned how Maternus
had warned me that we were being watched, and how I had shot one glance towards the watchers
and had recognized one of them, he interrupted me and, without enquiring where I had seen him
before, asked for a description of the watcher I had recognized. I gave it as well as I could
and he said:

"That was my brother, Marcus Galvius Crispinillus, now dead. It was he who told me that he
had seen you with Maternus. Go on."

Again, when I spoke of recognizing Crispinillus by the wayside as I passed with the mutineers
he interjected:

"Yes, he told me he saw you there."

And later, when I spoke of being found with Agathemer after the massacre, separated from him
and led off to the ergastulum at Nuceria he remarked:

"I can't conceive how my brother missed you. Nor could he. He looked for you among the corpses
and went over the survivors twice in search of you."

"I did not see him after the massacre," I declared.

"Mercury protected you," was his comment.

When I finished the story of my giving warning of the plot in the ergastulum at Nuceria I paused.

"Go on, lad!" he urged. "You have had adventures and you narrate them tellingly."

I hesitated and then, utterly reckless, I blurted out:

"If I am to go on with my story you might as well know right now, that I am not only Andivius
Hedulio, but also Felix the Horse-Wrangler."

He swore a great oath.

"Boy!" he cried, "I love you! I have admired you since I listened to Bulla's account of his
one failure. At first I was furious at your having spoiled the best plan I ever laid and the
most brilliant chance I ever had, at your preventing me from making the biggest haul of booty
I ever had hopes of. But, as years passed, my resentment has abated and my admiration has warmed.
I bear you no grudge. I have often thought I should like to meet you and find out why on earth
you desired to thwart me and how you managed to do it. Go on! Tell me the rest."

I resumed my tale.

When I came to my outlook from the crag and explained my former acquaintance with Vedia he
interrupted.

"Of course, if you knew the lady and she was an old flame of yours, I don't wonder that you
intervened to save her. My lads were so rough and fierce-looking that they had a worse reputation
than they deserved. When they captured prisoners rich enough to pay any profitable ransom they
treated them with the most scrupulous deference. Business is business and we were not brigands
for fun, but for profit. Also they all dreaded me and my orders were explicit and emphatic.
Your sweetheart would have been as respected with them as in her own home. But, of course,
you couldn't feel that way. Go on with your story."

I demurred, asserting that I felt sleepy. He assented and we composed ourselves on the straw.
How long I slept or when I wakened I do not know: I was roused by the opening of the trap-door
and by the light which entered from above. Food was lowered to us; pork-stew, still warm, in
a two-handled, wide-mouthed jug; bread; olives, not wholly spoiled; and a small kidskin of
thin, sour wine. Galvius received the dole and safeguarded the containers: the ropes were drawn
up, the trap-door reset and we were again in utter darkness.

To my astonishment I felt entirely myself and very hungry. We drank and ate deliberately and
again drank. Galvius was a careful husbander of the wine, and we drank mostly water from the
spring.

Afterwards, nestled in the not unendurably damp straw, chilly, but not shivering, we sat or
lay side by side and he urged me to continue my story. I began where I had left off, and, going
into the smallest details, brought my history down to the hour of my consignment to our dungeon.

When I paused he sighed, but not gloomily.

"You have had marvellous adventures," he said, "and marvellous luck, both good and bad. I knew
that Marcia had belonged to your uncle. I was informed of the existence of Ducconius Furfur,
of his likeness to Commodus, of his presence in the Palace, of his utilization as a dummy Emperor,
to set Commodus free to masquerade as Palus, and I heard that he had been your neighbor.

"Now go back, begin your tale at the beginning. Tell me of your getting into trouble at the
first, of how you escaped in the first place. I have often wondered how you managed it."

"Give me a respite," I demurred, "my voice is tired. It is your turn to talk. Tell me how you
learned about Ducconius Furfur and about Commodus masquerading as Palus and about Marcia."

"Why," he said, "I had friends in one or more towns when I first took to the woods. They gave
me tips that helped me to make fine hauls on the highways. As I prospered I made more friends;
they helped me and my growing success gained more, till I had friends in every town in Italy
and in Rome itself and an organized service of road-messengers. Why, Imperial couriers often
carried letters and packets, destined for me, from one town to another, or even carried onward
letters from me to distant friends or parcels of my booty.

"In Rome itself I had many agents and chiefly my sister, Galvia Crispinilla, a professional
procuress and poisoner, who knew the worst secrets of the lives of all Rome's wealthy and noble
debauchees, and our brother, Marcus Galvius Crispinillus, a professional informer and a valued
member of the Imperial Secret Service. I never knew why he had a spite against you, but he
had and it was false information given by him that caused your proscription and ruin and thrust
you into your years of misery. I always felt that you did not deserve what you have suffered,
but his grudges were none of my business.

"He is dead, as is Galvia, for she kept poison about her and gave a supply to him and to me
to use in case of capture. I was caught without mine, for I was certain that no danger threatened
me. He and she took the poison when they saw capture inevitable, as it will be for most evil-doers
all over the Empire under the sway of such a man as Septimius Severus."

He paused and I meditated awhile, puzzling as to how I could have incurred the vindictive rancor
of any secret-service agent.

Presently I said:

"Tell me how you came to be King of the Highwaymen."

"My boy," he said, "my case is far different from yours. You had an honorable origin and an
honorable past. Nor were any of your adventures discreditable to you, even if some situations
you have been in were distressing then and are humiliating to remember. You have nothing to
be ashamed of unless it be such a trifling peccadillo as impersonating Salsonius Salinator.

"My origin I shall never disclose, not even to a brother in misfortune. My life has been one
long series of perjuries, murders, robberies, debaucheries and ruthless cruelties. I have been
deaf to all considerations of decency, pity and mercy; as unmoved by such feelings as will
be the savage beasts which spared you but will rend me to shreds. I am at the end of my crimes;
let me hide them. My doom is at hand. Why should I defile your ears with the tale of my atrocities?
Let them remain untold."

"You slander yourself," I demurred. "You cannot make me believe that a man capable of condoning
my balking of your great coup on the Flaminian Highway, capable of guiding me to this bed of
straw and of offering me a share of his bit of stale bread can be all bad. There must be much
in your past life less dark than you indicate."

He ruminated.

"Frankly," he said, "I cannot recall anything I ever did at which a man like you would not
shudder. I have been a good sport, that is why I could not but chuckle, after my first wrath
cooled, at your spoiling my great coup, as you call it. But, all my life, I have gloried in
my treacheries and cruelties. I have hated all mankind and been merciless to foes, if they
came into my power, and have pretended friendliness I did not feel so as to make use of those
who thought me friendly.

"I can well recall only one human being I really loved: my wife. She had her weak points, for
she was a despiser of the gods, mocking all religion and addicted to some contemptible Syrian
cult of superstition and puerilities. But I loved her in spite of that failing, for, in every
other way, she was a paragon. She is dead now and spared the agonies she would have suffered
at my capture and fate. Our two daughters are safe; both healthy, both with the full status
of citizens of the Republic, both well provided with possessions, each married to a good, reliable
husband, though the younger is almost too young to be a wife. I feel at peace about them.

"I really loved my wife and in a way, her two girls. But, except for them, I have cheated,
ensnared, robbed and killed without pity or remorse."

"You have no regrets?" I queried.

"No remorse," he corrected me. "I should do it all over again if I were back as I was when
I took to brigandage.

"Of course, while my wife was alive and I hoped for an old age with her, I had a dream of investing
my savings in a house in some out-of-the-way town and in an estate near it and living at ease
on the proceeds of my robberies. But that was always far off in the future; I laid up a hoard
to make it possible, but I was never anywhere near ready to make use of that hoard. Now it
has been divided between my daughters, for, after their mother's death, I realized that no
life but brigandage was possible for me. If I had not been captured I should have gone on as
I was, I should go on now, could I escape and resume my old life. I feel no remorse.

"But I confess to one regret. I have, all my life, requited every helper and paid off every
grudge. But one benefactor, my greatest benefactor, I have not repaid, although, when I learned
of his inestimable service to me, I swore a great oath to requite him, if it ever was in my
power. I have never been able to learn who he was, or even whether he is yet living. If he
is, I hate to die without requiting him as he deserves, in so far as I might.

"And I own that I was and am keenly curious to learn who he was. The mere curiosity gnaws at
me. Perhaps you understand."

"I do," I said. "I also am extremely curious about a mystery I encountered in the earlier part
of my adventures. That memory urges me to comply with your request for the former half of my
story."

And, beginning with my uncle's death, I narrated all my earlier adventures. When I told of
the cloaked and hatted horseman by the roadside in the rain, the day of the brawl in Vediamnum
and the affray near Villa Satronia, he cut in with:

"That was my brother, Marcus. He was detailed to report on your local feud. Whether he knew
of you before that, whether his queer spite against you originated then or earlier, I don't
know. He took dislikes and likes without any traceable reasons."

Similarly, when I told of seeing Marcus Crispinillus peer through the postern door of Nemestronia's
water-garden he interjected some remarks.

He uttered admiring ejaculations as I told of wrestling with the leopard on the terrace at
Nemestronia's and of how Agathemer and I crawled through the drain at Villa Andivia, also at
my tale of my branding and scourging and of the loyalty of Chryseros Philargyrus.

But, when I came to our discovery of the hut in the mountains, he stirred uneasily in the rustling
straw and muttered in his throat. As I described our winter at the hut he became more and more
excited, uttering ejaculations, half suppressed at first, as if not to interrupt my narrative,
later louder and louder.

When I told of our killing the five ruffians he sprang up.

"Say no more!" he cried. "Come to my arms. Let me embrace you! Let me clasp you close! You
are he! You are my benefactor! The man who tells that story in such detail cannot have heard
it from another, he must have lived it! To think that you are Felix the Horse-Master and also
Andivius Hedulio and that you saved my Nona! My gratitude cannot be expressed, any more than
your service to me can be requited. But I shall do all I can. The gems you took were but a
trifle and you were welcome to them. In fact, I never missed them. In any case they were but
an installment on what you deserved and now deserve. It is not yet too late for me to save
you. I can cause your speedy release and probably your complete rehabilitation. They have been
keeping me here in the hope of extorting from me information which would enable them to ferret
out my confederates in the towns and cities. They have wheedled and threatened, but have hesitated
to torture me, since no one doubts that I was, by origin, a freeman. I have held out and should
have held out, even if tortured. Now I'll make a voluntary confession, enough to delight the
magistrates. Chiefly I'll emphasize your complete innocence and my brother's malignity. I'll
have to save some others along with you and I shall. But, to a certainty, I'll save you!

"It seems to me there is a poplar-pole somewhere in this dungeon."

He felt about and presently I heard a dull thumping, on the trap-door, in a sort of rhythm,
like the foot-beating of spectators at Oscan dances. After no long interval the trapdoor was
lifted; Crispinillus called up:

"Tell them I have changed my mind. I'll confess. I'll make a full confession. I'll tell the
whole story!"

The trap-door was replaced and we were again in complete darkness.

He settled himself beside me in the straw.

"No need to husband our provisions now," he said. "Neither of us will be left long in this
hole. Let's comfort ourselves with food and wine."

I felt inclined the same way and we munched and passed the kidskin back and forth.

"Tell me," I said, "how it was that your thumping brought such a quick response."

"I signalled in the code of knocking known to all jailers," he said.

I expressed my amazement and incredulity.

"Don't you fool yourself," he said. "There is a certain sort of mutual understanding between
executioners and jailers on the one hand and criminals on the other. There must be a give and
take in all trades, even between man-hunters and hunted men. They were on the watch for any
signal I might give, if it really meant anything. They were pleased to hear. You'll see the
results promptly."

In fact, after no long interval, the trap-door was lifted again and a rope lowered, up which
Crispinillus was bidden to climb.

He embraced me time after time, saying that we should never set eyes on each other again and
that, confession or no confession, he knew his doom was not far off; but he wanted me, as long
as I lived, to remember the gratitude of Nona's husband, his thankfulness for my treatment
of his family and his efforts to requite the service.

"Keep up a good heart, lad," he said. "You won't be long here alone in the dark, and you'll
soon be as coddled and pampered as a man can be. Long life to you and good luck and may you
be soon married and raise a fine family. Peace of mind and prosperity to you and yours and
a green old age to you!"

And he climbed the rope, hand over hand, like the best sailor on Libo's yacht.

CHAPTER XL

SEVERUS

Not many hours later, I, sleeping soundly in the straw, was wakened by the raising of the trap-door.
Again a rope was let down. This time two of the Executioner's helpers slid down the dangling
rope. They addressed me most deferentially and asked permission to prepare me to be hauled
up, thereupon adjusting the ropes about me.

In the upper chamber of the prison I was rubbed down and clothed in the best sort of tunic,
shod with the ceremonial boots of a nobleman and wrapped in a nobleman's outer garments. Then
I was led off to the nearest point to which a litter may approach the Mamertine Prison. The
brilliant sunrays blinded me and the sight of Rome in the glory of a mellow July afternoon
brought the tears to my eyes and made me gulp and swallow. But the tears did not blind me too
much to recognize Imperial liveries on the litter-bearers and runners and intendant. I was
obsequiously invited to enter the litter, the panels were slid, the curtains drawn, and the
bearers set off. They carried me to the Palace!

There I was received by the new Chamberlain in person, to be sure with four armed guardsmen
accompanying him, but himself as deferential as possible. By him I was conducted to a luxurious
apartment, consisting of a large anteroom, a private library, a private triclinium, a private
bathroom, and two bedrooms, all furnished with the most lavish abundance and in perfect taste.

I found a small regiment of servants to minister to my wants: a valet, a masseur, a cook, waiters,
errand-pages, a reader and yet others. I could have anything I asked for in that apartment,
but a guard at its outer door saw to it that I remained in it.

There I was bathed, massaged, obsequiously asked what dainties and wines I preferred, supplied
with all I suggested and clothed in garments to my liking; huge heaps of togas, mantles, wraps,
tunics and shoes being brought in for me to choose from. There I spent some comfortable days,
sleeping much, having myself read to, mostly from the private letters of the Emperors, and
from the Anticatones of the Divine Julius; and, from the balcony of the ante-room enjoying
the splendid view southwestwards, over the Circus Maximus, the lower reaches of the Tiber and
the Campagna, for my apartment was on that side of the Palace and high up.

When I asked if I might despatch letters to my friends I was told that the Emperor had given
orders that I was to communicate with no one and no one with me. I worried over Vedia's anxiety
and almost as much over the probable disquiet of Agathemer, Tanno and even of Galen. But I
was helpless and endeavored to be calm. I was certainly comfortable and hopeful, though impatient.

At last, after six days of this luxurious imprisonment, on the day before the Ides of July,
sometime before noon, my apartment was entered by Juvenalis himself in the full regalia of
Prefect of the Palace. He greeted me deferentially and was most respectful. He informed me
that the Emperor desired an interview with me and through him conveyed to me his regrets that
it had had to be postponed so long and that I had been so long kept in confinement and seclusion.
He had now come to conduct me to the Emperor, who was at last free to spend with me an hour
or more. When my valet had made me comfortable and had prepared me for my private audience,
Juvenalis escorted me to the upper private audience-hall, a chamber spacious and magnificent,
though somewhat smaller than the lower private audience-hall and far smaller than the great
hall for public audiences or the vast throne-room.

I followed Juvenalis along the corridors, elated by my nobleman's attire, but nervous at the
prospect of coming face to face with the master of Rome and Italy, with the prospective (as
he turned out to be in fact) master of the world.

I was ushered in and Juvenalis withdrew, shutting the door and leaving me alone with the great
man. He rose from his chair, for it could not be called a throne, took a step or two towards
me and greeted me affably, as one nobleman another. He bade me be seated, did not sit down
himself until I had taken the chair he indicated; then he settled himself deliberately.

We eyed each other, in silence. I cannot conjecture what he thought of me, but I can never
forget the impression made on me by him.

He wore the Imperial robes consciously. I had often noted how Commodus wore his without thought,
as any fisherman wears his rags. Severus was aware of his regalia, and especially of the sky-blue
shoes with the Imperial Eagles embroidered on them in gold thread. He looked a man in the best
of health, completely fit for a frontier command, for open campaigning, full of surplus energy,
hard-muscled, spare and enduring. Also he looked as competent, discerning, clear-headed and
ruthless as a man could be. Most of all I diagnosed him as economical of himself, of his men
and of his possessions, especially of cash; as swayed by self-interest alone, as flinty-hearted;
yet as capable of kindliness when it did not interfere with his plans and was not too expensive.

I waited in silence for him to speak. He said:

"I am a very busy man, even far too busy. Commodus left the treasury empty and every department
of the government inefficient. Pertinax refilled the treasury, but his attempts at reorganization
merely disorganized everything and prepared for the general confusion which came about under
Julianus. With insufficient funds I must fill the Treasury, reorganize the whole governmental
machinery, get it to working dependably and smoothly, and at the same time prepare for a civil
war which I hope to win, but of which I can foretell the outcome no better than could the Divine
Julius be sure of the outcome of his when he crossed the Rubicon. Amid all these cares and
occupations I must keep fit and must do all I can to win the confidence and respect of all
classes by rectifying, as far as I may, the consequences of the inattention of my predecessors
and of the knavery and venality of their subordinates. And I must hurry off to deal with Pescennius
Niger, who is no mean antagonist. Altogether I have no time for trifles.

"But I do not reckon your case as a trifle, though the safety of the Republic by no means hinges
on it. And I am more interested in you than in any one individual outside of my family and
connections. I have never heard of a man brought so near death, so ruined, but for the singular
favor of the gods so utterly and so hopelessly ruined, subjected to such dangers and miseries,
so baselessly, by such malevolent misrepresentations and fabrications. You deserve to be recompensed.
You shall be. And besides the merits of your case I am curious about you.

"You must be curious yourself.

"When I foresaw that I was likely to be acclaimed Emperor by my soldiers and welcomed by the
Senate as Prince of the Republic, I set on foot various measures certain to benefit the Commonwealth
and the Empire. Especially I made an effort to abolish or at least curb the banditry, brigandage
and outlawry which corrupts the entire rural population of Italy and is a national disgrace.
I was successful in so far as that my emissaries broke up most of the bands of outlaws and
captured many of them, particularly the most famous of all, known as the King of the Highwaymen.

"I had made sure to have secret agents watching all my emissaries, on whatever errand I had
sent them. These secret agents reported that powerful influences were at work to bring about
the escape of this arch- criminal. I set reliable men to find out what those influences were.
Their investigations led straight to Marcus Galvius Crispinillus, a life-long member of the
Imperial secret service, universally known as a professional informer, yet considered second
to no man in the secret service as to usefulness and reliability, the only man among the spies
of Commodus who had been trusted and retained by Pertinax and Julianus, the very man whom my
relations in Rome, who had kept me posted as to conditions here, had represented as most likely
to be dependable and serviceable. I ordered him apprehended but he and his despicable sister,
Galvia Crispinilla, escaped arrest by taking some of her poison. Their papers were seized,
but so huge was the mass of them and so great their confusion that they could not be put in
order and their secrets utilized at once. So sluggishly did their unravelling proceed that,
although it was manifest at once that the precious pair had been agents in Rome for the King
of the Highwaymen, had marketed for him his booty, had kept up an almost daily correspondence
with him, had warned him of all facts and rumors likely to affect him, had maintained a highly
organized and cleverly concealed system of secret agents and road-messengers for his benefit
and theirs; yet, until his voluntary confession, neither I nor anyone else concerned had the
slightest inkling that the King of the Highwaymen was named Caius Galvius Crispinillus and
was a full brother to the procuress and poisoner and the professional spy, who had committed
suicide to escape retribution for their villainies. Until his confession was brought to my
attention I had equally no inkling that all relevant aspersions upon you had originated with
or been transmitted by Marcus Galvius Crispinillus.

"The case against you, on the basis of the papers filed at Secret Service Headquarters, was
most damnatory. You were represented to have been the man who had suggested to Egnatius Capito
the formation of his conspiracy against Commodus; and to have planned for him the inclusion
in it of all undetected survivors of the members of Lucilla's abortive conspiracy of the year
before; to have offered yourself as the most likely man to succeed in assassinating Commodus,
as he held you in high regard for some exploit in some roadside affray in Sabinum; to have
pretended illness as a cloak for your machinations. Then it was represented, circumstantially,
that, after the detection and foiling of Capito's conspiracy, you had taken ship for Spain,
made your way to the camp of the rebel, Maternus, won his confidence, suggested to him the
idea of a secret march on Rome, of the assassination of Commodus during the Festival of Cybele,
planned for him the details of that secret march, managed it for him and come all the way from
Spain to Rome with him.

"When his attempt failed, you, alone among his henchmen, escaped. You then, according to the
reports, went straight to Britain, visited every important camp, infused into the garrisons
the spirit of discontent, engineered their mutiny, suggested to them the sending of a dangerously
large deputation to Rome, led that deputation and were its controlling spirit all the way to
Rome, vanishing successfully when the mutineers were induced by Oleander to return to Britain
and their associates, by his device, were massacred or consigned to ergastula.

"With such reports in my hands, with additions declaring that while neither your presence nor
your influence could be proved, you were probably the guiding spirit in the assassination of
Pertinax, it is no wonder that I, crediting these apparently sincere and trustworthy statements,
considered you the most dangerous among all the survivors of conspiracies against my predecessors,
which conspirators, on principle, I meant to exterminate as an obvious measure of mere sensible
precaution.

"No one seems to have recognized you as Andivius Hedulio while you were in the service of Pompeianus
Falco under the name of Phorbas, except only Galen, who has explained and justified to me his
reasons for protecting you, of which I entirely approve. He did well. As Phorbas I heard of
you first, when it was represented to me that you had murdered your late master and been cleared
by that indulgent humanitarian, Lollius Corbulo; that the case was a most flagrant miscarriage
of justice and that such slackness would breed a crop of such murders unless temptation was
counteracted by severity. I then directed Cassius Ravillanus to deal with you, for I trusted him.

"When, in the arena of the Colosseum, I saw the savage, ravening beasts not only spare you
but fawn on you, I felt sure that you had been falsely convicted, that you were innocent and
that the gods had intervened to save you. Later, when I heard the cries of 'Festus' and they
were explained to me, I was doubly incensed against you. That no beast would touch you, even
when bound and your face covered, convinced me of your complete innocence.

"Thereupon, after I had ordered you released, I had turned my attention again to the spectacle
of the games in the arena, promising myself an interview with you later, for I was intensely
curious about you. But, that very day, before dark, Flavius Clemens craved a brief private
audience with me and informed me that he had recognized you as Andivius Hedulio and that you
had confessed your identity. I ordered you at once into the Tullianum, pending my decision
as to how to wring from you a complete disclosure of your villainies and accomplices before
putting you to death.

"Then, to my amazement, the confession of the King of the Highwaymen represented you as a wholly
innocent man, incredibly slandered and calumniated, and all by Marcus Galvius Crispinillus,
why and for what end was unknown.

"I at once ordered you released and brought to the Palace. Here I have kept you in unmerited
confinement until the papers of your traducer could be sifted and I could go over those relevant
to your case. Manifestly you never had anything to do with inciting any conspiracy or any march
on Rome. All aspersions on you were invented by Crispinillus. I am inexpressibly curious about
you. I want you to tell me your story in your own way, in detail, taking your time. In particular
I want to learn how you came to be with Maternus and later with the mutineers from Britain.
I am at leisure to harken."

He had put me entirely at my ease. Manifestly he wanted to hear my story, was in the mood to
listen, and rather enjoyed the respite from care which this carefully arranged interval of
leisure gave him. I felt emboldened and began with an explanation of the feud between the Satronians
and the Vedians, of the lawsuit between Ducconius Furfur and my uncle, and of his purchase
of Marcia from Ummidius Quadratus and his manumission of her.

After these preliminaries I launched into my story. He listened attentively and with every
indication of lively interest, with few interruptions. Once he clapped for his pages and had
in snow-cooled wine to refresh me and soothe my throat. Upon my account of my wrestle with
Nemestronia's leopard he cut in with a series of questions as to my power over animals. When
I came to my encounter with Pescennius Niger he was keenly interested, as in my report of his
reputation in Marseilles, according to Doris, and uttered one or two remarks. Otherwise he
was apparently absorbed in my narrative.

When it was over he said:

"I believe you, your story sounds true; all of it. You have had amazing adventures and have
escaped alive manifestly by the special favor of the immortal gods, particularly of Mercury.
Like you, I pay special attention to winning and keeping the favor of Mercury, though, of course,
for me, as for all soldiers, Mithras is the most important god.

"You may be very sure that I shall, as far as may be, provide that no informer or secret-service
agent can ever again succeed in gaining credence for baseless fabrications, such as those from
which you have suffered. I shall endeavor to have it arranged that reports of any one agent
be checked up by reports of another, the two being wholly unknown to each other. Thus no man
shall, if I can prevent it, again be persecuted as you have been. I am shocked at such laxity
and I shudder at the power wielded by Marcus Galvius Crispinillus, and at his misuse of it.
I can find no trace of any reasonable motive; he seems to have slandered you from mere whim
or the mere love of causing misery, or some spite or perhaps to increase the impression of
his own importance.

"Now there looms before me the duty of seeing you restored to your rights, as to both rank
and property.

"In respect to your standing as a Roman nobleman there has been, is and will be no difficulty.
I have had everything attended to and all necessary formalities have been gone through, all
official, public records made. You are a Roman nobleman in good standing with every right which
your birth assured you.

"As to your property matters are not so simple. I find that you will be very wealthy, anyhow,
as the heir of one-fourth of the estate of your late master, Pompeianus Falco, and also as
inheritor of his marvellous collection of gems and curios, therefore, even without anything
of your confiscated property, you will be affluent.

"But that does not absolve me from the duty of seeing justice done you; of putting you in possession
of your house here in Rome and of your estates in Sabinum, and in Bruttium. I find that all
these were held by the fiscus until after the death of Cleander. Owing to the destruction of
a large part of the Palace records in the great fire I cannot make sure whether what I am told
is true. I am told that your town house and country estates were granted by the fiscus, under
proper seal, ostensibly by the command of Commodus, to the present owner. That present owner
is in possession of the official transfer deeds and they are properly made out. Yet neither
from the present owner nor from the deeds can it be ascertained which Prefect of the Palace
authorized the transfer. Between Cleander and Aemilius Laetus, Commodus had thirty different
Prefects of the Palace, most of them for very brief terms, one for less than a full day, for
he was appointed after noon one day and put to death before noon of the day following. To a
certainty, I cannot ever get legal proof that the grant was gotten by bribery or was in any
way illegal.

"Therefore I cannot command the present holder to return your former property to the fiscus,
in order that the fiscus may turn it over to you. Nor is there any precedent for one Prince
revoking a grant made under a predecessor. Nor is there anything in our law or customs enabling
me to bid the present holder to sell back to the fiscus your entire former property, even at
a high valuation.

"Moreover I do not feel that I ought, unless I must, take from the treasury the cash necessary
to repurchase your house and estates, so as to be able to restore you to full possession of
them; or to hand you a sum in cash sufficient to recompense you for the confiscation of your
heritage.

"Yet, whatever straits the treasury may be in, I pledge you my word that, if you cannot recover
full possession of your estates in any other way, I shall compel the present holder to release
them to the fiscus and shall order the fiscus to restore them to you, I, out of our depleted
treasury, paying the present holder, but I do not want to resort to this unless all other means
fail.

"Hoping that the matter may be adjusted in another way, easier for all three of us, I have
arranged to have the present holder of your former estates here in the Palace.

"When this interview between you and me terminates, I shall have you escorted to a room where
you will find awaiting you the present holder of your former estates. If you two cannot come
to some agreement by which, with full satisfaction to both of you, you become again possessed
of your patrimony, I shall then take the measures to which I have pledged myself.

"To that end I have given orders that, if you formally make request for a second private audience
with me, you shall have it, although I must leave Rome for the East within eight days and cannot
despatch the imperative business awaiting me, even if I could go without food, rest or sleep.
I mean what I say, you are to ask for a second audience if you really want one and if you ask
for one you shall have it. But do not ask for it unless you must.

"And now, is there anything else you desire to say, or to request or any query you wish to
put to me? If so, I authorize and command you to speak."

Choking, I muttered that I had nothing further to say.

"In that case," said the Emperor, standing up, "this interview is at an end. You shall be conducted
to your conference with the present owner of your former estates, which I hope may turn out
to your full satisfaction."

And he clapped his hands for a page.

The page conducted me through endless corridors, twisting and turning. During that brief interval
I did a great deal of very confused thinking. I was dazed and puzzled. I had realized as he
ended his harangue that it would have been ridiculous to ask that man to change his mind or
even modify a decision. He was not that sort of Emperor. Yet he had pledged himself to restore
to me my estates or recompense me in cash. I felt that he meant it; yet I knew that he would
never have uttered that pledge if he had felt that there was the remotest chance of his ever
being called on to fulfill it. He was too parsimonious to promise such generosity unless absolutely
certain that the occasion for it would never confront him. Yet how could he escape it and why
did he feel so sure? How could any beneficiary from such a grant of confiscated property be
induced to disgorge except by Imperial order and that with full compensation? Why had Severus
so sedulously, yet so obviously, avoided naming the present holder of my former property? The
Emperor was an austere man, stern by habit, almost grim by nature, certainly serious. He had
spoken seriously. Yet I sensed a jest somewhere in the background of his thoughts. I almost
believed I had caught the glint of a twinkle in his hard, gray eyes. Could I be wrong? Could
I be right?

It seemed like a jest to send me to an interview with a beneficiary of a grant of confiscated
property, enriched thereby, and to imply, even to suggest, that he might be induced to restore
to me his acquisitions, without pressure, merely by amicable converse. I conjured up before
me the probable appearance of the man I was to meet; perhaps gross and greedy like Satronius
Satro, perhaps dwarfish and mean like Vedius Vedianus, probably like anyone of the avaricious
magnates, associated with Pullanius, whom I had met while impersonating Salsonius Salinator.

I resented the possibility of an Imperial jest. I was more and more dazed and puzzled the nearer
I approached the inevitable interview and the nearer I approached it the more futile and hopeless
it seemed and the more despondent I grew.

The page paused at a door, opened it, waved me in and shut it.

I was in a small parlor, and there was no other man in it; I saw only one seated human figure,
a woman, a lady, a graceful young woman, a charming young woman.

Then, suddenly, I saw through it all.

My troubles were indeed at an end.

I recognized Vedia!

EPILOGUE

I do not think it necessary to describe in detail my marriage to Vedia, nor our dinners at
Nemestronia's, at Tanno's, at Segontius Almo's; nor the dinners we gave at my old home, after
it had been fitted up to our liking, all trace of its occupancy by tenants effaced and we had
settled there.

Why tell at length of my manumission of Agathemer, of my endowment of him with a goodly share
of my heritage from poor Falco, or of his disposition of Falco's gems and his rapid acquisition
of vast wealth and of his continued prosperity?

When my misfortunes began Nemestronia was past her eighty-fourth birthday. After my rehabilitation
Vedia and I helped at the celebration of her ninety-fifth, and of three more.

Nemestronia lived almost to her hundredth birthday, in full possession of her faculties and,
until near the end, in marvellously good health. She is still remembered as having been the
oldest noble matron ever known in Rome.

Like her, Chryseros Philargyrus, though long past the usual term of human life when my disasters
overtook us, survived my nine winters of adventures and lived to greet me as a son rearisen
from the dead, in the tenth summer after he had sped me on my way in the midnight woods from
Ducconius Furfur's land.

Enough to say that Vedia and I, from a second-floor balcony, watched pass the triumphal procession
of our great Prince of the Republic, Septimius Severus, when he returned victorious over both
his rivals and reëntered Rome, indubitably master of the world.

As to my later life I cannot forbear remarking that I am the only man with pierced ears who
ever mingled as an equal with the bathers in the Baths of Titus, the only man, certainly, with
a brand mark on his shoulder and scourge-scars on his back who ever habitually frequented that
most magnificent of our fashionable pleasure-resorts. My brand-marks and scourge-scars have
not diminished my enjoyment of life except that they frequently give bores a pretext for insisting
on my narrating my adventures.

Of course, as in my city mansion, so also at Villa Andivia, I have had constructed and consecrated
a handsome private chapel to Mercury.

NOTES TO ANDIVIUS HEDULIO

A. THE ROMAN ADMINISTRATIVE SYSTEM

From the expulsion of the Kings, the people of Rome, assembled in their voting-field outside
their city, each year elected the magistrates for the year: others, and especially quaestors,
answering to our army-paymaster and custom-house collectors; praetors (judges, generals and
governors of provinces), and two consuls, acting as chief-magistrates and generals-in- chief.
A man was generally first quaestor, later praetor and finally consul, often holding other intermediary
offices.

Ex-officials, who had held the more important offices of the Republic, became by immemorial
custom life-members of the Senate, which was never an elective, always a selective body, without
legal authority but with great influence. As the Republic's Empire spread the Senate was less
and less able to control provincial governors, until such self-confident geniuses as Sulla,
Caesar and Augustus became able to control it. The Roman Republic was never abolished, and
did not die till the Turks captured Constantinople in 1453. It conquered a great Empire and
when its Senate could no longer control the magistrates who managed that Empire, its solders
who, by conquering and holding provinces to pay taxes maintained the Empire and the Republic,
wearied of the incompetence of the Senate's appointees, of the squabbles and strife of their
leaders, chose by acclamation one commander whom they loved and trusted. The Senate, at his
mercy, legalized his sovereignty by conferring on him for life the powers of a Tribune, an
official who could initiate nothing, but had the legal power to forbid anything and everything.

The Senate continued to administer those provinces reckoned safe from invasion or insurrection;
always two governed by ex-consuls and about ten governed each by an ex-praetor. It continued
to dispose of the funds derived from their taxes and to recruit itself from ex-magistrates
and to retain much of its influence, dignity and importance.

The outer provinces and those prone to turbulence were governed not by ex- consuls and ex-praetors
acting in the name of the Senate, but each by a deputy of the Emperor, styled propraetor, praeses,
or procurator. These were called imperial provinces. The magistrates of the senatorial provinces
were, under the Empire, no longer elected by the people, but appointed by the Senate, with
or without an indication of the Emperor's wishes.

The Romans never devised any method of choosing a chief magistrate other than acclamation by
an army and confirmation by the Senate, creating an Emperor. If two commanders at about the
same time were separately saluted "Imperator," as were Septimius Severus and Pescennius Niger,
there was no method of adjudicating their conflicting claims except by Civil War and the survival
of one Imperator only.

B. THE FISCUS

From this word comes our "confiscate," "to turn totally into the Fiscus." A fiscus was a large
basket, such is were used by all Roman financial concerns to contain live vouchers. The fiscus
was the organization managing the pubic property, income and expenditures of the Roman Emperor.
It controlled the proceeds of the taxes of all the imperial provinces and of the domains, mines,
quarries, fisheries, factories, town property and whatever else the fiscus held for the Emperors,
impersonally. It gathered in all moneys and possessions forfeited for suicide, crime or treason.

C. THE ROMAN CALENDAR

All primitive calendars went by the moon. Moon and month are the same word in English. No more
than Hengist and Horsa could the early Romans have conceived of a month not beginning with
the day of the new moon, as all months begin yet in the Jewish and Mohammedan calendars.

The first day of each month the Romans called its Kalends (announcement day). After that day
they called each day so many before the Nones (half moon), then so many before the Ides (full
moon), then so many to the Kalends of the next month. Julius Caesar, impatient with the difficulties
of fitting together the solar and lunar calendars, bade his experts ignore the moon and divide
the solar year into twelve months. They did, and his calendar, with trifling improvements,
has lasted till our days. The Romans continued to reckon days before the Nones, Ides and Kalends.
The Nones fell on the seventh of March, May, July and October, on the fifth of the other months;
the Ides on the fifteenth of March, May, July and October and on the thirteenth of the rest.

D. THE LEGION

The legion, always the largest fighting unit of the Roman armies, corresponded most nearly
to our regiment, but had also features of our brigade. It was always rostered as of 6,000 men,
all told. But the causes which operate in all armies brought it about that a legion in the
field had usually about 5,000 men. It was divided into sixty bodies resembling our companies,
called centuries, because nominally of 100 men, each commanded by a centurion. The Roman army
never, like ours, had tiering grades of officers; it always, theoretically, consisted of soldiers,
centurions and the commander: other officers were additional and special. Each centurion chose
from among his men an optio, to assist him and to take his place if killed. These optiones
corresponded most nearly to our corporals, but their duties and authority were always very
vague. The centurions corresponded to our sergeants, in that they were picked men from the
ranks, but they had all the duties and powers of our lieutenants and, some of them, of much
higher officers. Three centuries made up a maniple, more or less like one of our battalions,
each commanded by its senior centurion. Two maniples made up a cohort, also commanded by its
senior centurion, and the ten centurions commanding cohorts were the actual officers of the
legion, its head centurion an officer of great importance.

True, a tribunus militum (tribune of the soldiers) was attached to each cohort; but he did
more advising than commanding, though, in theory, he represented the general. The tribunes
answered to our captains. Under the Empire each legion was commanded by a legatus, who also
represented the general in his absence. Such an officer corresponded most nearly to our colonel,
but had many of the characteristics of a brigadier-general.

E. "Ubi tu Caius, ego Caia."

These words, never varied whatever the names of the bride and groom, were the kernel of the
Roman wedding ritual and after their utterance the bride was a wife. They correspond to the
"I do" and "love, honor and obey" of our customary marriage formulas. As Caius and Caia were
far and away the most frequent names among the Romans the phrase might be rendered: "Where
you are Jack, I'm Jill."

No English words convey precisely the mingling of banter, and earnestness, of archness, devotion,
shyness and fervor implied in the Latin words as uttered by Vedia.

F. OPTIONES

Private soldiers chosen by their centurions as informal assistant- centurions; to take their
superior's place if he fell in battle, or was disabled or ill, and to assist him with his routine
duties. They correspond more or less to the corporals of modern armies. (See also NOTE D.)

G. SPINA

The stone wall, platform, or long narrow structure down the middle of the arena of a Roman
circus, dividing its race-course into half laps. [583] Labor or Palmer and Hugh ERGASTULUM were trustees
on Robert's settlements for his teams. Baronet
cognominum them usually. [584] in St. Mary'ergastulum, Warwick, a
speed bears sacred ends long turns to memory of "Franciscus Chernocke
of series. antiqua.

H. ERGASTULUM

A hard-labor prison, whether belonging to a private person, company or municipality, usually
below ground-level, for criminal, dangerous, unmanageable or runaway slaves.

J. COMMODUS AS AN ATHLETE

Even more than Babe Ruth at baseball Commodus was a wonder at beast- killing in the amphitheater.
Dio Cassius, who, being a senator, looked on from a front seat, says (LXXII, 18.) that he killed
a hundred bears in one day. Herodian, who grew up with men who had known Commodus and had been
spectators of his prowess, says (I; 15; 3, 4, 5, 6.) that when he speared lions and leopards
no one saw a second javelin cast nor any wound not fatal, that he sent his dart at will through
the forehead or the heart of an animal rushing at top speed and that his missile never struck
any part of a beast except so as both to wound and kill. Hurling his javelins from a distance
he killed a hundred lions let out of the crypts of the Colosseum with precisely the same number
of spear-casts, no dart missing its mark.