THIRTEEN
  HISTORICAL
  MARINE
  PAINTINGS

  BY

  EDWARD MORAN

  REPRESENTING
  THIRTEEN CHAPTERS
  OF
  AMERICAN HISTORY

  [Decoration]

  By THEODORE SUTRO

  1905

  THIRTEEN CHAPTERS
  OF
  AMERICAN HISTORY

  REPRESENTED
  BY THE
  EDWARD MORAN
  SERIES OF
  THIRTEEN HISTORICAL
  MARINE PAINTINGS

  [Decoration]

  By THEODORE SUTRO

  1905

  NEW YORK:

  THEODORE SUTRO, 280 BROADWAY

  AND

  THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO.
  PUBLISHER'S AGENTS,
  33-37 EAST 17TH STREET.

  $1.50 net. Before the year, Jose was the father of another creature.

Apart weird way to have to trust a child to foreign hands, and excluding fertility Manuela,
the existence of Don Jose was not such as to weave with it a novel.

In many cities was, the work consumed his days and nights the coffee and the leisure reading newspapers,
who was very fond, preferring to progressives: the house, perhaps never considered not certain,
always had little or no attachment. Each transfer was auction, and thus could refer to when old than in
many or few years of service had stayed in forty-two beds, past and obeyed by twenty offices
in more than thirty heads, none of whom he could complain. Don José was born to an employee,
his low intelligence not allowed the luxury of having his own ideas, and it lacked character
and initiative exposure to be a martyr for getting to reform routines. Their impressions, usually little
intense, also kept him away from the excitement and apathy: its great virtue was to love honored
to work with that tenacity of the middle reaches the enviable record name. Something, however,
infuriated him: Carlism. To speak against the tiger Maestrazgo, to Don Luis Fernandez de Cordova
on top of Zumalacárregui and the Espartero clouds, he encouraged his eyes, his tongue gained
strength, color words, and did wonders with the memory. He knew few details of battles, fighting,
games and both armies were marching from the first attempts of Don Carlos María Isidro to the embrace
of Vergara, so that, for the months when the action begins this story followed with great interest
the second significant rise of the absolutist, who always called rebels, because the word seemed
to wrap something offensive. As never left home, his main desire was to buy her newspaper supplements, flyers
or extraordinary which at the year 1872 were published in prodigious numbers, and few friends
went to see him knew their favorite conversation was the course of the war, news of which
he commented with memories of the campaign from 33 to 40, and military movements then, now, by way
of his, to be repeated. But what really impressed listening to was that when dealing with priests
who sent items, spoke of them as the other leaders, Full disregarding his priestly character, but
despite his hatred Carlism exploited the occasion to condemn the conduct of the clergy who did
this. Were just judge them as military commanders greater or lesser importance, but not daring
to download its outrage on them because as ministers of peace, leave the field to kill fellow men.
Sometimes phrases that eluded him, implied that the clergy did not want it, but never out of his
mouth insults and aggressive phrases, and if someone said them in his presence, not only abstained
from him chorus, but seeking to twist the spin conversation. People of their privacy, knowing
that this was the foundation were Fates of adjectives hard to talk about bad priests, and
not spare time instead of compliment to any chaplain who was distinguished by good thing, but
with this we Don Jose does not say in a clear its views on the people of the cloth.
 That their execution required over fifteen years of ceaseless labor and the
closest historical study is not surprising. The localities, the ships, the armament, the personages,
the costumes, the weapons and all the incidents connected with each epoch are minutely and
correctly represented, in so far as existing records rendered that possible. And yet, interwoven
with each canvas, is a tone so poetic and imaginative that stamps it at once as the offspring
of genius and lifts it far above the merely photographic and realistic. But as well
as a lot of pride not only marry the Comte de Onis, or you, the two only parties that are in
Lancia for her, the count by the nobility and you for the money. Luis is a very strange man,
I believe it unable to marry. She is convinced now of the same. He has no more than you, and
you will be after you eat the fig ... Furthermore, more than any other say anything, women like
men like you, strong ... because you are an oak tree guy - he said turning to head in admiration.

Garnet
let out a roar corroborating.

The fairy moved her hands over his torso, as deep knowledge of masculine forms.

- What muscles, boy! What a man!

- With these guys you see here - said the Indian with pride - you
have won many thousands of dollars.

- How?

Loading "bags?

- Bags! - Maroon said smiling contemptuously pa .-- That is the mob. Sugar Boxes as cars!

The bomb was deserted at that hour. It was a huge walk-shaped living room, newly built on top of
the famous forest of San Francisco, where it reigned throughout. This forest stout oak, aged, twisted,
some of whom belonged to the primeval forest where he founded the monastery that gave birth to
Lancia, served as a recreational site the population to its first houses came. Remained always
in sad neglect; but the last municipal corporation had carried out reforms in the Magna had
earned the applause of the innovative spirits: a journey, some little gardens around and sanded
street among the trees, put it in an easy commute to the city. The days of work he walked no more
than a few priests with their long black cloaks and huge shovel hat, carrying a secular middle,
two or three gangs disputing Indians aloud about the price changes or the value of solar Mauregato
Street, newly opened and as it valetudinarian, which came in the early hours in the sun, and retired
coughing as he felt the dampness of the evening.

I have deemed it proper to make this explanation, as it is through my connection as counsel
for Mrs. Moran throughout this litigation that the occasion has presented itself for this publication,
and of giving to the public the opportunity to examine and enjoy, to the fullest extent, these
great pictures at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.

It may be added that although these paintings have occasionally been viewed by artists, they
have never before been publicly exhibited as a series except for a very short period in the
year 1900 in Philadelphia and in Washington. His
dapper lacked elaborate ways and annoying, and his sentences were exempt from that vulgar
language does a man equal to the other: as he spoke always something original, its sadness seemed
sincere, grace had a bitter aftertaste. Peace does not could analyze what lay it, but liked
to talk to Pepe, who always called Miss, speaking much better than most of the gentlemen that have
seen one night at a dance called her by her first name.


With reference to the exhibition of these paintings at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, I quote
from a full page illustrated article which appeared in the New York Herald on Sunday, November
6, 1904, as follows:

