General Beaumont presented to him eighty flags captured from the enemy by his division, and
Colonel Gerard also presented sixty taken from Blucher at the battle of Wismar.  Madgeburg
had capitulated, and a garrison of sixty thousand men had marched out under the eyes of General
Savary.  Marshal Mortier occupied Hanover in the name of France, and Prince Murat was on the
point of entering Warsaw after driving out the Russians.

War was about to recommence, or rather to be continued, against the latter; and since the Prussian
army could now be regarded as entirely vanquished, the Emperor left Berlin in order to personally
conduct operations against the Russians.

We traveled in the little coaches of the country; and as was the rule always on our journeys,
the carriage of the grand marshal preceded that of the Emperor.  The season, and the passage
of such large numbers of artillery, had rendered the roads frightful; but notwithstanding this
we traveled very rapidly, until at last between Kutow and Warsaw, the grand marshal's carriage
was upset, and his collarbone broken.  The Emperor arrived a short time after this unfortunate
accident, and had him borne under his own eyes into the nearest post-house.  We always carried
with us a portable medicine-chest in order that needed help might be promptly given to the
wounded.  His Majesty placed him in the hands of the surgeon, and did not leave him till he
had seen the first bandage applied.

At Warsaw, where his Majesty passed the entire month of January, 1807, he occupied the grand
palace.  The Polish nobility, eager to pay their court to him, gave in his honor magnificent
fetes and brilliant balls, at which were present all the wealthiest and most distinguished
inhabitants of Warsaw.

At one of these reunions the Emperor's attention was drawn to a young Polish lady named Madame
Valevska, twenty-two years of age, who had just married an old noble of exacting temper and
extremely harsh manners, more in love with his titles than with his wife, whom, however, he
loved devotedly, and by whom he was more respected than loved.  The Emperor experienced much
pleasure at the sight of this lady, who attracted his attention at the first glance.  She was
a blonde, with blue eyes, and skin of dazzling whiteness; of medium height, with a charming
and beautifully proportioned figure.  The Emperor having approached her, immediately began
a conversation, which she sustained with much grace and intelligence, showing that she had
received a fine education, and the slight shade of melancholy diffused over her whole person
rendered her still more seductive.

His Majesty thought he beheld in her a woman who had been sacrificed, and was unhappy in her
domestic relations; and the interest with which this idea inspired him caused him to be more
interested in her than he had ever been in any woman, a fact of which she could not fail to
be conscious.  The day after the ball, the Emperor seemed to me unusually agitated; he rose
from his chair, paced to and fro, took his seat and rose again, until I thought I should never
finish dressing him. Immediately after breakfast he ordered a person, whose name I shall not
give, to pay a visit to Madame Valevska, and inform her of his subjugation and his wishes.
She proudly refused propositions which were perhaps too brusque, or which perhaps the coquetry
natural to all women led her to repulse; and though the hero pleased her, and the idea of a
lover resplendent with power and glory revolved doubtless over and over in her brain, she had
no idea of surrendering thus without a struggle. The great personage returned in confusion,
much astonished that he had not succeeded in his mission; and the next day when the Emperor
rose I found him still preoccupied, and he did not utter a word, although he was in the habit
of talking to me at this time.  He had written to Madame Valevska several times, but she had
not replied; and his vanity was much piqued by such unaccustomed indifference.  At last his
affecting appeals having touched Madame Valevska's heart, she consented to an interview between
ten and eleven o'clock that evening, which took place at the appointed time.  She returned
a few days after at the same hour, and her visits continued until the Emperor's departure.

Two months after the Emperor sent for her; and she joined him at his headquarters in Finkenstein,
where she remained from this time, leaving at Warsaw her old husband, who, deeply wounded both
in his honor and his affections, wished never to see again the wife who had abandoned him.
Madame Valevska remained with the Emperor until his departure, and then returned to her family,
constantly evincing the most devoted and, at the same time, disinterested affection.  The Emperor
seemed to appreciate perfectly the charms of this angelic woman, whose gentle and self- abnegating
character made a profound impression on me.  As they took their meals together, and I served
them alone, I was thus in a position to enjoy their conversation, which was always amiable,
gay, and animated on the Emperor's part; tender, impassioned, and melancholy on that of Madame
Valevska.  When his Majesty was absent, Madame Valevska passed all her time, either in reading,
or viewing through the lattice blinds of the Emperor's rooms the parades and evolutions which
took place in the court of honor of the chateau, and which he often commanded in person.  Such
was her life, like her disposition, ever calm and equable; and this loveliness of character
charmed the Emperor, and made him each day more and more her slave.

After the battle of Wagram, in 1809, the Emperor took up his residence at the palace of Schoenbrunn,
and sent immediately for Madame Valevska, for whom a charming house had been rented and furnished
in one of the faubourgs of Vienna, a short distance from Schoenbrunn.  I went mysteriously
to bring her every evening in a close carriage, with a single servant, without livery; she
entered by a secret door, and was introduced into the Emperor's apartments.  The road, although
very short, was not without danger, especially in rainy weather, on account of ruts and holes
which were encountered at every step; and the Emperor said to me almost every day, "Be very
careful, Constant, it has rained to-day; the road will be bad.  Are you sure you have a good
driver?  Is the carriage in good condition?"  and other questions of the same kind, which evidenced
the deep and sincere affection he felt for Madame Valevska. The Emperor was not wrong, besides,
in urging me to be careful; for one evening, when we had left Madame Valevska's residence a
little later than usual, the coachman upset us, and in trying to avoid a rut, drove the carriage
over the edge of the road.  I was on the right of Madame Valevska and the carriage fell on
that side, in such a position that I alone felt the shock of the fall, since Madame Valevska
falling on me, received no injury.  I was glad to be the means of saving her, and when I said
this she expressed her gratitude with a grace peculiarly her own. My injuries were slight;
and I began to laugh the first, in which Madame Valevska soon joined, and she related our accident
to his Majesty immediately on our arrival.

I could not undertake to describe all the care and attentions which the Emperor lavished upon
her.  He had her brought to Paris, accompanied by her brother, a very distinguished officer,
and her maid, and gave the grand marshal orders to purchase for her a pretty residence in the
Chaussee-d'Antin.  Madame Valevska was very happy, and often said to me, "All my thoughts,
all my inspirations, come from him, and return to him; he is all my happiness, my future, my
life!  "She never left her house except to come to the private apartments at the Tuileries,
and when this happiness could not be granted, went neither to the theater, the promenade, nor
in society, but remained at home, seeing only very few persons, and writing to the Emperor
every day.  At length she gave birth to a son, [Count Walewski, born 1810; minister to England,
1852; minister of foreign affairs, 1855-1860; died 1868.] who bore a striking resemblance to
the Emperor, to whom this event was a source of great joy; and he hastened to her as soon as
it was possible to escape from the chateau, and taking the child in his arms, and caressing
him, as he had just caressed the mother, said to him, "I make you a count."  Later we shall
see this son receiving at Fontainebleau a final proof of affection.

Madame Valevska reared her son at her residence, never leaving him, and carried him often to
the chateau, where I admitted them by the dark staircase, and when either was sick the Emperor
sent to them Monsieur Corvisart.  This skillful physician had on one occasion the happiness
of saving the life of the young count in a dangerous illness.

Madame Valevska had a gold ring made for the Emperor, around which she twined her beautiful
blonde hair, and on the inside of the ring were engraved these words:

"When you cease to love me, do not forget that I love you."

The Emperor gave her no other name but Marie.

I have perhaps devoted too much space to this liaison of the Emperor: but Madame Valevska was
entirely different from the other women whose favor his Majesty obtained; and she was worthy
to be named the La Valliere of the Emperor, who, however, did not show himself ungrateful towards
her, as did Louis XIV.  towards the only woman by whom he was beloved.  Those who had, like
myself, the happiness of knowing and seeing her intimately must have preserved memories of
her which will enable them to comprehend why in my opinion there exists so great a distance
between Madame Valevska, the tender and modest woman, rearing in retirement the son she bore
to the Emperor, and the favorites of the conqueror of Austerlitz.

CHAPTER II.

The Russians, being incited to this campaign by the remembrance of the defeat of Austerlitz,
and by the fear of seeing Poland snatched from their grasp, were not deterred by the winter
season, and resolved to open the attack on the Emperor at once; and as the latter was not the
man to allow himself to be forestalled, he consequently abandoned his winter quarters, and
quitted Warsaw at the end of January.  On the 8th of February the two armies met at Eylau;
and there took place, as is well known, a bloody battle, in which both sides showed equal courage,
and nearly fifteen thousand were left dead on the field of battle, equally divided in number
between the French and Russians.  The gain, or rather the loss, was the same to both armies;
and a 'Te Deum' was chanted at St. Petersburg as well as at Paris, instead of the 'De Profundis',
which would have been much more appropriate.  His Majesty complained bitterly on returning
to his headquarters that the order he had sent to General Bernadotte had not been executed,
and in consequence of this his corps had taken no part in the battle, and expressed his firm
conviction that the victory, which remained in doubt between the Emperor and General Benningsen,
would have been decided in favor of the former had a fresh army-corps arrived during the battle,
according to the Emperor's calculations.  Most unfortunately the aide-de-camp bearing the Emperor's
orders to the Prince of Ponte-Corvo had fallen into the hands of a party of Cossacks; and when
the Emperor was informed of this circumstance the day after the battle, his resentment was
appeased, though not his disappointment.  Our troops bivouacked on the field of battle, which
his Majesty visited three times, for the purpose of directing the assistance of the wounded,
and removal of the dead.

Generals d'Hautpoult, Corbineau, and Boursier were mortally wounded at Eylau; and it seems
to me I can still hear the brave d'Hautpoult saying to his Majesty, just as he dashed off at
a gallop to charge the enemy: "Sire, you will now see my great claws; they will pierce through
the enemy's squares as if they were butter"  An hour after he was no more. One of his regiments,
being engaged in the interval with the Russian army, was mowed down with grape-shot, and hacked
to pieces by the Cossacks, only eighteen men being left.  General d'Hautpoult, forced to fall
back three times with his division, led it back twice to the charge; and as he threw himself
against the enemy the third time shouted loudly, "Forward, cuirassiers, in God's name!  forward,
my brave cuirassiers?" But the grapeshot had mowed down too many of these brave fellows; very
few were left to follow their chief, and he soon fell pierced with wounds in the midst of a
square of Russians into which he had rushed almost alone.

I think it was in this battle also that General Ordenerl killed with his own hands a general
officer of the enemy.  The Emperor asked if he could not have taken him alive.  "Sire," replied
the general with his strong German accent, "I gave him only one blow, but I tried to make it
a good one."   On the very morning of the battle, General Corbineau, the Emperor's aide-de-camp,
while at breakfast with the officers on duty, declared to them that he was oppressed by the
saddest presentiments; but these gentlemen, attempting to divert his mind, turned the affair
into a joke.  General Corbineau a few moments after received an order from his Majesty, and
not finding some money he wished at Monsieur de Meneval's quarters, came to me, and I gave
it to him from the Emperor's private purse; at the end of a few hours I met Monsieur de Meneval,
to whom I rendered an account of General Corbineau's request, and the sum I had lent him. 
I was still speaking to Monsieur de Meneval, when an officer passing at a gallop gave us the
sad news of the general's death.  I have never forgotten the impression made on me by this
sad news, and I still find no explanation of the strange mental distress which gave warning
to this brave soldier of his approaching end.

Poland was relying upon the Emperor to re-establish her independence, and consequently the
Poles were filled with hope and enthusiasm on witnessing the arrival of the French army.  As
for our soldiers, this winter campaign was most distasteful to them; for cold and wretchedness,
bad weather and bad roads, had inspired them with an extreme aversion to this country.

In a review at Warsaw, at which the inhabitants crowded around our troops, a soldier began
to swear roundly against the snow and mud, and, as a consequence, against Poland and the Poles.
"You are wrong, Monsieur soldier," replied a young lady of a good bourgeois family of the town,
"not to love our country, for we love the French very much."--"You are doubtless very lovable,
mademoiselle," replied the soldier; "but if you wish to persuade me of the truth of what you
say, you will prepare us a good dinner, my comrade and I."--"Come, then, messieurs," said the
parents of the young Pole now advancing, "and we will drink together to the health of your
Emperor."  And they really carried off with them the two soldiers, who partook of the best
dinner the country afforded.

The soldiers were accustomed to say that four words formed the basis of the Polish language,--kleba?
niema; "bread?  there is none;" voia? sara; "water?  they have gone to draw it."

As the Emperor was one day passing through a column of infantry in the suburbs of Mysigniez,
where the troops endured great privations since the bad roads prevented the arrival of supplies,
"Papa, kleba," cried a soldier.   "Niema," immediately replied the Emperor.  The whole column
burst into shouts of laughter, and no further request was made.

During the Emperor's somewhat extended stay at Finkenstein, he received a visit from the Persian
ambassador, and a few grand reviews were held in his honor.  His Majesty sent in return an
embassy to the Shah, at the head of which he placed General Gardanne, who it was then said
had an especial reason for wishing to visit Persia.  It was rumored that one of his relations,
after a long residence at Teheran, had been compelled, having taken part in an insurrection
against the Franks, to quit this capital, and before his flight had buried a considerable treasure
in a certain spot, the description of which he had carried to France.  I will add, as a finale
to this story, some facts which I have since learned. General Gardanne found the capital in
a state of confusion; and being able neither to locate the spot nor discover the treasure,
returned from his embassy with empty hands.

Our stay at Finkenstein became very tiresome; and in order to while away the time, his Majesty
sometimes played with his generals and aides-de- camp.  The game was usually vingt-et-un; and
the Great Captain took much pleasure in cheating, holding through several deals the cards necessary
to complete the required number, and was much amused when he won the game by this finesse.
I furnished the sum necessary for his game, and as soon as he returned to his quarters received
orders to make out his account. He always gave me half of his gains, and I divided the remainder
between the ordinary valets de chambre.

I have no intention, in this journal, of conforming to a very exact order of dates; and whenever
there recurs to my memory a fact or an anecdote which seems to me deserving of mention, I shall
jot it down, at whatever point of my narrative I may have then reached, fearing lest, should
I defer it to its proper epoch, it might be forgotten.  In pursuance of this plan I shall here
relate, in passing, some souvenirs of Saint-Cloud or the Tuileries, although we are now in
camp at Finkenstein.  The pastimes in which his Majesty and his general officers indulged recalled
these anecdotes to my recollection.  These gentlemen often made wagers or bets among themselves;
and I heard the Duke of Vicenza one day bet that Monsieur Jardin, junior, equerry of his Majesty,
mounted backwards on his horse, could reach the end of the avenue in front of the chateau in
the space of a few moments; which bet the equerry won.

Messieurs Fain, Meneval, and Ivan once played a singular joke on Monsieur B.  d'A---- , who,
they knew, was subject to frequent attacks of gallantry.  They dressed a young man in woman's
clothes, and sent him to promenade, thus disguised, in an avenue near the chateau.  Monsieur
B.  d'A---- was very near-sighted, and generally used an eyeglass.  These gentlemen invited
him to take a walk; and as soon as he was outside the door, he perceived the beautiful promenader,
and could not restrain an exclamation of surprise and joy at the sight.

His friends feigned to share his delight, and urged him, as the most enterprising, to make
the first advances, whereupon, in great excitement, he hastened after the pretended young lady,
whom they had taught his role perfectly.  Monsieur d'A---- outdid himself in politeness, in
attentions, in offers of service, insisting eagerly on doing the honors of the chateau to his
new conquest.  The other acted his part perfectly; and after many coquettish airs on his side,
and many protestations on the part of Monsieur d'A, a rendezvous was made for that very evening;
and the lover, radiant with hope, returned to his friends, maintaining much discretion and
reserve as to his good fortune, while he really would have liked to devour the time which must
pass before the day was over.  At last the evening arrived which was to put an end to his impatience,
and bring the time of his interview; and his disappointment and rage may be imagined when he
discovered the deception which had been practiced on him.  Monsieur d'A---- wished at first
to challenge the authors and actors in this hoax, and could with great difficulty be appeased.

It was, I think, on the return from this campaign, that Prince Jerome saw at Breslau, at the
theater of that town, a young and very pretty actress, who played her part badly, but sang
very well.  He made advances, which she received coolly: but kings do not sigh long in vain;
they place too heavy a weight in the balance against discretion.  His Majesty, the King of
Westphalia, carried off his conquest to Cassel, and at the end of a short time she was married
to his first valet de chambre, Albertoni, whose Italian morals were not shocked by this marriage.
Some disagreement, the cause, of which I do not know, having caused Albertoni to quit the king,
he returned to Paris with his wife, and engaged in speculations, in which he lost all that
he had gained, and I have been told that he returned to Italy.  One thing that always appeared
to me extraordinary was the jealousy of Albertoni towards his wife--an exacting jealousy which
kept his eyes open towards all men except the king; for I am well convinced that the liaison
continued after their marriage.

The brothers of the Emperor, although kings, were sometimes kept waiting in the Emperor's antechamber.
King Jerome came one morning by order of the Emperor, who, having not yet risen, told me to
beg the King of Westphalia to wait.  As the Emperor wished to sleep a little longer, I remained
with the other servants in the saloon which was used as an antechamber, and the king waited
with us; I do not say in patience, for he constantly moved from chair to chair, promenaded
back and forth between the window and the fireplace, manifesting much annoyance, and speaking
now and then to me, whom he always treated with great kindness. Thus more than half an hour
passed; and at last I entered the Emperor's room, and when he had put on his dressing-gown,
informed him that his Majesty was waiting, and after introducing him, I withdrew.  The Emperor
gave him a cool reception, and lectured him severely, and as he spoke very loud, I heard him
against my will; but the king made his excuses in so low a tone that I could not hear a word
of his justification.  Such scenes were often repeated, for the prince was dissipated and prodigal,
which displeased the Emperor above all things else, and for which he reproved him severely,
although he loved him, or rather because he loved him so much; for it is remarkable, that notwithstanding
the frequent causes of displeasure which his family gave him, the Emperor still felt for all
his relations the warmest affection.

A short time after the taking of Dantzig (May 24, 1807), the Emperor, wishing to reward Marshal
Lefebvre for the recent services which he had rendered, had him summoned at six o'clock in
the morning.  His Majesty was in consultation with the chief-of-staff of the army when the
arrival of the marshal was announced.  "Ah!"  said he to Berthier, "the duke does not delay."
Then, turning to the officer on duty, "Say to the Duke of Dantzig that I have summoned him
so early in order that he may breakfast with me."  The officer, thinking that the Emperor had
misunderstood the name, remarked to him, that the person who awaited his orders was not the
Duke of Dantzig, but Marshal Lefebvre.  "It seems, monsieur, that you think me more capable
of making a count [faire un conte] than a duke."

The officer was somewhat disconcerted by this reply; but the Emperor reassured him with a smile,
and said, "Go, give the duke my invitation, and say to him that in a quarter of an hour breakfast
will be served." The officer returned to the marshal, who was, of course, very anxious to know
why the Emperor had summoned him.  "Monsieur le Due, the Emperor invites you to breakfast with
him, and begs you to wait a quarter of an hour."  The marshal, not having noticed the new title
which the officer gave him, replied by a nod, and seated himself on a folding chair on the
back of which hung the Emperor's sword, which the marshal inspected and touched with admiration
and respect.  The quarter of an hour passed, when another ordnance officer came to summon the
marshal to the Emperor, who was already at table with the chief-of-staff; and as he entered,
the Emperor saluted him with, "Good-day, Monsieur le Due; be seated next to me."

The marshal, astonished at being addressed by this title, thought at first that his Majesty
was jesting; but seeing that he made a point of calling him Monsieur le, Due he was overcome
with astonishment.  The Emperor, to increase his embarrassment, said to him, "Do you like chocolate,
Monsieur le Duc?"--"But--yes, Sire."--"Well, we have none for breakfast, but I will give you
a pound from the very town of Dantzig; for since you have conquered it, it is but just that
it should make you some return."  Thereupon the Emperor left the table, opened a little casket,
took therefrom a package in the shape of a long square, and handed it to Marshal Lefebvre,
saying to him, "Duke of Dantzig, accept this chocolate; little gifts preserve friendship."
The marshal thanked his Majesty, put the chocolate in his pocket, and took his seat again at
table with the Emperor and Marshal Berthier.  A 'pate' in the shape of the town of Dantzig
was in the midst of the table; and when this was to be served the Emperor said to the new duke,
"They could not have given this dish a form which would have pleased me more.  Make the attack,
Monsieur le Duc; behold your conquest; it is yours to do the honors."  The duke obeyed; and
the three guests ate of the pie, which they found much to their taste.  On his return, the
marshal, Duke of Dantzig, suspecting a surprise in the little package which the Emperor had
given him, hastened to open it, and found a hundred thousand crowns in bank-notes.  In imitation
of this magnificent present, the custom was established in the army of calling money, whether
in pieces or in bank-notes, Dantzig chocolate; and when the soldiers wished to be treated by
any comrade who happened to have a little money in his pocket, would say to him, "Come, now,
have you no Dantzig chocolate in your pocket?"

The almost superstitious fancy of his Majesty the Emperor in regard to coincidences in dates
and anniversaries was strengthened still more by the victory of Friedland, which was gained
on June 14, 1807, seven years to the very day after the battle of Marengo.  The severity of
the winter, the difficulty in furnishing supplies (for which the Emperor had however made every
possible provision and arrangement), added to the obstinate courage of the Russians, had made
this a severe campaign, especially to conquerors whom the incredible rapidity of their successes
in Prussia had accustomed to sudden conquests.  The division of glory which he had been compelled
to make with the Russians was a new experience in the Emperor's military career, but at Friedland
he regained his advantage and his former superiority.  His Majesty, by a feigned retreat, in
which he let the enemy see only a part of his forces, drew the Russians into a decoy on the
Elbe, so complete that they found themselves shut in between that river and our army.  This
victory was gained by troops of the line and cavalry; and the Emperor did not even find it
necessary to use his Guards, while those of the Emperor Alexander was almost entirely destroyed
in protecting the retreat, or rather the flight, of the Russians, who could escape from the
pursuit of our soldiers only by the bridge of Friedland, a few narrow pontoons, and an almost
impassable ford.

The regiments of the line in the French army covered the plain; and the Emperor, occupying
a post of observation on a height whence he could overlook the whole field of battle, was seated
in an armchair near a mill, surrounded by his staff.  I never saw him in a gayer mood, as he
conversed with the generals who awaited his orders, and seemed to enjoy eating the black Russian
bread which was baked in the shape of bricks. This bread, made from inferior rye flour and
full of long straws, was the food of all the soldiers; and they knew that his Majesty ate it
as well as themselves.  The beautiful weather favored the skillful maneuvers of the army, and
they performed prodigies of valor.  The cavalry charges especially were executed with so much
precision that the Emperor sent his congratulations to the regiments.

About four o'clock in the afternoon, when the two armies were pressing each other on every
side, and thousands of cannon caused the earth to tremble, the Emperor exclaimed, "If this
continues two hours longer, the French army will be left standing on the plain alone."  A few
moments after he gave orders to the Count Dorsenne,  general of the foot grenadiers of the
Old Guard, to fire on a brick-yard, behind which masses of Russians and Prussians were intrenched;
and in the twinkling of an eye they were compelled to abandon this position, and a horde of
sharpshooters set out in pursuit of the fugitives.

The Guard made this movement at five o'clock, and at six the battle was entirely won.  The
Emperor said to those who were near him, while admiring the splendid behavior of the Guard,
"Look at those brave fellows, with a good-will they would run over the stone-slingers and pop-
guns of the line, in order to teach them to charge without waiting for them; but it would have
been useless, as the work has been well done without them."

His Majesty went in person to compliment several regiments which had fought the whole day.
A few words, a smile, a salute of the hand, even a nod, was sufficient recompense to these
brave fellows who had just been crowned with victory.

The number of the dead and prisoners was enormous; and seventy banners, with all the equipments
of the Russian army, were left in the hands of the French.

After this decisive day, the Emperor of Russia, who had rejected the proposals made by his
Majesty after the battle of Eylau, found himself much disposed to make the game on his own
account; and General Bennigsen consequently demanded an armistice in the name of his Emperor,
which his Majesty granted; and a short time after a treaty of peace was signed, and the famous
interview between the two sovereigns held on the banks of the Niemen.  I shall pass over rapidly
the details of this meeting, which have been published and repeated innumerable times.  His
Majesty and the young Czar conceived a mutual affection from the first moment of their meeting,
and each gave fetes and amusements in honor of the other.  They were in inseparable in public
and private, and passed hours together in meetings for pleasure only, from which all intruders
were carefully excluded.  The town of Tilsit was declared neutral; and French, Russians, and
Prussians followed the example set them by their sovereigns, and lived together in the most
intimate brotherhood.

