Here is a sad case of a young fellow I know. He had an ambition to shine, but he wasn't willing
to do the tedious grinding and polishing so vitally necessary to shining. He had a chance at
college, but he also wanted to be a social lion, all too soon. He could not afford it in the
first place; he couldn't spare the time from his studies, in the next place; but he spent his
dad's money anyhow and he let his classes go bang. He did the social stunt--on credit. Result:
he got E's and F's on his grades and he was shipped. The faculty regards that kind of a student
as demoralizing to the morale of a first-class institution. In fact he could not be called
a student; he was an "inmate," and it is hard to make an alumni out of inmates.

This young fellow landed back home for the summer, "out of luck," in debt, and a cruel disappointment
to his doting parents. He had done the social stunt, but he picked the fruit before it was
ripe, and now it's hurting him inside.

He flew his kite in the rain!

He decided he would make good by being a civil engineer. He wanted to be a civil engineer right
away, but when he started in he found that the first stages of civil engineering consisted
in carrying a chain and a rod up and down hill in the heat and taking orders from a smart chap
who looked through a telescope and made notes, so within a few days he quit; he wasn't willing
to pay the price. He thought he would play the violin, but he wasn't willing to spend hours
practising the scales and simple fingering, so he laid aside the violin. He wanted to play
Schubert's Serenade right off, but on learning the cost, he contented himself with whistling it.

Fellows, he is of the sort that make up the great throng of fourth-raters in the world to-day,
drifting here and there; or settling down with a family on his hands and a little two-by-four
job to eke out a bare living. And you fellows may as well face this fact: you've got to stint,
if you're going to pull off a stunt. No stint, no stunt. Stinting is only another name for
work and patience and economy combined, and it brings its inevitable fruit--Success!

     Read Acts 16:6-15.

L

THE BEDOUIN SLAVE

Say, fellows, I heard a story from the banks of the Nile which stirred my blood. It may be
only a legend, but it contains a big thought, and I want you to have it. All day upon the hot
sands the battle had raged, and as the sun was setting a Bedouin chief fell, mortally wounded.
Quickly his watchful body-servant eased his master's dying form from the back of the Arabian
steed and dragged him out of the thick fighting to a protected spot where he might say his
last word and die in comparative quiet. The chieftain's words were few but significant. He
simply said to his man: "Go and tell Allah that I come." The loyal slave knew what it meant:
only his spirit could carry a message like that, and the clay house it occupied must be destroyed
before the spirit would depart.

Possibly he hesitated as his hand grasped the hilt of his dagger, for life was sweet even to
a slave; back home was a slave-maid in the house of his master, and she had been promised as
his bride upon return from this campaign in the valley of the Nile. Many a daydream of the
future had served to shorten the tedious marches over the hot sands as he rode beside his master.
Long after the camp was asleep the slave gazed at the star which seemed to guard her whose
life and future were bound up in his own. But only a moment he paused; one more look at his
chief, whose fast ebbing blood stained the sand upon which he lay--this chief who was not only
his master by right of actual ownership, but one who had been always his benefactor and friend--one
searching look into the eyes whose merest glance he had learned to interpret for a last sign
of recognition; then with a firm, unfaltering hand he drew his blade and thrust it deep into
his own heart, that his spirit might be free to fly "to Allah," with the announcement of his
master's coming.

Now, fellows, there is something fine about that, even if it be only a romance. Loyalty that
rises to the height of complete self-forgetfulness challenges the best that is in us. But,
after all, the picture falls to pieces because it is built upon a false faith and a suicide.
I am glad that you and I can to-day, in real life, take part in something finer--something
requiring just as superb loyalty, and for a Cause that is really worth the best that is in us.

Jesus Christ is the Chief of all chieftains. His last words upon earth were, "Go ye--tell them."
They were not the words of a dying chief, but of one gloriously alive and triumphant over death,
the last and greatest enemy of all; not the command of one powerless in the presence of his
foes, but one who could say, "All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth;" not a master
who must send his obedient slave on a fearful and futile mission alone, but one who girds his
courier with the assurance, "And lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world."

Saul caught a great vision of service when Jesus spoke to him in the way. Prostrate upon the
ground in the blinding light, Saul did not say, "Lord, let me die!" He said, "Lord, what wilt
thou have me to live and do?" You and I may say just as big and fine a thing as that to our
Lord to-day. Jesus' command to Saul was in substance, "Go ye--tell them." It is the same to
you and me.

Will it cost you anything to obey? Yes, it will cost you your life. But not in the hopeless
way the Arab's slave gave his. Your hand is on the hilt of the dagger, but Jesus is not requiring
a man so much to die for Him these days; He is calling for living couriers, those who will
give their lives in life for Him. So you plunge the dagger deep into--not your heart, but your
false pride--that thing which keeps you back from "announcing" your Master's Name. You plunge
it deep into that thing in your life plan which would interfere with a real program of witnessing
for Jesus. With God's help you stab that habit of thought or act which stifles your impulse
to do His will and embarrasses you in trying to serve Him. It is what Paul meant when he said
to the Galatians, "And they that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with the passions and
lusts."

Fellows, every one of us can be a herald of our Master's coming to the souls about us who have
not realized His near approach. No matter what our "business" or "profession," if it be a fair
and honest one we can make it a help to our witnessing. There is no proper relationship in
life which may not afford the opportunity to tell about Jesus Christ and His deathless love.

Saul became a messenger of Christ for his whole time. Comparatively few are called of God into
the ministry; but every boy should seriously face the question, under God's guidance, whether
or not he be one of those few. Take a pencil and draw a vertical line on a sheet of paper.
On one side the line put down the reasons why you should go into the ministry; on the other
side, the reasons why you should not. Be honest with yourself and with God. Weigh each reason,
for or against, upon your knees. Ask God to give you a clear vision of the course He wants
you to take. With all the earnestness of your soul, ask Him, "Lord, what wilt thou have me
to do?" Be still and listen. And then, fellows, you will hear that unmistakable but "still
small voice," and He will send you forth surefooted in a path plainly marked.

Oh, fellows, it is great to have clear running orders, with such a Message and such a Master!
Don't miss it.

     Read Matthew 28:16-20.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

CHURCH AND SUNDAY SCHOOL WORK

WILLIAM ALLEN HARPER President Elon College, North Carolina

