But the Gaul was not fleeing, for after a while he stopped, and standing in one place began
to turn with barely a slight movement, so as to have his enemy always in front, in his form
and monstrously large head there was now something terrible. The spectators understood perfectly
that that heavy body encased in bronze was preparing for a sudden throw to decide the battle.
The retiarius meanwhile sprang up to him, then sprang away, making with his three-toothed fork
motions so quick that the eye hardly followed them. The sound of the teeth on the shield was
heard repeatedly; but the Gaul did not quiver, giving proof by this of his gigantic strength.
All his attention seemed fixed, not on the trident, but the net which was circling above his
head, like a bird of ill omen. The spectators held the breath in their breasts, and followed
the masterly play of the gladiators. The Gaul waited, chose the moment, and rushed at last
on his enemy; the latter with equal quickness shot past under his sword, straightened himself
with raised arm, and threw the net.

The Gaul, turning where he stood, caught it on his shield; then both sprang apart. In the amphitheatre
shouts of "Macte!" thundered; in the lower rows they began to make new bets. Cæsar himself,
who at first had been talking with Rubria, and so far had not paid much attention to the spectacle,
turned his head toward the arena.

They began to struggle again, so regularly and with such precision in their movements, that
sometimes it seemed that with them it was not a question of life or death, but of exhibiting
skill. The Gaul escaping twice more from the net, pushed toward the edge of the arena; those
who held bets against him, not wishing the champion to rest, began to cry, "Bear on!" The Gaul
obeyed, and attacked. The arm of the retiarius was covered on a sudden with blood, and his
net dropped. The Gaul summoned his strength, and sprang forward to give the final blow. That
instant Calendio, who feigned inability to wield the net, sprang aside, escaped the thrust,
ran the trident between the knees of his opponent, and brought him to the earth.

The Gaul tried to rise, but in a twinkle he was covered by the fatal meshes, in which he was
entangled more and more by every movement of his feet and hands. Meanwhile stabs of the trident
fixed him time after time to the earth. He made one more effort, rested on his arm, and tried
to rise; in vain! He raised to his head his falling hand which could hold the sword no longer,
and fell on his back. Calendio pressed his neck to the ground with the trident, and, resting
both hands on the handle of it, turned toward Cæsar's box.

The whole Circus was trembling from plaudits and the roar of people. For those who had bet
on Calendio he was at that moment greater than Cæsar; but for this very reason animosity against
the Gaul vanished from their hearts. At the cost of his blood he had filled their purses. The
voices of the audience were divided. On the upper seats half the signs were for death, and
half for mercy; but the retiarius looked only at the box of Cæsar and the vestals, waiting
for what they would decide.

To the misfortune of the fallen gladiator, Nero did not like him, for at the last games before
the fire he had bet against the Gaul, and had lost considerable sums to Licinus; hence he thrust
his hand out of the podium, and turned his thumb toward the earth.

The vestals supported the sign at once. Calendio knelt on the breast of the Gaul, drew a short
knife from his belt, pushed apart the armor around the neck of his opponent, and drove the
three-edged blade into his throat to the handle.

"Peractum est!" sounded voices in the amphitheatre.

The Gaul quivered a time, like a stabbed bullock, dug the sand with his heels, stretched, and
was motionless.

Mercury had no need to try with heated iron if he were living yet. He was hidden away quickly,
and other pairs appeared. After them came a battle of whole detachments. The audience took
part in it with soul, heart, and eyes. They howled, roared, whistled, applauded, laughed, urged
on the combatants, grew wild. The gladiators on the arena, divided into two legions, fought
with the rage of wild beasts; breast struck breast, bodies were intertwined in a death grapple,
strong limbs cracked in their joints, swords were buried in breasts and in stomachs, pale lips
threw blood on to the sand. Toward the end such terrible fear seized some novices that, tearing
themselves from the turmoil, they fled; but the scourgers drove them back again quickly to
the battle with lashes tipped with lead. On the sand great dark spots were formed; more and
more naked and armed bodies lay stretched like grain sheaves. The living fought on the corpses;
they struck against armor and shields, cut their feet against broken weapons, and fell. The
audience lost self-command from delight; and intoxicated with death breathed it, sated their
eyes with the sight of it, and drew into their lungs the exhalations of it with ecstasy.

The conquered lay dead, almost every man. Barely a few wounded knelt in the middle of the arena,
and trembling stretched their hands to the audience with a prayer for mercy. To the victors
were given rewards,--crowns, olive wreaths. And a moment of rest came, which, at command of
the all-powerful Cæsar, was turned into a feast. Perfumes were burned in vases. Sprinklers
scattered saffron and violet rain on the people. Cooling drinks were served, roasted meats,
sweet cakes, wine, olives, and fruits. The people devoured, talked, and shouted in honor of
Cæsar, to incline him to greater bounteousness. When hunger and thirst had been satisfied,
hundreds of slaves bore around baskets full of gifts, from which boys, dressed as Cupids, took
various objects and threw them with both hands among the seats. When lottery tickets were distributed,
a battle began. People crowded, threw, trampled one another; cried for rescue, sprang over
rows of seats, stifled one another in the terrible crush, since whoever got a lucky number
might win possibly a house with a garden, a slave, a splendid dress, or a wild beast which
he could sell to the amphitheatre afterward. For this reason there were such disorders that
frequently the pretorians had to interfere; and after every distribution they carried out people
with broken arms or legs, and some were even trampled to death in the throng.

But the more wealthy took no part in the fight for tesseræ. The Augustians amused themselves
now with the spectacle of Chilo, and with making sport of his vain efforts to show that he
could look at fighting and blood-spilling as well as any man. But in vain did the unfortunate
Greek wrinkle his brow, gnaw his lips, and squeeze his fists till the nails entered his palms.
His Greek nature and his personal cowardice were unable to endure such sights. His face grew
pale, his forehead was dotted with drops of sweat, his lips were blue, his eyes turned in,
his teeth began to chatter, and a trembling seized his body. At the end of the battle he recovered
somewhat; but when they attacked him with tongues, sudden anger seized him, and he defended
himself desperately.

"Ha, Greek! the sight of torn skin on a man is beyond thy strength!" said Vatinius, taking
him by the beard.

Chilo bared his last two yellow teeth at him and answered,--

"My father was not a cobbler, so I cannot mend it."

"Macte! habet (Good! he has caught it!)" called a number of voices; but others jeered on.

"He is not to blame that instead of a heart he has a piece of cheese in his breast," said Senecio.

"Thou art not to blame that instead of a head thou hast a bladder," retorted Chilo.

"Maybe thou wilt become a gladiator! thou wouldst look well with a net on the arena."

"If I should catch thee in it, I should catch a stinking hoopoe."

"And how will it be with the Christians?" asked Festus, from Liguria. "Wouldst thou not like
to be a dog and bite them?"

"I should not like to be thy brother."

"Thou Mæotian copper-nose!"

"Thou Ligurian mule!"

"Thy skin is itching, evidently, but I don't advise thee to ask me to scratch it."

"Scratch thyself. If thou scratch thy own pimple, thou wilt destroy what is best in thee."

And in this manner they attacked him. He defended himself venomously, amid universal laughter.
Cæsar, clapping his hands, repeated, "Macte!" and urged them on. After a while Petronius approached,
and, touching the Greek's shoulder with his carved ivory cane, said coldly,--

"This is well, philosopher; but in one thing thou hast blundered: the gods created thee a pickpocket,
and thou hast become a demon. That is why thou canst not endure."

The old man looked at him with his red eyes, but this time somehow he did not find a ready
insult. He was silent for a moment; then answered, as if with a certain effort,--

"I shall endure."

Meanwhile the trumpets announced the end of the interval. People began to leave the passages
where they had assembled to straighten their legs and converse. A general movement set in with
the usual dispute about seats occupied previously. Senators and patricians hastened to their
places. The uproar ceased after a time, and the amphitheatre returned to order. On the arena
a crowd of people appeared whose work was to dig out here and there lumps of sand formed with
stiffened blood.

The turn of the Christians was at hand. But since that was a new spectacle for people, and
no one knew how the Christians would bear themselves, all waited with a certain curiosity.
The disposition of the audience was attentive but unfriendly; they were waiting for uncommon
scenes. Those people who were to appear had burned Rome and its ancient treasures. They had
drunk the blood of infants, and poisoned water; they had cursed the whole human race, and committed
the vilest crimes. The harshest punishment did not suffice the roused hatred; and if any fear
possessed people's hearts, it was this: that the torture of the Christians would not equal
the guilt of those ominous criminals.

Meanwhile the sun had risen high; its rays, passing through the purple velarium, had filled
the amphitheatre with blood-colored light. The sand assumed a fiery hue, and in those gleams,
in the faces of people, as well as in the empty arena, which after a time was to be filled
with the torture of people and the rage of savage beasts, there was something terrible. Death
and terror seemed hovering in the air. The throng, usually gladsome, became moody under the
influence of hate and silence. Faces had a sullen expression.

Now the prefect gave a sign. The same old man appeared, dressed as Charon, who had called the
gladiators to death, and, passing with slow step across the arena amid silence, he struck three
times again on the door.

Throughout the amphitheatre was heard the deep murmur,--

"The Christians! the Christians!"

The iron gratings creaked; through the dark openings were heard the usual cries of the scourgers,
"To the sand!" and in one moment the arena was peopled with crowds as it were of satyrs covered
with skins. All ran quickly, somewhat feverishly, and, reaching the middle of the circle, they
knelt one by another with raised heads. The spectators, judging this to be a prayer for pity,
and enraged by such cowardice, began to stamp, whistle, throw empty wine-vessels, bones from
which the flesh had been eaten, and shout, "The beasts! the beasts!" But all at once something
unexpected took place. From out the shaggy assembly singing voices were raised, and then sounded
that hymn heard for the first time in a Roman amphitheatre, "Christus regnat!" ["Christ reigns!"]

Astonishment seized the spectators. The condemned sang with eyes raised to the velarium. The
audience saw faces pale, but as it were inspired. All understood that those people were not
asking for mercy, and that they seemed not to see the Circus, the audience, the Senate, or
Cæsar. "Christus regnat!" rose ever louder, and in the seats, far up to the highest, among
the rows of spectators, more than one asked himself the question, "What is happening, and who
is that Christus who reigns in the mouths of those people who are about to die?" But meanwhile
a new grating was opened, and into the arena rushed, with mad speed and barking, whole packs
of dogs,--gigantic, yellow Molossians from the Peloponnesus, pied dogs from the Pyrenees, and
wolf-like hounds from Hibernia, purposely famished; their sides lank, and their eyes bloodshot.
Their howls and whines filled the amphitheatre. When the Christians had finished their hymn,
they remained kneeling, motionless, as if petrified, merely repeating in one groaning chorus,
"Pro Christo! Pro Christo!" The dogs, catching the odor of people under the skins of beasts,
and surprised by their silence, did not rush on them at once. Some stood against the walls
of the boxes, as if wishing to go among the spectators; others ran around barking furiously,
as though chasing some unseen beast. The people were angry. A thousand voices began to call;
some howled like wild beasts; some barked like dogs; others urged them on in every language.
The amphitheatre was trembling from uproar. The excited dogs began to run to the kneeling people,
then to draw back, snapping their teeth, till at last one of the Molossians drove his teeth
into the shoulder of a woman kneeling in front, and dragged her under him.

Tens of dogs rushed into the crowd now, as if to break through it. The audience ceased to howl,
so as to look with greater attention. Amidst the howling and whining were heard yet plaintive
voices of men and women: "Pro Christo! Pro Christo!" but on the arena were formed quivering
masses of the bodies of dogs and people. Blood flowed in streams from the torn bodies. Dogs
dragged from each other the bloody limbs of people. The odor of blood and torn entrails was
stronger than Arabian perfumes, and filled the whole Circus.

At last only here and there were visible single kneeling forms, which were soon covered by
moving squirming masses.

Vinicius, who at the moment when the Christians ran in, stood up and turned so as to indicate
to the quarryman, as he had promised, the direction in which the Apostle was hidden among the
people of Petronius, sat down again, and with the face of a dead man continued to look with
glassy eyes on the ghastly spectacle. At first fear that the quarryman might have been mistaken,
and that perchance Lygia was among the victims, benumbed him completely; but when he heard
the voices, "Pro Christo!" when he saw the torture of so many victims who, in dying, confessed
their faith and their God, another feeling possessed him, piercing him like the most dreadful
pain, but irresistible. That feeling was this,--if Christ Himself died in torment, if thousands
are perishing for Him now, if a sea of blood is poured forth, one drop more signifies nothing,
and it is a sin even to ask for mercy. That thought came to him from the arena, penetrated
him with the groans of the dying, with the odor of their blood. But still he prayed and repeated
with parched lips, "O Christ! O Christ! and Thy Apostle prayed for her!" Then he forgot himself,
lost consciousness of where he was. It seemed to him that blood on the arena was rising and
rising, that it was coming up and flowing out of the Circus over all Rome. For the rest he
heard nothing, neither the howling of dogs nor the uproar of the people nor the voices of the
Augustians, who began all at once to cry,--

"Chilo has fainted!"

"Chilo has fainted!" said Petronius, turning toward the Greek.

And he had fainted really; he sat there white as linen, his head fallen back, his mouth wide
open, like that of a corpse.

At that same moment they were urging into the arena new victims, sewed up in skins.

These knelt immediately, like those who had gone before; but the weary dogs would not rend
them. Barely a few threw themselves on to those kneeling nearest; but others lay down, and,
raising their bloody jaws, began to scratch their sides and yawn heavily.

Then the audience, disturbed in spirit, but drunk with blood and wild, began to cry with hoarse
voices,--

"The lions! the lions! Let out the lions!"

The lions were to be kept for the next day; but in the amphitheatres the people imposed their
will on every one, even on Cæsar. Caligula alone, insolent and changeable in his wishes, dared
to oppose them, and there were cases when he gave command to beat the people with clubs; but
even he yielded most frequently. Nero, to whom plaudits were dearer than all else in the world,
never resisted. All the more did he not resist now, when it was a question of mollifying the
populace, excited after the conflagration, and a question of the Christians, on whom he wished
to cast the blame of the catastrophe.

He gave the sign therefore to open the cuniculum, seeing which, the people were calmed in a
moment. They heard the creaking of the doors behind which were the lions. At sight of the lions
the dogs gathered with low whines, on the opposite side of the arena. The lions walked into
the arena one after another, immense, tawny, with great shaggy heads. Cæsar himself turned
his wearied face toward them, and placed the emerald to his eye to see better. The Augustians
greeted them with applause; the crowd counted them on their fingers, and followed eagerly the
impression which the sight of them would make on the Christians kneeling in the centre, who
again had begun to repeat the words, without meaning for many, though annoying to all, "Pro
Christo! Pro Christo!"

But the lions, though hungry, did not hasten to their victims. The ruddy light in the arena
dazzled them and they half closed their eyes as if dazed. Some stretched their yellowish bodies
lazily; some, opening their jaws, yawned,--one might have said that they wanted to show their
terrible teeth to the audience. But later the odor of blood and torn bodies, many of which
were lying on the sand, began to act on them. Soon their movements became restless, their manes
rose, their nostrils drew in the air with hoarse sound. One fell suddenly on the body of a
woman with a torn face, and, lying with his fore paws on the body, licked with a rough tongue
the stiffened blood: another approached a man who was holding in his arms a child sewed up
in a fawn's skin.

The child, trembling from crying, and weeping, clung convulsively to the neck of its father;
he, to prolong its life even for a moment, tried to pull it from his neck, so as to hand it
to those kneeling farther on. But the cry and the movement irritated the lion. All at once
he gave out a short, broken roar, killed the child with one blow of his paw, and seizing the
head of the father in his jaws, crushed it in a twinkle.

At sight of this all the other lions fell upon the crowd of Christians. Some women could not
restrain cries of terror; but the audience drowned these with plaudits, which soon ceased,
however, for the wish to see gained the mastery. They beheld terrible things then: heads disappearing
entirely in open jaws, breasts torn apart with one blow, hearts and lungs swept away; the crushing
of bones under the teeth of lions. Some lions, seizing victims by the ribs or loins, ran with
mad springs through the arena, as if seeking hidden places in which to devour them; others
fought, rose on their hind legs, grappled one another like wrestlers, and filled the amphitheatre
with thunder. People rose from their places. Some left their seats, went down lower through
the passages to see better, and crowded one another mortally. It seemed that the excited multitude
would throw itself at last into the arena, and rend the Christians in company with the lions.
At moments an unearthly noise was heard; at moments applause; at moments roaring, rumbling,
the clashing of teeth, the howling of Molossian dogs; at times only groans.

Cæsar, holding the emerald to his eye, looked now with attention. The face of Petronius assumed
an expression of contempt and disgust. Chilo had been borne out of the Circus.

But from the cuniculum new victims were driven forth continually.

From the highest row in the amphitheatre the Apostle Peter looked at them. No one saw him,
for all heads were turned to the arena; so he rose and as formerly in the vineyard of Cornelius
he had blessed for death and eternity those who were intended for imprisonment, so now he blessed
with the cross those who were perishing under the teeth of wild beasts. He blessed their blood,
their torture, their dead bodies turned into shapeless masses, and their souls flying away
from the bloody sand. Some raised their eyes to him, and their faces grew radiant; they smiled
when they saw high above them the sign of the cross. But his heart was rent, and he said, "O
Lord! let Thy will be done. These my sheep perish to Thy glory in testimony of the truth. Thou
didst command me to feed them; hence I give them to Thee, and do Thou count them, Lord, take
them, heal their wounds, soften their pain, give them happiness greater than the torments which
they suffered here."

And he blessed them one after another, crowd after crowd, with as much love as if they had
been his children whom he was giving directly into the hands of Christ. Then Cæsar, whether
from madness, or the wish that the exhibition should surpass everything seen in Rome so far,
whispered a few words to the prefect of the city. He left the podium and went at once to the
cuniculum. Even the populace were astonished when, after a while, they saw the gratings open
again. Beasts of all kinds were let out this time,--tigers from the Euphrates, Numidian panthers,
bears, wolves, hyenas, and jackals. The whole arena was covered as with a moving sea of striped,
yellow, flax-colored, dark-brown, and spotted skins. There rose a chaos in which the eye could
distinguish nothing save a terrible turning and twisting of the backs of wild beasts. The spectacle
lost the appearance of reality, and became as it were an orgy of blood, a dreadful dream, a
gigantic kaleidoscope of mad fancy. The measure was surpassed. Amidst roars, howls, whines,
here and there on the seats of the spectators were heard the terrified and spasmodic laughter
of women, whose strength had given way at last. The people were terrified. Faces grew dark.
Various voices began to cry, "Enough! enough!"

But it was easier to let the beasts in than drive them back again. Cæsar, however, found a
means of clearing the arena, and a new amusement for the people. In all the passages between
the seats appeared detachments of Numidians, black and stately, in feathers and earrings, with
bows in their hands. The people divined what was coming, and greeted the archers with a shout
of delight. The Numidians approached the railing, and, putting their arrows to the strings,
began to shoot from their bows into the crowd of beasts. That was a new spectacle truly. Their
bodies, shapely as if cut from dark marble, bent backward, stretched the flexible bows, and
sent bolt after bolt. The whizzing of the strings and the whistling of the feathered missiles
were mingled with the howling of beasts and cries of wonder from the audience. Wolves, bears,
panthers, and people yet alive fell side by side. Here and there a lion, feeling a shaft in
his ribs, turned with sudden movement, his jaws wrinkled from rage, to seize and break the
arrow. Others groaned from pain. The small beasts, falling into a panic, ran around the arena
at random, or thrust their heads into the grating; meanwhile the arrows whizzed and whizzed
on, till all that was living had lain down in the final quiver of death.

Hundreds of slaves rushed into the arena armed with spades, shovels, brooms, wheelbarrows,
baskets for carrying out entrails, and bags of sand. They came, crowd after crowd, and over
the whole circle there seethed up a feverish activity. The space was soon cleared of bodies,
blood, and mire, dug over, made smooth, and sprinkled with a thick layer of fresh sand. That
done, Cupids ran in, scattering leaves of roses, lilies, and the greatest variety of flowers.
The censers were ignited again, and the velarium was removed, for the sun had sunk now considerably.
But people looked at one another with amazement, and inquired what kind of new spectacle was
waiting for them on that day.

Indeed, such a spectacle was waiting as no one had looked for. Cæsar, who had left the podium
some time before, appeared all at once on the flowery arena, wearing a purple mantle, and a
crown of gold. Twelve choristers holding citharæ followed him. He had a silver lute, and advanced
with solemn tread to the middle, bowed a number of times to the spectators, raised his eyes,
and stood as if waiting for inspiration.

Then he struck the strings and began to sing,--

"O radiant son of Leto, Ruler of Tenedos, Chilos, Chrysos, Art thou he who, having in his care
The sacred city of Ilion, Could yield it to Argive anger, And suffer sacred altars, Which blazed
unceasingly to his honor, To be stained with Trojan blood? Aged men raised trembling hands
to thee, O thou of the far-shooting silver bow, Mothers from the depth of their breasts Raised
tearful cries to thee, Imploring pity on their offspring. Those complaints might have moved
a stone, But to the suffering of people Thou, O Smintheus, wert less feeling than a stone!"

The song passed gradually into an elegy, plaintive and full of pain. In the Circus there was
silence. After a while Cæsar, himself affected, sang on,--

"With the sound of thy heavenly lyre Thou couldst drown the wailing, The lament of hearts.
At the sad sound of this song The eye to-day is filled with tears, As a flower is filled with
dew, But who can raise from dust and ashes That day of fire, disaster, ruin? O Smintheus, where
wert thou then?"

Here his voice quivered and his eyes grew moist. Tears appeared on the lids of the vestals;
the people listened in silence before they burst into a long unbroken storm of applause.

Meanwhile from outside through the vomitoria came the sound of creaking vehicles on which were
placed the bloody remnants of Christians, men, women, and children, to be taken to the pits
called "puticuli."

But the Apostle Peter seized his trembling white head with his hands, and cried in spirit,--

"O Lord, O Lord! to whom hast Thou given rule over the earth, and why wilt Thou found in this
place Thy capital?"

Chapter LVI

THE sun had lowered toward its setting, and seemed to dissolve in the red of the evening. The
spectacle was finished. Crowds were leaving the amphitheatre and pouring out to the city through
the passages called vomitoria. Only Augustians delayed; they were waiting for the stream of
people to pass. They had all left their seats and assembled at the podium, in which Cæsar appeared
again to hear praises. Though the spectators had not spared plaudits at the end of the song,
Nero was not satisfied; he had looked for enthusiasm touching on frenzy. In vain did hymns
of praise sound in his ears; in vain did vestals kiss his "divine" hand, and while doing so
Rubria bent till her reddish hair touched his breast. Nero was not satisfied, and could not
hide the fact. He was astonished and also disturbed because Petronius was silent. Some flattering
and pointed word from his mouth would have been a great consolation at that moment. Unable
at last to restrain himself, Cæsar beckoned to the arbiter.

"Speak," said he, when Petronius entered the podium.

"I am silent," answered Petronius, coldly, "for I cannot find words. Thou hast surpassed thyself."

"So it seemed to me too; but still this people--"

"Canst thou expect mongrels to appreciate poetry?"

"But thou too hast noticed that they have not thanked me as I deserve."

"Because thou hast chosen a bad moment."

"How?"

"When men's brains are filled with the odor of blood, they cannot listen attentively."

"Ah, those Christians!" replied Nero, clenching his fists. "They burned Rome, and injure me
now in addition. What new punishment shall I invent for them?"

Petronius saw that he had taken the wrong road, that his words had produced an effect the very
opposite of what he intended; so, to turn Cæsar's mind in another direction, he bent toward
him and whispered,--

"Thy song is marvellous, but I will make one remark: in the fourth line of the third strophe
the metre leaves something to be desired."

Nero, blushing with shame, as if caught in a disgraceful deed, had fear in his look, and answered
in a whisper also,--

"Thou seest everything. I know. I will re-write that. But no one else noticed it, I think.
And do thou, for the love of the gods, mention it to no one,--if life is dear to thee."

To this Petronius answered, as if in an outburst of vexation and anger,

"Condemn me to death, O divinity, if I deceive thee; but thou wilt not terrify me, for the
gods know best of all if I fear death."

And while speaking he looked straight into Cæsar's eyes, who answered after a while,--

"Be not angry; thou knowest that I love thee."

"A bad sign!" thought Petronius.

"I wanted to invite thee to-day to a feast," continued Nero, "but I prefer to shut myself in
and polish that cursed line in the third strophe. Besides thee Seneca may have noticed it,
and perhaps Secundus Carinas did; but I will rid myself of them quickly."

Then he summoned Seneca, and declared that with Acratus and Secundus Carinas, he sent him to
the Italian and all other provinces for money, which he commanded him to obtain from cities,
villages, famous temples,--in a word, from every place where it was possible to find money,
or from which they could force it. But Seneca, who saw that Cæsar was confiding to him a work
of plunder, sacrilege, and robbery, refused straightway.

"I must go to the country, lord," said he, "and await death, for I am old and my nerves are sick."

Seneca's Iberian nerves were stronger than Chilos; they were not sick, perhaps, but in general
his health was bad, for he seemed like a shadow, and recently his hair had grown white altogether.

Nero, too, when he looked at him, thought that he would not have to wait long for the man's
death, and answered,--

"I will not expose thee to a journey if thou art ill, but through affection I wish to keep
thee near me. Instead of going to the country, then, thou wilt stay in thy own house, and not
leave it."

Then he laughed, and said, "If I send Acratus and Carinas by themselves, it will be like sending
wolves for sheep. Whom shall I set above them?"

"Me, lord," said Domitius Afer.

"No! I have no wish to draw on Rome the wrath of Mercury, whom ye would put to shame with your
villainy. I need some stoic like Seneca, or like my new friend, the philosopher Chilo."

Then he looked around, and asked,--

"But what has happened to Chilo?"

Chilo, who had recovered in the open air and returned to the amphitheatre for Cæsar's song,
pushed up, and said,--

"I am here, O Radiant Offspring of the sun and moon. I was ill, but thy song has restored me."

"I will send thee to Achæa," said Nero. "Thou must know to a copper how much there is in each
temple there."

"Do so, O Zeus, and the gods will give thee such tribute as they have never given any one."

"I would, but I do not like to prevent thee from seeing the games."

"Baal!" said Chilo.

The Augustians, delighted that Cæsar had regained humor, fell to laughing, and exclaimed,--

"No, lord, deprive not this valiant Greek of a sight of the games."

"But preserve me, O lord, from the sight of these noisy geese of the Capitol, whose brains
put together would not fill a nutshell," retorted Chilo. "O first-born of Apollo, I am writing
a Greek hymn in thy honor, and I wish to spend a few days in the temple of the Muses to implore
inspiration."

"Oh, no!" exclaimed Nero. "It is thy wish to escape future games. Nothing will come of that!"

"I swear to thee, lord, that I am writing a hymn."

"Then thou wilt write it at night. Beg inspiration of Diana, who, by the way, is a sister of
Apollo."

Chilo dropped his head and looked with malice on those present, who began to laugh again. Cæsar,
turning to Senecio and Suilius Nerulinus, said,--

"Imagine, of the Christians appointed for to-day we have been able to finish hardly half!"

At this old Aquilus Regulus, who had great knowledge of everything touching the amphitheatre,
thought a while, and said,--

"Spectacles in which people appear sine armis et sine arte last almost as long and are less
entertaining."

"I will command to give them weapons," answered Nero.

But the superstitious Vestinius was roused from meditation at once, and asked in a mysterious
voice,--

"Have ye noticed that when dying they see something? They look up, and die as it were without
pain. I am sure that they see something."

He raised his eyes then to the opening of the amphitheatre, over which night had begun to extend
its velarium dotted with stars. But others answered with laughter and jesting suppositions
as to what the Christians could see at the moment of death. Meanwhile Cæsar gave a signal to
the slave torch-bearers, and left the Circus; after him followed vestals, senators, dignitaries,
and Augustians.

The night was clear and warm. Before the Circus were moving throngs of people, curious to witness
the departure of Cæsar; but in some way they were gloomy and silent. Here and there applause
was heard, but it ceased quickly. From the spoliarium creaking carts bore away the bloody remnants
of Christians.

Petronius and Vinicius passed over their road in silence. Only when near his villa did Petronius
inquire,--

"Hast thou thought of what I told thee?" "I have," answered Vinicius.

"Dost believe that for me too this is a question of the highest importance? I must liberate
her in spite of Cæsar and Tigellinus. This is a kind of battle in which I have undertaken to
conquer, a kind of play in which I wish to win, even at the cost of my life. This day has confirmed
me still more in my plan."

"May Christ reward thee."

"Thou wilt see."

Thus conversing, they stopped at the door of the villa and descended from the litter. At that
moment a dark figure approached them, and asked,--

"Is the noble Vinicius here?"

"He is," answered the tribune. "What is thy wish?"

"I am Nazarius, the son of Miriam. I come from the prison, and bring tidings of Lygia."

Vinicius placed his hand on the young man's shoulder and looked into his eyes by the torchlight,
without power to speak a word, but Nazarius divined the question which was dying on his lips,
and replied,--

"She is living yet. Ursus sent me to say that she prays in her fever, and repeats thy name."

"Praise be to Christ, who has power to restore her to me," said Vinicius. He conducted Nazarius
to the library, and after a while Petronius came in to hear their conversation.

"Sickness saved her from shame, for executioners are timid," said the youth. "Ursus and Glaucus
the physician watch over her night and day."

"Are the guards the same?"

"They are, and she is in their chamber. All the prisoners in the lower dungeon died of fever,
or were stifled from foul air."

"Who art thou?" inquired Petronins.

"The noble Vinicius knows me. I am the son of that widow with whom Lygia lodged."

"And a Christian?"

The youth looked with inquiring glance at Vinicius, but, seeing him in prayer, he raised his
head, and answered,--

"I am."

"How canst thou enter the prison freely?"

"I hired myself to carry out corpses; I did so to assist my brethren and bring them news from
the city."

Petronius looked more attentively at the comely face of the youth, his blue eyes, and dark,
abundant hair.

"From what country art thou, youth?" asked he.

"I am a Galilean, lord."

"Wouldst thou like to see Lygia free?"

The youth raised his eyes. "Yes, even had I to die afterwards."

Then Vinicius ceased to pray, and said,--

"Tell the guards to place her in a coffin as if she were dead. Thou wilt find assistants to
bear her out in the night with thee. Near the 'Putrid Pits' will be people with a litter waiting
for you; to them ye will give the coffin. Promise the guards from me as much gold as each can
carry in his mantle."

While speaking, his face lost its usual torpor, and in him was roused the soldier to whom hope
had restored his former energy.

Nazarius was flushed with delight, and, raising his hands, he exclaimed,

"May Christ give her health, for she will be free."

"Dost thou think that the guards will consent?" inquired Petronius.

"They, lord? Yes, if they know that punishment and torture will not touch them."

"The guards would consent to her flight; all the more will they let us bear her out as a corpse,"
said Vinicius.

"There is a man, it is true," said Nazarius, "who burns with red-hot iron to see if the bodies
which we carry out are dead. But he will take even a few sestertia not to touch the face of
the dead with iron. For one aureus he will touch the coffin, not the body."

"Tell him that he will get a cap full of aurei," said Petronius. "But canst thou find reliable
assistants?"

"I can find men who would sell their own wives and children for money."

"Where wilt thou find them?"

"In the prison itself or in the city. Once the guards are paid, they will admit whomever I like."

"In that case take me as a hired servant," said Vinicius.

But Petronius opposed this most earnestly. "The pretorians might recognize thee even in disguise,
and all would be lost. Go neither to the prison nor the 'Putrid Pits.' All, including Cæsar
and Tigellinus, should be convinced that she died; otherwise they will order immediate pursuit.
We can lull suspicion only in this way: When she is taken to the Alban Hills or farther, to
Sicily, we shall be in Rome. A week or two later thou wilt fall ill, and summon Nero's physician;
he will tell thee to go to the mountains. Thou and she will meet, and afterward--"

Here he thought a while; then, waving his hand, he said,--

"Other times may come."

"May Christ have mercy on her," said Vinicius. "Thou art speaking of Sicily, while she is sick
and may die."

"Let us keep her nearer Rome at first. The air alone will restore her, if only we snatch her
from the dungeon. Hast thou no manager in the mountains whom thou canst trust?"

"I have," replied Vinicius, hurriedly. "Near Corioli is a reliable man who carried me in his
arms when I was a child, and who loves me yet."

"Write to him to come to-morrow," said Petronius, handing Vinicius tablets. "I will send a
courier at once."

He called the chief of the atrium then, and gave the needful orders. A few minutes later, a
mounted slave was coursing in the night toward Corioli.

"It would please me were Ursus to accompany her," said Vinicius. "I should be more at rest."

"Lord," said Nazarius, "that is a man of superhuman strength; he can break gratings and follow
her. There is one window above a steep, high rock where no guard is placed. I will take Ursus
a rope; the rest he will do himself."

"By Hercules!" said Petronius, "let him tear himself out as he pleases, but not at the same
time with her, and not two or three days later, for they would follow him and discover her
hiding-place. By Hercules! do ye wish to destroy yourselves and her? I forbid you to name Corioli
to him, or I wash my hands."

Both recognized the justice of these words, and were silent. Nazarius took leave, promising
to come the next morning at daybreak.

He hoped to finish that night with the guards, but wished first to run in to see his mother,
who in that uncertain and dreadful time had no rest for a moment thinking of her son. After
some thought he had determined not to seek an assistant in the city, but to find and bribe
one from among his fellow corpse-bearers. When going, he stopped, and, taking Vinicius aside,
whispered,--

"I will not mention our plan to any one, not even to my mother, but the Apostle Peter promised
to come from the amphitheatre to our house; I will tell him everything."

"Here thou canst speak openly," replied Vinicius. "The Apostle was in the amphitheatre with
the people of Petronius. But I will go with you myself."

He gave command to bring him a slave's mantle, and they passed out. Petronius sighed deeply.

"I wished her to die of that fever," thought he, "since that would have been less terrible
for Vinicius. But now I am ready to offer a golden tripod to Esculapius for her health. Ah!
Ahenobarbus, thou hast the wish to turn a lover's pain into a spectacle; thou, Augusta, wert
jealous of the maiden's beauty, and wouldst devour her alive because thy Rufius has perished.
Thou, Tigellinus, wouldst destroy her to spite me! We shall see. I tell you that your eyes
will not behold her on the arena, for she will either die her own death, or I shall wrest her
from you as from the jaws of dogs, and wrest her in such fashion that ye shall not know it;
and as often afterward as I look at you I shall think, These are the fools whom Caius Petronius
outwitted."

And, self-satisfied, he passed to the triclinium, where he sat down to supper with Eunice.
During the meal a lector read to them the Idyls of Theocritus. Out of doors the wind brought
clouds from the direction of Soracte, and a sudden storm broke the silence of the calm summer
night. From time to time thunder reverberated on the seven hills, while they, reclining near
each other at the table, listened to the bucolic poet, who in the singing Doric dialect celebrated
the loves of shepherds. Later on, with minds at rest, they prepared for sweet slumber.

But before this Vinicius returned. Petronius heard of his coming, and went to meet him.

"Well? Have ye fixed anything new?" inquired he. "Has Nazarius gone to the prison?"

"He has," answered the young man, arranging his hair, wet from the rain. "Nazarius went to
arrange with the guards, and I have seen Peter, who commanded me to pray and believe."

"That is well. If all goes favorably, we can bear her away to-morrow night."

"My manager must be here at daybreak with men."

"The road is a short one. Now go to rest."

But Vinicius knelt in his cubiculum and prayed.

At sunrise Niger, the manager, arrived from Corioli, bringing with him, at the order of Vinicius,
mules, a litter, and four trusty men selected among slaves from Britain, whom, to save appearances,
he had left at an inn in the Subura. Vinicius, who had watched all night, went to meet him.
Niger, moved at sight of his youthful master, kissed his hands and eyes, saying,--

"My dear, thou art ill, or else suffering has sucked the blood from thy face, for hardly did
I know thee at first."

