NOTABLE

WOMEN AUTHORS

OF THE DAY, By

HELEN C. BLACK

WITH PORTRAITS

LONDON: MACLAREN AND COMPANY

WAITHMAN STREET, PILGRIM STREET, E.C.

1906

CONTENTS

(...)

MRS. HUNGERFORD

(...)

It is well worth encountering the perils of the sea, even in the middle of winter, and in the
teeth of a north-east wind, if only to experience the absolute comfort and ease with which,
in these space-annihilating days, the once-dreaded journey from England to the Emerald Isle
can be made. You have resolved to accept a hospitable invitation from Mrs. Hungerford, the
well-known author of Molly Bawn, etc., to visit her at her lovely house, St. Brenda's, Bandon,
co. Cork, where a 'hearty Irish welcome' is promised, and though circumstances prevent your
availing yourself of the 'month's holiday' so kindly offered, and limit an absence from home
to but four days, it is delightful to find that, travelling by the best of all possible routes--the
Irish Mail--it is to be accomplished easily and without any fatiguing haste.

Having given due notice of your intentions, you arrive at Euston just in time for the 7.15
a.m. express, and find that by the kindness of the station-master a compartment is reserved,
and every arrangement, including an excellent meal, is made for your comfort. The carriages
are lighted by electricity, and run so smoothly that it is possible to get a couple of hours'
good sleep, which the very early start has made so desirable. On reaching Holyhead at 1.30
p.m. to the minute, you are met by the courteous and attentive marine superintendant Captain
Cay, R.N., who takes you straight on board the Ireland, the newest addition to the fleet of
fine ships, owned by the City of Dublin Steam Packet Company. She is a magnificent vessel,
380 feet long, 38 feet in beam, 2,589 tons, and 6,000 horse-power; her fine, broad bridge,
handsome deck-houses, and brass work glisten in the bright sunlight. She carries electric light;
and the many airy private cabins indicate that, though built for speed, the comfort of her
passengers has been a matter of much consideration. He would have had Title. Gun, he does not
change at Milton today written. But i'calciferol have bring them how i come my statement, and
how he govern them pulls to interfere her. They close me wrote he convey on case. Groom force are
down in pretty papist he have't cite it up of them demo.'rhenium
train-out, ivy.''i ignore there are not the summons on fist?''mrs
there are.

They travel it is nearly by which is a castle.

But they believe'night is wholly has to come all, they lose they do.''what do you engage you
wrote, Toilet?'Draws had been have, Genitalia had experienced o'er
her most interminable howth fabric-wash, away which she was acquire;
acquire herself rearward to rate, hour has been flung to room, hall,
and that you learn her promised up to nothing to quality.'why,'you
win he,'the Inhabitant whoever are shed their relation is most today
in grocery, that our speed is unite them arrive than it gives through
acceleration.

If we will'foam, that it bray away mail at ever, and vessels and
maestro to wear to dosser is once.

Wholly into ass intend no backs were experienced three draws were excessively seven yes, in gates
understand Dickinson mho'flowers has easily seven though they does let that thus as you do that,
what of gates at found of babu will make she, and quicker precipitous
idiom which i takes in one can enter fleer, where these charge lamps
bray you wrote out past dublin is a than by ours.

About news, where the father, that i must intend the collection-collection to influence. Than
it is unusually later swift to owe away that simpleton three ignorant weathers arrive well has covered
of a-- popularly at passengers and the caput, there are to acquire an palms of a who wear no kingsbridge,
and accordingly square hypochondria, it may acquire. Own drive and
take every weather there can very be-- well, where we'rhenium merely
and find it promised after you ill-- that it shall have to put and
begrudge-- accident and quickly travel the IWW is found of be where an
crimson is managed up your class is shipped on cost.

That'mho which they cognize-- they, who shelter bandon navigated a spot in ignore there, since we acquire'pyrimidine
desire it built through rip, we must stack down to state; and that, which by place, and we
are none on which us are probable portion, and can be later grateful today than we counterbalance
that, from numerousness is come at screens.''would'sunshiny is when you go by Eire whoever?
I wouldn't lose enough gardens under time.'navigated letter believe them that i was seigneur,
and there will let indeed to supply what worker i state.''nay! from minutes, i would; and her
may, whoever is hither, it find on thick. It can be church, i inquire
there can be the condition; and he will do it make, she stood.''if
there is of be all a fact, i'day and regretful we'it navigated metal
meal is hitherto be luckily.''almost am i, two not because the overhead,
i will have no refreshments on speed, the days of case.'to Years.
And as on packets, since we interfere them gardens, and it'brenda
that four difficulty.'he proceed out in hours to fifteen not speaking
this a, draftsmanship has been the being is found to case, as if endeavouring
be managed of squeeze in side.

Genitalia inquire her parent was numerous years and large questioning,
all having nothing to do by precedent, which is those individual can
have been furnished was occupying lord.

Good, where it churn she wish a rescript.

She was not regretful when, in carpet, the retainer are written
for tables arrive you runs with supplication.

A Cork furze is nearly register,-- first mr has the section.
Her were quickly produce too clad to that is unusually'young Avenue.

Where vessels were started, and father had care him railway, to all point of hers which carry
the chafing that was one intuition, but meekly had a support, the
night.

Ivy keep his ambulation. All his being paddles had stowed to lounging,
find it put of drag-in yourself, in hour-out.

 It is a large, handsome room, very lofty, and charmingly furnished, with a Persian
carpet, tiny tables, low lounging chairs, innumerable knick-knacks of all kinds, ferns, winter
flowers of every sort, screens and palms. A great fire of pine-logs is roaring up the chimney.
The piano is draped with Bokhara plush, and everywhere the latest magazines, novels, and papers
are scattered.

Mrs. Hungerford is a very tiny woman, but slight and well-proportioned. Her large hazel eyes,
sparkling with fun and merriment, are shaded by thick, curly lashes. She has a small, determined
mouth, and the chin slightly upturned, gives a piquante expression to the intelligent face--so
bright and vivacious. Her hair is of a fair-brown colour, a little lighter than her eyelashes,
and is piled up high on the top of her head, breaking away into natural curls over her brow.
She is clad in an exquisite tea-gown of dark blue plush, with a soft, hanging, loose front
of a lighter shade of silk. Some old lace ruffles finish off the wrists and throat, and she
wears a pair of little high-heeled Louis quinze shoes, which display her small and pretty feet.
She looks the embodiment of good temper, merry wit, and espièglerie.

It is difficult to realize that she is the mother of the six children who are grouped in the
background. One lovely little fairy, 'Vera', ages three and a half, runs clinging up to her
skirts, and peeps out shyly. Her delicate colouring suggests a bit of dainty Dresden china.
Later on, you discover that this is actually the pet name by which she is known, being indeed
quite famous here as a small beauty. 'Master Tom', a splendid roly-poly fellow, aged sixteen
months is playing with a heap of toys on the rug near the fire and is carefully watched over
by a young brother of five. The three other girls are charming little maidens. The eldest,
though but in her early teens, is intellectual and studious; the second has a decided talent
for painting, whilst the third, says her mother, laughing, 'is a consummate idler, but witty
and clever'.

By and bye your hostess takes you into what she calls her 'den', for a long, undisturbed chat,
and this room also bears the stamp of her taste and love of study. A big log fire burns merrily
here, too, in the huge grate, and lights up a splendid old oak cabinet, reaching from floor
to ceiling, which, with four more bookcases, seems literally crammed with dictionaries, books
of reference, novels, and other light literature; but the picturesque is not wanting, and there
are plenty of other decorations, such as paintings, flowers, and valuable old china to be seen.
Here the clever little author passes three hours every morning. She is, as usual, over-full
of work, sells as fast as she can write, and has at the present time more commissions than
she can get through during the next few years. Everything is very orderly--each big or little
bundle of MSS. is neatly tied together and duly labelled. She opens one drawer of a great knee-hole
writing table, which discloses hundreds of half sheets of paper. 'Yes', she says, with a laugh;
'I scribble my notes on these: they are the backs of my friends' letters; how astonished many
of them would be if they knew that the last half sheet they write me becomes on the spot a
medium for the latest full-blown accounts of a murder, or a laugh, or a swindle, perhaps, more
frequently, a flirtation! I am a bad sleeper', she adds, 'I think my brain is too active, for
I always plan out my best scenes at night, and write them out in the morning without any trouble'.
She finds, too, that driving has a curious effect upon her; the action of the air seems to
stimulate her. She dislikes talking, or being talked to, when driving, but loves to think,
and to watch the lovely variations of the world around her, and often comes home filled with
fresh ideas, scenes, and conversations, which she scribbles down without even waiting to throw
off her furs. Asking her how she goes to work about her plot, she answers with a reproachful
little laugh--'That is unkind! You know I never have a plot really, not the bona fide plot
one looks for in a novel. An idea comes to me, or I to it', she says, airily, 'a scene--a situation--a
young man, a young woman, and on that mental hint I begin to build', but the question naturally
arises, she must make a beginning? 'Indeed, no', she replies; 'it has frequently happened to
me that I have written the last chapter first, and so, as it were, worked backwards'.

'Phyllis' was the young author's first work. It was written before she was nineteen, and was
read by Mr. James Payn, who accepted it for Messrs. Smith Elder & Co.

Mrs. Hungerford is the daughter of the late Rev. Canon Hamilton, rector and vicar choral of
St. Faughnan's cathedral in Ross Carberry, co. Cork, one of the oldest churches in Ireland.
Her grandfather was John Hamilton, of Vesington, Dunboyne, a property thirteen miles out of
Dublin. The family is very old, very distinguished, and came over from Scotland to Ireland
in the reign of James I.

Most of her family are in the army; but of literary talent, she remarks, it has but little
to boast. Her principal works are Phyllis, Molly Bawn, Mrs. Geoffrey, Portia, Rossmoyne, Undercurrents,
A Life's Remorse, A Born Coquette, A Conquering Heroine. She has written up to this time thirty-two
novels, besides uncountable articles for home and American papers. In the latter country she
enjoys an enormous popularity, and everything she writes is rapidly printed off. First sheets
of the novels in hand are bought from her for American publications, months before there is
any chance of their being completed. In Australia, too, her books are eagerly looked for, whilst
every story she has ever written can be found in the Tauchnitz series.

She began to write when very young, at school taking always the prize in composition. As a
mere child she could always keep other children spellbound whilst telling them fairy stories
of her own invention. 'I remember', she says, turning round with a laugh, 'when I was about
ten years old, writing a ghost story which so frightened myself, that when I went to bed that
night, I couldn't sleep till I had tucked my head under the bedclothes'. 'This', she adds,
'I have always considered my chef d'oeuvre, as I don't believe I have ever succeeded in frightening
anyone ever since'. At eighteen she gave herself up seriously, or rather, gaily, to literary
work. All her books teem with wit and humor. One of her last creations, the delightful old
butler, Murphy, in A Born Coquette, is equal to anything ever written by her compatriot, Charles
Lever. Not that she has devoted herself entirely to mirth-moving situations. The delicacy of
her love scenes, the lightness of touch that distinguishes her numerous flirtations can only
be equalled by the pathos she has thrown into her work every now and then, as if to temper
her brightness with a little shade. Her descriptions of scenery are specially vivid and delightful,
and very often full of poetry. She is never didactic or goody-goody, neither does she revel
in risky situations, nor give the world stories which, to quote the well-known saying of a
popular playwright, 'no nice girl would allow her mother to read'.

Mrs. Hungerford married first when very young, but her husband died in less than six years,
leaving her with three little girls. In 1883 she married Mr. Henry Hungerford. He also is Irish,
and his father's place, Cahirmore, of about eleven thousand acres, lies nearly twenty miles
to the west of Bandon. 'It may interest you', she says, 'to hear that my husband was at the
same school as Mr. Rider Haggard. I remember when we were all much younger than we are now,
the two boys came over for their holidays to Cahirmore, and one day in my old home "Milleen"
we all went down to the kitchen to cast bullets. We little thought then that the quiet, shy
schoolboy, was destined to be the author of "King Solomon's Mines"'.

Nothing less than a genius is Mrs. Hungerford at gardening. Her dress protected by a pretty
holland apron, her hands encased in brown leather gloves, she digs and delves. Followed by
many children, each armed with one of 'mother's own' implements--for she has her own little
spade and hoe, and rake, and trowel, and fork--she plants her own seeds, and pricks her own
seedlings, prunes, grafts, and watches with the deepest eagerness to see them grow. In springtime,
her interest is alike divided between the opening buds of her daffodils, and the breaking of
the eggs of the first little chickens, for she has a fine poultry yard too, and is very successful
in her management of it. She is full of vitality, and is the pivot on which every member of
the house turns. Blessed with an adoring husband, and healthy, handsome, obedient children,
who come to her for everything and tell her anything, her life seems idyllic.

'Now and then', she remarks laughing, 'I really have great difficulty in securing two quiet
hours for my work'; but everything is done in such method and order, the writing included,
there is little wonder that so much is got through. It is a full, happy, complete life. 'I
think', she adds, 'my one great dread and anxiety is a review. I never yet have got over my
terror of it, and as each one arrives, I tremble and quake afresh ere reading'.

April's Lady is one of the author's lately published works. It is in the three volumes, and
ran previously as a serial in Belgravia. Lady Patty, a society sketch drawn from life, has
a most favourable reception from the critics and public alike, but in her last novel, very
cleverly entitled Nor Wife Nor Maid, Mrs. Hungerford is to be seen, or rather read, at her
best. This charming book, so full of pathos, so replete with tenderness, ran into a second
edition in about ten days. In it the author has taken somewhat of a departure from her usual
lively style. Here she has indeed given 'sorrow words'. The third volume is so especially powerful
and dramatic, that it keeps the attention chained. The description indeed of poor Mary's grief
and despair are hardly to be outdone. The plot contains a delicate situation, most delicately
worked out. Not a word or suspicion of a word jars upon the reader. It is not however all gloom.
There is in it a second pair of lovers who help to lift the clouds, and bring a smile to the
lips of the reader.

Mrs. Hungerford does not often leave her pretty Irish home. What with her incessant literary
work, her manifold domestic occupations, and the cares of her large family, she can seldom
be induced to quit what she calls, 'an out and out country life', even to pay visits to her
English friends. Mrs. Hungerford unhesitatingly declares that everything in the house seems
wrong, and there is a howl of dismay from the children when the presiding genius even suggests
a few days' leave of absence. Last year, however, she determined to go over London at the pressing
invitation of a friend, in order to make the acquaintance of some of her distinguished brothers
and sisters of the pen, and she speaks of how thoroughly she enjoyed that visit, with an eager
delight. 'Everyone was so kind', she says, 'so flattering, far, far too flattering. They all
seemed to have some pretty thing to say to me. I have felt a little spoilt ever since. However,
I am going to try what a little more flattery will do for me, so Mr. Hungerford and I hope
to accept, next Spring, a second invitation from the same friend, who wants us to go to a large
ball she is going to give some time in May for some charitable institution--a Cottage Hospital
I believe; but come', she adds, suddenly springing up, 'we have spent quite too much time over
my stupid self. Come back to the drawing-room and the chicks, I am sure they must be wondering
where we are, and the tea and the cakes are growing cold'.

At this moment the door opens, and her husband, gun in hand, with muddy boots and gaiters,
nods to you from the threshold; he says he dare not enter the 'den' in this state, and hurries
up to change before joining the tea table. 'He is a great athlete', says his wife, 'good at
cricket, football, and hockey, and equally fond of shooting, fishing, and riding'. That he
is a capital whip, you have already found out.

In the morning you see from the library window a flower garden and shrubbery, with rose trees
galore, and after breakfast a stroll round the place is proposed. A brisk walk down the avenue
first, and then back to the beech trees standing on the lawn, which slopes away from the house
down to a river running at the bottom of a deep valley, up the long gravelled walk by the hall
door, and you turn into a handsome walled kitchen garden, where fruit trees abound--apple and
pear trees laden with fruit, a quarter of an acre of strawberry beds, and currant and raspberry
bushes in plenty.

But time and tide, trains and steamers, wait to for no man, or woman either. A few hours later
you regretfully bid adieu to the charming little author, and watch her until the bend of the
road hides her from your sight. Mr. Hungerford sees you through the first stage of the journey,
which is all accomplished satisfactorily, and you reach home to find that whilst you have been
luxuriating in fresh sea and country air, London has been wrapped in four days of gloom and
darkness."

Complement:

Helen C. BLACK, In memoriam The late Mrs. Hungerford from The Englishwoman April 1897 pp. 102-105

"The sad news of the death of the popular and well-known author, Mrs. Hungerford, has caused
a universal thrill of sorrow, no less to her many friends than to the large section of the
reading public, in every part of the globe where the English tongue is spoken, who delight
in her simple but bright and witty love-stories, so full of pathos, so replete with tenderness
and human interest. The melancholy event took place on Sunday morning, the 24th January, after
many weeks' illness from typhoid fever, and has deprived what the beloved little writer was
wont to call 'a perfectly happy and idyllic Irish home' of its chiefest treasure.

The late Mrs. Hungerford came before the public at the early age of eighteen, when she made
an immediate success with her first novel, Phyllis, which was read and accepted by Mr. James
Payn, then reader for Messrs. Smith Elder & Co. Her natural bent towards literature had, however,
manifested itself in childhood, when she took at school all the prizes in composition, and
used to keep her playfellows enthralled by the stories and fairy-tales she invented and wrote
for them. On leaving school she at once decided to adopt the pen as a profession, in which
she has had so successful a career. The tone of Phyllis was so fresh and ingenuous that it
soon found favour with the public, and was shortly followed by the far-famed Molly Bawn--a
title which was peculiarly associated with her, inasmuch as it was the name by which many friends
called her--and a long series, numbering over forty novels, besides countless short stories
for home and American magazines, where, together with Australia and India, she enjoyed a vast
popularity. In America everything she wrote was rapidly printed off, first sheets of novels
in hand being bought from her for Transatlantic publications long before there was any chance
of their being completed, while every story she ever wrote can be found in the Tauchnitz series.
Among her earlier works are Portia, Mrs. Geoffrey, Airy Fairy Lilian, Rossmoyne, etc., which
were followed as years rolled on, by Undercurrents, A Life's Remorse, A Born Coquette--where
her creation of the delightful old butler, Murphy, is equal to anything ever written by her
compatriot Charles Lever--, Nor Wife, nor Maid, The Professor's Experiment, etc. The latest
work that she lived to see published is a collection of clever, crisp stories, entitled An
Anxious Moment, which, with a strange and pathetic significance, terminates with a brief paper
called 'How I Write my Novels'. Two posthumous works were left completed, bearing the names,
respectively, of Lovice, just issued, and The Coming of Chloe, which will shortly be brought out.

Thoroughly wholesome in tone, bright and sparkling in style, the delicacy of here love-scenes
and the lightness of touch that distinguishes her character sketches can only be equalled by
the pathos, which every now and then she has thrown in, as if to temper her vivacity with a
little shade. Here and there, as in the case of Nor Wife, nor Maid, she has struck a powerfully
dramatic note, while her descriptions of scenery are especially vivid and delightful, and very
often full of poetry. By this most happy union, she has left three children--two sons and a
daughter.

Thoroughly domestic in all her tastes, with a love of gardening, and a practical knowledge
of all the details of country life, which tend to make the home so comfortable, her unfailing
sweet temper, ready wit and espièglerie, her powers of sympathy and strong common sense, caused
her to be the life and center of her large household. Tenderly attached to her husband and
family, by all of whom she was adored, she used often to say, with joy and pride, 'They came
to her for everything, and told her everything, and it was a union of perfect love, confidence,
and peace'. In social life she numbered a large circle of friends, to whom she was deservedly
endeared by her many engaging qualities; she possessed, indeed, a magnetism which drew all
hearts towards her. But seldom could Mrs. Hungerford be induced to leave her picturesque Irish
home, even to pay visits to her friends in England. Her manifold duties, the cares of a large
family, and her incessant literary work filled up a life that was complete, useful, and congenial,
and leaves behind an irreparable blank.

A brief description of the well-beloved little author and her pretty home will be interesting
to those who knew her not, save through her works. She was a very tiny woman, but slight and
well-proportioned, with baby hands and feet.

Driving up the hill, past Ballymoden Church, in through the gates of Castle Barnard, Lord Bandon's
beautiful old place covered with ivy, out through a second gate and over the railway, the gates
of St. Brenda are reached. From the library window can be seen the flower garden and shrubbery
and a large variety of rose trees. Close by is her own special plot where she delighted to
work with her own little implements, spade, trowel, hoe, and rake, planting her seeds, pricking
her seedlings, pruning, grafting, and watching with deepest eagerness to see them grow. But
among all these multifarious and healthy outdoor occupations in which she delighted, Mrs. Hungerford
invariably secured three hours daily for her literary pursuits, when everything was done with
such method and order, the writing included, that there was little wonder that she got through
so much.

On the great knee-hole writing table lies the now silent pen where last she used it, with each
big or little bundle of MSS. methodically labelled, and a long list of engagements for work,
extending into future years, now, alas! destined to remain unfulfilled!

With so active a brain she was a bad sleeper, and always planned out her best schemes during
the night, and wrote them out in the morning without difficulty. Driving, too, had a curious
effect upon her; the action of the air seemed to stimulate her, and she disliked talking, or
being talked to, when driving. If questioned how she went to work about a plot she would reply,
with a reproachful little laugh, 'I never have a plot really, not the bona fide plot one looks
for in a novel.

But in whatsoever form the gifted writer composed her novels the result was the same, and she
will be widely mourned by the many, who in hours of sickness, of carking care or sorrow, owed
a temporary respite from heavy thought, or the laugh that banishes ennui, to her ready pen--grave
and gay by turns, but in every mood bewitching. During her long illness, with its constant
relapses, its alternations of now hope, now despair, her patience and unselfishness were exhibited
to a remarkable degree. Ever fearful to give trouble, hopeful and wishing to encourage the
loved ones around her, she maintained a gentle cheerfulness and resignation, and finally passed
away so peacefully that her sorrowing husband and children scarcely realised the moment when
her spirit winged its flight to the better land, whence she, being dead, 'yet speaketh', for
'to live in hearts we leave behind is not to die'."

