Up very early, and by water to Whitehall to my Lord's, and there up to my Lord's lodging (Win.
Howe being now ill of the gout at Mr. Pierce's), and there talked with him about the affairs
of the Navy, and how I was now to wait today at the Privy Seal.  Commissioner Pett went with
me, whom I desired to make my excuse at the office for my absence this day.  Hence to the Privy
Seal Office, where I got (by Mr. Mathews' means) possession of the books and table, but with
some expectation of Baron's bringing of a warrant from the King to have this month.  Nothing
done this morning, Baron having spoke to Mr. Woodson and Groome (clerks to Mr. Trumbull of
the Signet) to keep all work in their hands till the afternoon, at which time he expected to
have his warrant from the King for this month.--[The clerks of the Privy Seal took the duty
of attendance for a month by turns.]--I took at noon Mr. Harper to the Leg in King Street,
and did give him his dinner, who did still advise me much to act wholly myself at the Privy
Seal, but I told him that I could not, because I had other business to take up my time.  After
I had signed all, I went with Dick Scobell and Luellin to drink at a bottle beer house in the
Strand, and after staying there a while (had sent W. Hewer home before), I took boat and homewards
went, and in Fish Street bought a Lobster, and as I had bought it I met with Winter and Mr.
Delabarr, and there with a piece of sturgeon of theirs we went to the Sun Tavern in the street
and ate them.  Late home and to bed.

2d.  From thence dined with Mr. Blackburne at his house with his friends (his wife being in
the country and just upon her return to London), where we were very well treated and merry.
With my money home by coach, it, being the first time that I could get home before our gates
were shut since I came to the Navy office.  When I came home I found my wife not very well
of her old pain . .  .  .  which she had when we were married first.

3rd.  Up betimes this morning, and after the barber had done with me, then to the office, where
I and Sir William Pen only did meet and despatch business.  At noon my wife and I by coach
to Dr. Clerke's to dinner: I was very much taken with his lady, a comely, proper woman, though
not handsome; but a woman of the best language I ever heard.  Here dined Mrs. Pierce and her
husband.  After dinner I took leave to go to Westminster, where I was at the Privy Seal Office
all day, signing things and taking money, so that I could not do as I had intended, that is
to return to them and go to the Red Bull Playhouse,

     [This well-known theatre was situated in St. John's Street on the
     site of Red Bull Yard.  Pepys went there on March 23rd, 1661, when
     he expressed a very poor opinion of the place.  T. Carew, in some
     commendatory lines on Sir William.  Davenant's play, "The just
     Italian," 1630, abuses both audiences and actors:--

              "There are the men in crowded heaps that throng
               To that adulterate stage, where not a tongue
               Of th' untun'd kennel can a line repeat
               Of serious sense."

     There is a token of this house (see "Boyne's Trade Tokens," ed.
     Williamson, vol. i., 1889, p. 725).]

but I took coach and went to see whether it was done so or no, and I found it done.  So I returned
to Dr. Clerke's, where I found them and my wife, and by and by took leave and went away home.
I found my Lady Jemimah--[Lady Jemima Montage, daughter of Lord Sandwich, previously described
as Mrs. Jem.]--at my Lord's, with whom I staid and dined, all alone; after dinner to the Privy
Seal Office, where I did business. After that I went and bespoke some linen of Betty Lane in
the Hall, and after that to the Trumpet, where I sat and talked with her, &c.  At night, it
being very rainy, and it thundering and lightning exceedingly, I took coach at the Trumpet
door, taking Monsieur L'Impertinent along with me as far as the Savoy, where he said he went
to lie with Cary Dillon,

     [Colonel Cary Dillon, a friend of the Butlers, who courted the fair
     Frances; but the engagement was subsequently broken off, see
     December 31 st, 1661.]

and is still upon the mind of going (he and his whole family) to Ireland. Having set him down
I made haste home, and in the courtyard, it being very dark, I heard a man inquire for my house,
and having asked his business, he told me that my man William (who went this morning--out of
town to meet his aunt Blackburne) was come home not very well to his mother, and so could not
come home to-night.  At which I was very sorry. I found my wife still in pain.  To bed, having
not time to write letters, and indeed having so many to write to all places that I have no
heart to go about them.  Mrs. Shaw did die yesterday and her husband so sick that he is not
like to live.

5th.  Lord's day.  My wife being much in pain, I went this morning to Dr. Williams (who had
cured her once before of this business), in Holborn, and he did give me an ointment which I
sent home by my boy, and a plaister which I took with me to Westminster (having called and
seen my mother in the morning as I went to the doctor), where I dined with Mr. Sheply (my Lord
dining at Kensington).  After dinner to St. Margaret's, where the first time I ever heard Common
Prayer in that Church.  I sat with Mr. Hill in his pew; Mr. Hill that married in Axe Yard and
that was aboard us in the Hope.  Church done I went and Mr. Sheply to see W. Howe at Mr. Pierces,
where I staid singing of songs and psalms an hour or two, and were very pleasant with Mrs.
Pierce and him.  Thence to my Lord's, where I staid and talked and drank with Mr. Sheply. 
After that to Westminster stairs, where I saw a fray between Mynheer Clinke, a Dutchman, that
was at Hartlibb's wedding, and a waterman, which made good sport.  After that I got a Gravesend
boat, that was come up to fetch some bread on this side the bridge, and got them to carry me
to the bridge, and so home, where I found my wife.  After prayers I to bed to her, she having
had a very bad night of it.  This morning before I was up Will came home pretty well again,
he having been only weary with riding, which he is not used to.

6th.  This morning at the office, and, that being done, home to dinner all alone, my wife being
ill in pain a-bed, which I was troubled at, and not a little impatient.  After dinner to Whitehall
at the Privy Seal all the afternoon, and at night with Mr. Man to Mr. Rawlinson's in Fenchurch
Street, where we staid till eleven o'clock at night.  So home and to bed, my wife being all
this day in great pain.  This morning to Whitehall to the Privy Seal, and took Mr. Moore and
myself and dined at my Lord's with Mr. Sheply.  He staying long I left the coach and walked
back again before on foot (a very pleasant walk) to Kensington, where I drank and staid very
long waiting for him.  At last he came, and after drinking at the inn we went towards Westminster.
Here I endeavoured to have looked out Jane that formerly lived at Dr. Williams' at Cambridge,
whom I had long thought to live at present here, but I found myself in an error, meeting one
in the place where I expected to have found her, but she proved not she though very like her.
We went to the Bullhead, where he and I sat and drank till 11 at night, and so home on foot.
Found my wife pretty well again, and so to bed.

8th.  We met at the office, and after that to dinner at home, and from thence with my wife
by water to Catan Sterpin, with whom and her mistress Pye we sat discoursing of Kate's marriage
to Mons. Petit, her mistress and I giving the best advice we could for her to suspend her marriage
till Mons. Petit had got some place that may be able to maintain her, and not for him to live
upon the portion that she shall bring him. From thence to Mr. Butler's to see his daughters,
the first time that ever we made a visit to them.  We found them very pretty, and Coll. Dillon
there, a very merry and witty companion, but methinks they live in a gaudy but very poor condition.
From thence, my wife and I intending to see Mrs. Blackburne, who had been a day or two again
to see my wife, but my wife was not in condition to be seen, but she not being at home my wife
went to her mother's and I to the Privy Seal.  At night from the Privy Seal, Mr. Woodson and
Mr. Jennings and I to the Sun Tavern till it was late, and from thence to my Lord's, where
my wife was come from Mrs. Blackburne's to me, and after I had done some business with my Lord,
she and I went to Mrs. Hunt's, who would needs have us to lie at her house to-night, she being
with my wife so late at my Lord's with us, and would not let us go home to-night.  We lay there
all night very pleasantly and at ease .  .  .

9th.  Thence to my office of Privy Seal, and, having signed some things there, with Mr. Moore
and Dean Fuller to the Leg in King Street, and, sending for my wife, we dined there very merry,
and after dinner, parted.  After dinner with my wife to Mrs. Blackburne to visit her.  She
being within I left my wife there, and I to the Privy Seal, where I despatch some business,
and from thence to Mrs. Blackburne again, who did treat my wife and me with a great deal of
civility, and did give us a fine collation of collar of beef, &c.  Thence I, having my head
full of drink from having drunk so much Rhenish wine in the morning, and more in the afternoon
at Mrs. Blackburne's, came home and so to bed, not well, and very ill all night.

10th.  I had a great deal of pain all night, and a great loosing upon me so that I could not
sleep.  In the morning I rose with much pain and to the office. Returned from Hide Park, I
went to my Lord's, and took Will (who waited for me there) by coach and went home, taking my
lute home with me. It had been all this while since I came from sea at my Lord's for him to
play on. To bed in some pain still.  For this month or two it is not imaginable how busy my
head has been, so that I have neglected to write letters to my uncle Robert in answer to many
of his, and to other friends, nor indeed have I done anything as to my own family, and especially
this month my waiting at the Privy Seal makes me much more unable to think of anything, because
of my constant attendance there after I have done at the Navy Office.  But blessed be God for
my good chance of the Privy Seal, where I get every day I believe about L3.  This place I got
by chance, and my Lord did give it me by chance, neither he nor I thinking it to be of the
worth that he and I find it to be.  Never since I was a man in the world was I ever so great
a stranger to public affairs as now I am, having not read a new book or anything like it, or
enquiring after any news, or what the Parliament do, or in any wise how things go.  Many people
look after my house in Axe-yard to hire it, so that I am troubled with them, and I have a mind
to get the money to buy goods for my house at the Navy Office, and yet I am loth to put it
off because that Mr. Man bids me L1000 for my office, which is so great a sum that I am loth
to settle myself at my new house, lest I should take Mr. Man's offer in case I found my Lord
willing to it.

11th.  I rose to-day without any pain, which makes me think that my pain yesterday was nothing
but from my drinking too much the day before.  To my Lord this morning, who did give me order
to get some things ready against the afternoon for the Admiralty where he would meet.  To the
Privy Seal, and from thence going to my own house in Axeyard, I went in to Mrs. Crisp's, where
I met with Mr. Hartlibb; for whom I wrote a letter for my Lord to sign for a ship for his brother
and sister, who went away hence this day to Gravesend, and from thence to Holland.  I found
by discourse with Mrs. Crisp that he is very jealous of her, for that she is yet very kind
to her old servant Meade.  Hence to my Lord's to dinner with Mr. Sheply, so to the Privy Seal;
and at night home, and then sent for the barber, and was trimmed in the kitchen, the first
time that ever I was so. I was vexed this night that W. Hewer was out of doors till ten at
night but was pretty well satisfied again when my wife told me that he wept because I was angry,
though indeed he did give me a good reason for his being out; but I thought it a good occasion
to let him know that I do expect his being at home.  So to bed.

12th.  Lord's day.  At the Restoration he received the
     appointment of Master of the Children of the Chapel Royal; he was an
     excellent musician, and three of his pupils turned out very
     distinguished musicians, viz, Pelham Humphrey, John Blow, and
     Michael Wise.  He was one of the original performers in the "Siege,
     of Rhodes."  He died July 13th, 1672,: and was buried in the
     cloisters of Westminster Abbey.  In another place, Pepys says, "a
     vain coxcomb he is, though he sings so well."]

which he himself sung, and the King was well pleased with it.  My Lord dined at my Lord Chamberlain's,
and I at his house with Mr. Sheply. After dinner I did give Mr. Donne; who is going to sea,
the key of my cabin and direction for the putting up of my things.

After, that I went to walk, and meeting Mrs. Lane of Westminster Hall, I took her to my Lord's,
and did give her a bottle of wine in the garden, where Mr. Fairbrother, of Cambridge, did come
and found us, and drank with us.  After that I took her to my house, where I was exceeding
free in dallying with her, and she not unfree to take it.  At night home and called at my father's,
where I found Mr. Fairbrother, but I did not stay but went homewards and called in at Mr. Rawlinson's,
whither my uncle Wight was coming and did come, but was exceeding angry (he being a little
fuddled, and I think it was that I should see him in that case) as I never saw him in my life,
which I was somewhat troubled at.  Home and to bed.

13th.  A sitting day at our office.  After dinner to Whitehall; to the Privy Seal, whither
my father came to me, and staid talking with me a great while, telling me that he had propounded
Mr. John Pickering for Sir Thomas Honywood's daughter, which I think he do not deserve for
his own merit: I know not what he may do for his estate.  My father and Creed and I to the
old Rhenish Winehouse, and talked and drank till night.  Then my father home, and I to my Lord's;
where he told me that he would suddenly go into the country, and so did commend the business
of his sea commission to me in his absence.  After that home by coach, and took my L100 that
I had formerly left at Mr. Rawlinson's, home with me, which is the first that ever I was master
of at once.  To prayers, and to bed.

14th.  To the Privy Seal, and thence to my Lord's, where Mr. Pim, the
tailor, and I agreed upon making me a velvet coat.  Home by water to the Tower, where my father, Mr.
Fairbrother, and Cooke dined with me.  After dinner in comes young Captain
Cuttance of the Speedwell, who is sent up for the gratuity given the
seamen that brought the King over.  He brought me a firkin of butter for
my wife, which is very welcome.  My father, after dinner, takes leave,
after I had given him 40s. for the last half year for my brother John at
Cambridge.  I did also make even with Mr. Fairbrother for my degree of
Master of Arts, which cost me about L9 16s.  To White Hall, and my wife
with me by water, where at the Privy Seal and elsewhere all the afternoon.
At night home with her by water, where I made good sport with having the
girl and the boy to comb my head, before I went to bed, in the kitchen.  Queen Elizabeth had a yacht, and one was built
     by Phineas Pett in 1604.]

where he dines, and my Lord with him.  The King do tire all his people that are about him with
early rising since he came.  To the office, all the afternoon I staid there, and in the evening
went to Westminster Hall, where I staid at Mrs. Michell's, and with her and her husband sent
for some drink, and drank with them.  By the same token she and Mrs. Murford and another old
woman of the Hall were going a gossiping tonight.  From thence to my Lord's, where I found
him within, and he did give me direction about his business in his absence, he intending to
go into the country to-morrow morning.  Here I lay all night in the old chamber which I had
now given up to W. Howe, with whom I did intend to lie, but he and I fell to play with one
another, so that I made him to go lie with Mr. Sheply.  So I lay alone all night.

16th.  This morning my Lord (all things being ready) carried me by coach to Mr. Crew's, (in
the way talking how good he did hope my place would be to me, and in general speaking that
it was not the salary of any place that did make a man rich, but the opportunity of getting
money while he is in the place) where he took leave, and went into the coach, and so for Hinchinbroke.
My Lady Jemimah and Mr. Thomas Crew in the coach with him. Hence to Whitehall about noon, where
I met with Mr. Madge, who took me along with him and Captain Cooke (the famous singer) and
other masters of music to dinner at an ordinary about Charing Cross where we dined, all paying
their club.  Hence to the Privy Seal, where there has been but little work these two days.
In the evening home.

17th.  To the office, and that done home to dinner where Mr. Unthanke, my wife's tailor, dined
with us, we having nothing but a dish of sheep's trotters.  After dinner by water to Whitehall,
where a great deal of business at the Privy Seal.  At night I and Creed and the judge-Advocate
went to Mr. Pim, the tailor's, who took us to the Half Moon, and there did give us great store
of wine and anchovies, and would pay for them all. This night I saw Mr. Creed show many the
strangest emotions to shift off his drink I ever saw in my life.  By coach home and to bed.

18th.  This morning I took my wife towards Westminster by water, and landed her at Whitefriars,
with L5 to buy her a petticoat, and I to the Privy Seal.  By and by comes my wife to tell me
that my father has persuaded her to buy a most fine cloth of 26s. a yard, and a rich lace,
that the petticoat will come to L5, at which I was somewhat troubled, but she doing it very
innocently, I could not be angry.  I did give her more money, and sent her away, and I and
Creed and Captain Hayward (who is now unkindly put out of the Plymouth to make way for Captain
Allen to go to Constantinople, and put into his ship the Dover, which I know will trouble my
Lord) went and dined at the Leg in King Street, where Captain Ferrers, my Lord's Cornet, comes
to us, who after dinner took me and Creed to the Cockpitt play,

     [The Cockpit Theatre, situated in Drury Lane, was occupied as a
     playhouse in the reign of James I.  It was occupied by Davenant and
     his company in 1658, and they remained in it until.  After the play done, we three went to drink, and by Captain
Ferrers' means, Kinaston and another that acted Archas, the General, came
and drank with us.  Hence home by coach, and after being trimmed, leaving
my wife to look after her little bitch, which was just now a-whelping, I
to bed.

19th (Lord's day).  In the morning my wife tells me that the bitch has whelped four young ones
and is very well after it, my wife having had a great fear that she would die thereof, the
dog that got them being very big.  This morning Sir W. Batten, Pen, and myself, went to church
to the churchwardens, to demand a pew, which at present could not be given us, but we are resolved
to have one built.  So we staid and heard Mr. Mills;' a very, good minister.  Home to dinner,
where my wife had on her new petticoat that she bought yesterday, which indeed is a very fine
cloth and a fine lace; but that being of a light colour, and the lace all silver, it makes
no great show.  Mr. Creed and my brother Tom dined with me.  After dinner my wife went and
fetched the little puppies to us, which are very pretty ones.  After they were gone, I went
up to put my papers in order, and finding my wife's clothes lie carelessly laid up, I was angry
with her, which I was troubled for.  After that my wife and I went and walked in the garden,
and so home to bed.

20th (Office day).  As Sir W. Pen and I were walking in the garden, a messenger came to me
from the Duke of York to fetch me to the Lord Chancellor.  So (Mrs. Turner with her daughter
The. being come to my house to speak with me about a friend of hers to send to sea) I went
with her in her coach as far as Worcester House, but my Lord Chancellor being gone to the House
of Lords, I went thither, and (there being a law case before them this day) got in, and there
staid all the morning, seeing their manner of sitting on woolpacks, &c., which I never did before.

     [It is said that these woolpacks were placed in the House of Lords
     for the judges to sit on, so that the fact that wool was a main
     source of our national wealth might be kept in the popular mind.
     The Lord Chancellor's seat is now called the Woolsack.]

After the House was up, I spoke to my Lord, and had order from him to come to him at night.
This morning Mr. Creed did give me the Papers that concern my Lord's sea commission, which
he left in my hands and went to sea this day to look after the gratuity money.

This afternoon at the Privy Seal, where reckoning with Mr. Moore, he had got L100 for me together,
which I was glad of, guessing that the profits of this month would come to L100. That being
done, I went home, where I found all my things come home from sea (sent by desire by Mr. Dun),
of which I was glad, though many of my things are quite spoilt with mould by reason of lying
so long a shipboard, and my cabin being not tight.  I spent much time to dispose of them tonight,
and so to bed.

21st.  This morning I went to White Hall with Sir W. Pen by water, who in our passage told
me how he was bred up under Sir W. Batten.  We went to Mr. Coventry's chamber, and consulted
of drawing my papers of debts of the Navy against the afternoon for the Committee.  So to the
Admiralty, where W. Hewer and I did them, and after that he went to his Aunt's Blackburn (who
has a kinswoman dead at her house to-day, and was to be buried to-night, by which means he
staid very late out).  After that to bed.

22nd.  Office, which done, Sir W. Pen took me into the garden, and there told me how Mr. Turner
do intend to petition the Duke for an allowance extra as one of the Clerks of the Navy, which
he desired me to join with him in the furthering of, which I promised to do so that it did
not reflect upon me or to my damage to have any other added, as if I was not able to perform
my place; which he did wholly disown to be any of his intention, but far from it.  I took Mr.
Hater home with me to dinner, with whom I did advise, who did give me the same counsel.  After
dinner he and I to the office about doing something more as to the debts of the Navy than I
had done yesterday, and so to Whitehall to the Privy Seal, and having done there, with my father
(who came to see me) to Westminster Hall and the Parliament House to look for Col. Birch, but
found him not.  Hence to my father's (walking with Mr. Herring, the minister of St. Bride's),
and took them to the Sun Tavern, where I found George, my old drawer, come again.  From thence
by water, landed them at Blackfriars, and so home and to bed.

23rd.  Hence to Westminster Hall, where I met with my father Bowyer, and Mr. Spicer, and them
I took to the Leg in King Street, and did give them a dish or two of meat, and so away to the
Privy Seal, where, the King being out of town, we have had nothing to do these two days.  To
Westminster Hall, where I met with W. Symons, T. Doling, and Mr. Booth, and with them to the
Dogg, where we eat a musk melon

     ["Melons were hardly known in England till Sir George Gardiner
     brought one from Spain, when they became in general estimation.  The
     ordinary price was five or six shillings."--Quarterly Review, vol,
     xix.]

(the first that I have eat this year), and were very merry with W. Symons, calling him Mr.
Dean, because of the Dean's lands that his uncle had left him, which are like to be lost all.
Hence home by water, and very late at night writing letters to my Lord to Hinchinbroke, and
also to the Vice-Admiral in the Downs, and so to bed.

24th.  Office, and thence with Sir William Batten and Sir William Pen to the parish church
to find out a place where to build a seat or a gallery to sit in, and did find one which is
to be done speedily.  Hence with them to dinner at a tavern in Thames Street, where they were
invited to a roasted haunch of venison and other very good victuals and company. Hence to Whitehall
to the Privy Seal, but nothing to do.  At night by land to my father's, where I found my mother
not very well.  I did give her a pint of sack.  My father came in, and Dr. T. Pepys, who talked
with me in French about looking out for a place for him.  But I found him a weak man, and speaks
the worst French that ever I heard of one that had been so long beyond sea.  Hence into Pant's
Churchyard and bought Barkley's Argenis in Latin, and so home and to bed.  I found at home
that Captain Burr had sent me 4 dozen bottles of wine today.  The King came back to Whitehall
to-night.

25th.  This morning Mr. Turner and I by coach from our office to Whitehall (in our way I calling
on Dr. Walker for the papers I did give him the other day, which he had perused and found that
the Duke's counsel had abated something of the former draught which Dr. Walker drew for my
Lord) to Sir G.  Carteret, where we there made up an estimate of the debts of the Navy for
the Council.  At noon I took Mr. Turner and Mr. Moore to the Leg in King Street, and did give
them a dinner, and afterward to the Sun Tavern, and did give Mr. Turner a glass of wine, there
coming to us Mr. Fowler the apothecary (the judge's son) with a book of lute lessons which
his father had left there for me, such as he formerly did use to play when a young man, and
had the use of his hand. To the Privy Seal, and found some business now again to do there.
To Westminster Hall for a new half-shirt of Mrs. Lane, and so home by water. Wrote letters
by the post to my Lord and to sea.  So to bed.

26th (Lord's day).  With Sir W.  Pen to the parish church, where we are placed in the highest
pew of all, where a stranger preached a dry and tedious long sermon.  Dined at home.  To church
again in the afternoon with my wife; in the garden and on the leads at night, and so to supper
and to bed.

27th.  This morning comes one with a vessel of Northdown ale from Mr. Pierce, the purser, to
me, and after him another with a brave Turkey carpet and a jar of olives from Captain Cuttance,
and a pair of fine turtle-doves from John Burr to my wife.  These things came up to-day in
our smack, and my boy Ely came along with them, and came after office was done to see me. 
I did give him half a crown because I saw that he was ready to cry to see that he could not
be entertained by me here.  In the afternoon to the Privy Seal, where good store of work now
toward the end of the month.  From thence with Mr. Mount, Luellin, and others to the Bull head
till late, and so home, where about to o'clock Major Hart came to me, whom I did receive with
wine and anchovies, which made me so dry that I was ill with them all night, and was fain to
have the girle rise and fetch me some drink.

28th.  At home looking over my papers and books and house as to the fitting of it to my mind
till two in the afternoon.  Some time I spent this morning beginning to teach my wife some
scale in music, and found her apt beyond imagination.  To the Privy Seal, where great store
of work to-day.  Colonel Scroope--[Colonel Adrian Scroope, one of the persons who sat in judgment
upon Charles I.]--is this day excepted out of the Act of Indemnity, which has been now long
in coming out, but it is expected to-morrow.  I carried home L80 from the Privy Seal, by coach,
and at night spent a little more time with my wife about her music with great content. This
day I heard my poor mother had then two days been very ill, and I fear she will not last long.
To bed, a little troubled that I fear my boy Will

     [Pepys refers to two Wills.  This was Will Wayneman; the other was
     William Hewer.]

is a thief and has stole some money of mine, particularly a letter that Mr. Jenkins did leave
the last week with me with half a crown in it to send to his son.

29th (Office day).  Before I went to the office my wife and I examined my boy Will about his
stealing of things, but he denied all with the greatest subtlety and confidence in the world.
To the office, and after office then to the Church, where we took another view of the place
where we had resolved to build a gallery, and have set men about doing it. Home to dinner,
and there I found my wife had discovered my boy Will's theft and a great deal more than we
imagined, at which I was vexed and intend to put him away.  To my office at the Privy Seal
in the afternoon, and from thence at night to the Bull Head, with Mount, Luellin, and others,
and hence to my father's, and he being at my uncle Fenner's, I went thither to him, and there
sent for my boy's father and talked with him about his son, and had his promise that if I will
send home his boy, he will take him notwithstanding his indenture.  Home at night, and find
that my wife had found out more of the boy's stealing 6s. out of W. Hewer's closet, and hid
it in the house of office, at which my heart was troubled.  To bed, and caused the boy's clothes
to be brought up to my chamber.  But after we were all a-bed, the wench (which lies in our
chamber) called us to listen of a sudden, which put my wife into such a fright that she shook
every joint of her, and a long time that I could not get her out of it.  The noise was the
boy, we did believe, got in a desperate mood out of his bed to do himself or William [Hewer]
some mischief.  But the wench went down and got a candle lighted, and finding the boy in bed,
and locking the doors fast, with a candle burning all night, we slept well, but with a great
deal of fear.

30th.  We found all well in the morning below stairs, bu the boy in a sad plight of seeming
sorrow; but he is the most cunning rogue that ever I met with of his age.  To White Hall, where
I met with the Act of Indemnity--[12 Car. II.  cap.  At Westminster Hall I met with Mr. Paget
the lawyer, and dined with him at Heaven. This afternoon my wife went to Mr. Pierce's wife's
child's christening, and was urged to be godmother, but I advised her before-hand not to do
it, so she did not, but as proxy for my Lady Jemimah.  This the first day that ever I saw my
wife wear black patches since we were married!

     [The fashion of placing black patches on the face was introduced
     towards the close of the reign of Charles I., and the practice is
     ridiculed in the "Spectator."]

My Lord came to town to-day, but coming not home till very late I staid till 10 at night, and
so home on foot.  Mr. Sheply and Mr. Childe this night at the tavern.

31st.  Early to wait upon my Lord at White Hall, and with him to the Duke's chamber.  So to
my office in Seething Lane.  Dined at home, and after dinner to my Lord again, who told me
that he is ordered to go suddenly to sea, and did give me some orders to be drawing up against
his going.  This afternoon I agreed to let my house quite out of my hands to Mr. Dalton (one
of the wine sellers to the King, with whom I had drunk in the old wine cellar two or three
times) for L41.  At night made even at Privy Seal for this month against tomorrow to give up
possession, but we know not to whom, though we most favour Mr. Bickerstaffe, with whom and
Mr. Matthews we drank late after office was done at the Sun, discoursing what to do about it
tomorrow against Baron, and so home and to bed. Blessed be God all things continue well with
and for me.  I pray God fit me for a change of my fortune.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                              SEPTEMBER
                                 1660

September 1st.  This morning I took care to get a vessel to carry my Lord's things to the Downs
on Monday next, and so to White Hall to my Lord, where he and I did look over the Commission
drawn for him by the Duke's Council, which I do not find my Lord displeased with, though short
of what Dr. Walker did formerly draw for him.  Thence to the Privy Seal to see how things went
there, and I find that Mr. Baron had by a severe warrant from the King got possession of the
office from his brother Bickerstaffe, which is very strange, and much to our admiration, it
being against all open justice.  Mr. Moore and I and several others being invited to-day by
Mr. Goodman, a friend of his, we dined at the Bullhead upon the best venison pasty that ever
I eat of in my life, and with one dish more, it was the best dinner I ever was at.  Here rose
in discourse at table a dispute between Mr. Moore and Dr. Clerke, the former affirming that
it was essential to a tragedy to have the argument of it true, which the Doctor denied, and
left it to me to be judge, and the cause to be determined next Tuesday morning at the same
place, upon the eating of the remains of the pasty, and the loser to spend 10s.  Late home,
and what with business and my boy's roguery my mind being unquiet, I went to bed.

2nd (Sunday).  To Westminster, my Lord being gone before my coming to chapel.  I and Mr. Sheply
told out my money, and made even for my Privy Seal fees and gratuity money, &c., to this day
between my Lord and me. After that to chappell, where Dr. Fern, a good honest sermon upon "The
Lord is my shield."  After sermon a dull anthem, and so to my Lord's (he dining abroad) and
dined with Mr. Sheply.  So, to St. Margarett's, and heard a good sermon upon the text "Teach
us the old way," or something like it, wherein he ran over all the new tenets in policy and
religion, which have brought us into all our late divisions.  From church to Mrs. Crisp's (having
sent Win. Hewer home to tell my wife that I could not come home to-night because of my Lord's
going out early to-morrow morning), where I sat late, and did give them a great deal of wine,
it being a farewell cup to Laud Crisp.  I drank till the daughter began to be very loving to
me and kind, and I fear is not so good as she should be.  To my Lord's, and to bed with Mr. Sheply.

3rd.  This morning at my Lord's I had an opportunity to speak with Sir George Downing, who
has promised me to give me up my bond, and to pay me for my last quarter while I was at sea,
that so I may pay Mr. Moore and Hawly.  About noon my Lord, having taken leave of the King
in the Shield Gallery (where I saw with what kindness the King did hug my Lord at his parting),
I went over with him and saw him in his coach at Lambeth, and there took leave of him, he going
to the Downs, which put me in mind of his first voyage that ever he made, which he did begin
like this from Lambeth.  In the afternoon with Mr. Moore to my house to cast up our Privy Seal
accounts, where I found that my Lord's comes to 400 and odd pounds, and mine to L132, out of
which I do give him as good as L25 for his pains, with which I doubt he is not satisfied, but
my heart is full glad.  Thence with him to Mr. Crew's, and did fetch as much money as did make
even our accounts between him and me.  Home, and there found Mr. Cooke come back from my Lord
for me to get him some things bought for him to be brought after them, a toilet cap and comb
case of silk, to make use of in Holland, for he goes to the Hague, which I can do to-morrow
morning.  This day my father and my uncle Fenner, and both his sons, have been at my house
to see it, and my wife did treat them nobly with wine and anchovies.  By reason of my Lord's
going to-day I could not get the office to meet to-day.

4th.  I did many things this morning at home before I went out, as looking over the joiners,
who are flooring my diningroom, and doing business with Sir Williams

     ["Both Sir Williams" is a favourite expression with Pepys, meaning
     Sir William Batten and Sir William Penn.]

both at the office, and so to Whitehall, and so to the Bullhead, where we had the remains of
our pasty, where I did give my verdict against Mr. Moore upon last Saturday's wager, where
Dr. Fuller coming in do confirm me in my verdict.  From thence to my Lord's and despatched
Mr. Cooke away with the things to my Lord.  From thence to Axe Yard to my house, where standing
at the door Mrs. Diana comes by, whom I took into my house upstairs, and there did dally with
her a great while, and found that in Latin "Nulla puella negat."  So home by water, and there
sat up late setting my papers in order, and my money also, and teaching my wife her music lesson,
in which I take great pleasure.  So to bed.

5th.  To the office.  From thence by coach upon the desire of the principal officers to a Master
of Chancery to give Mr. Stowell his oath, whereby he do answer that he did hear Phineas Pett
say very high words against the King a great while ago.  Coming back our coach broke, and so
Stowell and I to Mr. Rawlinson's, and after a glass of wine parted, and I to the office, home
to dinner, where (having put away my boy in the morning) his father brought him again, but
I did so clear up my boy's roguery to his father, that he could not speak against my putting
him away, and so I did give him 10s. for the boy's clothes that I made him, and so parted and
tore his indenture.  All the afternoon with the principal officers at Sir W. Batten's about
Pett's business (where I first saw Col. Slingsby, who has now his appointment for Comptroller),
but did bring it to no issue.  This day I saw our Dedimus to be sworn in the peace by, which
will be shortly.  In the evening my wife being a little impatient I went along with her to
buy her a necklace of pearl, which will cost L4 10s., which I am willing to comply with her
in for her encouragement, and because I have lately got money, having now above L200 in cash
beforehand in the world.  Home, and having in our way bought a rabbit and two little lobsters,
my wife and I did sup late, and so to bed. Great news now-a-day of the Duke d'Anjou's

     [Philip, Duke of Anjou, afterwards Duke of Orleans, brother of Louis
     XIV.  (born 1640, died 1701), married the Princess Henrietta,
     youngest daughter of Charles I., who was born June 16th, 1664, at
     Exeter.  She was known as "La belle Henriette."  In May, 1670, she
     came to Dover on a political mission from Louis XIV. to her brother
     Charles II., but the visit was undertaken much against the wish of
     her husband.  Her death occurred on her return to France, and
     was attributed to poison.  It was the occasion of one of the finest
     of Bossuet's "Oraisons Funebres."]

desire to marry the Princesse Henrietta.  Hugh Peters is said to be taken,

     [Hugh Peters, born at Fowey, Cornwall, and educated at Trinity
     College, Cambridge, where he graduated M.A. 1622.  He was tried as
     one of the regicides, and executed.  A broadside, entitled "The
     Welsh Hubub, or the Unkennelling and earthing of Hugh Peters that
     crafty Fox," was printed October 3rd, 1660.]

and the Duke of Gloucester is ill, and it is said it will prove the small-pox.

6th.  To Whitehall by water with Sir W. Batten, and in our passage told me how Commissioner
Pett did pay himself for the entertainment that he did give the King at Chatham at his coming
in, and 20s. a day all the time he was in Holland, which I wonder at, and so I see there is
a great deal of envy between the two.  At Whitehall I met with Commissioner Pett, who told
me how Mr. Coventry and Fairbank his solicitor are falling out, one complaining of the other
for taking too great fees, which is too true.  I find that Commissioner Pett is under great
discontent, and is loth to give too much money for his place, and so do greatly desire me to
go along with him in what we shall agree to give Mr. Coventry, which I have promised him, but
am unwilling to mix my fortune with him that is going down the wind.  We all met this morning
and afterwards at the Admiralty, where our business is to ask provision of victuals ready for
the ships in the Downs, which we did, Mr. Gauden promising to go himself thither and see it
done. Dined Will and I at my Lord's upon a joint of meat that I sent Mrs. Sarah for.  Afterwards
to my office and sent all my books to my Lord's, in order to send them to my house that I now
dwell in.  Home and to bed.

7th.  Not office day, and in the afternoon at home all the day, it being the first that I have
been at home all day since I came hither.  Putting my papers, books and other things in order,
and writing of letters.  This day my Lord set sail from the Downs for Holland.

8th.  All day also at home.  At night sent for by Sir W. Pen, with whom I sat late drinking
a glass of wine and discoursing, and I find him to be a very sociable man, and an able man,
and very cunning.

9th (Sunday).  In the morning with Sir W. Pen to church, and a very good sermon of Mr. Mills.
Home to dinner, and Sir W. Pen with me to such as I had, and it was very handsome, it being
the first time that he ever saw my wife or house since we came hither.  Afternoon to church
with my wife, and after that home, and there walked with Major Hart, who came to see me, in
the garden, who tells me that we are all like to be speedily disbanded;

     [The Trained Bands were abolished in 1663, but those of the City of
     London were specially excepted.  The officers of the Trained Bands
     were supplied by the Hon.  Artillery Company.]

and then I lose the benefit of a muster.  After supper to bed.

10th (Office day).  News of the Duke's intention to go tomorrow to the fleet for a day or two
to meet his sister.  Col. Slingsby and I to Whitehall, thinking to proffer our service to the
Duke to wait upon him, but meeting with Sir G. Carteret he sent us in all haste back again
to hire two Catches for the present use of the Duke.  So we returned and landed at the Bear
at the Bridge foot, where we saw Southwark Fair (I having not at all seen Bartholomew Fair),
and so to the Tower wharf, where we did hire two catches.  So to the office and found Sir W.
Batten at dinner with some friends upon a good chine of beef, on which I ate heartily, I being
very hungry.  Home, where Mr. Snow (whom afterwards we called one another cozen) came to me
to see me, and with him and one Shelston, a simple fellow that looks after an employment (that
was with me just upon my going to sea last), to a tavern, where till late with them. So home,
having drunk too much, and so to bed.

11th.  At Sir W.  Batten's with Sir W.  Pen we drank our morning draft, and from thence for
an hour in the office and dispatch a little business. Dined at Sir W. Batten's, and by this
time I see that we are like to have a very good correspondence and neighbourhood, but chargeable.
All the afternoon at home looking over my carpenters.  At night I called Thos. Hater out of
the office to my house to sit and talk with me.  After he was gone I caused the girl to wash
the wainscot of our parlour, which she did very well, which caused my wife and I good sport.
Up to my chamber to read a little, and wrote my Diary for three or four days past.  The Duke
of York did go to-day by break of day to the Downs.  The Duke of Gloucester ill.  The House
of Parliament was to adjourn to-day.  I know not yet whether it be done or no.  To bed.

12th (Office day).  This noon I expected to have had my cousin Snow and my father come to dine
with me, but it being very rainy they did not come. My brother Tom came to my house with a
letter from my brother John, wherein he desires some books: Barthol.  Anatom., Rosin.  Rom.
Antiq., and Gassend.  Astronom., the last of which I did give him, and an angel--[A gold coin
varying in value at different times from 6s. 8d. to 10s.]--against my father buying of the
others.  At home all the afternoon looking after my workmen, whose laziness do much trouble
me.  This day the Parliament adjourned.

13th.  Old East comes to me in the morning with letters, and I did give him a bottle of Northdown
ale, which made the poor man almost drunk.  In the afternoon my wife went to the burial of
a child of my cozen Scott's, and it is observable that within this month my Aunt Wight was
brought to bed of two girls, my cozen Stradwick of a girl and a boy, and my cozen Scott of
a boy, and all died.  In the afternoon to Westminster, where Mr. Dalton was ready with his
money to pay me for my house, but our writings not being drawn it could not be done to-day.
I met with Mr. Hawly, who was removing his things from Mr. Bowyer's, where he has lodged a
great while, and I took him and W. Bowyer to the Swan and drank, and Mr. Hawly did give me
a little black rattoon,--[Probably an Indian rattan cane.]--painted and gilt.  Home by water.

14th (Office day).  I got L42 15s. appointed me by bill for my employment of Secretary to the
4th of this month, it being the last money I shall receive upon that score.  My wife went this
afternoon to see my mother, who I hear is very ill, at which my heart is very sad.  In the
afternoon Luellin comes to my house, and takes me out to the Mitre in Wood Street, where Mr.
Samford, W.  Symons and his wife, and Mr. Scobell, Mr. Mount and Chetwind, where they were
very merry, Luellin being drunk, and I being to defend the ladies from his kissing them, I
kissed them myself very often with a great deal of mirth.  Parted very late, they by coach
to Westminster, and I on foot.

15th.  Met very early at our office this morning to pick out the twenty-five ships which are
to be first paid off: After that to Westminster and dined with Mr. Dalton at his office, where
we had one great court dish, but our papers not being done we could [not] make an end of our
business till Monday next.  Mr. Dalton and I over the water to our landlord Vanly, with whom
we agree as to Dalton becoming a tenant.  I found my mother pretty well. So home and to bed.

16th (Sunday).  To Dr. Hardy's church, and sat with Mr. Rawlinson and heard a good sermon upon
the occasion of the Duke's death.  His text was, "And is there any evil in the city and the
Lord hath not done it?" Home to dinner, having some sport with Win. [Hewer], who never had
been at Common Prayer before.  After dinner I alone to Westminster, where I spent my time walking
up and down in Westminster Abbey till sermon time with Ben. Palmer and Fetters the watchmaker,
who told me that my Lord of Oxford is also dead of the small-pox; in whom his family dies,
after 600 years having that honour in their family and name.

     [This is the Mall in St. James's Park, which was made by Charles
     II., the former Mall (Pall Mall) having been built upon during the
     Commonwealth.  Charles II. also formed the canal by throwing the
     several small ponds into one.]

Thence to White Hall garden, where I saw the King in purple mourning for his brother.

     ["The Queen-mother of France," says Ward, in his Diary, p. 177,
     "died at Agrippina, 1642, and her son Louis, 1643, for whom King
     Charles mourned in Oxford in purple, which is Prince's mourning."]

So home, and in my way met with Dinah, who spoke to me and told me she had a desire to speak
too about some business when I came to Westminster again.  Which she spoke in such a manner
that I was afraid she might tell me something that I would not hear of our last meeting at
my house at Westminster.  Home late, being very dark.  A gentleman in the Poultry had a great
and dirty fall over a waterpipe that lay along the channel.

17th.  Office very early about casting up the debts of those twenty-five ships which are to
be paid off, which we are to present to the Committee of Parliament.  I did give my wife L15
this morning to go to buy mourning things for her and me, which she did.  Dined at home and
Mr. Moore with me, and afterwards to Whitehall to Mr. Dalton and drank in the Cellar, where
Mr. Vanly according to appointment was.  Thence forth to see the Prince de Ligne, Spanish Embassador,
come in to his audience, which was done in very great state.  That being done, Dalton, Vanly,
Scrivener and some friends of theirs and I to the Axe, and signed and sealed our writings,
and hence to the Wine cellar again, where I received L41 for my interest in my house, out of
which I paid my Landlord to Michaelmas next, and so all is even between him and me, and I freed
of my poor little house.  Home by link with my money under my arm.  So to bed after I had looked
over the things my wife had bought to-day, with which being not very well pleased, they costing
too much, I went to bed in a discontent. Nothing yet from sea, where my Lord and the Princess are.

18th.  At home all the morning looking over my workmen in my house. After dinner Sir W. Batten,
Pen, and myself by coach to Westminster Hall, where we met Mr. Wayte the lawyer to the Treasurer,
and so we went up to the Committee of Parliament, which are to consider of the debts of the
Army and Navy, and did give in our account of the twenty-five ships. Col. Birch was very impertinent
and troublesome.  But at last we did agree to fit the accounts of our ships more perfectly
for their view within a few days, that they might see what a trouble it is to do what they
desire.  From thence Sir Williams both going by water home, I took Mr. Wayte to the Rhenish
winehouse, and drank with him and so parted. Thence to Mr. Crew's and spoke with Mr. Moore
about the business of paying off Baron our share of the dividend.  So on foot home, by the
way buying a hat band and other things for my mourning to-morrow.  So home and to bed.

19th (Office day).  I put on my mourning and went to the office.  (Noble's "Life of Cromwell," vol. ii.
     pp. 151, 152.) White was born in 1629 and died 1707.]

formerly chaplin to the Lady Protectresse--[Elizabeth, wife of Oliver Cromwell.]--(and still
so, and one they say that is likely to get my Lady Francess for his wife).  Here we were very
merry and had a very good dinner, my wife coming after me hither to us.

Among other pleasures some of us fell to handycapp,

     ["A game at cards not unlike Loo, but with this difference, the
     winner of one trick has to put in a double stake, the winner of two
     tricks a triple stake, and so on.  Thus, if six persons are playing,
     and the general stake is 1s., suppose A gains the three tricks, he
     gains 6s., and has to 'hand i' the cap,' or pool, 4s.  for the next
     deal.  Suppose A gains two tricks and B one, then A gains 4s. and B
     2s., and A has to stake 3s. and B 2s. for the next deal."--Hindley's
     Tavern Anecdotes.--M. B.]

a sport that I never knew before, which was very good.  We staid till it was very late; it
rained sadly, but we made shift to get coaches.  So home and to bed.

20th.  At home, and at the office, and in the garden walking with both Sir Williams all the
morning.  After dinner to Whitehall to Mr. Dalton, and with him to my house and took away all
my papers that were left in my closet, and so I have now nothing more in the house or to do
with it. We called to speak with my Landlord Beale, but he was not within but spoke with the
old woman, who takes it very ill that I did not let her have it, but I did give her an answer.
From thence to Sir G. Downing and staid late there (he having sent for me to come to him),
which was to tell me how my Lord Sandwich had disappointed him of a ship to bring over his
child and goods, and made great complaint thereof; but I got him to write a letter to Lawson,
which it may be may do the business for him, I writing another also about it.  While he was
writing, and his Lady and I had a great deal of discourse in praise of Holland. So home and to bed.

21st (Office day).  There all the morning and afternoon till 4 o'clock.  I landed at the old
Swan and went to the Hoop Tavern, and (by a former agreement) sent for Mr. Chaplin, who with
Nicholas Osborne and one Daniel came to us and we drank off two or three quarts of wine, which
was very good; the drawing of our wine causing a great quarrel in the house between the two
drawers which should draw us the best, which caused a great deal of noise and falling out till
the master parted them, and came up to us and did give us a large account of the liberty that
he gives his servants, all alike, to draw what wine they will to please his customers; and
we did eat above 200 walnuts. About to o'clock we broke up and so home, and in my way I called
in with them at Mr. Chaplin's, where Nicholas Osborne did give me a barrel of samphire,

     [Samphire was formerly a favourite pickle; hence the "dangerous
     trade" of the samphire gatherer ("King Lear," act iv.  sc. 6) who
     supplied the demand.  It was sold in the streets, and one of the old
     London cries was "I ha' Rock Samphier, Rock Samphier!"]

and showed me the keys of Mardyke Fort,

     [A fort four miles east of Dunkirk, probably dismantled when that
     town was sold to Louis XIV.]

which he that was commander of the fort sent him as a token when the fort was demolished, which
I was mightily pleased to see, and will get them of him if I can.  Home, where I found my boy
(my maid's brother) come out of the country to-day, but was gone to bed and so I could not
see him to-night.  To bed.

22nd.  This morning I called up my boy, and found him a pretty, well-looked boy, and one that
I think will please me.  I went this morning by land to Westminster along with Luellin, who
came to my house this morning to get me to go with him to Capt. Allen to speak with him for
his brother to go with him to Constantinople, but could not find him.  We walked on to Fleet
street, where at Mr. Standing's in Salsbury Court we drank our morning draft and had a pickled
herring.  Among other discourse here he told me how the pretty woman that I always loved at
the beginning of Cheapside that sells child's coats was served by the Lady Bennett (a famous
strumpet), who by counterfeiting to fall into a swoon upon the sight of her in her shop, became
acquainted with her, and at last got her ends of her to lie with a gentleman that had hired
her to procure this poor soul for him.  To Westminster to my Lord's, and there in the house
of office vomited up all my breakfast, my stomach being ill all this day by reason of the last
night's debauch.  Here I sent to Mr. Bowyer's for my chest and put up my books and sent them
home.  I staid here all day in my Lord's chamber and upon the leads gazing upon Diana, who
looked out of a window upon me.  At last I went out to Mr. Harper's, and she standing over
the way at the gate, I went over to her and appointed to meet to-morrow in the afternoon at
my Lord's.  Here I bought a hanging jack. From thence by coach home by the way at the New Exchange

     [In the Strand; built, under the auspices of James I., in 1608, out
     of the stables of Durham House, the site of the present Adelphi.
     The New Exchange stood where Coutts's banking-house now is.  "It was
     built somewhat on the model of the Royal Exchange, with cellars
     beneath, a walk above, and rows of shops over that, filled chiefly
     with milliners, sempstresses, and the like."  It was also called
     "Britain's Burse."  To-day not well of my last night's drinking yet.  I
had the boy up to-night for his sister to teach him to put me to bed, and
I heard him read, which he did pretty well.

23rd (Lord's day).  My wife got up to put on her mourning to-day and to go to Church this morning.
I up and set down my journall for these 5 days past.  This morning came one from my father's
with a black cloth coat, made of my short cloak, to walk up and down in.  To church my wife
and I, with Sir W. Batten, where we heard of Mr. Mills a very good sermon upon these words,
"So run that ye may obtain."  After dinner all alone to Westminster.  At Whitehall I met with
Mr. Pierce and his wife (she newly come forth after childbirth) both in mourning for the Duke
of Gloucester. She went with Mr. Child to Whitehall chapel and Mr. Pierce with me to the Abbey,
where I expected to hear Mr. Baxter or Mr. Rowe preach their farewell sermon, and in Mr. Symons's
pew I sat and heard Mr. Rowe. Before sermon I laughed at the reader, who in his prayer desires
of God that He would imprint his word on the thumbs of our right hands and on the right great
toes of our right feet.  In the midst of the sermon some plaster fell from the top of the Abbey,
that made me and all the rest in our pew afeard, and I wished myself out.  After sermon with
Mr. Pierce to Whitehall, and from thence to my Lord, but Diana did not come according to our
agreement.  So calling at my father's (where my wife had been this afternoon but was gone home)
I went home.  This afternoon, the King having news of the Princess being come to Margate, he
and the Duke of York went down thither in barges to her.

24th (Office day).  From thence to dinner by coach with my wife to my Cozen Scott's, and the
company not being come, I went over the way to the Barber's.  So thither again to dinner, where
was my uncle Fenner and my aunt, my father and mother, and others.  Among the rest my Cozen
Rich. Pepys,

     [Richard Pepys, eldest son of Richard Pepys, Lord Chief Justice of
     Ireland.  He went to Boston, Mass., in 1634, and returned to England
     about 1646.]

their elder brother, whom I had not seen these fourteen years, ever since
he came from New England.  It was strange for us to go a gossiping to her,
she having newly buried her child that she was brought to bed of.  He was knighted after the
     King's return, called to the degree of Serjeant, and created a
     baronet, all in the same year.  In 1668 he ceased to be Recorder,
     and was appointed judge of the Court of Common Pleas.  In 1673 he
     was removed to the King's Bench.  From thence with Sir William to Whitehall
by water (old Mr. Smith with us) intending to speak with Secretary
Nicholas about the augmentation of our salaries, but being forth we went
to the Three Tuns tavern, where we drank awhile, and then came in Col.
Slingsby and another gentleman and sat with us.  From thence to my Lord's
to enquire whether they have had any thing from my Lord or no.  Knocking
at the door, there passed me Mons. L'Impertinent [Mr. Butler] for whom I
took a coach and went with him to a dancing meeting in Broad Street, at
the house that was formerly the glass-house, Luke Channel, Master of the
School, where I saw good dancing, but it growing late, and the room very
full of people and so very hot, I went home.

25th.  To the office, where Sir W. Batten, Colonel Slingsby, and I sat awhile, and Sir R. Ford

     [Sir Richard Ford was one of the commissioners sent to Breda to
     desire Charles II.  to return to England immediately.]

coming to us about some business, we talked together of the interest of
this kingdom to have a peace with Spain and a war with France and Holland;
where Sir R. Ford talked like a man of great reason and experience.  "Coffee, chocolate, and a kind of drink called
     tee, sold in almost every street in 1659."--Rugge's Diurnal.  It is
     stated in "Boyne's Trade Tokens," ed. Williamson, vol. i., 1889,
     p. 593 "that the word tea occurs on no other tokens than those
     issued from 'the Great Turk' (Morat ye Great) coffeehouse in
     Exchange Alley.  The Dutch East India Company introduced tea into
     Europe in 1610, and it is said to have been first imported into
     England from Holland about 1650.  The English "East India Company"
     purchased and presented 2 lbs. of tea to Charles II. in 1660, and 23
     lbs. in 1666.  The first order for its importation by the company
     was in 1668, and the first consignment of it, amounting to 143 lbs.,
     was received from Bantam in 1669 (see Sir George Birdwood's "Report
     on the Old Records at the India Office," 1890, p. 26).  By act 12
     Car.  II., capp.  23, 24, a duty of 8d. per gallon was imposed upon
     the infusion of tea, as well as on chocolate and sherbet.]

(a China drink) of which I never had drank before, and went away.  Then came Col. Birch and
Sir R. Browne by a former appointment, and with them from Tower wharf in the barge belonging
to our office we went to Deptford to pay off the ship Success, which (Sir G. Carteret and Sir
W. Pen coming afterwards to us) we did, Col. Birch being a mighty busy man and one that is
the most indefatigable and forward to make himself work of any man that ever I knew in my life.
At the Globe we had a very good dinner, and after that to the pay again, which being finished
we returned by water again, and I from our office with Col. Slingsby by coach to Westminster
(I setting him down at his lodgings by the way) to inquire for my Lord's coming thither (the
King and the Princess

     ["The Princess Royall came from Gravesend to Whitehall by water,
     attended by a noble retinue of about one hundred persons, gentry,
     and servants, and tradesmen, and tirewomen, and others, that took
     that opportunity to advance their fortunes, by coming in with so
     excellent a Princess as without question she is."-Rugge's Diurnal.
     A broadside, entitled "Ourania, the High and Mighty Lady the
     Princess Royal of Aurange, congratulated on her most happy arrival,
     September the 25th, 1660," was printed on the 29th.]

coming up the river this afternoon as we were at our pay), and I found him gone to Mr. Crew's,
where I found him well, only had got some corns upon his foot which was not well yet.  My Lord
told me how the ship that brought the Princess and him (The Tredagh) did knock six times upon
the Kentish Knock,

     [A shoal in the North Sea, off the Thames mouth, outside the Long
     Sand, fifteen miles N.N.E. of the North Foreland.  It measures seven
     miles north-eastward, and about two miles in breadth.  It is partly
     dry at low water.  From him late and by coach home, where the plasterers being at
work in all the rooms in my house, my wife was fain to make a bed upon the
ground for her and me, and so there we lay all night.

26th.  Office day.  That done to the church, to consult about our gallery. So home to dinner,
where I found Mrs. Hunt, who brought me a letter for me to get my Lord to sign for her husband,
which I shall do for her.  At home with the workmen all the afternoon, our house being in a
most sad pickle. In the evening to the office, where I fell a-reading of Speed's Geography
for a while.  So home thinking to have found Will at home, but he not being come home but gone
somewhere else I was very angry, and when he came did give him a very great check for it, and
so I went to bed.

27th.  To my Lord at Mr. Crew's, and there took order about some business of his, and from
thence home to my workmen all the afternoon.  In the evening to my Lord's, and there did read
over with him and Dr. Walker my lord's new commission for sea, and advised thereupon how to
have it drawn. So home and to bed.

28th (Office day).  This morning Sir W. Batten and Col. Slingsby went with Col. Birch and Sir
Wm. Doyly to Chatham to pay off a ship there.  So only Sir W. Pen and I left here in town.
All the afternoon among my workmen till 10 or 11 at night, and did give them drink and very
merry with them, it being my luck to meet with a sort of drolling workmen on all occasions. To bed.

29th.  All day at home to make an end of our dirty work of the plasterers, and indeed my kitchen
is now so handsome that I did not repent of all the trouble that I have been put to, to have
it done.  This day or yesterday, I hear, Prince Rupert

     [This is the first mention in the Diary of this famous prince, third
     son of Frederick, Prince Palatine of the Rhine, and Elizabeth,
     daughter of James I., born December 17th, 1619.  He died at his
     house in Spring Gardens, November 29th, 1682.]

is come to Court; but welcome to nobody.

30th (Lord's day).  To our Parish church both forenoon and afternoon all alone.  At night went
to bed without prayers, my house being every where foul above stairs.

