If we look about the periphery of the nation, everywhere we see the indications that our world
is changing. On the streets of Northeastern cities like New York and Boston, the faces which
we meet are to a surprising extent those of Southeastern Europe. Puritan New England, which
turned its capital into factories and mills and drew to its shores an army of cheap labor,
governed these people for a time by a ruling class like an upper stratum between which and
the lower strata there was no assimilation. There was no such evolution into an assimilated
commonwealth as is seen in Middle Western agricultural States, where immigrant and old native
stock came in together and built up a homogeneous society on the principle of give and take.
But now the Northeastern coast finds its destiny, politically and economically, passing away
from the descendants of the Puritans. It is the little Jewish boy, the Greek or the Sicilian,
who takes the traveler through historic streets, now the home of these newer people to the
Old North Church or to Paul Revere's house, or to Tea Wharf, and tells you in his strange patois
the story of revolution against oppression.

Along the Southern Atlantic and the Gulf coast, in spite of the preservative influence of the
negro, whose presence has always called out resistance to change on the part of the whites,
the forces of social and industrial transformation are at work. The old tidewater aristocracy
has surrendered to the up-country democrats. Along the line of the Alleghanies like an advancing
column, the forces of Northern capital, textile and steel mills, year after year extend their
invasion into the lower South. New Orleans, once the mistress of the commerce of the Mississippi
Valley, is awakening to new dreams of world commerce. On the southern border, similar invasions
of American capital have been entering Mexico. At the same time, the opening of the Panama
Canal has completed the dream of the ages of the Straits of Anian between Atlantic and Pacific.
Four hundred years ago, Balboa raised the flag of Spain at the edge of the Sea of the West
and we are now preparing to celebrate both that anniversary, and the piercing of the continent.
New relations have been created between Spanish America and the United States and the world
is watching the mediation of Argentina, Brazil and Chile between the contending forces of Mexico
and the Union. Once more alien national interests lie threatening at our borders, but we no
longer appeal to the Monroe Doctrine and send our armies of frontiersmen to settle our concerns
off-hand. We take council with European nations and with the sisterhood of South America, and
propose a remedy of social reorganization in place of imperious will and force. Whether the
effort will succeed or not, it is a significant indication that an old order is passing away,
when such a solution is undertaken by a President of Scotch Presbyterian stock, born in the
State of Virginia.

If we turn to the Northern border, where we are about to celebrate a century of peace with
England, we see in progress, like a belated procession of our own history the spread of pioneers,
the opening of new wildernesses, the building of new cities, the growth of a new and mighty
nation. That old American advance of the wheat farmer from the Connecticut to the Mohawk, and
the Genesee, from the Great Valley of Pennsylvania to the Ohio Valley and the prairies of the
Middle West, is now by its own momentum and under the stimulus of Canadian homesteads and the
high price of wheat, carried across the national border to the once lone plains where the Hudson
Bay dog trains crossed the desolate snows of the wild North Land. In the Pacific Northwest
the era of construction has not ended, but it is so rapidly in progress that we can already
see the closing of the age of the pioneer. Already Alaska beckons on the north, and pointing
to her wealth of natural resources asks the nation on what new terms the new age will deal
with her. Across the Pacific looms Asia, no longer a remote vision and a symbol of the unchanging,
but borne as by mirage close to our shores and raising grave questions of the common destiny
of the people of the ocean. The dreams of Benton and of Seward of a regenerated Orient, when
the long march of westward civilization should complete its circle, seem almost to be in process
of realization. The age of the Pacific Ocean begins, mysterious and unfathomable in its meaning
for our own future.

Turning to view the interior, we see the same picture of change. When the Superintendent of
the Census in 1890 declared the frontier line no longer traceable, the beginning of the rush
into Oklahoma had just occurred. Here where the broken fragments of Indian nations from the
East had been gathered and where the wilder tribes of the Southwest were being settled, came
the rush of the land-hungry pioneer. Almost at a blow the old Indian territory passed away,
populous cities came into being and it was not long before gushing oil wells made a new era
of sudden wealth. The farm lands of the Middle West taken as free homesteads or bought for
a mere pittance, have risen so in value that the original owners have in an increasing degree
either sold them in order to reinvest in the newer cheap lands of the West, or have moved into
the town and have left the tillage to tenant farmers. The growth of absentee ownership of the
soil is producing a serious problem in the former centers of the Granger and the Populist.
Along the Old Northwest the Great Lakes are becoming a new Mediterranean Sea joining the realms
of wheat and iron ore, at one end with the coal and furnaces of the forks of the Ohio, where
the most intense and wide-reaching center of industrial energy exists. City life like that
of the East, manufactures and accumulated capital, seem to be reproducing in the center of
the Republic the tendencies already so plain on the Atlantic Coast.

Across the Great Plains where buffalo and Indian held sway successive industrial waves are
passing. The old free range gave place to the ranch, the ranch to the homestead and now in
places in the arid lands the homestead is replaced by the ten or twenty acre irrigated fruit
farm. The age of cheap land, cheap corn and wheat, and cheap cattle has gone forever. The federal
government has undertaken vast paternal enterprises of reclamation of the desert.

In the Rocky Mountains where at the time of Civil War, the first important rushes to gold and
silver mines carried the frontier backward on a march toward the east, the most amazing transformations
have occurred. Here, where prospectors made new trails, and lived the wild free life of mountain
men, here where the human spirit seemed likely to attain the largest measure of individual
freedom, and where fortune beckoned to the common man, have come revolutions wrought by the
demand for organized industry and capital. In the regions where the popular tribunal and the
free competitive life flourished, we have seen law and order break down in the unmitigated
collision of great aggregations of capital, with each other and with organized socialistic
labor. The Cripple Creek strikes, the contests at Butte, the Goldfield mobs, the recent Colorado
fighting, all tell a similar story,--the solid impact of contending forces in regions where
civic power and loyalty to the State have never fully developed. Like the Grand Cañon, where
in dazzling light the huge geologic history is written so large that none may fail to read
it, so in the Rocky Mountains the dangers of modern American industrial tendencies have been
exposed.

