A HAZARD OF NEW FORTUNES

By William Dean Howells

PART SECOND

I.

The evening when March closed with Mrs. Green's reduced offer, and decided to take her apartment,
the widow whose lodgings he had rejected sat with her daughter in an upper room at the back
of her house. In the shaded glow of the drop-light she was sewing, and the girl was drawing
at the same table. From time to time, as they talked, the girl lifted her head and tilted it
a little on one side so as to get some desired effect of her work.

"It's a mercy the cold weather holds off," said the mother. "We should have to light the furnace,
unless we wanted to scare everybody away with a cold house; and I don't know who would take
care of it, or what would become of us, every way."

"They seem to have been scared away from a house that wasn't cold," said the girl. "Perhaps
they might like a cold one. But it's too early for cold yet. It's only just in the beginning
of November."

"The Messenger says they've had a sprinkling of snow."

"Oh yes, at St. Barnaby! I don't know when they don't have sprinklings of snow there. I'm awfully
glad we haven't got that winter before us."

The widow sighed as mothers do who feel the contrast their experience opposes to the hopeful
recklessness of such talk as this. "We may have a worse winter here," she said, darkly.

"Then I couldn't stand it," said the girl, "and I should go in for lighting out to Florida
double-quick."

"And how would you get to Florida?" demanded her mother, severely.

"Oh, by the usual conveyance Pullman vestibuled train, I suppose. What makes you so blue, mamma?"
The girl was all the time sketching away, rubbing out, lifting her head for the effect, and
then bending it over her work again without looking at her mother.

"I am not blue, Alma. But I cannot endure this--this hopefulness of yours."

"Why? What harm does it do?"

"Harm?" echoed the mother.

Pending the effort she must make in saying, the girl cut in: "Yes, harm. You've kept your despair
dusted off and ready for use at an instant's notice ever since we came, and what good has it
done? I'm going to keep on hoping to the bitter end. That's what papa did."

It was what the Rev. Archibald Leighton had done with all the consumptive's buoyancy. The morning
he died he told them that now he had turned the point and was really going to get well. The
cheerfulness was not only in his disease, but in his temperament. Its excess was always a little
against him in his church work, and Mrs. Leighton was right enough in feeling that if it had
not been for the ballast of her instinctive despondency he would have made shipwreck of such
small chances of prosperity as befell him in life. It was not from him that his daughter got
her talent, though he had left her his temperament intact of his widow's legal thirds. He was
one of those men of whom the country people say when he is gone that the woman gets along better
without him. Mrs. Leighton had long eked out their income by taking a summer boarder or two,
as a great favor, into her family; and when the greater need came, she frankly gave up her
house to the summer-folks (as they call them in the country), and managed it for their comfort
from the small quarter of it in which she shut herself up with her daughter.

The notion of shutting up is an exigency of the rounded period. The fact is, of course, that
Alma Leighton was not shut up in any sense whatever. She was the pervading light, if not force,
of the house. She was a good cook, and she managed the kitchen with the help of an Irish girl,
while her mother looked after the rest of the housekeeping. But she was not systematic; she
had inspiration but not discipline, and her mother mourned more over the days when Alma left
the whole dinner to the Irish girl than she rejoiced in those when one of Alma's great thoughts
took form in a chicken-pie of incomparable savor or in a matchless pudding. The off-days came
when her artistic nature was expressing itself in charcoal, for she drew to the admiration
of all among the lady boarders who could not draw. The others had their reserves; they readily
conceded that Alma had genius, but they were sure she needed instruction. On the other hand,
they were not so radical as to agree with the old painter who came every summer to paint the
elms of the St. Barnaby meadows. He contended that she needed to be a man in order to amount
to anything; but in this theory he was opposed by an authority, of his own sex, whom the lady
sketchers believed to speak with more impartiality in a matter concerning them as much as Alma
Leighton. He said that instruction would do, and he was not only, younger and handsomer, but
he was fresher from the schools than old Harrington, who, even the lady sketchers could see,
painted in an obsolescent manner. His name was Beaton--Angus Beaton; but he was not Scotch,
or not more Scotch than Mary Queen of Scots was. His father was a Scotchman, but Beaton was
born in Syracuse, New York, and it had taken only three years in Paris to obliterate many traces
of native and ancestral manner in him. One of the ladies said that you always thought of him
as having spoken French after it was over, and accused herself of wrong in not being able to
feel afraid of him. None of the ladies was afraid of him, though they could not believe that
he was really so deferential to their work as he seemed; and they knew, when he would not criticise
Mr. Harrington's work, that he was just acting from principle.

They may or may not have known the deference with which he treated Alma's work; but the girl
herself felt that his abrupt, impersonal comment recognized her as a real sister in art. He
told her she ought to come to New York, and draw in the League, or get into some painter's
private class; and it was the sense of duty thus appealed to which finally resulted in the
hazardous experiment she and her mother were now making. There were no logical breaks in the
chain of their reasoning from past success with boarders in St. Barnaby to future success with
boarders in New York. Of course the outlay was much greater. The rent of the furnished house
they had taken was such that if they failed their experiment would be little less than ruinous.

But they were not going to fail; that was what Alma contended, with a hardy courage that her
mother sometimes felt almost invited failure, if it did not deserve it. She was one of those
people who believe that if you dread harm enough it is less likely to happen. She acted on
this superstition as if it were a religion.

"If it had not been for my despair, as you call it, Alma," she answered, "I don't know where
we should have been now."

"I suppose we should have been in St. Barnaby," said the girl. "And if it's worse to be in
New York, you see what your despair's done, mamma. But what's the use? You meant well, and
I don't blame you. You can't expect even despair to come out always just the way you want it.
Perhaps you've used too much of it." The girl laughed, and Mrs. Leighton laughed, too. Like
every one else, she was not merely a prevailing mood, as people are apt to be in books, but
was an irregularly spheroidal character, with surfaces that caught the different lights of
circumstance and reflected them. Alma got up and took a pose before the mirror, which she then
transferred to her sketch. The room was pinned about with other sketches, which showed with
fantastic indistinctness in the shaded gaslight. Alma held up the drawing. "How do you like it?"

Mrs. Leighton bent forward over her sewing to look at it. "You've got the man's face rather weak."

"Yes, that's so. Either I see all the hidden weakness that's in men's natures, and bring it
to the surface in their figures, or else I put my own weakness into them. Either way, it's
a drawback to their presenting a truly manly appearance. As long as I have one of the miserable
objects before me, I can draw him; but as soon as his back's turned I get to putting ladies
into men's clothes. I should think you'd be scandalized, mamma, if you were a really feminine
person. It must be your despair that helps you to bear up. But what's the matter with the young
lady in young lady's clothes? Any dust on her?"

"What expressions!" said Mrs. Leighton. "Really, Alma, for a refined girl you are the most
unrefined!"

"Go on--about the girl in the picture!" said Alma, slightly knocking her mother on the shoulder,
as she stood over her.

"I don't see anything to her. What's she doing?"

"Oh, just being made love to, I suppose."

"She's perfectly insipid!"

"You're awfully articulate, mamma! Now, if Mr. Wetmore were to criticise that picture he'd
draw a circle round it in the air, and look at it through that, and tilt his head first on
one side and then on the other, and then look at you, as if you were a figure in it, and then
collapse awhile, and moan a little and gasp, 'Isn't your young lady a little too-too--' and
then he'd try to get the word out of you, and groan and suffer some more; and you'd say, 'She
is, rather,' and that would give him courage, and he'd say, 'I don't mean that she's so very--'
'Of course not.' 'You understand?' 'Perfectly. I see it myself, now.' 'Well, then'---and he'd
take your pencil and begin to draw--'I should give her a little more--Ah?' 'Yes, I see the
difference.'--'You see the difference?' And he'd go off to some one else, and you'd know that
you'd been doing the wishy-washiest thing in the world, though he hadn't spoken a word of criticism,
and couldn't. But he wouldn't have noticed the expression at all; he'd have shown you where
your drawing was bad. He doesn't care for what he calls the literature of a thing; he says
that will take care of itself if the drawing's good. He doesn't like my doing these chic things;
but I'm going to keep it up, for I think it's the nearest way to illustrating."

She took her sketch and pinned it up on the door.

"And has Mr. Beaton been about, yet?" asked her mother.

"No," said the girl, with her back still turned; and she added, "I believe he's in New York;
Mr. Wetmore's seen him."

"It's a little strange he doesn't call."

"It would be if he were not an artist. But artists never do anything like other people. He
was on his good behavior while he was with us, and he's a great deal more conventional than
most of them; but even he can't keep it up. That's what makes me really think that women can
never amount to anything in art. They keep all their appointments, and fulfil all their duties
just as if they didn't know anything about art. Well, most of them don't. We've got that new
model to-day."

"What new model?"

"The one Mr. Wetmore was telling us about the old German; he's splendid. He's got the most
beautiful head; just like the old masters' things. He used to be Humphrey Williams's model
for his Biblical-pieces; but since he's dead, the old man hardly gets anything to do. Mr. Wetmore
says there isn't anybody in the Bible that Williams didn't paint him as. He's the Law and the
Prophets in all his Old Testament pictures, and he's Joseph, Peter, Judas Iscariot, and the
Scribes and Pharisees in the New."

"It's a good thing people don't know how artists work, or some of the most sacred pictures
would have no influence," said Mrs. Leighton.

"Why, of course not!" cried the girl. "And the influence is the last thing a painter thinks
of--or supposes he thinks of. What he knows he's anxious about is the drawing and the color.
But people will never understand how simple artists are. When I reflect what a complex and
sophisticated being I am, I'm afraid I can never come to anything in art. Or I should be if
I hadn't genius."

"Do you think Mr. Beaton is very simple?" asked Mrs. Leighton.

"Mr. Wetmore doesn't think he's very much of an artist. He thinks he talks too well. They believe
that if a man can express himself clearly he can't paint."

"And what do you believe?"

"Oh, I can express myself, too."

The mother seemed to be satisfied with this evasion. After a while she said, "I presume he
will call when he gets settled."

The girl made no answer to this. "One of the girls says that old model is an educated man.
He was in the war, and lost a hand. Doesn't it seem a pity for such a man to have to sit to
a class of affected geese like us as a model? I declare it makes me sick. And we shall keep
him a week, and pay him six or seven dollars for the use of his grand old head, and then what
will he do? The last time he was regularly employed was when Mr. Mace was working at his Damascus
Massacre. Then he wanted so many Arab sheiks and Christian elders that he kept old Mr. Lindau
steadily employed for six months. Now he has to pick up odd jobs where he can."

"I suppose he has his pension," said Mrs. Leighton.

"No; one of the girls"--that was the way Alma always described her fellow-students--"says he
has no pension. He didn't apply for it for a long time, and then there was a hitch about it,
and it was somethinged--vetoed, I believe she said."

"Who vetoed it?" asked Mrs. Leighton, with some curiosity about the process, which she held
in reserve.

"I don't know-whoever vetoes things. I wonder what Mr. Wetmore does think of us--his class.
We must seem perfectly crazy. There isn't one of us really knows what she's doing it for, or
what she expects to happen when she's done it. I suppose every one thinks she has genius. I
know the Nebraska widow does, for she says that unless you have genius it isn't the least use.
Everybody's puzzled to know what she does with her baby when she's at work--whether she gives
it soothing syrup. I wonder how Mr. Wetmore can keep from laughing in our faces. I know he
does behind our backs."

Mrs. Leighton's mind wandered back to another point. "Then if he says Mr. Beaton can't paint,
I presume he doesn't respect him very much."

"Oh, he never said he couldn't paint. But I know he thinks so. He says he's an excellent critic."

"Alma," her mother said, with the effect of breaking off, "what do you suppose is the reason
he hasn't been near us?"

"Why, I don't know, mamma, except that it would have been natural for another person to come,
and he's an artist at least, artist enough for that."

"That doesn't account for it altogether. He was very nice at St. Barnaby, and seemed so interested
in you--your work."

"Plenty of people were nice at St. Barnaby. That rich Mrs. Horn couldn't contain her joy when
she heard we were coming to New York, but she hasn't poured in upon us a great deal since we
got here."

"But that's different. She's very fashionable, and she's taken up with her own set. But Mr.
Beaton's one of our kind."

"Thank you. Papa wasn't quite a tombstone-cutter, mamma."

"That makes it all the harder to bear. He can't be ashamed of us. Perhaps he doesn't know where
we are."

"Do you wish to send him your card, mamma?" The girl flushed and towered in scorn of the idea.

"Why, no, Alma," returned her mother.

"Well, then," said Alma.

But Mrs. Leighton was not so easily quelled. She had got her mind on Mr. Beaton, and she could
not detach it at once. Besides, she was one of those women (they are commoner than the same
sort of men) whom it does not pain to take out their most intimate thoughts and examine them
in the light of other people's opinions. "But I don't see how he can behave so. He must know
that--"

"That what, mamma?" demanded the girl.

"That he influenced us a great deal in coming--"

"He didn't. If he dared to presume to think such a thing--"

"Now, Alma," said her mother, with the clinging persistence of such natures, "you know he did.
And it's no use for you to pretend that we didn't count upon him in--in every way. You may
not have noticed his attentions, and I don't say you did, but others certainly did; and I must
say that I didn't expect he would drop us so."

"Drop us!" cried Alma, in a fury. "Oh!"

"Yes, drop us, Alma. He must know where we are. Of course, Mr. Wetmore's spoken to him about
you, and it's a shame that he hasn't been near us. I should have thought common gratitude,
common decency, would have brought him after--after all we did for him."

"We did nothing for him--nothing! He paid his board, and that ended it."

"No, it didn't, Alma. You know what he used to say--about its being like home, and all that;
and I must say that after his attentions to you, and all the things you told me he said, I
expected something very dif--"

A sharp peal of the door-bell thrilled through the house, and as if the pull of the bell-wire
had twitched her to her feet, Mrs. Leighton sprang up and grappled with her daughter in their
common terror.

They both glared at the clock and made sure that it was five minutes after nine. Then they
abandoned themselves some moments to the unrestricted play of their apprehensions.

II.

"Why, Alma," whispered the mother, "who in the world can it be at this time of night? You don't
suppose he--"

"Well, I'm not going to the door, anyhow, mother, I don't care who it is; and, of course, he
wouldn't be such a goose as to come at this hour." She put on a look of miserable trepidation,
and shrank back from the door, while the hum of the bell died away, in the hall.

"What shall we do?" asked Mrs. Leighton, helplessly.

"Let him go away--whoever they are," said Alma.

Another and more peremptory ring forbade them refuge in this simple expedient.

"Oh, dear! what shall we do? Perhaps it's a despatch."

The conjecture moved Alma to no more than a rigid stare. "I shall not go," she said. A third
ring more insistent than the others followed, and she said: "You go ahead, mamma, and I'll
come behind to scream if it's anybody. We can look through the side-lights at the door first."

Mrs. Leighton fearfully led the way from the back chamber where they bad been sitting, and
slowly descended the stairs. Alma came behind and turned up the hall gas-jet with a sudden
flash that made them both jump a little. The gas inside rendered it more difficult to tell
who was on the threshold, but Mrs. Leighton decided from a timorous peep through the scrims
that it was a lady and gentleman. Something in this distribution of sex emboldened her; she
took her life in her hand, and opened the door.

The lady spoke. "Does Mrs. Leighton live heah?" she said, in a rich, throaty voice; and she
feigned a reference to the agent's permit she held in her hand.

"Yes," said Mrs. Leighton; she mechanically occupied the doorway, while Alma already quivered
behind her with impatience of her impoliteness.

"Oh," said the lady, who began to appear more and more a young lady, "Ah didn't know but Ah
had mistaken the hoase. Ah suppose it's rather late to see the apawtments, and Ah most ask
you to pawdon us." She put this tentatively, with a delicately growing recognition of Mrs.
Leighton as the lady of the house, and a humorous intelligence of the situation in the glance
she threw Alma over her mother's shoulder. "Ah'm afraid we most have frightened you."

"Oh, not at all," said Alma; and at the same time her mother said, "Will you walk in, please?"

The gentleman promptly removed his hat and made the Leightons an inclusive bow. "You awe very
kind, madam, and I am sorry for the trouble we awe giving you." He was tall and severe-looking,
with a gray, trooperish mustache and iron-gray hair, and, as Alma decided, iron-gray eyes.
His daughter was short, plump, and fresh-colored, with an effect of liveliness that did not
all express itself in her broad-vowelled, rather formal speech, with its odd valuations of
some of the auxiliary verbs, and its total elision of the canine letter.

"We awe from the Soath," she said, "and we arrived this mawning, but we got this cyahd from
the brokah just befo' dinnah, and so we awe rathah late."

"Not at all; it's only nine o'clock," said Mrs. Leighton. She looked up from the card the young
lady had given her, and explained, "We haven't got in our servants yet, and we had to answer
the bell ourselves, and--"

"You were frightened, of coase," said the young lady, caressingly.

The gentleman said they ought not to have come so late, and he offered some formal apologies.

"We should have been just as much scared any time after five o'clock," Alma said to the sympathetic
intelligence in the girl's face.

She laughed out. "Of coase! Ah would have my hawt in my moath all day long, too, if Ah was
living in a big hoase alone."

A moment of stiffness followed; Mrs. Leighton would have liked to withdraw from the intimacy
of the situation, but she did not know how. It was very well for these people to assume to
be what they pretended; but, she reflected too late, she had no proof of it except the agent's
permit. They were all standing in the hall together, and she prolonged the awkward pause while
she examined the permit. "You are Mr. Woodburn?" she asked, in a way that Alma felt implied
he might not be.

"Yes, madam; from Charlottesboag, Virginia," he answered, with the slight umbrage a man shows
when the strange cashier turns his check over and questions him before cashing it.

Alma writhed internally, but outwardly remained subordinate; she examined the other girl's
dress, and decided in a superficial consciousness that she had made her own bonnet.

"I shall be glad to show you my rooms," said Mrs. Leighton, with an irrelevant sigh. "You must
excuse their being not just as I should wish them. We're hardly settled yet."

"Don't speak of it, madam," said the gentleman, "if you can overlook the trouble we awe giving
you at such an unseasonable houah."

"Ah'm a hoasekeepah mahself," Miss Woodburn joined in, "and Ah know ho' to accyoant fo' everything."

Mrs. Leighton led the way up-stairs, and the young lady decided upon the large front room and
small side room on the third story. She said she could take the small one, and the other was
so large that her father could both sleep and work in it. She seemed not ashamed to ask if
Mrs. Leighton's price was inflexible, but gave way laughing when her father refused to have
any bargaining, with a haughty self-respect which he softened to deference for Mrs. Leighton.
His impulsiveness opened the way for some confidence from her, and before the affair was arranged
she was enjoying in her quality of clerical widow the balm of the Virginians' reverent sympathy.
They said they were church people themselves.

"Ah don't know what yo' mothah means by yo' hoase not being in oddah," the young lady said
to Alma as they went down-stairs together. "Ah'm a great hoasekeepah mahself, and Ah mean what
Ah say."

They had all turned mechanically into the room where the Leightons were sitting when the Woodburns
rang: Mr. Woodburn consented to sit down, and he remained listening to Mrs. Leighton while
his daughter bustled up to the sketches pinned round the room and questioned Alma about them.

"Ah suppose you awe going to be a great awtust?" she said, in friendly banter, when Alma owned
to having done the things. "Ah've a great notion to take a few lessons mahself. Who's yo' teachah?"

Alma said she was drawing in Mr. Wetmore's class, and Miss Woodburn said: "Well, it's just
beautiful, Miss Leighton; it's grand. Ah suppose it's raght expensive, now? Mah goodness! we
have to cyoant the coast so much nowadays; it seems to me we do nothing but cyoant it. Ah'd
like to hah something once without askin' the price."

"Well, if you didn't ask it," said Alma, "I don't believe Mr. Wetmore would ever know what
the price of his lessons was. He has to think, when you ask him."

"Why, he most be chomming," said Miss Woodburn. "Perhaps Ah maght get the lessons for nothing
from him. Well, Ah believe in my soul Ah'll trah. Now ho' did you begin? and ho' do you expect
to get anything oat of it?" She turned on Alma eyes brimming with a shrewd mixture of fun and
earnest, and Alma made note of the fact that she had an early nineteenth-century face, round,
arch, a little coquettish, but extremely sensible and unspoiled-looking, such as used to be
painted a good deal in miniature at that period; a tendency of her brown hair to twine and
twist at the temples helped the effect; a high comb would have completed it, Alma felt, if
she had her bonnet off. It was almost a Yankee country-girl type; but perhaps it appeared so
to Alma because it was, like that, pure Anglo-Saxon. Alma herself, with her dull, dark skin,
slender in figure, slow in speech, with aristocratic forms in her long hands, and the oval
of her fine face pointed to a long chin, felt herself much more Southern in style than this
blooming, bubbling, bustling Virginian.

"I don't know," she answered, slowly.

"Going to take po'traits," suggested Miss Woodburn, "or just paint the ahdeal?" A demure burlesque
lurked in her tone.

"I suppose I don't expect to paint at all," said Alma. "I'm going to illustrate books--if anybody
will let me."

"Ah should think they'd just joamp at you," said Miss Woodburn. "Ah'll tell you what let's
do, Miss Leighton: you make some pictures, and Ah'll wrahte a book fo' them. Ah've got to do
something. Ali maght as well wrahte a book. You know we Southerners have all had to go to woak.
But Ah don't mand it. I tell papa I shouldn't ca' fo' the disgrace of bein' poo' if it wasn't
fo' the inconvenience."

"Yes, it's inconvenient," said Alma; "but you forget it when you're at work, don't you think?"

"Mah, yes! Perhaps that's one reason why poo' people have to woak so hawd-to keep their wands
off their poverty."

The girls both tittered, and turned from talking in a low tone with their backs toward their
elders, and faced them.

"Well, Madison," said Mr. Woodburn, "it is time we should go. I bid you good-night, madam,"
he bowed to Mrs. Leighton. "Good-night," he bowed again to Alma.

His daughter took leave of them in formal phrase, but with a jolly cordiality of manner that
deformalized it. "We shall be roand raght soon in the mawning, then," she threatened at the door.

"We shall be all ready for you," Alma called after her down the steps.

"Well, Alma?" her mother asked, when the door closed upon them.

"She doesn't know any more about art," said Alma, "than--nothing at all. But she's jolly and
good-hearted. She praised everything that was bad in my sketches, and said she was going to
take lessons herself. When a person talks about taking lessons, as if they could learn it,
you know where they belong artistically."

Mrs. Leighton shook her head with a sigh. "I wish I knew where they belonged financially. We
shall have to get in two girls at once. I shall have to go out the first thing in the morning,
and then our troubles will begin."

"Well, didn't you want them to begin? I will stay home and help you get ready. Our prosperity
couldn't begin without the troubles, if you mean boarders, and boarders mean servants. I shall
be very glad to be afflicted with a cook for a while myself."

"Yes; but we don't know anything about these people, or whether they will be able to pay us.
Did she talk as if they were well off?"

"She talked as if they were poor; poo' she called it."

"Yes, how queerly she pronounced," said Mrs. Leighton. "Well, I ought to have told them that
I required the first week in advance."

"Mamma! If that's the way you're going to act!"

"Oh, of course, I couldn't, after he wouldn't let her bargain for the rooms. I didn't like that."

"I did. And you can see that they were perfect ladies; or at least one of them." Alma laughed
at herself, but her mother did not notice.

"Their being ladies won't help if they've got no money. It 'll make it all the worse."

"Very well, then; we have no money, either. We're a match for them any day there. We can show
them that two can play at that game."

III.

Arnus Beaton's studio looked at first glance like many other painters' studios. A gray wall
quadrangularly vaulted to a large north light; casts of feet, hands, faces hung to nails about;
prints, sketches in oil and water-color stuck here and there lower down; a rickety table, with
paint and palettes and bottles of varnish and siccative tossed comfortlessly on it; an easel,
with a strip of some faded mediaeval silk trailing from it; a lay figure simpering in incomplete
nakedness, with its head on one side, and a stocking on one leg, and a Japanese dress dropped
before it; dusty rugs and skins kicking over the varnished floor; canvases faced to the mop-board;
an open trunk overflowing with costumes: these features one might notice anywhere. But, besides,
there was a bookcase with an unusual number of books in it, and there was an open colonial
writing-desk, claw-footed, brass-handled, and scutcheoned, with foreign periodicals--French
and English--littering its leaf, and some pages of manuscript scattered among them. Above all,
there was a sculptor's revolving stand, supporting a bust which Beaton was modelling, with
an eye fixed as simultaneously as possible on the clay and on the head of the old man who sat
on the platform beside it.

Few men have been able to get through the world with several gifts to advantage in all; and
most men seem handicapped for the race if they have more than one. But they are apparently
immensely interested as well as distracted by them. When Beaton was writing, he would have
agreed, up to a certain point, with any one who said literature was his proper expression;
but, then, when he was painting, up to a certain point, he would have maintained against the
world that he was a colorist, and supremely a colorist. At the certain point in either art
he was apt to break away in a frenzy of disgust and wreak himself upon some other. In these
moods he sometimes designed elevations of buildings, very striking, very original, very chic,
very everything but habitable. It was in this way that he had tried his hand on sculpture,
which he had at first approached rather slightingly as a mere decorative accessory of architecture.
But it had grown in his respect till he maintained that the accessory business ought to be
all the other way: that temples should be raised to enshrine statues, not statues made to ornament
temples; that was putting the cart before the horse with a vengeance. This was when he had
carried a plastic study so far that the sculptors who saw it said that Beaton might have been
an architect, but would certainly never be a sculptor. At the same time he did some hurried,
nervous things that had a popular charm, and that sold in plaster reproductions, to the profit
of another. Beaton justly despised the popular charm in these, as well as in the paintings
he sold from time to time; he said it was flat burglary to have taken money for them, and he
would have been living almost wholly upon the bounty of the old tombstone-cutter in Syracuse
if it had not been for the syndicate letters which he supplied to Fulkerson for ten dollars a week.

They were very well done, but he hated doing them after the first two or three, and had to
be punched up for them by Fulkerson, who did not cease to prize them, and who never failed
to punch him up. Beaton being what he was, Fulkerson was his creditor as well as patron; and
Fulkerson being what he was, had an enthusiastic patience with the elusive, facile, adaptable,
unpractical nature of Beaton. He was very proud of his art-letters, as he called them; but
then Fulkerson was proud of everything he secured for his syndicate. The fact that he had secured
it gave it value; he felt as if he had written it himself.

One art trod upon another's heels with Beaton. The day before he had rushed upon canvas the
conception of a picture which he said to himself was glorious, and to others (at the table
d'hote of Maroni) was not bad. He had worked at it in a fury till the light failed him, and
he execrated the dying day. But he lit his lamp and transferred the process of his thinking
from the canvas to the opening of the syndicate letter which he knew Fulkerson would be coming
for in the morning. He remained talking so long after dinner in the same strain as he had painted
and written in that he could not finish his letter that night. The next morning, while he was
making his tea for breakfast, the postman brought him a letter from his father enclosing a
little check, and begging him with tender, almost deferential, urgence to come as lightly upon
him as possible, for just now his expenses were very heavy. It brought tears of shame into
Beaton's eyes--the fine, smouldering, floating eyes that many ladies admired, under the thick
bang--and he said to himself that if he were half a man he would go home and go to work cutting
gravestones in his father's shop. But he would wait, at least, to finish his picture; and as
a sop to his conscience, to stay its immediate ravening, he resolved to finish that syndicate
letter first, and borrow enough money from Fulkerson to be able to send his father's check
back; or, if not that, then to return the sum of it partly in Fulkerson's check. While he still
teemed with both of these good intentions the old man from whom he was modelling his head of
Judas came, and Beaton saw that he must get through with him before he finished either the
picture or the letter; he would have to pay him for the time, anyway. He utilized the remorse
with which he was tingling to give his Judas an expression which he found novel in the treatment
of that character--a look of such touching, appealing self-abhorrence that Beaton's artistic
joy in it amounted to rapture; between the breathless moments when he worked in dead silence
for an effect that was trying to escape him, he sang and whistled fragments of comic opera.

In one of the hushes there came a blow on the outside of the door that made Beaton jump, and
swear with a modified profanity that merged itself in apostrophic prayer. He knew it must be
Fulkerson, and after roaring "Come in!" he said to the model, "That 'll do this morning, Lindau."

Fulkerson squared his feet in front of the bust and compared it by fleeting glances with the
old man as he got stiffly up and suffered Beaton to help him on with his thin, shabby overcoat.

"Can you come to-morrow, Lindau?"

"No, not to-morrow, Mr. Peaton. I haf to zit for the young ladties."

"Oh!" said Beaton. "Wet-more's class? Is Miss Leighton doing you?"

"I don't know their namess," Lindau began, when Fulkerson said:

"Hope you haven't forgotten mine, Mr. Lindau? I met you with Mr. March at Maroni's one night."
Fulkerson offered him a universally shakable hand.

"Oh yes! I am gladt to zee you again, Mr. Vulkerson. And Mr. Marge--he don't zeem to gome any
more?"

"Up to his eyes in work. Been moving on from Boston and getting settled, and starting in on
our enterprise. Beaton here hasn't got a very flattering likeness of you, hey? Well, good-morning,"
he said, for Lindau appeared not to have heard him and was escaping with a bow through the door.

Beaton lit a cigarette which he pinched nervously between his lips before he spoke. "You've
come for that letter, I suppose, Fulkerson? It isn't done."

Fulkerson turned from staring at the bust to which he had mounted. "What you fretting about
that letter for? I don't want your letter."

Beaton stopped biting his cigarette and looked at him. "Don't want my letter? Oh, very good!"
he bristled up. He took his cigarette from his lips, and blew the smoke through his nostrils,
and then looked at Fulkerson.

"No; I don't want your letter; I want you."

Beacon disdained to ask an explanation, but he internally lowered his crest, while he continued
to look at Fulkerson without changing his defiant countenance. This suited Fulkerson well enough,
and he went on with relish, "I'm going out of the syndicate business, old man, and I'm on a
new thing." He put his leg over the back of a chair and rested his foot on its seat, and, with
one hand in his pocket, he laid the scheme of 'Every Other Week' before Beaton with the help
of the other. The artist went about the room, meanwhile, with an effect of indifference which
by no means offended Fulkerson. He took some water into his mouth from a tumbler, which he
blew in a fine mist over the head of Judas before swathing it in a dirty cotton cloth; he washed
his brushes and set his palette; he put up on his easel the picture he had blocked on the day
before, and stared at it with a gloomy face; then he gathered the sheets of his unfinished
letter together and slid them into a drawer of his writing-desk. By the time he had finished
and turned again to Fulkerson, Fulkerson was saying: "I did think we could have the first number
out by New-Year's; but it will take longer than that--a month longer; but I'm not sorry, for
the holidays kill everything; and by February, or the middle of February, people will get their
breath again and begin to look round and ask what's new. Then we'll reply in the language of
Shakespeare and Milton, 'Every Other Week; and don't you forget it.'" He took down his leg
and asked, "Got a pipe of 'baccy anywhere?"

Beaton nodded at a clay stem sticking out of a Japanese vase of bronze on his mantel. "There's
yours," he said; and Fulkerson said, "Thanks," and filled the pipe and sat down and began to
smoke tranquilly.

Beaton saw that he would have to speak now. "And what do you want with me?"

"You? Oh yes," Fulkerson humorously dramatized a return to himself from a pensive absence.
"Want you for the art department."

Beaton shook his head. "I'm not your man, Fulkerson," he said, compassionately. "You want a
more practical hand, one that's in touch with what's going. I'm getting further and further
away from this century and its claptrap. I don't believe in your enterprise; I don't respect
it, and I won't have anything to do with it. It would-choke me, that kind of thing."

"That's all right," said Fulkerson. He esteemed a man who was not going to let himself go cheap.
"Or if it isn't, we can make it. You and March will pull together first-rate. I don't care
how much ideal you put into the thing; the more the better. I can look after the other end
of the schooner myself."

"You don't understand me," said Beaton. "I'm not trying to get a rise out of you. I'm in earnest.
What you want is some man who can have patience with mediocrity putting on the style of genius,
and with genius turning mediocrity on his hands. I haven't any luck with men; I don't get on
with them; I'm not popular." Beaton recognized the fact with the satisfaction which it somehow
always brings to human pride.

"So much the better!" Fulkerson was ready for him at this point. "I don't want you to work
the old-established racket the reputations. When I want them I'll go to them with a pocketful
of rocks--knock-down argument. But my idea is to deal with the volunteer material. Look at
the way the periodicals are carried on now! Names! names! names! In a country that's just boiling
over with literary and artistic ability of every kind the new fellows have no chance. The editors
all engage their material. I don't believe there are fifty volunteer contributions printed
in a year in all the New York magazines. It's all wrong; it's suicidal. 'Every Other Week'
is going back to the good old anonymous system, the only fair system. It's worked well in literature,
and it will work well in art."

"It won't work well in art," said Beaton. "There you have a totally different set of conditions.
What you'll get by inviting volunteer illustrations will be a lot of amateur trash. And how
are you going to submit your literature for illustration? It can't be done. At any rate, I
won't undertake to do it."

"We'll get up a School of Illustration," said Fulkerson, with cynical security. "You can read
the things and explain 'em, and your pupils can make their sketches under your eye. They wouldn't
be much further out than most illustrations are if they never knew what they were illustrating.
You might select from what comes in and make up a sort of pictorial variations to the literature
without any particular reference to it. Well, I understand you to accept?"

"No, you don't."

"That is, to consent to help us with your advice and criticism. That's all I want. It won't
commit you to anything; and you can be as anonymous as anybody." At the door Fulkerson added:
"By-the-way, the new man--the fellow that's taken my old syndicate business--will want you
to keep on; but I guess he's going to try to beat you down on the price of the letters. He's
going in for retrenchment. I brought along a check for this one; I'm to pay for that." He offered
Beaton an envelope.

"I can't take it, Fulkerson. The letter's paid for already." Fulkerson stepped forward and
laid the envelope on the table among the tubes of paint.

"It isn't the letter merely. I thought you wouldn't object to a little advance on your 'Every
Other Week' work till you kind of got started."

Beaton remained inflexible. "It can't be done, Fulkerson. Don't I tell you I can't sell myself
out to a thing I don't believe in? Can't you understand that?"

"Oh yes; I can understand that first-rate. I don't want to buy you; I want to borrow you. It's
all right. See? Come round when you can; I'd like to introduce you to old March. That's going
to be our address." He put a card on the table beside the envelope, and Beaton allowed him
to go without making him take the check back. He had remembered his father's plea; that unnerved
him, and he promised himself again to return his father's poor little check and to work on
that picture and give it to Fulkerson for the check he had left and for his back debts. He
resolved to go to work on the picture at once; he had set his palette for it; but first he
looked at Fulkerson's check. It was for only fifty dollars, and the canny Scotch blood in Beaton
rebelled; he could not let this picture go for any such money; he felt a little like a man
whose generosity has been trifled with. The conflict of emotions broke him up, and he could
not work.

IV

The day wasted away in Beaton's hands; at half-past four o'clock he went out to tea at the
house of a lady who was At Home that afternoon from four till seven. By this time Beaton was
in possession of one of those other selves of which we each have several about us, and was
again the laconic, staccato, rather worldlified young artist whose moments of a controlled
utterance and a certain distinction of manner had commended him to Mrs. Horn's fancy in the
summer at St. Barnaby.

Mrs. Horn's rooms were large, and they never seemed very full, though this perhaps was because
people were always so quiet. The ladies, who outnumbered the men ten to one, as they always
do at a New York tea, were dressed in sympathy with the low tone every one spoke in, and with
the subdued light which gave a crepuscular uncertainty to the few objects, the dim pictures,
the unexcited upholstery, of the rooms. One breathed free of bric-a-brac there, and the new-comer
breathed softly as one does on going into church after service has begun. This might be a suggestion
from the voiceless behavior of the man-servant who let you in, but it was also because Mrs.
Horn's At Home was a ceremony, a decorum, and not festival. At far greater houses there was
more gayety, at richer houses there was more freedom; the suppression at Mrs. Horn's was a
personal, not a social, effect; it was an efflux of her character, demure, silentious, vague,
but very correct.

Beaton easily found his way to her around the grouped skirts and among the detached figures,
and received a pressure of welcome from the hand which she momentarily relaxed from the tea-pot.
She sat behind a table put crosswise of a remote corner, and offered tea to people whom a niece
of hers received provisionally or sped finally in the outer room. They did not usually take
tea, and when they did they did not usually drink it; but Beaton was, feverishly glad of his
cup; he took rum and lemon in it, and stood talking at Mrs. Horn's side till the next arrival
should displace him: he talked in his French manner.

"I have been hoping to see you," she said. "I wanted to ask you about the Leightons. Did they
really come?"

"I believe so. They are in town--yes. I haven't seen them."

"Then you don't know how they're getting on--that pretty creature, with her cleverness, and
poor Mrs. Leighton? I was afraid they were venturing on a rash experiment. Do you know where
they are?"

"In West Eleventh Street somewhere. Miss Leighton is in Mr. Wetmore's class."

"I must look them up. Do you know their number?"

"Not at the moment. I can find out."

"Do," said Mrs. Horn. "What courage they must have, to plunge into New York as they've done!
I really didn't think they would. I wonder if they've succeeded in getting anybody into their
house yet?"

"I don't know," said Beaton.

"I discouraged their coming all I could," she sighed, "and I suppose you did, too. But it's
quite useless trying to make people in a place like St. Barnaby understand how it is in town."

"Yes," said Beaton. He stirred his tea, while inwardly he tried to believe that he had really
discouraged the Leightons from coming to New York. Perhaps the vexation of his failure made
him call Mrs. Horn in his heart a fraud.

"Yes," she went on, "it is very, very hard. And when they won't understand, and rush on their
doom, you feel that they are going to hold you respons--"

Mrs. Horn's eyes wandered from Beaton; her voice faltered in the faded interest of her remark,
and then rose with renewed vigor in greeting a lady who came up and stretched her glove across
the tea-cups.

Beaton got himself away and out of the house with a much briefer adieu to the niece than he
had meant to make. The patronizing compassion of Mrs. Horn for the Leightons filled him with
indignation toward her, toward himself. There was no reason why he should not have ignored
them as he had done; but there was a feeling. It was his nature to be careless, and he had
been spoiled into recklessness; he neglected everybody, and only remembered them when it suited
his whim or his convenience; but he fiercely resented the inattentions of others toward himself.
He had no scruple about breaking an engagement or failing to keep an appointment; he made promises
without thinking of their fulfilment, and not because he was a faithless person, but because
he was imaginative, and expected at the time to do what he said, but was fickle, and so did
not. As most of his shortcomings were of a society sort, no great harm was done to anybody
else. He had contracted somewhat the circle of his acquaintance by what some people called
his rudeness, but most people treated it as his oddity, and were patient with it. One lady
said she valued his coming when he said he would come because it had the charm of the unexpected.
"Only it shows that it isn't always the unexpected that happens," she explained.

It did not occur to him that his behavior was immoral; he did not realize that it was creating
a reputation if not a character for him. While we are still young we do not realize that our
actions have this effect. It seems to us that people will judge us from what we think and feel.
Later we find out that this is impossible; perhaps we find it out too late; some of us never
find it out at all.

In spite of his shame about the Leightons, Beaton had no present intention of looking them
up or sending Mrs. Horn their address. As a matter of fact, he never did send it; but he happened
to meet Mr. Wetmore and his wife at the restaurant where he dined, and he got it of the painter
for himself. He did not ask him how Miss Leighton was getting on; but Wetmore launched out,
with Alma for a tacit text, on the futility of women generally going in for art. "Even when
they have talent they've got too much against them. Where a girl doesn't seem very strong,
like Miss Leighton, no amount of chic is going to help."

His wife disputed him on behalf of her sex, as women always do.

"No, Dolly," he persisted; "she'd better be home milking the cows and leading the horse to water."

Do you think she'd better be up till two in the morning at balls and going all day to receptions
and luncheons?"

"Oh, guess it isn't a question of that, even if she weren't drawing. You knew them at home,"
he said to Beaton.

"Yes."

"I remember. Her mother said you suggested me. Well, the girl has some notion of it; there's
no doubt about that. But--she's a woman. The trouble with these talented girls is that they're
all woman. If they weren't, there wouldn't be much chance for the men, Beaton. But we've got
Providence on our own side from the start. I'm able to watch all their inspirations with perfect
composure. I know just how soon it's going to end in nervous breakdown. Somebody ought to marry
them all and put them out of their misery."

"And what will you do with your students who are married already?" his wife said. She felt
that she had let him go on long enough.

"Oh, they ought to get divorced."

"You ought to be ashamed to take their money if that's what you think of them."

"My dear, I have a wife to support."

Beaton intervened with a question. "Do you mean that Miss Leighton isn't standing it very well?"

"How do I know? She isn't the kind that bends; she's the kind that breaks."

After a little silence Mrs. Wetmore asked, "Won't you come home with us, Mr. Beaton?"

"Thank you; no. I have an engagement."

"I don't see why that should prevent you," said Wetmore. "But you always were a punctilious
cuss. Well!"

Beaton lingered over his cigar; but no one else whom he knew came in, and he yielded to the
threefold impulse of conscience, of curiosity, of inclination, in going to call at the Leightons'.
He asked for the ladies, and the maid showed him into the parlor, where he found Mrs. Leighton
and Miss Woodburn.

The widow met him with a welcome neatly marked by resentment; she meant him to feel that his
not coming sooner had been noticed. Miss Woodburn bubbled and gurgled on, and did what she
could to mitigate his punishment, but she did not feel authorized to stay it, till Mrs. Leighton,
by studied avoidance of her daughter's name, obliged Beaton to ask for her. Then Miss Woodburn
caught up her work, and said, "Ah'll go and tell her, Mrs. Leighton." At the top of the stairs
she found Alma, and Alma tried to make it seem as if she had not been standing there. "Mah
goodness, chald! there's the handsomest young man asking for you down there you evah saw. Alh
told you' mothah Ah would come up fo' you."

"What--who is it?"

"Don't you know? But bo' could you? He's got the most beautiful eyes, and he wea's his hai'
in a bang, and he talks English like it was something else, and his name's Mr. Beaton."

"Did he-ask for me?" said Alma, with a dreamy tone. She put her hand on the stairs rail, and
a little shiver ran over her.

"Didn't I tell you? Of coase he did! And you ought to go raght down if you want to save the
poo' fellah's lahfe; you' mothah's just freezin' him to death."

V.

"She is?" cried Alma. "Tchk!" She flew downstairs, and flitted swiftly into the room, and fluttered
up to Beaton, and gave him a crushing hand-shake.

"How very kind, of you to come and see us, Mr. Beaton! When did you come to New York? Don't
you find it warm here? We've only just lighted the furnace, but with this mild weather it seems
too early. Mamma does keep it so hot!" She rushed about opening doors and shutting registers,
and then came back and sat facing him from the sofa with a mask of radiant cordiality. "How
have you been since we saw you?"

"Very well," said Beaton. "I hope you're well, Miss Leighton?"

"Oh, perfectly! I think New York agrees with us both wonderfully. I never knew such air. And
to think of our not having snow yet! I should think everybody would want to come here! Why
don't you come, Mr. Beaton?"

Beaton lifted his eyes and looked at her. "I--I live in New York," he faltered.

"In New York City!" she exclaimed.

"Surely, Alma," said her mother, "you remember Mr. Beaton's telling us he lived in New York."

"But I thought you came from Rochester; or was it Syracuse? I always get those places mixed up."

"Probably I told you my father lived at Syracuse. I've been in New York ever since I came home
from Paris," said Beaton, with the confusion of a man who feels himself played upon by a woman.

"From Paris!" Alma echoed, leaning forward, with her smiling mask tight on. "Wasn't it Munich
where you studied?"

"I was at Munich, too. I met Wetmore there."

"Oh, do you know Mr. Wetmore?"

"Why, Alma," her mother interposed again, "it was Mr. Beaton who told you of Mr. Wetmore."

"Was it? Why, yes, to be sure. It was Mrs. Horn who suggested Mr. Ilcomb. I remember now. I
can't thank you enough for having sent me to Mr. Wetmore, Mr. Beaton. Isn't he delightful?
Oh yes, I'm a perfect Wetmorian, I can assure you. The whole class is the same way."

"I just met him and Mrs. Wetmore at dinner," said Beaton, attempting the recovery of something
that he had lost through the girl's shining ease and steely sprightliness. She seemed to him
so smooth and hard, with a repellent elasticity from which he was flung off. "I hope you're
not working too hard, Miss Leighton?"

"Oh no! I enjoy every minute of it, and grow stronger on it. Do I look very much wasted away?"
She looked him full in the face, brilliantly smiling, and intentionally beautiful.

"No," he said, with a slow sadness; "I never saw you looking better."

"Poor Mr. Beaton!" she said, in recognition of his doleful tune. "It seems to be quite a blow."

"Oh no--"

"I remember all the good advice you used to give me about not working too hard, and probably
it's that that's saved my life--that and the house-hunting. Has mamma told you of our adventures
in getting settled?

"Some time we must. It was such fun! And didn't you think we were fortunate to get such a pretty
house? You must see both our parlors." She jumped up, and her mother followed her with a bewildered
look as she ran into the back parlor and flashed up the gas.

"Come in here, Mr. Beaton. I want to show you the great feature of the house." She opened the
low windows that gave upon a glazed veranda stretching across the end of the room. "Just think
of this in New York! You can't see it very well at night, but when the southern sun pours in
here all the afternoon--"

"Yes, I can imagine it," he said. He glanced up at the bird-cage hanging from the roof. "I
suppose Gypsy enjoys it."

"You remember Gypsy?" she said; and she made a cooing, kissing little noise up at the bird,
who responded drowsily. "Poor old Gypsum! Well, he sha'n't be disturbed. Yes, it's Gyp's delight,
and Colonel Woodburn likes to write here in the morning. Think of us having a real live author
in the house! And Miss Woodburn: I'm so glad you've seen her! They're Southern people."

"Yes, that was obvious in her case."

"From her accent? Isn't it fascinating? I didn't believe I could ever endure Southerners, but
we're like one family with the Woodburns. I should think you'd want to paint Miss Woodburn.
Don't you think her coloring is delicious? And such a quaint kind of eighteenth-century type
of beauty! But she's perfectly lovely every way, and everything she says is so funny. The Southerners
seem to be such great talkers; better than we are, don't you think?"

"I don't know," said Beaton, in pensive discouragement. He was sensible of being manipulated,
operated, but he was helpless to escape from the performer or to fathom her motives. His pensiveness
passed into gloom, and was degenerating into sulky resentment when he went away, after several
failures to get back to the old ground he had held in relation to Alma. He retrieved something
of it with Mrs. Leighton; but Alma glittered upon him to the last with a keen impenetrable
candor, a child-like singleness of glance, covering unfathomable reserve.

"Well, Alma," said her mother, when the door had closed upon him.

"Well, mother." Then, after a moment, she said, with a rush: "Did you think I was going to
let him suppose we were piqued at his not coming? Did you suppose I was going to let him patronize
us, or think that we were in the least dependent on his favor or friendship?"

Her mother did not attempt to answer her. She merely said, "I shouldn't think he would come
any more."

"Well, we have got on so far without him; perhaps we can live through the rest of the winter."

"I couldn't help feeling sorry for him. He was quite stupefied. I could see that he didn't
know what to make of you."

"He's not required to make anything of me," said Alma.

"Do you think he really believed you had forgotten all those things?"

"Impossible to say, mamma."

"Well, I don't think it was quite right, Alma."

"I'll leave him to you the next time. Miss Woodburn said you were freezing him to death when
I came down."

"That was quite different. But, there won't be any next time, I'm afraid," sighed Mrs. Leighton.

Beaton went home feeling sure there would not. He tried to read when he got to his room; but
Alma's looks, tones, gestures, whirred through and through the woof of the story like shuttles;
he could not keep them out, and he fell asleep at last, not because he forgot them, but because
he forgave them. He was able to say to himself that he had been justly cut off from kindness
which he knew how to value in losing it. He did not expect ever to right himself in Alma's
esteem, but he hoped some day to let her know that he had understood. It seemed to him that
it would be a good thing if she should find it out after his death. He imagined her being touched
by it under those circumstances.

VI.

In the morning it seemed to Beaton that he had done himself injustice. When he uncovered his
Judas and looked at it, he could not believe that the man who was capable of such work deserved
the punishment Miss Leighton had inflicted upon him. He still forgave her, but in the presence
of a thing like that he could not help respecting himself; he believed that if she could see
it she would be sorry that she had cut herself off from his acquaintance. He carried this strain
of conviction all through his syndicate letter, which he now took out of his desk and finished,
with an increasing security of his opinions and a mounting severity in his judgments. He retaliated
upon the general condition of art among us the pangs of wounded vanity, which Alma had made
him feel, and he folded up his manuscript and put it in his pocket, almost healed of his humiliation.
He had been able to escape from its sting so entirely while he was writing that the notion
of making his life more and more literary commended itself to him. As it was now evident that
the future was to be one of renunciation, of self-forgetting, an oblivion tinged with bitterness,
he formlessly reasoned in favor of reconsidering his resolution against Fulkerson's offer.
One must call it reasoning, but it was rather that swift internal dramatization which constantly
goes on in persons of excitable sensibilities, and which now seemed to sweep Beaton physically
along toward the 'Every Other Week' office, and carried his mind with lightning celerity on
to a time when he should have given that journal such quality and authority in matters of art
as had never been enjoyed by any in America before. With the prosperity which he made attend
his work he changed the character of the enterprise, and with Fulkerson's enthusiastic support
he gave the public an art journal of as high grade as 'Les Lettres et les Arts', and very much
that sort of thing. All this involved now the unavailing regret of Alma Leighton, and now his
reconciliation with her they were married in Grace Church, because Beaton had once seen a marriage
there, and had intended to paint a picture of it some time.

Nothing in these fervid fantasies prevented his responding with due dryness to Fulkerson's
cheery "Hello, old man!" when he found himself in the building fitted up for the 'Every Other
Week' office. Fulkerson's room was back of the smaller one occupied by the bookkeeper; they
had been respectively the reception-room and dining-room of the little place in its dwelling-house
days, and they had been simply and tastefully treated in their transformation into business
purposes. The narrow old trim of the doors and windows had been kept, and the quaintly ugly
marble mantels. The architect had said, Better let them stay they expressed epoch, if not character.

"Well, have you come round to go to work? Just hang up your coat on the floor anywhere," Fulkerson
went on.

"I've come to bring you that letter," said Beaton, all the more haughtily because he found
that Fulkerson was not alone when he welcomed him in these free and easy terms. There was a
quiet-looking man, rather stout, and a little above the middle height, with a full, close-cropped
iron-gray beard, seated beyond the table where Fulkerson tilted himself back, with his knees
set against it; and leaning against the mantel there was a young man with a singularly gentle
face, in which the look of goodness qualified and transfigured a certain simplicity. His large
blue eyes were somewhat prominent; and his rather narrow face was drawn forward in a nose a
little too long perhaps, if it had not been for the full chin deeply cut below the lip, and
jutting firmly forward.

"Introduce you to Mr. March, our editor, Mr. Beaton," Fulkerson said, rolling his head in the
direction of the elder man; and then nodding it toward the younger, he said, "Mr. Dryfoos,
Mr. Beaton." Beaton shook hands with March, and then with Mr. Dryfoos, and Fulkerson went on,
gayly: "We were just talking of you, Beaton--well, you know the old saying. Mr. March, as I
told you, is our editor, and Mr. Dryfoos has charge of the publishing department--he's the
counting-room incarnate, the source of power, the fountain of corruption, the element that
prevents journalism being the high and holy thing that it would be if there were no money in
it." Mr. Dryfoos turned his large, mild eyes upon Beaton, and laughed with the uneasy concession
which people make to a character when they do not quite approve of the character's language.
"What Mr. March and I are trying to do is to carry on this thing so that there won't be any
money in it--or very little; and we're planning to give the public a better article for the
price than it's ever had before. Now here's a dummy we've had made up for 'Every Other Week',
and as we've decided to adopt it, we would naturally like your opinion of it, so's to know
what opinion to have of you." He reached forward and pushed toward Beaton a volume a little
above the size of the ordinary duodecimo book; its ivory-white pebbled paper cover was prettily
illustrated with a water-colored design irregularly washed over the greater part of its surface:
quite across the page at top, and narrowing from right to left as it descended. In the triangular
space left blank the title of the periodical and the publisher's imprint were tastefully lettered
so as to be partly covered by the background of color.

"It's like some of those Tartarin books of Daudet's," said Beacon, looking at it with more
interest than he suffered to be seen. "But it's a book, not a magazine." He opened its pages
of thick, mellow white paper, with uncut leaves, the first few pages experimentally printed
in the type intended to be used, and illustrated with some sketches drawn into and over the
text, for the sake of the effect.

"A Daniel--a Daniel come to judgment! Sit down, Dan'el, and take it easy." Fulkerson pushed
a chair toward Beaton, who dropped into it. "You're right, Dan'el; it's a book, to all practical
intents and purposes. And what we propose to do with the American public is to give it twenty-four
books like this a year--a complete library--for the absurd sum of six dollars. We don't intend
to sell 'em--it's no name for the transaction--but to give 'em. And what we want to get out
of you--beg, borrow, buy, or steal from you is an opinion whether we shall make the American
public this princely present in paper covers like this, or in some sort of flexible boards,
so they can set them on the shelf and say no more about it. Now, Dan'el, come to judgment,
as our respected friend Shylock remarked."

Beacon had got done looking at the dummy, and he dropped it on the table before Fulkerson,
who pushed it away, apparently to free himself from partiality. "I don't know anything about
the business side, and I can't tell about the effect of either style on the sales; but you'll
spoil the whole character of the cover if you use anything thicker than that thickish paper."

"All right; very good; first-rate. The ayes have it. Paper it is. I don't mind telling you
that we had decided for that paper before you came in. Mr. March wanted it, because he felt
in his bones just the way you do about it, and Mr. Dryfoos wanted it, because he's the counting-room
incarnate, and it's cheaper; and I 'wanted it, because I always like to go with the majority.
Now what do you think of that little design itself?"

"The sketch?" Beaton pulled the book toward him again and looked at it again. "Rather decorative.
Drawing's not remarkable. Graceful; rather nice." He pushed the book away again, and Fulkerson
pulled it to his aide of the table.

"Well, that's a piece of that amateur trash you despise so much. I went to a painter I know-by-the-way,
he was guilty of suggesting you for this thing, but I told him I was ahead of him--and I got
him to submit my idea to one of his class, and that's the result. Well, now, there ain't anything
in this world that sells a book like a pretty cover, and we're going to have a pretty cover
for 'Every Other Week' every time. We've cut loose from the old traditional quarto literary
newspaper size, and we've cut loose from the old two-column big page magazine size; we're going
to have a duodecimo page, clear black print, and paper that 'll make your mouth water; and
we're going to have a fresh illustration for the cover of each number, and we ain't agoing
to give the public any rest at all. Sometimes we're going to have a delicate little landscape
like this, and sometimes we're going to have an indelicate little figure, or as much so as
the law will allow."

The young man leaning against the mantelpiece blushed a sort of protest.

March smiled and said, dryly, "Those are the numbers that Mr. Fulkerson is going to edit himself."

"Exactly. And Mr. Beaton, here, is going to supply the floating females, gracefully airing
themselves against a sunset or something of that kind." Beaton frowned in embarrassment, while
Fulkerson went on philosophically; "It's astonishing how you fellows can keep it up at this
stage of the proceedings; you can paint things that your harshest critic would be ashamed to
describe accurately; you're as free as the theatre. But that's neither here nor there. What
I'm after is the fact that we're going to have variety in our title-pages, and we are going
to have novelty in the illustrations of the body of the book. March, here, if he had his own
way, wouldn't have any illustrations at all."

"Not because I don't like them, Mr. Beacon," March interposed, "but because I like them too
much. I find that I look at the pictures in an illustrated article, but I don't read the article
very much, and I fancy that's the case with most other people. You've got to doing them so
prettily that you take our eyes off the literature, if you don't take our minds off."

"Like the society beauties on the stage: people go in for the beauty so much that they don't
know what the play is. But the box-office gets there all the same, and that's what Mr. Dryfoos
wants." Fulkerson looked up gayly at Mr. Dryfoos, who smiled deprecatingly.

"It was different," March went on, "when the illustrations used to be bad. Then the text had
some chance."

"Old legitimate drama days, when ugliness and genius combined to storm the galleries," said
Fulkerson.

"We can still make them bad enough," said Beaton, ignoring Fulkerson in his remark to March.

Fulkerson took the reply upon himself. "Well, you needn't make 'em so bad as the old-style
cuts; but you can make them unobtrusive, modestly retiring. We've got hold of a process something
like that those French fellows gave Daudet thirty-five thousand dollars to write a novel to
use with; kind of thing that begins at one side; or one corner, and spreads in a sort of dim
religious style over the print till you can't tell which is which. Then we've got a notion
that where the pictures don't behave quite so sociably, they can be dropped into the text,
like a little casual remark, don't you know, or a comment that has some connection, or maybe
none at all, with what's going on in the story. Something like this." Fulkerson took away one
knee from the table long enough to open the drawer, and pull from it a book that he shoved
toward Beacon. "That's a Spanish book I happened to see at Brentano's, and I froze to it on
account of the pictures. I guess they're pretty good."

"Do you expect to get such drawings in this country?" asked Beaton, after a glance at the book.
"Such character--such drama? You won't."

"Well, I'm not so sure," said Fulkerson, "come to get our amateurs warmed up to the work. But
what I want is to get the physical effect, so to speak-get that sized picture into our page,
and set the fashion of it. I shouldn't care if the illustration was sometimes confined to an
initial letter and a tail-piece."

"Couldn't be done here. We haven't the touch. We're good in some things, but this isn't in
our way," said Beaton, stubbornly. "I can't think of a man who could do it; that is, among
those that would."

"Well, think of some woman, then," said Fulkerson, easily. "I've got a notion that the women
could help us out on this thing, come to get 'em interested. There ain't anything so popular
as female fiction; why not try female art?"

"The females themselves have been supposed to have been trying it for a good while," March
suggested; and Mr. Dryfoos laughed nervously; Beaton remained solemnly silent.

"Yes, I know," Fulkerson assented. "But I don't mean that kind exactly. What we want to do
is to work the 'ewig Weibliche' in this concern. We want to make a magazine that will go for
the women's fancy every time. I don't mean with recipes for cooking and fashions and personal
gossip about authors and society, but real high-tone literature that will show women triumphing
in all the stories, or else suffering tremendously. We've got to recognize that women form
three-fourths of the reading public in this country, and go for their tastes and their sensibilities
and their sex-piety along the whole line. They do like to think that women can do things better
than men; and if we can let it leak out and get around in the papers that the managers of 'Every
Other Week' couldn't stir a peg in the line of the illustrations they wanted till they got
a lot of God-gifted girls to help them, it 'll make the fortune of the thing. See?"

He looked sunnily round at the other men, and March said: "You ought to be in charge of a Siamese
white elephant, Fulkerson. It's a disgrace to be connected with you."

"It seems to me," said Becton, "that you'd better get a God-gifted girl for your art editor."

Fulkerson leaned alertly forward, and touched him on the shoulder, with a compassionate smile.
"My dear boy, they haven't got the genius of organization. It takes a very masculine man for
that--a man who combines the most subtle and refined sympathies with the most forceful purposes
and the most ferruginous will-power. Which his name is Angus Beaton, and here he sets!"

The others laughed with Fulkerson at his gross burlesque of flattery, and Becton frowned sheepishly.
"I suppose you understand this man's style," he growled toward March.

"He does, my son," said Fulkerson. "He knows that I cannot tell a lie." He pulled out his watch,
and then got suddenly upon his feet.

"It's quarter of twelve, and I've got an appointment." Beaton rose too, and Fulkerson put the
two books in his lax hands. "Take these along, Michelangelo Da Vinci, my friend, and put your
multitudinous mind on them for about an hour, and let us hear from you to-morrow. We hang upon
your decision."

"There's no deciding to be done," said Beaton. "You can't combine the two styles. They'd kill
each other."

"A Dan'el, a Dan'el come to judgment! I knew you could help us out! Take 'em along, and tell
us which will go the furthest with the 'ewig Weibliche.' Dryfoos, I want a word with you."
He led the way into the front room, flirting an airy farewell to Beaton with his hand as he went.

VII.

March and Beaton remained alone together for a moment, and March said: "I hope you will think
it worth while to take hold with us, Mr. Beaton. Mr. Fulkerson puts it in his own way, of course;
but we really want to make a nice thing of the magazine." He had that timidity of the elder
in the presence of the younger man which the younger, preoccupied with his own timidity in
the presence of the elder, cannot imagine. Besides, March was aware of the gulf that divided
him as a literary man from Beaton as an artist, and he only ventured to feel his way toward
sympathy with him. "We want to make it good; we want to make it high. Fulkerson is right about
aiming to please the women, but of course he caricatures the way of going about it."

For answer, Beaton flung out, "I can't go in for a thing I don't understand the plan of."

March took it for granted that he had wounded some exposed sensibility, of Beaton's. He continued
still more deferentially: "Mr. Fulkerson's notion--I must say the notion is his, evolved from
his syndicate experience--is that we shall do best in fiction to confine our selves to short
stories, and make each number complete in itself. He found that the most successful things
he could furnish his newspapers were short stories; we Americans are supposed to excel in writing
them; and most people begin with them in fiction; and it's Mr. Fulkerson's idea to work unknown
talent, as he says, and so he thinks he can not only get them easily, but can gradually form
a school of short-story writers. I can't say I follow him altogether, but I respect his experience.
We shall not despise translations of short stories, but otherwise the matter will all be original,
and, of course, it won't all be short stories. We shall use sketches of travel, and essays,
and little dramatic studies, and bits of biography and history; but all very light, and always
short enough to be completed in a single number. Mr. Fulkerson believes in pictures, and most
of the things would be capable of illustration."

"I see," said Beaton.

"I don't know but this is the whole affair," said March, beginning to stiffen a little at the
young man's reticence.

"I understand. Thank you for taking the trouble to explain. Good-morning." Beaton bowed himself
off, without offering to shake hands.

Fulkerson came in after a while from the outer office, and Mr. Dryfoos followed him. "Well,
what do you think of our art editor?"

"Is he our art editor?" asked March. "I wasn't quite certain when he left."

"Did he take the books?"

"Yes, he took the books."

"I guess he's all right, then." Fulkerson added, in concession to the umbrage he detected in March.

"Beaton has his times of being the greatest ass in the solar system, but he usually takes it
out in personal conduct. When it comes to work, he's a regular horse."

"He appears to have compromised for the present by being a perfect mule," said March.

"Well, he's in a transition state," Fulkerson allowed. "He's the man for us. He really understands
what we want. You'll see; he'll catch on. That lurid glare of his will wear off in the course
of time. He's really a good fellow when you take him off his guard; and he's full of ideas.
He's spread out over a good deal of ground at present, and so he's pretty thin; but come to
gather him up into a lump, there's a good deal of substance to him. Yes, there is. He's a first-rate
critic, and he's a nice fellow with the other artists. They laugh at his universality, but
they all like him. He's the best kind of a teacher when he condescends to it; and he's just
the man to deal with our volunteer work. Yes, sir, he's a prize. Well, I must go now."

Fulkerson went out of the street door, and then came quickly back. "By-the-bye, March, I saw
that old dynamiter of yours round at Beaton's room yesterday."

"What old dynamiter of mine?"

"That old one-handed Dutchman--friend of your youth--the one we saw at Maroni's--"

"Oh-Lindau!" said March, with a vague pang of self reproach for having thought of Lindau so
little after the first flood of his tender feeling toward him was past.

"Yes, our versatile friend was modelling him as Judas Iscariot. Lindau makes a first-rate Judas,
and Beaton has got a big thing in that head if he works the religious people right. But what
I was thinking of was this--it struck me just as I was going out of the door: Didn't you tell
me Lindau knew forty or fifty, different languages?"

"Four or five, yes."

"Well, we won't quarrel about the number. The question is, Why not work him in the field of
foreign literature? You can't go over all their reviews and magazines, and he could do the
smelling for you, if you could trust his nose. Would he know a good thing?"

"I think he would," said March, on whom the scope of Fulkerson's suggestion gradually opened.
"He used to have good taste, and he must know the ground. Why, it's a capital idea, Fulkerson!
Lindau wrote very fair English, and he could translate, with a little revision."

"And he would probably work cheap. Well, hadn't you better see him about it? I guess it 'll
be quite a windfall for him."

"Yes, it will. I'll look him up. Thank you for the suggestion, Fulkerson."

"Oh, don't mention it! I don't mind doing 'Every Other Week' a good turn now and then when
it comes in my way." Fulkerson went out again, and this time March was finally left with Mr.
Dryfoos.

"Mrs. March was very sorry not to be at home when your sisters called the other day. She wished
me to ask if they had any afternoon in particular. There was none on your mother's card."

"No, sir," said the young man, with a flush of embarrassment that seemed habitual with him.
"She has no day. She's at home almost every day. She hardly ever goes out."

"Might we come some evening?" March asked. "We should be very glad to do that, if she would
excuse the informality. Then I could come with Mrs. March."

"Mother isn't very formal," said the young man. "She would be very glad to see you."

"Then we'll come some night this week, if you will let us. When do you expect your father back?"

"Not much before Christmas. He's trying to settle up some things at Moffitt."

"And what do you think of our art editor?" asked March, with a smile, for the change of subject.

"Oh, I don't know much about such things," said the young man, with another of his embarrassed
flushes. "Mr. Fulkerson seems to feel sure that he is the one for us."

"Mr. Fulkerson seemed to think that I was the one for you, too," said March; and he laughed.
"That's what makes me doubt his infallibility. But he couldn't do worse with Mr. Beaton."

Mr. Dryfoos reddened and looked down, as if unable or unwilling to cope with the difficulty
of making a polite protest against March's self-depreciation. He said, after a moment: "It's
new business to all of us except Mr. Fulkerson. But I think it will succeed. I think we can
do some good in it."

March asked rather absently, "Some good?" Then he added: "Oh yes; I think we can. What do you
mean by good? Improve the public taste? Elevate the standard of literature? Give young authors
and artists a chance?"

This was the only good that had ever been in March's mind, except the good that was to come
in a material way from his success, to himself and to his family.

"I don't know," said the young man; and he looked down in a shamefaced fashion. He lifted his
head and looked into March's face. "I suppose I was thinking that some time we might help along.
If we were to have those sketches of yours about life in every part of New York--"

March's authorial vanity was tickled. "Fulkerson has been talking to you about them? He seemed
to think they would be a card. He believes that there's no subject so fascinating to the general
average of people throughout the country as life in New York City; and he liked my notion of
doing these things." March hoped that Dryfoos would answer that Fulkerson was perfectly enthusiastic
about his notion; but he did not need this stimulus, and, at any rate, he went on without it.
"The fact is, it's something that struck my fancy the moment I came here; I found myself intensely
interested in the place, and I began to make notes, consciously and unconsciously, at once.
Yes, I believe I can get something quite attractive out of it. I don't in the least know what
it will be yet, except that it will be very desultory; and I couldn't at all say when I can
get at it. If we postpone the first number till February I might get a little paper into that.
Yes, I think it might be a good thing for us," March said, with modest self-appreciation.

"If you can make the comfortable people understand how the uncomfortable people live, it will
be a very good thing, Mr. March. Sometimes it seems to me that the only trouble is that we
don't know one another well enough; and that the first thing is to do this." The young fellow
spoke with the seriousness in which the beauty of his face resided. Whenever he laughed his
face looked weak, even silly. It seemed to be a sense of this that made him hang his head or
turn it away at such times.

"That's true," said March, from the surface only. "And then, those phases of low life are immensely
picturesque. Of course, we must try to get the contrasts of luxury for the sake of the full
effect. That won't be so easy. You can't penetrate to the dinner-party of a millionaire under
the wing of a detective as you could to a carouse in Mulberry Street, or to his children's
nursery with a philanthropist as you can to a street-boy's lodging-house." March laughed, and
again the young man turned his head away. "Still, something can be done in that way by tact
and patience."

VII.

That evening March went with his wife to return the call of the Dryfoos ladies. On their way
up-town in the Elevated he told her of his talk with young Dryfoos. "I confess I was a little
ashamed before him afterward for having looked at the matter so entirely from the aesthetic
point of view. But of course, you know, if I went to work at those things with an ethical intention
explicitly in mind, I should spoil them."

"Of course," said his wife. She had always heard him say something of this kind about such things.

He went on: "But I suppose that's just the point that such a nature as young Dryfoos's can't
get hold of, or keep hold of. We're a queer lot, down there, Isabel--perfect menagerie. If
it hadn't been that Fulkerson got us together, and really seems to know what he did it for,
I should say he was the oddest stick among us. But when I think of myself and my own crankiness
for the literary department; and young Dryfoos, who ought really to be in the pulpit, or a
monastery, or something, for publisher; and that young Beaton, who probably hasn't a moral
fibre in his composition, for the art man, I don't know but we could give Fulkerson odds and
still beat him in oddity."

His wife heaved a deep sigh of apprehension, of renunciation, of monition. "Well, I'm glad
you can feel so light about it, Basil."

"Light? I feel gay! With Fulkerson at the helm, I tell you the rocks and the lee shore had
better keep out of the way." He laughed with pleasure in his metaphor. "Just when you think
Fulkerson has taken leave of his senses he says or does something that shows he is on the most
intimate and inalienable terms with them all the time. You know how I've been worrying over
those foreign periodicals, and trying to get some translations from them for the first number?
Well, Fulkerson has brought his centipedal mind to bear on the subject, and he's suggested
that old German friend of mine I was telling you of--the one I met in the restaurant--the friend
of my youth."

"Do you think he could do it?" asked Mrs. March, sceptically.

"He's a perfect Babel of strange tongues; and he's the very man for the work, and I was ashamed
I hadn't thought of him myself, for I suspect he needs the work."

"Well, be careful how you get mixed up with him, then, Basil," said his wife, who had the natural
misgiving concerning the friends of her husband's youth that all wives have. "You know the
Germans are so unscrupulously dependent. You don't know anything about him now."

"I'm not afraid of Lindau," said March. "He was the best and kindest man I ever saw, the most
high-minded, the most generous. He lost a hand in the war that helped to save us and keep us
possible, and that stump of his is character enough for me."

"Oh, you don't think I could have meant anything against him!" said Mrs. March, with the tender
fervor that every woman who lived in the time of the war must feel for those who suffered in
it. "All that I meant was that I hoped you would not get mixed up with him too much. You're
so apt to be carried away by your impulses."

"They didn't carry me very far away in the direction of poor old Lindau, I'm ashamed to think,"
said March. "I meant all sorts of fine things by him after I met him; and then I forgot him,
and I had to be reminded of him by Fulkerson."

She did not answer him, and he fell into a remorseful reverie, in which he rehabilitated Lindau
anew, and provided handsomely for his old age. He got him buried with military honors, and
had a shaft raised over him, with a medallion likeness by Beaton and an epitaph by himself,
by the time they reached Forty-second Street; there was no time to write Lindau's life, however
briefly, before the train stopped.

They had to walk up four blocks and then half a block across before they came to the indistinctive
brownstone house where the Dryfooses lived. It was larger than some in the same block, but
the next neighborhood of a huge apartment-house dwarfed it again. March thought he recognized
the very flat in which he had disciplined the surly janitor, but he did not tell his wife;
he made her notice the transition character of the street, which had been mostly built up in
apartment-houses, with here and there a single dwelling dropped far down beneath and beside
them, to that jag-toothed effect on the sky-line so often observable in such New York streets.
"I don't know exactly what the old gentleman bought here for," he said, as they waited on the
steps after ringing, "unless he expects to turn it into flats by-and-by. Otherwise, I don't
believe he'll get his money back."

An Irish serving-man, with a certain surprise that delayed him, said the ladies were at home,
and let the Marches in, and then carried their cards up-stairs. The drawing-room, where he
said they could sit down while he went on this errand, was delicately, decorated in white and
gold, and furnished with a sort of extravagant good taste; there was nothing to object to in
the satin furniture, the pale, soft, rich carpet, the pictures, and the bronze and china bric-a-brac,
except that their costliness was too evident; everything in the room meant money too plainly,
and too much of it. The Marches recognized this in the hoarse whispers which people cannot
get their voices above when they try to talk away the interval of waiting in such circumstances;
they conjectured from what they had heard of the Dryfooses that this tasteful luxury in no
wise expressed their civilization. "Though when you come to that," said March, "I don't know
that Mrs. Green's gimcrackery expresses ours."

"Well, Basil, I didn't take the gimcrackery. That was your--"

The rustle of skirts on the stairs without arrested Mrs. March in the well-merited punishment
which she never failed to inflict upon her husband when the question of the gimcrackery--they
always called it that--came up. She rose at the entrance of a bright-looking, pretty-looking,
mature, youngish lady, in black silk of a neutral implication, who put out her hand to her,
and said, with a very cheery, very ladylike accent, "Mrs. March?" and then added to both of
them, while she shook hands with March, and before they could get the name out of their months:
"No, not Miss Dryfoos! Neither of them; nor Mrs. Dryfoos. Mrs. Mandel. The ladies will be down
in a moment. Won't you throw off your sacque, Mrs. March? I'm afraid it's rather warm here,
coming from the outside."

"I will throw it back, if you'll allow me," said Mrs. March, with a sort of provisionality,
as if, pending some uncertainty as to Mrs. Mandel's quality and authority, she did not feel
herself justified in going further.

But if she did not know about Mrs. Mandel, Mrs. Mandel seemed to know about her. "Oh, well,
do!" she said, with a sort of recognition of the propriety of her caution. "I hope you are
feeling a little at home in New York. We heard so much of your trouble in getting a flat, from
Mr. Fulkerson."

"Well, a true Bostonian doesn't give up quite so soon," said Mrs. March.

"But I will say New York doesn't seem so far away, now we're here."

"I'm sure you'll like it. Every one does." Mrs. Mandel added to March, "It's very sharp out,
isn't it?"

"Rather sharp. But after our Boston winters I don't know but I ought to repudiate the word."

"Ah, wait till you have been here through March!" said Mrs. Mandel. She began with him, but
skillfully transferred the close of her remark, and the little smile of menace that went with
it, to his wife.

"Yes," said Mrs. March, "or April, either: Talk about our east winds!"

"Oh, I'm sure they can't be worse than our winds," Mrs. Mandel returned, caressingly.

"If we escape New York pneumonia," March laughed, "it will only be to fall a prey to New York
malaria as soon as the frost is out of the ground."

"Oh, but you know," said Mrs. Mandel, "I think our malaria has really been slandered a little.
It's more a matter of drainage--of plumbing. I don't believe it would be possible for malaria
to get into this house, we've had it gone over so thoroughly."

Mrs. March said, while she tried to divine Mrs. Mandel's position from this statement, "It's
certainly the first duty."

"If Mrs. March could have had her way, we should have had the drainage of our whole ward put
in order," said her husband, "before we ventured to take a furnished apartment for the winter."

Mrs. Mandel looked discreetly at Mrs. March for permission to laugh at this, but at the same
moment both ladies became preoccupied with a second rustling on the stairs.

Two tall, well-dressed young girls came in, and Mrs. Mandel introduced, "Miss Dryfoos, Mrs.
March; and Miss Mela Dryfoos, Mr. March," she added, and the girls shook hands in their several
ways with the Marches.

Miss Dryfoos had keen black eyes, and her hair was intensely black. Her face, but for the slight
inward curve of the nose, was regular, and the smallness of her nose and of her mouth did not
weaken her face, but gave it a curious effect of fierceness, of challenge. She had a large
black fan in her hand, which she waved in talking, with a slow, watchful nervousness. Her sister
was blonde, and had a profile like her brother's; but her chin was not so salient, and the
weak look of the mouth was not corrected by the spirituality or the fervor of his eyes, though
hers were of the same mottled blue. She dropped into the low seat beside Mrs. Mandel, and intertwined
her fingers with those of the hand which Mrs. Mandel let her have. She smiled upon the Marches,
while Miss Dryfoos watched them intensely, with her eyes first on one and then on the other,
as if she did not mean to let any expression of theirs escape her.

"My mother will be down in a minute," she said to Mrs. March.

"I hope we're not disturbing her. It is so good of you to let us come in the evening," Mrs.
March replied.

"Oh, not at all," said the girl. "We receive in the evening."

"When we do receive," Miss Mela put in. "We don't always get the chance to." She began a laugh,
which she checked at a smile from Mrs. Mandel, which no one could have seen to be reproving.

Miss Dryfoos looked down at her fan, and looked up defiantly at Mrs. March. "I suppose you
have hardly got settled. We were afraid we would disturb you when we called."

"Oh no! We were very sorry to miss your visit. We are quite settled in our new quarters. Of
course, it's all very different from Boston."

"I hope it's more of a sociable place there," Miss Mela broke in again. "I never saw such an
unsociable place as New York. We've been in this house three months, and I don't believe that
if we stayed three years any of the neighbors would call."

"I fancy proximity doesn't count for much in New York," March suggested.

Mrs. Mandel said: "That's what I tell Miss Mela. But she is a very social nature, and can't
reconcile herself to the fact."

"No, I can't," the girl pouted. "I think it was twice as much fun in Moffitt. I wish I was
there now."

"Yes," said March, "I think there's a great deal more enjoyment in those smaller places. There's
not so much going on in the way of public amusements, and so people make more of one another.
There are not so many concerts, theatres, operas--"

"Oh, they've got a splendid opera-house in Moffitt. It's just grand," said Miss Mela.

"Have you been to the opera here, this winter?" Mrs. March asked of the elder girl.

She was glaring with a frown at her sister, and detached her eyes from her with an effort.
"What did you say?" she demanded, with an absent bluntness. "Oh yes. Yes! We went once. Father
took a box at the Metropolitan."

"Then you got a good dose of Wagner, I suppose?" said March.

"What?" asked the girl.

"I don't think Miss Dryfoos is very fond of Wagner's music," Mrs. Mandel said. "I believe you
are all great Wagnerites in Boston?"

"I'm a very bad Bostonian, Mrs. Mandel. I suspect myself of preferring Verdi," March answered.

Miss Dryfoos looked down at her fan again, and said, "I like 'Trovatore' the best."

"It's an opera I never get tired of," said March, and Mrs. March and Mrs: Mandel exchanged
a smile of compassion for his simplicity. He detected it, and added: "But I dare say I shall
come down with the Wagner fever in time. I've been exposed to some malignant cases of it."

"That night we were there," said Miss Mela, "they had to turn the gas down all through one
part of it, and the papers said the ladies were awful mad because they couldn't show their
diamonds. I don't wonder, if they all had to pay as much for their boxes as we did. We had
to pay sixty dollars." She looked at the Marches for their sensation at this expense.

March said: "Well, I think I shall take my box by the month, then. It must come cheaper, wholesale."

"Oh no, it don't," said the girl, glad to inform him. "The people that own their boxes, and
that had to give fifteen or twenty thousand dollars apiece for them, have to pay sixty dollars
a night whenever there's a performance, whether they go or not."

"Then I should go every night," March said.

"Most of the ladies were low neck--"

March interposed, "Well, I shouldn't go low-neck."

The girl broke into a fondly approving laugh at his drolling. "Oh, I guess you love to train!
Us girls wanted to go low neck, too; but father said we shouldn't, and mother said if we did
she wouldn't come to the front of the box once. Well, she didn't, anyway. We might just as
well 'a' gone low neck. She stayed back the whole time, and when they had that dance--the ballet,
you know--she just shut her eyes. Well, Conrad didn't like that part much, either; but us girls
and Mrs. Mandel, we brazened it out right in the front of the box. We were about the only ones
there that went high neck. Conrad had to wear a swallow-tail; but father hadn't any, and he
had to patch out with a white cravat. You couldn't see what he had on in the back o' the box,
anyway."

Mrs. March looked at Miss Dryfoos, who was waving her fan more and more slowly up and down,
and who, when she felt herself looked at, returned Mrs. March's smile, which she meant to be
ingratiating and perhaps sympathetic, with a flash that made her start, and then ran her fierce
eyes over March's face. "Here comes mother," she said, with a sort of breathlessness, as if
speaking her thought aloud, and through the open door the Marches could see the old lady on
the stairs.

She paused half-way down, and turning, called up: "Coonrod! Coonrod! You bring my shawl down
with you."

Her daughter Mela called out to her, "Now, mother, Christine 'll give it to you for not sending
Mike."

"Well, I don't know where he is, Mely, child," the mother answered back. "He ain't never around
when he's wanted, and when he ain't, it seems like a body couldn't git shet of him, nohow."

"Well, you ought to ring for him!" cried Miss Mela, enjoying the joke.

Her mother came in with a slow step; her head shook slightly as she looked about the room,
perhaps from nervousness, perhaps from a touch of palsy. In either case the fact had a pathos
which Mrs. March confessed in the affection with which she took her hard, dry, large, old hand
when she was introduced to her, and in the sincerity which she put into the hope that she was well.

"I'm just middlin'," Mrs. Dryfoos replied. "I ain't never so well, nowadays. I tell fawther
I don't believe it agrees with me very well here, but he says I'll git used to it. He's away
now, out at Moffitt," she said to March, and wavered on foot a moment before she sank into
a chair. She was a tall woman, who had been a beautiful girl, and her gray hair had a memory
of blondeness in it like Lindau's, March noticed. She wore a simple silk gown, of a Quakerly
gray, and she held a handkerchief folded square, as it had come from the laundress. Something
like the Sabbath quiet of a little wooden meeting-house in thick Western woods expressed itself
to him from her presence.

"Laws, mother!" said Miss Mela; "what you got that old thing on for? If I'd 'a' known you'd
'a' come down in that!"

"Coonrod said it was all right, Mely," said her mother.

Miss Mela explained to the Marches: "Mother was raised among the Dunkards, and she thinks it's
wicked to wear anything but a gray silk even for dress-up."

"You hain't never heared o' the Dunkards, I reckon," the old woman said to Mrs. March. "Some
folks calls 'em the Beardy Men, because they don't never shave; and they wash feet like they
do in the Testament. My uncle was one. He raised me."

"I guess pretty much everybody's a Beardy Man nowadays, if he ain't a Dunkard!"

Miss Mela looked round for applause of her sally, but March was saying to his wife: "It's a
Pennsylvania German sect, I believe--something like the Quakers. I used to see them when I
was a boy."

"Aren't they something like the Mennists?" asked Mrs. Mandel.

"They're good people," said the old woman, "and the world 'd be a heap better off if there
was more like 'em."

Her son came in and laid a soft shawl over her shoulders before he shook hands with the visitors.
"I am glad you found your way here," he said to them.

Christine, who had been bending forward over her fan, now lifted herself up with a sigh and
leaned back in her chair.

"I'm sorry my father isn't here," said the young man to Mrs. March. "He's never met you yet?"

"No; and I should like to see him. We hear a great deal about your father, you know, from Mr.
Fulkerson."

"Oh, I hope you don't believe everything Mr. Fulkerson says about people," Mela cried. "He's
the greatest person for carrying on when he gets going I ever saw. It makes Christine just
as mad when him and mother gets to talking about religion; she says she knows he don't care
anything more about it than the man in the moon. I reckon he don't try it on much with father."

"Your fawther ain't ever been a perfessor," her mother interposed; "but he's always been a
good church-goin' man."

"Not since we come to New York," retorted the girl.

"He's been all broke up since he come to New York," said the old woman, with an aggrieved look.

Mrs. Mandel attempted a diversion. "Have you heard any of our great New York preachers yet,
Mrs. March?"

"No, I haven't," Mrs. March admitted; and she tried to imply by her candid tone that she intended
to begin hearing them the very next Sunday.

"There are a great many things here," said Conrad, "to take your thoughts off the preaching
that you hear in most of the churches. I think the city itself is preaching the best sermon
all the time."

"I don't know that I understand you," said March.

Mela answered for him. "Oh, Conrad has got a lot of notions that nobody can understand. You
ought to see the church he goes to when he does go. I'd about as lief go to a Catholic church
myself; I don't see a bit o' difference. He's the greatest crony with one of their preachers;
he dresses just like a priest, and he says he is a priest." She laughed for enjoyment of the
fact, and her brother cast down his eyes.

Mrs. March, in her turn, tried to take from it the personal tone which the talk was always
assuming. "Have you been to the fall exhibition?" she asked Christine; and the girl drew herself
up out of the abstraction she seemed sunk in.

"The exhibition?" She looked at Mrs. Mandel.

"The pictures of the Academy, you know," Mrs. Mandel explained. "Where I wanted you to go the
day you had your dress tried on."

"No; we haven't been yet. Is it good?" She had turned to Mrs. March again.

"I believe the fall exhibitions are never so good as the spring ones. But there are some good
pictures."

"I don't believe I care much about pictures," said Christine. "I don't understand them."

"Ah, that's no excuse for not caring about them," said March, lightly. "The painters themselves
don't, half the time."

The girl looked at him with that glance at once defiant and appealing, insolent and anxious,
which he had noticed before, especially when she stole it toward himself and his wife during
her sister's babble. In the light of Fulkerson's history of the family, its origin and its
ambition, he interpreted it to mean a sense of her sister's folly and an ignorant will to override
his opinion of anything incongruous in themselves and their surroundings. He said to himself
that she was deathly proud--too proud to try to palliate anything, but capable of anything
that would put others under her feet. Her eyes seemed hopelessly to question his wife's social
quality, and he fancied, with not unkindly interest, the inexperienced girl's doubt whether
to treat them with much or little respect. He lost himself in fancies about her and her ideals,
necessarily sordid, of her possibilities of suffering, of the triumphs and disappointments
before her. Her sister would accept both with a lightness that would keep no trace of either;
but in her they would sink lastingly deep. He came out of his reverie to find Mrs. Dryfoos
saying to him, in her hoarse voice:

"I think it's a shame, some of the pictur's a body sees in the winders. They say there's a
law ag'inst them things; and if there is, I don't understand why the police don't take up them
that paints 'em. I hear 182 tell, since I been here, that there's women that goes to have pictur's
took from them that way by men painters." The point seemed aimed at March, as if he were personally
responsible for the scandal, and it fell with a silencing effect for the moment. Nobody seemed
willing to take it up, and Mrs. Dryfoos went on, with an old woman's severity: "I say they
ought to be all tarred and feathered and rode on a rail. They'd be drummed out of town in Moffitt."

Miss Mela said, with a crowing laugh: "I should think they would! And they wouldn't anybody
go low neck to the opera-house there, either--not low neck the way they do here, anyway."

"And that pack of worthless hussies," her mother resumed, "that come out on the stage, and
begun to kick"

"Laws, mother!" the girl shouted, "I thought you said you had your eyes shut!"

All but these two simpler creatures were abashed at the indecorum of suggesting in words the
commonplaces of the theatre and of art.

"Well, I did, Mely, as soon as I could believe my eyes. I don't know what they're doin' in
all their churches, to let such things go on," said the old woman. "It's a sin and a shame,
I think. Don't you, Coonrod?"

A ring at the door cut short whatever answer he was about to deliver.

"If it's going to be company, Coonrod," said his mother, making an effort to rise, "I reckon
I better go up-stairs."

"It's Mr. Fulkerson, I guess," said Conrad. "He thought he might come"; and at the mention
of this light spirit Mrs. Dryfoos sank contentedly back in her chair, and a relaxation of their
painful tension seemed to pass through the whole company. Conrad went to the door himself (the
serving-man tentatively, appeared some minutes later) and let in Fulkerson's cheerful voice
before his cheerful person.

"Ah, how dye do, Conrad? Brought our friend, Mr. Beaton, with me," those within heard him say;
and then, after a sound of putting off overcoats, they saw him fill the doorway, with his feet
set square and his arms akimbo.

IX.

"Ah! hello! hello!" Fulkerson said, in recognition of the Marches. "Regular gathering of the
clans. How are you, Mrs. Dryfoos? How do you do, Mrs. Mandel, Miss Christine, Mela, Aunt Hitty,
and all the folks? How you wuz?" He shook hands gayly all round, and took a chair next the
old lady, whose hand he kept in his own, and left Conrad to introduce Beaton. But he would
not let the shadow of Beaton's solemnity fall upon the company. He began to joke with Mrs.
Dryfoos, and to match rheumatisms with her, and he included all the ladies in the range of
appropriate pleasantries. "I've brought Mr. Beaton along to-night, and I want you to make him
feel at home, like you do me, Mrs. Dryfoos. He hasn't got any rheumatism to speak of; but his
parents live in Syracuse, and he's a kind of an orphan, and we've just adopted him down at
the office. When you going to bring the young ladies down there, Mrs. Mandel, for a champagne
lunch? I will have some hydro-Mela, and Christine it, heigh? How's that for a little starter?
We dropped in at your place a moment, Mrs. March, and gave the young folks a few pointers about
their studies. My goodness! it does me good to see a boy like that of yours; business, from
the word go; and your girl just scoops my youthful affections. She's a beauty, and I guess
she's good, too. Well, well, what a world it is! Miss Christine, won't you show Mr. Beaton
that seal ring of yours? He knows about such things, and I brought him here to see it as much
as anything. It's an intaglio I brought from the other side," he explained to Mrs. March, "and
I guess you'll like to look at it. Tried to give it to the Dryfoos family, and when I couldn't,
I sold it to 'em. Bound to see it on Miss Christine's hand somehow! Hold on! Let him see it
where it belongs, first!"

He arrested the girl in the motion she made to take off the ring, and let her have the pleasure
of showing her hand to the company with the ring on it. Then he left her to hear the painter's
words about it, which he continued to deliver dissyllabically as he stood with her under a
gas-jet, twisting his elastic figure and bending his head over the ring.

"Well, Mely, child," Fulkerson went on, with an open travesty of her mother's habitual address,
"and how are you getting along? Mrs. Mandel hold you up to the proprieties pretty strictly?
Well, that's right. You know you'd be roaming all over the pasture if she didn't."

The girl gurgled out her pleasure in his funning, and everybody took him. on his own ground
of privileged character. He brought them all together in their friendliness for himself, and
before the evening was over he had inspired Mrs. Mandel to have them served with coffee, and
had made both the girls feel that they had figured brilliantly in society, and that two young
men had been devoted to them.

"Oh, I think he's just as lovely as he can live!" said Mela, as she stood a moment with her
sister on the scene of her triumph, where the others had left them after the departure of their
guests.

"Who?" asked Christine, deeply. As she glanced down at her ring, her eyes burned with a softened
fire.

She had allowed Beaton to change it himself from the finger where she had worn it to the finger
on which he said she ought to wear it. She did not know whether it was right to let him, but
she was glad she had done it.

"Who? Mr. Fulkerson, goosie-poosie! Not that old stuckup Mr. Beaton of yours!"

"He is proud," assented Christine, with a throb of exultation.

Beaton and Fulkerson went to the Elevated station with the Marches; but the painter said he
was going to walk home, and Fulkerson let him go alone.

"One way is enough for me," he explained. "When I walk up, I don't walk down. Bye-bye, my son!"
He began talking about Beaton to the Marches as they climbed the station stairs together. "That
fellow puzzles me. I don't know anybody that I have such a desire to kick, and at the same
time that I want to flatter up so much. Affect you that way?" he asked of March.

"Well, as far as the kicking goes, yes."

"And how is it with you, Mrs. March?"

"Oh, I want to flatter him up."

"No; really? Why? Hold on! I've got the change."

Fulkerson pushed March away from the ticket-office window; and made them his guests, with the
inexorable American hospitality, for the ride down-town. "Three!" he said to the ticket-seller;
and, when he had walked them before him out on the platform and dropped his tickets into the
urn, he persisted in his inquiry, "Why?"

"Why, because you always want to flatter conceited people, don't you?" Mrs. March answered,
with a laugh.

"Do you? Yes, I guess you do. You think Beaton is conceited?"

"Well, slightly, Mr. Fulkerson."

"I guess you're partly right," said Fulkerson, with a sigh, so unaccountable in its connection
that they all laughed.

"An ideal 'busted'?" March suggested.

"No, not that, exactly," said Fulkerson. "But I had a notion maybe Beaton wasn't conceited
all the time."

"Oh!" Mrs. March exulted, "nobody could be so conceited all the time as Mr. Beaton is most
of the time. He must have moments of the direst modesty, when he'd be quite flattery-proof."

"Yes, that's what I mean. I guess that's what makes me want to kick him. He's left compliments
on my hands that no decent man would."

"Oh! that's tragical," said March.

"Mr. Fulkerson," Mrs. March began, with change of subject in her voice, "who is Mrs. Mandel?"

"Who? What do you think of her?" he rejoined. "I'll tell you about her when we get in the cars.
Look at that thing! Ain't it beautiful?"

They leaned over the track and looked up at the next station, where the train, just starting,
throbbed out the flame-shot steam into the white moonlight.

"The most beautiful thing in New York--the one always and certainly beautiful thing here,"
said March; and his wife sighed, "Yes, yes." She clung to him, and remained rapt by the sight
till the train drew near, and then pulled him back in a panic.

"Well, there ain't really much to tell about her," Fulkerson resumed when they were seated
in the car. "She's an invention of mine."

"Of yours?" cried Mrs. March.

"Of course!" exclaimed her husband.

"Yes--at least in her present capacity. She sent me a story for the syndicate, back in July
some time, along about the time I first met old Dryfoos here. It was a little too long for
my purpose, and I thought I could explain better how I wanted it cut in a call than I could
in a letter. She gave a Brooklyn address, and I went to see her. I found her," said Fulkerson,
with a vague defiance, "a perfect lady. She was living with an aunt over there; and she had
seen better days, when she was a girl, and worse ones afterward. I don't mean to say her husband
was a bad fellow; I guess he was pretty good; he was her music-teacher; she met him in Germany,
and they got married there, and got through her property before they came over here. Well,
she didn't strike me like a person that could make much headway in literature. Her story was
well enough, but it hadn't much sand in it; kind of-well, academic, you know. I told her so,
and she understood, and cried a little; but she did the best she could with the thing, and
I took it and syndicated it. She kind of stuck in my mind, and the first time I went to see
the Dryfooses they were stopping at a sort of family hotel then till they could find a house--"
Fulkerson broke off altogether, and said, "I don't know as I know just how the Dryfooses struck
you, Mrs. March?"

"Can't you imagine?" she answered, with a kindly, smile.

"Yes; but I don't believe I could guess how they would have struck you last summer when I first
saw them. My! oh my! there was the native earth for you. Mely is a pretty wild colt now, but
you ought to have seen her before she was broken to harness.

"And Christine? Ever see that black leopard they got up there in the Central Park? That was
Christine. Well, I saw what they wanted. They all saw it--nobody is a fool in all directions,
and the Dryfooses are in their right senses a good deal of the time. Well, to cut a long story
short, I got Mrs. Mandel to take 'em in hand--the old lady as well as the girls. She was a
born lady, and always lived like one till she saw Mandel; and that something academic that
killed her for a writer was just the very thing for them. She knows the world well enough to
know just how much polish they can take on, and she don't try to put on a bit more. See?"

"Yes, I can see," said Mrs. March.

"Well, she took hold at once, as ready as a hospital-trained nurse; and there ain't anything
readier on this planet. She runs the whole concern, socially and economically, takes all the
care of housekeeping off the old lady's hands, and goes round with the girls. By-the-bye, I'm
going to take my meals at your widow's, March, and Conrad's going to have his lunch there.
I'm sick of browsing about."

"Mr. March's widow?" said his wife, looking at him with provisional severity.

"I have no widow, Isabel," he said, "and never expect to have, till I leave you in the enjoyment
of my life-insurance. I suppose Fulkerson means the lady with the daughter who wanted to take
us to board."

"Oh yes. How are they getting on, I do wonder?" Mrs. March asked of Fulkerson.

"Well, they've got one family to board; but it's a small one. I guess they'll pull through.
They didn't want to take any day boarders at first, the widow said; I guess they have had to
come to it."

"Poor things!" sighed Mrs. March. "I hope they'll go back to the country."

"Well, I don't know. When you've once tasted New York--You wouldn't go back to Boston, would you?"

"Instantly."

Fulkerson laughed out a tolerant incredulity.

X

Beaton lit his pipe when he found himself in his room, and sat down before the dull fire in
his grate to think. It struck him there was a dull fire in his heart a great deal like it;
and he worked out a fanciful analogy with the coals, still alive, and the ashes creeping over
them, and the dead clay and cinders. He felt sick of himself, sick of his life and of all his
works. He was angry with Fulkerson for having got him into that art department of his, for
having bought him up; and he was bitter at fate because he had been obliged to use the money
to pay some pressing debts, and had not been able to return the check his father had sent him.
He pitied his poor old father; he ached with compassion for him; and he set his teeth and snarled
with contempt through them for his own baseness. This was the kind of world it was; but he
washed his hands of it. The fault was in human nature, and he reflected with pride that he
had at least not invented human nature; he had not sunk so low as that yet. The notion amused
him; he thought he might get a Satanic epigram out of it some way. But in the mean time that
girl, that wild animal, she kept visibly, tangibly before him; if he put out his hand he might
touch hers, he might pass his arm round her waist. In Paris, in a set he knew there, what an
effect she would be with that look of hers, and that beauty, all out of drawing! They would
recognize the flame quality in her. He imagined a joke about her being a fiery spirit, or nymph,
naiad, whatever, from one of her native gas-wells. He began to sketch on a bit of paper from
the table at his elbow vague lines that veiled and revealed a level, dismal landscape, and
a vast flame against an empty sky, and a shape out of the flame that took on a likeness and
floated detached from it. The sketch ran up the left side of the sheet and stretched across
it. Beaton laughed out. Pretty good to let Fulkerson have that for the cover of his first number!
In black and red it would be effective; it would catch the eye from the news-stands. He made
a motion to throw it on the fire, but held it back and slid it into the table-drawer, and smoked
on. He saw the dummy with the other sketch in the open drawer which he had brought away from
Fulkerson's in the morning and slipped in there, and he took it out and looked at it. He made
some criticisms in line with his pencil on it, correcting the drawing here and there, and then
he respected it a little more, though he still smiled at the feminine quality--a young lady
quality.

In spite of his experience the night he called upon the Leightons, Beaton could not believe
that Alma no longer cared for him. She played at having forgotten him admirably, but he knew
that a few months before she had been very mindful of him. He knew he had neglected them since
they came to New York, where he had led them to expect interest, if not attention; but he was
used to neglecting people, and he was somewhat less used to being punished for it--punished
and forgiven. He felt that Alma had punished him so thoroughly that she ought to have been
satisfied with her work and to have forgiven him in her heart afterward. He bore no resentment
after the first tingling moments were-past; he rather admired her for it; and he would have
been ready to go back half an hour later and accept pardon and be on the footing of last summer
again. Even now he debated with himself whether it was too late to call; but, decidedly, a
quarter to ten seemed late. The next day he determined never to call upon the Leightons again;
but he had no reason for this; it merely came into a transitory scheme of conduct, of retirement
from the society of women altogether; and after dinner he went round to see them.

He asked for the ladies, and they all three received him, Alma not without a surprise that
intimated itself to him, and her mother with no appreciable relenting; Miss Woodburn, with
the needlework which she found easier to be voluble over than a book, expressed in her welcome
a neutrality both cordial to Beaton and loyal to Alma.

"Is it snowing outdo's?" she asked, briskly, after the greetings were transacted. "Mah goodness!"
she said, in answer to his apparent surprise at the question. "Ah mahght as well have stayed
in the Soath, for all the winter Ah have seen in New York yet."

"We don't often have snow much before New-Year's," said Beaton.

"Miss Woodburn is wild for a real Northern winter," Mrs. Leighton explained.

"The othah naght Ah woke up and looked oat of the window and saw all the roofs covered with
snow, and it turned oat to be nothing but moonlaght. Ah was never so disappointed in mah lahfe,"
said Miss Woodburn.

"If you'll come to St. Barnaby next summer, you shall have all the winter you want," said Alma.

"I can't let you slander St. Barnaby in that way," said Beaton, with the air of wishing to
be understood as meaning more than he said.

"Yes?" returned Alma, coolly. "I didn't know you were so fond of the climate."

"I never think of it as a climate. It's a landscape. It doesn't matter whether it's hot or cold."

"With the thermometer twenty below, you'd find that it mattered," Alma persisted.

"Is that the way you feel about St. Barnaby, too, Mrs. Leighton?" Beaton asked, with affected
desolation.

"I shall be glad enough to go back in the summer," Mrs. Leighton conceded.

"And I should be glad to go now," said Beaton, looking at Alma. He had the dummy of 'Every
Other Week' in his hand, and he saw Alma's eyes wandering toward it whenever he glanced at
her. "I should be glad to go anywhere to get out of a job I've undertaken," he continued, to
Mrs. Leighton. "They're going to start some sort of a new illustrated magazine, and they've
got me in for their art department. I'm not fit for it; I'd like to run away. Don't you want
to advise me a little, Mrs. Leighton? You know how much I value your taste, and I'd like to
have you look at the design for the cover of the first number: they're going to have a different
one for every number. I don't know whether you'll agree with me, but I think this is rather nice."

He faced the dummy round, and then laid it on the table before Mrs. Leighton, pushing some
of her work aside to make room for it and standing over her while she bent forward to look at it.

Alma kept her place, away from the table.

"Mah goodness! Ho' exciting!" said Miss Woodburn. "May anybody look?"

"Everybody," said Beaton.

"Well, isn't it perfectly choming!" Miss Woodburn exclaimed. "Come and look at this, Miss Leighton,"
she called to Alma, who reluctantly approached.

"What lines are these?" Mrs. Leighton asked, pointing to Beaton's pencil scratches.

"They're suggestions of modifications," he replied.

"I don't think they improve it much. What do you think, Alma?"

"Oh, I don't know," said the girl, constraining her voice to an effect of indifference and
glancing carelessly down at the sketch. "The design might be improved; but I don't think those
suggestions would do it."

"They're mine," said Beaton, fixing his eyes upon her with a beautiful sad dreaminess that
he knew he could put into them; he spoke with a dreamy remoteness of tone--his wind-harp stop,
Wetmore called it.

"I supposed so," said Alma, calmly.

"Oh, mah goodness!" cried Miss Woodburn. "Is that the way you awtusts talk to each othah? Well,
Ah'm glad Ah'm not an awtust--unless I could do all the talking."

"Artists cannot tell a fib," Alma said, "or even act one," and she laughed in Beaton's upturned
face.

He did not unbend his dreamy gaze. "You're quite right. The suggestions are stupid."

Alma turned to Miss Woodburn: "You hear? Even when we speak of our own work."

"Ah nevah hoad anything lahke it!"

"And the design itself?" Beaton persisted.

"Oh, I'm not an art editor," Alma answered, with a laugh of exultant evasion.

A tall, dark, grave-looking man of fifty, with a swarthy face and iron-gray mustache and imperial
and goatee, entered the room. Beaton knew the type; he had been through Virginia sketching
for one of the illustrated papers, and he had seen such men in Richmond. Miss Woodburn hardly
needed to say, "May Ah introduce you to mah fathaw, Co'nel Woodburn, Mr. Beaton?"

The men shook hands, and Colonel Woodburn said, in that soft, gentle, slow Southern voice without
our Northern contractions: "I am very glad to meet you, sir; happy to make yo' acquaintance.
Do not move, madam," he said to Mrs. Leighton, who made a deprecatory motion to let him pass
to the chair beyond her; "I can find my way." He bowed a bulk that did not lend itself readily
to the devotion, and picked up the ball of yarn she had let drop out of her lap in half rising.
"Yo' worsteds, madam."

"Yarn, yarn, Colonel Woodburn!" Alma shouted. "You're quite incorrigible. A spade is a spade!"

"But sometimes it is a trump, my dear young lady," said the Colonel, with unabated gallantry;
"and when yo' mothah uses yarn, it is worsteds. But I respect worsteds even under the name
of yarn: our ladies--my own mothah and sistahs--had to knit the socks we wore--all we could
get in the woe."

"Yes, and aftah the woe," his daughter put in. "The knitting has not stopped yet in some places.
Have you been much in the Soath, Mr. Beaton?"

Beaton explained just how much.

"Well, sir," said the Colonel, "then you have seen a country making gigantic struggles to retrieve
its losses, sir. The South is advancing with enormous strides, sir."

"Too fast for some of us to keep up," said Miss Woodburn, in an audible aside. "The pace in
Charlottesboag is pofectly killing, and we had to drop oat into a slow place like New York."

"The progress in the South is material now," said the Colonel; "and those of us whose interests
are in another direction find ourselves--isolated --isolated, sir. The intellectual centres
are still in the No'th, sir; the great cities draw the mental activity of the country to them,
sir. Necessarily New York is the metropolis."

"Oh, everything comes here," said Beaton, impatient of the elder's ponderosity. Another sort
of man would have sympathized with the Southerner's willingness to talk of himself, and led
him on to speak of his plans and ideals. But the sort of man that Beaton was could not do this;
he put up the dummy into the wrapper he had let drop on the floor beside him, and tied it round
with string while Colonel Woodburn was talking. He got to his feet with the words he spoke
and offered Mrs. Leighton his hand.

"Must you go?" she asked, in surprise.

"I am on my way to a reception," he said. She had noticed that he was in evening dress; and
now she felt the vague hurt that people invited nowhere feel in the presence of those who are
going somewhere. She did not feel it for herself, but for her daughter; and she knew Alma would
not have let her feel it if she could have prevented it. But Alma had left the room for a moment,
and she tacitly indulged this sense of injury in her behalf.

"Please say good-night to Miss Leighton for me," Beaton continued. He bowed to Miss Woodburn,
"Goodnight, Miss Woodburn," and to her father, bluntly, "Goodnight."

"Good-night, sir," said the Colonel, with a sort of severe suavity.

"Oh, isn't he choming!" Miss Woodburn whispered to Mrs. Leighton when Beaton left the room.

Alma spoke to him in the hall without. "You knew that was my design, Mr. Beaton. Why did you
bring it?"

"Why?" He looked at her in gloomy hesitation.

Then he said: "You know why. I wished to talk it over with you, to serve you, please you, get
back your good opinion. But I've done neither the one nor the other; I've made a mess of the
whole thing."

Alma interrupted him. "Has it been accepted?"

"It will be accepted, if you will let it."

"Let it?" she laughed. "I shall be delighted." She saw him swayed a little toward her. "It's
a matter of business, isn't it?"

"Purely. Good-night."

When Alma returned to the room, Colonel Woodburn was saying to Mrs. Leighton: "I do not contend
that it is impossible, madam, but it is very difficult in a thoroughly commercialized society,
like yours, to have the feelings of a gentleman. How can a business man, whose prosperity,
whose earthly salvation, necessarily lies in the adversity of some one else, be delicate and
chivalrous, or even honest? If we could have had time to perfect our system at the South, to
eliminate what was evil and develop what was good in it, we should have had a perfect system.
But the virus of commercialism was in us, too; it forbade us to make the best of a divine institution,
and tempted us to make the worst. Now the curse is on the whole country; the dollar is the
measure of every value, the stamp of every success. What does not sell is a failure; and what
sells succeeds."

"The hobby is oat, mah deah," said Miss Woodburn, in an audible aside to Alma.

"Were you speaking of me, Colonel Woodburn?" Alma asked.

"Surely not, my dear young lady."

"But he's been saying that awtusts are just as greedy aboat money as anybody," said his daughter.

"The law of commercialism is on everything in a commercial society," the Colonel explained,
softening the tone in which his convictions were presented. "The final reward of art is money,
and not the pleasure of creating."

"Perhaps they would be willing to take it all oat in that if othah people would let them pay
their bills in the pleasure of creating," his daughter teased.

"They are helpless, like all the rest," said her father, with the same deference to her as
to other women. "I do not blame them."

"Oh, mah goodness! Didn't you say, sir, that Mr. Beaton had bad manners?"

Alma relieved a confusion which he seemed to feel in reference to her. "Bad manners? He has
no manners! That is, when he's himself. He has pretty good ones when he's somebody else."

Miss Woodburn began, "Oh, mah-" and then stopped herself. Alma's mother looked at her with
distressed question, but the girl seemed perfectly cool and contented; and she gave her mind
provisionally to a point suggested by Colonel Woodburn's talk.

"Still, I can't believe it was right to hold people in slavery, to whip them and sell them.
It never did seem right to me," she added, in apology for her extreme sentiments to the gentleness
of her adversary.

"I quite agree with you, madam," said the Colonel. "Those were the abuses of the institution.
But if we had not been vitiated on the one hand and threatened on the other by the spirit of
commercialism from the North--and from Europe, too--those abuses could have been eliminated,
and the institution developed in the direction of the mild patriarchalism of the divine intention."
The Colonel hitched his chair, which figured a hobby careering upon its hind legs, a little
toward Mrs. Leighton and the girls approached their heads and began to whisper; they fell deferentially
silent when the Colonel paused in his argument, and went on again when he went on.

At last they heard Mrs. Leighton saying, "And have you heard from the publishers about your
book yet?"

Then Miss Woodburn cut in, before her father could answer: "The coase of commercialism is on
that, too. They are trahing to fahnd oat whethah it will pay."

"And they are right-quite right," said the Colonel. "There is no longer any other criterion;
and even a work that attacks the system must be submitted to the tests of the system."

"The system won't accept destruction on any othah tomes," said Miss Woodburn, demurely.

XI.

At the reception, where two men in livery stood aside to let him pass up the outside steps
of the house, and two more helped him off with his overcoat indoors, and a fifth miscalled
his name into the drawing-room, the Syracuse stone-cutter's son met the niece of Mrs. Horn,
and began at once to tell her about his evening at the Dryfooses'. He was in very good spirits,
for so far as he could have been elated or depressed by his parting with Alma Leighton he had
been elated; she had not treated his impudence with the contempt that he felt it deserved;
she must still be fond of him; and the warm sense of this, by operation of an obscure but well-recognized
law of the masculine being, disposed him to be rather fond of Miss Vance. She was a slender
girl, whose semi-aesthetic dress flowed about her with an accentuation of her long forms, and
redeemed them from censure by the very frankness with which it confessed them; nobody could
have said that Margaret Vance was too tall. Her pretty little head, which she had an effect
of choosing to have little in the same spirit of judicious defiance, had a good deal of reading
in it; she was proud to know literary and artistic fashions as well as society fashions. She
liked being singled out by an exterior distinction so obvious as Beaton's, and she listened
with sympathetic interest to his account of those people. He gave their natural history reality
by drawing upon his own; he reconstructed their plebeian past from the experiences of his childhood
and his youth of the pre-Parisian period; and he had a pang of suicidal joy in insulting their
ignorance of the world.

"What different kinds of people you meet!" said the girl at last, with an envious sigh. Her
reading had enlarged the bounds of her imagination, if not her knowledge; the novels nowadays
dealt so much with very common people, and made them seem so very much more worth while than
the people one met.

She said something like this to Beaton. He answered: "You can meet the people I'm talking of
very easily, if you want to take the trouble. It's what they came to New York for. I fancy
it's the great ambition of their lives to be met."

"Oh yes," said Miss Vance, fashionably, and looked down; then she looked up and said, intellectually:
"Don't you think it's a great pity? How much better for them to have stayed where they were
and what they were!"

"Then you could never have had any chance of meeting them," said Beaton. "I don't suppose you
intend to go out to the gas country?"

"No," said Miss Vance, amused. "Not that I shouldn't like to go."

"What a daring spirit! You ought to be on the staff of 'Every Other Week,'" said Beaton.

"The staff-Every Other Week? What is it?"

"The missing link; the long-felt want of a tie between the Arts and the Dollars." Beaton gave
her a very picturesque, a very dramatic sketch of the theory, the purpose, and the personnel
of the new enterprise.

Miss Vance understood too little about business of any kind to know how it differed from other
enterprises of its sort. She thought it was delightful; she thought Beaton must be glad to
be part of it, though he had represented himself so bored, so injured, by Fulkerson's insisting
upon having him. "And is it a secret? Is it a thing not to be spoken of?"

"'Tutt' altro'! Fulkerson will be enraptured to have it spoken of in society. He would pay
any reasonable bill for the advertisement."

"What a delightful creature! Tell him it shall all be spent in charity."

"He would like that. He would get two paragraphs out of the fact, and your name would go into
the 'Literary Notes' of all the newspapers."

"Oh, but I shouldn't want my name used!" cried the girl, half horrified into fancying the situation
real.

"Then you'd better not say anything about 'Every Other Week'. Fulkerson is preternaturally
unscrupulous."

March began to think so too, at times. He was perpetually suggesting changes in the make-up
of the first number, with a view to its greater vividness of effect. One day he came and said:
"This thing isn't going to have any sort of get up and howl about it, unless you have a paper
in the first number going for Bevans's novels. Better get Maxwell to do it."

"Why, I thought you liked Bevans's novels?"

"So I did; but where the good of 'Every Other Week' is concerned I am a Roman father. The popular
gag is to abuse Bevans, and Maxwell is the man to do it. There hasn't been a new magazine started
for the last three years that hasn't had an article from Maxwell in its first number cutting
Bevans all to pieces. If people don't see it, they'll think 'Every Other Week' is some old thing."

March did not know whether Fulkerson was joking or not. He suggested, "Perhaps they'll think
it's an old thing if they do see it."

"Well, get somebody else, then; or else get Maxwell to write under an assumed name. Or--I forgot!
He'll be anonymous under our system, anyway. Now there ain't a more popular racket for us to
work in that first number than a good, swinging attack on Bevans. People read his books and
quarrel over 'em, and the critics are all against him, and a regular flaying, with salt and
vinegar rubbed in afterward, will tell more with people who like good old-fashioned fiction
than anything else. I like Bevans's things, but, dad burn it! when it comes to that first number,
I'd offer up anybody."

"What an immoral little wretch you are, Fulkerson!" said March, with a laugh.

Fulkerson appeared not to be very strenuous about the attack on the novelist. "Say!" he called
out, gayly, "what should you think of a paper defending the late lamented system of slavery'?"

"What do you mean, Fulkerson?" asked March, with a puzzled smile.

Fulkerson braced his knees against his desk, and pushed himself back, but kept his balance
to the eye by canting his hat sharply forward. "There's an old cock over there at the widow's
that's written a book to prove that slavery was and is the only solution of the labor problem.
He's a Southerner."

"I should imagine," March assented.

"He's got it on the brain that if the South could have been let alone by the commercial spirit
and the pseudophilanthropy of the North, it would have worked out slavery into a perfectly
ideal condition for the laborer, in which he would have been insured against want, and protected
in all his personal rights by the state. He read the introduction to me last night. I didn't
catch on to all the points--his daughter's an awfully pretty girl, and I was carrying that
fact in my mind all the time, too, you know--but that's about the gist of it."

"Seems to regard it as a lost opportunity?" said March.

"Exactly! What a mighty catchy title, Neigh? Look well on the title-page."

"Well written?"

"I reckon so; I don't know. The Colonel read it mighty eloquently."

"It mightn't be such bad business," said March, in a muse. "Could you get me a sight of it
without committing yourself?"

"If the Colonel hasn't sent it off to another publisher this morning. He just got it back with
thanks yesterday. He likes to keep it travelling."

"Well, try it. I've a notion it might be a curious thing."

"Look here, March," said Fulkerson, with the effect of taking a fresh hold; "I wish you could
let me have one of those New York things of yours for the first number. After all, that's going
to be the great card."

"I couldn't, Fulkerson; I couldn't, really. I want to philosophize the material, and I'm too
new to it all yet. I don't want to do merely superficial sketches."

"Of course! Of course! I understand that. Well, I don't want to hurry you. Seen that old fellow
of yours yet? I think we ought to have that translation in the first number; don't you? We
want to give 'em a notion of what we're going to do in that line."

"Yes," said March; "and I was going out to look up Lindau this morning. I've inquired at Maroni's,
and he hasn't been there for several days. I've some idea perhaps he's sick. But they gave
me his address, and I'm going to see."

"Well, that's right. We want the first number to be the keynote in every way."

March shook his head. "You can't make it so. The first number is bound to be a failure always,
as far as the representative character goes. It's invariably the case. Look at the first numbers
of all the things you've seen started. They're experimental, almost amateurish, and necessarily
so, not only because the men that are making them up are comparatively inexperienced like ourselves,
but because the material sent them to deal with is more or less consciously tentative. People
send their adventurous things to a new periodical because the whole thing is an adventure.
I've noticed that quality in all the volunteer contributions; it's in the articles that have
been done to order even. No; I've about made up my mind that if we can get one good striking
paper into the first number that will take people's minds off the others, we shall be doing
all we can possible hope for. I should like," March added, less seriously, "to make up three
numbers ahead, and publish the third one first."

Fulkerson dropped forward and struck his fist on the desk. "It's a first-rate idea. Why not do it?"

March laughed. "Fulkerson, I don't believe there's any quackish thing you wouldn't do in this
cause. From time to time I'm thoroughly ashamed of being connected with such a charlatan."

Fulkerson struck his hat sharply backward. "Ah, dad burn it! To give that thing the right kind
of start I'd walk up and down Broadway between two boards, with the title-page of Every Other
Week facsimiled on one and my name and address on the--"

He jumped to his feet and shouted, "March, I'll do it!"

"What?"

"I'll hire a lot of fellows to make mud-turtles of themselves, and I'll have a lot of big facsimiles
of the title-page, and I'll paint the town red!"

March looked aghast at him. "Oh, come, now, Fulkerson!"

"I mean it. I was in London when a new man had taken hold of the old Cornhill, and they were
trying to boom it, and they had a procession of these mudturtles that reached from Charing
Cross to Temple Bar. Cornhill Magazine. Sixpence. Not a dull page in it.' I said to myself
then that it was the livest thing I ever saw. I respected the man that did that thing from
the bottom of my heart. I wonder I ever forgot it. But it shows what a shaky thing the human
mind is at its best."

"You infamous mountebank!", said March, with great amusement at Fulkerson's access; "you call
that congeries of advertising instinct of yours the human mind at its best? Come, don't be
so diffident, Fulkerson. Well, I'm off to find Lindau, and when I come back I hope Mr. Dryfoos
will have you under control. I don't suppose you'll be quite sane again till after the first
number is out. Perhaps public opinion will sober you then."

"Confound it, March! How do you think they will take it? I swear I'm getting so nervous I don't
know half the time which end of me is up. I believe if we don't get that thing out by the first
of February it 'll be the death of me."

"Couldn't wait till Washington's Birthday? I was thinking it would give the day a kind of distinction,
and strike the public imagination, if--"

"No, I'll be dogged if I could!" Fulkerson lapsed more and more into the parlance of his early
life in this season of strong excitement. "I believe if Beaton lags any on the art leg I'll
kill him."

"Well, I shouldn't mind your killing Beaton," said March, tranquilly, as he went out.

He went over to Third Avenue and took the Elevated down to Chatham Square. He found the variety
of people in the car as unfailingly entertaining as ever. He rather preferred the East Side
to the West Side lines, because they offered more nationalities, conditions, and characters
to his inspection. They draw not only from the up-town American region, but from all the vast
hive of populations swarming between them and the East River. He had found that, according
to the hour, American husbands going to and from business, and American wives going to and
from shopping, prevailed on the Sixth Avenue road, and that the most picturesque admixture
to these familiar aspects of human nature were the brilliant eyes and complexions of the American
Hebrews, who otherwise contributed to the effect of well-clad comfort and citizen-self-satisfaction
of the crowd. Now and then he had found himself in a car mostly filled with Neapolitans from
the constructions far up the line, where he had read how they are worked and fed and housed
like beasts; and listening to the jargon of their unintelligible dialect, he had occasion for
pensive question within himself as to what notion these poor animals formed of a free republic
from their experience of life under its conditions; and whether they found them practically
very different from those of the immemorial brigandage and enforced complicity with rapine
under which they had been born. But, after all, this was an infrequent effect, however massive,
of travel on the West Side, whereas the East offered him continual entertainment in like sort.
The sort was never quite so squalid. For short distances the lowest poverty, the hardest pressed
labor, must walk; but March never entered a car without encountering some interesting shape
of shabby adversity, which was almost always adversity of foreign birth. New York is still
popularly supposed to be in the control of the Irish, but March noticed in these East Side
travels of his what must strike every observer returning to the city after a prolonged absence:
the numerical subordination of the dominant race. If they do not outvote them, the people of
Germanic, of Slavonic, of Pelasgic, of Mongolian stock outnumber the prepotent Celts; and March
seldom found his speculation centred upon one of these. The small eyes, the high cheeks, the
broad noses, the puff lips, the bare, cue-filleted skulls, of Russians, Poles, Czechs, Chinese;
the furtive glitter of Italians; the blonde dulness of Germans; the cold quiet of Scandinavians--fire
under ice--were aspects that he identified, and that gave him abundant suggestion for the personal
histories he constructed, and for the more public-spirited reveries in which he dealt with
the future economy of our heterogeneous commonwealth. It must be owned that he did not take
much trouble about this; what these poor people were thinking, hoping, fearing, enjoying, suffering;
just where and how they lived; who and what they individually were--these were the matters
of his waking dreams as he stared hard at them, while the train raced farther into the gay
ugliness--the shapeless, graceful, reckless picturesqueness of the Bowery.

There were certain signs, certain facades, certain audacities of the prevailing hideousness
that always amused him in that uproar to the eye which the strident forms and colors made.
He was interested in the insolence with which the railway had drawn its erasing line across
the Corinthian front of an old theatre, almost grazing its fluted pillars, and flouting its
dishonored pediment. The colossal effigies of the fat women and the tuft-headed Circassian
girls of cheap museums; the vistas of shabby cross streets; the survival of an old hip-roofed
house here and there at their angles; the Swiss chalet, histrionic decorativeness of the stations
in prospect or retrospect; the vagaries of the lines that narrowed together or stretched apart
according to the width of the avenue, but always in wanton disregard of the life that dwelt,
and bought and sold, and rejoiced or sorrowed, and clattered or crawled, around, below, above--were
features of the frantic panorama that perpetually touched his sense of humor and moved his
sympathy. Accident and then exigency seemed the forces at work to this extraordinary effect;
the play of energies as free and planless as those that force the forest from the soil to the
sky; and then the fierce struggle for survival, with the stronger life persisting over the
deformity, the mutilation, the destruction, the decay of the weaker. The whole at moments seemed
to him lawless, godless; the absence of intelligent, comprehensive purpose in the huge disorder,
and the violent struggle to subordinate the result to the greater good, penetrated with its
dumb appeal the consciousness of a man who had always been too self-enwrapped to perceive the
chaos to which the individual selfishness must always lead.

But there was still nothing definite, nothing better than a vague discomfort, however poignant,
in his half recognition of such facts; and he descended the station stairs at Chatham Square
with a sense of the neglected opportunities of painters in that locality. He said to himself
that if one of those fellows were to see in Naples that turmoil of cars, trucks, and teams
of every sort, intershot with foot-passengers going and coming to and from the crowded pavements,
under the web of the railroad tracks overhead, and amid the spectacular approach of the streets
that open into the square, he would have it down in his sketch-book at once. He decided simultaneously
that his own local studies must be illustrated, and that he must come with the artist and show
him just which bits to do, not knowing that the two arts can never approach the same material
from the same point. He thought he would particularly like his illustrator to render the Dickensy,
cockneyish quality of the, shabby-genteel ballad-seller of whom he stopped to ask his way to
the street where Lindau lived, and whom he instantly perceived to be, with his stock in trade,
the sufficient object of an entire study by himself. He had his ballads strung singly upon
a cord against the house wall, and held down in piles on the pavement with stones and blocks
of wood. Their control in this way intimated a volatility which was not perceptible in their
sentiment. They were mostly tragical or doleful: some of them dealt with the wrongs of the
working-man; others appealed to a gay experience of the high seas; but vastly the greater part
to memories and associations of an Irish origin; some still uttered the poetry of plantation
life in the artless accents of the end--man. Where they trusted themselves, with syntax that
yielded promptly to any exigency of rhythmic art, to the ordinary American speech, it was to
strike directly for the affections, to celebrate the domestic ties, and, above all, to embalm
the memories of angel and martyr mothers whose dissipated sons deplored their sufferings too
late. March thought this not at all a bad thing in them; he smiled in patronage of their simple
pathos; he paid the tribute of a laugh when the poet turned, as he sometimes did, from his
conception of angel and martyr motherhood, and portrayed the mother in her more familiar phases
of virtue and duty, with the retributive shingle or slipper in her hand. He bought a pocketful
of this literature, popular in a sense which the most successful book can never be, and enlisted
the ballad vendor so deeply in the effort to direct him to Lindau's dwelling by the best way
that he neglected another customer, till a sarcasm on his absent-mindedness stung hint to retort,
"I'm a-trying to answer a gentleman a civil question; that's where the absent-minded comes in."

It seemed for some reason to be a day of leisure with the Chinese dwellers in Mott Street,
which March had been advised to take first. They stood about the tops of basement stairs, and
walked two and two along the dirty pavement, with their little hands tucked into their sleeves
across their breasts, aloof in immaculate cleanliness from the filth around them, and scrutinizing
the scene with that cynical sneer of faint surprise to which all aspects of our civilization
seem to move their superiority. Their numbers gave character to the street, and rendered not
them, but what was foreign to them, strange there; so that March had a sense of missionary
quality in the old Catholic church, built long before their incursion was dreamed of. It seemed
to have come to them there, and he fancied in the statued saint that looked down from its facade
something not so much tolerant as tolerated, something propitiatory, almost deprecatory. It
was a fancy, of course; the street was sufficiently peopled with Christian children, at any
rate, swarming and shrieking at their games; and presently a Christian mother appeared, pushed
along by two policemen on a handcart, with a gelatinous tremor over the paving and a gelatinous
jouncing at the curbstones. She lay with her face to the sky, sending up an inarticulate lamentation;
but the indifference of the officers forbade the notion of tragedy in her case. She was perhaps
a local celebrity; the children left off their games, and ran gayly trooping after her; even
the young fellow and young girl exchanging playful blows in a robust flirtation at the corner
of a liquor store suspended their scuffle with a pleased interest as she passed. March understood
the unwillingness of the poor to leave the worst conditions in the city for comfort and plenty
in the country when he reflected upon this dramatic incident, one of many no doubt which daily
occur to entertain them in such streets. A small town could rarely offer anything comparable
to it, and the country never. He said that if life appeared so hopeless to him as it must to
the dwellers in that neighborhood he should not himself be willing to quit its distractions,
its alleviations, for the vague promise of unknown good in the distance somewhere.

But what charm could such a man as Lindau find in such a place? It could not be that he lived
there because he was too poor to live elsewhere: with a shutting of the heart, March refused
to believe this as he looked round on the abounding evidences of misery, and guiltily remembered
his neglect of his old friend. Lindau could probably find as cheap a lodging in some decenter
part of the town; and, in fact, there was some amelioration of the prevailing squalor in the
quieter street which he turned into from Mott.

A woman with a tied-up face of toothache opened the door for him when he pulled, with a shiver
of foreboding, the bell-knob, from which a yard of rusty crape dangled. But it was not Lindau
who was dead, for the woman said he was at home, and sent March stumbling up the four or five
dark flights of stairs that led to his tenement. It was quite at the top of the house, and
when March obeyed the German-English "Komm!" that followed his knock, he found himself in a
kitchen where a meagre breakfast was scattered in stale fragments on the table before the stove.
The place was bare and cold; a half-empty beer bottle scarcely gave it a convivial air. On
the left from this kitchen was a room with a bed in it, which seemed also to be a cobbler's
shop: on the right, through a door that stood ajar, came the German-English voice again, saying
this time, "Hier!"

XII.

March pushed the door open into a room like that on the left, but with a writing-desk instead
of a cobbler's bench, and a bed, where Lindau sat propped up; with a coat over his shoulders
and a skull-cap on his head, reading a book, from which he lifted his eyes to stare blankly
over his spectacles at March. His hairy old breast showed through the night-shirt, which gaped
apart; the stump of his left arm lay upon the book to keep it open.

"Ah, my tear yo'ng friendt! Passil! Marge! Iss it you?" he called out, joyously, the next moment.

"Why, are you sick, Lindau?" March anxiously scanned his face in taking his hand.

Lindau laughed. "No; I'm all righdt. Only a lidtle lazy, and a lidtle eggonomigal. Idt's jeaper
to stay in pedt sometimes as to geep a fire a-goin' all the time. Don't wandt to gome too hardt
on the 'brafer Mann', you know:

     "Braver Mann, er schafft mir zu essen."

You remember? Heine? You readt Heine still? Who is your favorite boet now, Passil? You write
some boetry yourself yet? No? Well, I am gladt to zee you. Brush those baperss off of that
jair. Well, idt is goodt for zore eyess. How didt you findt where I lif?

"They told me at Maroni's," said March. He tried to keep his eyes on Lindau's face, and not
see the discomfort of the room, but he was aware of the shabby and frowsy bedding, the odor
of stale smoke, and the pipes and tobacco shreds mixed with the books and manuscripts strewn
over the leaf of the writing-desk. He laid down on the mass the pile of foreign magazines he
had brought under his arm. "They gave me another address first."

"Yes. I have chust gome here," said Lindau. "Idt is not very coy, Neigh?"

"It might be gayer," March admitted, with a smile. "Still," he added, soberly, "a good many
people seem to live in this part of the town. Apparently they die here, too, Lindau. There
is crape on your outside door. I didn't know but it was for you."

"Nodt this time," said Lindau, in the same humor. "Berhaps some other time. We geep the ondertakers
bratty puzy down here."

"Well," said March, "undertakers must live, even if the rest of us have to die to let them."
Lindau laughed, and March went on: "But I'm glad it isn't your funeral, Lindau. And you say
you're not sick, and so I don't see why we shouldn't come to business."

"Pusiness?" Lindau lifted his eyebrows. "You gome on pusiness?"

"And pleasure combined," said March, and he went on to explain the service he desired at Lindau's
hands.

The old man listened with serious attention, and with assenting nods that culminated in a spoken
expression of his willingness to undertake the translations. March waited with a sort of mechanical
expectation of his gratitude for the work put in his way, but nothing of the kind came from
Lindau, and March was left to say, "Well, everything is understood, then; and I don't know
that I need add that if you ever want any little advance on the work--"

"I will ask you," said Lindau, quietly, "and I thank you for that. But I can wait; I ton't
needt any money just at bresent." As if he saw some appeal for greater frankness in, March's
eye, he went on: "I tidn't gome here begause I was too boor to lif anywhere else, and I ton't
stay in pedt begause I couldn't haf a fire to geep warm if I wanted it. I'm nodt zo padt off
as Marmontel when he went to Paris. I'm a lidtle loaxurious, that is all. If I stay in pedt
it's zo I can fling money away on somethings else. Heigh?"

"But what are you living here for, Lindau?" March smiled at the irony lurking in Lindau's words.

"Well, you zee, I foundt I was begoming a lidtle too moch of an aristograt. I hadt a room oap
in Creenvidge Willage, among dose pig pugs over on the West Side, and I foundt"--Liudau's voice
lost its jesting quality, and his face darkened--"that I was beginning to forget the boor!"

"I should have thought," said March, with impartial interest, "that you might have seen poverty
enough, now and then, in Greenwich Village to remind you of its existence."

"Nodt like here," said Lindau. "Andt you must zee it all the dtime--zee it, hear it, smell
it, dtaste it--or you forget it. That is what I gome here for. I was begoming a ploated aristograt.
I thought I was nodt like these beople down here, when I gome down once to look aroundt; I
thought I must be somethings else, and zo I zaid I better take myself in time, and I gome here
among my brothers--the becears and the thiefs!" A noise made itself heard in the next room,
as if the door were furtively opened, and a faint sound of tiptoeing and of hands clawing on
a table.

"Thiefs!" Lindau repeated, with a shout. "Lidtle thiefs, that gabture your breakfast. Ah! ha!
ha!" A wild scurrying of feet, joyous cries and tittering, and a slamming door followed upon
his explosion, and he resumed in the silence: "Idt is the children cot pack from school. They
gome and steal what I leaf there on my daple. Idt's one of our lidtle chokes; we onderstand
one another; that's all righdt. Once the gobbler in the other room there he used to chase 'em;
he couldn't onderstand their lidtle tricks. Now dot goppler's teadt, and he ton't chase 'em
any more. He was a Bohemian. Gindt of grazy, I cuess."

"Well, it's a sociable existence," March suggested. "But perhaps if you let them have the things
without stealing--"

"Oh no, no! Most nodt mage them too gonceitedt. They mostn't go and feel themselfs petter than
those boor millionairss that hadt to steal their money."

March smiled indulgently at his old friend's violence. "Oh, there are fagots and fagots, you
know, Lindau; perhaps not all the millionaires are so guilty."

"Let us speak German!" cried Lindau, in his own tongue, pushing his book aside, and thrusting
his skullcap back from his forehead. "How much money can a man honestly earn without wronging
or oppressing some other man?"

"Well, if you'll let me answer in English," said March, "I should say about five thousand dollars
a year. I name that figure because it's my experience that I never could earn more; but the
experience of other men may be different, and if they tell me they can earn ten, or twenty,
or fifty thousand a year, I'm not prepared to say they can't do it."

Lindau hardly waited for his answer. "Not the most gifted man that ever lived, in the practice
of any art or science, and paid at the highest rate that exceptional genius could justly demand
from those who have worked for their money, could ever earn a million dollars. It is the landlords
and the merchant princes, the railroad kings and the coal barons (the oppressors to whom you
instinctively give the titles of tyrants)--it is these that make the millions, but no man earns
them. What artist, what physician, what scientist, what poet was ever a millionaire?"

"I can only think of the poet Rogers," said March, amused by Lindau's tirade. "But he was as
exceptional as the other Rogers, the martyr, who died with warm feet." Lindau had apparently
not understood his joke, and he went on, with the American ease of mind about everything: "But
you must allow, Lindau, that some of those fellows don't do so badly with their guilty gains.
Some of them give work to armies of poor people--"

Lindau furiously interrupted: "Yes, when they have gathered their millions together from the
hunger and cold and nakedness and ruin and despair of hundreds of thousands of other men, they
'give work' to the poor! They give work! They allow their helpless brothers to earn enough
to keep life in them! They give work! Who is it gives toil, and where will your rich men be
when once the poor shall refuse to give toil'? Why, you have come to give me work!"

March laughed outright. "Well, I'm not a millionaire, anyway, Lindau, and I hope you won't
make an example of me by refusing to give toil. I dare say the millionaires deserve it, but
I'd rather they wouldn't suffer in my person."

"No," returned the old man, mildly relaxing the fierce glare he had bent upon March. "No man
deserves to sufer at the hands of another. I lose myself when I think of the injustice in the
world. But I must not forget that I am like the worst of them."

"You might go up Fifth Avenue and live among the rich awhile, when you're in danger of that,"
suggested March. "At any rate," he added, by an impulse which he knew he could not justify
to his wife, "I wish you'd come some day and lunch with their emissary. I've been telling Mrs.
March about you, and I want her and the children to see you. Come over with these things and
report." He put his hand on the magazines as he rose.

"I will come," said Lindau, gently.

"Shall I give you your book?" asked March.

"No; I gidt oap bretty soon."

"And--and--can you dress yourself?"

"I vhistle, 'and one of those lidtle fellowss comess. We haf to dake gare of one another in
a blace like this. Idt iss nodt like the worldt," said Lindau, gloomily.

March thought he ought to cheer him up. "Oh, it isn't such a bad world, Lindau! After all,
the average of millionaires is small in it." He added, "And I don't believe there's an American
living that could look at that arm of yours and not wish to lend you a hand for the one you
gave us all." March felt this to be a fine turn, and his voice trembled slightly in saying it.

Lindau smiled grimly. "You think zo? I wouldn't moch like to drost 'em. I've driedt idt too
often." He began to speak German again fiercely: "Besides, they owe me nothing. Do you think
I knowingly gave my hand to save this oligarchy of traders and tricksters, this aristocracy
of railroad wreckers and stock gamblers and mine-slave drivers and mill-serf owners? No; I
gave it to the slave; the slave--ha! ha! ha!--whom I helped to unshackle to the common liberty
of hunger and cold. And you think I would be the beneficiary of such a state of things?"

"I'm sorry to hear you talk so, Lindau," said March; "very sorry." He stopped with a look of
pain, and rose to go. Lindau suddenly broke into a laugh and into English.

"Oh, well, it is only dalk, Passil, and it toes me goodt. My parg is worse than my pidte, I
cuess. I pring these things roundt bretty soon. Good-bye, Passil, my tear poy. Auf wiedersehen!"

XIII.

March went away thinking of what Lindau had said, but not for the impersonal significance of
his words so much as for the light they cast upon Lindau himself. He thought the words violent
enough, but in connection with what he remembered of the cheery, poetic, hopeful idealist,
they were even more curious than lamentable. In his own life of comfortable reverie he had
never heard any one talk so before, but he had read something of the kind now and then in blatant
labor newspapers which he had accidentally fallen in with, and once at a strikers' meeting
he had heard rich people denounced with the same frenzy. He had made his own reflections upon
the tastelessness of the rhetoric, and the obvious buncombe of the motive, and he had not taken
the matter seriously.

He could not doubt Lindau's sincerity, and he wondered how he came to that way of thinking.
From his experience of himself he accounted for a prevailing literary quality in it; he decided
it to be from Lindau's reading and feeling rather than his reflection. That was the notion
he formed of some things he had met with in Ruskin to much the same effect; he regarded them
with amusement as the chimeras of a rhetorician run away with by his phrases.

But as to Lindau, the chief thing in his mind was a conception of the droll irony of a situation
in which so fervid a hater of millionaires should be working, indirectly at least, for the
prosperity of a man like Dryfoos, who, as March understood, had got his money together out
of every gambler's chance in speculation, and all a schemer's thrift from the error and need
of others. The situation was not more incongruous, however, than all the rest of the 'Every
Other Week' affair. It seemed to him that there were no crazy fortuities that had not tended
to its existence, and as time went on, and the day drew near for the issue of the first number,
the sense of this intensified till the whole lost at moments the quality of a waking fact,
and came to be rather a fantastic fiction of sleep.

Yet the heterogeneous forces did co-operate to a reality which March could not deny, at least
in their presence, and the first number was representative of all their nebulous intentions
in a tangible form. As a result, it was so respectable that March began to respect these intentions,
began to respect himself for combining and embodying them in the volume which appealed to him
with a novel fascination, when the first advance copy was laid upon his desk. Every detail
of it was tiresomely familiar already, but the whole had a fresh interest now. He now saw how
extremely fit and effective Miss Leighton's decorative design for the cover was, printed in
black and brick-red on the delicate gray tone of the paper. It was at once attractive and refined,
and he credited Beaton with quite all he merited in working it over to the actual shape. The
touch and the taste of the art editor were present throughout the number. As Fulkerson said,
Beaton had caught on with the delicacy of a humming-bird and the tenacity of a bulldog to the
virtues of their illustrative process, and had worked it for all it was worth. There were seven
papers in the number, and a poem on the last page of the cover, and he had found some graphic
comment for each. It was a larger proportion than would afterward be allowed, but for once
in a way it was allowed. Fulkerson said they could not expect to get their money back on that
first number, anyway. Seven of the illustrations were Beaton's; two or three he got from practised
hands; the rest were the work of unknown people which he had suggested, and then related and
adapted with unfailing ingenuity to the different papers. He handled the illustrations with
such sympathy as not to destroy their individual quality, and that indefinable charm which
comes from good amateur work in whatever art. He rescued them from their weaknesses and errors,
while he left in them the evidence of the pleasure with which a clever young man, or a sensitive
girl, or a refined woman had done them. Inevitably from his manipulation, however, the art
of the number acquired homogeneity, and there was nothing casual in its appearance. The result,
March eagerly owned, was better than the literary result, and he foresaw that the number would
be sold and praised chiefly for its pictures. Yet he was not ashamed of the literature, and
he indulged his admiration of it the more freely because he had not only not written it, but
in a way had not edited it. To be sure, he had chosen all the material, but he had not voluntarily
put it all together for that number; it had largely put itself together, as every number of
every magazine does, and as it seems more and more to do, in the experience of every editor.
There had to be, of course, a story, and then a sketch of travel. There was a literary essay
and a social essay; there was a dramatic trifle, very gay, very light; there was a dashing
criticism on the new pictures, the new plays, the new books, the new fashions; and then there
was the translation of a bit of vivid Russian realism, which the editor owed to Lindau's exploration
of the foreign periodicals left with him; Lindau was himself a romanticist of the Victor Hugo
sort, but he said this fragment of Dostoyevski was good of its kind. The poem was a bit of
society verse, with a backward look into simpler and wholesomer experiences.

Fulkerson was extremely proud of the number; but he said it was too good--too good from every
point of view. The cover was too good, and the paper was too good, and that device of rough
edges, which got over the objection to uncut leaves while it secured their aesthetic effect,
was a thing that he trembled for, though he rejoiced in it as a stroke of the highest genius.
It had come from Beaton at the last moment, as a compromise, when the problem of the vulgar
croppiness of cut leaves and the unpopularity of uncut leaves seemed to have no solution but
suicide. Fulkerson was still morally crawling round on his hands and knees, as he said, in
abject gratitude at Beaton's feet, though he had his qualms, his questions; and he declared
that Beaton was the most inspired ass since Balaam's. "We're all asses, of course," he admitted,
in semi-apology to March; "but we're no such asses as Beaton." He said that if the tasteful
decorativeness of the thing did not kill it with the public outright, its literary excellence
would give it the finishing stroke. Perhaps that might be overlooked in the impression of novelty
which a first number would give, but it must never happen again. He implored March to promise
that it should never happen again; he said their only hope was in the immediate cheapening
of the whole affair. It was bad enough to give the public too much quantity for their money,
but to throw in such quality as that was simply ruinous; it must be stopped. These were the
expressions of his intimate moods; every front that he presented to the public wore a glow
of lofty, of devout exultation. His pride in the number gushed out in fresh bursts of rhetoric
to every one whom he could get to talk with him about it. He worked the personal kindliness
of the press to the utmost. He did not mind making himself ridiculous or becoming a joke in
the good cause, as he called it. He joined in the applause when a humorist at the club feigned
to drop dead from his chair at Fulkerson's introduction of the topic, and he went on talking
that first number into the surviving spectators. He stood treat upon all occasions, and he
lunched attaches of the press at all hours. He especially befriended the correspondents of
the newspapers of other cities, for, as he explained to March, those fellows could give him
any amount of advertising simply as literary gossip. Many of the fellows were ladies who could
not be so summarily asked out to lunch, but Fulkerson's ingenuity was equal to every exigency,
and he contrived somehow to make each of these feel that she had been possessed of exclusive
information. There was a moment when March conjectured a willingness in Fulkerson to work Mrs.
March into the advertising department, by means of a tea to these ladies and their friends
which she should administer in his apartment, but he did not encourage Fulkerson to be explicit,
and the moment passed. Afterward, when he told his wife about it, he was astonished to find
that she would not have minded doing it for Fulkerson, and he experienced another proof of
the bluntness of the feminine instincts in some directions, and of the personal favor which
Fulkerson seemed to enjoy with the whole sex. This alone was enough to account for the willingness
of these correspondents to write about the first number, but March accused him of sending it
to their addresses with boxes of Jacqueminot roses and Huyler candy.

Fulkerson let him enjoy his joke. He said that he would do that or anything else for the good
cause, short of marrying the whole circle of female correspondents.

March was inclined to hope that if the first number had been made too good for the country
at large, the more enlightened taste of metropolitan journalism would invite a compensating
favor for it in New York. But first Fulkerson and then the event proved him wrong. In spite
of the quality of the magazine, and in spite of the kindness which so many newspaper men felt
for Fulkerson, the notices in the New York papers seemed grudging and provisional to the ardor
of the editor. A merit in the work was acknowledged, and certain defects in it for which March
had trembled were ignored; but the critics astonished him by selecting for censure points which
he was either proud of or had never noticed; which being now brought to his notice he still
could not feel were faults. He owned to Fulkerson that if they had said so and so against it,
he could have agreed with them, but that to say thus and so was preposterous; and that if the
advertising had not been adjusted with such generous recognition of the claims of the different
papers, he should have known the counting-room was at the bottom of it. As it was, he could
only attribute it to perversity or stupidity. It was certainly stupid to condemn a magazine
novelty like 'Every Other Week' for being novel; and to augur that if it failed, it would fail
through its departure from the lines on which all the other prosperous magazines had been built,
was in the last degree perverse, and it looked malicious. The fact that it was neither exactly
a book nor a magazine ought to be for it and not against it, since it would invade no other
field; it would prosper on no ground but its own.

XIV.

The more March thought of the injustice of the New York press (which had not, however, attacked
the literary quality of the number) the more bitterly he resented it; and his wife's indignation
superheated his own. 'Every Other Week' had become a very personal affair with the whole family;
the children shared their parents' disgust; Belle was outspoken in, her denunciations of a
venal press. Mrs. March saw nothing but ruin ahead, and began tacitly to plan a retreat to
Boston, and an establishment retrenched to the basis of two thousand a year. She shed some
secret tears in anticipation of the privations which this must involve; but when Fulkerson
came to see March rather late the night of the publication day, she nobly told him that if
the worst came to the worst she could only have the kindliest feeling toward him, and should
not regard him as in the slightest degree responsible.

"Oh, hold on, hold on!" he protested. "You don't think we've made a failure, do you?"

"Why, of course," she faltered, while March remained gloomily silent.

"Well, I guess we'll wait for the official count, first. Even New York hasn't gone against
us, and I guess there's a majority coming down to Harlem River that could sweep everything
before it, anyway."

"What do you mean, Fulkerson?" March demanded, sternly.

"Oh, nothing! Only, the 'News Company' has ordered ten thousand now; and you know we had to
give them the first twenty on commission."

"What do you mean?" March repeated; his wife held her breath.

"I mean that the first number is a booming success already, and that it's going to a hundred
thousand before it stops. That unanimity and variety of censure in the morning papers, combined
with the attractiveness of the thing itself, has cleared every stand in the city, and now if
the favor of the country press doesn't turn the tide against us, our fortune's made." The Marches
remained dumb. "Why, look here! Didn't I tell you those criticisms would be the making of us,
when they first began to turn you blue this morning, March?"

"He came home to lunch perfectly sick," said Mrs. Marcli; "and I wouldn't let him go back again."

"Didn't I tell you so?" Fulkerson persisted.

March could not remember that he had, or that he had been anything but incoherently and hysterically
jocose over the papers, but he said, "Yes, yes--I think so."

"I knew it from the start," said Fulkerson. "The only other person who took those criticisms
in the right spirit was Mother Dryfoos--I've just been bolstering up the Dryfoos family. She
had them read to her by Mrs. Mandel, and she understood them to be all the most flattering
prophecies of success. Well, I didn't read between the lines to that extent, quite; but I saw
that they were going to help us, if there was anything in us, more than anything that could
have been done. And there was something in us! I tell you, March, that seven-shooting self-cocking
donkey of a Beaton has given us the greatest start! He's caught on like a mouse. He's made
the thing awfully chic; it's jimmy; there's lots of dog about it. He's managed that process
so that the illustrations look as expensive as first-class wood-cuts, and they're cheaper than
chromos. He's put style into the whole thing."

"Oh yes," said March, with eager meekness, "it's Beaton that's done it."

Fulkerson read jealousy of Beaton in Mrs. March's face. "Beaton has given us the start because
his work appeals to the eye. There's no denying that the pictures have sold this first number;
but I expect the literature of this first number to sell the pictures of the second. I've been
reading it all over, nearly, since I found how the cat was jumping; I was anxious about it,
and I tell you, old man, it's good. Yes, sir! I was afraid maybe you had got it too good, with
that Boston refinement of yours; but I reckon you haven't. I'll risk it. I don't see how you
got so much variety into so few things, and all of them palpitant, all of 'em on the keen jump
with actuality."

The mixture of American slang with the jargon of European criticism in Fulkerson's talk made
March smile, but his wife did not seem to notice it in her exultation. "That is just what I
say," she broke in. "It's perfectly wonderful. I never was anxious about it a moment, except,
as you say, Mr. Fulkerson, I was afraid it might be too good."

They went on in an antiphony of praise till March said: "Really, I don't see what's left me
but to strike for higher wages. I perceive that I'm indispensable."

"Why, old man, you're coming in on the divvy, you know," said Fulkerson.

They both laughed, and when Fulkerson was gone, Mrs. March asked her husband what a divvy was.

"It's a chicken before it's hatched."

"No! Truly?"

He explained, and she began to spend the divvy.

At Mrs. Leighton's Fulkerson gave Alma all the honor of the success; he told her mother that
the girl's design for the cover had sold every number, and Mrs. Leighton believed him.

"Well, Ah think Ah maght have some of the glory," Miss Woodburn pouted. "Where am Ah comin' in?"

"You're coming in on the cover of the next number," said Fulkerson." We're going to have your
face there; Miss Leighton's going to sketch it in." He said this reckless of the fact that
he had already shown them the design of the second number, which was Beaton's weird bit of
gas-country landscape.

"Ah don't see why you don't wrahte the fiction for your magazine, Mr. Fulkerson," said the girl.

This served to remind Fulkerson of something. He turned to her father. "I'll tell you what,
Colonel Woodburn, I want Mr. March to see some chapters of that book of yours. I've been talking
to him about it."

"I do not think it would add to the popularity of your periodical, sir," said the Colonel,
with a stately pleasure in being asked. "My views of a civilization based upon responsible
slavery would hardly be acceptable to your commercialized society."

"Well, not as a practical thing, of course," Fulkerson admitted. "But as something retrospective,
speculative, I believe it would make a hit. There's so much going on now about social questions;
I guess people would like to read it."

"I do not know that my work is intended to amuse people," said the Colonel, with some state.

"Mah goodness! Ah only wish it WAS, then," said his daughter; and she added: "Yes, Mr. Fulkerson,
the Colonel will be very glad to submit po'tions of his woak to yo' edito'. We want to have
some of the honaw. Perhaps we can say we helped to stop yo' magazine, if we didn't help to
stawt it."

They all laughed at her boldness, and Fulkerson said: "It 'll take a good deal more than that
to stop 'Every Other Week'. The Colonel's whole book couldn't do it." Then he looked unhappy,
for Colonel Woodburn did not seem to enjoy his reassuring words; but Miss Woodburn came to
his rescue. "You maght illustrate it with the po'trait of the awthoris daughtaw, if it's too
late for the covah."

"Going to have that in every number, Miss Woodburn!" he cried.

"Oh, mah goodness!" she said, with mock humility.

Alma sat looking at her piquant head, black, unconsciously outlined against the lamp, as she
sat working by the table. "Just keep still a moment!"

She got her sketch-block and pencils, and began to draw; Fulkerson tilted himself forward and
looked over her shoulder; he smiled outwardly; inwardly he was divided between admiration of
Miss Woodburn's arch beauty and appreciation of the skill which reproduced it; at the same
time he was trying to remember whether March had authorized him to go so far as to ask for
a sight of Colonel Woodburn's manuscript. He felt that he had trenched upon March's province,
and he framed one apology to the editor for bringing him the manuscript, and another to the
author for bringing it back.

"Most Ah hold raght still like it was a photograph?" asked Miss Woodburn. "Can Ah toak?"

"Talk all you want," said Alma, squinting her eyes. "And you needn't be either adamantine,
nor yet--wooden."

"Oh, ho' very good of you! Well, if Ah can toak--go on, Mr. Fulkerson!"

"Me talk? I can't breathe till this thing is done!" sighed Fulkerson; at that point of his
mental drama the Colonel was behaving rustily about the return of his manuscript, and he felt
that he was looking his last on Miss Woodburn's profile.

"Is she getting it raght?" asked the girl.

"I don't know which is which," said Fulkerson.

"Oh, Ah hope Ah shall! Ah don't want to go round feelin' like a sheet of papah half the time."

"You could rattle on, just the same," suggested Alma.

"Oh, now! Jost listen to that, Mr. Fulkerson. Do you call that any way to toak to people?"

"You might know which you were by the color," Fulkerson began, and then he broke off from the
personal consideration with a business inspiration, and smacked himself on the knee, "We could
print it in color!"

Mrs. Leighton gathered up her sewing and held it with both hands in her lap, while she came
round, and looked critically at the sketch and the model over her glasses. "It's very good,
Alma," she said.

Colonel Woodburn remained restively on his side of the table. "Of course, Mr. Fulkerson, you
were jesting, sir, when you spoke of printing a sketch of my daughter."

"Why, I don't know--If you object--?

"I do, sir--decidedly," said the Colonel.

"Then that settles it, of course,--I only meant--"

"Indeed it doesn't!" cried the girl. "Who's to know who it's from? Ah'm jost set on havin'
it printed! Ah'm going to appear as the head of Slavery--in opposition to the head of Liberty."

"There'll be a revolution inside of forty-eight hours, and we'll have the Colonel's system
going wherever a copy of 'Every Other Week' circulates," said Fulkerson.

"This sketch belongs to me," Alma interposed. "I'm not going to let it be printed."

"Oh, mah goodness!" said Miss Woodburn, laughing good-humoredly. "That's becose you were brought
up to hate slavery."

"I should like Mr. Beaton to see it," said Mrs. Leighton, in a sort of absent tone. She added,
to Fulkerson: "I rather expected he might be in to-night."

"Well, if he comes we'll leave it to Beaton," Fulkerson said, with relief in the solution,
and an anxious glance at the Colonel, across the table, to see how he took that form of the
joke. Miss Woodburn intercepted his glance and laughed, and Fulkerson laughed, too, but rather
forlornly.

Alma set her lips primly and turned her head first on one side and then on the other to look
at the sketch. "I don't think we'll leave it to Mr. Beaton, even if he comes."

"We left the other design for the cover to Beaton," Fulkerson insinuated. "I guess you needn't
be afraid of him."

"Is it a question of my being afraid?" Alma asked; she seemed coolly intent on her drawing.

"Miss Leighton thinks he ought to be afraid of her," Miss Woodburn explained.

"It's a question of his courage, then?" said Alma.

"Well, I don't think there are many young ladies that Beaton's afraid of," said Fulkerson,
giving himself the respite of this purely random remark, while he interrogated the faces of
Mrs. Leighton and Colonel Woodburn for some light upon the tendency of their daughters' words.

He was not helped by Mrs. Leighton's saying, with a certain anxiety, "I don't know what you
mean, Mr. Fulkerson."

"Well, you're as much in the dark as I am myself, then," said Fulkerson. "I suppose I meant
that Beaton is rather--a--favorite, you know. The women like him."

Mrs. Leighton sighed, and Colonel Woodburn rose and left the room.

In the silence that followed, Fulkerson looked from one lady to the other with dismay. "I seem
to have put my foot in it, somehow," he suggested, and Miss Woodburn gave a cry of laughter.

"Poo' Mr. Fulkerson! Poo' Mr. Fulkerson! Papa thoat you wanted him to go."

"Wanted him to go?" repeated Fulkerson.

"We always mention Mr. Beaton when we want to get rid of papa."

"Well, it seems to me that I have noticed that he didn't take much interest in Beaton, as a
general topic. But I don't know that I ever saw it drive him out of the room before!"

"Well, he isn't always so bad," said Miss Woodburn. "But it was a case of hate at first sight,
and it seems to be growin' on papa."

"Well, I can understand that," said Fulkerson. "The impulse to destroy Beaton is something
that everybody has to struggle against at the start."

"I must say, Mr. Fulkerson," said Mrs. Leighton, in the tremor through which she nerved herself
to differ openly with any one she liked, "I never had to struggle with anything of the kind,
in regard to Mr. Beaton. He has always been most respectful and--and--considerate, with me,
whatever he has been with others."

"Well, of course, Mrs. Leighton!" Fulkerson came back in a soothing tone. "But you see you're
the rule that proves the exception. I was speaking of the way men felt about Beaton. It's different
with ladies; I just said so."

"Is it always different?" Alma asked, lifting her head and her hand from her drawing, and staring
at it absently.

Fulkerson pushed both his hands through his whiskers. "Look here! Look here!" he said. "Won't
somebody start some other subject? We haven't had the weather up yet, have we? Or the opera?
What is the matter with a few remarks about politics?"

"Why, Ah thoat you lahked to toak about the staff of yo' magazine," said Miss Woodburn.

"Oh, I do!" said Fulkerson. "But not always about the same member of it. He gets monotonous,
when he doesn't get complicated. I've just come round from the Marches'," he added, to Mrs.
Leighton.

"I suppose they've got thoroughly settled in their apartment by this time." Mrs. Leighton said
something like this whenever the Marches were mentioned. At the bottom of her heart she had
not forgiven them for not taking her rooms; she had liked their looks so much; and she was
always hoping that they were uncomfortable or dissatisfied; she could not help wanting them
punished a little.

"Well, yes; as much as they ever will be," Fulkerson answered. "The Boston style is pretty
different, you know; and the Marches are old-fashioned folks, and I reckon they never went
in much for bric-a-brac They've put away nine or ten barrels of dragon candlesticks, but they
keep finding new ones."

"Their landlady has just joined our class," said Alma. "Isn't her name Green? She happened
to see my copy of 'Every Other Week', and said she knew the editor; and told me."

"Well, it's a little world," said Fulkerson. "You seem to be touching elbows with everybody.
Just think of your having had our head translator for a model."

"Ah think that your whole publication revolves aroand the Leighton family," said Miss Woodburn.

"That's pretty much so," Fulkerson admitted. "Anyhow, the publisher seems disposed to do so."

"Are you the publisher? I thought it was Mr. Dryfoos," said Alma.

"It is."

"Oh!"

The tone and the word gave Fulkerson a discomfort which he promptly confessed. "Missed again."

The girls laughed, and he regained something of his lost spirits, and smiled upon their gayety,
which lasted beyond any apparent reason for it.

Miss Woodburn asked, "And is Mr. Dryfoos senio' anything like ouah Mr. Dryfoos?"

"Not the least."

"But he's jost as exemplary?"

"Yes; in his way."

"Well, Ah wish Ah could see all those pinks of puffection togethah, once."

"Why, look here! I've been thinking I'd celebrate a little, when the old gentleman gets back.
Have a little supper--something of that kind. How would you like to let me have your parlors
for it, Mrs. Leighton? You ladies could stand on the stairs, and have a peep at us, in the bunch."

"Oh, mah! What a privilege! And will Miss Alma be there, with the othah contributors? Ah shall
jost expah of envy!"

"She won't be there in person," said Fulkerson, "but she'll be represented by the head of the
art department."

"Mah goodness! And who'll the head of the publishing department represent?"

"He can represent you," said Alma.

"Well, Ah want to be represented, someho'."

"We'll have the banquet the night before you appear on the cover of our fourth number," said
Fulkerson.

"Ah thoat that was doubly fo'bidden," said Miss Woodburn. "By the stern parent and the envious
awtust."

"We'll get Beaton to get round them, somehow. I guess we can trust him to manage that."

Mrs. Leighton sighed her resentment of the implication.

"I always feel that Mr. Beaton doesn't do himself justice," she began.

Fulkerson could not forego the chance of a joke. "Well, maybe he would rather temper justice
with mercy in a case like his." This made both the younger ladies laugh. "I judge this is my
chance to get off with my life," he added, and he rose as he spoke. "Mrs. Leighton, I am about
the only man of my sex who doesn't thirst for Beaton's blood most of the time. But I know him
and I don't. He's more kinds of a good fellow than people generally understand. He doesn't
wear his heart upon his sleeve-not his ulster sleeve, anyway. You can always count me on your
side when it's a question of finding Beaton not guilty if he'll leave the State."

Alma set her drawing against the wall, in rising to say goodnight to Fulkerson. He bent over
on his stick to look at it. "Well, it's beautiful," he sighed, with unconscious sincerity.

Alma made him a courtesy of mock modesty. "Thanks to Miss Woodburn!"

"Oh no! All she had to do was simply to stay put."

"Don't you think Ah might have improved it if Ah had, looked better?" the girl asked, gravely.

"Oh, you couldn't!" said Fulkerson, and he went off triumphant in their applause and their
cries of "Which? which?"

Mrs. Leighton sank deep into an accusing gloom when at last she found herself alone with her
daughter. "I don't know what you are thinking about, Alma Leighton. If you don't like Mr. Beaton--"

"I don't."

"You don't? You know better than that. You know that, you did care for him."

"Oh! that's a very different thing. That's a thing that can be got over."

"Got over!" repeated Mrs. Leighton, aghast.

"Of course, it can! Don't be romantic, mamma. People get over dozens of such fancies. They
even marry for love two or three times."

"Never!" cried her mother, doing her best to feel shocked; and at last looking it.

Her looking it had no effect upon Alma. "You can easily get over caring for people; but you
can't get over liking them--if you like them because they are sweet and good. That's what lasts.
I was a simple goose, and he imposed upon me because he was a sophisticated goose. Now the
case is reversed."

"He does care for you, now. You can see it. Why do you encourage him to come here?"

"I don't," said Alma. "I will tell him to keep away if you like. But whether he comes or goes,
it will be the same."

"Not to him, Alma! He is in love with you!"

"He has never said so."

"And you would really let him say so, when you intend to refuse him?"

"I can't very well refuse him till he does say so."

This was undeniable. Mrs. Leighton could only demand, in an awful tone, "May I ask why--if
you cared for him; and I know you care for him still you will refuse him?"

Alma laughed. "Because--because I'm wedded to my Art, and I'm not going to commit bigamy, whatever
I do."

"Alma!"

"Well, then, because I don't like him--that is, I don't believe in him, and don't trust him.
He's fascinating, but he's false and he's fickle. He can't help it, I dare say."

"And you are perfectly hard. Is it possible that you were actually pleased to have Mr. Fulkerson
tease you about Mr. Dryfoos?"

"Oh, good-night, now, mamma! This is becoming personal"

PG EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

    Artists never do anything like other people
    Ballast of her instinctive despondency
    Clinging persistence of such natures
    Dividend: It's a chicken before it's hatched
    Gayety, which lasted beyond any apparent reason for it
    Hopeful recklessness
    How much can a man honestly earn without wronging or oppressing
    I cannot endure this--this hopefulness of yours
    If you dread harm enough it is less likely to happen
    It must be your despair that helps you to bear up
    Marry for love two or three times
    No man deserves to sufer at the hands of another
    Patience with mediocrity putting on the style of genius
    Person talks about taking lessons, as if they could learn it
    Say when he is gone that the woman gets along better without him
    Shouldn't ca' fo' the disgrace of bein' poo'--its inconvenience
    Timidity of the elder in the presence of the younger man

