At this time the yield of crops was ruined by most inclement weather, and a mighty dearth of
corn befell. Victuals began to be scarce, and the commons were distressed with famine, so that
the king, anxiously pondering how to relieve the hardness of the times, and seeing that the
thirsty spent somewhat more than the hungry, introduced thrift among the people. He abolished
drinking-bouts, and decreed that no drink should be prepared from gram, thinking that the bitter
famine should be got rid of by prohibiting needless drinking, and that plentiful food could
be levied as a loan on thirst.

Then a certain wanton slave of his belly, lamenting the prohibition against drink, adopted
a deep kind of knavery, and found a new way to indulge his desires. He broke the public law
of temperance by his own excess, contriving to get at what he loved by a device both cunning
and absurd. For he sipped the forbidden liquor drop by drop, and so satisfied his longing to
be tipsy. When he was summoned for this by the king, he declared that there was no stricter
observer of sobriety than he, inasmuch as he mortified his longing to quaff deep by this device
for moderate drinking. He persisted in the fault with which he was taxed, saying that he only
sucked. At last he was also menaced with threats, and forbidden not only to drink, but even
to sip; yet he could not check his habits. For in order to enjoy the unlawful thing in a lawful
way, and not to have his throat subject to the command of another, he sopped morsels of bread
in liquor, and fed on the pieces thus soaked with drink; tasting slowly, so as to prolong the
desired debauch, and attaining, though in no unlawful manner, the forbidden measure of satiety.

Thus his stubborn and frantic intemperance risked his life, all for luxury; and, undeterred
even by the threats of the king, he fortified his rash appetite to despise every peril. A second
time he was summoned by the king on the charge of disobeying his regulation. Yet he did not
even theft cease to defend his act, but maintained that he had in no wise contravened the royal
decree, and that the temperance prescribed by the ordinance had been in no way violated by
that which allured him; especially as the thrift ordered in the law of plain living was so
described, that it was apparently forbidden to drink liquor, but not to eat it. Then the king
called heaven to witness, and swore by the general good, that if he ventured on any such thing
hereafter he would punish him with death. But the man thought that death was not so bad as
temperance, and that it was easier to quit life than luxury; and he again boiled the grain
in water, and then fermented the liquor; whereupon, despairing of any further plea to excuse
his appetite, he openly indulged in drink, and turned to his cups again unabashed. Giving up
cunning for effrontery, he chose rather to await the punishment of the king than to turn sober.
Therefore, when the king asked him why he had so often made free to use the forbidden thing,
he said:

"O king, this craving is begotten, not so much of my thirst, as of my goodwill towards thee!
For I remembered that the funeral rites of a king must be paid with a drinking-bout. Therefore,
led by good judgment more than the desire to swill, I have, by mixing the forbidden liquid,
taken care that the feast whereat thy obsequies are performed should not, by reason of the
scarcity of corn, lack the due and customary drinking. Now I do not doubt that thou wilt perish
of famine before the rest, and be the first to need a tomb; for thou hast passed this strange
law of thrift in fear that thou wilt be thyself the first to lack food. Thou art thinking for
thyself, and not for others, when thou bringest thyself to start such strange miserly ways."

This witty quibbling turned the anger of the king into shame; and when he saw that his ordinance
for the general good came home in mockery to himself, he thought no more of the public profit,
but revoked the edict, relaxing his purpose sooner than anger his subjects.

Whether it was that the soil had too little rain, or that it was too hard baked, the crops,
as I have said, were slack, and the fields gave but little produce; so that the land lacked
victual, and was worn with a weary famine. The stock of food began to fail, and no help was
left to stave off hunger. Then, at the proposal of Agg and of Ebb, it was provided by a decree
of the people that the old men and the tiny children should be slain; that all who were too
young to bear arms should be taken out of the land, and only the strong should be vouchsafed
their own country; that none but able-bodied soldiers and husbandmen should continue to abide
under their own roofs and in the houses of their fathers. When Agg and Ebb brought news of
this to their mother Gambaruk, she saw that the authors of this infamous decree had found safety
in crime. Condemning the decision of the assembly, she said that it was wrong to relieve distress
by murder of kindred, and declared that a plan both more honourable and more desirable for
the good of their souls and bodies would be, to preserve respect towards their parents and
children, and choose by lot men who should quit the country. And if the lot fell on old men
and weak, then the stronger should offer to go into exile in their place, and should of their
own free will undertake to bear the burden of it for the feeble. But those men who had the
heart to save their lives by crime and impiety, and to prosecute their parents and their children
by so abominable a decree, did not deserve life; for they would be doing a work of cruelty
and not of love. Finally, all those whose own lives were dearer to them than the love of their
parents or their children, deserved but ill of their country. These words were reported to
the assembly, and assented to by the vote of the majority. So the fortunes of all were staked
upon the lot and those upon whom it fell were doomed to be banished. Thus those who had been
loth to obey necessity of their own accord had now to accept the award of chance. So they sailed
first to Bleking, and then, sailing past Moring, they came to anchor at Gothland; where, according
to Paulus, they are said to have been prompted by the goddess Frigg to take the name of the
Longobardi (Lombards), whose nation they afterwards founded. In the end they landed at Rugen,
and, abandoning their ships, began to march overland. They crossed and wasted a great portion
of the world; and at last, finding an abode in Italy, changed the ancient name of the nation
for their own.

Meanwhile, the land of the Danes, where the tillers laboured less and less, and all traces
of the furrows were covered with overgrowth, began to look like a forest. Almost stripped of
its pleasant native turf, it bristled with the dense unshapely woods that grew up. Traces of
this are yet seen in the aspect of its fields. What were once acres fertile in grain are now
seen to be dotted with trunks of trees; and where of old the tillers turned the earth up deep
and scattered the huge clods there has now sprung up a forest covering the fields, which still
bear the tracks of ancient tillage. Had not these lands remained untilled and desolate with
long overgrowth, the tenacious roots of trees could never have shared the soil of one and the
same land with the furrows made by the plough. Moreover, the mounds which men laboriously built
up of old on the level ground for the burial of the dead are now covered by a mass of woodland.
Many piles of stones are also to be seen interspersed among the forest glades. These were once
scattered over the whole country, but the peasants carefully gathered the boulders and piled
them into a heap that they might not prevent furrows being cut in all directions; for they
would sooner sacrifice a little of the land than find the whole of it stubborn. From this work,
done by the toil of the peasants for the easier working of the fields, it is judged that the
population in ancient times was greater than the present one, which is satisfied with small
fields, and keeps its agriculture within narrower limits than those of the ancient tillage.
Thus the present generation is amazed to behold that it has exchanged a soil which could once
produce grain for one only fit to grow acorns, and the plough-handle and the cornstalks for
a landscape studded with trees. Let this account of Snio, which I have put together as truly
as I could, suffice.

Snio was succeeded by BIORN; and after him HARALD became sovereign. Harald's son GORM won no
mean place of honour among the ancient generals of the Danes by his record of doughty deeds.
For he ventured into fresh fields, preferring to practise his inherited valour, not in war,
but in searching the secrets of nature; and, just as other kings are stirred by warlike ardour,
so his heart thirsted to look into marvels; either what he could experience himself, or what
were merely matters of report. And being desirous to go and see all things foreign and extraordinary,
he thought that he must above all test a report which he had heard from the men of Thule concerning
the abode of a certain Geirrod. For they boasted past belief of the mighty piles of treasure
in that country, but said that the way was beset with peril, and hardly passable by mortal
man. For those who had tried it declared that it was needful to sail over the ocean that goes
round the lands, to leave the sun and stars behind, to journey down into chaos, and at last
to pass into a land where no light was and where darkness reigned eternally.

But the warrior trampled down in his soul all fear of the dangers that beset him. Not that
he desired booty, but glory; for he hoped for a great increase of renown if he ventured on
a wholly unattempted quest. Three hundred men announced that they had the same desire as the
king; and he resolved that Thorkill, who had brought the news, should be chosen to guide them
on the journey, as he knew the ground and was versed in the approaches to that country. Thorkill
did not refuse the task, and advised that, to meet the extraordinary fury of the sea they had
to cross, strongly-made vessels should be built, fitted with many knotted cords and close-set
nails, filled with great store of provision, and covered above with ox-hides to protect the
inner spaces of the ships from the spray of the waves breaking in. Then they sailed off in
only three galleys, each containing a hundred chosen men.

Now when they had come to Halogaland (Helgeland), they lost their favouring breezes, and were
driven and tossed divers ways over the seas in perilous voyage. At last, in extreme want of
food, and lacking even bread, they staved off hunger with a little pottage. Some days passed,
and they heard the thunder of a storm brawling in the distance, as if it were deluging the
rocks. By this perceiving that land was near, they bade a youth of great nimbleness climb to
the masthead and look out; and he reported that a precipitous island was in sight. All were
overjoyed, and gazed with thirsty eyes at the country at which he pointed, eagerly awaiting
the refuge of the promised shore. At last they managed to reach it, and made their way out
over the heights that blocked their way, along very steep paths, into the higher ground. Then
Thorkill told them to take no more of the herds that were running about in numbers on the coast,
than would serve once to appease their hunger. If they disobeyed, the guardian gods of the
spot would not let them depart. But the seamen, more anxious to go on filling their bellies
than to obey orders, postponed counsels of safety to the temptations of gluttony, and loaded
the now emptied holds of their ships with the carcases of slaughtered cattle. These beasts
were very easy to capture, because they gathered in amazement at the unwonted sight of men,
their fears being made bold. On the following night monsters dashed down upon the shore, filled
the forest with clamour, and beleaguered and beset the ships. One of them, huger than the rest,
strode over the waters, armed with a mighty club. Coming close up to them, he bellowed out
that they should never sail away till they had atoned for the crime they had committed in slaughtering
the flock, and had made good the losses of the herd of the gods by giving up one man for each
of their ships. Thorkill yielded to these threats; and, in order to preserve the safety of
all by imperilling a few, singled out three men by lot and gave them up.

This done, a favouring wind took them, and they sailed to further Permland. It is a region
of eternal cold, covered with very deep snows, and not sensible to the force even of the summer
heats; full of pathless forests, not fertile in grain and haunted by beasts uncommon elsewhere.
Its many rivers pour onwards in a hissing, foaming flood, because of the reefs imbedded in
their channels.

Here Thorkill drew up his ships ashore, and bade them pitch their tents on the beach, declaring
that they had come to a spot whence the passage to Geirrod would be short. Moreover, he forbade
them to exchange any speech with those that came up to them, declaring that nothing enabled
the monsters to injure strangers so much as uncivil words on their part: it would be therefore
safer for his companions to keep silence; none but he, who had seen all the manners and customs
of this nation before, could speak safely. As twilight approached, a man of extraordinary bigness
greeted the sailors by their names, and came among them. All were aghast, but Thorkill told
them to greet his arrival cheerfully, telling them that this was Gudmund, the brother of Geirrod,
and the most faithful guardian in perils of all men who landed in that spot. When the man asked
why all the rest thus kept silence, he answered that they were very unskilled in his language,
and were ashamed to use a speech they did not know. Then Gudmund invited them to be his guests,
and took them up in carriages. As they went forward, they saw a river which could be crossed
by a bridge of gold. They wished to go over it, but Gudmund restrained them, telling them that
by this channel nature had divided the world of men from the world of monsters, and that no
mortal track might go further. Then they reached the dwelling of their guide; and here Thorkill
took his companions apart and warned them to behave like men of good counsel amidst the divers
temptations chance might throw in their way; to abstain from the food of the stranger, and
nourish their bodies only on their own; and to seek a seat apart from the natives, and have
no contact with any of them as they lay at meat. For if they partook of that food they would
lose recollection of all things, and must live for ever in filthy intercourse amongst ghastly
hordes of monsters. Likewise he told them that they must keep their hands off the servants
and the cups of the people.

Round the table stood twelve noble sons of Gudmund, and as many daughters of notable beauty.
When Gudmund saw that the king barely tasted what his servants brought, he reproached him with
repulsing his kindness, and complained that it was a slight on the host. But Thorkill was not
at a loss for a fitting excuse. He reminded him that men who took unaccustomed food often suffered
from it seriously, and that the king was not ungrateful for the service rendered by another,
but was merely taking care of his health, when he refreshed himself as he was wont, and furnished
his supper with his own viands. An act, therefore, that was only done in the healthy desire
to escape some bane, ought in no wise to be put down to scorn. Now when Gudmund saw that the
temperance of his guest had baffled his treacherous preparations, he determined to sap their
chastity, if he could not weaken their abstinence, and eagerly strained every nerve of his
wit to enfeeble their self-control. For he offered the king his daughter in marriage, and promised
the rest that they should have whatever women of his household they desired. Most of them inclined
to his offer: but Thorkill by his healthy admonitions prevented them, as he had done before,
from falling into temptation.

With wonderful management Thorkill divided his heed between the suspicious host and the delighted
guests. Four of the Danes, to whom lust was more than their salvation, accepted the offer;
the infection maddened them, distraught their wits, and blotted out their recollection: for
they are said never to have been in their right mind after this. If these men had kept themselves
within the rightful bounds of temperance, they would have equalled the glories of Hercules,
surpassed with their spirit the bravery of giants, and been ennobled for ever by their wondrous
services to their country.

Gudmund, stubborn to his purpose, and still spreading his nets, extolled the delights of his
garden, and tried to lure the king thither to gather fruits, desiring to break down his constant
wariness by the lust of the eye and the baits of the palate. The king, as before, was strengthened
against these treacheries by Thorkill, and rejected this feint of kindly service; he excused
himself from accepting it on the plea that he must hasten on his journey. Gudmund perceived
that Thorkill was shrewder than he at every point; so, despairing to accomplish his treachery,
he carried them all across the further side of the river, and let them finish their journey.

They went on; and saw, not far off, a gloomy, neglected town, looking more like a cloud exhaling
vapour. Stakes interspersed among the battlements showed the severed heads of warriors and
dogs of great ferocity were seen watching before the doors to guard the entrance. Thorkill
threw them a horn smeared with fat to lick, and so, at slight cost, appeased their most furious
rage. High up the gates lay open to enter, and they climbed to their level with ladders, entering
with difficulty. Inside the town was crowded with murky and misshapen phantoms, and it was
hard to say whether their shrieking figures were more ghastly to the eye or to the ear; everything
was foul, and the reeking mire afflicted the nostrils of the visitors with its unbearable stench.
Then they found the rocky dwelling which Geirrod was rumoured to inhabit for his palace. They
resolved to visit its narrow and horrible ledge, but stayed their steps and halted in panic
at the very entrance. Then Thorkill, seeing that they were of two minds, dispelled their hesitation
to enter by manful encouragement, counselling them, to restrain themselves, and not to touch
any piece of gear in the house they were about to enter, albeit it seemed delightful to have
or pleasant to behold; to keep their hearts as far from all covetousness as from fear; neither
to desire what was pleasant to take, nor dread what was awful to look upon, though they should
find themselves amidst abundance of both these things. If they did, their greedy hands would
suddenly be bound fast, unable to tear themselves away from the thing they touched, and knotted
up with it as by inextricable bonds. Moreover, they should enter in order, four by four.

Broder and Buchi (Buk?) were the first to show courage to attempt to enter the vile palace;
Thorkill with the king followed them, and the rest advanced behind these in ordered ranks.

Inside, the house was seen to be ruinous throughout, and filled with a violent and abominable
reek. And it also teemed with everything that could disgust the eye or the mind: the door-posts
were begrimed with the soot of ages, the wall was plastered with filth, the roof was made up
of spear-heads, the flooring was covered with snakes and bespattered with all manner of uncleanliness.
Such an unwonted sight struck terror into the strangers, and, over all, the acrid and incessant
stench assailed their afflicted nostrils. Also bloodless phantasmal monsters huddled on the
iron seats, and the places for sitting were railed off by leaden trellises; and hideous doorkeepers
stood at watch on the thresholds. Some of these, armed with clubs lashed together, yelled,
while others played a gruesome game, tossing a goat's hide from one to the other with mutual
motion of goatish backs.

Here Thorkill again warned the men, and forbade them to stretch forth their covetous hands
rashly to the forbidden things. Going on through the breach in the crag, they beheld an old
man with his body pierced through, sitting not far off, on a lofty seat facing the side of
the rock that had been rent away. Moreover, three women, whose bodies were covered with tumours,
and who seemed to have lost the strength of their back-bones, filled adjoining seats. Thorkill's
companions were very curious; and he, who well knew the reason of the matter, told them that
long ago the god Thor had been provoked by the insolence of the giants to drive red-hot irons
through the vitals of Geirrod, who strove with him, and that the iron had slid further, torn
up the mountain, and battered through its side; while the women had been stricken by the might
of his thunderbolts, and had been punished (so he declared) for their attempt on the same deity,
by having their bodies broken.

As the men were about to depart thence, there were disclosed to them seven butts hooped round
with belts of gold; and from these hung circlets of silver entwined with them in manifold links.
Near these was found the tusk of a strange beast, tipped at both ends with gold. Close by was
a vast stag-horn, laboriously decked with choice and flashing gems, and this also did not lack
chasing. Hard by was to be seen a very heavy bracelet. One man was kindled with an inordinate
desire for this bracelet, and laid covetous hands upon the gold, not knowing that the glorious
metal covered deadly mischief, and that a fatal bane lay hid under the shining spoil. A second
also, unable to restrain his covetousness, reached out his quivering hands to the horn. A third,
matching the confidence of the others, and having no control over his fingers, ventured to
shoulder the tusk. The spoil seemed alike lovely to look upon and desirable to enjoy, for all
that met the eye was fair and tempting to behold. But the bracelet suddenly took the form of
a snake, and attacked him who was carrying it with its poisoned tooth; the horn lengthened
out into a serpent, and took the life of the man who bore it; the tusk wrought itself into
a sword, and plunged into the vitals of its bearer.

The rest dreaded the fate of perishing with their friends, and thought that the guiltless would
be destroyed like the guilty; they durst not hope that even innocence would be safe. Then the
side-door of another room showed them a narrow alcove: and a privy chamber with a yet richer
treasure was revealed, wherein arms were laid out too great for those of human stature. Among
these were seen a royal mantle, a handsome hat, and a belt marvellously wrought. Thorkill,
struck with amazement at these things, gave rein to his covetousness, and cast off all his
purposed self-restraint. He who so oft had trained others could not so much as conquer his
own cravings. For he laid his hand upon the mantle, and his rash example tempted the rest to
join in his enterprise of plunder. Thereupon the recess shook from its lowest foundations,
and began suddenly to reel and totter. Straightway the women raised a shriek that the wicked
robbers were being endured too long. Then they, who were before supposed to be half-dead or
lifeless phantoms, seemed to obey the cries of the women, and, leaping suddenly up from their
seats, attacked the strangers with furious onset. The other creatures bellowed hoarsely.

But Broder and Buchi fell to their old and familiar arts, and attacked the witches, who ran
at them, with a shower of spears from every side; and with the missiles from their bows and
slings they crushed the array of monsters. There could be no stronger or more successful way
to repulse them; but only twenty men out of all the king's company were rescued by the intervention
of this archery; the rest were torn in pieces by the monsters. The survivors returned to the
river, and were ferried over by Gudmund, who entertained them at his house. Long and often
as he besought them, he could not keep them back; so at last he gave them presents and let them go.

Buchi relaxed his watch upon himself; his self-control became unstrung, and he forsook the
virtue in which he hitherto rejoiced. For he conceived an incurable love for one of the daughters
of Gudmund, and embraced her; but he obtained a bride to his undoing, for soon his brain suddenly
began to whirl, and he lost his recollection. Thus the hero who had subdued all the monsters
and overcome all the perils was mastered by passion for one girl; his soul strayed far from
temperance, and he lay under a wretched sensual yoke. For the sake of respect, he started to
accompany the departing king; but as he was about to ford the river in his carriage, his wheels
sank deep, he was caught up in the violent eddies and destroyed.

The king bewailed his friend's disaster and departed hastening on his voyage. This was at first
prosperous, but afterwards he was tossed by bad weather; his men perished of hunger, and but
few survived, so that he began to feel awe in his heart, and fell to making vows to heaven,
thinking the gods alone could help him in his extreme need. At last the others besought sundry
powers among the gods, and thought they ought to sacrifice to the majesty of divers deities;
but the king, offering both vows and peace-offerings to Utgarda-Loki, obtained that fair season
of weather for which he prayed.

Coming home, and feeling that he had passed through all these seas and toils, he thought it
was time for his spirit, wearied with calamities, to withdraw from his labours. So he took
a queen from Sweden, and exchanged his old pursuits for meditative leisure. His life was prolonged
in the utmost peace and quietness; but when he had almost come to the end of his days, certain
men persuaded him by likely arguments that souls were immortal; so that he was constantly turning
over in his mind the questions, to what abode he was to fare when the breath left his limbs,
or what reward was earned by zealous adoration of the gods.

While he was thus inclined, certain men who wished ill to Thorkill came and told Gorm that
it was needful to consult the gods, and that assurance about so great a matter must be sought
of the oracles of heaven, since it was too deep for human wit and hard for mortals to discover.

Therefore, they said, Utgarda-Loki must be appeased, and no man would accomplish this more
fitly than Thorkill. Others, again, laid information against him as guilty of treachery and
an enemy of the king's life. Thorkill, seeing himself doomed to extreme peril, demanded that
his accusers should share his journey. Then they who had aspersed an innocent man saw that
the peril they had designed against the life of another had recoiled upon themselves, and tried
to take back their plan. But vainly did they pester the ears of the king; he forced them to
sail under the command of Thorkill, and even upbraided them with cowardice. Thus, when a mischief
is designed against another, it is commonly sure to strike home to its author. And when these
men saw that they were constrained, and could not possibly avoid the peril, they covered their
ship with ox-hides, and filled it with abundant store of provision.

In this ship they sailed away, and came to a sunless land, which knew not the stars, was void
of daylight, and seemed to overshadow them with eternal night. Long they sailed under this
strange sky; at last their timber fell short, and they lacked fuel; and, having no place to
boil their meat in, they staved off their hunger with raw viands. But most of those who ate
contracted extreme disease, being glutted with undigested food. For the unusual diet first
made a faintness steal gradually upon their stomachs; then the infection spread further, and
the malady reached the vital parts. Thus there was danger in either extreme, which made it
hurtful not to eat, and perilous to indulge; for it was found both unsafe to feed and bad for
them to abstain. Then, when they were beginning to be in utter despair, a gleam of unexpected
help relieved them, even as the string breaks most easily when it is stretched tightest. For
suddenly the weary men saw the twinkle of a fire at no great distance, and conceived a hope
of prolonging their lives. Thorkill thought this fire a heaven-sent relief, and resolved to
go and take some of it.

To be surer of getting back to his friends, Thorkill fastened a jewel upon the mast-head, to
mark it by the gleam. When he got to the shore, his eyes fell on a cavern in a close defile,
to which a narrow way led. Telling his companions to await him outside, he went in, and saw
two men, swart and very huge, with horny noses, feeding their fire with any chance-given fuel.
Moreover, the entrance was hideous, the door-posts were decayed, the walls grimy with mould,
the roof filthy, and the floor swarming with snakes; all of which disgusted the eye as much
as the mind. Then one of the giants greeted him, and said that he had begun a most difficult
venture in his burning desire to visit a strange god, and his attempt to explore with curious
search an untrodden region beyond the world. Yet he promised to tell Thorkill the paths of
the journey he proposed to make, if he would deliver three true judgments in the form of as
many sayings. Then said Thorkill: "In good truth, I do not remember ever to have seen a household
with more uncomely noses; nor have I ever come to a spot where I had less mind to live." Also
he said: "That, I think, is my best foot which can get out of this foremost."

The giant was pleased with the shrewdness of Thorkill, and praised his sayings, telling him
that he must first travel to a grassless land which was veiled in deep darkness; but he must
first voyage for four days, rowing incessantly, before he could reach his goal. There he could
visit Utgarda-Loki, who had chosen hideous and grisly caves for his filthy dwelling. Thorkill
was much aghast at being bidden to go on a voyage so long and hazardous; but his doubtful hopes
prevailed over his present fears, and he asked for some live fuel. Then said the giant: "If
thou needest fire, thou must deliver three more judgments in like sayings." Then said Thorkill:
"Good counsel is to be obeyed, though a mean fellow gave it." Likewise: "I have gone so far
in rashness, that if I can get back I shall owe my safety to none but my own legs." And again:
"Were I free to retreat this moment, I would take good care never to come back."

