The Island Home, the Adventures of six Young Crusoes, by Richard Archer.

This book should be a bit more of a classic than it actually is.  It is thought that Ballantyne
used it as the inspiration for his famous "The Coral Island", for there is good evidence for
it.  In the 1830s the Washington left New York, the passengers including some of the young
members of the owners' families and some of their friends.  Destination Canton via the Straits
of Magellan.  Crossing the Pacific, they land on various of the islands, such as those in the
Fiji and Kingsmill Groups. Sometimes they encountered particularly nasty inhabitants.  One
day they were on the beach of an island, when it became necessary for the Washington to up
anchors and away, leaving the shore party with the ship's boat.  Murders occur among the seamen.
The boys set sail in the boat, hoping to regain contact with some vessel, but never do.

The rest of the book is a story of survival, and of the good humour of the boys.  The real
problem with the book is the long paragraphs of description which nowadays would be much shorter
or omitted altogether, but it was written in the 1850s, and it was Ballantyne's luck that he
was able to write a book along the same lines but far easier to read.

Still, it's worth a quick skim, if nothing more.  Your reviewer has listened to the book several
times, and enjoyed it each time.

THE ISLAND HOME, THE ADVENTURES OF SIX YOUNG CRUSOES, BY RICHARD ARCHER.

CHAPTER ONE.

INTRODUCTION.

It is now some twenty years ago, that the goodly ship Washington, commanded by Mr Erskine,
left the port of New York, on a trading voyage to the East Indian archipelago.  With a select
few good seamen, the owners had also placed on board some youths of their own families and
immediate connections.

Having passed through the Straits of Magellan in safety, they were then on their way to Canton,
where the young men were to be settled; and meanwhile the ship was to visit any of the isles
in the Pacific Ocean that lay in their path.  After some little delay on the part of the captain
among the numerous groups of isles, the purpose of the voyage was frustrated by the events
narrated in the volume.  The extreme beauty of the wild loveliness of nature that these islets
exhibited, tempted the young men, accompanied by Mr Frazer, one of the officers, to land on
one that presented great charms of scenery, as well as having a convenient and easily accessible
landing-place, and from that point the narrative commences.

It is not necessary for the elucidation of the narrative, to name more of the crew than those
whose adventures are hereafter related by one of the party.  The names of these castaways were
John Browne, the son of a Glasgow merchant; William Morton, and Maximilian Adeler, of New York;
Richard Archer, from Connecticut, the journalist; John Livingstone, from Massachusetts; Arthur
Hamilton, whose parents had settled at Tahiti; and to them was joined Eiulo, prince of Tewa,
in the South-Seas.

The narrative commences from the time of the party landing, and although in some parts prolix
and unequal, being evidently from an unpractised hand, it bears all the characteristics of
a boyish mind, and thus to a certain extent confirms its genuineness.  The sayings and doings
of the young adventurers are recorded with the minuteness that to older heads seems tedious.
This disposition to dwell upon, and to attach importance to things comparatively trivial, is
peculiar to the youthful mind, and marks that period of freshness, joyousness, and inexperience,
when every thing is new, and possesses the power to surprise and to interest.

What became of the ship and crew we are not informed; but we may conclude, that insubordination
would lead to neglect and carelessness, and that the vessel was wrecked and plundered by the
native; and the wretched crew murdered or detained.

The South Pacific Ocean abounds with thousands of islands, of a vast many of which we have
no account; but those mentioned in these pages appear to be the Samoas, the Kingsmill, and
the Feejee Groups of islands, which lie nearly under the equator, and they are described by
Captain Charles Wilkes, in his narrative of the United States Exploring Expedition between
the years 1838 and 1842.  These islands were all visited by the different vessels engaged in
the expedition; many of them appear to be of volcanic formation, others are of coral origin;
they are all characterised as possessing an exceedingly fertile soil; they abound with a picturesque
beauty of scenery, and luxuriant vegetation, which excites the most painful feelings when we
learn, that where nature has bestowed so much bounty, the inhabitants are, it is greatly to
be feared, cannibals.  In some two or three islands, a solitary white man was found, one of
whom, Paddy Connell, (an Irishman, of course), a short, wrinkled old man, with a beard reaching
to his middle, in a rich Milesian brogue, related his adventures during a forty years' residence
at Ovolan, one of the Feejees.  Paddy, with one hundred wives, and forty-eight children, and
a vast quantity of other live stock, expressed his content and happiness, and a determination
to die on the island.  In other cases, the white men expressed an earnest desire to quit the
island, and were received on board the expedition, to the great grief of their wives and connections.

The Samoan Islands are of volcanic structure, with coral reefs, and the harbours are generally
within these reefs; and one of them was discovered by Commodore Byron in 1765, who reported
it as destitute of inhabitants.  Their character is variable, and during the winter months
they have long and heavy rains, and destructive hurricanes sometimes occur.  The air is generally
moist, and light winds and calms during the summer, render vegetation luxuriant.

The woods in the interior of these islands are very thick, and are composed of large and fine
trees; there are pandanus, palms, tree ferns, and a remarkable species of banyan, whose pendant
branches take root to the number of thousands, forming steps of all dimensions, uniting to
the main trunk, more than eight feet above the ground, and supporting a vast system of horizontal
branches, spreading like an umbrella over the tops of other trees.  The bread-fruit is the
most abundant of all the trees, and grows to a very large size; the cocoa-nut, the wild orange,
and the lime, are all to be found.  Bamboos, wild sugar-cane, wild nutmeg, besides many others,
only require cultivation.  Caoutchouc, gum arabic, castor beans, ginger, orris root, and coffee,
will in time be added to these productions.  Lemons and sweet oranges have already been planted,
and promise a large product.

Swine are abundant and cattle rapidly increasing.  Poultry of all kinds is very plentiful,
and fish are taken in abundance.

The beneficent effects of missionary labours are very evident amongst the Samoans; they are
not now subject to wars, and for crimes they have punishment.

Their habits are regular; they rise with the sun, and after a meal, bathe and oil themselves,
and then go to their occupations for the day; they eat at one o'clock, and again at eight,
retiring to rest about nine.  The men do all the hard work, even to cookery.  The women are
held in much consideration, and are treated with great kindness and attention.  They take care
of the house and children, prepare the food for cooking, and manufacture the mats, etcetera.

Their houses are carefully constructed, generally occupying eighteen months in building; the
floor is paved with small round stones, and divisions or separate apartments formed.  In some
villages, broad walks and paths are kept in nice order.  The females generally wear a kind
of robe, similar to the poncho of the South Americans; and although not what may be termed
pretty, they have some degree of bashfulness, which renders them interesting in appearance;
when young, they are but little darker than a brunette, or South American Spaniard.

The entire population of the group is estimated at 60,000, of whom more than one-fourth have
embraced Christianity, and it is understood that more than two-thirds of the population are
favouring the progress of the gospel.  Many thousands attend the schools of the missionaries,
and the habit of reading is fast obliterating the original religion and superstitions of the race.

Of the Kingsmill Group, we possess a very sad account; one named Drummond's Island, which is
of coral formation, is about thirty miles long, and about three-quarters of a mile in width.
The island is covered with cocoa-nut and pandanus trees, but not a patch of grass was seen.
The character of these islanders is of the most savage kind; their ferocity led to the belief
that they are cannibals; one seaman of the expedition was carried off, and all attempts to
rescue him were unavailing.  Clad in coats of mail, and helmets made of the skin of a horny
kind of fish, with weapons of the most frightful character, formed from the teeth of some of
the voracious monsters of the deep, they appeared to the number of more than five hundred,
prepared for resistance; their numbers continuing to increase.  The officer in command, considered
it both useless and dangerous to continue on the land.  Failing to procure the desired end,
prior to returning, the commanding officer determined to show the power of their arms, and
having shot the leader of the savages dead, by a rocket and a volley, set their town, which
was close to the beach, in flames; and the houses being formed of easily combustible material,
a very short time sufficed to reduce the whole to ashes.  The number of houses was supposed
to be about three hundred.

The people appear to be under no control whatever, and possess little of the characteristic
hospitality usually found among other savage tribes.

It was observed that their treatment of each other exhibited a great want of feeling; and in
many instances their practices were indicative of the lowest state of barbarism.  Their young
girls are freely offered for sale by their fathers and brothers, and without concealment; and
to drive a bargain is the principal object of their visits to a ship.

The Kingsmill Group, which consists of fifteen islands, are all of coral formation--every one
appears a continuous grove of cocoa-nut and pandanus trees--they are all densely inhabited.
From one of these islands, John Kirby, a deserter from an English whaler, was taken, who had
resided there three years.  He stated that the natives do sometimes eat human flesh; but their
general food is fish.  That these islands have been peopled at a period not very remote is
tolerably certain, as the natives state that only a few generations back, the people were fewer
than at present, and that then there were no wars.

The islanders of this group differ from other Polynesians, and they more nearly resemble the
Malays.  They are of a dark copper colour, are of middle size, well-made, and slender.  Their
hair is fine, black, and glossy--their beards and moustaches black, and fine as the hair of
their heads.  The average height of the men is five feet eight inches.  The women are much
smaller--they have delicate features, slight figures, and are generally pretty.

The Feejee Group excel all other islands of Polynesia in their luxuriant and picturesque beauty--they
produce all kinds of tropical fruits and vegetables--the bread-fruit, of which there are nine
kinds, flourishes in great perfection; the banana, cocoa-nut, and chestnut, the orange, the
lemon, and the guava, the pine-apple, and the nutmeg, are all to be found; and the yam, which
attains the length of above four feet, is the principal food of the inhabitants; besides these,
the sugar-cane and turmeric are largely cultivated, and different varieties are found growing
wild.  Although the Feejeeans have made considerable progress in several useful arts, they
are in many respects the most barbarous and savage race now existing upon the globe.  Having
had considerable intercourse with white men, some effect has been produced in their political
condition, but it has had no effect in mitigating the ferocity of their character.  Messrs.
Lythe and Hunt, missionaries at Vuna, one of the Feejees, have given a circumstantial account
of a cannibal feast, for the preparation of which they were eye-witnesses. The missionaries
having heard rumours that the king had sent for some men belonging to a refractory town not
far from the capital, with the intention of killing them, and afterwards feasting on their
bodies, they went to the old king to urge him to desist from so horrid and barbarous a repast,
and warned him that a time would come when he would be punished for it.  The king referred
them to his son; but the savage propensities of the latter rendered it impossible for them
to turn the savage from his barbarous purpose.  They afterwards saw the bodies cut up and cooked.
On two of these islands, however, the efforts of missionaries have been rewarded with some
success; for the Reverend Mr Calvert, belonging to the Wesleyan society, assured the officers
of the expedition, that in those islands heathenism was fast passing away, and that cannibalism
was there extinct; but it must be observed that many of the residents on those two islands
were Tongese, among whom it is well known the light of the gospel of Christ has long prevailed.

On one of those isles are five hot springs, the temperature of which is 200 degrees; the rocks
in the neighbourhood is of volcanic creation-- there is no smell of sulphur unless the head
is held close to the water; but the water has a very strong bitter saline taste.  These springs
are used by the natives to boil their yams, which it does simply by putting them into the springs,
and covering them with grass and leaves, and, although the water had scarcely any appearance
of boiling before, rapid ebullition ensues.  The yams are well done in fifteen minutes.

The population of the Feejee Group is supposed to be about 130,000. Their towns are all on
the sea-shore, as the chief food is fish.  The Feejeeans are very ingenious at canoe-building
and carpentry, and, curious enough, the barber is a most important personage, as they take
great pains and pride in dressing their hair.  Their houses are from twenty to thirty feet
in length, and about fifteen feet in height--all have fireplaces, as they cook their food,
which is done in jars, very like an oil jar in form.

All these isles are girt by white encircling reefs, which, standing out at some distance from
the shore, forms a natural harbour, so that when a vessel has once entered, it is as secure
as in an artificial dock. There is generally but one entrance through the reef, and the difficulty
of discovering it is well described by the Young Crusoes.  Each one has its own peculiar beauty;
but Ovolan exceeds all others; it is the highest, the most broken, and the most picturesque.

Having thus introduced our readers to the scene of these adventures, we proceed to give the
narrative in the words of the journalist of the Young Castaways.

CHAPTER TWO.

THE TROPICAL ISLAND.

A COCOA-PALM--VIEWS OF DESERT ISLAND LIFE.

  "O had we some bright little isle of our own,
  In the blue summer ocean, far-off and alone."

Wandering along the shore, (taking care to keep in sight of Mr Frazer, under whose convoy,
in virtue of his double-barrelled fowling-piece, we considered ourselves), we came to a low
and narrow point, running out a little way into the sea, the extremity of which was adorned
by a stately group of cocoa-nut trees.

The spot seemed ill adapted to support vegetation of so magnificent a growth, and nothing less
hardy than the cocoa-palm could have derived nourishment from such a soil.  Several of these
fine trees stood almost at the water's edge, springing from a bed of sand, mingled with black
basaltic pebbles, and coarse fragments of shells and coral, where their roots were washed by
every rising tide: yet their appearance was thrifty and flourishing, and they were thickly
covered with close-packed bunches of tassel-like, straw-coloured blossoms, and loaded with
fruit in various stages of growth.

Johnny cast a wistful glance at the compact clusters of nuts, nestling beneath the graceful
tufts of long leaves that crowned each straight and tapering trunk; but he had so recently
learned from experience, the hopelessness of undertaking to climb a cocoa-nut tree, that he
was not at present disposed to renew the attempt.  Max, however, who greatly valued himself
upon his agility, and professed to be able to do any thing that could be done, in the way of
climbing, manifested an intention to hazard his reputation by making the doubtful experiment.
After looking carefully around, he selected for the attempt, a young tree near the shore, growing
at a considerable inclination from the perpendicular; and clasping it firmly, he slowly commenced
climbing, or rather creeping, along the slanting trunk, while Johnny watched the operation
from below, with an interest as intense as if the fate of empires depended upon the result.

Max, who evidently considered his character at stake, and who climbed for "glory," rather than
for cocoa-nuts, proceeded with caution and perseverance.  Once he partly lost his hold, and
swung round to the under side of the trunk, but by a resolute and vigorous effort he promptly
recovered his position, and finally succeeded in establishing himself quite comfortably among
the enormous leaves that drooped from the top of the tree.  Here he seemed disposed to rest
for a while, after his arduous and triumphant exertions, and he sat, looking complacently down
upon us from his elevated position, without making any attempt to secure the fruit which hung
within his reach in abundant clusters.

"Hurrah!" cried Johnny, capering about and clapping his hands with glee, as soon as this much
desired consummation was attained, "Now, Max, pitch down the nuts!"

Having teased Johnny, and enjoyed the impatience caused by the tantalising deliberation of
his own movements, Max detached two entire clusters of nuts from the tree, which furnished
us an abundant supply.

Selecting a pleasant spot beside the beach, we sat down to discuss the cocoa-nuts at our leisure,
which occupied us some little time.  Upon looking round, after we had finished, we discovered
that our convoy had disappeared, and Johnny, whose imagination was continually haunted by visionary
savages and cannibals, manifested considerable uneasiness upon finding that we were alone.

As the sun was already low in the west, and we supposed that the party engaged in getting wood
had, in all probability, finished their work, we concluded to return, and to wait for Mr Frazer,
and the rest of the shore party at the boats, if we should not find them already there.

As we skirted the border of the grove, on our return, Johnny every now and then cast an uneasy
glance towards its darkening recesses, as though expecting to see some wild animal, or a yelling
troop of tattooed islanders rush out upon us.  The forest commenced about two hundred yards
from the beach, from which there was a gradual ascent and was composed of a greater variety
of trees than I had observed on the other islands of a similar size at which we had previously
landed.  Arthur called our attention to a singular and picturesque group of Tournefortias,
in the midst of which, like a patriarch surrounded by his family, stood one of uncommon size,
and covered with a species of fern, which gave it a striking and remarkable appearance.  The
group covered a little knoll, that crowned a piece of rising ground, advanced a short distance
beyond the edge of the forest.  It was a favourable spot for a survey of the scene around us.
The sun, now hastening to his setting, was tingeing all the western ocean with a rich vermilion
glow.  The smooth white beach before us, upon which the long-rolling waves broke in even succession,
retired in a graceful curve to the right and was broken on the left by the wooded point already
mentioned.

As you looked inland, the undulating surface of the island, rising gradually from the shore,
and covered with the wild and luxuriant vegetation of the tropics, delighted the eye by its
beauty and variety. The noble Bread-fruit tree--its arching branches clothed with its peculiarly
rich and glossy foliage; the elegantly shaped Casuarina, the luxuriant Pandanus, and the Palms,
with their stately trunks, and green crests of nodding leaves, imparted to the scene a character
of oriental beauty.

"Why do they call so lovely a spot as this a desert island, I wonder?" exclaimed Johnny, after
gazing around him a few moments in silence.

"Did you ever hear of a desert island that wasn't a lovely spot!" answered Max.  "Why, your
regular desert island should combine the richest productions of the temperate, torrid, and
frigid zones--a choice selection of the fruits, flowers, vegetables, and animal; of Europe,
Asia, and Africa.  This would by no means come up to the average standard.  I doubt if you
could find upon it so much as a goat or a poll-parrot much less an `onager,' a buffalo, or
a boa-constrictor, some of which at least are indispensable to a desert island of any respectability."

"Why, then, do they call such delightful places desert islands!" repeated Johnny.  "I always
thought a desert was a barren wilderness, where there was nothing to be seen but sand, and
rocks, and Arabs."

"I believe they are more properly called desolate islands," said Arthur; "and that seems proper
enough; for even this island with all its beauty, is supposed to be uninhabited, and it would
be a very lonely and desolate home.  Would you like to live here, Johnny, like Robinson Crusoe,
or the Swiss family?"

"Not all alone, like Robinson Crusoe.  O no! that would be horrible; but I think we might all
of us together live here beautifully a little while, if we had plenty of provisions, and plenty
of arms to defend ourselves against the savages; and then of course we should want a house
to live in, too."

"Nonsense," said Max, "what should we want of provisions?--the sea is full of fish, and the
forest of birds; the trees are loaded with fruit; there are oysters and other shell-fish in
the bays, and no doubt there are various roots, good for food, to be had by digging for them.
As to a house, we might sleep very comfortably, in such weather as this, under these Tournefortias,
and never so much as think of taking cold; or we could soon build a serviceable hut, which
would be proof against sun and rain, of the trunks and boughs of trees, with a thatch of palm-leaves
for a roof.  Then in regard to arms, of course, if it should be our fate to set up for desert
islanders, we should be well supplied in that line. I never heard of any one, from Robinson
Crusoe down, being cast away on a desert island, without a good store of guns, pistols, cutlasses,
etcetera, etcetera.  Such a thing would be contrary to all precedent, and is not for a moment
to be dreamed of."

"But we haven't any arms," said Johnny, "except those old rusty cutlasses that Spot put into
the yawl, and if we should be cast away, or left here, for instance, where should we get them
from?"

"O, but we are not cast away yet," replied Max.  "This is the way the thing always happens.
When people are cast away, it is in a ship, of course."

"Why, yes; I suppose so," said Johnny, rather doubtfully.  "Well--the ship is always abundantly
supplied with every thing necessary to a desert island life; she is driven ashore; the castaways--the
future desert islanders--by dint of wonderful good fortune, get safely to land; the rest of
course are all drowned, and so disposed of; then, in due time, the ship goes to pieces, and
every thing needful is washed ashore and secured by the islanders--that's the regular course
of things--isn't it, Arthur!"

"Yes, I believe it is, according to the story-books, which are the standard sources of information
on the subject."

"Or sometimes," pursued Max, "the ship gets comfortably wedged in between two convenient rocks,
(which seem to have been designed for that special purpose), so that the castaways can go out
to it on a raft, or float of some kind, and carry off every thing they want--and singularly
enough, although the vessel is always on the point of going to pieces, that catastrophe never
takes place, until every thing which can be of any use is secured."

"Do you suppose, Arthur," inquired Johnny, "that there are many uninhabited islands, that have
never been discovered!"

"There are believed to be a great many of them," answered Arthur, "and it is supposed that
new ones are constantly being formed by the labours of the coral insect.  A bare ledge of coral
first appears, just at the surface; it arrests floating substances, weeds, trees, etcetera;
soon the sea-birds begin to resort there; by the decay of vegetable and animal matter a thin
soil gradually covers the foundation of coral; a cocoa-nut is drifted upon it by the winds,
or the currents of the sea; it takes root, springs up, its fruit ripens and falls, and in a
few years the whole new-formed island is covered with waving groves."

"Mr Frazer says he has no doubt that these seas swarm with such islands, and that many of them
have never been discovered," said Max; besides, here's poetry for it:--

  "`O many are the beauteous isles,
  Unseen by human eye,
  That sleeping 'mid the Ocean smiles,
  In happy silence lie.
  The ship may pass them in the night,
  Nor the sailors know what lovely sight
  Is sleeping on the main;'

"But this poetical testimony will make Arthur doubt the fact altogether."

"Not exactly," answered Arthur, "though I am free to admit that without Mr Frazer's opinion
to back it your poetical testimony would not go very far with me."

"Hark!  There go Mr Frazer's two barrels," cried Max, as two reports in quick succession were
heard, coming apparently from the grove, in the direction of the spring; "he has probably come
across a couple of `rare specimens,' to be added to his stuffed collection."

CHAPTER THREE.

THE ALARM AND THE CONFLICT.

THE MUTINEERS--THE RACE FOR LIFE--THE CORAL LEDGE--A FINAL EFFORT--A BRIEF WARNING--THE STRANGE
SAIL.

  "Now bend the straining rowers to their oars;
  Fast the light shallops leave the lessening shores,
  No rival crews in emulous sport contend,
  But life and death upon the event depend."

The next moment we were startled by a quick, fierce shout, followed immediately by a long,
piercing, and distressful cry, proceeding from the same quarter from which the reports of fire-arms
had been heard; and before we had time to conjecture the cause or meaning of these frightful
sounds, Morton bounded like a deer from the grove, about a hundred yards from the spot where
we were standing, and ran swiftly towards us, crying out--"To the boats! for your lives to
the boats!"

Our first thought was, that the party at the spring had been attacked and massacred by the
natives.  Arthur seized Johnny by one hand, and motioned to me to take the other, which I did,
and without stopping to demand any explanations, we started at a rapid pace, in the direction
of the yawl, Max taking the lead--Arthur and myself, dragging Johnny between us, coming next,
and Morton a few paces behind us, bringing up the rear.  It took but a few moments to enable
us to reach the spot where the yawl lay, hauled up upon the beach.  There was no one in her,
or in sight, except Browne, who was comfortably stretched out near the boat sound asleep, with
an open book lying beside him.

Morton aroused the sleeper by a violent shake.  "Now, then," cried he, "let us get the boat
into the water; the tide is down, and the yawl is heavy; we shall want all the strength we
can muster."

By a united effort we got the yawl to the edge of the surf.

Browne, though not yet thoroughly awake, could not but observe our pale faces and excited appearance,
and gazing from one to another in a bewildered manner, he asked what was the matter; but no
one made any answer.  Morton lifted Johnny into the boat and asked the rest of us to get in,
except Arthur, saying that they two would push her through the surf.

"Hold!" cried Arthur, "let us not be too fast; some of the others may escape the savages, and
they will naturally run this way--we must not leave them to be murdered."

"There are no savages in the case," answered Morton, "and there is no time to be lost; the
men have killed the first officer, and Mr Frazer, too, I fear; and they will take the ship
and commit more murders, unless we can get there before them, to warn those on board."

This was more horrible than any thing that we had anticipated; but we had no time to dwell
upon it: the sound of oars rattling in the row-locks, was heard from beyond the point.

"There are the mutineers!" cried Morton; "but I think that we have the advantage of them; they
must pull round yonder point, which will make at least a quarter of a mile's difference in
the distance to the ship."

"There is no use in trying to get to the ship before them," said Max, "the long-boat pulls
eight oars, and there are men enough to fill her."

"There is use in trying; it would be shameful not to try; if they pull most oars, ours is the
lightest boat," answered Morton with vehemence.

"It us out of the question," said Browne; "see, is there any hope that we can succeed?" and
he pointed to the bow of the long-boat just appearing from behind the point.

"O, but this is not right!--Browne!  Max! in the name of all that is honourable, let us make
the attempt," urged Morton, laying a hand in an imploring manner on the arm of each.  "Shall
we let them take the ship and murder our friends, without an effort to warn them of their danger?
You, Arthur, are for making the attempt, I know--this delay is wrong: the time is precious."

"Yes, let us try it," said Arthur, glancing rapidly from the long-boat to the ship, "if we
fail, no harm is done, except that we incur the anger of the mutineers.  I, for one, am willing
to take the risk."

Max sprang into the boat, and seized an oar without another word.

"You know well, that I am willing to share any danger with the rest, and that it was not the
danger that made me hesitate," said Browne, laying his hand on Morton's shoulder, and looking
earnestly into his face; and then, in his usual deliberate manner, he followed Max's example.

Morton, Arthur, and myself now pushed the boat into the surf and sprang in.  At Arthur's request,
I took the rudder; he and Morton seized the two remaining oars, and the four commenced pulling
with a degree of coolness and vigour, that would not have disgraced older and more practised
oarsmen.  As I saw the manner in which they bent to their work, and the progress we were making,
I began to think our chance of reaching the ship before the crew of the long-boat, by no means
desperate.

Morton, in spite of his slender figure and youthful appearance, which his fresh, ruddy complexion,
blue eyes, and brown curling locks, rendered almost effeminate, possessed extraordinary strength,
and indomitable energy.

Browne, though his rather heavy frame and breadth of shoulders gave him the appearance of greater
strength than he actually possessed, was undoubtedly capable, when aroused, of more powerful
temporary exertion than any other of our number; though in point of activity and endurance,
he would scarcely equal Morton or Arthur.  Max, too, was vigorous and active, and, when stimulated
by danger or emulation, was capable of powerful effort.  Arthur, though of slight and delicate
frame, was compact and well knit, and his coolness, judgment and resolution, enabled him to
dispose of his strength to the best advantage.  All were animated by that high and generous
spirit which is of greater value in an emergency than any amount of mere physical strength;
a spirit which often stimulates the feeble to efforts as surprising to him who puts them forth,
as to those who witness them.

Browne had the bow-oar, and putting his whole force into every stroke, was pulling like a giant.
Morton, who was on the same side, handled his oar with less excitement and effort but with
greater precision and equal efficiency.  It was plain that these two were pulling Max and Arthur
round, and turning the boat from her course; and as I had not yet succeeded in shipping the
rudder, which was rendered difficult by the rising and falling of the boat, and the sudden
impulse she received from every stroke, I requested Browne and Morton to pull more gently.
Just as I had succeeded in getting the rudder hung, the crew of the long-boat seemed to have
first observed us.  They had cleared the point to the southward, and we were, perhaps, a hundred
yards nearer the long point, beyond which we could see the masts of the ship, and on doubling
which, we should be almost within hail of her.  The latter point, was probably a little more
than half a mile distant from us, and towards the head of it, both boats were steering.  The
long-boat was pulling eight oars, and Luerson, the man who had had the difficulty with the
first officer at the Kingsmill Islands, was at the helm.  As soon as he observed us, he appeared
to speak to the crew of his boat, and they commenced pulling with greater vigour than before.
He then hailed us,--"Holloa, lads! where's Frazer?  Are you going to leave him on the island!"

We pulled on in silence.

"He is looking for you now, somewhere along shore; he left us, just below the point, to find
you; you had better pull back and bring him off."

"All a trick," said Morton; "don't waste any breath with them;" and we bent to the oars with
new energy.

"The young scamps mean to give the alarm," I could hear Luerson mutter with an oath, as he
surveyed, for a moment, the interval between the two boats, and then the distance to the point.

"There's no use of mincing matters, my lads," he cried, standing up in the stem; "we have knocked
the first officer on the head, and served some of those who didn't approve of the proceeding
in the same way; and now we are going to take the ship."

"We know it, and intend to prevent you," cried Morton, panting with the violence of his exertions.

"Unship your oars till we pass you, and you shall not be hurt," pursued Luerson in the same
breath; "pull another stroke at them, and I will serve you like your friend, Frazer, and he
lies at the spring with his throat slit!"

The ruffian's design, in this savage threat, was doubtless to terrify us into submission; or,
at least, so to appal and agitate us, as to make our exertions more confused and feeble.  In
this last calculation he may have been partially correct, for the threat was fearful, and the
danger imminent; the harsh, deep tones of his voice, with the ferocious determination of his
manner, sent a thrill of horror to every heart. More than this, he could not effect; there
was not a craven spirit among our number.

"Steadily!" said Arthur, in a low, collected tone; "less than five minutes will bring us within
hail of the ship."

But the minutes seemed hours, amid such tremendous exertions, and such intense anxiety.  The
sweat streamed from the faces of the rowers; they gasped and panted for breath; the swollen
veins stood out on their foreheads.

"Perhaps," cried Luerson, after a pause, "perhaps there is some one in that boat who desires
to save his life; whoever drops his oar shall not be harmed; the rest die."

A scornful laugh from Morton was the only answer to this tempting offer.

Luerson now stooped for a moment and seemed to be groping for something in the bottom of the
boat.  When he rose, it was with a musket or fowling-piece in his hands, which he cocked, and,
coming forward to the bow, levelled towards us.

"Once more," he cried, "and once for all, drop your oars, or I fire among you."

"I don't believe it is loaded," said Arthur, "or he would have used it sooner."

"I think it is Frazer's gun," said Morton, "and he fired both barrels before they murdered
him; there has been no time to reload it."

The event showed the truth of these suspicions; for, upon seeing that his threat produced no
effect, Luerson resumed his seat in the bows, the helm having been given to one of the men
not at the oars.

We were now close upon the point, and, as I glanced from our pursuers to the ship, I began
to breathe more freely.  They had gained upon us; but it was inch by inch, and the goal was
now at hand.  The long-boat, though pulling eight oars, and those of greater length than ours,
was a clumsier boat than the yawl, and at present heavily loaded; we had almost held our own
with them thus far.

But now Luerson sprang up once more in the bow of the long-boat, and presented towards us the
weapon with which he had a moment before threatened us; and this time it was no idle menace.
A puff of smoke rose from the muzzle of the piece, and, just as the sharp report reached our
ears, Browne uttered a quick exclamation of pain, and let fall his oar.

For a moment all was confusion and alarm; but Browne, who had seized his oar again almost instantly,
declared that he was not hurt; that the ball had merely grazed the skin of his arm; and he
attempted to recommence rowing; before, however, he had pulled half-a-dozen strokes, his right
hand was covered with the blood which streamed down his arm.

I now insisted on taking his oar, and he took my place at the helm.

While this change was being effected, our pursuers gained upon us perceptibly.  Every moment
was precious.  Luerson urged his men to greater efforts; the turning point of the struggle
was now at hand, and the excitement became terrible.

"Steer close in; it will save something in distance," gasped Morton, almost choking for breath.

"Not too close," panted Arthur; "don't get us aground."

"There is no danger of that," answered Morton, "it is deep, off the point."

Almost as he spoke, a sharp, grating sound was heard, beneath the bottom of the boat, and our
progress was arrested with a suddenness that threw Max and myself from our seats.  We were
upon a ledge of coral, which at a time of less excitement we could scarcely have failed to
have observed and avoided, from the manner in which the sea broke upon it.

A shout of mingled exultation and derision, as they witnessed this disaster, greeted us from
the long-boat, which was ploughing through the water, but a little way behind us, and some
twenty yards further out from the shore.

"It is all up," said Morton, bitterly, dropping his oar.

"Back water!  Her stern still swings free," cried Arthur, "the next swell will lift her clear."

We got as far aft as possible, to lighten the bows; a huge wave broke upon the ledge, and drenched
us with spray, but the yawl still grated upon the coral.

Luerson probably deemed himself secure of a more convenient opportunity, at no distant period,
to wreak his vengeance upon us: at any rate there was no time for it now; he merely menaced
us with his clenched fist, as they swept by.  Almost at the same moment a great sea came rolling
smoothly in, and, as our oars dipped to back water, we floated free: then a few vigorous strokes
carried us to a safe distance from the treacherous shoal.

"One effort more!" cried Arthur, as the mutineers disappeared behind the point; "we are not
yet too late to give them a warning, though it will be but a short one."

Again we bent to the oars, and in a moment we too had doubled the point, and were in the wake
of the long-boat.  The ship lay directly before us, and within long hailing distance.

"Now, comrades, let us shout together, and try to make them understand their danger," said
Browne, standing up in the stern.

"A dozen strokes more," said Arthur, "and we can do it with more certain success."

Luerson merely glanced back at us, as he once more heard the dash of our oars; but he took
no farther notice of us: the crisis was too close at hand.

On board the ship all seemed quiet.  Some of the men were gathered together on the starboard
bow, apparently engaged in fishing; they did not seem to notice the approach of the boats.

"Now, then!" cried Arthur, at length, unshipping his oar, and springing to his feet, "one united
effort to attract their attention--all together--now, then!" and we sent up a cry that echoed
wildly across the water, and startled the idlers congregated at the bows, who came running
to the side of the vessel nearest us.

"We have got their attention; now hail them," said Arthur, turning to Browne, who had a deep
powerful voice; "tell them not to let the long-boat board them."

Browne put his hands to his mouth, and in tones that could have been distinctly heard twice
the distance, shouted--"Look-out for the long-boat--don't let them board you--the men have
killed the first officer, and want to take the ship!"  From the stir and confusion that followed,
it was clear that the warning was understood.

But the mutineers were now scarcely twenty yards from the vessel, towards which they were ploughing
their way with unabated speed.  The next moment they were under her bows; just as their oars
flew into the air, we could hear a deep voice from the deck, sternly ordering them to "keep
off," and I thought that I could distinguish Captain Erskine standing near the bowsprit.

The mutineers gave no heed to the order; several of them sprang into the chains, and Luerson
among the rest.  A fierce, though unequal struggle, at once commenced.  The captain, armed
with a weapon which he wielded with both hands, and which I took to be a capstan-bar, struck
right and left among the boarders as they attempted to gain the deck, and one, at least of
them, fell back with a heavy plunge into the water.  But the captain seemed to be almost unsupported;
and the mutineers had nearly all reached the deck, and were pressing upon him.

"Oh, but this is a cruel sight!" said Browne, turning away with a shudder.  "Comrades, can
we do nothing more?"

Morton, who had been groping beneath the sail in the bottom of the boat now dragged forth the
cutlasses which Spot had insisted on placing there when we went ashore.

"Here are arms!" he exclaimed, "we are not such boys, but that we can take a part in what is
going on--let us pull to the ship!"

"What say you!" cried Arthur, glancing inquiringly from one to another; "we can't, perhaps,
do much, but shall we sit here and see Mr Erskine murdered, without trying to help him!"

"Friends, let us to the ship!" cried Browne, with deep emotion, "I am ready."

"And I!" gasped Max, pale with excitement, "we can but be killed."

Can we hope to turn the scale of this unequal strife? shall we do more than arrive at the scene
of conflict in time to experience the vengeance of the victorious mutineers?--such were the
thoughts that flew hurriedly through my mind.  I was entirely unaccustomed to scenes of violence
and bloodshed, and my head swam, and my heart sickened, as I gazed at the confused conflict
raging on the vessel's deck, and heard the shouts and cries of the combatants.  Yet I felt
an inward recoil against the baseness of sitting an idle spectator of such a struggle.  A glance
at the lion-hearted Erskine still maintaining the unequal fight, was an appeal to every noble
and generous feeling: it nerved me for the attempt, and though I trembled as I grasped an oar,
it was with excitement and eagerness, not with fear.

The yawl had hardly received the first impulse in the direction of the ship, when the report
of fire-arms was heard.

"Merciful heavens!" cried Morton, "the captain is down! that fiend Luerson has shot him!"

The figure which I had taken for that of Mr Erskine, was no longer to be distinguished among
the combatants, some person was now dragged to the side of the ship towards us, and thrown
overboard; he sunk after a feeble struggle; a triumphant shout followed, and then two men were
seen running up the rigging.

"There goes poor Spot up to the foretop," said Max, pointing to one of the figures in the rigging;
"he can only gain time at the best but it can't be that they'll kill him in cold blood."

"Luerson is just the man to do it," answered Morton; "the faithful fellow has stood by the
captain, and that will seal his fate--look! it is as I said," and I could see some one pointing,
what was doubtless Mr Frazer's fowling-piece, at the figure in the foretop.  A parley seemed
to follow; as the result of which, the fugitive came down and surrendered himself.  The struggle
now appeared to be over, and quiet was once more restored.

So rapidly had these events passed, and so stunning was their effect, that it was some moments
before we could collect our thoughts, or fully realise our situation; and we sat, silent and
bewildered, gazing toward the ship.

Max was the first to break silence; "And now, what's to be done?" he said, "as to going aboard,
that is of course out of the question: the ship is no longer our home."

"I don't know what we can do," said Morton, "except to pull ashore, and stand the chance of
being taken off by some vessel, before we starve."

"Here is something better," cried Max eagerly, pointing out to sea; and, looking in the direction
indicated, we saw a large ship, with all her sails set, steering directly for us, or so nearly
so, as to make it apparent that if she held on her present course, she must pass very near
to us.  Had we not been entirely engrossed by what was taking place immediately around us,
we could not have failed to have seen her sooner, as she must have been in sight a considerable
time.

"They have already seen her on board," said Morton, "and that accounts for their great hurry
in getting up anchor; they don't feel like being neighbourly just now, with strange vessels."

In fact, there was every indication on board of our own ship, of haste, and eagerness to be
gone.  While some of the men were at the capstan, getting up the anchor, others were busy in
the rigging, and sail after sail was rapidly spread to the breeze, so that by the time the
anchor was at the bows, the ship began to move slowly through the water.

"They don't seem to consider us of much account anyway," said Max, "they are going without
so much as saying good-bye."

"They may know more of the stranger than we do," said Arthur, "they have glasses on board;
if she should be an American man-of-war, their hurry is easily explained."

"I can't help believing that they see or suspect more, in regard to her, than appears to us,"
said Morton, "or they would not fail to make an attempt to recover the yawl."

"It is rapidly getting dark," said Arthur, "and I think we had better put up the sail, and
steer for the stranger."

"Right," said Morton, "for she may possibly tack before she sees us."

Morton and myself proceeded to step the mast, and rig the sail; meantime, Arthur got Browne's
coat off, and examined and bandaged the wound on his arm, which had been bleeding all the while
profusely; he pronounced it to be but a trifling hurt.  A breeze from the south-east had sprung
up at sunset, and we now had a free wind to fill our sail, as we steered directly out to sea
to meet the stranger, which was still at too great a distance to make it probable that we had
been seen by her people.

It was with a feeling of anxiety and uneasiness, that I saw the faint twilight fading away,
with the suddenness usual in those latitudes, and the darkness gathering rapidly round us.
Already the east was wrapped in gloom, and only a faint streak of light along the western horizon
marked the spot where the sun had so recently disappeared.

"How suddenly the night has come upon us," said Arthur, who had been peering through the dusk
toward the approaching vessel, in anxious silence; "O, for twenty minutes more of daylight!
I fear that she is about tacking."

This announcement filled us all with dismay, and every eye was strained towards her with intense
and painful interest.

Meantime, the breeze had freshened somewhat and we now had rather more of it than we desired,
as our little boat was but poorly fitted to navigate the open ocean in rough weather.  Johnny
began to manifest some alarm, as we were tossed like a chip from wave to wave, and occasionally
deluged with spray, by a sea bursting with a rude shock over our bow.  I had not even in the
violent storm of the preceding week, experienced such a sense of insecurity, such a feeling
of helplessness, as now, when the actual danger was comparatively slight.  The waves seemed
tenfold larger and more threatening than when viewed from the deck of a large vessel.  As we
sunk into the trough of the sea, our horizon was contracted to the breadth of half-a-dozen
yards, and we entirely lost sight of the land, and of both ships.

But it was evident that we were moving through the water with considerable velocity, and there
was encouragement in that, for we felt confident that if the stranger should hold on her present
course but a little longer, we should be on board of her before our safety would be seriously
endangered by the increasing breeze.

If, however, she were really tacking, our situation would indeed be critical.  A very few moments
put a period to our suspense by confirming Arthur's opinion, and our worst fears; the stranger
had altered her course, her yards were braced round, and she was standing further out to sea.
Still, however, there would have been a possibility of reaching her, but for the failure of
light, for she had not so far changed her course, but that she would have to pass a point,
which we could probably gain before her.  But now, it was with difficulty, and only by means
of the cloud of canvass she carried, that we could distinguish her through the momently deepening
gloom; and with sinking hearts we relinquished the last hopes connected with her.  Soon she
entirely vanished from our sight, and when we gazed anxiously around the narrow horizon that
now bounded our vision, sky and water alone met our view.

CHAPTER FOUR.

AT SEA.

A NIGHT OF GLOOM--MORTON'S NARRATIVE--VISIONARY TERRORS--AN ALARMING DISCOVERY.

  "O'er the deep! o'er the deep!
  Where the whale, and the shark, and the sword-fish sleep."

Even in open day, the distance of a few miles would be sufficient to sink the low shores of
the island; and now that night had so suddenly overtaken us, it might be quite near, without
our being able to distinguish it.

We were even uncertain, and divided in opinion, as to the direction in which it lay--so completely
were we bewildered.  The night was one of deep and utter gloom.  There was no moon; and not
a single star shed its feeble light over the wilderness of agitated waters, upon which our
little boat was tossing.  Heavy, low-hanging clouds, covered the sky; but soon, even these
could no longer be distinguished; a cold, damp mist, dense, and almost palpable to the touch,
crept over the ocean, and enveloped us so closely, that it was impossible to see clearly from
one end of the yawl to the other.

The wind, however, instead of freshening, as we had feared, died gradually away.  For this,
we had reason to be thankful; for though our situation that night seemed dismal enough, yet
how much more fearful would it have been, if the rage of the elements, and danger of immediate
destruction, had been added to the other circumstances of terror by which we were surrounded?

As it was, however, the sea having gone down, we supposed ourselves to be in no great or pressing
peril.  Though miserably uncomfortable, and somewhat agitated and anxious, we yet confidently
expected that the light of morning would show us the land again.

The terrible and exciting scenes through which we had so recently passed, had completely exhausted
us, and we were too much overwhelmed by the suddenness of our calamity, and the novel situation
in which we now found ourselves, to be greatly disposed to talk.  Johnny sobbed himself asleep
in Arthur's arms; and even Max's usual spirits seemed now to have quite forsaken him.  After
the mast had been unstepped, and such preparations as our circumstances permitted were made,
for passing the night comfortably, Morton related all that he knew of what had taken place
on shore, previous to the alarm which he had given.

I repeat the narrative as nearly as possible in his own words, not perhaps altogether as he
related it on that night, for the circumstances were not then favourable to a full and orderly
account, but partly as I afterwards, in various conversations, gathered the particulars from him.

"You recollect," said he, "that we separated at the boats; Mr Frazer and the rest of you, going
along the shore towards the point, leaving Browne declaiming Byron's Address to the Ocean,
from the top of a coral block, with myself and the breakers for an audience.  Shortly afterwards,
I strolled off towards the interior, and left Browne lying on the sand, with his pocket Shakespeare,
where we found him, when we reached the boats.  I kept on inland, until the forest became so
dense, and was so overgrown with tangled vines and creeping plants, that I could penetrate
no farther in that direction.  In endeavouring to return, I got bewildered, and at length fairly
lost, having no clear notion as to the direction of the beach.  The groves were so thick and
dark as to shut out the light almost entirely; and I could not get a glimpse of the sun so
as to fix the points of the compass.  At last I came to an opening, large enough to let in
the light, and show which way the shadows fell.  Knowing that we had landed on the west side
of the island, I could now select my course without hesitation.  It was getting late in the
afternoon, and I walked as fast as the nature of the ground would allow, until I unexpectedly
found myself at the edge of the grove, east of the spring where the men were at work filling
the breakers.  The moment I came in sight of them, I perceived that something unusual was taking
place.  The first officer and Luerson were standing opposite each other, and the men, pausing
from their work, were looking on.  As I inferred, Mr Nichol had given some order, which Luerson
had refused to obey.  Both looked excited, but no words passed between them after I reached
the place.  There was a pause of nearly a minute, when Mr Nichol advanced as if to lay hands
on Luerson, and the latter struck him a blow with his cooper's mallet, which he held in his
hand, and knocked him down.  Before he had time to rise, Atoa, the Sandwich Islander, sprang
upon him, and stabbed him twice with his belt-knife.  All this passed so rapidly, that no one
had a chance to interfere--"

"Hark!" said Browne, interrupting the narration, "what noise is that? It sounds like the breaking
of the surf upon the shore."

But the rest of us could distinguish no sound except the washing of the waves against the boat.
The eye was of no assistance in deciding whether we were near the shore or not, as it was impossible
to penetrate the murky darkness, a yard in any direction.

"We must be vigilant," said Arthur, "the land cannot be far-off, and we may be drifted upon
it before morning."

After listening for some moments in anxious silence, we became satisfied that Browne had been
mistaken, and Morton proceeded.

"Just as Atoa sprang upon Mr Nichol and stabbed him, Mr Knight, who was the first to recover
his presence of mind, seized the murderer, and wrenched the knife from his hand, at the same
time calling on the men to secure Luerson; but no one stirred to do so.  A part seemed confused
and undecided; while others appeared to me, to have been fully prepared for what had taken
place.  One man stepped forward near Luerson, and declared in a brutal and excited manner,
that `Nichol was a bloody tyrant, and had got what he deserved, and that no man could blame
Luerson for taking his revenge, after being treated as he had been.' For a moment all was clamour
and confusion; then Luerson approached Mr Knight in a threatening manner, and bade him loose
Atoa, instead of which, he held his prisoner firmly with one hand, and warning Luerson off
with the other, called on the men to stand by their officers.  Just at this moment, Mr Frazer,
with his gun on his shoulder, came out of the grove from the side toward the shore, and to
him Mr Knight eagerly appealed for assistance in securing the murderers of Mr Nichol. Pointing
from the bleeding corpse at his feet, to Luerson, he said--`There is the ringleader--shoot
him through the head at once, and that will finish the matter--otherwise we shall all be murdered--fire,
I will answer for the act?'

"Frazer seemed to comprehend the situation of things at a glance.  With great presence of mind,
he stepped back a pace, and bringing his gun to his shoulder, called on Luerson to throw down
his weapon, and surrender himself, declaring that he would shoot the first man who lifted a
hand to assist him.  His manner was such as to leave no doubt of his sincerity, or his resolution.
The men had no fire-arms, and were staggered by the suddenness of the thing; they stood hesitating
and undecided.  Mr Knight seized this as a favourable moment, and advanced upon Luerson, with
the intention of securing him, and the islander was thus left free.  At this moment I observed
the man who had denounced Mr Nichol, and justified Luerson, stealing round behind Frazer. 
I called out to him at the top of my voice to warn him; but he did not seem to hear.  I looked
for something which might serve me for a weapon; but there was nothing, not so much as a broken
bough within reach, and in another instant, the whole thing was over.  As Knight grappled with
Luerson, he dropped the knife which he had wrested from Atoa, his intention evidently being
to secure, and not to kill him.

"Atoa immediately leaped forward and seized the knife, and had his arm already raised to stab
Mr Knight in the back, when Frazer shot him dead.  At almost the same instant, Luerson struck
Mr Knight a tremendous blow on the head with his mallet, which felled him to the earth, stunned
and lifeless.  He next rushed upon Frazer, who had fairly covered him with the muzzle of his
piece, and would inevitably have shot him, but just as he pulled the trigger, the man whom
I had seen creeping round behind him, sprang upon him, and deranged his aim; two or three of
the others, who had stood looking on, taking no part in the affair, now interposed, and by
their assistance Frazer was overpowered and secured. Whether they murdered him or not, as Luerson
afterwards declared, I do not know.  As soon as the struggle was over, the man who had seconded
Luerson so actively throughout, (the tall dark man who goes by the name of `the Boatswain,')
shouted out, `Now, then, for the ship!'  `Yes, for the ship!' cried Luerson, `though this has
not come about just as was arranged, and has been hurried on sooner than we expected; it is
as well so as any way, and must be followed up.  There's no one aboard but the captain, and
four or five men and boys, all told: the landsmen are all ashore, scattered over the island.
We can take her without risk--and then for a merry life at the islands!'

"This revealed the designs of the mutineers, and I determined to anticipate them if possible.
As I started for the beach I was observed, and they hailed me; but without paying any attention
to their shouts, I ran as fast, at least, as I ever ran before, until I came out of the forest,
near where you were standing."

From the words of Luerson which Morton had heard, it was clear that the mutiny had not been
a sudden and unpremeditated act; and we had no doubt that it had grown out of the difficulties
at the Kingsmills, between him and the unfortunate Mr Nichol.

It was quite late before we felt any disposition to sleep; but notwithstanding the excitement
and the discomforts of our situation, we began at length to experience the effects of the fatigue
and anxiety which we had undergone, and bestowing ourselves as conveniently as possible about
the boat, which furnished but slender accommodations for such a number, we bade each other
the accustomed "good night," and one by one dropped asleep.

Knowing that we could not be far from land, and aware of our liability to be drifted ashore
during the night, it had been decided to maintain a watch.  Arthur, Morton, and I had agreed
to divide the time between us as accurately as possible, and to relieve one another in turn.
The first watch fell to Arthur, the last to me, and, after exacting a promise from Morton,
that he would not fail to awaken me when it was fairly my turn, I laid down upon the ceiling
planks, close against the side of the boat between which, and Browne, who was next me, there
was barely room to squeeze myself.

It was a dreary night.  The air was damp, and even chilly.  The weltering of the waves upon
the outside of the thin plank against which my head was pressed, made a dismal kind of music,
and suggested vividly how frail was the only barrier that separated us from the wide, dark
waste of waters, below and around.

The heavy, dirge-like swell of the ocean, though soothing, in the regularity and monotony of
its sluggish motion, sounded inexpressibly mournful.

The gloom of the night, and the tragic scenes of the day, seemed to give character to my dreams,
for they were dark and hideous, and so terribly vivid, that I several times awoke strangely
agitated.

At one time I saw Luerson, with a countenance of supernatural malignity, and the expression
of a fiend, murdering poor Frazer.  At another, our boat seemed drawn by some irresistible,
but unseen power, to the verge of a yawning abyss, and began to descend between green-glancing
walls of water, to vast depths, where undescribed sea-monsters, never seen upon the surface,
glided about in an obscurity that increased their hideousness.  Suddenly the feeble light that
streamed down into the gulf through the green translucent sea, seemed to be cut off; the liquid
walls closed above our heads; and we were whirled away, with the sound of rushing waters, and
in utter darkness.

All this was vague and confused, and consisted of the usual "stuff that dreams are made of."
What followed, was wonderfully vivid and real: every thing was as distinct as a picture, and
it has left an indelible impression upon my mind; there was something about it far more awful
than all the half-defined shapes and images of terror that preceded it.

I seemed to be all alone, in our little boat, in the midst of the sea. It was night--and what
a night! not a breath of wind rippled the glassy waters.  There was no moon, but the sky was
cloudless, and the stars were out, in solemn and mysterious beauty.  Every thing seemed preternaturally
still, and I felt oppressed by a strange sense of loneliness; I looked round in vain for some
familiar object, the sight of which might afford me relief.  But far, far as the eye could
reach, to the last verge of the horizon, where the gleaming sapphire vault closed down upon
the sea, stretched one wide, desolate, unbroken expanse.  I seemed to be isolated and cut off
from all living things:

  "Alone--alone, all, all alone!
  Alone on the wide, wide sea;
  So lonely 'twas, that God himself
  Scarce seemed there to be."

And there was something in this feeling, and in the universal, death-like silence, that was
unutterably awful.  I tried to pray--to think of God as present even there--to think of Him
as "Our Father"--as caring for and loving his creatures--and thus to escape the desolating
sense of loneliness that oppressed me.  But it was in vain; I could not pray: there was something
in the scene that mocked at faith, and seemed in harmony with the dreary creed of the atheist.
The horrible idea of a godless universe came upon me, bidding me relinquish, as a fond illusion,
the belief in a Heavenly Father,--

  "Who sees with equal eye, as Lord of all,
  A hero perish, or a sparrow fall."

Language cannot express the desolation of that thought.

Then the scene changed once more.  We were again on board the ship, and in the power of the
enraged mutineers, about to suffer whatever their vengeance might impel them to inflict.  Poor
Spot was swinging, a livid corpse, at one of the yard-arms.  Browne was bound to the main-mast,
while Luerson and his fiendish crew were exhausting their ingenuity in torturing him.  The
peculiar expression of his mild, open countenance, distorted by pain, went to my heart, and
the sound of that familiar and friendly voice, now hoarse and broken, and quivering with agony,
thrilled me with horror.  As he besought his tormentors to kill him at once, I thought that
I kneeled to Luerson, and seconded the entreaty-- the greatest favour that could be hoped from
him.  The rest of us were doomed to walk the plank.  Morton was stern and silent; Max pale
and sorrowful; his arm was round my neck, and he murmured that life was sweet, and that it
was a hard and terrible thing to die--to die so! Arthur, calm and collected, cheered and encouraged
us; and his face seemed like the face of an angel, as he spoke sweetly and solemnly, of the
goodness and the love of God, and bade us put our whole trust and hope in Christ our Saviour.
His earnest words and serene look, soothed and strengthened us; we also became calm and almost
resigned.  There was no abject fear, no useless cries, or supplications to our foes for mercy;
but the solemn sense of the awfulness of death, was mingled with a sweet and sustaining faith
in God, and Christ, and Immortality.  Hand in hand, like brothers, we were preparing to take
the fearful plunge-- when I started and awoke.

Even the recollection of our real situation was insufficient to impair the deep sense of relief
which I experienced.  My first impulse was to thank God that these were but dreams; and if
I had obeyed the next, I should have embraced heartily each of my slumbering companions; for
in the first confusion of thought and feeling, my emotions were very much what they would naturally
have been, had the scenes of visionary terror, in which we seemed to have just participated
together, been real.

Morton was at his post, and I spoke to him, scarcely knowing or caring what I said.  All I
wanted, was to hear his voice, to revive the sense of companionship, and so escape the painful
impressions which even yet clung to me.

He said that he had just commenced his watch, Arthur having called him but a few moments before.
The night was still lowering and overcast, but there was less wind and sea than when I first
laid down.  I proposed to relieve him at once, but he felt no greater inclination to sleep
than myself and we watched together until morning.  The two or three hours immediately before
dawn seemed terribly long.  Just as the first grey light appeared in the east, Arthur joined
us.  A dense volume of vapour which rested upon the water, and contributed to the obscurity
in which we were enveloped, now gathered slowly into masses, and floated upward as the day
advanced, gradually clearing the prospect; and we kept looking out for the island, in the momentary
expectation of seeing it loom up before us through the mist.  But when, as the light increased,
and the fog rolled away, the boundaries of our vision rapidly enlarged, and still no land could
be seen, we began to feel seriously alarmed.  A short period of intense and painful anxiety
followed, during which we continued alternately gazing, and waiting for more light, and again
straining our aching eyes in every direction, and still in vain.

At last it became evident that we had in some manner drifted completely away from the island.
The appalling conviction could no longer be resisted.  There we were, lost and helpless, on
the open ocean, in our chip of a boat, without provisions for a single day, or, to speak more
definitely, without a morsel of bread or a drop of water.

CHAPTER FIVE.

THE CONSULTATION.

OUT OF SIGHT OF LAND--SLENDER RESOURCES--WHAT'S TO BE DONE?

    "How rapidly, how rapidly, we ride along the sea!
  The morning is all sunshine, the wind is blowing free;
  The billows are all sparkling, and bounding in the light,
  Like creatures in whose sunny veins, the blood is running bright."

Morton alone still refused to relinquish the hope, that by broad daylight, we should yet be
able to make out the island.  He persisted in pronouncing it wholly incredible that we had
made during the night, a distance sufficient to sink the land, which was but three or four
miles off at the utmost, when we were overtaken by darkness; he could not understand, he said,
how such a thing was possible.

Arthur accounted for it, by supposing that we had got into the track of one of the ocean currents
that exist in those seas, especially among the islands, many of which run at the rate of from
two to three miles an hour.

This seemed the more probable, from the fact, that we were to the west of the island, when
we lost sight of it, and that the great equatorial current, which traverses the Pacific and
Indian oceans, has a prevailing westerly course, though among the more extensive groups and
clusters of islands, it is so often deflected hither and thither, by the obstacles which it
encounters, or turned upon itself, in eddies or counter-currents, that no certain calculations
can be made respecting it.  Morton, however, did not consider this supposition sufficient to
explain the difficulty.

"I should judge," said he, "that in a clear day, such an island might be seen fifteen or twenty
miles, and we cannot have drifted so great a distance."

"It might perhaps be seen," said Arthur, "as far as that, from the mast-head of a ship, or
even from her deck, but not from a small boat hardly raised above the surface of the water.
At our present level, eight or ten miles would be enough to sink it completely."

At length, when it was broad day, and from the appearance of the eastern sky, the sun was just
about to rise, Morton stepped the mast and climbed to the top, in the hope that from that additional
elevation, slight as it was, he might catch a glimpse of land.  There was by this time light
enough, as he admitted, to see any thing that could be seen at all, and after making a deliberate
survey of our whole horizon, he was fully convinced that we had drifted completely away from
the island.  "I give it up," he said, as he slid down the mast, "we are at sea, beyond all
question."

Presently Max awoke.  He cast a quick, surprised look around, and at first seemed greatly shocked.
He speedily recovered himself, however, and after another, and closer, scrutiny of the horizon,
thought that he detected an appearance like that of land in the south.  For a moment there
was again the flutter of excited hope, as every eye was turned eagerly in that direction; but
it soon subsided.  A brief examination satisfied us all, that what we saw, was but a low bank
of clouds lying against the sky.

"This really begins to look serious," said I; "what are we to do?"

"It strikes me," replied Morton, "that we are pretty much relieved from the necessity of considering
that question; our only part for the present seems to be a passive one."

"I can't fully persuade myself that this is real," said Max; "it half seems like an ugly dream,
from which we should awake by-and-by, and draw a long breath at the relief of finding it no
more than a dream."

"We are miserably provisioned for a sea voyage," said Morton; "but I believe the breaker is
half full of water; without that we should indeed be badly off."

"There is not a drop in it," said Arthur, shaking his head, and he lifted the breaker and shook
it lightly--it was quite empty.

He now proceeded to force open the locker, in the hope of finding them something that might
be serviceable to us; but its entire contents consisted of a coil of fine rope, some pieces
of rope-yarn, an empty quart-bottle, and an old and battered hatchet-head.

Meanwhile, Browne, without a trace of anxiety upon his upturned countenance, and Johnny, who
nestled close beside him, continued to sleep soundly, in happy unconsciousness of our alarming
situation.

"Nothing ever interferes with the soundness of Browne's sleep, or the vigour of his appetite,"
said Max, contemplating his placid slumbers with admiration.  "I should be puzzled to decide
whether sleeping, eating, or dramatic recitation, is his forte; it certainly lies between the
three."

"Poor fellow!" said Morton, "from present appearances, and the state of our supplies, he will
have to take it all out in sleeping, for some time to come, as it is to be presumed he'll hardly
feel like spouting."

"One would think that what happened yesterday, and the condition of things as we left them
last night, would be enough to disturb one's nerves somewhat; yet you see how little it affects
him--and I now predict that the first thing he will say on opening his eye; will be about the
means of breaking his long fast."

"I don't understand how you can go on in that strain, Max," said Arthur, looking up in a surprised
manner, and shaking his head disapprovingly.

"Why, I was merely endeavouring to do my share towards keeping our spirits up; but I suppose
any spirits got up under the present circumstances, must be somewhat forced, and as my motives
don't seem to be properly appreciated, I will renounce the unprofitable attempt."

The sun rose in a clear sky, and gave promise of a hot day.  There was, however, a cool and
refreshing breeze, that scattered the spray from the foaming ridges of the waves, and occasionally
showered us, not unpleasantly, with the fine liquid particles.  A sea, breaking over our bow,
dashed a bucket-full of water into Browne's face, and abruptly disturbed his slumbers.

"Good morning, comrades!" said he, sitting up, and looking about him with a perplexed and bewildered
air.  "But how is this?  Ah!  I recollect it all now.  So then, we are really out of sight
of land!"

"There is no longer any doubt of that," said Arthur, "and it is now time for us to decide what
we shall do--our chance of falling in with a ship will be quite as good, and that of reaching
land will of course be much better, if, instead of drifting like a log upon the water, we put
up our sail, and steer in almost any direction; though I think there is a choice."

"Of course there is a choice," said Morton; "the island cannot be at any great distance; and
the probability of our being able to find it again is so much greater than that of making any
other land, that we ought to steer in the direction in which we have good reason to think it
lies--that is, to the east."

"The wind, for the last twelve hours, has been pretty nearly south," observed Arthur, "and
has probably had some effect upon our position; we had better, therefore, steer a little south
of east, which, with this breeze, will be easy sailing."

To this all assented, and the sail was hoisted, and the boat's head put in the direction agreed
upon, each of us, except Johnny, sailing and steering her in turn.  There was quite as much
wind as our little craft could sail with to advantage, and without danger.  As it filled her
bit of canvass, she careered before it, leaping and plunging from wave to wave, in a manner
that sometimes seemed perilous.  The bright sky above us, the blue sea gleaming in the light
of morning, over which we sped; the dry, clear atmosphere, (now that the sun was up, and the
mist dissipated), the fresh breeze, without which we must have suffered intensely from the
heat; together with our rapid and bounding motion, had an exhilarating effect, in spite of
the gloomy anticipations that suggested themselves.

"After all," said Max, "why need we take such a dismal view of the matter?  We have a fine
staunch little boat, a good breeze, and islands all around us.  Besides, we are in the very
track of the beche de mer, and sandal-wood traders.  It would be strange indeed, if we should
fail to meet some of them soon.  In fact, if it were not for thinking of poor Frazer, and of
the horrible events of yesterday, (which, to be sure, are enough to make one sad), I should
be disposed to look upon the whole affair; as a sort of holiday adventure--something to tell
of when we get home, and to talk over pleasantly together twenty years hence."

"If we had a breaker of water, and a keg of biscuit," said Morton, "and could then be assured
of fair weather for a week, I might be able to take that view of it; as it is, I confess, that
to me, it has any thing but the aspect of a holiday adventure."

When Johnny awoke, Arthur endeavoured to soothe his alarm, by explaining to him that we had
strong hopes of being able to reach the island again, and mentioning the various circumstances
which rendered such a hope reasonable.  The little fellow, did not, however, seem to be as
much troubled as might have been expected.  He either reposed implicit confidence in the resources,
or the fortunes, of his companions, or else, did not at all realise the perils to which we
were exposed.  But this could not last long.

That which I knew Arthur had been painfully anticipating, came at last. Johnny, who had been
asking Morton a multitude of questions as to the events of the previous day, suddenly said
that he was very thirsty, and asked in the most unsuspecting manner for a drink of water. 
When he learned that the breaker was empty, and that we had not so much as a drop of water
with us, some notion of our actual situation seemed to dawn upon him, and he became, all at
once, grave and silent.

Hour after hour dragged slowly on, until the sun was in the zenith, with no change for the
better in our affairs.  It was now clear that we must give up the hope of reaching the island
which we had left, for it was certain that we had sailed farther since morning than the boat
could possibly have been drifted during the night, by the wind, or the current, or both combined.
Our calculations at the outset must therefore have been erroneous, and we had not been sailing
in the right direction.  If so, it was too late to correct the mistake; we could not regain
our starting-point, in order to steer from it another course.  We now held a second consultation.

Although we had but a general notion of our geographical position, we knew that we were in
the neighbourhood of scattered groups of low coral islands.  From the Kingsmills we were to
have sailed directly for Canton, and Max, Morton, and myself, would, before now, in all probability,
have commenced our employment in the American factory there, but for Captain Erskine's sudden
resolution to take the responsibility of returning to the Samoan Group, with the double object
of rescuing the crew of the wrecked barque, and completing his cargo, which, according to the
information received from the master of the whaler, there would be no difficulty in doing.
From Upolu, we had steered a north-westerly course, and it was on the fourth or fifth day after
leaving it, that we had reached the island where the mutiny took place, and which Mr Erskine
claimed as a discovery of his own.  Its latitude and longitude had of course been calculated,
but none of us learned the result, or at any rate remembered it.  We knew only, that we were
at no great distance from the Kingsmills, and probably to the south-west of them.

Arthur was confident, from conversations had with Mr Frazer, and from the impressions left
on his mind by his last examination of the charts, that an extensive cluster of low islands,
scattered over several degrees of latitude, lay just to the south-east of us.

It was accordingly determined to continue our present course as long as the wind should permit,
which there was reason to fear might be but a short time, as easterly winds are the prevailing
ones within the tropics, as near the line as we supposed ourselves to be.

CHAPTER SIX.

THE CALM.

THE SECOND WATCH--AN EVIL OMEN--THE WHITE SHARK--A BREAKFAST LOST.

During the remainder of the day the wind continued fair, and we held on our course, steering
by the sun, and keeping a vigilant look-out in every direction.  But the night set in, and
we had yet seen no appearance of land, no speck in the distance which could be mistaken for
a sail, not even a wandering sea-bird or a school of flying-fish-- nothing to break the dead
monotony of the briny waste we were traversing.  As I sat at the helm, taking my turn in sailing
the boat, and watched the sun go down, and saw the darkness gathering over the sea, a feeling
nearly akin to despair took possession of me.  In vain I strove to take an encouraging and
hopeful view of our circumstances. The time within which relief must come, in order to be effectual,
was so short, that I could not help feeling that the probabilities were strongly against us.
I could not shut my eyes to the fact, that dangers, imminent and real, such as we had read
and talked of, without ever half realising or dreaming that they could one day fall to our
own lot, now pressed upon us, and threatened us close at hand.  I knew that those fearful tales
of shipwreck and starvation, were only too true-- that men, lost at sea like ourselves, had
pined day after day, without a morsel of food or a drop of water, until they had escaped, in
stupor or delirium, all consciousness of suffering.  And worse even than this--too horrible
to be thought or spoken of--I knew something of the dreadful and disgusting expedients to prolong
life, which have sometimes been resorted to by famishing wretches.  I had read how the pangs
of hunger, and the still fiercer torments of thirst, had seemed to work a dire change even
in kind and generous natures, making men wolfish, so that they slew and fed upon each other.
Now, all that was most revolting and inhuman, in what I had heard or read of such things, rose
vividly before me, and I shuddered at the growing probability that experiences like these might
be reserved for us.  "Why not for us," I thought, "as well as for the many others, the records
of whose terrible fate I have perused with scarcely more emotion than would be excited by a
tale of imaginary suffering; and the still greater number whose story has never been recorded?
We have already been conducted many steps on this fearful path, and no laws of nature will
be stayed, no ordinary rules of God's dealing violated, on our behalf.  No inevitable necessity
requires the complexion of our future, to correspond and harmonise with that of our past lives.
This feeling, which seems to assure me that such things cannot happen to us, is but one of
the cheats and illusions of a shrinking and self-pitying spirit.  All the memories that cluster
about a happy childhood, all the sweet associations of home and kindred, afford no guarantee
against the new and bitter experiences which seem about to open up upon us."

Such were the thoughts that began to disquiet my own mind.  As to my companions, Morton seemed
less anxious and excited than any of the others.  During the evening he speculated in a cool
matter-of-fact manner, upon our chances of reaching an island, or meeting a ship, before being
reduced to the last extremity.  He spoke of the number of traders that frequent the islands,
for tortoise-shell, mother-of-pearl, sandal-wood, beche de mer, etcetera; the whalers that
come in pursuit of the cachelot, or sperm-whale; the vessels that resort there for fruit, or
supplies of wood and water; the vast number of islands scattered through these seas; from all
which he finally concluded, that the chances were largely in our favour.  If, however, we should
fail of immediate relief in this shape, he thought it probable that we should have opportunities
of catching fish, or sea-birds, and so prolonging life for many days.  He talked the whole
matter over in such a calm, sober, unexcited manner, furnishing facts and reasons for every
opinion, that I felt some confidence in his conclusions.

Browne, though quite composed and self-possessed, had, from the moment when he discovered that
we were out of sight of land, taken the most serious view of our situation.  He seemed to have
made up his mind for the worst, and was abstracted, and indisposed to converse.  I knew that
the anxiety which Arthur evinced, was not mainly on his own account.  It did not withdraw his
attention from what was passing, or diminish his interest in it.  Far from being gloomy or
abstracted, he was active and watchful, and spoke with heartiness and cheerfulness.  His mental
disquietude only appeared, in a certain softness and tremor of his voice, especially when speaking
to Johnny, who, as the night drew on, asked him over and over again, at short intervals, "Don't
you think, Arthur, that we shall certainly find land to-morrow?"  This was truly distressing.

As to Max, his feelings rose and fell capriciously, and without any apparent cause; he was
sanguine or depressed, not from a consideration of all our circumstances, and a favourable
or unfavourable conclusion drawn therefrom; but according as this view or that, for the moment,
impressed his mind.  He rendered no reasons for his hopes or his fears. At one moment, you
would judge from his manner and conversation that we were indeed out upon some "holy day excursion,"
with no serious danger impending over us; the next, without any thing to account for the change,
he would appear miserably depressed and wretched.

Soon after sunset the moon rose--pale and dim at first, but shining out with a clearer and
brighter radiance, as the darkness increased.  The wind held steadily from the same quarter,
and it was determined to continue through the night, the arrangement for taking charge of the
sailing of the boat, in turn.  Browne and Max insisted on sharing between themselves the watch
for the entire night, saying that they had taken no part in that of the one previous, and that
it would be useless to divide the twelve hours of darkness into more than two watches.  This
was finally agreed upon, the wind being so moderate that the same person could steer the yawl
and manage the sail without difficulty.

Before lying down, I requested Max, who took the first turn, to awake me at the same time with
Browne, a part of whose watch I intended to share. I fell asleep, looking up at the moon, and
the light clouds sailing across the sky, and listening to the motion of the water beneath the
boat.  At first I slumbered lightly, without losing a sort of dreamy consciousness, so that
I heard Max humming over to himself fragments of tunes, and odd verses of old songs, and even
knew when he shifted his position in the stern, from one side to the other.  At length I must
have fallen into a deep sleep: I do not know how long it had lasted, (it seemed to me but a
short time), when I was aroused by an exclamation, from Max, as I at first supposed; but on
sitting up I saw that Browne was at the helm, while Max was sleeping at my side.  On perceiving
that I was awake, Browne, from whom the exclamation had proceeded, pointed to something in
the water, just astern.  Following the direction of his finger with my eye, I saw, just beneath
the surface, a large ghastly-looking white shark, gliding stealthily along, and apparently
following the boat.  Browne said that he had first noticed it about half an hour before, since
which time it had steadily followed us, occasionally making a leisurely circuit round the boat,
and then dropping astern again.  A moment ago, having fallen into a doze at the helm, and awaking
with a start, he found himself leaning over the gunwale, and the shark just at his elbow. 
This had startled him, and caused the sudden exclamation by which I had been aroused.  I shuddered
at his narrow escape, and I acknowledge that the sight of this hideous and formidable creature,
stealing along in our wake, and manifesting an intention to keep us company, caused me some
uneasy sensations.  He swam with his dorsal fin almost at the surface, and his broad nose scarcely
three feet from the rudder.  His colour rendered him distinctly visible.

"What a spectre of a fish it is," said Browne, "with his pallid, corpse-like skin, and noiseless
motion; he has no resemblance to any of the rest of his kind, that I have ever seen.  You know
what the sailors would say, if they should see him dogging us in this way; Old Crosstrees,
or Spot, would shake their heads ominously, and set us down as a doomed company."

"Aside from any such superstitious notions, he is an unpleasant and dangerous neighbour, and
we must be circumspect while he is prowling about."

"It certainly won't do to doze at the helm," resumed Browne; "I consider that I have just now
had a really narrow escape.  I was leaning quite over the gunwale; a lurch of the boat would
have thrown me overboard, and then there would have been no chance for me."

There would not, in fact, have been the shadow of a chance.

"Even as it was," resumed he, "if this hideous-looking monster had been as active and vigilant
as some of his tribe, it would have fared badly with me.  I have heard of their seizing persons
standing on the shore, where the water was deep enough to let them swim close in; and Spot
tells of a messmate of his, on one of his voyages in a whaler, who was carried off, while standing
entirely out of water, on the carcass of a whale, which he was assisting in cutting up, as
it lay alongside the ship.  The shark threw himself upon the carcass, five or six yards from
where the man was busy;--worked himself slowly along the slippery surface, until within reach
of his victim; knocked him off into the water, and then sliding off himself, seized and devoured
him."

Picking my way carefully among the sleepers, who covered the bottom of the yawl, I sat down
beside Browne in the stern, intending to share the remainder of his watch.  It was now long
past midnight; fragments of light clouds were scattered over the sky, frequently obscuring
the moon; and the few stars that were visible, twinkled faintly with a cold and distant light.
The Southern Cross, by far the most brilliant constellation of that hemisphere, was conspicuous
among the clusters of feebler luminaries.  Well has it been called "the glory of the southern
skies."  Near the zenith, and second only to the Cross in brilliancy, appeared the Northern
Crown, consisting of seven large stars, so disposed as to form the outline of two-thirds of
an oval.  Of the familiar constellations of the northern hemisphere, scarcely one was visible,
except Orion, and the Pleiades.

At length the moon descended behind a bank of silvery clouds, piled up along the horizon. 
The partial obscurity that ensued, only added to the grandeur of the midnight scene, as we
sat gazing silently abroad upon the confused mass of swelling waters, stretching away into
the gloom. But if the scene was grand, it was also desolate; we two were perhaps the only human
beings, for many hundreds of miles, who looked forth upon it.  Our companions were wrapped
in unconsciousness, and their deep and regular breathing attested the soundness of their slumbers.
As the light failed more and more, and the shadows deepened, the sea began to assume a beautiful
and striking appearance, gleaming in places with a bluish lambent light, and exhibiting, where
the water was most agitated, large luminous patches.  Thin waves of flame curled over our bow,
and whenever a sea broke upon it, it seemed as though the boat was plunging through surges
of fire.  A long brilliant line, thickly strewn on each side, with little globules of the colour
of burning coals, marked our wake.

But the shark, which still followed close behind our keel, presented by far the most singular
and striking spectacle.  He seemed to be surrounded by a luminous medium; and his nose, his
dorsal and side fins, and his tail, each had attached to them slender jets of phosphoric fire.
Towards morning this brilliant appearance began to fade, and soon vanished altogether.  By
this time I found it difficult to keep my eyes open longer, and leaving Browne to finish his
watch alone, I resumed my place on the ceiling planks, and in spite of the hardness of my bed,
which caused every bone in my body to ache, soon slept soundly.  When I again awoke, it was
long after sunrise, and we were lying completely becalmed.  A school of large fish were pursuing
their gambols at a short distance, and Browne was rowing cautiously toward them, while Arthur
and Morton stood prepared to attack them with their cutlasses as soon as we should get within
striking distance.  We had got almost among them, and were just beginning to congratulate ourselves
upon their apparent indifference to our approach, when they all at once scattered in every
direction, with manifest signs of terror.  The cause of this sudden movement was not long concealed;
a brace of sharks rose in their very midst; one was visible but for a moment as he rolled over
to seize his prey; the other, less successful in securing a victim, shot past us, like an arrow,
in pursuit of a large division of the fugitives.  Soon after, both of them were seen playing
around the boat.  They belonged to the species known as the tiger shark, and bore no resemblance
to our ghastly visitor of the preceding evening.  By the consternation which their sudden appearance
had produced among the lesser fishes, they had in all probability robbed us of our breakfast.
Morton, with his characteristic enterprise, suggested an attack upon one of them by way of
reprisals; but before any measures for that purpose could be taken, they disappeared, leaving
us with no other resource than to await our fate with such patience and resignation as we could
command.  The wind having entirely failed, there was nothing that we could do to change our
situation--absolutely nothing.  This forced inaction, with no occupation for mind or body,
no object of effort, contributed to enhance whatever was painful in our condition, by leaving
us to brood over it.  The dead calm which had fallen upon the sea, seemed all that was necessary
to complete our misery.  We were all stiff and sore, from the exceedingly uncomfortable sleeping
accommodations of the last two nights; but this was a comparatively trifling evil.  Johnny
had a severe cold, his eyes were inflamed and bloodshot, and he exhibited also strong symptoms
of fever.  Nevertheless, silent and uncomplaining, he came and sat down quietly by the side
of Arthur in the stern.

As the day advanced, the heat became dreadful.  We had not suffered much from it the day before,
on account of the fresh breeze which had prevailed; but now, not a breath of air was stirring,
and the glassy sea reflected back upon us the scorching rays of the sun, with increased intensity.
Towards noon, it exceeded any thing I had ever experienced. The whole arch of the heavens glowed
with a hot and coppery glare.  It seemed as though instead of one sun, there were ten thousand,
covering all the sky, and blending their rays into a broad canopy of fire.  The air was like
that of an oven: the water had no coolness, no refreshing quality; it was tepid and stagnant:
no living thing was to be seen near the surface, for life could not be sustained there; and
the fishes, great and small, kept themselves in the cooler depths, far below. Almost stifled
by the heat, we began to experience the first real and extreme suffering that most of us had
ever known.  At Arthur's suggestion, we disengaged the now useless sail from the mast, and
contrived a kind of awning, by fastening two of the oars upright in the boat, with the mast
extending between them, throwing the sail over the latter, and securing the ends to the gunwales.
This, although it could not protect us from the sultry and suffocating air, warded off the
blistering beams of the sun, and during the greater part of the day, we lay crouched beneath
it, a miserable company; one or another of us crawling out occasionally, to take a survey.
Towards the close of the afternoon, my sufferings from thirst grew absolutely intolerable,
and amounted to torment.  My blood became fevered; my brain seemed on fire; my shrunk and shrivelled
tongue, was like a dry stick in my mouth.  The countenances of my companions, their bloodshot
eyes, and cracked and swollen lips, shewed what they were undergoing.  Johnny lay in the bottom
of the boat with his eyes shut enduring all, with as much fortitude as the rest of us, except
that now and then a half suppressed moan escaped him.

It was quite clear that relief, in order to be of any avail, must be speedy.

CHAPTER SEVEN.

A CHANGE.

A WELCOME PERIL--THE ALBATROSS AND THEIR PREY--A TROPICAL THUNDER-STORM.

  "Eternal Providence, exceeding thought,
  Where none appears, can make itself a way."

While lying crouched under the sail, almost gasping for breath, near the middle, as I suppose,
of that terrible afternoon, I all at once became sensible of a perceptible cooling of the atmosphere,
and a sudden decrease of light.  Looking out to discover the cause of this change, I perceived
that the sky was overcast, and that a light, unsteady breeze from the north-west had sprung
up.  Knowing that within the tropics, and near the line, winds from that quarter frequently
precede a storm, and that great extremes of heat are often succeeded by violent gales, I observed,
with apprehension, dark masses of clouds gathering in the north.  It would not require a tempest
to insure our destruction; for our little craft could not live a moment, even in such a gale
as would be attended by no danger to a staunch ship with plenty of sea room.

The temperature had fallen many degrees, though the wind was still moderate and unsteady, ranging
from west to north-east.  The sun was completely obscured, so that the awning was no longer
needed, and we pulled it down, in order the more fully to enjoy the breeze, and the delicious
coolness of the darkened atmosphere, to the gratefulness of which, not even our awakening apprehensions
could render us insensible.

While observing the strange appearance of the sky, and like preparations for a storm which
seemed to be going on in the north and west, Morton espied a troop of Flying-fish a hundred
yards or so to windward. Fluttering feebly a short distance in the air, they would drop into
the sea, soon emerging, however, for a fresh flight; thus, alternately swimming and flying,
they were steadily approaching; and from their rapid and confused motions, it was evident that
they were hard pressed by some of the numerous and greedy persecutors of their helpless race;
from whom they were struggling to escape.  Presently, a glittering Albatross shot from the
water, close in the tract of the fugitives, descending again in the graceful curve peculiar
to his active and beautiful, but rapacious tribe.  Another and another followed, their golden
scales flashing in the light, as they leaped clear of the water, sometimes two or three together.
We hastily made ready to attack both pursuers and pursued, the instant they should come within
reach.  The course of the chase brought them directly towards us, until the hunted fishes fell
in a glittering shower, so near, that I feared they might pass under the boat before rising
again; but they came to the surface close beside us, and as they fluttered into the air, we
knocked down six or seven of them, and caught a number more, that dropped into the boat. Morton
and Max, ambitious of larger game, devoted their attention to the Albatross, and slashed and
thrust furiously, at such as came within reach of their cutlasses; which many of them did.
Some darted under the boat, instead of sheering round it; and one enormous fellow, miscalculating
in his haste our draught of water, must have scraped all the fins off his back against the
keel, as he performed this manoeuvre; for the shock of the contact, caused the yawl to tremble
from stem to stern.  But such was the marvellous celerity of their movements, that though they
came within easy striking distance, all the hostile demonstrations of Max and Morton proved futile.

The Flying-fish which had been taken, were divided and apportioned with scrupulous exactness,
and devoured with very little ceremony.  The only dressing or preparation bestowed upon them,
consisted simply in stripping off the long shining pectoral fins, or wings, (they serve as
both), without paying much attention to such trifling matters as scales, bones, and the lesser
fins.  Max, indeed, began to nibble rather fastidiously at first, at this raw food, which a
minute before had been so full of life and activity; but his appetite improved as he proceeded,
and he at last so far got the better of his scruples, as to leave nothing of his share except
the tails, and very little even of those. Hunger, in fact, made this repast, which would have
been revolting under ordinary circumstances, not only acceptable, but positively delicious.

Meantime, the dark mass of clouds in the north had extended itself, and drawn nearer to us.
Another tempest seemed to be gathering in the west, while in the south, a violent thunder-storm
appeared to be actually raging: the lightning in that quarter was vivid and almost incessant,
but we could hear no thunder, the storm being still at a considerable distance.

Immediately around us all was yet comparatively calm, but the heavy clouds, gathering on three
sides, seemed gradually converging towards a common centre; a short abrupt cross sea, began
to form, and the water assumed a glistening inky hue.  There was something peculiar and striking
in the appearance of the clouds surrounding us; they seemed to rest upon the surface of the
ocean, and towered upward like a dark wall to the skies.  Their upper extremities were torn
and irregular, and long narrow fragments, like giant arms, streamed out from the main body,
and extended over us, as if beckoning each other to a nearer approach, and threatening to unite
their gloomy array overhead, and shut out the light of day.  As they drew nearer to one another,
the lightning began to dart from cloud to cloud, while the most terrific peals of thunder that
I have ever heard, rolled and reverberated on every side.  We appeared to be surrounded by
storms, some of which were very near, for the deep crash of the thunder, followed close upon
the vivid lightnings that flashed in the south and west.  Still the narrow space of sky directly
overhead was clear, and the war of elements which was raging all around did not extend to our
immediate neighbourhood.  Against the dark sides of the cloudy pavilion that encompassed us,
the sharp, zigzag lines of lightning, as they ran from the sky to the ocean, shone out with
a blinding glare.  A single half-hour had sufficed to change every thing about us.  The brazen,
burning sky, was transformed into a cold, clear expanse, of a bluish black.  The sea, no longer
stagnant and glassy, was fretted by short inky waves, with creamy crests, that gave it altogether
a new aspect.  The air was now fresh and cool, and the wind rising and falling fitfully, at
one moment scarcely lifted our hair or stirred our garments, and the next, tore off the entire
crests of waves, and scattered them over us in a shower of spray.  For nearly an hour we remained
apprehensive that the wind might increase to a gale.  At the end of about that time, it came
gradually round to the south-east, growing steady, but by no means violent, and the storms
moved off in a westerly direction.  One heavy cloud, as it slowly passed over toward that quarter,
discharged a grateful shower of rain.  We hastily spread the sail, and some of our garments,
to gather the precious drops.  The shower lasted only a few minutes, but during that time it
rained briskly.  I never shall forget my sensations as I stood with face upturned, while the
big drops, more delicious than ambrosia, came pelting down.  It was far better and more strengthening
than food, or any medicine or cordial could have been, and seemed to infuse fresh life into
us all.  When it was over, we wrung out from the saturated canvass, and from our clothing,
water enough to mitigate for the time, though by no means to satisfy, the raging thirst from
which we had suffered so intensely.

Arthur had at first taken out of the locker the large bottle which had been found there, in
the hope of being able to hoard up a small supply for the future; but there was not a drop
of surplus for such a purpose, and he was obliged to put it back again empty as before.

CHAPTER EIGHT.

TOKENS OF LAND.

THE CENTRE OF THE SPHERE--THE MYSTERIOUS SOUND--THE CONFLAGRATION.

  "Thou glorious sea! before me gleaming,
  Oft wilt thou float in sunset pride,
  And often shall I hear in dreaming,
  Thy resonance at evening tide!"

At sunset every trace of the storms by which we had been so recently encompassed had vanished:
the sky, except along the western horizon, was without a cloud: not a breath of wind ruffled
the sea, and we lay once more completely becalmed.

This was our third night at sea; though to me, at least, it seemed that many days had passed
since the mutiny and the immediately succeeding occurrences.  It is a night which I shall not
soon forget; the impression of its almost unearthly beauty is still fresh and vivid, and haunts
me like a vision of fairy land.  At this moment if I but close my eyes, the whole scene rises
before me with the distinctness of a picture; though one would naturally suppose that persons
situated as we then were, could scarcely have been in a state of mind congenial to the reception
of such impressions.

The transition from early twilight to the darkness of night was beautiful beyond description.
The array of clouds in the west just after sunset; their forms, arrangement, and colours; with
the manner in which they blended and melted into one another, composed a spectacle, of the
magnificence of which, neither language, nor the art of the painter, can convey any adequate
idea.  Along the edge of the horizon stretched a broad tract of the deepest crimson, reflecting
far upon the waters, a light that gave them the appearance of an ocean of blood.  Above this
was a band of vivid flame colour: then one of a clear translucent green, perfectly peculiar,
unlike that of any leaf or gem, and of surpassing delicacy and beauty.  This gradually melted,
through many fine gradations, into a sea of liquid amber, so soft and golden, that the first
large stars of evening, floating in its transparent depths, could scarcely be distinguished,
as they twinkled mildly, amid the flood of kindred radiance.  A narrow streak of pearly blue
bounded this amber sea with its islands of light, and divided it from the deeper blue of the
wide vault above.  During the earlier part of this glorious display, the eastern sky, as if
in rivalry of the splendour of the opposite quarter of the heavens, was spanned by two concentric
rainbows, describing complete semi-circles, with their bases resting upon the sea.  In the
smaller and interior bow, all the colours were beautifully distinct; in the outer and larger
one, they were less brilliant, and arranged in an order the reverse of that which is usual,
the violet being the lowest instead of the red.  The rainbows vanished with the sun, and soon
afterwards the fiery glow in the west began to fade.  But the scene only changed its character,
without losing any of its beauty.  So smooth was the sea on that night that the whole dome
of the sky, with every sailing cloudflake, and every star, was perfectly reflected in it. 
Until the moon rose, the line where the sky joined the ocean was indistinctly defined, and
the two were so blended together, that we actually seemed suspended in the centre of a vast
sphere; the heavens, instead of terminating at the horizon, extended, spangled with stars,
on every side--below, as well as above, and around.  The illusion was wonderfully perfect;
you almost held your breath as you glanced downward, and could hardly refrain from starting
nervously, so strong and bewildering was the appearance of hanging poised in empty space.

Johnny, who had been sitting for a long time with his hands supporting his head, and his elbows
resting upon Arthur's knee, gazing out upon the ocean, suddenly looked up into his face, and said--

"Arthur, I want you to tell me truly--do you still believe that we shall be saved--do you hope
so now, as you did yesterday, or do you think that we must perish!"

"Do you suppose that I would try to deceive you, Johnny," said Arthur, "that you ask me so
earnestly to tell you truly?"

"No, but I feared you would not, perhaps, tell me the worst, thinking that I could not bear
it: and I suspected to-night, that you spoke more cheerfully than you felt on my account. 
But I am not afraid, dear Arthur, to know the truth; and do not hide it from me!  I will try
to bear patiently, with you, and with the rest whatever comes upon us."

"I would not deceive you about such a matter, Johnny.  I should not think it right, though
you are so young.  But I can know nothing certainly.  We are in the hands of God.  I have told
you all the reasons we have to hope; we have the same reasons still.  Only a few hours ago,
the sea supplied us with food, and the clouds with drink: why may we not hope for future supplies
according to our need?  I think we yet have more reason to hope than to despair."

"Did you ever know, or hear of such a thing," inquired Johnny, after a pause, "as a company
of boys, like us, starving at sea?"

"I do not remember that I have, under circumstances at all similar to ours," answered Arthur.

"It is too dreadful to believe!  Is not God, our Father in heaven?  He will not surely let
us perish so miserably."

"Yes, Johnny," said Arthur gently, but earnestly, "God is our heavenly Father; but we must
not make our belief in his love and goodness, a ground of confidence that any suffering, however
terrible, shall not befall us.  The young suffer and die, as well as the old; the good, as
well as the bad.  Not only the strong martyrs, who triumphed while they were tortured, but
feeble old men, and little children, have been torn in pieces by wild beasts, or burned alive,
or cast down precipices.  And these things, that seemed so very hard to us, God has permitted.
Yet he is good, and loves and cares for us as a father.  This we must believe, and hold fast
to, in spite of every thing that in our ignorance may seem to contradict it.  If we feel as
we ought, and as by his grace we may, we shall be able to trust all to him, with sweet resignation."

"But is it not very hard, dear Arthur, to be left to die so!--and God can save us so easily,
if he will."

Arthur was deeply affected: the tears filled his eyes as he took Johnny upon his knee, and
tried to explain to him how wrong and selfish it would be, to make our belief in the goodness
of God, depend upon our rescue and preservation.  It was a difficult task, perhaps an untimely
one, as Max hinted.  But Johnny gradually sobbed away his excitement, and became soothed and calm.

"Well," said he, after a while, drawing a long breath, and wiping away his tears, "I know one
thing: whatever may happen, we will be kind and true to one another to the last, and never
think of such inhuman things as I have read of shipwrecked people doing, when nearly dead with
hunger, though we all starve together."

"Come to me, Johnny," cried Browne, with a faltering voice, "I must kiss you for those words.
Yes, we will perish, if we must, like brothers, not sullenly, as if none had ever suffered
evil before us.  Weak and gentle spirits have borne without repining, sufferings as great as
threaten us.  Often has my mother told me the story of sweet Marjory Wilson, drowned in the
Solway water, in the days of Claverhouse, because she met with her friends and kindred to worship
God after their manner-- and never could I listen to it without tears.  Ah, what a spirit was
there!  She was but eighteen, and she could have saved her life by saying a few words.  Life
was as sweet to her as it is to us: she too had a home and friends and kindred, whom it must
have been hard for the poor young thing to leave so suddenly and awfully.  And yet she refused
to speak those words--she chose to die rather.  They took her out upon the sand where the tide
was rising fast, and bound her to a stake.  Soon the water came up to her face.  She saw it
go over the head of a poor old woman, whom they had tied farther out than herself.  She saw
her death struggles; she heard her gasp for breath, as she choked and strangled in the yellow
waves.  Ah! she must have had courage from the Lord, or that sight would have made her young
heart fail.  Once more, and for the last time, the king's officer asked her to make the promise
never to attend a conventicle again.  He urged it, for he pitied her youth and innocence. 
Her friends and neighbours begged her to save her life.  `O speak, dear Marjory!' they cried,
`and make the promise; it can't be wrong.  Do it for our sakes, dear Marjory, and they will
let you go!'  But she would not save her life by doing what she had been taught to think was
wrong; and while the swirling waves of the Solway were rising fast around her, she prayed to
God, and kept singing fragments of psalms, till the water choked her voice--and so she perished.
But, O friends! to know that such things have been; that spirits gentle and brave as this have
lived, makes it easier to suffer courageously."

"Horrible!" exclaimed Max, "I seem to see all that you have so graphically told.  But how stern
and cruel the teachers who would sacrifice human life rather than abate their own sullen obstinacy,
even in trifles--who could encourage this innocent but misguided girl, in her refusal to save
her life by the harmless promise to attend a church instead of a conventicle."

Just as Browne was commencing an eager and indignant reply to Max's rash reflections upon the
strictness of covenanting teachings, we were suddenly startled by a deep and solemn sound,
which seemed to come from a distance.  While we listened intently, it was several times repeated
at short intervals of about fifteen seconds, each time more distinctly than before.  It resembled
somewhat, the deepest tones of a powerful organ, heard for an instant, and then abruptly stopped.
Nothing was to be seen in the direction from which it seemed to proceed, but the sea glittering
in the moonlight.  Is it to be wondered at, if we listened with feelings, tinged with superstitious
awe, to that strange sound, heard under such circumstances, and at such an hour?  Johnny nestled
closer to Arthur's side, and I thought that the faces of my companions grew visibly pale. 
Even Arthur looked perplexed and disturbed.

"What can that be?" said Morton, after a few minutes of almost breathless silence, during which
we had listened in vain for its repetition.

"It is certainly very strange," said Arthur.  "I never heard any thing at sea, at all like
it, but once, and it is impossible that this can be what I then heard--but hark!"  And again
the same deep pealing sound was repeated several times, at shorter intervals, but more faintly
than before; after continuing for a few minutes it ceased again.

"What was the sound which you speak of, as resembling this?" asked Morton, when all was silent
once more.

"It was the cry of a kind of penguin, found at the Falkland Islands; when heard on shore it
is harsh and loud; but a short distance at sea, and in the night, it has a pealing, solemn
sound, like that which we have just heard."

"It must come from land in the neighbourhood," said Morton, "we can probably hear farther on
such a night as this than we can distinguish land."

"Yes, sounds on the water, in calm still nights, when there is no wind, can be heard at great
distances," said Arthur; "it is said that the `All's well!' of the British sentinel at Gibraltar,
is sometimes heard across the strait, on the African shore, a distance of thirteen miles. I
have seen, at the Society Islands, native drums made of large hollow logs, which might perhaps,
at a distance, sound like what we heard a moment ago.  A Wesleyan missionary there, once told
me of a great drum that he saw at the Tonga Islands, called the `Tonga Toki,' which sounded
like an immense gong, and could be heard from seven to ten miles."

"Why, I thought that this sounded like a gong," said Johnny, "perhaps we are near some island
now; but what could they be drumming for so late in the night?"

"There would be nothing very unusual about that," said Arthur.  "The Areoi Societies, which
are extended over most of the larger inhabited islands in this part of the Pacific, sometimes
hold their great celebrations, like the pow-wows, and war-dances, of our American Indians,
in the night-time.  At the Feejee Islands they have a strange ceremony called `Tambo Nalanga,'
which they celebrate at night, with the beating of drums, the blowing of conches, and a number
of savage and cruel rites.  Something or other of the same kind is observed at most of the
islands, though under different names, and with slight variations."

While speculating in this way, and endeavouring to account for the noise which had startled
us so much, we all at once became aware of an increasing light in the south, the `Cross,' now
half-way between the horizon and the zenith, enabling us to fix the points of the compass.
As we gazed in that direction, the sky became strongly illuminated by a red glare, and an immense
column of flame and smoke was seen shooting up in the distance.  Nothing but the expanse of
the ocean, splendidly illuminated, and glowing like a sea of fire, could be discerned by this
light.  Whether it was caused by a burning ship, at such a distance that nothing but the light
of her conflagration was visible, or by a fire on some distant island, we could not determine.
It was in the same quarter from which the sound had seemed to come.

Arthur was now of the opinion that we were in the neighbourhood of an inhabited island, or
group, and that the light proceeded from the burning beche-de-mer house of some successful
trader, who had set fire to it, (as is their custom at the end of a prosperous season), to
prevent it from falling into the hands of others in the same business.

We all grasped eagerly at this idea, for the probability that we were not only in the neighbourhood
of land, but of a place where we should meet with Europeans, and have an opportunity of getting
home, or perhaps to the places of our respective destination, was full of encouragement. In
a very short time the conflagration was over, and a dark column of smoke, which marked the
spot where it had raged, was lifted slowly into the air.  We heard no more of the mysterious
sound.  None of the explanations suggested were so perfectly satisfactory, as to remove entirely
the unpleasant impression which it had produced.  Before lying down in our accustomed places,
we made our usual arrangements as to the watch, unnecessary as it seemed, during the calm.

CHAPTER NINE.

DARK WATERS.

SUFFERING AND DELIRIUM--THE MIDNIGHT BATH--A STRANGE PERIL.

Several times in the course of the night, I was awakened by confused noises, like the blowing
of porpoises, or the spouting of whales; but the sky had become overcast, and it had grown
so dark, that on getting up and looking about, I could see nothing of the creatures producing
these sounds.  My slumbers were broken and uneasy, and in the morning I found myself suffering
from a dull, heavy pain in the head, accompanied by a slight nausea, and a general feeling
of languor and weakness.  Even to get upon my feet required something of an effort, which I
made, impelled rather by a dim, confused sense of duty, than by any spontaneous impulse or
inclination: had I consulted inclination alone, I believe I should have remained passive, and
let things take their course.

The occurrences of the last night had given rise to some faint expectation that by daylight
we should discover land in sight to the southward, where we had seen the great light.  But
nothing was visible in that or any other quarter.  Possessed by some hope of this kind, Arthur
had been up, searching the horizon, since the first streak of day in the east.  He showed me
a large green branch which he had picked up as it floated near us.  By the elegantly scolloped
leaves, of a dark and glossy green, it was easily recognised as a branch of the bread-fruit
tree; and from their bright, fresh colour, and the whiteness of the wood, where it had joined
the trunk, it must have been torn off quite recently.  The calm still continued.  Immense schools
of black-fish, or porpoises, or some similar species, could be seen about half a mile distant,
passing westward, in an apparently endless line.  The temporary beneficial effect of yesterday's
scanty supply of food and drink, had passed away entirely, and all seemed to feel in a greater
or less degree, the bodily pain and weakness, and the lassitude and indisposition to any kind
of effort, by which I was affected.  To such an extent was this the case, that when Arthur
proposed that we should row towards the school of fish in sight, and try to take some of them,
the strongest disinclination to make any such attempt was evinced, and it was only after much
argument and persuasion, and by direct personal appeals to us individually, that he overcame
this strange torpor, and induced us to take to the oars.

On getting near enough to the objects of our pursuit to distinguish them plainly, we were sorry
to find that they were Porpoises instead of black-fish, as we had at first supposed; the former
being shy and timid, and much more difficult to approach than the latter; and so they proved
at present.  Still we persevered for a while; the hope of obtaining food having been once excited,
we were almost as reluctant to abandon the attempt as we had been at first to commence it.
But after half an hour's severe labour at the oars, we were obliged to give it up as quite
hopeless, and soon afterward the last of the long column passed beyond pursuit, leaving us
completely disheartened and worn out.  The sail was again arranged so as to shelter us as much
as possible from the sun, and Arthur commenced distributing the leaves and twigs of the bread-fruit
branch, suggesting that some slight refreshment might perhaps be derived from chewing them.
But they retained a saline taste from having been in the sea-water, and no one proceeded far
with the experiment.  Morton cut some small slips of leather from his boots, and began to chew
them.  He fancied that they afforded some nourishment, and recommended the rest of us to make
a similar trial, which I believe we all did.  Max almost immediately rejected with disgust
the first morsel which he put into his mouth, saying that he must "starve a little longer before
he could relish that."  At noon the heat was more intense, if possible, than it had been the
day before.  Johnny was now in a high fever, accompanied by symptoms of an alarming character.
It was distressing to witness his sufferings, and feel utterly unable to do any thing for him.
Yet there was nothing that we could do--food and drink were the only medicines he needed, and
these we could not give him.  Towards the close of the afternoon he became delirious, and began
to cry out violently and incessantly for water.  His voice seemed to have changed, and could
now scarcely be recognised.  There was something very strange and horrible in the regular,
unceasing cries which he uttered, and which sounded at times almost like the howlings of a
brute.  Arthur had made a sort of bed for him, to which each of us contributed such articles
of clothing as could be spared.  It was now necessary to watch him every moment and frequently
to use force to keep him from getting overboard.  At one time, having got to the side of the
boat, before he could be prevented, he commenced dipping up the sea-water with his hand, and
would have drunk it had he not been forcibly restrained.  After this had lasted nearly two
hours, he suddenly ceased his struggles and violent cries, and began to beg piteously for "a
drink of water."  This he continued for a considerable time, repeatedly asking Arthur to tell
him why he could not have "just a little," since there was "such a plenty of it."

It is impossible to describe the horrible and sickening effect of all this upon us, in the
state of utter physical prostration to which we had been gradually reduced.  Browne and Arthur
watched over Johnny with all the care and patient unwearying kindness that a mother could have
shown; and they would not permit the rest of us to relieve them for a moment, or to share any
part of their charge, painful and distressing as it was. Twice, when it became necessary to
hold the little sufferer fast, to prevent him from getting over the gunwale, he spat fiercely
in Arthur's face, struggling and crying out with frightful vehemence.  But Browne's voice seemed
to soothe and control him, and when Johnny spoke to him, it was gently, and in the language
of entreaty.  Towards night he became more quiet, and at last sunk into a kind of lethargy,
breathing deeply and heavily, but neither speaking nor moving, except to turn from one side
to the other, which he did at nearly regular intervals.

This change relieved us from the necessity of constantly watching and restraining him, but
Arthur viewed it as an unfavourable and alarming symptom; he seemed now more completely depressed
than I had ever before seen him, and to be overcome at last by grief, anxiety, and the horrors
of our situation.

The heat did not abate in the least with the going down of the sun, but the night, though very
close and sultry, was calm and beautiful, like the last.  Soon after the moon rose, Max and
Morton undressed, and bathed themselves in the sea.  The smooth moonlit water looked so cool
and inviting, that the rest of us soon followed their example, notwithstanding the danger from
sharks.  We were all good swimmers, but no one ventured far from the boat except Morton; I
found that a few strokes quite exhausted me, and I was obliged to turn and cling to the gunwale.
In fact, so great was the loss of strength which we had all suffered, that we came near perishing
in a very singular and almost incredible manner: After having been in the water a sufficient
time, as I thought, I discovered, on trying to get into the boat again, that I was utterly
unable to do so, through sheer weakness.  At the same time I observed Max making a similar
attempt nearer the stern, with no better success.  We were all in the water except Johnny;
any difficulty in getting into the boat again had not been dreamed of; but I began now to feel
seriously alarmed.  My feet were drawn forcibly under the boat's bottom, and even to maintain
my hold of the gunwale, as we rose and sunk with the swell, required an exhausting effort,
which I knew I could not long continue.  Arthur was swimming near the stern, holding on to
the end of a rope, which he had cast over before coming in.  By great exertion I raised myself
so far as to be able to look over the gunwale, when I saw Browne in the same position directly
opposite me.

"Can't you get into the boat!"  I asked.

"Really, I don't think I can," said he, speaking like a person exhausted.

"I can't," added Max, faintly, "it is as much as I can do to maintain my hold."  At this moment
a voice was heard, calling out apparently from a distance, "Hilloa! where are you?  Hilloa!"
It was hoarse, strained, and distressed.  Almost immediately the cry was repeated, much nearer
at hand, as it seemed; and then, a third time, faint, and distant as at first.  I was horror-stricken;
the cry sounded strange and fearful, and I did not recognise the voice.  Then it occurred to
me that it must be Morton, who had swum out farther than the rest, and losing sight of the
boat for a moment in the swell of the sea, had become bewildered and alarmed.  This might easily
happen; if but the length of a wave distant we should be invisible to him, unless both should
chance to rise on the swell at the same time.  The moon, too, had just passed behind a dark
mass of cloud, and the sea lay in partial obscurity.  I now heard Browne and Arthur shouting,
in order, as I supposed, to guide Morton by the sound of their voices.  I, too, called out
as loudly as I was able.  For a moment all was still again.  Then I heard some one say, "There
he is!" and a dark speck appeared on the crest of a wave a little to the right. At this moment
the moon shone out brightly! and I saw that it was Morton, swimming toward us.  He reached
the boat panting and out of breath, and catching hold near me with an almost convulsive effort,
remained some minutes without being able to speak a word.  Arthur, who had observed Max's struggles
to get into the yawl, now swam round to where Morton and I were hanging on, and taking hold
also, his additional weight depressed the gunwale nearly to the water's edge, when he got his
knee over it, and at last, by a sudden effort rolled into the boat.  He then helped me to get
in, and we two the rest.

Morton said that after swimming but a short distance from the boat, as he supposed, he found
himself getting tired and very weak, and on turning, greatly to his surprise, could see nothing
of us.  In reality, however, there was nothing surprising in this, his face being on a level
with the surface, and the boat with neither sail nor mast up, being much less in height than
the long smooth swells.  Perceiving how great was his danger, and becoming somewhat alarmed,
he had called out in the manner described: when he heard us shouting in return, he was actually
swimming away from us, and it was only by following the direction of our voices that he had
at last reached the boat.

That night we kept no regular watch as we had hitherto done, or at least we made no arrangement
for that purpose, though one or another of us was awake most of the time, watching Johnny,
who continued, however, in the same deep lethargic slumber.

For my part, it was a long time before I could sleep at all.  There was something in the fate
that threatened us, more appalling than the terrors of death.  The impressions produced by
the ravings, and cries, and struggles, of our poor little fellow-sufferer were yet fresh, and
they could not be effaced.  All in vain I strove to control the workings of my morbidly excited
imagination--I could not shut out the fearful thoughts and anticipations which the occurrences
of the day so naturally and obviously suggested.  The lapse of twenty-four hours might find
us all reduced to the same helpless state, deprived of consciousness and reason.  One after
another must succumb to the fever and become delirious, until he who should last fall its victim,
should find himself alone in the midst of his stricken and raving companions--alone retaining
reason, no longer to be accounted a blessing, since it could only serve to make him sensible
to all the accumulated horrors of his situation.  I shuddered as I contemplated the possibility
that I might be the most wretched one, the last of all to sink and perish.  At length, I began
to imagine that my mind was actually beginning to fail, and that I was becoming delirious.
At first it was but a fearful suspicion.  Soon, however, it took such strong possession of
me, that I was compelled to relinquish all thought of sleep.  Sitting up, I saw that Arthur
was awake and by the side of Johnny.  His face was upturned, and his hands clasped as if in
prayer.  I could see his lips move, and even the tears trickling from beneath his closed lids,
for the moonlight fell upon his countenance.  He did not observe me, and after a few moments
he laid down again without speaking, and soon appeared to slumber like the rest.

Pressing my hands to my head, I leaned over the stern, my face almost touching the water. 
A current of cooler air was stirring close to the surface, as if it were the breathing of the
sea, for there was no wind. How preternaturally still every thing seemed--what an intensity
of silence!  How softly the pale moonlight rested upon the water!  A grand and solemn repose
wrapped the heavens and the ocean--no sound beneath all that vast blue dome--no motion, but
the heaving of the long sluggish swell.  Gradually I became calmer; the excitement and perturbation
of my mind began to subside, and at length I felt as though I could sleep.  As I resumed my
place by the side of Browne, he moved, as if about to awake, and murmured indistinctly some
broken sentences.  From the words that escaped him, he was dreaming of that far-off home which
he was to behold no more.  In fancy he was wandering again by the banks of the Clyde, the scene
of many a school-boy ramble.  But it seemed as though the shadow of present realities darkened
even his dreams, and he beheld these familiar haunts no longer in the joyous light of early
days.  "How strange it looks!" he muttered slowly, "how dark the river is--how deep and dark!--it
seems to me it was not so then, Robert."  Truly, companion in suffering, this is no falsely
coloured dream of thine, for we have all come at last into deep and dark waters!

CHAPTER TEN.

A SAIL.

THE CACHELOT AND HIS ASSAILANTS--THE COURSE--NEW ACQUAINTANCES.

  "Strange creatures round us sweep:
  Strange things come up to look at us,
  The monsters of the deep."

The first thought that flashed through my mind with returning consciousness, in the morning,
was, "This is the last day for hope-- unless relief comes to-day in some shape, we must perish."
I was the first awake, and glancing at the faces of my companions lying about in the bottom
of the boat, I could not help shuddering.  They had a strange and unnatural look--a miserable
expression of pain and weakness.  All that was familiar and pleasant to look upon, had vanished
from those sharpened and haggard features.  Their closed eyes seemed singularly sunken; and
their matted hair, sunburned skin, and soiled clothing, added something of wildness to the
misery of their appearance.

Browne, who had slept beside me, was breathing hard, and started every now and then, as if
in pain.  Johnny slumbered so peacefully, and breathed so gently, that for a moment I was alarmed,
and doubted whether he was breathing at all, until I stooped down and watched him closely.
There were still no indications of a breeze.  A school of whales was visible about a quarter
of a mile to the westward, spouting and pursuing their unwieldy sport; but I took no interest
in the sight, and leaning over the gunwale, commenced bathing my head and eyes with the sea-water.
While thus engaged I was startled by seeing an enormous cachelot, (the sperm-whale), suddenly
break the water within fifteen yards of the boat. Its head, which composed nearly a third of
its entire bulk, seemed a mountain of flesh.  A couple of small calves followed it, and came
swimming playfully around us.  For a minute or two, the cachelot floated quietly at the surface,
where it had first appeared, throwing a slender jet of water, together with a large volume
of spray and vapour into the air; then rolling over upon its side, it began to lash the sea
with its broad and powerful tail, every stroke of which produced a sound like the report of
a cannon.  This roused the sleepers abruptly, and just as they sprang up, and began to look
around in astonishment, for the cause of so startling a commotion, the creature cast its misshapen
head downwards, and, throwing its immense flukes high into the air, disappeared.  We watched
anxiously to see where it would rise, conscious of the perils of such a neighbourhood, and
that even a playful movement, a random sweep of the tail, while pursuing its gigantic pastime,
would be sufficient to destroy us.  It came to the surface at about the same distance as before,
but on the opposite side of the boat, throwing itself half out of the water as it rose: again
it commenced lashing the sea violently, as if in the mere wanton display of its terrible strength,
until far around, the water was one wide sheet of foam.  The calves still gambolled near us,
chasing each other about and under the yawl, and we might easily have killed one of them, had
we not been deterred by the almost certain consequences of arousing the fury of the old whale.
Meantime, the entire school seemed to be edging down towards us.  There was not a breath of
air, and we had no means of getting out of the way of the danger, to which we should be exposed,
if among them, except by taking to the oars; and this, nothing short of the most pressing and
immediate peril could induce us to do.  But our attention was soon withdrawn from the herd,
to the singular and alarming movements of the individual near us.  Rushing along the surface
for short distances, it threw itself several times half clear of the water, turning after each
of these leaps, as abruptly as its unwieldy bulk would permit, and running a tilt with equal
violence in the opposite direction.  Once, it passed so near us, that I think I could have
touched it with an oar, and we saw distinctly its small, dull eye, and the loose, wrinkled,
folds of skin, about its tremendous jaws.  For a minute afterwards, the boat rolled dangerously
in the swell caused by the swift passage of so vast an object.  Suddenly, after one of these
abrupt turns, the monster headed directly towards us, and came rushing onward with fearful
velocity, either not noticing us at all, or else mistaking the boat for some sea-creature,
with which it designed to measure its strength. There was no time for any effort to avoid the
danger; and even had there been, we were too much paralysed by its imminence, to make such
an effort.  The whale was scarcely twelve yards off--certainly not twenty. Behind it stretched
a foaming wake, straight as an arrow.  Its vast mountainous head ploughed up the waves like
a ship's cutwater, piling high the foam and spray before it.  To miss us was now a sheer impossibility
and no earthly power could arrest the creature's career. Instant destruction appeared inevitable.
I grew dizzy, and my head began to swim, while the thought flashed confusedly through my mind,
that infinite wisdom had decreed that we must die, and this manner of perishing had been chosen
in mercy, to spare us the prolonged horrors of starvation.  What a multitude of incoherent
thoughts and recollections crowded upon my mind in that moment of time!  A thousand little
incidents of my past life, disconnected and trivial--a shadowy throng of familiar scenes and
faces, surged up before me, vividly as objects revealed for an instant by the glare of the
lightning, in the gloom of a stormy night.  Closing my eyes, I silently commended my soul to
God, and was endeavouring to compose myself for the dreadful event when Morton sprang to his
feet, and called hurriedly upon us to shout together.  All seemed to catch his intention at
once, and to perceive in it a gleam of hope; and standing up we raised our voices in a hoarse
cry, that sounded strange and startling even to ourselves.  Instantly, as it seemed, the whale
drove almost perpendicularly downwards, but so great was its momentum, that its fluked tail
cut the air within an oar's length of the boat as it disappeared.

Whether the shout we had uttered, caused the sudden plunge to which we owed our preservation,
it is impossible to decide.  Notwithstanding its bulk and power, the cachelot is said to be
a timid creature, except when injured or enraged, and great caution has to be exercised by
whalers in approaching them.  Suddenly recollecting this, the thought of undertaking to scare
the formidable monster, had suggested itself to Morton, and he had acted upon it in sheer desperation,
impelled by the same instinct that causes a drowning man to catch even at a straw.

But, however obtained, our reprieve from danger was only momentary.  The whale came to the
surface at no great distance, and once more headed towards us.  If frightened for an instant,
it had quickly recovered from the panic, and now there was no mistaking the creature's purpose:
it came on, exhibiting every mark of rage, and with jaws literally wide open.  We felt that
no device or effort of our own could be of any avail.  We might as well hope to resist a tempest,
or an earthquake, or the shock of a falling mountain, as that immense mass of matter, instinct
with life and power, and apparently animated by brute fury.

Every hope had vanished, and I think that we were all in a great measure resigned to death,
and fully expecting it when there came, (as it seemed to us, by actual miracle), a most wonderful
interposition.

A dark, bulky mass, (in the utter bewilderment of the moment we noted nothing distinctly of
its appearance), shot perpendicularly from the sea twenty feet into the air, and fell with
a tremendous concussion, directly upon the whale's back.  It must have been several tons in
weight, and the blow inflicted was crushing.  For a moment the whale seemed paralysed by the
shock, and its vast frame quivered with agony; but recovering quickly, it rushed with open
jaws upon its strange assailant which immediately dived, and both vanished.  Very soon, the
whale came to the surface again; and now we became the witnesses of one of those singular and
tremendous spectacles, of which the vast solitudes of the tropical seas are doubtless often
the theatre, but which human eyes have rarely beheld.

The cachelot seemed to be attacked by two powerful confederates, acting in concert.  The one
assailed it from below, and continually drove it to the surface, while the other--the dark
bulky object--repeated its singular attacks in precisely the same manner as at first, whenever
any part of the gigantic frame of the whale was exposed, never once missing its mark, and inflicting
blows, which one would think, singly sufficient to destroy any living creature.  At times the
conflict was carried on so near us, as to endanger our safety; and we could see all of the
combatants with the utmost distinctness, though not at the same time. The first glimpse which
we caught of the second antagonist of the whale, as it rose through the water to the attack,
enabled us at once to identify it as that most fierce and formidable creature--the Pacific
Sword-fish.

The other, as I now had an opportunity to observe, was a fish of full one third the length
of the whale itself, and of enormous bulk in proportion; it was covered with a dark rough skin,
in appearance not unlike that of an alligator.  The cachelot rushed upon its foes alternately,
and the one thus singled out invariably fled, until the other had an opportunity to come to
its assistance; the sword-fish swimming around in a wide circle at the top of the water, when
pursued, and the other diving when chased in its turn.  If the whale followed the sword-fish
to the surface, it was sure to receive a stunning blow from its leaping enemy; if it pursued
the latter below, the sword-fish there attacked it fearlessly, and, as it appeared, successfully,
forcing it quickly back to the top of the water.

Presently the battle began to recede from us, the whale evidently making towards the school,
which was at no great distance; and strange as the sight was, we watched it with but a languid
interest, as soon as our safety appeared to be no longer involved.  The whale must have been
badly hurt for the water which it threw up on coming to the surface and spouting, was tinged
with blood.  After this I saw no more of the sword-fish and his associate; they had probably
abandoned the attack. [See note.] As nearly as I can recollect, we did not, either during the
progress of the fight, or after it was over, exchange a single word on the subject, so dumb
and apathetic had we become.  After a while the school of whales appeared to be moving off,
and in half an hour more, we lost sight of them altogether.

All this while, Johnny had continued to sleep soundly, and his slumbers seemed more natural
and refreshing than before.  When at length he awoke, the delirium had ceased, and he was calm
and gentle, but so weak that he could not sit up without being supported.  After the disappearance
of the whales, several hours passed, during which we lay under our awning without a word being
spoken by any one.  Throughout this day, the sea seemed to be alive with fish; myriads of them
were to be seen in every direction; troops of agile and graceful dolphins; revolving black-fish,
chased by ravenous sharks; leaping albatross, dazzling the eye with the flash of their golden
scales, as they shot into the air for a moment; porpoises, bonito, flying-fish, and a hundred
unknown kinds which I had never seen or heard of.  At one time we were surrounded by an immense
shoal of small fishes, about the size of mackerel, so densely crowded together that their backs
presented an almost solid surface, on which it seemed as if one might walk dry-shod. None,
however, came actually within our reach, and we made no effort to approach them.

From the time of our wonderful escape from being destroyed by the whale, until the occurrence
which I am about to relate, I remember nothing distinctly--all seems vague and dream-like.
I could not say with confidence, from my own knowledge, whether the interval consisted of several
days, or of only a few feverish and half-delirious hours; nor whether the sights and sounds
of which I have a confused recollection, were real, or imaginary.  I think, however, that it
must have been in the afternoon of the same day, (Arthur is confident that it was), that Morton
came to me as I lay in the bottom of the boat in a state of utter desperation and self-abandonment
and aroused me, saying in a hoarse and painful whisper, that there was a vessel in sight. 
Even this announcement hardly sufficed to overcome the stupor into which I had sunk, and it
was with a reluctant effort, and a feeling akin to annoyance at being disturbed, that I sat
up and looked around me.  My eyes were so much inflamed that I could see nothing distinctly.

The first thing that I observed, was, that the calm was at an end.  A breeze had sprung up,
and was blowing gently but pretty steadily from the south.  The surface of the sea was slightly
ruffled, and its dead stagnant aspect, had given place to one of breezy freshness.  In this
change there was something reviving and strengthening.  Far to the south, where Morton pointed
out the vessel which he had discovered, I could just distinguish a white speck upon the water,
which seemed more like the crest of a wave than any thing else.  Morton had already called
Arthur's attention to it, and he was watching it intently.  Gradually it became more distinct,
and in half an hour, I too, could make it out plainly, to be a small sailing vessel of some
description.  As she was coming directly down before the wind, there seemed to be no need of
doing any thing to attract her attention.  I now hastened to reanimate Max and Browne, by communicating
to them the intelligence that relief was probably at hand.  In three-quarters of an hour more,
the strange sail was near enough to enable us to see that she was a large double canoe, such
as is used by some of the islanders of the South Pacific, in their trading voyages.  It had
two masts, with large triangular mat-sails, and appeared to contain six or seven persons only,
whom we supposed to be natives of some neighbouring island.  As soon as they were within speaking
distance, one of them, to our great astonishment hailed us in French.  Arthur undertook to
answer in the same language, when the other, probably perceiving that the French was not his
native tongue, spoke to us in tolerable English, but with a strong French accent.  It was easy
to perceive, now that our attention was particularly called to him, that the spokesman was
a European.  Though almost naked like the rest, and elaborately tattooed upon the chest and
shoulders, his light hair and beard, and florid though sun-burnt skin, sufficiently distinguished
him from them.  Of course the first thing with us, was to make known our wants, and to ask
for food, and above all for water.  As soon as they could bring the canoe near enough, the
Frenchman watching his opportunity, reached out to us a large gourd containing water, of which
we drank plentifully, passing it round several times.  Arthur hastened to pour a little into
Johnny's mouth, and the effect was astonishing: he seemed to revive almost instantaneously,
and, sitting up, he seized the gourd himself and drank eagerly as long as Arthur would let
him.  The Frenchman next tossed us something wrapped in banana leaves, a thick, dark-coloured
paste of some kind.  It was enough that it was an article of food, and we devoured it without
pausing for any very close examination, though its appearance was by no means inviting, and
it had a crude and slightly acid taste. He threw us also several thin, hard cakes, similar
in taste and colour to the other substance.  Both were probably preparations of the bread-fruit,
the latter being dried and hardened in the sun, or by fire. Ravenously hungry as we were, these
supplies were divided and apportioned with the most scrupulous exactness.  On finding that
the natives were well supplied with water, having several large gourds full, we passed the
calabash round again, until we had drained it dry, when they gave us another gourd.  Meanwhile,
though we were too busy to look about us much, the canoe's people watched us very narrowly,
and in such a manner as to make me feel uneasy and doubtful as to their intentions, notwithstanding
their kindness thus far.  As soon as the first cravings of hunger and thirst were satisfied,
I began to return their scrutiny, and I now observed that they differed in many respects from
the Tahitians, and from all the other Polynesian tribes of which I knew any thing.  Their complexion
was a clear olive; their faces oval, with regular features; their hair straight and black;
their eyes large, and the general expression of their countenances simple and pleasing, though
there were several keen, crafty-looking faces among them.  All were tattooed, more or less
profusely, the chests of some resembling checker-boards, and others being ornamented with rosettes,
and representations of various natural objects, as birds, fishes, trees, etcetera.  Their only
clothing consisted of the maro, a strip of tappa, or native cloth, tied round the loins.  A
wave happening to throw the boats nearly together, one of the natives caught hold of our gunwale
at the stern, and another at the bow, and thus kept the canoe alongside.

They now began to cast searching glances at us, and at every thing in the yawl.  I observed
the Frenchman intently eyeing the handle of one of the cutlasses, which protruded from beneath
a fold of canvass.  He inquired eagerly whether we had any fire-arms, and seemed greatly disappointed
to find that we had not.  He next asked for tobacco, with no better success, which apparently
surprised him very much, for he shrugged his shoulders, and raised his thick eyebrows with
a doubtful and incredulous look.  At this moment the gilt buttons upon Max's jacket seemed
to strike the fancy of one of our new friends, and excited his cupidity to such a degree, that
after fixing upon them a long and admiring gaze, he suddenly reached over and made a snatch
at them.  He got hold of one, and in trying to pull it off came very near jerking Max overboard.
Morton, who was sitting next to Max, interfered, and caught the man by the arm, with a look
and manner that made me fear he might do something imprudent.  The savage, who was an athletic
fellow, obstinately maintained his hold of Max's jacket, and casting a ferocious glance at
Morton, snatched up a short, thick paddle, and brandished it over his head as if about to strike.
Arthur appealed to the Frenchman to interpose, but before he could do so, one of the natives,
a handsome boy, who was seated cross-legged upon a platform between the masts, spoke to the
man in a raised voice, and with an air of authority, whereupon, to my surprise, he immediately
dropped the paddle, and sullenly desisted from his attempt.  This lad, who seemed to be so
promptly obeyed, did not look to be more than thirteen or fourteen years of age.  His voice
was soft and girlish; he had a remarkably open and pleasing countenance, and surveyed us with
an air of friendly interest, very different from the sinister and greedy looks of several of
the others, including the Frenchman himself.  In answer to the questions of the latter, Arthur
told him that we were Americans, and related very briefly how we had come into our present
situation.  He then informed us in turn, that he had been cast away, some six years before,
in a French barque engaged in the tortoise-shell traffic, upon an uninhabited island, about
forty miles from the one where he and those with him, now lived.  After remaining there for
more than a year, he and his companions, having reason to believe that they were in the neighbourhood
of a group occasionally visited by trading vessels, had set out in search of it, in a small
boat.  Their belief as to the existence and situation of these islands proved to be well founded;
they had finally succeeded in reaching them, had been hospitably received and treated by the
natives, among whom they had acquired considerable influence, but had as yet had no opportunity
of returning home.

They were now, he said, on their return from a trading voyage to a neighbouring island, where
they had just disposed of a cargo of mats and tappa, in exchange for baskets of native manufacture,
and sharks' teeth. Having been becalmed all the preceding day and night, they feared that they
had drifted out of their course, since, otherwise, they ought, after making full allowance
for the calm, to have already reached their own island.  He finished by assuring us, that we
might calculate with confidence, upon enjoying perfect security and kind treatment among these
people.

The conference being concluded, he directed us to put up our sail, and steer after the canoe;
adding that he expected to reach the group before midnight if the wind held fair.  He spoke
with the air of one delivering a command, and evidently considered us entirely under his control.
But of course we felt no disposition to object to what he directed.  The fact, that the natives
had treated him and his companions so well, was an encouragement to us, as affording some proof
of their friendly and peaceful character, and we supposed that he could have no possible motive
for using his influence to our prejudice.  Even had there been any other course for us to choose,
to escape perishing, we were in no condition to make any effectual opposition to the will of
our new acquaintances.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note.  This fish story has several rather astonishing features--at least to an inexperienced
landsman.  The sword-fish and thresher are said to seek and attack the right whale together;
but a nautical friend, whom I have consulted on the subject, says he has never heard of their
interfering with the cachelot, or sperm-whale, which would, he thinks, be very likely to make
mince-meat of them both, should they be guilty of such temerity: the right whale uses no other
weapon than his powerful tail; whereas the cachelot goes at an adversary with open jaws.  Upon
my inquiry whether threshers, "of several tons weight," and jumping "twenty feet into the air,"
were common, my friend the captain, seemed piqued at my implied scepticism as to marine monsters,
and briefly made answer, that there were more strange creatures in the sea, than were dreamed
of in my philosophy, and that "many an old sailor could give more real information on the subject,
than all the natural history books in the world."

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

A CATASTROPHE.

THE WHIRLING COLUMNS--A STUPENDOUS SPECTACLE--WE LOSE OUR NEW FRIENDS.

  "Still round and round the fluid vortex flies,
  Scattering dun night, and horror through the skies,
  The swift volution and the enormous train
  Let sages versed in Nature's lore explain;
  The horrid apparition still draws nigh,
  And white with foam the whirling surges fly."

The breeze was now steady, though gentle, and Max and Morton set to work rigging the sail,
which for the last two days had served as an awning.

During our mutual inquiries and explanations, the Frenchman had kept the canoe close alongside
of us; he now braced round the yard of his triangular sail, which had been shaking in the wind,
and began to draw ahead.  The young native who had interfered so effectually in Max's behalf,
observing the eagerness with which we had devoured the doughy mass of pounded bread-fruit,
tossed another cake of the same substance into the boat as we separated, which, when distributed,
afforded a morsel or two to each of us.  I had particularly observed this boy on the first
approach of the canoe, from the circumstance of his occupying a small raised platform, or dais,
of wicker-work, covered with mats.

As our sail had been entirely disengaged from the mast and gaff, it was quite a piece of work
to rig it again for service, and by the time this was effected, the canoe was some distance
ahead of us: though she was far better adapted than the yawl for sailing with a light breeze,
yet we nearly held our own with her, after once getting fairly under way.

When the wind first sprang up, the sky had become slightly overcast with broken masses of clouds,
of a peculiar and unusual appearance.  From the most considerable of these masses, radiated,
as from a centre, long lines, like pencils of light, running in straight, regularly diverging
rays, to the ocean.

We had been sailing in the wake of the canoe, perhaps half an hour, when I observed in the
south-west a singularly shaped cloud, to which a dark column, extending downward to the sea,
appeared to be attached.  This column was quite narrow at the base, but enlarged as it rose,
until just below the point of union with the cloud, it spread outward like a gothic pillar,
diverging into arches as it meets the roof.  I surveyed this strange spectacle for several
minutes before its true character occurred to me.  It was already observed by those in the
canoe, and from their exclamations and gestures, they evidently viewed it with apprehension
and dread.

It was moving slowly towards us, and we also watched, with feelings in which alarm began to
predominate over curiosity and interest, the majestic approach of this vast body of water,
(as we now perceived it to be), held by some secret power suspended between heaven and earth.

"It appears to be moving north before the wind," said Arthur, at length; "if it keeps on its
present course, it will pass by, at a safe distance on our left."

This seemed probable; but we felt disposed to give it a still wider berth, and shifting the
sail, we steered in a north-easterly direction. Scarcely had our sail filled on the new tack,
when a cry of terror again drew attention to the canoe, and the natives were seen pointing
to another water-spout, moving slowly round from the east to the north, and threatening to
intercept us in the course we were pursuing.  This, unlike the first, was a cylindrical column
of water, of about the same diameter throughout its entire length, extending in a straight
and unbroken line from the ocean to the heavens.  Its upper extremity was lost amid a mass
of clouds, in which I fancied I could perceive the effects of the gradual diffusion of the
water drawn from the sea, as it wound its way upward with a rapid spiral motion, and poured
into that elevated reservoir.  As the process went on, the cloud grew darker, and seemed to
stoop with its accumulating weight of waters.

Our position was fast becoming embarrassing and dangerous.  We had changed our course to avoid
the first water-spout and now we were confronted by another still nearer at hand.

For a moment all was confusion, indecision, and dismay.

"Quick! round with her head, and let her go right before the wind!" shouted Max hurriedly.

"That would be running directly into the danger," cried Morton, "they are both moving north,
and approaching each other."

"Then let's pull down the sail, until they are at a safe distance."

"I would rather keep her under headway," said Arthur, "or how could we escape, if one of them
should move down upon us!"

"What can we do, then?" exclaimed Max; "we can't sail in the teeth of the wind."

"I am for going about to the left again, and steering as near the wind as possible," said Arthur;
"the one on that side is farthest north."

This was the course which the natives had already adopted, and they were now steering nearly
south-west.  We immediately followed their example, and the fore and aft rig of the yawl enabled
us to sail nearer the wind than they could do.

In a few moments the funnel-shaped water-spout, which we had first seen, had passed off northward,
and was at such a distance as to remove all apprehensions on account of it.  Not so, however,
with the second; for hardly had we tacked again, when, notwithstanding that we were to windward
of it, it began to move rapidly towards us.

Its course was not direct and uniform, but it veered now to the right and now to the left,
rendering it difficult for us to decide which way to steer in order to avoid it.

Arthur sat at the helm, pale, but quite calm and collected, his eyes steadfastly fixed on the
advancing column, while Johnny crouched at his side, holding fast one of his hands in both
his own.  Morton held the sheet and stood ready to shift the sail, as the emergency might require.

Onward it came, towering to the skies, and darkening the ocean with its impending bulk; soon
we could perceive the powerful agitation of the water far around its base, and within the vortex
of its influence: a dense cloud of spray, thrown off in its rapid revolutions, enveloped its
lower extremity: the rushing sound of the water as it was drawn upward, was also distinctly
audible.  And now it seemed to take a straight course for the canoe.  The natives, with the
exception of the boy, threw themselves down in the bottom of the boat in abject terror; it
was, indeed, an appalling spectacle, and calculated to shake the stoutest heart, to see that
vast mass of water, enough as it seemed, to swamp the navies of the world, suspended so strangely
over them.

The Frenchman appeared to be endeavouring to get the natives to make some exertion, but in
vain.  He and the boy then seized a couple of paddles, and made a frantic effort to escape
the threatened danger; but the whirling pillar was almost upon them, and it seemed as though
they were devoted to certain destruction.  The Frenchman now threw down his paddle, and sat
with his hands folded on his breast, awaiting his fate. The boy, after speaking earnestly to
his companion, who merely shook his head, stood up in the prow of the canoe, and casting one
shuddering look at the dark column, he joined his hands above his head, and plunged into the
sea.  In a moment he came to the surface, and struck out vigorously towards us.

The canoe seemed already within the influence of the water-spout, and was drawn towards it
with the violently agitated waters around its base. The Frenchman, unable longer to endure
the awful sight bowed his head upon his hands; another moment, and he was lost to sight in
the circle of mist and spray that enveloped the foot of the column; then a strong oscillation
began to be visible in the body of the water-spout; it swayed heavily to and fro; the cloud
at its apex seemed to stoop, and the whole mass broke and fell, with a noise that might have
been heard for miles.  The sea, far around, was crushed into smoothness by the shock; immediately
where the vast pillar had stood, it boiled like a caldron; then a succession of waves, white
with foam, came circling outward from the spot, extending even to us.

The native boy, who swam faster than we sailed, was already within forty or fifty yards of
us, and we put about and steered for him: in a moment he was alongside, and Arthur, reaching
out his hand, helped him into the boat.

The sea had now resumed its usual appearance, and every trace of the water-spout was gone,
so that it was impossible to fix the spot where it had broken.  Not a vestige of the canoe,
or of her ill-fated company, was anywhere to be seen.  We sailed backward and forward in the
neighbourhood of the place, carefully scrutinising the surface in every direction, and traversing
several times the spot, as nearly as we could determine it, where the canoe had last been seen:
but our search was fruitless: the long billows swelled and subsided with their wonted regularity,
and their rippled summits glittered as brightly in the sunshine as ever, but they revealed
no trace of those whom they had so suddenly and remorselessly engulfed.

The water-spout which had first been seen, had disappeared, and a few heavy clouds in the zenith
alone remained, as evidences of the terrific phenomenon which we had just witnessed.

CHAPTER TWELVE.

OUR ISLAND HOME.

THE ILLUSION OF THE GOLDEN HAZE--THE WALL OF BREAKERS--A STRUGGLE FOR LIFE--THE ISLET OF PALMS.

  "Keel never ploughed that lonely sea,
  That isle no human eye hath viewed;
  Around it still in tumult rude,
  The surges everlastingly,
  Burst on the coral-girded shore
  With mighty bound and ceaseless roar;
  A fresh unsullied work of God,
  By human footstep yet untrod."

The native lad now seemed to be quite overwhelmed with grief.  He had made no manifestations
of it while we were endeavouring to discover some trace of his companions, but when at length
we relinquished the attempt, and it became certain that they had all perished, he uttered a
low, wailing cry, full of distress and anguish, and laying his head upon his hands, sobbed
bitterly.

The Frenchman had told us that the island lay to the northward; and we now put the head of
the boat in that direction, steering by the sun, which was just setting.

When the first violence of the boy's grief had somewhat abated, Arthur spoke to him gently,
in the dialect of the Society Islands.  He listened attentively, turning his large eyes upon
Arthur's face with an expression of mingled timidity and interest and replied in a low, musical
voice.  They seemed to understand one another, and talked together for some time.  The language
spoken by the boy, differed so little, as Arthur told us, from that of the Tahitians, that
he easily gathered the meaning of what he said.  Upon being questioned as to the distance of
the island, and the course which we must steer in order to reach it, he pointed to a bright
star, just beginning to be visible in the north-east.

It is customary with the South-sea Islanders, before setting out on their long voyages, in
which it is necessary to venture out of sight of land, to select some star by which to regulate
their course in the night-time; this they call the "aveia," or guiding star of the voyage.
They are thus enabled to sail from island to island, and from group to group, between which
all intercourse would otherwise be impossible without a compass.  The star now pointed out
to us, had been fixed upon by the companions of the little islander, at the commencement of
their ill-fated voyage, as marking the direction of the home which they were destined never
to regain.  Among other things, we learned from the boy, that his native island, which we were
now endeavouring to reach, was the largest of a group of three, over all of which his father's
authority, as chief or king, extended: that there were six whites living among them, who had
arrived there many years before, with the one who had just perished, and had come from an uninhabited
island to the southward, upon which they had been wrecked.

During the night the wind continued fair, and animated by the hopes to which the statements
of the little native had given rise, we renewed our watch, which had lately been discontinued,
and sailed steadily northward, cherishing a strong confidence that we should reach land before
morning.

The second watch--from a little after midnight to dawn--fell to me.  As it began to grow light
I almost feared to look northward, dreading the shock of a fresh disappointment, that must
consign us again to the benumbing apathy from which we had yesterday rallied.

There seemed to me to be something unusual in the atmosphere, that impeded, or rather confused
and bewildered the sight; and when the sun rose, I had not made out anything like land.  It
was not mist or fog, for the air was dry, and there were already indications of a fiercely
hot day, though it was yet fresh and cool.  The sky above us, too, was perfectly clear, all
the clouds seemed to have slid down to the horizon, along which a white army of them was marshalled,
in rounded fleecy masses, like Alpine peaks towering one above another, or shining icebergs,
pale and cold as those that drift in Arctic seas.

One by one my companions awoke to learn the failure, thus far, of all the sanguine expectations
of the preceding evening.  The native boy could suggest no reason why we had not reached the
island, and when questioned on the subject, and told that we had steered all through the night
by the "aveia," he merely shook his head with a bewildered and hopeless look.  Max, on perceiving
that we were still out of sight of land, threw himself down again in the bottom of the boat
without speaking a word, where he remained with his eyes closed as if sleeping.

Arthur, after some further conversation with the little islander, came to the conclusion that
in steering due north, we had not made sufficient allowance for the strong current setting
westward; and he proposed that we should now sail directly east, to which no objection was
made, most of us having at last come to feel that it could matter little what course we thenceforth
steered.  He accordingly took the direction of things into his own hands: the wind, which had
moderated, was still from the west, and he put the boat before it, and lashed the helm.  The
peculiar appearance of the atmosphere still continued.  During the morning a number of tropic
birds flew by us, the first that we had seen since our separation from the ship.  About noon,
two noddies alighted on the gaff, and the little native climbed the mast after them; but though
they are generally so tame, or so stupid, as to permit themselves to be approached and taken
with the hand, these flew away before he could seize them.  We hailed the appearance of these
birds as a favourable omen, neither species being often seen at any considerable distance from
land.  It was, I suppose, about an hour after this, that happening to look back, I saw what
appeared to be a high island, covered with tall groves of palms, some two miles distant.  The
elevated shores, and the green tops of the trees, were plainly visible; but just at the point
where land and water met, there was a kind of hazy indistinctness in the view.  We were sailing
directly from it, and I could not understand how we had passed as near as we must have done,
without observing it. Browne, catching sight of it almost at the same time with myself, uttered
an exclamation that quickly aroused the attention of the rest, and we all stood for a moment
gazing, half incredulously, upon the land which seemed to have started up so suddenly out of
the sea, in the very track which we had just passed over.

Arthur alone, appeared to be but little moved; he looked long and intently, without uttering
a word.

"This is singular--very singular!" said Morton.  "It seems as though we must have sailed over
the very spot where it lies."

"Unless I am mistaken," said Arthur, "we have been going backward for some time past: we must
be in a very powerful current, which is carrying us in a direction contrary to that in which
we are heading: the wind is so light that this is not impossible."

"I believe you are right," said Morton, "I can account for it in no other way."

"We had better then pull down the sail, and take the benefit of the full force of the current,"
resumed Arthur: this was accordingly done, and the mast unstepped.

A short time passed, during which we appeared to be steadily drawing nearer to the land.  The
shore itself where it emerged from the ocean, we could not see with perfect distinctness: a
fine, golden haze, like a visible atmosphere, waved and quivered before it, half veiling it
from sight, and imparting to it an uncertain, though bright and dazzling aspect: but this appearance
was confined to the lower part of the land; the bold shores and high groves were clearly defined.

"I trust we are not the subjects of some fearful illusion," said Browne, breaking a long silence,
during which all eyes had been rivetted upon the island; "but there is something very strange
about all this--it has an unearthly look."

As he spoke, the bright haze which floated over the sea near the surface, began to extend itself
upward, and to grow denser and more impervious to the sight: the wooded shores became indistinct
and dim, and seemed gradually receding in the distance, until the whole island, with its bold
heights and waving groves, dissolved and melted away like a beautiful vision.

"What is this?" exclaimed Browne, in a voice of horror.  "I should think, if I believed such
things permitted, that evil spirits had power here on the lonely sea, and were sporting with
our misery."

"It is a mirage," said Arthur quietly, "as I suspected from the first. But courage! though
what we have seen was an optical illusion, there must be a real island in the distance beyond,
of which this was the elevated and refracted image.  It cannot, I think, be more than thirty
or forty miles off, and the current is sweeping us steadily towards it."

"I suppose then," said Morton, "that we can do nothing better, than to trust ourselves entirely
to this current which must in fact be a pretty powerful one--at least as rapid as the Gulf Stream."

"We can do nothing better until the wind changes," replied Arthur, cheerfully; "at present
I am disposed to think we are doing very well, and fast approaching land."

But there was no change of the wind, and we continued hour after hour, apparently making no
progress, but in reality, as we believed, drifting steadily westward.  All through the day
we maintained a vigilant watch, lest by any possibility we should miss sight of the island
which Arthur was so confident we were approaching.  Late in the afternoon we saw a flock of
gannets, and some sooty tern; the gannets passing so near that we could hear the motion of
their long twisted wings.  Later still, a number of small reef-birds passed over head; all
were flying westward. This confirmed Arthur in his belief of the proximity of land.  "See,"
said he, "these little reef-birds are bound in the same direction with the others, and with
ourselves; you may depend upon it, that the sea-fowl we have seen, are hastening homeward to
their nests, on some not far distant shore."

So fully did I share this confidence, that I commenced a calculation as to the time at which
we might expect to reach land.  Assuming it to have been thirty miles distant at the time when
we had seen its spectrum, by means of the refraction, arising from a peculiar state of the
atmosphere; and estimating the rate of the current at three miles an hour, I came to the conclusion
that we could not even come in sight of it until late at night; and it was therefore without
any strong feeling of disappointment, that I saw the day fast drawing to a close, and nothing
but sky and ocean yet visible.

The sun had already set, but the long tract of crimson and flame-coloured clouds that glowed
in the horizon where he had disappeared, still reflected light enough to render it easy to
distinguish objects in that quarter, when I was startled by a cry of joyful surprise from the
native boy, who, shading his eyes with his hands, was looking intently westward.  After a long
and earnest gaze, he spoke eagerly to Arthur, who told us that the boy thought he saw his native
island.  Looking in the same direction, I could make out nothing. Arthur and Browne spoke of
a brilliantly white line, narrow, but well-defined against the horizon, as being all that they
could see. Morton, who was very keen-sighted, thought that he distinguished some dark object
beyond the low white band seen by the others.  As the light gradually failed, we lost sight
of this appearance.  It was some hours before the rising of the moon, which we awaited with
anxiety.  She was now at her full, and when at length she came up out of the sea, her disc,
broad and red like a beamless sun, seemed to rest, dilated to preternatural size, upon the
edge of the last wave that swelled against the horizon.  As she ascended the sky, she shed
over the ocean a flood of silvery light, less glaring, but almost as bright as that of day.
The wonderful brilliancy of the moon and stars within the tropics, is one of the first things
noted by the voyager.  It may be owing to the great clearness and transparency of the atmosphere:
but whatever the cause, their light is much more powerful than in higher latitudes, and they
seem actually nearer, and of greater magnitude.

We now looked eagerly westward again; the snow-white line, of which the others had spoken,
was by this time distinctly visible to me also, and beyond it, too plainly relieved against
the clear blue of the sky, to admit of doubt or illusion, were the high outlines of a tropical
island, clothed with verdure to its summit.

Again the little islander shouted joyously, and clasped his hands, while the tears streamed
down his olive cheeks.

He recognised his native island, the smallest and most easterly of the three, of which his
father was the chief.  We should soon come in sight of the remaining two, he said, which were
lower, and lay to the north and south of it; he explained that the appearance, like a low white
line running along the base of the island, was caused by the surf, bursting upon a coral reef
about a mile from the shore.

Here then, at last, was the land which we had at one time despaired of ever beholding again,
and now we were well assured that it was no airy phantasm; yet strange as it may seem, our
feelings were not those of unmingled joy.

A thousand vague apprehensions and surmises of evil, began to suggest themselves, as we approached
this unknown shore, inhabited by savages, and under the dominion of a savage.  We doubted not
that we might depend upon the good-will, and friendly offices of the little native, but we
felt at the same time, that the influence of one so young, might prove insufficient for our
protection.

We were in some measure acquainted with the savage customs, the dark and cruel rites, that
prevailed among the Polynesian races generally, and had often listened with horror, to the
recital of what Arthur and his uncle had themselves seen, of their bloody superstitions, and
abominable practices.  As I looked into the faces of my companions, it was easy to perceive
that they were possessed by anxious and gloomy thoughts.

Meanwhile, the current continued to sweep us steadily onward toward the shore, the outlines
of which became every moment more distinct. Occasionally a cloud drifted athwart the moon,
and cast a soft shade upon the sea, obscuring the view for a time; but when it had passed,
the land seemed to have drawn perceptibly nearer during the interval.  At length, when the
night was far advanced, and the island was right before us, at the distance of scarcely a mile,
the native lad, who had been gazing wistfully toward it for the last half-hour, uttered a plaintive
cry of disappointment.  He had looked long and anxiously, for the appearance of the two remaining
islands of his father's group, but in vain; and now he yielded reluctantly to the conviction,
that he had been deceived by the white line of surf, similar to that which bounded on one side
his native island, and that he had never before seen the one which we were approaching.  This
discovery was a relief to me, and removed a weight of apprehension from my mind.  The thought
of being cast upon a desert and uninhabited shore, seemed less dreadful, than that of falling
into the power of a tribe of savage islanders, even under circumstances which would probably
secure us a friendly reception.

But now a strange and unforeseen difficulty presented itself.  Between us and the island, stretched
a barrier reef, running north and south, and curving westward; and appearing, as far as we
could see, completely to surround it.  Along the whole line of this reef the sea was breaking
with such violence as to render all approach dangerous; neither could we espy any break or
opening in it, through which to reach the shore. Towards this foaming barrier the current was
rapidly bearing us, and we were too feeble to struggle long against its force.  To permit ourselves
to be carried upon the reef would be certain destruction, and our only hope of safety seemed
to lie in discovering some inlet through it.  Our true situation flashed upon me all at once;
I had not before thought of the impossibility of receding.  Glancing at Arthur, I caught his
eye, and saw that he comprehended the full extent of the danger.  "We are near enough to see
any break in the reef," said he, "let us now take to the oars, and coast along it in search
of one."

This was accordingly done.  But it was not until we had pulled along the shore for some time,
and found that in spite of our endeavours to preserve our distance from it, we were steadily
forced nearer, that the rest seemed aware of the imminence of the danger.

"The current is carrying us among the breakers," exclaimed Morton, at length, "though we are
heading rather away from the shore, we are getting closer every moment."  This appalling fact
was now apparent to all.

"The wind seems to have died away," said Browne, "at any rate there is not enough of it to
help us: we must put about and pull out of the reach of this surf, or we are lost."

"How long do you suppose we can continue that?" said Arthur.  "No, our only hope is in finding
an entrance through the reef, and that speedily."

We now steered a little farther away, and strained at the oars, as those who struggle for life.
Occasionally, when lifted on the crest of a wave, we caught a transient glimpse of a smooth
expanse of water beyond the foaming line of surf, and extending from the inner edge of the
reef, to the shore of the island.  The tall tops of the palms bordering the beach, seemed scarcely
a stone's throw distant and you could fancy that, but for the roar of the breakers, you might
hear the rustling of their long, drooping leaves; but it only added to the horror of our situation,
to see that safe and peaceful haven, so near, yet so inaccessible.

In some places the reef rose quite out of the water; in others, it was, in nautical phrase,
"all awash;" but nowhere could we attempt a landing with safety.  All the while, too, it was
evident that in spite of our desperate exertions, we were being driven nearer and nearer the
breakers.  This kind of work had continued almost an hour, when our strength began to fail.

"There appears to be no use in this, comrades," said Browne, at last; "had we not better just
let her go upon the reef, and take our chance of being able to get to the shore?"

"O, no!" exclaimed Arthur, earnestly, "that is too desperate."

"We shall be so completely exhausted that we shan't be able to make an effort for our lives,
when at last we are carried into the surf," answered Browne, "and we must come to that sooner
or later."

"I hope not--there is reason to hope not," rejoined Arthur, "but if so, we may as well be exhausted,
as fresh; no strength will be of any avail; we shall be crushed and mangled upon the rocks;
or if by any possibility some of us should reach the shore, what is to become of our poor,
sick Johnny?"

"I will look after him," said Browne, "I will pledge myself that he shan't be lost, unless
I am too."

"Let us hold out a few moments yet," implored Arthur; "I will take your oar; you are the only
one who has not been relieved."

"No," said Browne, "you had better keep the helm; I can stand it a while longer, and I will
pull until we are swept upon the reef; if you all think that the best plan."

It was barely possible that if we should now act as Browne proposed, we might be carried clear
off the reef into the lagoon beyond, for we were opposite a sunken patch, upon which there
was more water than at other places.  Failing of this, the boat would inevitably be dashed
to pieces; but still, if not bruised and disabled among the rocks, or carried back by the return
waves, we might be able to reach the smooth water inside the reef, when it would be easy to
swim ashore.

But to most of us, the attempt seemed too desperate to be thought of, except as a last resort;
and we preferred to toil at the oars as long as our strength should last in the hope of discovering
an inlet.  Arthur, on whose skill and judgment we all relied, steered still farther out, and
for a while we seemed to make head against the swell and the current.

For full half an hour longer, we kept up this severe struggle, that admitted not of an instant's
pause or respite.  But then our progress became almost imperceptible, and every stroke was
made more feebly and laboriously than the last.  I could hardly hold the oar in my stiffened
fingers.  Still no break was to be seen in the long line of surf which seemed to hem in the
island, extending like a white wall, of uniform height, far as the eye could reach, on either
hand.  I had read of islands, like that of Eimeo, completely encircled by coral reefs, with
but a single gateway by which they were accessible.  What if this were such an one, and the
only entrance, miles from the spot where we were toiling for our lives!  The conviction that
we must risk the chance of success in an attempt to land upon some ledge of the reef, was forcing
itself upon all our minds, when Max, trembling with eagerness, pointed to what appeared to
be an opening through the surf, nearly opposite us; there was a narrow space where the long
waves, as they rolled towards the shore, did not seem to encounter the obstacle over which
they broke with such violence on both sides of it, and the swell of the ocean met the placid
waters of the lagoon, without any intervening barrier. Through this gap, the shore of the island
could be seen, down to the water's edge.

Arthur hastily made a bundle of the mast and gaff, and placing it within Johnny's reach, told
him to cling to it, in case of accident.  Then, calling upon us to pull steadily, he steered
directly for the inlet.  As we neared it the noise of the surf became almost deafening: the
huge rollers, as they thundered against the perpendicular wall of coral, rising abruptly from
the depths of the sea, sent up a column of foam and spray, twelve or fifteen feet into the
air.  When just within the entrance, the spectacle was grand and appalling.  But the danger,
real or apparent, was soon over: with a firm hand, and steady eye, Arthur guided the boat along
the centre of the narrow pass, and in a moment we had glided from the scene of fierce commotion
without the reef, into one of perfect tranquillity and repose.  A dozen strokes seemed to have
placed us in a new world.  Involuntarily we rested on our oars, and gazed around us in silence.

From the inner edge of the reef, to the broad white beach of the island, a space of perhaps
half a mile, spread the clear expanse of the lagoon, smooth and unruffled as the surface of
an inland lake.  Half-way between the reef and the shore, were two fairy islets, the one scarcely
a foot above the water, and covered with a green mantle of low shrubs; the other, larger and
higher, and adorned by a group of graceful young cocoa-nuts.

The island itself was higher, and bolder in its outlines than is usual with those of coral
formation, which are generally very low, and without any diversity of surface.  Dense groves
clothed that portion of it opposite to us, nearly to the beach, giving it at that hour, a somewhat
gloomy and forbidding aspect.

As we surveyed this lovely, but silent and desolate landscape, the doubts and apprehensions
which we had before experienced began once more to suggest themselves; but they were dissipated
by the cheerful voice of Arthur, calling upon us to pull for the shore.  He steered for the
larger of the two islets, and when, as the boat grated upon the coral tops beside it, we threw
down the oars, the strength which had hitherto sustained us, seemed suddenly to fail, and we
could scarcely crawl ashore.  The last scene of effort and danger, had taxed our powers to
the uttermost, and now they gave way.  I was so feeble, that I could hardly avoid sinking helplessly
upon the sand.  With one impulse we kneeled down and returned thanks to Him Who had preserved
us through all the strange vicissitudes of the last few days.  We next began to look round
in search of such means of refreshment as the spot might afford.

The cocoa-palms upon the islet, though far from having attained their full growth, (few of
them exceeding twelve feet in height), bore abundantly, and we easily procured as much of the
fruit as we needed. Tearing off the outer husk, and punching a hole through the shell, which
in the young nut is so soft that this can be done with the finger, we drank off the refreshing
liquor with which it is filled; then breaking it open, the half-formed, jelly-like kernel,
furnished a species of food most nutritious and agreeable, and probably the best adapted to
our half-famished condition.

Hunger and thirst being appeased, our next care was to make some arrangement for passing the
night more comfortably than could be done in the boat.  Selecting a clear space in the centre
of the group of young cocoa-nuts, we proceeded to make a rude tent, by fixing two of the oars
upright in the ground,--tying the mast across their tops and throwing the sail over it, the
ends being then fastened to the ground at a convenient distance on each side.

Finding that the bare ground would make a rather hard couch, though far less so than we had
lately been accustomed to, Morton proposed that we should bring a load of leaves from the neighbouring
shore to spread upon it.  He and I accordingly rowed over to the mainland, and collected in
the grove near the beech, a boatload of the clean dry foliage of the pandanus and hibiscus,
which made excellent elastic beds.  Johnny watched our departure as though he considered this
an exceedingly rash and adventurous enterprise, and he seemed greatly relieved at our safe
return.  It was now past midnight, and after hauling the boat well up on the shore, we laid
down side by side and were very soon asleep.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

THE EXPLORING EXPEDITION.

EIULO--PEARL-SHELL BEACH--A WARLIKE COLONY--AN INVASION REPELLED.

  "They linger there while weeks and months go by,
  And hold their hope, tho' weeks and months are past;
  And still at morning round the farthest sky,
  And still at eve, their eager glance is cast,
  If there they may behold the far-off mast
  Arise, for which they have not ceased to pray."

For a number of days we remained upon the islet where we had first landed, seldom visiting
even the adjacent shore.  During this time we subsisted upon cocoa-nuts and a small species
of shell-fish, resembling mussels, which we obtained in abundance from the ledges of the neighbouring
reef, and which the little native told us, were used as a common article of food among his
own people.  We had reason to feel grateful that, while we were as feeble and incapable of
exertion as we found ourselves for some days, food could be so readily procured.  It was also
fortunate that during this period the weather continued remarkably fine and mild, with no perceptible
variations of temperature; for I have little doubt that in the reduced and exhausted condition
in which we then were, and being without any effectual shelter, two or three days of bad weather
would have cost some of us our lives.  The nights were dry and mild, and no dew seemed to fall
upon the islet: thanks to this genial weather, and to abundance of nourishing food, we began
rapidly to recover strength.

Some time passed before we thought of making any attempt to penetrate or explore the island.
We were, naturally, very reluctant to admit even to ourselves, the probability that our stay
upon it was to be of any long duration; and we did not therefore feel as much interest in its
character and resources as we should otherwise have done.  All our thoughts and hopes ran in
one channel.  We looked for the coming of a ship to rescue us from our dreary position; and
every morning and evening, at least, and generally many times a day, some one of us climbed
into the tuft of an inclining palm, to take a careful survey of that portion of the ocean,
which could be seen from our side of the island.  The thought of acting in any respect as though
the lonely spot where we now found ourselves was destined to be our permanent abode, was in
fact too painful and repugnant to our feelings to be willingly entertained; we were content
therefore, to provide for our daily wants as they arose, without anticipating or preparing
for the future.

A few days passed in this unvaried and monotonous routine, seemed in reality a long period;
recent occurrences began to assume the vagueness of things that had happened years ago.  I
remember particularly, that, in looking back at the dreadful scenes of the mutiny, and our
subsequent sufferings at sea, the whole seemed unreal, and more like a horrible dream, than
an actual part of our past experience.

We soon found that this inert and aimless mode of living--this state of passive expectation,
while awaiting the occurrence of an event which we could do nothing to procure or hasten, was
a most miserable one: though our physical strength was in a great measure recruited, there
was no increase of cheerfulness.  Except when engaged in procuring food, or making our daily
surveys of the ocean, (which was all our occupation), we were dispirited and listless.

Arthur perceived the evil of this state of things, and set himself to devising a remedy.

We had been at the island about two weeks, when he proposed, one morning, that we should go
over to the mainland and commence a search for water, making an excursion a little way into
the interior, if it should prove necessary.

Max objected to this, saying that we had no need of water, since we could, without doubt, obtain
cocoa-nut milk as long as we should be obliged to remain upon the island, and that by going
into the interior, out of sight of the ocean, we might lose an opportunity of being rescued.

To this, Arthur replied, that the exclusive use of cocoa-nut milk was considered very unwholesome,
and was supposed to be the cause of certain dropsical complaints, common among the natives
of many of the Pacific islands; that beside; it was by no means certain that a supply of it
could be obtained throughout the year.  He finally suggested the possibility that our stay
on the island might be longer than we anticipated, in which case its resources, and the means
of subsistence which it afforded, would be matters of great interest to us.  In regard to the
danger which Max seemed chiefly to fear, he said that we should seldom altogether lose sight
of the ocean, but might, on the contrary, obtain a wider view of it from other parts of the
island.  I warmly seconded Arthur's proposal, for I perceived the probable beneficial effects
of effort, or occupation, of almost any kind.  Morton also was decidedly in favour of it; and
Johnny, who had recovered strength and spirits wonderfully within the last few days, was quite
enthusiastic for the excursion.  He calculated confidently upon our discovering a creek of
fresh water, full of fishes and lobsters, and cited the history of the Swiss family Robinson,
in support of the reasonableness of these expectations; declaring that for us part, he could
not see why we might not count upon equal good fortune with them.  Browne seemed indifferent
about the matter.  The little native, (whose name, upon Arthur's authority, I shall write "Eiulo,"
though "Iooloo," comes nearer to the sound, as he himself pronounced it), shared in Johnny's
delight in prospect of the expedition; indeed, the two had already become the best friends
in the world, notwithstanding the difficulty of communicating with one another, and seemed
to harmonise in every thing.  The excursion was accordingly determined upon, and this being
so, there was nothing to prevent our setting out at once.

Morton proposed that, instead of undertaking to penetrate into the interior, we should keep
along the shore to the northward, as by that means some idea might be gained of the extent
of the island; and since any considerable spring or stream must find its way to the sea, we
should also be more likely to discover water, than by pursuing the other course.  Along the
southern shore, the land was lower and less uneven than in the opposite direction, and held
forth a slighter prospect of springs or streams.  The difficulty of holding a straight course
through the forest, where we should be without any means of ascertaining the points of the
compass, was a consideration of great weight, and Morton's plan was at last adopted, as being
upon the whole the best.

The sun was not more than half an hour high, when we pushed off from the shore of the islet,
and rowed over towards the mainland.  The morning was fine and clear, and either the fresh,
bracing sea-air, or the stir and excitement of setting out upon our expedition, had an exhilarating
influence, for we gradually became quite cheerful, and even animated; and the faces of my companions
began to brighten up with more of the old familiar expression, than I had seen there for many
a day.

The merest breath of a breeze just stirred the crisp leaves of the palms upon the neighbouring
shore; the tiny wavelets rippled softly upon the snowy, shell-spangled beach, or, out in the
lagoon, danced and sparkled in the sunlight; still further out and just beyond the barrier
that fenced in this quiet and secluded scene from the open ocean, we could see the huge blue
rollers with their foaming crests surging high into the air; and the heavy booming of the surf,
as it thundered upon the reef, might be heard for miles around, amid the prevailing silence.
Beyond this again, stretched away to the horizon, the blue, swelling arch of the ocean--a clear,
deep, intense blue, contrasting beautifully with the paler blue of the sky, against which it
was relieved, and with the emerald expanse of the lagoon.

Browne gazed about him with more interest than I had yet seen him manifest in any thing since
we had reached the island.  He inhaled the fresh morning air with the appearance of actual
relish and enjoyment and at last, to my surprise, (for Max had accused him, not without some
reason, of having been the most lugubrious of our party), he began to sing to a brisk and cheerful
tune--

  "O, happy days of hope and rest
  Shall dawn on sorrow's dreary night,
  Though grief may be an evening guest,
  Yet joy shall come with morning light!
  The light of smiles shall beam again,
  From lids that now o'erflow with tears,
  And weary hours of woe and pain,
  Are earnests of serener years."

"Well," said he, as he finished his song, "this may be a desert island, but I will defy any
one to gainsay that the morning is delicious, and the scene a right lovely one."

"I am glad you begin to wake up to it," said Morton, "it looks very much as it has at this
hour for ten days past."

"No, no," protested Browne, "this bright, clear atmosphere makes a very great difference in
the appearance of things: we have had no such mornings as this."

"I wish you could manage to enjoy it," said Max, "without missing every other stroke, and digging
me so unmercifully in the back with your oar-handle; if you can't, I must ask you to change
seats with me, and let me take the bow-oar."

"How natural and refreshing that sounds!" cried Morton, laughing; "it is a sure token that
prospects are brightening, and serious dangers are over, when we find ourselves again in a
condition to scold about trifles."

"It isn't such a trifle, to be thumped and mauled with the butt of an oar, as I have been all
the while Browne was singing, and rhapsodising, and going into ecstasies about the beauty of
the morning; which is just such another as we have had ever since we have been here; all the
difference being in his feelings, which happen to be a shade or two less doleful than usual,
and so cause things to look brighter."

"Perhaps you would have me believe," answered Browne, "that the sun will invariably shine when
I chance to be in good spirits, and that a thunder-storm would be the natural consequence of
my having a fit of the blues?"

"I should be sorry if that were the case," replied Max, "as we should then be sure to have
a large average of bad weather."

"This excursion reminds me of our school-days," said Arthur; "it almost seems as though we
were once more starting off together, on one of our Saturday rambles, as we have so often done
on fine summer and autumn mornings at home."

"I think I shall never forget those forays through the woods," said Morton, "over hill and
hollow, in search of nuts, or berries, or wild-grapes, or meadow-plums--the fishing and swimming
in summer, the snow-balling, and sledding, and skating, in winter! an innocent and happy set
of urchins we were then!"

"Really," said Max, laughing, "to hear you one would suppose that we were now a conclave of
venerable, grey-haired sages, scarcely able to remember the time when we were children, and
so full of wisdom and experience, that we had long ago ceased to be `innocent and happy.'"

"Without professing to be so wise or experienced, as to be very unhappy on that account," returned
Morton, "I suppose I may say that I am old enough, and sufficiently changed since those days,
to feel, as I now look back upon them with a sigh, their peculiar happiness, so unlike any
thing that after-life affords."

"How singular it is," said Browne, "that you four who were playmates when children, should
have happened to keep together so long."

"And still find ourselves together on an island in the Pacific Ocean, thousands of miles from
home," added Arthur.

"After quitting school," continued Browne, "I never met with any of my comrades there.  Of
all the mates with whom I used on the Saturday half-holydays, to go gathering hips and haws,
or angling in the Clyde, I have not since come in contact with one."

"It don't seem at all like Saturday to me," said Johnny, who for some minutes past had appeared
to have something on his mind, as to the expediency of communicating which he was undecided;
"I was afraid that it was Sunday, every thing is so still; but I hope it is not, for Arthur
would not think it right to start upon an exploring expedition on Sunday, and so it would be
put off."

"Truly," said Browne, "that is extremely flattering to the rest of us. Do you think we are
all heathens, except Arthur?  I, for one, have no notion of becoming a savage, because I am
on a desert island; I shall go for maintaining the decencies of Christianity and civilisation."

"Does any one know what day it really is?" inquired Morton.

Max said he believed it was Monday.  Arthur thought it was Wednesday, and added that he had
memoranda, from which he had no doubt he could fix the day with certainty.

"It was on Friday," said Max, "that the mutiny took place, and that we got to sea in the boat."

"Yes," said Arthur, "and it was on Wednesday night, I think, five days afterwards, that we
landed here."

"Five days!" cried Max.  "Do you mean to say that we were but five days at sea before reaching
the island?"

"I think that is all," replied Arthur, "though the time certainly seems much longer.  Then,
if my calculations are correct, we have been here just two weeks to-day, so that this is Wednesday.
But," continued he, "as our heavenly Father has thus guided our little bark safe through this
wilderness of waters, let us celebrate the day of our landing on this `Canaan,' by making it
our first Sabbath, and our grateful voices shall every seventh day, from this, be lifted up
in praise and thanksgiving for the mercy thus vouchsafed to us."

While this conversation was going on, we reached the shore.  Johnny scrambled eagerly to the
bow, anxious to be the first to land, and he attained this object of his ambition, by jumping
into the water nearly up to his waist, before the boat was fairly beached.  Then, after gazing
around him a moment with exclamations of wonder and admiration, he suddenly commenced running
up and down the wide, firm beach, gathering shells, with as much zeal and earnestness, as though
he was spending a holiday by the sea-side at home, and could tie up these pretty curiosities
in his handkerchief, and run back with them in five minutes to his father's house.  There was
certainly some ground for Johnny's admiration; just at the spot where we had landed, the shore
was thickly strewn, in a manner which I had never before seen equalled, with varieties of the
most curious and beautiful shells.  They were of all sizes, and of every conceivable shape
and colour.  The surfaces of some were smooth and highly polished; others were scolloped, or
fluted, or marked with wave-like undulations.  There were little rice and cowrie shells; mottled
tiger shells; spider shells, with their long, sharp spikes; immense conches, rough, and covered
with great knobs on the outside, but smooth and rose-lipped within, and of many delicate hues.
There were some that resembled gigantic snail shells, and others shaped like the cornucopias,
used to hold sugar-plums for children.  One species, the most remarkable of all, was composed
of a substance, resembling mother-of-pearl, exquisitely beautiful, but very fragile, breaking
easily, if you but set foot on one of them: they were changeable in colour, being of a dazzling
white, a pearly blue, or a delicate pale green, as viewed in different lights.  Scattered here
and there, among these deserted tenements of various kinds of shell-fish, were the beautiful
exuviae and skeletons of star-fish, and sea-eggs; while in the shallow water, numerous living
specimens could be seen moving lazily about.  Among these last, I noticed a couple of sea-porcupines,
bristling with their long, fine, flexible quills, and an enormous conch crawling along the
bottom with his house on his back, the locomotive power being entirely out of sight.

Johnny seemed for the moment to have forgotten every thing else, in the contemplation of these
treasures; and it was not until Arthur reminded him that there was no one to remove or appropriate
them, and that he could get as many as he wanted at any time, that he desisted from his work,
and reluctantly consented to postpone making a collection for the present.

Having drawn the boat high up on the beach, and armed ourselves with a cutlass apiece, (Johnny
taking possession of the longest one of the lot), we commenced our march along the shore, to
the right, without further delay.

We had by this time scarcely a remaining doubt that the island was uninhabited.  No palm-thatched
huts occupied the open spaces, or crowned the little eminences that diversified its windward
side; no wreaths of smoke could be seen rising above the tops of the groves; no canoes, full
of tattooed savages, glided over the still waters within the reef; and no merry troops of bathers
pursued their sports in the surf.  There was nothing to impart life and animation to the scene,
but the varied evolutions of the myriads of sea-fowl, continually swooping, and screaming around
us.  With this exception, a silence like that of the first Sabbath brooded over the island,
which appeared as fresh, and as free from every trace of the presence of man, as if it had
newly sprung into existence.

With the continued absence of every indication of inhabitants our feeling of security had increased
to such an extent, that even Johnny ventured sometimes to straggle behind, or to run on before,
and occasionally made a hasty incursion into the borders of the grove, though he took care
never to be far out of sight or hearing of the main body.  Soon after starting, we doubled
a projecting promontory, and lost sight of the boat and the islet.  The reef bent round to
the north, preserving nearly a uniform distance from the shore, and was without any break or
opening.

The forest in most places, extended nearly to the beach, and was composed chiefly of hibiscus,
pandanus, and cocoa-nut trees, with here and there a large pisonia, close to the lagoon.  One
gigantic specimen of this last species, which we stopped a moment to admire, could not have
been less than twenty feet in girth.  Max, Morton, Arthur, and myself, could not quite span
it, taking hold of hands, and Johnny had to join the ring, to make it complete.  For several
hours we continued our journey pretty steadily, encountering no living thing, except tern,
gannets, and other sea-birds, and one troop of gaudy little paroquets, glittering in green,
and orange, and crimson.  These paroquets were the only land-birds we saw during the day. 
Max pronounced them "frights," because of their large hooked bills, and harsh discordant cries.
They certainly gave Johnny, a terrible "fright," and indeed startled us all a little, by suddenly
taking wing, with loud, hoarse screams, from a hibiscus, beneath which we were resting, without
having observed that they were perched over our heads.

When it was near noon, and we had travelled, as we supposed, making allowance for delays and
deviations, some six or eight miles, the character of the shore suddenly changed.  The white,
shelving beach, and the dense groves meeting it near the water, now disappeared, and were succeeded
by an open strip of land, bordering the lagoon, strewed with huge, irregular fragments of coral
rock, and seamed with gullies.  The line of the forest here receded some distance from the
shore, leaving a broad rounded point, embracing a large area of low and barren ground, covered
thinly with a growth of stunted shrubs, and a few straggling, solitary looking trees.  The
lagoon was at this point quite shallow, and low rocks and coral patches appeared above the
surface, at short distances apart, nearly to the centre of the channel.  The reef opposite,
was entirely under water, and its position was indicated only by a line of breakers.  A large
portion of the point, comprising several acres, was covered with the rude nests of various
aquatic birds.  Many of these nests were occupied even at that hour, and the birds seemed in
no wise alarmed, or even disturbed by our approach.  When we came very close to any of them,
they would survey us with an air half angry, and half inquisitive, stretching out their long
necks; and screwing their heads from side to side, so as to obtain a view of us first with
one eye, and then with the other; this seeming to be considered indispensable to a complete
and satisfactory understanding of our character and intentions.  After a thorough scrutiny,
they would resume their former appearance of stupid indifference, as though we were creatures
altogether too unimportant to merit further notice.  They all, without exception, seemed perfectly
tame and fearless, and quite ready to resent any infringement upon their rights.

Johnny, while inspecting too closely the nest of one of them, curiously constructed of long
stiff reeds, resembling rods of steel, suddenly received, as a rebuke for his impertinence,
a blow from the wing of the offended owner, which laid him sprawling upon his back.

Notwithstanding this severe lesson, the gentle and amiable aspect of a large white bird, so
far reassured him, that he ventured to make some friendly advances, whereupon he got so severely
pecked, that he at once gave up all further attempts at familiarity with any of them.  This
harsh treatment, in fact, so disgusted Johnny with the whole race of sea-birds, and so impaired
his faith in their innocent and inoffensive looks, that he declared he would never have any
thing more to do with them, "since that beautiful white bird had bitten him so savagely, when
he only offered to stroke its neck."

Some of these birds were very large and strong: in several of the unoccupied nests I saw eggs,
as large as those of the duck: they were of different colours some of them prettily speckled
or mottled, but most were of an ash colour, or a whitish brown.  Eiulo pointed out two kinds,
which he said were highly prized for food, and which, as we afterwards found, were, in fact,
nearly equal to the eggs of the domestic duck.

The heat had by this time become exceedingly uncomfortable, and we concluded to halt until
it should abate a little, at the first convenient and pleasant spot.  Leaving the shore, which,
besides being unsheltered from the sun, was so rugged with crevices and gullies, and great
irregular blocks of coral, as to be almost impassable, we entered the borders of the wood,
and took a short cut across the point.  Johnny, in imitation of the desert islanders of the
story-books, desired to give appropriate names to all the interesting or remarkable localities,
with which we became acquainted.  He had already christened the little island on which we had
first landed, "Palm-Islet," and the spot upon the opposite shore, abounding in brilliant shells,
had, from that circumstance, received the impromptu name of "Pearl-shell Beach."  He now proposed
to call the point, "Cape Desolation," from its waste and forbidding aspect; but finally fixed
upon "Sea-bird's Point," as being more appropriate, the birds having, in fact, taken possession
of nearly its entire area, which, judging from the warlike spirit they had displayed, they
were likely to hold against all comers.  Having crossed the point and reached the lagoon again,
we found that the shore resumed its former character.  The forest again extended nearly to
the beach, but it was more open, and not so thickly wooded as before, and the trees were of
a finer growth, and in much greater variety; many of them being of kinds unknown to any of
us.  We had not proceeded far, after regaining the beach, when we espied just such a resting-place
as we were in search of.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

CASTLE-HILL.

THE NOONDAY HALT--A CHARMING RESTING-PLACE--HEATHEN SKILL VERSUS CIVILISATION AND THE STORY-BOOKS.

  "Beneath the tropic rays,
  Where not a shadow breaks the boundless blaze,
  Earth from her lap perennial verdure pours,
  Ambrosial fruits, and amaranthine flowers."

A little way before us rose a smooth and gentle acclivity, crowned by a clump of majestic trees,
which promised to afford a deeper and more grateful shade than any other spot in sight, and
we accordingly made towards it.  On a nearer approach it proved to be more elevated than had
at first appeared, and in order to reach the top, we were obliged to scale a long series of
natural terraces, almost as regular as though they had been the work of art.  From this spot
there was a fine view of the shore, the lagoon, and the ocean, to the north and west.  The
trees that covered the level space at the summit of the ascent, were varieties of a much larger
growth than those generally found on the low alluvial strip of land bordering the lagoon. 
Conspicuous among them, were the majestic candle-nut, with its white leaves and orange-coloured
blossoms; the inocarpus, a kind of tropical chestnut; and most magnificent and imposing of
all, a stately tree, resembling the magnolia in its foliage and manner of growth, and thickly
covered with large white flowers, edged with a delicate pink.  The ground was level as a parlour
floor, and free from brushwood or undergrowth of any kind, except a few long-leaved, fragrant
ferns, and in places a thick carpet of flowering vines and creepers.  The trees were stationed
at such distances apart, as to compose a fine open grove, and yet close enough to unite in
one rich mass of foliage overhead, impenetrable to the rays of the sun, and creating a sombre
and almost gloomy shade, even during the fiercest glare of noonday.  In one spot, a number
of gigantic trees were grouped nearly in a circle.  Their dense tops formed a leafy dome, through
which not the smallest patch of sky was visible.  Around their huge, but shapely, stems, which
one might look upon as forming the pillars of a natural temple, a number of flowering parasites
twined in luxuriant wreaths, and hung in festoons from the tower branches.  A considerable
space around the boles of some of these trees was completely covered by an elegant species
of creeping plant with fine cut foliage of a delicate pea-green, and large clusters of scarlet
blossoms, about which, swarms of brilliantly-coloured insects, of the butterfly tribe, were
hovering.

"Here we may actually, and not figuratively, indulge in the luxury of `reposing on the beds
of flowers,'" said Max, throwing himself down at the foot of a towering candle-nut, amid a
soft mass of this vegetable carpeting.  All were sufficiently tired by the long march of the
morning, to appreciate the luxury, and our entire company was soon stretched upon the ground,
in attitudes in which comfort rather than grace, was consulted.

"What do you think of this, Johnny?" said Max, "it strikes me, as being quite romantic and
like the story-books--almost up to the Arabian Nights.  If the history of our adventures should
ever be written, (and why shouldn't it be?) here's material for a flowery passage.  Just see
how this would sound, for instance:--`And now our little band of toil-worn castaways,' (that's
us), `weary and faint with their wanderings through the desert, (that's Cape Desolation, or
Sea-bird's Point, or whatever Johnny in his wisdom shall conclude to call it), arrived at a
little oasis, (this is it), a green spot in the wilderness, blooming like the bowers of Paradise,
where stretched at ease, upon beds of bright and odoriferous flowers, they reposed from the
fatigues of their journey.'  There, that sentence, I flatter myself is equal in harmony and
effect, to the opening one in the history of Rasselas, Prince of Abyssinia--there's my idea
of the style in which our adventures should be recorded."

As we had taken no refreshment since setting out in the morning, we now began to feel the need
of it.  At the edge of the eminence, on the southern side, grew several large cocoa-nut trees,
fully three feet in diameter at the base, and rising to the height of seventy or eighty feet
at the very least.  Eiulo was the only one of our number, who would have dreamed of undertaking
to climb either of them; he, however, after finding a young purau, and providing himself with
a strip of the bark, fastened the ends about his ankles, and then firmly clasping the trunk
of one of the trees with his hands and feet alternately, the latter being as wide apart as
the ligature would permit, he vaulted rapidly and easily upward, and soon gained the dizzy
height where the nuts grew. Once fairly perched in the tuft of the tree among the stems of
the enormous leaves, where he looked scarcely larger than a monkey, he quickly supplied us
with as many cocoa-nuts as we could put to present use.  Loading ourselves with the fruit,
we returned to our first resting-place, and after piling the nuts in a heap, reclined around
it, after the manner of the ancients at their banquets, while we enjoyed our repast.  Though
all these nuts were gathered from the same tree, and, in fact, from the same cluster, some
of them contained nothing but liquid, the kernel not having yet begun to form, and in these
the milk was most abundant and delicious: in others, a soft, jelly-like, transparent pulp,
delicate and well-flavoured, had commenced forming on the inner shell: in others, again, this
pulp had become thicker and firmer, and more like the kernel of the imported nut, the milk
having diminished in quantity, and lost in a great measure its agreeable taste.

Johnny, after having tried all the different varieties with the zeal of an epicure, declared
that he was beginning to get sick of cocoa-nuts: he wondered whether we should have to live
entirely on cocoa-nuts and shell-fish, and whether there was not some bread-fruit on the island.

"If there is," said Browne, "it will be of no use to us, unless we can find means to make a
fire, and cook it."

"Make a fire!" cried Johnny, "that's easy enough--all we've got to do, is just to get two dry
sticks and rub them together briskly for a few minutes.  None of the shipwrecked people I ever
read of, had any trouble about that."

"How lucky we are," cried Max, gravely, "in having some one with us, who has read all about
all the desert islanders that have ever lived, and can tell us just what to do in an emergency!
Please get a couple of those dry sticks which you speak of, Johnny, and show us how unfortunate
castaways in our condition, are accustomed to kindle a fire."

Without seeming, in the simplicity of his heart, to suspect for a moment the perfect good faith
and sincerity of Max's compliment, Johnny commenced casting about for some sticks or pieces
of wood, with which to make the experiment.  He soon found a fallen branch of the inocarpus,
well baked by the sun, and which had long lost every particle of moisture.  Breaking it into
two pieces, he began to rub them together with great zeal, and apparently with perfect faith
in the result: gradually he increased his exertions, manifesting a commendable perseverance,
until the bark began to fly, and the perspiration to stream down his face; but still there
was no fire, nor any sign of it.

Meantime, Max encouraged him to proceed.

"Keep it a-going, Johnny!" he cried, "if you stop for half a second, you lose all your labour;
only persevere, and you're sure to succeed; none of the shipwrecked people you ever read of
had any trouble about it, you know."

But Johnny concluded that the sticks could not be of the right kind, and notwithstanding Max's
exhortations, he at last gave up the attempt.

Morton, however, not discouraged by this unfortunate result, nor by Max's disposition to make
fun of the experiment expressed a belief that the thing could be done, and after preparing
the sticks by cutting away one of the rounded sides of each, he went to work with an earnestness
and deliberation, that caused us to augur favourably of his success. After nearly ten minutes
powerful and incessant friction, the sticks began to smoke, and Johnny, tossing his cap into
the air, gave an exulting "Hurrah!"

But his rejoicing proved premature, for, though the wood fairly smoked, that was the utmost
that could be attained, and Morton was obliged to desist, without having produced a flame.

Eiulo had been watching these proceedings with great interest; and he now intimated by signs
that he would make a trial.  Taking the sticks, he cut one of them to a point, with Arthur's
knife, and made a small groove along the flat surface of the other, which he then placed with
one end upon the ground, and the other against his breast, the grooved side being upwards.
Placing the point of the first stick in the groove, he commenced moving it up and down along
the second, pressing them hard together.  The motion was at first slow and regular, but increased
constantly in rapidity.  By-and-bye the wood began to smoke again, and then Eiulo continued
the operation with greater vigour than ever.  At length a fine dust, which had collected at
the lower extremity of the groove, actually took fire; Arthur quickly inserted the edge of
a sun-dried cocoa-nut leaf in the tiny flame, and it was instantly in a blaze.

"Bravo!" shouted Max, "that's what I consider a decided triumph of heathenism over civilisation,
and the story-books."

Morton now seized the sticks again, and imitating Eiulo's method of proceeding, succeeded in
kindling them, though it took him a considerable time to do it: thus it was satisfactorily
established, by actual experiment, that we could obtain a fire whenever we should want one.

The question was now raised, whether we should continue our exploration further that day, or
remain where we were until the following morning; and as the heat was still very oppressive,
and we were sufficiently tired already, the latter course was unanimously determined upon.

Johnny liked the spot which we occupied so well, that he proposed "building a hut" upon it,
and making it our head-quarters, as long as we should have to stay on the island.  It was certainly
a pleasant site; and, commanding as it did a wide view of the ocean, vessels could be descried
at a greater distance, and signalled with a surer prospect of attracting notice, than from
any other locality yet known to us.  From the wooded summit, the land descended on every side--towards
the shore in a series of terraces--towards the interior in one smooth and continuous slope,
after which it again rose in a succession of densely wooded eminences, irregular and picturesque
in their outlines, and each higher than the last as you proceeded inland; the farthest of them
towering up in strong relief against the south-eastern sky.  The various shades of the masses
of different kinds of foliage, with which these heights were clothed, from that of the pale-leaved
candle-nut, to the sombre green of the bread-fruit groves, contributed greatly to the pleasing
effect of the landscape.  On the right, as you looked towards the ocean, lay the flat tract,
occupied by the sea-fowl, and which Johnny had named after them.  At nearly an equal distance
on the left, the line of the beach was broken, by what appeared to be a small grove, or clump
of trees, detached from the main forest, and planted directly on the line of the shore.

As we had concluded to suspend our explorations until the next day, every one was left to his
own resources for the remainder of the afternoon.  Johnny having set Morton at work, to make
him a bow, "to shoot birds with," began to occupy himself in the very important task of finding
an appropriate name for the height, which he finally concluded to call "Castle-Hill," from
its regular shape and bold steep outlines. Max extended himself on his back in the coolest
nook he could find, and spreading his handkerchief over his face, to protect it from the gaudy,
but troublesome, winged insects which haunted the spot, forbade any one to disturb him on pain
of his high displeasure.  Arthur, taking Eiulo with him, proceeded upon a botanising tour about
the neighbourhood, in the hope of making some discovery that might prove useful to us.  For
my own part, happening to think of the question which had been started in the morning, as to
the day of the week, I began to make a retrospect of all that had taken place since the fearful
night of the mutiny, and to endeavour to fix the order of subsequent events, so as to arrive
at the number of days we had been at sea, and upon the island.  In the course of these calculations,
and while Browne and myself were discussing the matter, he suggested the want of pencil and
paper.  I found that the last leaf had been torn from my pocket-book, and the rest were in
an equally destitute condition.  In this strait, I remembered having heard Arthur describe
the manner in which the native children had been taught to write in the missionary schools
at Eimeo, the only materials used being plantain leaves and a pointed stick.  I mentioned this
to Browne, and we forthwith proceeded to experiment with different kinds of leaves, until at
last we found a large heart-shaped one, which answered our purpose admirably; it was white,
and soft as velvet on the under side, and marks made upon it with the rounded point of a small
stick, were perfectly distinct, showing of a dark green colour upon a white ground.

Late in the afternoon, Arthur and Eiulo returned from their tour of examination, having made,
as Arthur intimated, some discoveries, of which, in due time, we should all reap the benefit.
Morton having found a tough and elastic kind of wood, had shaped a tolerable bow for Johnny,
when it came to providing a string, the resources of both failed.  The difficulty being made
known to Eiulo, he volunteered to supply what was wanted, and went with Johnny and Morton into
the adjoining forest to look for a certain kind of bark, from which to make the required cord.

"There!" said Arthur, when we were left alone together; "how capitally this excursion has worked.
How differently things seem from what they did yesterday, when we were at the islet, perfectly
stagnant and stupid. One would not take us for the same people.  Only let us always have something
to do, something to interest and busy ourselves about, and we need not be very miserable, even
on a desert island."

CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

CAMPING OUT.

A DESPERATE ENGAGEMENT--JOHNNY DISCOVERS AN "OYSTER TREE"--VAGRANTS, OR KINGS?--A SLEEPING
PRESCRIPTION.

  "Travellers ne'er did lie,
  Though fools at home condemn them: If in Naples,
  I should report this now, would they believe me?"

About sunset we went down to the beach to bathe.  The trees along the shore were occupied by
immense crowds of exemplary sea-fowl, whose regular and primitive habits of life had sent them
to roost at this early hour.  Notwithstanding their webbed feet, they managed to perch securely
among the branches, many of which were so heavily freighted, that they bent almost to the ground
beneath their load.

Finding a spot where the beach shelved off gradually into deep water, with a smooth, firm bottom,
free from shells and corallines, we had a refreshing swim.  Afterwards, strolling along the
shore by myself, I found a large fish, beautifully marked with alternate black and yellow bands,
in a shallow, fenced off from the lagoon at low water, by a coral ridge.  The too eager pursuit
of some of the smaller tribe of fishes, had probably beguiled him into this trap, where he
had been left by the tide, to fall a victim, as I confidently reckoned, to his own rapacity.
All escape into deep water seemed to be pretty effectually cut off and I looked upon him as
already the captive of my bow and spear; but fearing lest some of the others should come up
to share the glory of securing so splendid a prize, I forthwith set about effecting his actual
capture. Rolling my trowsers above my knees, I waded into the water to drive him ashore; but
I soon found that my task was not going to prove by any means as easy as I had anticipated.
My intended victim was exceedingly vigorous and active, and as ferocious as a pike.  He obstinately
refused to be driven at all, and struggled and floundered as desperately as if he already had
a vivid presentiment of the frying-pan, snapping viciously at my fingers whenever I undertook
to lay hold of him.  To add to the aggravating features of the case, he seemed to bristle all
over with an inordinate and unreasonable quantity of sharp-pointed fins and spines, which must
have been designed by nature as weapons of defence, since there were certainly more of them
than any fish could use to advantage for swimming purposes.  I began to suspect that I had
caught a Tartar; but I had now gone too far to back out with credit: my self-respect wouldn't
admit of the thought.  So, taking a short breathing spell, I again advanced to the attack,
somewhat encouraged by perceiving that my scaly antagonist seemed exhausted and distressed
by his recent exertions.  His mouth was wide open, and his gills quivered; but I was rather
uncertain whether to regard this as a hostile demonstration, or a sign of pain and fatigue.
However, at it we went; and, after getting my hands badly cut by some of the aforesaid bristling
spines and fins, besides being drenched with water, and plastered all over with wet sand, which
he splashed about in the struggle, I succeeded in seizing him firmly by the tail, and throwing
him high and dry upon the beach.  I then scooped out a hollow in the sand, a little above the
tide-mark, and filling it with water, pushed him into it, thus securing him for the present.

Max, Morton, and Browne, who had been practising climbing cocoa-nut trees, at the edge of the
wood, with very indifferent success, had witnessed, from a distance, the latter part of the
"engagement," as Max facetiously called it; and they now came up to learn the particulars,
and to inquire "whether it was a shark, or a young whale, that I had been having such a terrible
time with."  While they were admiring my captive, and jocosely condoling with me on the hard
usage which I had received, the voice of Johnny, (who, accompanied by Eiulo, had ventured to
stroll off in the direction of the point), was heard, raised to its highest pitch, as he shouted
for us to "come and see something strange." But it seemed that his impatience would not permit
him to await the result of his summons, for the next moment he came running towards us in a
state of great excitement, and all out of breath, crying out that he had "found a tree covered
with oysters," and he had no doubt, there were "lots more of them."

"A tree covered with what?" inquired Browne, dubiously.

"With oysters--with fine, large oysters!" cried Johnny, "just come and see for yourselves."

"Wonderful island! productive soil!" exclaimed Max, in mock admiration. "If oysters will take
root, and grow here, I suppose pretty much any thing will: I believe I will plant my boots
to-morrow: they may do for seed, and are good for nothing else any longer--don't you begin
to think this must be an enchanted island, Johnny?"

"O, you may make fun of it, if you please; but it's true: and if you'll come with me, I'll
shew you the trees."

"Well," said Browne, "I am ready for almost any thing in the way of the marvellous, since having
seen a solid and substantial-looking island turn into a vapour, and vanish away before my very
eyes.  I shall be careful about doubting any thing, until I get back to some Christian country,
where things go on regularly.  For the present, I am in state of mind to believe in phoenixes
and unicorns--and why not in oyster-trees?  Who knows but we have happened upon a second Prospero's
isle?  Lead on, Johnny, and bring us to this wonderful tree."  And Johnny started off accordingly,
followed by Browne and Morton.

In a moment the latter was heard calling out, "I say, Max! do you understand conchology?"

"Yes, enough to tell a bivalve when I see one: should like to have a `dozen fried' before me now."

"If a `dozen raw' will answer, just step this way, and we'll accommodate you equal to Florence."

On hastening to the spot, all scepticism as to the "oysters growing on trees," was speedily
removed.  A row of mangroves lined the shore for some distance, each elevated upon its white
pile of protruding and intertwisted roots.  Attached to the branches of these trees, which
overhung the water and drooped into it at high tide, were abundance of fair-sized oysters.
Looking down into the water beneath the mangroves, I perceived the certain indications of an
extensive and well-stocked oyster-bed.  The bottom was thickly covered with them, in every
stage of growth multitudes being scarcely larger than a sixpence.  I could also see, through
the shallow water, an immense number of little white specks, like drops of spermaceti, scattered
about among them.  It was evident, that here was an abundant and unfailing supply of these
delicious shell-fish.

Browne broke off from one of the trees a large branch, having half a dozen oysters attached
to it, with which he hastened to confront the unbelieving Max, and flourishing it in his face,
demanded to know if he was "convinced now."  Although constrained to admit that they looked
very like oysters, Max seemed to consider the evidence of more than one of the senses necessary
to afford satisfactory proof of so extraordinary a phenomenon, and accordingly proceeded to
see how they tasted.

After opening one of the largest, (using his cutlass as an oyster-knife), and making the experiment
with due deliberation, he announced himself perfectly satisfied.

By the time we had all sufficiently tasted the quality of the oysters, (which were really very
good, and well-flavoured, notwithstanding the unusual position in which they were discovered),
it had become quite dark.  Though the evening was fine, there was not much light, the moon
and stars glimmering faintly through a soft purple haze, which, as I had observed since we
had been on the island, generally seemed to fill the atmosphere for a short time after sunset,
and at a little later hour entirely disappeared.  As we strolled back towards the foot of "Castle-Hill,"
Johnny suddenly looked up, and inquired, as if the thought had just occurred to him, where
we were going to sleep.

"That's a pretty question to ask," said Browne, laughing, "it implies that we are common vagrants."

"So we are, strictly speaking," answered Max, "we have no regular means of living, and no fixed
place of abode, and that I believe, makes us common vagrants, according to Webster."

"I should think our means of living were `regular' enough to rescue us from the definition,"
replied Morton, "having been thus far, cocoa-nuts and mussels every day, and all day long,
and nothing but cocoa-nuts and mussels.  I am glad that there is now some prospect of a little
more irregularity in future."

"As to our having no fixed habitation or place of abode," said Browne, "that does not arise
from poverty, or lack of land--`the isle is all before us where to choose'--and we are now
on a tour of observation through our extensive domains, in order to decide upon the finest
spot for our head-quarters.  Meantime, for a night or two, we shall have to be satisfied with
`a tent in the green wood, a home in the grove,' in other words, we shall have to `camp out,'
as the most renowned hunters and soldiers have frequently done before us.  I'm sure there's
no vagrancy in that."

"Why," cried Johnny, forgetting for the moment his anxiety on the score of our quarters for
the night, "we are no more vagrants than Robinson Crusoe was:--

  "`We are monarchs of all we survey,
  And our realm there is none to dispute,'

"As he says of himself so that we are much more like kings than vagrants."

"And the sea-birds and fishes," said Max, "are to be considered as our subjects, I presume,
since we have no man Friday, and no goats or poll-parrots to reign over."

"Yes," said Johnny, "I suppose so; there are enough of them too."

"And some very disloyal, rebellious, and stiff-necked ones among them," added Max, "who ought
to be dealt with as traitors forthwith--that sturdy feathered rebel for instance, who, not
regarding the inviolability of the royal person, no longer ago than this morning laid one of
our royal majesties sprawling upon his royal back."

"And that other scaly traitor," added Browne, "who perversely refused to come out of the water
to be cooked, in accordance with the royal will, and who nearly bit off the sacred thumb of
one of our majesties, in resisting the royal authority."

"Well, Johnny," said Max, "if we are not actually kings, we at any rate have some royal blood
upon the island.  Not to speak of myself, who am descended direct from `Kaiser Maximilien,'
here is Eiulo, who is a real prince, his father being King of the Cannibal Islands, or some
other islands in these seas."

"I wish you wouldn't speak so of Eiulo's father," said Johnny, warmly, "he is not a cannibal,
and I believe he is a very good man; I think his islands are near here, and if we should one
day get there, he would treat us kindly, and let us go home whenever we should have an opportunity."

"Hilloa!" cried Max, "what has put all that into your head?  What do you know about Eiulo's
father, or his islands, or where they are?"

This sudden outburst of Johnny's surprised us all, with perhaps the exception of Arthur, and
we listened with some interest, as he replied to Max's volley of questions.

"Oh, I have talked with Eiulo about it," he answered, "mostly by signs; and he has made me
understand that he believes his home is not far distant--off in that direction, (pointing north),
and that ships sometimes stop there; and so I have been thinking that if we could only find
the way there, we should have some prospect of getting home at last."

Upon this we became silent and thoughtful; nothing further was said, until Johnny recurred
to the question which he had started a few moments before, and again asked where we proposed
to pass the night.

"Not in those gloomy woods, I hope," said he, "where it is so lonely, and the wind and the
trees make such strange noises.  I would rather sleep down here upon the shore; this nice dry,
white sand, up where the water never comes, will make a very good bed."

Thus far, we had passed every night upon the islet, to which we had now become familiarised
and accustomed.  Its small extent, and separation from the mainland, gave it an air of security,
which made us feel more at our ease there at night, than we could among the sombre and unexplored
forests of the larger island, about which we as yet knew so little.  Johnny's timidity was
not therefore unnatural.  Indeed, unless I am mistaken, none of us was, on this first night
of our exploration, entirely free from a vague spirit of insecurity, and of liability to some
unknown danger.

"That will hardly do, Johnny," said Browne, in answer to his suggestion about taking up our
quarters for the night upon the shore, "a heap of dry pandanus leaves will make a much more
comfortable bed than the hard sand.

This demonstration seemed to produce the desired effect and Johnny soon became reassured, and
quite reconciled to "camping out" in the woods.

The evening was so fine, and the gentle breeze setting in from the ocean was so cool and grateful,
after the excessive heat of the day, that we continued for some time loitering along the shore.
The sea was highly phosphorescent; that is, during the earlier part of the evening, and before
the mist or haze before spoken of cleared up.  The tiny wavelets, as they rippled upon the
beach in rapid succession, sparkled with phosphoric fire, and out in the lagoon, wherever a
coral patch rose to the surface, or the water was disturbed by any floating object, it gave
forth a clear and brilliant light, and was studded by myriads of fiery dots and spangles.

At length Johnny began to complain of weariness, and we scaled the terraced hill, and gathering
a large quantity of clean and well-dried leaves, arranged our beds as Browne had suggested,
beneath the group of noble trees where we had taken our siesta at noon.

The novelty of our situation, long proved with me an effectual antidote to fatigue and drowsiness,
and I lay, looking up at the moon glimmering through the foliage of the trees, an hour after
the rest seemed to be asleep.

Just as I was at last sinking into unconsciousness, Johnny, sitting up among the leaves in
which he was half buried, inquired softly, "Max, are you awake!"  I spoke to him, to let him
know that he was not alone.  "I can't get asleep," said he, "every thing looks so beautiful
and so strange.  It seems to me I never saw the moon and the stars so big and so bright."

"You must keep your eyes shut, and not look at the moon, if you want to get asleep."

"But the trees keep rustling so; just as if they were whispering softly to one another; and
then the sound of the waves on the reef is so sad and mournful, that it sets me to thinking
all sorts of strange things. I wonder whether there are any wild animals on the island!"  I
assured him that it was quite improbable, and that no dangerous animals of any kind were ever
found on the islands of the Pacific.  This, however, did not seem to satisfy him entirely,
and I began to suspect that his mind was running on the jackalls, tiger-cats, and hyenas of
the Swiss Family Robinson.  A question or two which he presently asked, showed that I had guessed
correctly, and I hastened to meet the difficulty, by reminding him that "their island, (if
indeed it was an island at all, and not a part of the mainland), was situated near the coast
of New Holland, from which animals might pass over to it by swimming."

"Why, I thought," said Johnny, "that there were no wild animals in New Holland, except kangaroos
and opossums: my book of beasts, birds, and fishes, says so."

This was a fact in Natural History which I was not prepared to gainsay; especially when backed
by so redoubtable an authority as "the book of beasts, birds, and fishes."  For a moment I
was taken all aback; but being loathe to give up my little companion a prey to imaginary jackalls,
tiger-cats, and hyenas, I rallied again, resolved upon one more desperate effort for his deliverance.

"Well," said I, "the fact is, we don't know exactly where the Swiss Family Robinson's island
really was--it is altogether uncertain.  It may have been near Java, or Ceylon, or the coast
of India, in which case, all those Asiatic beasts could easily have got there--that is, if
the two places were close enough together.  Now we know that we are somewhere in the middle
of the Pacific, a vast distance from any continent, or any of the great Indian islands, so
that large animals here are out of the question, unless they have taken a swim of a thousand
miles or so."

This seemed to be pretty decisive; and I think it settled the jackalls, tiger-cats, and hyenas,
effectually, for Johnny said no more on the subject, except to remark, that, even if they could
swim that distance, they would stand a bad chance with the sharks and other sea-monsters; to
which I added, as a final clincher, that in any event they would be sure to starve on the voyage,
unless they should bring a large supply of provisions along.  "Well," said he, after a minute's
silence, "I'm not afraid of anything; but somehow or other I feel very wide awake to-night,
and not in the least sleepy."

"Shut your eyes," said I, "and think of a great wheel, whirling round and round, with a regular
and even motion, and never stopping, until you have counted it go round a hundred times."

Johnny laughed softly to himself, as though pleased with this device, and was quite still for
a minute or two; then he spoke again.

"It has gone round a hundred times, but towards the end it got a-going dreadfully fast; it
would go fast in spite of all I could do."

"Never mind the wheel, then," said I, "but think of the huge lazy swells in a calm, rising
and falling, rising and falling, as they did when we lay rocking in the boat, all those long
days and nights, out on the sea."

"Well, I'll try--but I don't believe it will be of any use."

"Don't look at the moon, and don't speak to me again--unless for something very particular--and
now good night."

"Good night!" and he nestled down among his leaves again.  In a very few minutes the deep and
regular breathing of the little patient, proved the efficacy of my sleeping prescription, and
announced that his troubles for that night were over.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

DOMESTIC EMBARRASSMENTS.

A DESERT ISLAND BREAKFAST--PERSUASIVE REASONING--ROMANCE AND REALITY-- THE PRINCE AND PRINCESS.

The next morning "the Islanders," or some of them, at least, were stirring early; and the first
thing that attracted my attention, on opening my eyes, was a busy group, consisting of Max,
Eiulo, and Johnny, gathered round a fire at a little distance, and engaged in some apparently
very interesting operation.  A savoury smell at the same time saluted my olfactory organs,
and on approaching the scene of action, to investigate the matter more closely, I found my
finny prize of the preceding evening undergoing a somewhat primitive style of cookery, of which
Max appeared to be the chief director and superintendent.  A number of large oysters were also
roasting in the embers; and from these last proceeded the grateful and appetising odour referred
to.

"Good morning!" cried Max; "you see we have breakfast nearly ready; and a breakfast, too, that
will be a positive luxury, after so long a course of cocoa-nut diet; how Browne will exult
at the sight of it; how his eyes will open--to say nothing of his mouth!  And don't we deserve
a vote of thanks for our early labours for the general good?"

Morton and Browne at this moment emerged from their respective heaps of leaves, and, after
rather more than the usual amount of yawning and stretching of limbs, came towards the fire.

"Fee, faw, fo, fum!" cried Morton, snuffing the agreeable smell of the cookery in progress,
"I trust we're not too late for breakfast, and that there is something more than the savour
of good victuals left."

"You are in good time," said Johnny, bustling about the fire with an air of official dignity,
"the first bell hasn't rung yet."

"But why has Shakespeare such a long face?" said Max; "has camping out caused a reminiscence
of rheumatism!"

"Bravo!" cried Max, applauding furiously, "I like to see that; it's what I call coming out
strong under discouraging circumstances.  Here are we, six forlorn castaways, on a desert island,
somewhere, (no one knows where), in the Pacific Ocean; and, instead of moping, and sulking,
and bemoaning our hard fate, we wake up of a fine morning, quite bright and cheerful, and one
of the six, (or seven, more correctly speaking), goes to work spouting Shakespeare, carrying
us back to old times, and making us feel, (as Morton would say), like `happy schoolboys again.'"

"What's all this?" cried Arthur, coming forward with a puzzled air, "what is Max making a speech
about? has he taken the stump as a candidate for the presidency of the island?"

"He needn't do that," said Browne, "we're not going to have any presidents, or other republican
trumpery here; I have formally taken possession of the island in the name of Victoria; and
it is therefore a colony of Great Britain; I shall apply, at the first convenient opportunity,
for letters patent, making me colonial governor."

"Tory, monarchist!" cried Max, "recant at once, or you sha'n't taste a mouthful of my breakfast."

"Do you think I'll sell my loyalty for a mess of pottage!  No, I'm for a well-regulated monarchy:
hurrah for Victoria!"

"Down with the Britisher!" cried Johnny, entering into the spirit of the scene, and tugging
at Browne's coat-tails; "make him hurrah for the stars and stripes, or else don't give him
any of our oysters!"

"You're surely not going back to the principles of the dark ages--you won't attack the right
of private judgement, and persecute for opinion's sake."

"The right of private judgment, indeed!" answered Max, with great contempt.  "I hold that no
person can have a right, on any pretence whatever, to entertain erroneous opinions on important
subjects, affecting the welfare of mankind.  If a man does entertain such opinions, it is the
duty of those who know better to convince him of the error by the most effectual arguments
at their command.  It is, therefore, my duty to open your eyes to the blessings of liberal
institutions.  I have here, (pointing towards the incipient breakfast), the most powerful means
to assist and quicken your perception of the truth.  Shall I not use those means?"

"The line of argument which you indicate is exceedingly forcible, (how delightfully those oysters
smell!)  I really think I begin to perceive some of the advantages of republicanism already."

"With the right of private judgment, properly understood," resumed Max, "I should be reluctant
to interfere.  You will, I presume, enjoy the exercise of so precious a privilege, even with
a cocoa-nut breakfast, which you can probably obtain, by requesting Prince Eiulo to scale one
of yonder tufted trees."

"How clear the matter becomes with a little reflection," observed Browne "(this camping out
in the open air gives one a famous appetite).  In fact your reasoning is almost irresistible,
(that fish looks particularly nice), and really I begin to think I can safely profess myself
a good republican--until after breakfast at any rate."

Max's culinary operations being at last completed, Johnny placed a huge shell to his lips,
and sounded a long blast by way of announcement that breakfast was ready.  The fish was served
up in a fresh palm-leaf, and Johnny declared with much complacency, that not all the crockery-stores
in New York, could furnish a platter of such royal dimensions.  The leaves of the hibiscus,
served admirably for plates; for knives and forks, we used the strong stalks, or central fibres,
of cocoa-nut leaflet; which, with fingers in reserve for an emergency, answered at least as
well as the chopsticks of the Chinese.  Upon the whole, it cannot be denied that our table-service,
simple as it was, has its advantages: it involved no necessity for any washing of dishes, no
anxiety on the score of broken crockery, and we could indulge in the extravagance of a new
dinner set every day, or even at every meal, for that matter, if so disposed.

The fish proved most excellent, resembling the striped bass in flavour and appearance: as to
the oysters, they were unanimously voted equal to Shrewsburys.

"Ah!" sighed Max, "if we had now but a cup of coffee and a hot roll, those inestimable blessings
of civilisation, we could almost forget that we are on a desert island."

"Wait until the bread-fruit ripens," said Arthur, "and we shall have a tolerably fair substitute
for your `hot rolls.'  Eiulo will show us the most approved mode of preparing it, and we shall
find it nearly equal to the wheaten loaf."

"All that Max seems to think about, is the eating," said Browne, swallowing the last remaining
oyster, "but I begin to feel troubled about another matter: see, I am getting fairly out at
the elbows, and neither `coffee and rolls,' nor roast-beef and plum-pudding in indefinite quantities,
would afford me any satisfaction, compared to the possession of a supply of clothing, or even
a few changes of linen--in fact, comrades, what are we to do?  There is danger that we shall
all become savages: I begin to feel a loss of self-respect already."

"We shall have to go into the manufacturing business, I suppose," said Arthur.  "I have often
watched the whole process of making tappa, or native cloth, from the bark of the paper-mulberry;
it is quite simple, and I have no doubt we can succeed in it; I have talked with Eiulo on the
subject and find that he understands the process thoroughly."

"But are there any paper-mulberries on the island!" inquired Morton.

"I have not seen any," answered Arthur.  "If there are none, the bark of the bread-fruit tree
will answer nearly as well: the cloth made from it is as strong and durable, though not so fine."

"For the present, and before we go into home manufactures," said Max, "I advise Shakespeare,
in order to avoid the loss of his remaining self-respect in consequence of wearing foul linen,
to betake himself to the beach, wash his garments, and take a bath until they dry in the sun,
which is the course I intend to pursue myself."

"And what are we going to do for shoes, I wonder!" said Johnny, "mine are badly cracked and
torn, and nearly worn out: we shall all have to go barefoot!" and he looked aghast at the thought.

"We must kill a shark by-and-bye," said Arthur, "when we have nothing more pressing to do;
and we can make leggins, or moccasins, from the skin."

"How these things kill the romance and poetry of desert island life!" said Max, "there's no
romance about being out at the elbows, or being obliged to wear dirty linen--"

"Or in doing one's own washing in salt-water, and sitting naked while one's clothes are drying,"
interposed Browne, pathetically.

"Or in having your toes poke out at the end of your boots," added Morton, advancing his right
foot in illustration.

"No! these are all stern realities," said Max, "cases not provided for in the story-books;
how is it, Johnny, are there any precedents going to show how desert islanders do their washing
and mending?"

"I think they generally saved heaps of clothes from the wreck," answered Johnny, gravely. 
"Robinson Crusoe brought off several chests, containing ever so many sailors' clothes of all
sorts; whether there were any shoes or not, I don't remember: the Swiss family Robinson also
obtained an abundance of such things from the wreck of their ship before it sunk; Philip Quarll
made garments for himself from the skins of animals."

"But what are we to do? we havn't any wreck from which to supply ourselves with chests of clothing,
with arms and ammunition, and stores of ship-biscuit and salt provisions.  We're worse off
it seems, than any of our predecessors.  And since we are not supplied with the requisite capital
and stock-in-trade for desert islanders, it is reasonable to infer that we are not destined
to a Robinson Crusoe life, so that we may confidently expect to be taken off by some ship,
in a short time."

As we were finishing our breakfast, a couple of tiny, fairy-like tern, came flying round us.
They were very tame, and hovered smoothly over our heads, at the distance of sometimes but
a few feet.  Their plumage was snowy-white, and as they glided quietly around, peering curiously
into our faces, you could almost fancy that there was the gleam of intelligence in their large
eyes.

"O, what beautiful little birds!" cried Johnny, in great delight: "I wish I had some crumbs
of bread for them."

"Who knows, Johnny," suggested Max, "but these strange little birds, as they seem to be, are
no birds, after all, but an unfortunate prince and princess, who having incurred the resentment
of some potent enchanter, have been transformed by his magical arts into their present shape,
and banished to this desert island; and have now come to us for sympathy and assistance--see
what a mournful expression there is in their mild dark eyes!"  Johnny was pleased with the
conceit, and the little tern were always afterwards known as the prince and princess.  They
frequently came hovering around us in the most friendly and fearless manner, when we were in
that part of the island.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

THE PROGRESS OF DISCOVERY.

A VOICE IN THE WOODS--VIVE NAPOLEON!--CALCULATING THE LONGITUDE--THE "WILD FRENCHMAN'S" HAT.

  Stephano.  Hark! what sound is that?
  Caliban.  Art thou afeard, master?
  Stephano.  No, monster, not I.
  Caliban.  Be not afeard: the isle is full of noises.

Our failure to discover fresh water, or any indications of it, during yesterday's expedition,
increased the anxiety which we felt on the subject and we determined to devote the day to a
continuation of the search.

The base of Castle-Hill was skirted on the left and divided from the neighbouring forest by
a deep gully, that had much the appearance of a dried-up water-course, and was probably a channel
by which, in the rainy season, the water from the higher ground was conveyed to the sea.  From
the hill we could trace the course of the ravine, until it struck the beach, near the point
where the small grove, before spoken of, seemed to spring up out of the lagoon.  Our last evening's
ramble along the shore had extended nearly to this spot and to avoid going over the same ground
a second time, we struck into the ravine, and followed its course as it descended towards the
beach.

Johnny every now and then, without any apparent object, unless to evince his entire superiority
to any feeling of timidity, separated himself from the rest and disappeared for a time in the
forest, generally returning with a specimen of some new plant or flower, or an account of some
strange bird, or curious tree, which he had seen.  From one of these adventurous excursions,
he came rushing back; closely followed by Eiulo, both looking a good deal frightened, and,
as soon as he had recovered breath sufficiently to be able to speak, he earnestly affirmed
that he had heard a man call out to him in the wood.  His statement was strange enough; he
had found a twining plant, with a flower like a morning glory, and called loudly for Eiulo,
who was a little way off, to come and see if it was the patara vine.  The root of this plant
is a valuable and nutritious esculent, and Arthur had described the leaf and flower to us,
in order that we might recognise it if met with. Immediately a harsh voice issued from a neighbouring
thicket, uttering some words which he did not distinctly understand, but they were in French,
and were something about Napoleon.

"In French!--and about Napoleon!" cried Arthur, in amazement.  "Are you quite sure, Johnny,
that you heard any words at all;--any thing more than a strange noise of some kind?"

But Johnny was positive;--he had heard the "Napoleon," as plainly as he ever heard any thing.
There were only a few words--not more than two or three, but they were spoken very distinctly,
and quite loud, as if the person were cheering; he could not be mistaken.

"Only two or three words," pursued Arthur, "would you know them again if you should hear them
repeated?"

"Yes, I think I should."

"Was it `Vive Napoleon!' that you heard?"

"Those are the very words!" cried Johnny; "they were spoken as plainly as you speak them, but
in a rougher voice."

"Did you see any thing--did you look towards the thicket!"

"I saw something stir, but could not tell what it was.  The voice was harsh and angry, and
I was frightened, and ran away as fast as I could. I thought perhaps it was a wild man--some
one who had been shipwrecked here many years ago, and lived alone in the woods until he had
grown wild or mad."

Johnny was so positive in this singular story, that for a moment we hardly knew what to think
of it.  Eiulo too had heard the voice--the same harsh voice that Johnny described as issuing
from the thicket.  But the notion of any person amusing himself by shouting "Vive Napoleon!"
in the forests of a solitary island in the Pacific, seemed so preposterous, that we could not
help coming to the conclusion, that some sudden noise in the wood had seemed to Johnny's excited
imagination like a human voice--though why he should fancy that it uttered those particular
words--the words of a strange language, was a puzzle which we could not solve.  We, however,
turned into the forest, and Johnny pointed out the spot where he was standing when he heard
the voice.  There were the vines, with flowers like morning-glories; and there was the thicket
whence, as he alleged, the sound had proceeded.  We shouted aloud several times, but there
was no response, except from a large bird that rose heavily into the air, uttering a discordant
scream; and we were satisfied that it was this, or some similar sound, that had startled Johnny;
in which conviction we dismissed the matter from our minds.

The flowering vine proved to be the patara, which Arthur had been so anxious to discover, and
on digging it up, two roots, resembling large potatoes, were found attached to the stalk. 
Quite a number of these plants were scattered about the neighbourhood; enough, as Arthur said,
to make a tolerable potato patch.

All this time Max was missing, having been some little distance in advance of the rest, when
Johnny had raised his strange alarm.  When we got back into the ravine, he was not in sight,
but we had hardly resumed our progress towards the shore, when we heard him calling out that
he had found water.  At this announcement, our orderly march broke at once into a hasty scramble.
Browne alone maintained his dignity, and came on at his usual elephantine pace, probably suspecting
that the pretended discovery was a hoax.  Morton and I raced along the hollow, "neck and neck,"
till we suddenly reached a point where there was an abrupt descent to the level of the shore.
We were under too much headway to be able to stop, and jumping together down the steep bank,
we narrowly missed alighting upon Max, as he lay extended on the ground, scooping up water
with his hand, from the basin of a small pool.  I came down close beside him, while Morton,
sprang fairly over his head, and alighted with a great splash in the centre of the pool.  I
had barely time to roll out of the way, when the others, with the exception of Browne, came
tumbling in their turn over the bank, which took them as much by surprise as it had us.  Morton's
lamentable figure, as he stood motionless in the midst of the pool, drenched with water, and
with a great patch of black mud plastered over one eye, together with Max's look of consternation
at his own narrow escape, were irresistibly ludicrous, and provoked a laugh, in which, after
a moment, they both heartily joined.

"Very obliging of you, Morton," said Max, recovering his self-possession, "I wanted to see
how deep it was, and you are a good enough measuring-stick; just stand still a minute, if you
please."

"You have reason to feel obliged to me," answered Morton, extricating himself from the mud,
"it was on your account solely that I got into this pickle.  I had to choose between breaking
your neck, as you lay right in my way, or jumping into this hole, and not having much time
to deliberate, it isn't surprising if I came to a foolish conclusion."

"It would be less unfeeling," replied Max, "as well as more strictly according to the facts
of the case, to say a hasty conclusion, which might be understood literally, and would then
be literally correct."

The water, which we found to be good, though slightly brackish, was contained in a narrow pit
situated in the centre of a circular hollow, or basin.  It was not more than half full, but
its sides showed a fresh and distinct water-mark, more than a foot above the present level.
At the edge of the basin, a solitary palm shot upward its straight shaft, to the height of
nearly a hundred feet; the long, fringed leaves drooping from the top, like a bunch of gigantic
ostrich plumes, and overshadowing the well.  It seemed difficult to account for this supply
of fresh water in so unpromising a spot, and so near the sea-shore.  I was at first inclined
to think it nothing more than a reservoir of standing water, left by the last rains, which
had filled not only the pit, but also the surrounding basin.  The former being deep and narrow,
evaporation would be very gradual, which might, I supposed, account for the small quantity
still remaining.

"That can hardly be," said Arthur, when I suggested this explanation, "the spot is wholly unsheltered
from the sun, except at noon, by this screen of palm-leaves, and if the entire hollow were
filled with water this morning, there would not be a drop of moisture left in three days, unless
the supply were renewed.  Besides, the water is too fresh and sweet to have stood since the
last rains."

"I should judge," said Morton, "that this spot is but little above the level of the lagoon,
and if the bottom of the well here, is below that level at ebb tide, this supply of fresh water
can be easily accounted for."

"The rise and fall of the tide here, does not seem to be more than eighteen inches, or two
feet," said Max, "and as to the depth of the pit or well, as you call it, you ought to be able
to speak with confidence, having so recently been to the bottom of it."

"There are wells on the low islands of the West Indies," said Morton, "which communicate with
the sea, and rise and fall with the tide, the sea-water penetrating through the sand, and being
distilled in its passage: and I think this is one of the same kind.  Here is a recent water-mark,
more than a foot above the present level.  If I am right, we shall find that the tide is now low."

Arthur thrust a stick into the side of the well to mark the height of the water, while Johnny
rushed furiously down to the beach, and in a moment came posting back with the announcement
that the tide was low.

"Very well, so far," said Arthur, "it only remains to be seen, whether, when the tide has risen,
there will be any corresponding rise here."

"And, meantime," suggested Browne, "let us refresh ourselves with a bath, before the sun gets
higher; and we can also take the opportunity to give our under garments the benefit of an ablution,
as Max has proposed."

No one can fully appreciate the luxury of sea-bathing who has not enjoyed it within the tropics.

The calm, transparent water, with the firm white beach and bottom, looked so deliciously cool
and inviting, that the suggestion was adopted as soon as made; and the expedition with which
the preliminaries were got through with, reminded me of those eager races to "the pond," on
the letting out of the village school at home, of a hot summer afternoon, in which several
of our present company had often been competitors for the honour of being "the first one in."
Arthur warned us to beware of sharks, and to keep a vigilant look-out for "back fins," and
our dread of those prowling and rapacious monsters, was a great drawback to the enjoyment of
our bath.  In all the feats and dexterities of the swimmer's art, Eiulo far outdid the rest
of us, moving through the water with the ease, rapidity, and gracefulness of a fish.  After
one or two trials with him, in swimming under water, and diving for shells, even Max yielded
the palm, declaring that he was ready to match himself against any land animal, but should
for the future decline entering into a contest of that kind with amphibious creatures.

Eiulo thought that this swimming in smooth water was but indifferent sport and began to talk
to Arthur with great animation, in his native tongue, about the pleasures of "faahee," or surf-bathing,
and the exquisite fun of dodging the "manos," or sharks, among the rollers. Presently he struck
out into the lagoon, and before we could guess his intention, he swam over to the reef, and,
picking his way across it, plunged fearlessly among the breakers on the outside.  He stayed,
however, but a short time, and came back saying, that the "manos" were altogether too thick
out there, and that a huge blue one, had come near seizing him in the surf, before he could
catch a roller so as to land safely upon the reef.  When blamed by Arthur for his rashness,
he laughed, and promised that he would not incur the risk again.  From his frightened looks
when he got back, I guessed that he had not found "dodging the mano" such exquisite fun as
he had anticipated.

Max presently desisted from swimming, in order, as he said, to "do his washing," consoling
himself for the hardship of being obliged to do laundress' work, with the reflection that the
necessity for such a task would soon cease, as our clothes being in constant use, without the
benefit of a change, could not last long.  Browne and I followed this example, and having spread
our garments in the sun to dry, resumed our aquatic sports in the meantime.  Arthur dressed
himself and accompanied by Eiulo, left us, saying that he would rejoin us in an hour at the
hill.  The two proceeded a short distance along the shore to the right, and then turned into
the forest to search, as we supposed, for plants, or roots, capable of being turned to useful
account.

By the time our clothes were sufficiently dry to be put on, the tide had risen considerably,
and on repairing to the well, we found the water several inches above Arthur's mark, thus confirming
Morton's theory in regard to it.  Though we should have been better pleased to have discovered
a spring, yet there was no reason to doubt that here was an ample and permanent supply of fresh
water.

As it was now getting towards noon, and the day was excessively hot, we returned to Castle-Hill,
to enjoy the grateful shade of its cool, dark groves, and the breeze which was sure to play
about its summit, if air was stirring any where.  Max sought out a leafy bower of ferns and
creepers, near the foot of the great candle-nut tree, where he stretched himself out and went
to sleep.  Johnny got his bow and arrows, and began to practise archery, by shooting at the
large and gaudy insects hovering around the blossoms of the vines, and when, probably by accident,
he carried away the wing of one of them at the distance of some six or seven yards, he boasted
loudly of the exploit, and intimated that in case of a brush with any cannibals, his bow might
be relied on to do some execution.  Getting tired at length of his crusade against the butterflies,
he expressed a wish to try his skill upon some larger game, but as nothing in the shape of
a jackall or tiger-cat was obliging enough to make its appearance, he put aside his weapons
with a sigh, and lying down near Max, was soon asleep.  There was a drowsy influence in the
profound quiet, and subdued light of the spot, to which I should soon have yielded but for
Browne, who began to talk of Scottish scenes and legends, with sufficient interest to keep
Morton and myself awake. It seemed strange enough, to lie there in that tropical forest, listening
to an enthusiastic description of the rugged sublimity of the Trossachs, the romantic beauty
of Loch Vennacher, Loch Katrine, and Loch Achray, or the lovely vale of Kelso, bosomed in green
woods, with its placid streams, smooth lawns, and hazel-fringed dells.

About noon, Arthur and Eiulo made their appearance, emerging from the grove to the south-east
of the hill, laden with roots, plants, strips of bark, etcetera.  They had been looking for
the auti, or paper-mulberry, but without success.  Arthur had discovered a large and beautiful
species of sweet-scented fern, with a tuberous root shaped like a sweet-potato, which he said
was baked and eaten by the Society Islanders: he brought with him several entire specimens,
root and all. The leaves were fragrant and elegantly shaped, and the roots were of a mottled
brown and yellow.  Eiulo carried in his hand an unripe bread-fruit--a splendid pea-green globe,
nearly as big as his head. They had discovered a noble grove of this most valuable tree, at
no great distance from the hill, but the fruit was not yet perfectly ripe. Johnny, who had
awaked at the return of the absentees, was greatly delighted at these discoveries, and began
to lament that he had not accompanied Arthur.  He inquired very particularly as to the direction
of the bread-fruit grove, as if cherishing the design of setting out at once to visit it; but
Browne letting some thing drop about the voice in the woods, Johnny changed the subject, and
saying that it must be nearly dinner-time, proposed to make a fire, and bake the fern roots,
so as to test their quality.  Upon hearing this, Max, whose slumbers had also been disturbed,
raised his head for a moment and exclaimed so vehemently against the very mention of a fire,
when we were already dissolving with heat, that nothing further was said about it.

"And now," said Arthur, after having given a full account of his discoveries, and answered
all Johnny's questions, "I believe it is just noon, and while I think of it, I will try to
ascertain our longitude."

"Ascertain our longitude!" exclaimed Browne, "pray, how do you propose to do that without instruments?"

"I know the longitude of the Kingsmill islands," answered Arthur, "and if I can find our distance
east or west of them, of course, I have the longitude of this island."

"But there's the difficulty; how can you ascertain even whether we are to the east, or to the
west of them?"

"In the first place, then, I have Kingsmill island time; my watch was last set, one day while
we were there, just after Mr Frazer had taken an observation."

"Do you mean to say," inquired I with some interest, "that you have regularly wound up your
watch every day since then, without once forgetting or neglecting it during all that has since
occurred?"

"I did regularly, every night before sleeping; and during all the time that we were at sea
in the boat, hardly a day passed that I did not note down some memoranda in my pocket-book."

"That now, is positively diabolical!" exclaimed Max, from his covert among the creepers, where
he was completely invisible, except his heels, which were kicking in the air; "I wouldn't have
believed, Arthur, that you were such a methodical, cold-blooded creature!  I suppose now, that
if I had tumbled overboard during that hideous time, and been gulped down by a shark, or if
Shakespeare had starved to death, you would have made a regular memorandum of the event, in
business-like style, and wound up your watch as usual.  I think I see the entry in your pocket-book,
thus: `1839, June 3rd--Mem.  Max Adeler fell overboard this day, and was devoured by a shark--an
amiable and interesting youth, though too much given to levity, and not prepared, I fear, for
so unexpected a summons.  June 5th--Mem.  My worthy and estimable friend, John Browne, late
of Glasgow, Scotland, died this day, from lack of necessary food.  Threw him overboard.  What
startling monitions of the uncertainty of life!'"

"Peace, Kaiser Maximilien, peace!" cried Browne, "and let the Professor proceed to fix our
longitude."

"The first thing," resumed Arthur, "is to plant a straight stick upright in the ground; when
it casts no shadow east or west it is twelve o'clock here.  My watch will then show what time
it is at the Kingsmills: if it shows an earlier hour there, we must be east of them; if a later
hour, then we are west of them."

"I think I understand that," said Johnny; "the next thing is to tell how far east or west we are."

"That is quite easy.  There are, you know, three hundred and sixty degrees of longitude: the
sun passes through them all--that is, round the globe in twenty-four hours.  Then, of course,
in one hour, it passes through fifteen degrees, and through one degree in four minutes; so
that for every four minutes' difference of time, there will be a difference of longitude of
one degree--that is, near the equator, about seventy miles."

"It must be very near noon now," said Johnny, running out into a patch of sunshine, where a
small opening in the grove let in the light, "see! I have hardly any shadow at all."

Arthur planted a stick in the ground, and as soon as the shadow marked the hour of noon, looked
at his watch, by which it was eighteen minutes after twelve.

"It would seem from this," said he, "that we are four degrees and a half, or over three hundred
miles, west of the Kingsmills: it also appears that we are very near the line, but a little
south of it, for the shadow inclines a little southward."

"It is all nonsense," cried Max, sitting up in the grass, "to pretend to ascertain where we
are, in any such way as this.  If your watch, (which you know is a miserable time-keeper),
has lost or gained but twenty minutes since we left the Kingsmills, which is now nearly two
months, then what becomes of your learned calculations about the difference of time, and of
the longitude, and all that?"

Arthur laughed, and admitted that this grave impeachment of the character of his chronometer,
was not entirely without foundation, and that in consequence, the strict accuracy of the results
arrived at, could not be relied on.

"The only thing that we can be at all certain about in regard to our position," said Max, "is,
that we are south of the line."

"How can that be?" inquired Browne, "the Pole-star is visible from here, or, at any rate, we
saw it on the second or third night we were at sea in the boat."

"A part of the Great Bear can be seen," answered Arthur, "but not the north star, I think.
I looked for it last night, and though I could see all the stars of the Dipper, the pointers
were near the horizon, and the Pole-star below it.  But even if visible, it would be no evidence
that we are north of the equator, for I believe it can be seen from the fourth or fifth degree
of south latitude."

"See now," said Browne, "what a pretty neighbourhood you are getting us into, with your wise
calculations!  If we are south of the line, and far west of the Kingsmills, we must be somewhere
near the Bidera Sea, and the Mendana Archipelago, about which the young sailor Roby, who was
always boasting of having sailed with the famous Captain Morell, used to tell us such wonderful
stories."

"It is good ground," replied Arthur, "for one who wants to exercise a traveller's privilege,
and recount marvels and prodigies, without fear of contradiction.  Those seas are full of large
islands, with countless numbers of smaller ones, and remain to this day almost unexplored.
In fact, little more is now ascertained in regard to them, than was known two hundred and fifty
years ago, soon after their discovery by the Spanish navigator Mendana; so that a man who pretends,
as Roby does, to have gone over the ground himself, may tell pretty much what stories he pleases,
without danger of any one being able to convict him of inaccuracy."

"What!" exclaimed Johnny, opening his eyes to their utmost extent, "do you suppose we are near
those islands Jack Roby tells about, where the natives chew betel and lime out of a carbo-gourd,
and sacrifice men to their idols, and tear out and devour the hearts of their enemies?"

"And where King Rogerogee lived," added Max, "(you remember him Johnny), the giant seven feet
and a half high, who wore a paradise plume on his head, and a girdle of the claws and beaks
of birds around his waist? Why, this may be the very island of Podee over which he reigned,
and we ought not to be greatly surprised to see him look in upon us at any moment, with his
paradise plume waving among the tops of the trees, and his spear, eighteen feet long, in his hand."

"Don't let Rogerogee disturb your dreams, Johnny," said Arthur, "if there is any such place
as the island of Podee, which I very much doubt, it is, according to Roby's own account, but
a few leagues to the east of Papua, and some twelve or thirteen hundred miles at least, west
of us."

Max now got up, and after stretching himself, and giving three or four great yawns, came towards
the spot where the rest of us were sitting; but after taking a few steps, he suddenly stopped,
uttering an exclamation of surprise, and looking down at something in the grass at his feet.
He then kicked a dark object out of a tall bunch of fern, towards us.  It was an old beaver
hat crushed flat, and covered with mildew and dirt.  Robinson Crusoe was not more startled
by the footprint in the sand, than were we at the sight of this unequivocal trace of civilised
man.  Arthur picked it up, and restoring it partially to its proper shape, examined the inside.
On the lining of the crown appeared in gilt letters--

PIERRE BAUDIN,

CHAPELIER,

RUE RICHELIEU, NUMERO 20.

A PARIS.

"Here, then," said Max, "is an end of the notion that we are the first inhabitants of this
island; it is clear that others have been, if they are not now upon it.  Perhaps, Johnny, this
is the hat of the man you heard talking French in the woods this morning."

"At any rate," said, Arthur, after a moment of thoughtful silence, "this must be the place
where the Frenchman who perished in the water-spout and his companions, were cast away, and
from which they afterwards reached Eiulo's island in a small boat.  The well yonder is probably
their work, and we may perhaps find other evidences of their stay here, when we come to explore
the island more thoroughly."

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

ABOUT TEWA.

A DULL CHAPTER, BUT NECESSARY--WAKATTA AND ATOLLO--A GENTLE HINT--MAX AS AN ARCHITECT.

  "In the forest hollow roaring,
  Hark!  I hear a deepening sound,
  Clouds rise thick with heavy lowering,
  See! the horizon blackens round."

It must not be inferred from the occasional bursts of holiday humour, in which we indulged,
that we had become reconciled to our exile, and were now ready to subside into a state of indolent
contentment satisfied with security from present danger, and the abundant means of subsistence
which we had discovered.

Not even a tropical paradise, with its warm, glowing sky and balmy atmosphere, its "ambrosial
fruits and amaranthine flowers," could charm us into oblivion of home, and those who made it
dear; or diminish the bitterness of the thought of being cut off for ever from human intercourse,
and of having all our plans of life deranged and frustrated.  Though we did not brood continually
over our unfortunate situation, we were far from being insensible to it.  The loveliest island
that ever reposed in undiscovered beauty, upon the bosom of the "blue summer ocean," though
rich in all things necessary to supply every material want, must still have seemed to us but
as a gilded and luxurious prison, from which we should never cease to sigh for an escape.

Arthur's conclusion, mentioned at the end of the last chapter, seemed in itself so probable,
and was confirmed by so many circumstances, that it was readily adopted by us all; and believing
that the party, of whose presence at one time upon the island the hat was an evidence, had
left it years ago, the occurrence no longer appeared to possess any importance, and we dismissed
it altogether from our thoughts.

Eiulo, when questioned on the subject of the white men living among his own people, repeated
substantially his former statement, that they came from an island lying south of his father's,
and distant from it less than a day's sail.  It seemed, also, that before the arrival of the
whites, an island lying in the direction from which they had come, had been known to some,
at least, of the natives, and visited by them.  In the course of the conversations which he
had with Arthur, at various times, about his father's people and their affairs, Eiulo had often
spoken of an old warrior, Wakatta by name, famous for his courage and great personal strength,
of which he related many remarkable instances. Through two generations he had been the most
devoted and valued friend of the family of his chief; and upon his wisdom, sagacity, and prowess,
Eiulo's father and grandfather had relied in many an emergency, and seldom in vain.  Formerly,
the three islands were independent of each other, and were ruled by separate chiefs, who sometimes
engaged in sanguinary wars among themselves, in most of which Wakatta had played a prominent part.

A great many moons ago, as Eiulo expressed it, the chiefs of the two smaller islands had united
their forces against his grandfather, who was then chief of Tewa, the third and largest.  To
this enterprise they had been incited by Atollo, an uncle of Eiulo, and younger brother of
the present chief, his father.  This man was possessed of great ability, and his reputation
as a warrior was second only to that of Wakatta, who was many years his senior, so that among
those of his own age he was considered without an equal.  But, though eminent for talent and
courage, he seemed to be entirely destitute of principle or feeling; and impelled, as was supposed,
by a spirit of unscrupulous ambition, (for no other motive could be assigned), this unnatural
son plotted against the lives of his own father and elder brother.  His designs being discovered,
and fully exposed, he fled to one of the neighbouring islands, and sought the protection of
its chief, his father's most formidable and inveterate enemy.  Afterwards, by his address and
energy, he succeeded in bringing about a league between the chiefs of the two smaller islands,
for the purpose of an attack against Tewa, by their combined forces.  The enterprise was planned
with the greatest secrecy, and executed with equal skill and daring.  At midnight, the allies
set sail, in a fleet of war canoes, and two hours before dawn they had disembarked at Tewa,
marched to the principal village, where the chief resided, and made all their dispositions
for the attack, which was so totally unexpected, that it was crowned with complete success.
Scarcely any resistance was made: the principal Tewan warriors were slain in their beds, or
taken prisoners; and Eiulo's father and grandfather, with Wakatta, only saved their lives by
fleeing to the mountains.  Knowing that the strictest search would be made for them, and that
if taken, instant death would be their doom; they stole forth from their lurking-place by night,
repaired to the beach, and taking a large canoe, which they discovered there, set sail in her,
steering boldly southward, in search of a considerable island which was believed to lie in
that direction.  Soon after sunrise they came in sight of land, but, on approaching it, they
found that the surf was bursting with great fury upon a barrier reef, stretching between them
and the shore; and it was not until they had coasted along it for many hours, that they succeeded
in effecting a landing.  Eiulo had heard both his father and Wakatta speak of the island as
a singularly beautiful spot, nearly as large as Tewa, and abounding in bread-fruit and cocoa-nut
trees.  Here the fugitives remained for several months, until, becoming wearied of their solitary
life, and possessed by an irresistible longing to revisit their homes, they came to the determination
to venture back, and learn the state of things there, at every hazard.  They accordingly set
sail one day at noon, in order that they might reach their destination under cover of night,
in which they succeeded.

Seeking a temporary place of concealment in the woods, they seized favourable opportunities
to discover themselves to some friends, on whom they could rely.  They learned that the victorious
allies had been guilty of the most intolerable cruelty towards the people of Tewa.  Many of
the prisoners had been slain, as sacrifices to the gods, and many more had been made slaves.
Atollo had established himself as chief at the conquered island, and had gathered about him
a band of the most ferocious and desperate men, who practised every species of cruelty and
oppression upon the inhabitants.  The latter, driven to the utmost verge of endurance, were
now ready to incur any risk in an attempt to deliver themselves from a yoke so galling.  They
needed only a leader, and the experience and prowess of Wakatta, together with the presence
of their ancient and rightful chief and his son, inspired them with confidence and courage.
Gathering a small, but resolute, band of warriors, they awaited the favourable moment to strike
a decisive blow; and then, emulating the secrecy and suddenness of Atollo's recent enterprise,
they sallied forth at night, from their rendezvous in the forest and fell upon him and his
adherents.  Wakatta was unable to restrain the ferocity of his followers, excited by the insults
and injuries they had suffered, and they killed on the spot all who fell into their hands,
pausing to make no prisoners.  Atollo, after fighting like a tiger, though almost alone, succeeded
in making his escape with a few of his attendants.  The victors promptly carried the war into
the neighbouring islands, both of which were completely subdued, and afterwards remained under
the sway of Eiulo's grandfather until his death, when the present chief succeeded. Atollo,
after resisting as long as there remained the slightest prospect of success, had sought refuge
among the recesses of the mountains, where he still lurked with a few outlaw followers, as
desperate as himself. His father had forbidden any search for him, or any efforts for his capture
to be made; and such was the dread inspired by his desperate courage, ferocity, and cunning,
and such the superstitious terror with which he was generally regarded, that few felt any inclination
to transgress this command, or to meddle in any way with him or his followers; and he was consequently
left unmolested in his favourite haunts, among the wild and almost inaccessible precipices
of the interior.  In seasons of scarcity, his father had even caused supplies of food to be
placed where they would be likely to fall in his way. Eiulo always shuddered when he spoke
of this man.  Once, when accompanied by a young playmate and an attendant, he had strayed a
long way into the wood in search of wild-flowers, and had, without being aware of it, approached
the region frequented by the outlaws, a spear had suddenly been hurled at him from an adjacent
thicket, with so deadly a purpose, that it whistled past within a few inches of his side. 
As they fled in alarm, and were clambering hastily down a steep descent, a mass of rock was
disengaged from the verge of an overhanging precipice, and came near crushing them all.  Looking
back, in their flight, they saw a wild figure, which the attendant recognised at once as that
of Eiulo's uncle, stooping at the edge of the cliff, in the act of loosening another large
stone.  Notwithstanding this murderous attempt, the present chief of Tewa continued to pursue
the same forbearing course which his father had adopted, and Atollo was still permitted to
remain unmolested among his mountain fastnesses.

Eiulo, even before the discovery of the hat, had believed that we were upon the same island
which his father had visited, as above related, and from which the whites had afterwards come.
He was confident that by sailing northward, with a fair wind, we should reach Tewa in less
than a day.  Though generally cheerful, and overflowing with boyish spirits, there were times
when it was apparent that he pined for his home; and, though he never directly urged it, he
earnestly wished to have us make the attempt to reach his father's island in the yawl.

At length I began to suspect, from the constant and minute inquiries which Arthur made in relation
to Tewa, and its people, their usages, habits, etcetera, that he was thinking seriously of
some such attempt. He directed his inquiries particularly to the point whether the island was
ever visited by ships.  Eiulo remembered hearing his father speak of big canoes, without any
outriggers, and whose masts were as high as a cocoa-nut-tree, having passed in sight of the
island.  He had heard, too, that a long while ago, one of these great vessels had got aground,
upon a reef between Tewa and the adjacent island, and that the natives had gone off to her
in their canoes, and some of them had ventured on board at the invitation of the strangers.
Old Wakatta was one of these, and he had received a wonderful present from the white chief,
which he had often exhibited to Eiulo, and which, from his description of it, appeared to be
neither more nor less than a small looking-glass.  The great canoe had, by throwing overboard
a part of her cargo, got off from the reef at the rising of the tide, and resumed her voyage.
It was pretty evident that the arrival of a European vessel at the islands, was an event of
very rare occurrence, and in all probability the result of mere accident.  Except that he steadily
pursued inquiries of this kind, Arthur said nothing to show that he entertained the thought
of such an undertaking as I suspected him to be revolving.  Browne and Morton both had exaggerated
notions of the cruelty and treachery of the "heathen native;" as the former called them, and
would, I had no doubt, be strongly averse to any step calculated to place us in their power,
unless it should also, in some way, increase our prospects of ultimately getting home.

For several days after the occurrences narrated in the last chapter, we remained at Castle-hill,
making little excursions daily in various directions.  Having now discovered a supply of fresh
water, and abundant means of subsistence, it seemed as though there was at present nothing
further for us to do, except to assist Arthur, as far as we could; in his preparations for
manufacturing tappa.  The weather was so genial, (except during the middle of the day, when
the heat was frequently intolerable), that we felt no want of any other shelter than such as
the grove afforded us.  Generally, towards evening, a refreshing breeze set in from the sea,
and lasted several hours.  We experienced no bad effects from sleeping in the open air, and
far from finding it a hardship, we soon came to consider it every way more pleasant, than to
be cribbed and cabined within four close walls.  There was something delightful, in dropping
off into dreamland, listening to the whispering of the leaves above you, and catching glimpses
through them, of a sky so deliciously blue, and stars so wonderfully bright.  It seemed as
though in this favoured spot, the fable of a perpetual summer was to be realised, and the whole
circle of the year was to be crowned with the same freshness and verdure and beauty, the same
profusion of fruits and flowers, which we had thus far enjoyed.  But such expectations, if
any of us were beguiled into entertaining them, were destined to be rudely dissipated.  One
hot afternoon, we were startled from a drowsy siesta in the grove, by a peal of thunder, such
as is rarely heard in temperate climates, and on springing up and looking about us, we beheld
above and around us, certain indications, which it would have been far more interesting and
agreeable to contemplate from beneath the shelter of a snug and comfortable dwelling.  The
wind moaned through the bending tree-tops; the face of the heavens was black as night, and
the waters of the lagoon, and of the ocean, had darkened to a steely blue beneath their frown.
Before we had fairly shaken off our drowsiness, another abrupt peal of thunder burst overhead,
with a suddenness that seemed to jar the very clouds and shake the water out of them, for the
rain began all at once to come down violently, in big drops, that rattled like hailstones upon
the crisp leaves of the forest.  The thunder appeared to have completed its office in giving
the signal for the clouds to discharge their contents, and we heard it no more.  For a time,
the dense foliage of the large tree under which we gathered, completely sheltered us; but soon
the moisture began to drip slowly from the lower leaves, and occasionally fell in sudden showers,
as the branches were shaken by the wind.

At length, the ground became thoroughly saturated, shallow puddles formed in every little hollow
or depression, and there was the prospect of a most miserable night if the storm should continue.
Happily, this did not prove to be the case; in about an hour after we had been aroused by the
first thunder peal, the clouds dispersed almost as suddenly as they had gathered; the sun shone
forth brightly; the trees and the grass sparkled with raindrops, lustrous as diamonds, and
the whole landscape smiled in fresher beauty than ever.

This little occurrence, however, served as a seasonable hint to recall to our minds the importance
of contriving some kind of a dwelling to afford us shelter in bad weather, and we resolved
to lose no time in setting about it.  Accordingly, the day following that of the thunder shower,
as soon as we had returned from the beach, after taking our regular morning swim, Arthur called
a council, to deliberate and determine upon the matter of house-building.  The first thing
was to fix upon a site; the only objection to the level space at the top of the hill, was its
elevated position, exposing it to the full force of the violent winds which prevail at certain
periods of the tropical year. But on that side from which the strongest winds blow, the spot
was protected by still higher land towards the interior, and the fine trees of various kinds
and sizes, (some of them evidently the growth of many years), among which could be seen no
prostrate trunks, showed, as we thought, that nothing was to be feared from that source.

We, therefore, selected a smooth, open space, near the edge of the terrace, commanding a view
of the sea, through a vista of noble trees. Max insisted, that, inasmuch as with our limited
architectural resources we could not make our house of more than one storey, we ought to build
in "cottage style," and make up for deficiency in height, by spreading over a large surface.
He then proceeded to mark out a ground-plan, upon a scale that would have been shockingly extravagant,
had we been in a part of the world where the price of building-lots was to be taken into consideration.
A parallelogram, nearly forty feet long by twenty-five in width, the narrower side fronting
the sea, was the plan of the main building.  This was to be flanked by two wings, each some
sixteen feet square, which would serve to strengthen and support the principal structure. 
"Upon this model," Max complacently observed, "he intended one of these days to build his country-seat,
near Mount Merino, on the Hudson: meantime, we were welcome to the benefit of the idea."

"Really, we're greatly obliged to you, Max," said Browne, "for helping us so generously through
with the most difficult part of the business. All that we now want in order to finish it at
once, is merely a few loads of joist, plank, pine-boards, shingles, and window-sash; a supply
of nails, a set of carpenter's tools, and a couple of carpenters to use them."

"Of course," rejoined Max, "we shall want a supply of building materials, tools, etcetera,
and I am expecting them along daily.  We have now been here several weeks, and it is quite
time, in the natural and regular course of things, and according to the uniform experience
of people situated as we are, for a ship heavily laden, (say in our case), with lumber and
hardware, to be driven upon our shores in the midst of a terrible storm, (yesterday, when it
began to thunder, I thought it was at hand).  The ship will come driving upon the reef--the
crew will take to the boats, but no boat can live in such a sea, and notwithstanding our humane
and daring efforts to assist them, all perish among the breakers--that is to say, all except
the carpenter--whom I rescue, by plunging into the raging flood and dragging him ashore by
the hair, just as he is about sinking for the third time."

"Nobly done!" said Browne, "but couldn't you at the same time manage to save a drowning washerwoman?
she would be as great an acquisition as the carpenter, in my mind."

"At length," resumed Max, "the storm abates--the sea becomes smooth--we go out in the yawl
to the stranded vessel, where she lies upon a coral patch, and bring off, in two boat loads,
the carpenter's chest, a keg of gunpowder, a blunderbuss, seven muskets, fourteen pairs of
pistols, and a bag of doubloons, (think of that, Johnny!)  That very night the wind rises again:
the surf breaks the wreck to pieces, and washes the fragments ashore, and in the morning the
sea is strewn far and wide with floating spars, and bales, and barrels; and the reef is covered
for miles with `joist, plank, pine-boards, shingles, window-sash,' and whatever other trifling
conveniences are requisite for building my cottage.  This is what Johnny and I confidently
calculate upon."

"In the meantime," said Arthur, "in case by any unfortunate accident your ship should fail
to arrive in time to enable us to get the cottage up before the rains set in, I propose that
we commence a less ambitious structure."  He began to trace upon the ground with a pointed
stick, the oval outline of what he called a `Tihitian fare.'  "But even for my fare," he added,
"we shall need the means of cutting down a number of good-sized trees."

"Of which we are entirely destitute," said Max, with an air of triumph, "and I don't see but
that we shall have to wait for my ship after all."

"Not so," answered Arthur, "for I think that two or three of the cutlasses may be converted
into tolerable saws, with which, by dint of a little patience, we can get out as many posts
and rafters as will be requisite for the frame of our building, though I admit it will be tedious
work."

Johnny heaved a profound sigh at the prospect of the difficulties that lay in the way of his
pet project of house-building, and wished that "that old magician who built the castle with
a thousand windows for Aladdin, in a single night, would only be clever enough to lend us his
assistance."  But upon second thought, he concluded that there would be "no fun" in having
our house ready-made for us, and magnanimously declared that if he had the wonderful lamp in
his hands that minute, with full power to summon up the obedient genius, and set him to work,
he would not do it.

"I hope you would make him supply us with a few good axes, Johnny, at least," said Browne.

But Johnny was disposed to be very self-denying and high-minded; he did not think he ought
to do it; we should take a great deal more pleasure in our house if we made it ourselves, without
any magical assistance of any kind.

"Now, that you mention axes," said Morton, "it occurs to me that there is an old hatchet-head
among the rubbish in the locker of the yawl, and though it is a good deal battered and worn,
it could be fitted with a handle and made useful."

We all now remembered having seen it, though no one had before thought of it.  Arthur suggested
that we should make an excursion to Palm-Islet as soon as the heat of the day was over, and
the sea-breeze had set in, for the purpose of getting the hatchet, and bringing the boat round
to the side of the island where we intended to fix our residence, as we might have occasion
for its use.  "We can get there before dark," said he, "and pass the night once more at our
old quarters on the little island; then we can row back in the fresh of the morning, before
sunrise, and be ready to commence our building in earnest."

CHAPTER NINETEEN.

THE CORAL REEF.

JOHNNY AND THE CHAMA--AMATEUR PEARL-DIVING--A SHARK BLOCKADE--CULINARY GENIUS.

  "Down in the depths of the lonely sea,
  I work at my mystic masonry;
  I've crusted the plants of the deep with stone,
  And given them colouring not their own;
  And now o'er the ocean fields they spread
  Their fan-like branches of white and red:
  Oh! who can fashion a work like me,
  The mason of God, in the boundless sea."

Late in the afternoon, when the slanting beams of the sun began to lose their fierceness, and
the heat was tempered by the breeze setting in from the ocean, we descended to the beach, and
set out for the eastern side of the island, in accordance with Arthur's suggestion, mentioned
at the close of the last chapter.  As we made our way across Sea-bird's Point, the clamorous
cries of the gannets, raising their harsh voices to the highest pitch, in angry remonstrance
against this invasion of their domain, were almost deafening.  They might well be alarmed for
the safety of their nests--or rather of their eggs, which they lay upon the bare ground, without
any attempt at a nest--for they strewed the whole point so thickly that it was no easy matter
to pick one's way without treading upon them at every alternate step.  In nearly every tree
were to be seen the rude nests of the frigate-bird, built of a few coarse sticks; and numbers
of the birds themselves, with their singular blood-red pouches inflated to the utmost extent,
were flying in from the sea.  The large sooty tern, the graceful tropic bird, and the spruce,
fierce-looking man-of-war's hawk, with his crimson bill, and black flashing eye, flew familiarly
around us, frequently coming so near, that we could easily have knocked them down with our
cutlasses, had we been inclined to abuse, so wantonly, the confidence which they seemed to
repose in us.

When half-way across the point, I came suddenly upon a magnificent male tropic bird, sitting
in his nest behind a tussock of tall, reedy grass. He did not offer to quit his post, even
when the others approached very near, and paused to admire him; being apparently engaged, in
the absence of his mate, in attending to certain domestic duties, generally supposed to belong
more appropriately to her.  He was somewhat larger than a pigeon, and was a very beautiful
bird, though not so brilliantly coloured as several other species of sea-fowl.  His plumage,
soft and lustrous as satin, was of a delicate pearly grey, except the long middle-feathers
of the tail, which were of a pale red, and projected full a foot and a half beyond the rest.
He manifested not the slightest fear, even when Johnny stooped and stroked his glossy coat.
Just as we left the spot, the partner of this exemplary bird arrived, and hastened to relieve
him from duty, giving him notice to quit, by two or three quick, impatient chirps, and a playful
peck upon the head, whereupon he resigned his place, into which the other immediately settled,
with a soft, complacent, cooing note, as expressive of perfect content as the purring of a
well-fed tabby, stretched cosily upon the earth-rug before a cheerful winter evening fire.
This transfer was effected so quickly, that Johnny was baffled in an ill-bred attempt which
he made to pry into the domestic concerns of the affectionate pair, and he could not get even
a transient glimpse of the contents of the nest.

Without permitting ourselves to be tempted into any further deviation or delay, we kept steadily
along the beach, until we arrived, a little before sunset, at the spot where the yawl lay,
drawn up on the sand, opposite the islet.

Max declared that after our long march, we ought to have a supper consisting of something more
substantial than cocoa-nuts, and proposed that we should pull over to the reef, and procure
some shell-fish, which proposition meeting with general approval, we got the boat into the
water, and in five minutes reached the inside of the ledge, and landed upon it at a point about
a quarter of a mile from the opening, through which we had first entered the lagoon.  In this
place, it was some fifteen or twenty yards in width, and consisted of a seamed and broken flat
of dead coral, elevated but slightly above the level of the sea. Though there was no wind,
and had been none during the day, the mighty billows of the open ocean came rolling in upon
the outer edge of the reef with their accustomed violence.  The action of the trade-winds is
upon the whole so steady and uniform, that when it does cease for short periods, its effects
continue, and upon the windward side of these coral-belted islands, there are breakers that
never cease to rage, even in the calmest weather.  No sight could be more grand and imposing,
than that of these enormous waves encountering the reef.  One of them would sometimes extend
along it a mile, or a mile and a half, in an unbroken line.  As it sweeps onward, with a slow
and majestic movement towering up, like a dark-blue mountain, it seems as if nothing could
resist its power, and you almost tremble lest the solid barrier upon which you stand should
be hurled from its foundations.  It meets the curving line of the reef with a tremendous concussion,
and thus suddenly arrested by the parapet of coral, reared from the depths of the sea, it rises
at once, throughout its entire length, to the height of twelve or fifteen feet perpendicularly,
and stands for a moment as if congealed in its progress; then breaking with a hollow roar,
it falls in a deluge of foam and spray, filling all the seams and crevices, and marking their
course in lines of white upon the dark ground of the ledge.  Not the least striking feature
of the spectacle, was the multitude of fishes, of all shapes, colours, and sizes, that could
be seen suspended in the face of this liquid wall, the very moment before it fell.  How they
escaped being thrown upon the reef seemed inexplicable, but they darted hither and thither
at the very edge of the roller, with the greatest apparent ease and security, and almost invariably
turned sea-ward just in time to save themselves.  Occasionally, however, some careless or unskilful
individual, not sufficiently versed in this perilous kind of navigation, suffered shipwreck,
and was left gasping and floundering upon the coral.

While thus engaged in watching the bursting of the waves upon the reef, I suddenly heard Johnny
at a little distance calling out lustily for help, and hastening to the spot, I found him in
one of the yawning crevices of the coral rock, up to his neck in water, and struggling violently
to get out, in which he seemed to meet with opposition from some object in the hole.

"Something has got me by the feet," he cried, as soon as he saw me; "it is an enormous oyster,
or a shell-fish of some kind, and it pinches dreadfully."

I looked down into the water, and saw what in fact, seemed to be a gigantic shell-fish, gripping
both his legs: it retained its hold so tenaciously, that I found I could not extricate him,
and when Arthur came up, as he did in a moment, it was as much as we could both do, to lift
him and his singular captor, which still clung obstinately to him, out of the crevice.  We
were then obliged to pry open the shells with our cutlasses before we could release him.

Arthur pronounced this extraordinary shell-fish, to be a specimen of the "Chama Gigas."  The
shells were nearly three feet in length, and curiously marked and clouded.  Johnny had slipped
from the slimy edge of the chasm, and happened to fall fairly into the expanded jaws of the
chama, which, had instantly closed upon him.  If the water had been deeper, the consequences
might have been serious, as there are instances of persons being drowned, by having their feet
caught in the vice-like grip of this formidable bivalve.

Not far from the scene of Johnny's mishap, was a green spot upon the reef, where a group of
young trees seemed to spring up out of the bare coral.  On approaching the place, we found
that a little island, about the size of Palm-islet was there in process of formation. Notwithstanding
the exposed and barren character of the locality, and the scantiness of the soil, which was
not anywhere a foot in depth.  It was covered with a thrifty vegetation, among which were several
well-grown-palms, a group of young casuarinas, and some ferns and tournefortias.  Nor was this
embryo islet destitute of inhabitants.  The trees were at this hour filled with aquatic birds,
and I observed among them one remarkable species, long-bodied, and slender, like swallows,
with red bills and feet, white breast, and slate-coloured wings; these, instead of perching,
like the rest of their feathered associates, upon the trees, nestled in the concavity of the
long palm-leaves, far enough from the stem, to be rocked gently by the undulating motion of
the leaf, which a breath of wind, or the slightest stirring of the birds in these swinging
nets was sufficient to produce.  But by far the most numerous and singular portion of the population
of the islet, consisted of a species of large land-crab, inhabiting burrows hollowed out beneath
the roots of the trees.  Great numbers of them appeared to be bathing or sporting in the shallow
water on the lagoon side of the islet, but, at sight of us, they scrambled off to their burrows
with a degree of agility that could hardly have been expected from such clumsy-looking creatures.
Owing partly to this unlooked-for rapidity of locomotion, and partly to a natural shyness and
hesitation which we felt about handling them rashly, (their pincer-like jaws, with half a dozen
pairs of which each individual seemed to be provided, having a rather formidable appearance),
they escaped before we could capture even a specimen.  Johnny forthwith posted himself in ambush
among a bunch of fern, and riveting his eyes upon one of the burrows at the foot of a young
cocoa-nut tree, waited impatiently for the crabs to venture forth once more.  In a few moments
a patriarchal-looking old fellow emerged cautiously from the hole, and was presently followed
by several more. Johnny prudently delayed any hostile movement, until they should get far enough
from their place of security to enable him to cut off their retreat; and, in the meantime,
I was greatly amused and interested in observing the ingenious method, in which the patriarch
commenced operating upon a cocoa-nut, which had fallen to the ground near his den.

Managing his complicated apparatus of claws with surprising dexterity, he seized the nut, and
stripped off the outer husk in a twinkling; then setting it upon one end, he began to hammer
away at the orifices through which the stalk and root of the future tree make their way when
the nut germinates.  Having at length removed the filling up of these orifices, he inserted
a claw, and actually split the strong inner shell, dividing it neatly into halves.  At this
stage of the proceedings, half a dozen greedy neighbours, who had been looking on, without
offering a helping claw, shuffled nimbly forward to share the spoil, and it was curious to
see how quickly they cleaned out the shell, leaving not a particle of the kernel.  Johnny seized
this as a favourable moment for a sally, and rushed forth cutlass in hand, having adopted the
discreet resolution of disabling them, by lopping off those formidable claws, before coming
to close quarters.  The sally, however, was premature, and proved entirely unsuccessful, for
the crabs backed and sidled into their burrows with such expedition, that the last of them
disappeared before their assailant could get within reach.  Leaving Johnny to renew his ambuscade,
if so disposed, I proceeded along the reef, and found Max and Browne bathing for the second
time that day.  They had discovered a charming place for the purpose, where a kind of oval
basin was formed by the lagoon setting into the inside of the reef.  The water was deep and
clear, so that there was no danger of wounding the feet by means of shells or corals.  Max
had discovered what he supposed to be an enormous pearl-oyster, attached to a wall of coral,
at the depth of five or six fathoms, and they were diving for it alternately.  Both succeeded
in reaching it, but it adhered so firmly to the rock by its strong beard, that neither of the
amateur pearl-divers could tear it off, and getting soon exhausted and out of breath, they
abandoned the attempt.

The submarine scenery of the lagoon was in this spot unusually varied and beautiful, and the
basin formed a bath, fit for the Nereids themselves.  Numbers of different kinds of shell-fish
were attached to the coral branches, or wedged into their interstices.  Others were feeding,
and reflected the brightest colours with every motion.  Purple mullet, variegated rock-fish,
and small ray-fish, were darting about near the bottom.  Another species of mullet, of a splendid
changeable blue and green, seemed to be feeding upon the little polyps protruding from the
coral tops.  Shells, sea-plants, coral, and fishes, and the slightest movement of the latter,
even to the vibration of a tiny fin! or the gentle opening of the gills in respiration, could
be seen with perfect distinctness in this transparent medium.  But what chiefly attracted attention,
was the gay tints, and curious shapes, of the innumerable zoophytes, or "flower animals," springing
up from the sides and bottom of the basin, and unfolding their living leaves above their limestone
trunks or stems which encased them.  Blue, red, pink, orange, purple, and green, were among
the colours, and the variety of patterns seemed absolutely endless: they mimicked, in their
manner of growth, the foliage of trees, the spreading antlers of the stag, globes, columns,
stars, feathery plumes, trailing vines, and all the wildest and most graceful forms of terrestrial
vegetation.  Nothing was wanting to complete this submarine shrubbery, even to the minutest
details; there were mosses, and ferns, and lichens, and spreading shrubs, and branching trees;
bunches of slender thread-like stems, swaying gently with the motion of the water, might, (except
for their pale, purplish, tint), pass for rushes, or tussocks of reedy grass; and it required
no effort of the imagination to see fancifully shaped wild-flowers in the numerous varieties
of actiniae, or sea anemones, many of which bore the closest resemblance to wood-pinks, asters,
and carnations.  The imitations of these flowers were in some cases wonderfully perfect, even
to their delicate petals, which were represented by the slender, fringe-like tentacles of the
living polyp, protruding from its cell.  Besides these counterparts of land vegetation, there
were waving sea-fans, solid masses of sponge-coral, clubs of Hercules, madrepores, like elegantly-formed
vases filled with flowers, dome-like groups of astraeae, studded with green and purple spangles,
and a thousand other shapes, so fantastic and peculiar, that they can be likened to no other
objects in nature.

Johnny having got tired of lying in wait for the crabs, came to watch the swimmers and search
for shells.  In the course of frequent beach excursions with Mr Frazer, he had picked up the
names, and chief distinguishing characteristics of the principal genera of marine shells, in
consequence of which he had at length come to regard himself as quite a conchologist, and was
ambitious of making a "collection," like other naturalists, in which design Arthur encouraged
and assisted him.

Joining me, where I was lying upon a flat ledge, peering down into the basin, he presently
espied a Triton's trumpet, more than a foot in length, in some five fathoms of water, and pointing
it out to Max, he begged him to dive for it, earnestly assuring him that he had never seen
so fine a specimen of the "Murex Tritonica."  But the latter very decidedly declined sacrificing
his breath in the cause of science, declaring that he had completely exhausted himself by his
exertions in pearl-diving.

Eiulo coming up at the moment with a number of shell-fish which he had obtained, Johnny appealed
to him for aid, and not in vain, for as soon as the much-coveted shell was pointed out to him,
he threw off his wrapper, and plunging into the water, almost instantly returned with it. Max
now showed him the supposed pearl-oyster, and challenged him to make an attempt to bring it
up.  Eiulo laughed, and nodded his acceptance of the challenge: after pausing a moment to take
breath, he dived perpendicularly downward, reaching the shell easily with a few strokes, and
made one or two vigorous but ineffectual jerks at it; then, just as I thought him about to
give it up, and ascend again, he grasped it with both hands, brought his feet under him, and
bracing himself firmly against the wall of coral, he wrenched it off, and bore the prize in
triumph to the surface.  It proved to be a pearl-oyster, as Max had supposed, and on being
opened was found to contain eleven seed-pearls. Eiulo presented the shell and its contents
to Johnny, who seemed to value the former, quite as much as the latter, and presently ran off
in search of Arthur, to inquire whether it should properly be classed with the "genus ostrea,"
or the "genus mytilus."

After watching the swimmers a little longer, I strolled along the reef, in the direction which
Johnny had taken in pursuit of Arthur, stopping occasionally to watch the bursting of a wave
of uncommon magnitude, or to examine some of the interesting objects that were strewn with
such profusion in every direction, and which rendered that barren ledge so choice a spot for
the studies of the naturalist.  Some ten or fifteen minutes had been thus employed, and it
was beginning to grow dark, so that Arthur and Johnny, whom I had not yet overtaken, could
be but just distinguished, like two specks in the distance, when I heard the powerful voice
of Browne, raised in a loud and prolonged halloo. Pausing to listen, I soon heard the cry repeated,
in a manner that showed as I thought, that something unusual had taken place.  Hastening back,
I found that Max and Browne had swum off to a coral knoll, in the lagoon, a stone's throw from
the reef, and dared not venture back, being closely blockaded by a large fish swimming about
near the spot, which they supposed to be a shark.  They called loudly for me to come after
them in the boat, and to lose no time about it, as there was water enough on the knoll, to
enable a shark, if tolerably enterprising, to reach them where they stood.  Though it was rapidly
getting dark, there was still sufficient light to enable me to distinguish an enormous fish
of some kind, cruising back and forth, with the regularity of a sentinel on duty, between the
reef, and the shallow where Max and Browne were standing up to their knees in water.  The case
appeared to admit of no delay, and jumping into the boat, I pulled over to the coral patch
with all possible speed, passing the fish close enough to see that it was in fact a large shark,
and he proved also to be an exceedingly fierce and ravenous one.  It almost seemed as though
he understood my errand, for he followed, or rather attended me, closely, keeping so near the
bow of the boat that it was with great difficulty and some danger, that I at length got the
blockaded swimmers aboard.  When this was effected, his disappointment and consequent bad temper
were quite apparent; he swam round and round the boat in the most disturbed and agitated manner
as we returned, making a variety of savage demonstrations, and finally going so far as to snap
spitefully at the oars, which he did not discontinue, until Browne had two or three times rapped
him smartly over the nose. After landing in safety, Max pelted him with shells and pieces of
coral rock, until he finally swam off.

Meantime, Arthur and Johnny had returned from their wandering along the reef; the latter had
come across another colony of crabs, and had succeeded in capturing three of them, or rather
two and a half, for having, as he fondly imagined, disabled one enormous fellow by hacking
him in two with his cutlass, the one half had scrambled into the hole, while Johnny was securing
the other.

We now placed the chama shells, the crabs, and other shell-fish, together with Johnny's specimens,
to which he had added a splendid madrepore vase, in the boat, and as soon as the swimmers were
dressed, we pulled over to Palm-islet.  Here we arranged a tent in the same manner as we had
done on the memorable night when we first reached these shores.  Max then kindled a fire, and
prepared to cook our supper.  The shell-fish were easily managed by placing them upon the embers,
but the crabs, which it was necessary to boil, and which were of the size of small lobsters,
presented a more difficult case.  Max's culinary genius, however, stimulated by a keen appetite,
eventually triumphed over every obstacle.  He procured a number of stones, which he heated
in the fire; then filling one of the deep and rounded chama shells with water, he proceeded
to drop the heated stones into it, using a couple of sticks as a pair of tongs.  This process
he continued until the water boiled, when he remorselessly plunged the unhappy crabs therein,
and from time to time dropped in more of the heated stones, until the cookery was complete.

CHAPTER TWENTY.

ARTHUR'S STORY.

BROWNE ON "THE KNIGHTLY CHARACTER"--ROKOA--THE CANNIBAL ISLAND OF ANGATAN.

  "This is no Grecian fable of fountains running wine,
  Of hags with snaky tresses, and sailors turned to swine:
  On yonder teeming island, under the noon day sun,
  In sight of many people, these strange, dark deeds were done."

Having made a hearty and satisfactory supper, and concluded the meal with a draught of cocoa-nut
milk, we sat down, like the patriarchs of old, "in the door of our tent" facing the sea, to
enjoy the freshness of the evening breeze.

Johnny, after having settled it to his own entire satisfaction, that the shell in which his
pearls had been found, was properly a mussel, and not an oyster; and having also, by Arthur's
help, resolved his doubts and difficulties, touching divers other knotty points in conchology;
successively raised and canvassed the grave and edifying questions-- whether there actually
were such creatures as mermaids?--whether sea-serpents were indigenous to the neighbourhood
of Cape Cod and Massachusetts Bay?--whether the narratives of ancient and modern voyagers,
in regard to Krakens, and gigantic Polypes, with feelers or arms as long as a ship's main-mast,
had any foundation in fact or were to be looked upon as sheer fabrications?--and, finally,
whether the hideous and revolting practice of cannibalism, really prevailed among the inhabitants
of certain groups of islands in the Pacific?

"This puts me in mind, Arthur," said Johnny, suddenly, while the last-mentioned subject was
under discussion, "of a promise you made during the voyage, to tell me a story about a cannibal
island upon which you were once cast, and the adventures you met with there.  This is a good
time to tell it: it is quite early, and the night so beautiful, that it would be a shame to
think of going to bed for two or three hours yet; for my part, I feel as though I could sit
here all night without getting sleepy."

"A happy thought, Johnny," said Browne, "it will be the pleasantest possible way of passing
the evening; therefore, Arthur, let us have the story."

"O yes, the story! let us have the cannibal story by all means!" cried Max, "this is just the
hour, and the place, to tell it with effect.  The dash of the surf upon the reef; the whispering
of the night wind in the tree-tops; the tall black groves on the shore yonder, and the water
lying blacker still in their shadow, will all harmonise admirably with the subject."

"I believe I did promise Johnny an account of an unintentional visit I once made to a place
known as `the Cannibal Island of Angatan,' and I have no objection to redeem my pledge now,
if desired.  I wish you to take notice, however, at the outset, in order to avoid raising false
expectations, that I do not promise you a `Cannibal Story'--how much my narrative deserves
such a title, will appear when you have heard it."

The call for the story being quite eager and unanimous, Arthur settled himself into a comfortable
position, and after giving one or two of those preliminary ahems, common to the whole fraternity
of story-tellers from time immemorial, he proceeded as follows:--

ARTHUR'S STORY OF THE CANNIBAL ISLAND OF ANGATAN.

"About a year and a half ago, and just before the time when I was to sail for the United States
to complete my preparation for the seminary, I was induced to embark upon a voyage to the Palliser
Islands, planned by a young chief of Eimeo, named Rokoa, and a Mr Barton, an American trader
residing at the island.  The object of the young chief in this expedition, was to ascertain
the fate of an elder brother, who had sailed for Anaa, or Chain island, several months before,
with the intention of returning immediately, but who had never since been heard from: that
of Mr Barton, was to engage a number of Hao-divers, for a pearl-fishing voyage, contemplated
by him in connection with another foreign trader.  He did not himself embark with us; but his
son, a young man, two or three years my senior, accompanied us instead, to make the necessary
arrangements for engaging the divers, and also to purchase any mother-of-pearl, pearls, and
tortoise-shell, which the natives might have to dispose of, at such places as we should visit.
With a view to the latter purpose, he was provided with a supply of trinkets and cheap goods
of various kinds, such as are used in this species of traffic.  At the Society Islands, the
natives had learned the fair value of their commodities, and would no longer exchange even
their yams, bread-fruit, and cocoa-nuts, for beads, spangles, and fragments of looking-glasses;
but among the smaller groups, lying farther to the eastward, where the intercourse with Europeans
was comparatively infrequent, these, and similar articles, were still in great demand, the
simple islanders readily giving rich shells, and valuable pearls, in barter for them.  I accompanied
the expedition, at the request of Rokoa, and with scarcely any other object than to gratify
him; though I was made the bearer of letters, and some trifling presents to a Tahitian native
missionary, who had recently gone to Hao, to labour there.  I had long known both Rokoa and
his brother, now supposed to be lost.  The former was a remarkable and interesting character.
He had accompanied my uncle and myself on a voyage to Hawaii, and visited with us the great
volcano of Kilauea, on that island, said to be by far the grandest and most wonderful in the
world, not excepting Vesuvius itself.  In making the descent into the crater, and while endeavouring
to reach what is called the Black Ledge, he saved my life at the imminent hazard of his own.
It was upon that voyage, that I first became acquainted with him.  We afterwards travelled
together, through the most wild and inaccessible parts of the interior of Tahiti and Eimeo;
and in the course of this intimacy, I discovered much in him to esteem and admire.  There was
in his character, such a union of gentleness and courage, such childlike openness of disposition,
and such romantic fidelity to what he considered the obligations of friendship, as reminds
me of young Edmund, in Johnny's favourite story of Asiauga's Knight.  With a chivalrous daring,
that could face the most appalling danger without a tremor, was united an almost feminine delicacy
of character, truly remarkable in a savage."

"That," said Browne, "is the true ideal of the knightly character-- courage, which nothing
can daunt, but without roughness or ferocity even in the hour of mortal combat.  The valour
of the knight is a high sentiment of honour, devotion, loyalty; it is calm, gentle, beautiful,
and is thus distinguished from the mere animal courage of the ruffian, which is brutal, fierce,
and cruel."

"I think I shall like Rokoa," said Johnny, rubbing his hands together in token of satisfaction,
"and I guess this is going to be an interesting story; there will be some fighting in it, I
expect."

"Of course, there will be plenty of fighting," said Max, "or else what is the meaning of this
preliminary flourish of trumpets, about Rokoa's chivalrous courage, and all that?"

"I once more give fair and timely notice, in order to prevent disappointment, that I am merely
relating a sober narrative of facts, and not improvising one of Max's florid romances about
Sooloo pirates, Spanish bandits, Italian bravos, or the robbers of the Hartz mountains."

"Or enchanted castles, captive princesses, valiant knights, fire-breathing dragons, and diabolical
old magicians," added Browne, "which formed the staple of a highly edifying tale with which
I overheard him entertaining Johnny the other afternoon at Castle-hill, as we were taking our
siesta in the shade."

"And a capital story it was, too," said Johnny, "but go on, Arthur, please."

"Well, every thing being arranged for our voyage, we set sail in a large `Vaa Motu,' or single
canoe, furnished with a great outrigger, and manned by a crew of nine natives.  Our cargo consisted
of Barton's stock of goods for trading with the islanders, and a quantity of stained tappa,
fine mats, shark's teeth, etcetera, which Rokoa had laid in for purposes of his own.

"The commencement of the voyage was pleasant and auspicious.  We set out in the morning, with
a fine westerly breeze, which is of rare occurrence in that latitude, and early in the afternoon
we passed the high island of Meetia, just in sight to the southward, showing that we had made
at least seventy miles, in about nine hours.  The wind continued steady and fair, and the next
day at sunset, we reached Anaa.  Here we remained only long enough to enable Rokoa to obtain
all the information to be had, that promised to throw any light upon the fate of his brother.
All that could be learned was, that a canoe from Tahiti had touched here several months since,
and after obtaining a supply of water, had immediately sailed for Motutunga, or Adventure Island,
but from the description given us of the canoe, and of the number and appearance of her company,
there was little reason to believe that this was the party with which Rokoa's brother had embarked.
Barton being anxious to improve the favourable breeze, which still continued to blow with unwonted
steadiness from such a quarter, we resumed our voyage, and steered eastward for Hao, on the
day after our arrival at Anaa.

"That night the weather suddenly changed, and a storm arose, the wind blowing strongly from
the south-west.  Our crew became alarmed, and a part of them began to clamour to return to
Anaa, which we might have done, by three or four hours' incessant paddling, in the teeth of
the gale.  Rokoa, however, believed that the weather would change again in the morning, and
determined to continue on our course; we accordingly ran before the wind, with barely sufficient
sail to keep the canoe steady, and enable us to steer her.  The storm continued without intermission
or abatement for the next twenty-four hours, contrary to Rokoa's prediction; and to avoid the
danger of being swamped, we were obliged still to keep running before it.  The second night,
at sunset, the wind fell, and in the morning, the sea had become tolerably smooth, with only
a moderate breeze blowing.  But though the gale had ceased, the weather was still thick, and
the sky so obscured by clouds that we could not see the sun, or even fix upon the quarter of
the heavens in which he stood.  Thus, those means upon which the natives are wont to rely for
directing their course upon their long voyages, wholly failed us.  The canoe was furnished
with a small ship's compass, a present to Rokoa from the missionaries, but this had been broken,
by one of our crew being thrown violently upon it during the storm, while Barton was consulting
it.  We did not get even a glimpse of the sun all that day; nor the next, until late in the
afternoon, when it cleared beautifully, and for the first time since the loss of the compass,
we were able to distinguish north from south, and east from west.  We found that we had got
completely `turned round,' as the phrase is, and were heading due north; and we now put about,
and steered in what we supposed to be the right direction.  At dawn the next day, we were surprised
to find ourselves in sight of a strange island, which none of us remembered having seen before.
A remarkable looking black rock, resembling the hull of a large man-of-war, rose abruptly from
the water about half a mile from the shore.

"Rokoa, who had sailed a great deal among the islands east of Tahiti, and had visited most
of them, could form no conjecture in regard to the one now in sight.  Presently some of our
crew began to whisper mysteriously together, and the word was passed from one to another, that
this was no other than the ill-famed island of Angatan.  I knew that an island of that name,
the subject of a thousand bug-bear stories, to which I had often incredulously listened, was
said to lie somewhere to the north of Hao; but I had never met with any one who could give
me any definite and satisfactory information respecting it.

"According to general report, its inhabitants were cannibals, and were in the habit of murdering
and devouring all who were so unfortunate as to be cast upon their shores, or who had the hardihood
or temerity voluntarily to land upon them.  It was also said, that the island had never been
visited by white men; and, owing to the popular belief in regard to the ferocious and warlike
character of its people, it is certain that the natives of the neighbouring groups could not,
as a general thing, be induced by any consideration to engage in a voyage having this reputed
cannibal island for its destination; voyages of this kind having been sometimes contemplated,
but never to my knowledge actually undertaken.

"Among the other marvellous reports concerning Angatan, was one, to the effect that its inhabitants
were possessed of immense hoards of pearls and shell, of the value of which they were utterly
ignorant.

"One of our crew, a garrulous Hao-man, and an inveterate boaster, declared that, about a year
since, he had embarked for Angatan with a party of Chain Islanders, in a large double canoe,
being tempted to incur the perils of the enterprise, by the prospect of the enormous gains
that might be realised in trading with the natives, if a friendly intercourse could once be
opened with them.  They had succeeded in reaching the island; but scarcely had they set foot
upon the shore, when they were attacked by a party of the inhabitants, who issued suddenly
from the forest, and, disregarding all their friendly signs and gestures, fell upon them, and
killed the greater part of their number, the rest making their escape with difficulty, and
solely through the courage, presence of mind, and extraordinary exertions of the narrator,
without which they must all infallibly have perished.  He described the islanders as fierce,
wild-looking men, of gigantic stature, armed with long spears, and heavy clubs set with sharks'
teeth, and wearing little or no clothing; yet, strange to tell, around the necks of these almost
naked savages were strings of the richest pearls, instead of the common ornaments of ovula-shells.

"Our veracious Hao-man, most solemnly asseverated the entire and literal truth of all these
particulars, and declared that the island before us was the veritable cannibal Angatan, the
singular black rock enabling him, as he said, to identify it beyond all doubt.  To this story
I was myself disposed to accord about the same degree of credit as to the adventures of Sinbad
the Sailor; but it was easy to perceive that our crew, far from being so sceptical, were firm
and unhesitating believers in Angatan, its man-eating giants, its treasures of pearl, and the
whole catalogue of marvels current respecting it.

"I was the less inclined to repose any confidence in the man's declarations, because all the
best accounts located Angatan far to the north of Hao and Amanu, while we had reason to believe
that we were now to the south-west of them.

"Barton's curiosity and love of adventure, were stimulated by what he had heard; perhaps, also,
the hints which had been dropped respecting rich shell and costly pearls, were not without
their due share of influence, and he declared himself desirous of taking a closer look at this
`terra incognita,' respecting which such marvellous tales were current.  Rokoa, too, no sooner
heard the first whispered conjecture of the identity of the place before us with Angatan, than
he resolved to land, notwithstanding the evident reluctance of the crew, and the open remonstrances
and warnings of Sinbad.  I suspected, I scarcely know why, that he cherished a vague hope of
being able to gain here some clue to the fate of his missing brother.  On approaching the shore,
we found that a heavy surf broke upon it, but there was a good beach, and a landing could be
effected without much difficulty.  We accordingly took in our sail, and resorting to the paddles,
made for what seemed to be a favourable spot.  Soon after passing the black rock before alluded
to, I observed several figures stealing along the shore, in the covert of a row of mangrove
bushes, and apparently watching our movements.  When we had reached the edge of the surf, and
were preparing to dash through it, they came out of the thicket, and with threatening gestures
warned us away.  This created such a panic among our crew, that they could not be prevailed
upon to paddle nearer.  Rokoa stood up in the bow, and made such signs and gestures as are
used to indicate peaceful and friendly intentions, while Barton displayed some of his most
attractive-looking trinkets.  The people on shore now seemed to confer together, and in a few
moments, one of their number, who, from his stained tiputa of yellow and crimson, appeared
to be a chief or person of consequence, came down to the water's edge, waving a green bough,
and beckoning us to land. Our Sinbad pronounced this sudden apparent change in their disposition
towards us, to be a treacherous pretence, designed to lure us ashore, in order that they might
plunder, kill, and devour us; but, as he did not explain why, if such was their object, they
should in the first place have menaced us as they had done, we gave little heed to his warnings.
The party of natives did not seem greatly to outnumber us, and were not particularly formidable
in their appearance.  They were, as well as we could judge at such a distance, of no more than
the ordinary stature. With the exception of the individual already referred to, in the gay
tiputa, they wore nothing but the maro, and were armed with long spears. Nevertheless, our
crew still refused to make any nearer approach, suspecting that more of the natives were lurking
among the mangrove; ready to sally out upon us at the proper moment if we should venture to land.

"Rokoa, finding all attempts to overcome the cowardice of our men unavailing, took a few trinkets
in his hand, and springing overboard, swam through the surf to the shore.  The personage in
the tiputa waited to receive him, continuing to wave the green branch, and to make amicable
signs.  Rokoa advanced, and greeted him in the Tahitian fashion, by rubbing faces.  The two
then walked together to the skirts of the wood, where the others still kept themselves, and
Rokoa after distributing his trinkets, came down to the beach again, and beckoned us to come
ashore, supposing that our crew might by this time be so far reassured as to venture it.  Sinbad
was about to remonstrate again, when Barton drew a pocket-pistol, with a pair of which he was
provided, and threatened to shoot him, unless he kept quiet.  This effectually silenced the
croakings of the Hao-man, for the time at least and we finally induced some of the others to
take to the paddles, and push through the surf to the spot where Rokoa awaited us.  As soon
as the canoe was beached, and we were all fairly ashore, the natives came forward, somewhat
hastily, from the skirt of the wood, probably in the expectation of receiving further presents;
but our men, mistaking this sudden advance for a hostile movement, laid hold of the canoe,
and would have put her into the water again, had not Rokoa, armed with a heavy paddle, and
backed by Barton with his pistols, interfered with so much decision and vigour, that their
fears began to take a new direction and they came to the sensible conclusion, that they had
better run the risk of being roasted and eaten by the cannibals, than encounter the far more
immediate danger of having their heads broken by the club of their chief, or their bodies bored
through by the pistol-balls of the young Papalangi.

"On the other hand, the leader of the party of natives spoke to them, and restrained their
impatience; then, advancing before the rest, he waved his hand, and throwing himself into an
oratorical attitude, made a little speech, thanking Rokoa for his gifts, and welcoming us to
the island.  The language which he spoke was a dialect of the Tahitian, differing from it so
slightly that I had no difficulty in understanding what he said.

"When he had finished, Rokoa made an appropriate reply, according to the rules of Polynesian
etiquette.  He commenced by paying our gaudily-attired friend some florid compliments.  He
then gave a graphic account of our voyage, describing the storm which we had encountered in
such terms, that our escape must have seemed little short of a miracle; and concluded by stating
the manner in which we had been driven from our course, and finally reached the island.  The
natives listened attentively, and signified their sense of Rokoa's eloquence by frequent exclamations
of `Maitai!  Maitai!'  (good! good!) and by nodding their heads emphatically at the end of
every sentence."

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.

THE CANNIBAL VILLAGE.

THE MARAE AND THE PRIEST--MOWNO AT HOME--CANNIBAL YOUNG LADIES--OLLA AND HER FRIENDS.

  "And there, with awful rites, the hoary priest,
  Beside that moss-grown heathen altar stood,
  His dusky form in magic cincture dressed,
  And made the offering to his hideous god."

"So then," said Browne, interrupting Arthur's narrative, "these two parties of savages, instead
of going to work, knocking each others' brains out, as one might naturally have expected, actually
commenced entertaining one another with set speeches, very much like the mayor and aldermen
of a city corporation receiving a deputation of visitors!"

"There is," replied Arthur, "an almost childish fondness of form and ceremony among all the
Polynesian tribes, as is seen at their high feasts and festivals, their games, and religious
rites.  The chiefs and priests are in the habit of making little orations upon a variety of
occasions, when this is expected of them.  Formerly there existed in the Society Islands, a
class of persons called Rautis, or orators of battle, whose exclusive business it was to exhort
the people in time of war, and on the eve of an engagement.  Even during the heat of conflict
they mingled with the combatants, and strove to animate and inflame their courage, by recounting
the exploits of their ancestors, and urging every motive calculated to excite desperate valour
and contempt of death. Some very remarkable instances of the powerful effect produced by the
eloquence of these Rautis are recorded, showing that they constituted a by no means useless
or ineffective part of a native army.  The islanders almost universally have a taste for oratory,
by which they are easily affected; and they hold those who excel in it in high estimation."

"It would appear then," said Browne, "that they are not such utter heathens after all; I should
never have given them credit for so much taste and sensibility."

"You see, Browne," said Max, "what advantages you will enjoy over the rest of us, when we get
to Eiulo's island, as Johnny is confident we are destined to do, one of these days.  You shall
then astonish the simple inhabitants, with Pitt's reply to Walpole, or `Now is the winter of
our discontent,' and gain advancement in the state, by your oratorical gifts.  Who knows but
you may rise to be prime-minister, or chief Rauti, to his majesty the king!"

"Pray, let Arthur proceed with his story," said Morton, laughing, "I see that Johnny is beginning
to grow impatient: he probably thinks it high time for the cannibals to be introduced, and
the fighting to commence."

"Well," resumed Arthur, "as soon as the speech-making was over, the natives, who seemed thus
far, quite friendly and inoffensive, came forward once more, and we all went through the ceremony
of rubbing faces, with a great show of cordiality, though it was easy to perceive that our
party were still under the influence of secret fears and misgivings.

"Barton and I, received more than our due proportion of these civilities, and from the wondering
exclamations of our new acquaintances as they examined the articles which composed our dress,
and their remarks to one another upon our complexion, I inferred that some of them at least,
had never seen a white person before.  Barton, in particular, attracted a large share of their
attention, owing probably to a complexion rather florid, and uncommonly fair, notwithstanding
a two years' residence within the tropics, which, together with his light hair and blue eyes,
afforded a striking contrast to the tawny skins and long black elf-locks of the natives.

"The chief of the party, who had acted as spokesman, was called Mowno. He was a young man,
with a handsome, boyish face, expressive of good-nature and indolence.  Rokoa walked apart
with him to make inquiries, as I had no doubt, connected with the subject of his brother's
fate.  Meanwhile Barton produced a piece of tortoise-shell, and some pearls, which he exhibited
to the natives, asking whether they had any articles of the kind; but after carelessly looking
at them, they shook their heads, and inquired what such things were good for; whereupon Barton,
casting an annihilating glance at the disconcerted Sinbad, significantly demanded of him what
had become of those necklaces of pearls, worn by the natives of Angatan, and whether these
simple, inoffensive people, were the gigantic cannibals, about whom he had manufactured such
enormous lies.

"After Mowno had concluded his conference with Rokoa, he led us to a large building near the
beach, in a very ruinous and decayed state, and completely over-shadowed by aged tamanu-trees.
It seemed, from its size and peculiar structure, to be a deserted marae, or native temple.
He then sent away two of his people, who soon returned with several clusters of cocoa-nuts,
and some bananas, for our refreshment.  On learning that the supply of water which we had taken
in for our voyage, was nearly exhausted, he informed us that there was no spring or stream,
nearer than his village, which was some two miles inland, and promised to have a supply sent
us during the day.  They had come down to the shore, as we now learned, for the purpose of
cutting mangrove roots, from which they make large and powerful bows, and the whole party soon
left us at the marae, and proceeded to the beach; in about an hour we saw them depart inland,
carrying fagots of these roots, without taking any further notice of us.

"It had fallen calm soon after sunrise, so that we could not for the present have resumed our
voyage, had we been so inclined.

"About half an hour before noon, a number of the natives whom we had seen in the morning, again
made their appearance, with several large calabashes of water, and a quantity of taro and bread-fruit
for our use. Rokoa distributed among them some trifling presents, which they hastily concealed
among the folds of their maros.  A few moments afterwards Mowno himself emerged from the grove,
attended by the remainder of the party we had seen in the morning.  There was now a further
distribution of presents, when I perceived the reason why the first comers had so hastily concealed
the trifles which had been given them.  All presents, no matter on whom bestowed, seemed to
be regarded as the especial perquisites of the chief, and a youth, who acted as Mowno's personal
attendant, presently went round among the others, collecting and taking possession of everything
which he had seen them receive.  This was submitted to without remonstrance, and apparently
as a matter of course, though by no means cheerfully.

"Soon after this somewhat autocratic proceeding, Mowno turned abruptly to Barton, and saying
that he must now return to the village, invited him to go with him to visit it.  Barton appearing
to hesitate, the chief pressed the matter so earnestly that his suspicions were aroused, and
he peremptorily declined.  Mowno's angry looks evinced his displeasure, and after walking about
for a quarter of an hour in sullen silence, with very much the demeanour of a spoiled child
thwarted in his whim, he at length made a similar request of me, letting drop at the same time,
some expression to the effect that one of us must go with him.  Fortunately Rokoa, whose high
spirit would have taken instant offence at the least semblance of a threat, did not hear this.
I saw plainly, that for some reason, the young chief had set his heart upon having either Barton
or myself visit his village, and I suspected this was, in fact, the sole object of his return.
I observed, also, that his party was somewhat more numerous, and much better armed than it
had been in the morning, and I had no doubt that, rather than suffer himself to be baffled
in his purpose, he would resort to force to accomplish it.

"After a moment's reflection, I was pretty well satisfied that I had nothing to fear from acceding
to his request, believing, as I did, that I understood the motive of it.  I thought, too, that
a refusal would in all probability lead to an instant hostile collision between the natives
and ourselves, and I finally resolved to accept, or more accurately speaking, to yield to,
the invitation.  Having come to this conclusion, I told Mowno that I would go with him, upon
the condition that I should return before night, to which he readily assented, showing extreme
satisfaction at having finally succeeded in his wishes.  I gave no credit to the alleged cannibal
propensities of the islanders, and was inclined from what I had already seen, to think much
more favourably of them than the event justified.  I supposed that the curiosity of the people
of the village had been excited by the reports of those who had seen us in the morning, respecting
the pale-faced strangers, and that Mowno's only object in insisting as he did, on having Barton
or myself go with him, was to gratify some aged chief who was too infirm to come down to the
shore to see us, or did not want to take the trouble of doing so."

"Well, was you right in your conjecture?" inquired Browne.

"Yes, partially at least; there was, I think, no unfriendly motive as far as Mowno was concerned.
What designs others of the natives may have entertained I will not at present undertake to
say.  But instead of some superannuated chief, it was the curiosity of Mowno's young wife that
was to be gratified.  On hearing his account of the white strangers, she had despatched him
forthwith back to the shore, to bring them to the village; which commission, it seemed, he
was resolved faithfully to execute, at every hazard."

"Really," said Browne, "civilisation must have made some considerable progress in Angatan,
if the savages there make such docile and complaisant husbands."

"This was not an ordinary case," replied Arthur; "in the first place, Mowno was an uncommonly
good-natured sort of a savage; then he had a very pretty, persuasive little wife, and he had
not yet been long enough married, to have entirely merged the zeal and devotion of the lover,
in the easy indifference, and staid authority of the husband; but this is anticipating.

"When I informed Rokoa of the young chief's invitation, and my acceptance of it, he refused
to consent to my going, except upon the condition that he should accompany me, and share whatever
danger might attend the step.  Mowno acquiesced in this arrangement, though I thought he didn't
seem to be altogether pleased with it.  Barton, also, on learning that Rokoa and myself had
concluded to go to the village, resolved to accompany us.  Mowno was impatient to have us set
out at once, and Rokoa having given some directions to the crew, as to their conduct during
our absence, we hastily made our preparations, and in a few moments after the matter had been
decided upon, the whole party left the shore and entered the forest.  A quarter of an hour's
walk brought us to a flourishing bread-fruit plantation, which we passed through without seeing
a single dwelling, or any indications of inhabitants. This was bounded by a wild ravine, crossing
which, we entered a dense and gloomy grove, composed almost entirely of the sacred miro, and
one other kind of tree, the branches of which sprang horizontally from the trunk, in a series
of whorls, one above another, twisting round from left to right, and clothed with broad leaves
of so dark a green as to seem almost black.  Near the centre of this grove, we came suddenly
upon a large marae, built principally of loose stones, overgrown with moss and lichens.  It
was a spacious, uncovered inclosure, the front of which consisted of a strong bamboo fence,
while the three remaining sides were of stone.  Within the inclosure, at one side, was a small
building, probably the priest's dwelling, and in the centre arose a solid pyramidal structure,
on the terraced sides of which were ranged the misshapen figures of several gigantic idols.
In front of this, and between four rude tumuli of broken coral, was a low platform, supported
by stakes, and resembling the altars used for human sacrifices, during the ancient reign of
heathenism in Tahiti.  Beneath this platform, or altar, was a pile of human skulls; and suspended
from the trees, were the shells of enormous turtles, and the skeletons of fishes.  A hideous-looking
old man, whom I supposed to be the priest, sat in the door of the small building, within the
inclosure, and looking intently at me, made strange faces as we passed by.  His skin was sallow,
and singularly speckled, probably from some cutaneous disease; he had no eyebrows, and his
eyes were small and glittering like those of a snake; in his countenance there was a mingled
expression of cunning and cruelty that made me shudder.  When we were nearest to him in passing,
he struck himself violently on the breast, and cried out in a strong but dissonant voice, pointing
with his long, skeleton fingers, towards the young chief:--`Mowno, son of Maloa, rob not the
servant of Oro of a priest's share!' so at least, I understood the words which he uttered;
but the natives hurried on, without seeming to pay any attention to him."

"That would have frightened me mortally," interrupted Johnny.  "I should have thought that
they were going to make a cannibal feast of me, and that the wicked old priest was speaking
for his share."

"Well, I confess that some notion of the sort flashed across my mind for a moment.  The dark
grove, the great idolatrous looking marae, with its heathen altar, and monstrous images; the
pile of skulls; the hideous old man and his strange words; all tended to suggest vague but
startling suspicions.  But another glance at the open and friendly countenances of our guides
reassured me.  In answer to a question in regard to the building which we had just passed,
Mowno said, with a natural and indifferent air, that it was the house of Oro, where a great
solemnity was soon to be celebrated; and although I did not allude to the skulls, he added
that they were a part of the remains of the priests, who had been buried within the inclosure,
and which were now, in accordance with an established custom, placed beneath the altar.  The
dark wood was bounded by a charming valley, with a brook running through it, and I was glad
to escape from its gloomy shade, into the cheerful light.  We forded the shallow stream, which
was so clear that every pebble in its gravelly bed was visible, and found ourselves at the
foot of a long, green slope.  Before us, lying partly in the valley, and straggling half-way
up the ascent, was a pretty village.  The neat and light-built native dwellings dotted the
side of the slope, or peeped out from among embowering trees along the banks of the brook,
in the most picturesque manner.  The thatching of the cottages, bleached to an almost snowy-whiteness,
offered a pleasing contrast to the surrounding verdure. Troops of children were pursuing their
sports in every direction.  Some were wading in the stream, sailing tiny boats, or actively
spattering one another with water, a recreation which they could enjoy without any fear of
that damage to clothing, which would have rendered it objectionable in more highly civilised
communities.  Others again, (many of them scarcely old enough to walk, as one would suppose),
were swimming about in the deeper places, like amphibious creatures.  Some were swinging on
ropes of sennit, suspended from the branches of the trees, and a few were quietly sitting in
the shade, making bouquets and wreaths of wild-flowers.  Among them all, there was not a single
deformed or sickly-looking child.  I did not observe any grown persons, most of them probably
being at that hour asleep in their houses.  In passing through the village, our escort closed
around us in such a manner as to screen us from observation, and we reached the top of the
slope without seeming to have attracted notice.  Here Mowno dismissed all his attendants except
two, and we then struck into a fine avenue of well-grown trees, running along the crest of
the hill, and leading to a large native house, of oval form, prettily situated upon a green
knoll, and over-shadowed by wide-branching bread-fruit trees.  This, Mowno informed us, was
his dwelling.  At a short distance from the house, beneath a fan-palm, was a group of young
girls, so entirely absorbed in the congenial task of arranging one another's abundant tresses,
and adorning themselves with flowers, that they did not observe our approach.  Mowno seemed
intent upon some playful surprise, and laughing softly to himself like a pleased child, he
motioned us to hide ourselves in a thicket of young casuarinas.  From our ambush he pointed
out to us one of the group beneath the palm, having several white buds of the fragrant gardenia
in her hair, and a garland of the rosa cinensis about her neck; when satisfied that he had
drawn our attention to the right person, he gave us to understand, with an air of great complacency,
that she was `Olla,' his wife.  While thus engaged, we were suddenly discovered, being betrayed
by Mowno's gaudy tiputa, seen through the foliage by the quick eye of his better half, who
immediately sprang up with a clear, ringing laugh, scattering a lapful of flowers upon the
ground, and came running like a fawn towards him; the rest of us still keeping concealed. 
She was very pretty, graceful as a bird in every movement, and had a singularly pleasing expression
of countenance.

"On witnessing the greeting which she bestowed upon Mowno, Barton whispered me that he ought
to consider himself a happy savage, and to do him justice, he seemed to be of the same opinion
himself.  She commenced talking at once, with wonderful vivacity, pouring forth a continuous
torrent of words, with little gushes of laughter interspersed here and there by way of punctuation,
and making no longer or more frequent pauses than were absolutely necessary for the purpose
of taking breath. Notwithstanding her amazing volubility, I could understand enough of what
she said, to perceive that she was inquiring after `the pale-faced youths,' and presently she
appeared to be scolding her husband in a pretty lively strain, for having failed to bring them
with him according to his promise.  It was amusing to witness Mowno's ludicrous struggles to
look grave, while he made feigned excuses, and explanations of our absence.  His demeanour
resembled more that of a boy, whose head has been turned by becoming, for the first time, the
actual and uncontrolled owner of a watch, or a fowling-piece, than of a stern warrior, or savage
chief.  He could not, with all his efforts, maintain sufficient gravity and self-possession,
to carry out the jest, poor as it was, which he had undertaken; but kept glancing towards our
hiding-place, and finally, burst into a boisterous explosion of laughter; when Olla, peeping
into the thicket, caught sight of us, and instantly darted away with a pretty half-scream,
and rejoined her companions.  Mowno now beckoned us forth, and we approached the group, whereupon
they made a show of scampering off into the grove, but apparently thought better of it, and
concluded to stand their ground.  At first, they seemed actually afraid of Barton and myself,
peeping cautiously at us over one another's shoulders from a safe distance.  Presently, one,
more enterprising than the rest, ventured so far as to reach out her hand, and touch Barton
on the cheek, when, finding that no disastrous consequences immediately followed this act of
temerity, they gradually laid aside their apprehensions, and pressing around us, soon became
sufficiently familiar to try a variety of highly original and interesting experiments upon
our complexion and clothing.  These, though somewhat annoying, were accompanied by questions
and observations so irresistibly ludicrous, that we soon found it entirely out of the question
to preserve any sort of gravity, and as the whole troop always joined in our laughter without
stopping to understand its cause, or instantly led off of themselves, upon the slightest provocation,
the woods resounded with peals of merriment.

"One of these damsels, after examining Barton's fair skin, and flowing yellow locks, gravely
communicated to a companion, her conviction that we had come from the moon.  A second stoutly
maintained our earthly origin, and attributed our paleness to the influence of some strange
sickness; while a third, being of a sceptical and suspicious turn of mind, suddenly seized
Barton by the wrist and spitting upon the skirt of her pareu, commenced scrubbing his hand
with great vigour, to see whether the colours were fast.  Our tight-fitting garments; too,
seemed to puzzle them exceedingly, and we were listeners to an animated debate, upon the question
whether they were a natural or an artificial covering; the young lady who upheld the theory
of our lunar origin, inclining strongly to the opinion, that like the feathery coat of birds,
our clothing was a part of ourselves.  But the sagacity and penetration of the one who had
endeavoured to wash the paint from Barton's hand, soon enabled her to discover the unsoundness
of this doctrine, and, in order the more triumphantly to refute it, she insisted upon pulling
off my jacket, and trying it on herself.  Finding that nothing less would satisfy her, I resigned
the garment, when having succeeded, with some assistance, in getting into it, and buttoning
it up as far as was practicable, she snatched Barton's cap to complete her costume, and commenced
parading up and down the avenue, the admiration and envy of her companions.  I fully expected
that Barton's coat would next be put in requisition, and he whispered me that he stood in momentary
dread, lest the now awakened spirit of investigation and experiment, should prompt our new
friends to still more embarrassing extremes.

"This, however, proved to be a groundless apprehension, for their curiosity was presently diverted
into a new channel by Olla, who suddenly demanded to know my name.  I accordingly repeated
it, and she endeavoured several times to pronounce it after me, but without success. The `th'
seemed to constitute an insuperable difficulty, which, however, she finally evaded, by softening
`Arthur' into `Artua,' and this, singularly enough, was what Rokoa had always been in the habit
of calling me.  He and Barton were now called upon for their names, and in return, we were
favoured with the liquid and vowelly appellatives, by which our ingenuous and communicative
acquaintances were respectively designated.  Barton assumed the alias of Tom, which was straightway
metamorphosed into `Tomma.'

"While this exchange of names was going on, an old woman came from the house, and delivered
some message to Olla, which from the repetition of the words `poe, poe,' I conjectured to be
a summons to dinner.  Mowno leading the way, we now proceeded towards the dwelling.  It was
surrounded by a strong, but neat hedge of the ti-plant some three and a half feet high, with
an ingeniously contrived wicker gate opposite the door.  A path strewn with marine shells,
and fragments of white coral, led from the gate to the door.  The space within the inclosure
was chiefly devoted to the cultivation of yams and other vegetables, but Olla showed me a little
plot of ground, near the house, which she said was her own garden.  It was tastefully arranged,
and carefully kept, and a considerable variety of flowers, all of which she had herself transplanted
from the woods, were there in full bloom.  Most conspicuous among them was the native jasmine,
and a species of wood-pink, both of which were fragrant.  The building itself was a model of
a native dwelling, and since we are to-morrow to try our own skill in house-building, I will
endeavour to describe it.  It was of an oval shape; the sides were inclosed with handsome mats,
with spaces left for the admission of light and air.  The roof was composed of a firm and durable
thatch of pandanus leaves, strung upon small reeds, laid closely together, and overlapping
one another from the eaves to the ridge-pole.

"From the inside, the appearance was the neatest and prettiest imaginable, the whiteness of
the straight and slender rafters of peeled hibiscus, contrasting well with the ceiling of shining
brown leaves which they sustained.  The furniture of the house consisted of a number of large
sleeping-mats, five or six carved wooden stools, and two narrow tables, or rather shelves,
of wicker-work, fastened against the wall at opposite sides of the room.  Upon one of these
were arranged a number of calabashes, carved wooden dishes, cocoa-nut drinking-cups, and other
domestic utensils.  Upon the other was a native drum, several clubs and spears, a long vivo
or native flute, and a hideous-looking wooden image with four arms and a bunch of red feathers
fastened to what was doubtless meant for its head.  The rafters were ornamented with braided
and coloured cords wound round them, the ends of which hung down several feet, and sustained
a number of weapons and various other articles suspended by them.

"At the farther end of the room, a woman was pounding taro, or bread-fruit, in a wooden mortar;
another, apparently very old and infirm, was sitting upon a low stool near the wall, swaying
her body slowly from side to side, and making a low, monotonous noise.  I observed that Olla
frequently looked towards the latter, with a mournful expression of countenance.  When we first
entered the house, she went and sat down by her side, and talked with her in a low tone, and
when she turned away, her eyes were full of tears.  The old woman did not evince any corresponding
emotion, but muttered something feebly and indistinctly, as if replying to what Olla had said,
of which I could distinguish the words, `It is best, child; Malola is very old; she is sick
and weak; she cannot work; it is time she should be buried out of the way.'  I instantly suspected
that this unhappy creature was to be destroyed by her own friends, on account of her age and
infirmities, according to a most horrible and unnatural, but too prevalent custom.  I had once
been present at a scene of this kind, without the slightest possibility of successful interference,
when a native woman had been strangled; her own son, pulling at one end of the tappa which
encircled his mother's neck.  In that case, the victim, instead of submitting quietly and willingly
to her fate, (as is most usual), suddenly lost her courage at the moment of reaching the grave,
beside which she was to be strangled, and opposed a frantic and desperate resistance to her
murderers.  Her heart-rending cries; her fearful struggles; and, more than all, the horrid
indifference and cruelty of her executioners, have left upon my mind an indelible impression.
I now resolved that if my suspicions proved just, I would make an earnest effort to prevent
the repetition of so inhuman a deed, and from what I had already seen of the mild disposition
of Mowno, I was inclined to believe that there was great hope of success in such an endeavour.

"Rokoa, on hearing the conversation above mentioned, had given me a significant glance, which
sufficiently explained to me how he understood it.  A very few moments sufficed to confirm
my worst suspicions: I learned that the aged female who had spoken of herself as Malola, was
Mowno's aunt and that she was, with her own full consent and approval, to be destroyed in a
few days.  From the manner in which Olla alluded to it, while I inferred that such acts were
by no means uncommon among these people, I at the same time clearly perceived, that custom
and education had not stifled or perverted in her gentle nature, at least, the ordinary feelings
and impulses of humanity, and that she anticipated the deed with terror and loathing.  I determined
to watch for an opportunity to converse with Mowno, and discover, if possible, whether the
cruel insensibility, implied in countenancing such a practice, could really be concealed beneath
so smooth and pleasant an aspect.

"Meanwhile, the meal, to which we had been summoned, was spread under the shade trees beside
the house.  It consisted of baked fish, served up in banana leaves, roasted yams, poe-poe,
a preparation of bread-fruit, and an excellent kind of pudding, made of cocoa-nut-pulp and
taro.  It was easy to perceive that Olla, with all her playfulness and girlish vivacity, was
a notable housekeeper."

"Let me interrupt you a moment, to ask a single question," said Max. "Did you get the recipe
for making that pudding from Mrs Mowno?--if so, please impart the same for the general good,
and I will try my hand at it the first convenient opportunity."

"Heathen!" exclaimed Browne, "can you think of nothing but gormandising? Pray, Arthur, proceed."

"And bring on those cannibals forthwith," added Morton, "for unless you do so, Johnny will
despair entirely of any fighting, and go to sleep."

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO.

AN EXPLOSION.

THE CANNIBALS APPRECIATE MUSIC AND ELOQUENCE, BUT TAKE OFFENCE AT THE NEW THEOLOGY.

  "Then tumult rose, fierce rage, and wild affright."

"In the afternoon," resumed Arthur, "we went with our host and hostess, and our companions
at dinner, to a grove on the banks of the stream--a place of general resort for the villagers
during the latter part of every fine day.  The younger people met there, to pursue a variety
of sports and athletic exercises, and the older to gossip and look on.  We had intended to
return to the boat, as soon as the repast was over, and it would have been well had we done
so.  But our new friends insisted so strenuously upon our accompanying them to the grove, that
we yielded at last to their playful importunities, so far as to consent to make a brief pause
there on our way.  We had gone but a short distance from the house, when a bird of about the
size of a robin, flew down from a tree beneath which we were passing, and after circling several
times around Olla's head, alighted on her finger, which she held out for it to perch upon.
It was a young wood-pigeon, which she had found in the grove, when a callow half-fledged thing,
the old bird having been captured or killed by some juvenile depredators.  Taking pity on its
orphan state, Olla had adopted and made a pet of it: it was now perfectly tame, and would come
readily at her call of `Lai-evi', (little captive), the name she had given it, attending her
so closely as to be seldom during the day beyond the sound of her voice.

"On reaching the grove, we found quite a number of the natives, of all ages and of both sexes
assembled, and though they soon began to gather about us with inquisitive looks, we were subjected
to much less annoyance than might reasonably have been expected under the circumstances.  We
were neither crowded, nor jostled, nor even offensively stared at, the very children appearing
to possess an innate delicacy and sense of propriety, (though it may have been timidity), which
made them try to gratify their curiosity covertly, seizing those opportunities to peep at us,
when they thought they were themselves unobserved.

"Barton, who possessed an enviable faculty of adapting himself to all sorts of people and circumstances,
was in a few moments as much at home among the villagers as if he had lived for years in their
midst.  He gossiped with the old people, romped with the children, and chatted and frolicked
with the prettiest and most lively of the dusky maidens, to the manifest disapprobation of
several grim-looking young savages, who stalked about in sullen dignity watching these familiar
proceedings of the handsome stranger, with rising jealousy and indignation.

"At length a bevy of laughing girls, in punishment for some impertinence with which they charged
him, fell to pelting him with jasmine buds and pandanus cones, the latter of which, in mischievous
hands, are capable of becoming rather formidable missiles.  Foremost among the assailants were
our fair acquaintances of the morning, and even Olla, forgetting her matronly station and dignity,
joined zealously in the flowery warfare; which was maintained with such spirit, that Barton
was at length obliged to beg for quarter, promising at the same time to `make some music' for
them, as a condition of the suspension of hostilities. This proposition, as soon as it was
understood, seemed to afford the most extravagant delight; the shower of missiles ceased at
once, and Barton was immediately surrounded by as attentive and breathlessly expectant an audience
as artist could desire.  Taking his stand upon a moss-covered fragment of rock, he drew an
enormous Jew's-harp from his pocket, and handed it to me, gravely requesting me to `accompany'
him upon it, while he sang.  Then, after clearing his throat, with quite a professional air,
he commenced `Hail Columbia,' and as he had a full, clear voice, and sang with great spirit,
the performance was listened to with every mark of enjoyment, and was succeeded by rapturous
applause.

"He next gave a solo on the Jew's-harp to the air of `Yankee Doodle,' with brilliant and original
variations, which likewise met with a flattering reception.  But by far the greatest sensation
was produced by `Auld Lang syne,' which we sang together as a grand finale.  The natives really
seemed to feel the sentiment of the music, although Barton turned it into a burlesque by such
an exaggerated pathos of tone and expression, and gesture, that I had much difficulty in getting
through my part of the performance without laughing; but my vexation at being surprised into
taking a part in such a piece of buffoonery, greatly helped me in resisting my sense of the
ludicrous.  At the end of every verse, Barton grasped my hand in the most demonstrative manner,
and commenced shaking it vigorously, looking me all the while solemnly in the face, and shaking
away through the entire chorus, thereby producing a number of quavers, which, though not set
down in the music, greatly added to its pathetic character.  After the last chorus, he spread
open his arms, rushed forward, and gave me a stage embrace.  This performance, including the
pantomime, must have been of a very moving character, for when we had finished, I actually
saw tears in the eyes of several of our audience.  This evidence of the gentle and unsophisticated
character of these simple people, affected me almost as much as our music had moved them, and
I could not help thinking to how much better account such amiable impressibility was capable
of being turned.

"Having thus performed his promise, Barton now insisted that we ought to be entertained in
our turn with some music, and after a little persuasion, three young girls sang, or rather
chaunted, several plaintive, but somewhat monotonous airs.  Their voices, though neither strong
nor clear, were soft and melodious, like the cooing of their native wood-pigeons.  In vain
we asked for something livelier and more spirited.  Barton humming the tune of `Yankee Doodle,'
to make them the better understand what we wanted.  All their melodies seemed to be of a slow
and measured character, and those specimens which we heard, embraced a comparatively narrow
range of notes.

"Just as the native girls finished singing, we were joined by a fresh party of eight or ten
men, who came across the brook, and mingled with the others.  I heard Barton say to Rokoa,
`There is the old priest again,' but on looking around I could not see him.  The new-comers
did not appear to be in the same holiday humour as the throng around us; they walked gravely
about without joining in the general mirth and gaiety, and manifesting none of the curiosity
in regard to ourselves, which the others had evinced.  I, however, thought nothing of this
at the time, supposing that they had been of the number of those whom we had seen in the morning
by the sea-shore, although I did not recognise any of them.

"Presently, Olla and her companions commenced begging us for more music. One young lady in
particular, (the same who had pronounced us to be inhabitants of the moon), pressed Barton
with unceasing importunities, mingled with threats of a renewal of hostilities in case of non-compliance.
Finding all attempts at excuse or evasion utterly unavailing, he suddenly snatched a wreath
of yellow candle-nut-blossoms from the head of his tormentress, crowned himself therewith,
and springing upon the top of the rock, assumed an oratorical attitude, and waved his hand,
as if about to harangue the people.  Then, while I was wondering what was to come next, he
fixed his eye sternly upon a sinister looking man of middle-age, with the head-dress of an
inferior chief, who was standing directly in front of him, and began to declaim in Latin, with
great vehemence--`Quo usque tandem abutere, Catilina, patientia nostra,' etcetera, which the
audience seemed at first, to consider highly interesting and entertaining.  As he proceeded,
delivering the sounding sentences, `ore rotundo,' and emphasising each thundering polysyllable
with a fierce gesture of his clenched fist, I observed that the individual before mentioned,
whom the orator seemed to have chosen to represent Catiline, and who, without understanding
Latin, could very well perceive that there was something menacing and vituperative in the language
addressed to him, began to look at first puzzled, and then incensed.  He stole two or three
hurried and uncertain glances at those behind and immediately around him, as if to assure himself
whether this torrent of denunciation was not in fact directed against some other person; but
when all doubt on this point seemed to have been resolved by the unequivocal demonstrations
of the orator, his rigid features assumed an expression of such anger and ferocity, that I
began to fear some violent outbreak of passion, and made several attempts by signs and gestures,
to indicate to Barton the danger of pursuing so thoughtless and imprudent a pleasantry.  But
he either did not perceive my meaning, or else, felt rather flattered than alarmed, by the
effect which his elocution seemed to produce upon Catiline, for he continued to pour out upon
him the torrent of his oratory for several minutes longer, and it was not until his memory
began evidently to fail him, that he concluded with a last emphatic invective accompanied by
a sufficiently significant pantomime to convey some notion of its meaning, and bowing to his
audience, leaped from the rostrum.

"This performance, seemed to afford even greater pleasure to the male part of the assembly,
(with a few exceptions), than the previous musical entertainment had done, and they testified
their approbation, by emphatic nods and shouts of applause.

"I now thought it time to terminate our visit, and return to the boat, and was about to speak
to Rokoa on the subject, when Barton seized me by the arm, and pushed me towards the platform
of rock.

"`Now, Arthur, it is your turn,' said he, `you perceive what an effect my eloquence has produced
on old Catiline, there: give him a lecture upon the sinfulness of indulging the vindictive
passions, and exhort him to repentance.'

"The younger people pressed about me, and instigated and aided by Barton, they fairly forced
me upon the rocky platform.  Though by no means pleased at being obliged to take a part in
a farce so little to my taste, and for which I possessed none of Barton's talent, I saw plainly
that the shortest and least troublesome way, was to comply with their wishes, and I accordingly
endeavoured to recall some fragment of prose or verse which might serve the present purpose.
Supposing that English would be quite as intelligible and acceptable to them as Barton's Latin,
I was just about to declaim those noble opening lines of Comus--

  "`Before the starry threshold of Jove's Court,' etcetera.

"Which used to be a favourite of mine at school, when suddenly another impulse seized me.

"As I glanced around upon the circle of smiling, upturned countenances, I was struck by the
docile and childlike expression of many of them.  I thought of the sad and benighted condition
of this simple people, without the knowledge of God, or the hope of immortality, given up,
as it seemed, a helpless prey to the darkest and most cruel superstitions. I thought of the
moss-grown marae in the dark wood, with its hideous idols, its piles of human bones, and its
hoary priest--fit minister of such a religion.  I remembered the aged woman at Mowno's house,
and the frightful doom in reserve for her.  I felt that perhaps to such impressible spirits,
even a passing word, unskilfully and feebly spoken, might by God's blessing do good; and yielding
to the impulse of the moment, instead of declaiming the verses from Comus, I began to speak
to them in their own language, of those great truths, the most momentous for civilised or savage
man to know, and the most deeply interesting to every thoughtful mind, of whatever degree of
culture--truths so simple, that even these untutored children of nature could receive, and
be made happy by them.

"In the plainest and simplest language I could command, and striving to adapt myself to their
habits of thought, and to use those forms of expression most familiar to them, I announced
the great doctrine of the existence of one God, the sole creator of the world, and the loving
Father of all his creatures.  I spoke of his power and his goodness, and told them that though
invisible to our eyes, as the wind which stirred the tops of the palm-trees above them, he
was ever near each one of us, hearing our words, seeing our actions, reading our thoughts,
and caring for us continually.

"I endeavoured to illustrate these attributes of God, by references and allusions to the daily
aspects of nature around them, and to ideas and notions with which their mode of life, and
the system of superstition in which they had been trained, rendered them familiar.  My especial
aim was to lead them, unconsciously, as it were, and without making any direct attack upon
their religion, to contrast the benignant character of Him who has permitted us to call Him
`Our Father in Heaven,' with that of the malignant beings they had been taught to worship.

"I next spoke of death, and of a future life, and assured them that the friends whom they had
buried, and they themselves, and all who had ever lived, should awake as from a brief sleep,
and live again for ever.  But when I proceeded to declare that most awful and mysterious doctrine
of our religion, and spoke of the worm that dieth not and the fire that is not quenched, of
eternal happiness, and unending woe, I could see by the earnestness of their attention, and
the expression of their countenances, how powerfully they were impressed.

"I cannot remember all that I said, or the language I used, but I endeavoured to set before
them in a shape adapted to their comprehension, the simple elements of the Christian scheme--the
great doctrines of God and immortality, of human sinfulness and accountability, and of salvation
through Jesus Christ.  But encouraged by the attention and apparent interest of the silent
and listening circle, in the glow of the moment, I went beyond this prescribed limit, and from
these vast general truths, I began at last to speak of particular acts and practices.  As I
thought once more of the marae in the forest, and of the unhappy Malola, I told the people
that our Father beyond the sky could alone hear their prayers, and should alone be worshipped;
that he desired no sacrifices of living things; that he was offended and displeased with all
cruelty and bloodshed; and that the offering of human sacrifices, and the killing of aged persons,
were crimes which he detested, and would be sure to punish; that he had expressly commanded
children to love and honour their parents, and that it was their duty, the older, the more
infirm and helpless they became, the more faithfully to cherish and protect them.  In speaking
on this subject, I grew earnest and excited, and probably my voice and manner too strongly
expressed the abhorrence I felt for such monstrous and unnatural crimes.

"At this point, Barton, who had for some time been looking on in astonishment at the serious
turn which the matter had so unexpectedly taken, interrupted me with the whispered caution--

"`Be careful, Arthur!  I fear from the black looks of one of your clerical fathers here, that
you are giving offence to the cloth, and trenching upon perilous ground.'

"But the warning came too late.  Just as I glanced round in search of the threatening looks,
to which Barton alluded, a frightful figure sprang up on the outer edge of the circle of listeners,
directly in front of me, and with cries of rage forced its way towards the spot where I stood.
I recognised at once the old priest of the marae, but how changed since I last saw him!  Every
sign of age and decrepitude had vanished: his misshapen frame seemed dilated, and instinct
with nervous energy: his face was pale with the intensity of his fury, and his small eyes flashed
fire.

"`Perish, reviler of Oro, and his priests!' he cried, and hurled at me a barbed spear, with
so true an aim, that if I had not stooped as it left his hand, it would have struck my face.
Whizzing over my head, it pierced the tough bark of a bread-fruit tree, ten yards behind me,
where it stood quivering.  Instantly catching a club from the hands of a bystander, he rushed
forward to renew the attack.  He had reached the foot of the rock where I stood, when Rokoa
with a bound placed himself between us, and though without any weapon, motioned him back, with
a gesture so commanding, and an air at once so quiet, and so fearless, that the priest paused.
But it was for an instant only; then, without uttering a word, he aimed a blow full at Rokoa's
head.  The latter caught it in his open palm, wrenched the weapon from him, and, adroitly foiling
a furious attempt which he made to grapple with him, once more stood upon the defensive with
an unruffled aspect and not the slightest appearance of excitement in his manner.

"The baffled priest, livid with rage, looked round for another weapon. Half a dozen of the
men who had arrived upon the ground with him, uttered a wild yell, and pressed forward with
brandished clubs and spears.  Barton and I, placed ourselves by Rokoa's side, the former handing
me one of his pistols.  All was tumult and confusion.  The outbreak had been so sudden and
unexpected, and what I have just related had passed so rapidly, that the bystanders had not
yet recovered from the first shock of astonishment and terror.  Of the women, some shrieked
and fled from the spot, others threw themselves between us and the armed natives, or invoked
the interference of their brothers and friends for our protection.  Only a few, even of the
men, seemed to participate in the feeling of hostility against us.

"But however inferior in number, the party of our foes far surpassed that of our friends in
resolution and energy.  Foremost among them were the priest and the hard-featured chief, who
had been so deeply incensed by what he regarded as the wanton insults offered him by Barton.
A number of the young men also, whose anger and jealousy had been aroused by his sudden popularity,
and the attention which had been paid us, sided zealously with the priest and his party, and
joined in the clamour against us.

"Meanwhile, Mowno, at Olla's entreaty, strove to calm the tumult, and to pacify the leader
and instigator of it; but his authority was fiercely spurned, and our good-natured protector
quailed before the fury of the vindictive old man.  As yet, however, our enemies, conscious
that the sympathies of a large number of the bystanders were with us, had offered us no actual
violence, confining themselves to menacing cries and gestures, by which they seemed to be striving
to work themselves up to the requisite pitch of excitement.  This was likely to be speedily
attained under the influence of the fierce exhortations and contagious fury of the priest.
Some of the young men, in fact, now commenced a sort of covert attack, by throwing stones and
fragments of wood at us from the outskirts of the crowd, and Barton was struck violently in
the mouth by one of these missiles, by which his lip was badly cut.  In the midst of all the
excitement and tumult, Rokoa stood, with the outward appearance at least, of perfect composure.
Neither the ravings of the priest, nor the menacing attitude of `Catiline,' nor the brandished
weapons of their followers, deprived him of his coolness and presence of mind.  He steadily
confronted them with an unblenching eye, grasping the club of which he had possessed himself,
in readiness to meet the attack, which he at the same time did nothing, by look or gesture,
to provoke. His calm intrepidity, while it seemed temporarily to restrain our enemies, served
also to reassure and steady Barton and myself; and endeavouring to emulate his self-possession,
we stood ready to act as circumstances should indicate, looking to him for the example."

Here Arthur paused, as if about to suspend his narrative.  Johnny, who was now broad awake,
and listening eagerly, waited patiently a few moments, expecting him to recommence.  Finding,
however, that he did not do so, he at length asked him to "go on."

"It is getting quite late," answered Arthur; "see, those three bright stars which were high
in the heavens when we first sat down here, are now on the very edge of the horizon, about
to sink behind the ocean.  As we expect to be up, and on our way to Castle-hill before sunrise
to-morrow.  I think we should now go to rest."

"If we do," replied Johnny, "I am sure I shall not be able to sleep; I shall be thinking of
that terrible old priest, and trying to guess how you escaped at last."

"I judge," said Browne, "that you are pretty nearly at the end of your adventures in Angatan,
so pray let us have the remainder now."

"Do so," added Morton, "and set Johnny's mind at rest, or he will be dreaming of cannibals
and cannibal-priests all night, and disturbing us by crying out in his sleep."

"I think it's quite likely," said Johnny, shaking his head in a threatening manner; "I feel
just now very much as if I should."

"Since that is the case," said Arthur, "I suppose I must `go on,' in self-defence; and as I
believe that twenty minutes will suffice for what remains, I will finish it."

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE.

THE FLIGHT.

TE VEA--THE VICTIM FOR SACRIFICE--THE ESCAPE AND PURSUIT--THE PRIEST'S AMBUSH.

  "For life, for life, their flight they ply,
  And shriek, and shout, and battle-cry,
  And weapons waving to the sky,
  Are maddening in their rear."

"While the party hostile to us, thus stood hesitating, but to all appearance rapidly approaching
a point where all hesitation would cease, Olla, with tears streaming down her cheeks, besought
us to fly to her husband's house, where, she seemed to imagine, we should necessarily be safe
from violence.  But though no one yet laid hands on us, we were surrounded on all sides, and
could not with any certainty distinguish friends from foes; and the first movement on our part
to escape, would probably be the signal for an instant and general attack by the priest and
his followers.  We thought, therefore, that our best hope of safety lay in maintaining a firm
but quiet attitude, until Mowno, and those disposed to protect us, could make their influence
felt in our behalf. They, however, confined their efforts to feeble expostulations and entreaties;
and perhaps it was unreasonable to expect them to engage in a deadly conflict with their own
neighbours, relatives, and personal friends, in the defence of mere strangers like ourselves.
They could not even restrain the younger and more violent portion of the rabble from carrying
on the species of desultory warfare, from which Barton had already suffered; on the contrary,
the stones and other missiles, thrown by persons on the outskirts of the crowd, fell continually
thicker and faster.  At length Rokoa received a staggering blow on the back of the head, from
a clod of earth, thrown by some one who had stolen round behind the rock for that purpose,
and who immediately afterwards disappeared in the throng.

"`How much longer are we to endure this?' cried Barton.  `Must we stand here and suffer ourselves
to be murdered by these cowardly attacks?  Let us shoot a couple of them, and make a rush for
the shore.'

"But a moment's reflection was enough to show the utter hopelessness of such an attempt.  However
much the natives might be astounded for an instant by the discharge of fire-arms, all fear
and hesitation would vanish upon our taking to flight.  Our backs once turned would be the
mark for a score of ready spears; and except perhaps for Rokoa, whose speed was extraordinary,
there would be scarcely the possibility for escape.  Still it was evident that the audacity
of our enemies was steadily increasing, though their attacks were as yet covert and indirect,
and, as I knew that Rokoa would not hesitate to retaliate upon the first open assailant, in
which case we should be massacred upon the spot, we might soon be compelled to adopt even so
desperate a suggestion, as the only alternative of instant death.

"At this critical moment, I noticed a sudden movement of surprise or alarm, on the outskirts
of the crowd.  A group, directly in front of us, no longer giving us their exclusive attention,
began to whisper among themselves, glancing and pointing towards the rising ground in our rear,
while a half suppressed and shuddering exclamation of `Te Vea!  Te Vea!' was heard among the
people.  Turning round, and looking where all eyes were now directed, I saw a tall native,
with a peculiar head-dress of feathers, and a small basket of cocoa-nut-leaflets in his hand,
running rapidly towards us.  His appearance seemed to awaken in those around us, emotions of
terror or aversion, strong enough to swallow up every other feeling, for, no sooner was he
perceived, than all thought of prosecuting further the present quarrel, appeared to be abandoned.
The priest, alone, evinced none of the general uneasiness or dread, but, on the contrary, a
gleam of exultation lighted up his hard and discoloured countenance.  The people made way to
the right and left, as the new-comer drew near, and a number of them slunk away into the forest
or to their homes.  The stranger proceeded directly towards Mowno, and taking a small parcel
wrapped in leaves, from the basket which he carried, delivered it to him: then, without pausing
an instant, or uttering a word, he passed on, taking his way at a rapid pace straight through
the village.  Mowno received the parcel with a reluctant and gloomy air, though it seemed to
consist of nothing but a rough stone, wrapped in the leaves of the sacred miro.  For several
minutes he stood holding it in his hand, like one deprived of consciousness.  Several of those
who appeared to be the principal persons present, among whom were Catiline and the priest,
now approached him, and they began to hold a whispered consultation, in the course of which
the priest frequently pointed towards Rokoa, as though speaking of him.  Mowno seemed to be
resisting some proposal urged by the others, and spoke in a more decisive and resolute manner
than I had thought him capable of assuming. The discussion, whatever was its subject, soon
became warm and angry: the voices of Catiline and the priest were raised, and even threatening.
Every moment I expected to see Mowno relinquish his opposition; but he remained firm, and at
last, with the air of one resolved to put an end to further debate, he said--

"`No! it shall not be either of the strangers; it shall be Terano: he is an evil man, and it
will be well when he is gone.'  Then speaking to two of those who stood near him, he said,
`Go quickly to Terano's house, before he sees the messenger and hides himself in the mountains,'
whereupon they seized their spears, and immediately set off in the direction of the village.

"Olla now renewed her entreaties for us to leave the spot, and go with her to the house; and
Mowno,--by a quick gesture, meant to be seen only by us, indicated his wish to the same effect.
Rokoa nodded to me to comply, and we followed Olla as she bounded lightly through the grove,
no one offering to oppose our departure.  But the priest's restless eye was upon us, and had
we set off in the direction of the shore, we should not have been permitted to escape, without
an attempt on his part to prevent it.  As it was, he appeared to give some direction to those
about him, and four or five young men followed us at a distance, keeping us in sight, and taking
care that they were always in such a position as to enable them to intercept us in any attempt
to recross the island. After having dogged us to Mowno's house and seen us enter, they withdrew
into the forest out of sight, where they probably remained on the watch. Rokoa now proceeded
to select from Mowno's store of weapons, a club, of more formidable weight and size, than that
which he had wrested from the priest, and requested Barton and myself to follow his example.

"`We must try to get to the shore,' he said, `there are at present, none to hinder us, but
the young men who followed us hither.'

"`But that demon of a priest, and the rest of his crew, are not far-off,' said Barton, `and
they will be sure to waylay us.  For the present we are safe here; and perhaps Mowno will be
able to get us back to our boat without danger.'

"Rokoa shook his head.  `There are others here,' he said, `more powerful than Mowno, and who
are our enemies: we must rely upon ourselves.'

"Olla watched us anxiously during this conversation; and now, as if she understood its subject
at least, she said, with an expression of intelligence and cordial friendliness in her fine
eyes, `Listen to me: the words of the priest are more powerful with the great chief than the
words of Mowno: to-night, the priest will go to the great chief, and before he returns you
must fly; but not now, for you are watched by the young men; you must wait until night--until
the moon is behind the grove.'

"This seemed to me a wiser course than to undertake, at present, to fight our way to the boat;
but Rokoa remained of his former opinion; he apprehended an attack upon our party at the shore
during our absence, by which we might be cut off from all means of leaving the island.  This
certainly was a weighty consideration, and one that had not occurred to me.  We were still
hesitating, and uncertain what course to pursue, when Mowno came in, looking much troubled,
and carrying in his hand the mysterious package, the object and meaning of which I forgot to
explain.

"A stone, folded in the leaves of the miro, sent by the king, or paramount chief, to the subordinate
chiefs of districts or villages, is the customary method of notifying the latter that they
are expected to furnish a human victim for some approaching sacrifice.  The principal occasions
upon which these are required, are at the building of national maraes, at the commencement
of a war, or in cases of the serious illness of a superior chief.  The number of victims sacrificed,
is proportioned to the magnitude of the occasion; as many as a score have sometimes been offered
to propitiate the gods during the severe sickness of a powerful chief.  The priests signify
to the chief the number required; the latter then sends out his runner or messenger, (te vea),
who delivers to each of the subordinate chiefs, one of these packages for each victim to be
furnished from his immediate district.  The odious duty of designating the individuals to be
taken, then devolves upon the subordinate, and having decided upon this, he sends a number
of armed men to secure the destined victims before they secrete themselves or flee into the
woods, as those who have any reason to fear being selected generally do, at the first appearance
of the dreaded messenger, or even as soon as it is publicly known that an occasion is at hand
for which human sacrifices will be required.  When secured, the doomed persons are most commonly
killed on the spot by the chief's men, and the bodies wrapped in cocoa-nut leaves and carried
to the temple.  Sometimes, however, they are preserved alive, and slain by the priests themselves
at the altar.

"Upon the arrival of the messenger, as already related, with a requisition for one victim from
the village, the majority of Mowno's advisers had insisted upon selecting Rokoa for that purpose,
and thus avoiding the necessity of sacrificing one of their own people.  The priest had gone
further still, and proposed to seize upon us all, and send Barton and myself to the two neighbouring
villages, to be furnished by them as their quota of victims.  To these councils, Mowno had
opposed a determined resistance, and he had finally sent his followers to despatch an old man
named Terano, whose death would be considered a general benefit, as he was a notorious and
inveterate thief and drunkard, who, when not stupefied with ava, was constantly engaged in
desperate broils, or wanton depredations upon the property of his neighbours.  It seemed, however,
that the old man had taken the alarm and fled; several of Mowno's followers were now in pursuit
of him, and unless they should succeed in taking him before morning, another person would have
to be designated, as it was required to furnish the victims at the great marae, by noon of
the following day.

"I sickened with disgust, as I listened to details like these.  Never before had I so fully
realised the darkness and the horrors of heathenism--all the more striking in the present instance,
because of the many pleasing and amiable natural qualities of the people who groped amid much
darkness, and were a prey to such horrors.

"Mowno also recommended us to postpone any attempt at flight until a late hour of the night.
He said that he had seen a number of men lurking in the woods near the stream, and that the
priest and others had remained in the grove after he had left, probably with the intention
of joining them in watching the house.

"Olla now went out into the garden, where she walked about looking up among the branches of
the tree; and calling out, `Lai-evi!' as if in search of her tame wood-pigeon.  After going
round the garden, she passed out of the gate, and wandered away in the direction of the brook,
still looking among the trees, and repeating at intervals her call of `Lai-evi!'

"By-and-bye she returned, and though without her little favourite, she had accomplished her
real object, and ascertained the number and position of the spies.  She had seen seven of them
skulking in the wood along the brook, and watching the house.  They seemed anxious to avoid
observation, and she could not, without awaking suspicion, get more than transient glimpses
of them, so that possibly there might be others whom she had not seen.

"Rokoa questioned her as to the space along the bank of the stream occupied by these men, and
the distance from one another at which they were stationed.  Then after a moment's reflection
he turned to Mowno, and asked whether he was confident of being able to protect us, while in
his house; to which the latter replied with much earnestness that he both could and would do so.

"`Wait here, then,' said Rokoa, addressing Barton and myself, `I will return before the moon
sets:' and without affording us an opportunity to inquire what he designed to do, he passed
through the door, and bounded into the forest, in the direction opposite to that where the
spies of the priest were lurking.

"`Is it possible,' said Barton, `that he intends to desert us?'

"`You should know him better,' I answered, `unless I am mistaken, he is about to risk his life
in an attempt to communicate with our crew, in order to put them on their guard against a surprise,
and to render our escape the more easy.  If he lives, he will return, to incur a second time
with us, the very dangers to which this attempt exposes him.'

"Knowing as I did Rokoa's great activity, coolness, and presence of mind, I was sanguine that
he would succeed in eluding the vigilance of our enemies, and accomplishing his purpose.

"Soon after his departure, Olla set out for our evening meal a light repast of bananas, baked
bread-fruit, and vi-apples, fresh from the garden.  But neither Barton nor I could eat anything:
our thoughts were with Rokoa upon his perilous adventure.  When the food had been removed,
Mowno suggested that we should all go out into the inclosure, and walk a few times around the
house in order that those who were on the watch might be satisfied that we were still there.
This we accordingly did, and continued strolling through the garden until it became quite dark.
Rokoa had now been gone nearly an hour, and Barton began to grow restless and troubled.  Mowno,
stationing himself at the end of the walk leading from the house, leaned upon the gate in a
listening attitude. As I sat in the wide doorway, beneath the vi-apple trees planted on either
side of the entrance, watching the bright constellation of the Cross, just visible above the
outline of the grove in the southern horizon, Olla began to question me concerning what I had
told the people in the afternoon, of God, and a future life, and the doctrines of Christianity.
I was at once touched and astonished, to perceive the deep interest she took in the subject,
and the readiness with which she received these truths, as something she had needed and longed
for.  She seemed to feel how much better and more consoling they were, than the superstitions
in which she had been educated.

"I was amazed to find that this young heathen woman, growing up in the midst of pagan darkness,
was nevertheless possessed of deep and strong religious feelings, which could not be satisfied
with the traditions of her people.  As I gazed at her ingenuous countenance, full of earnestness
and sensibility, while she endeavoured to express the vague thoughts on these subjects which
had at times floated through her mind, I could scarcely believe that this was the same gay
and careless being, whose life had seemed to be as natural, as unconscious, and as joyous,
as that of a bird or a flower.  She said, that often when alone in some secluded spot in the
depth of the wood, while all around was so hushed and peaceful, she had suddenly burst into
tears, feeling that what she had been taught of the gods could not be true, and that if Oro
was indeed the creator of so beautiful a world--if he had made the smiling groves, the bright
flowers, and the multitude of happy living things, he must be a good being, who could not delight
in the cruelties practised in his name.  Often, when a mere girl, thoughts like these had visited
her, wandering by the sea-shore at twilight, or looking up through the foliage of waving cocoa-nut-groves
at the starry skies, when nature herself, by her harmony and beauty, had seemed to proclaim
that God was a being of light and love, in whom was no darkness at all!

"Presently Mowno joined us, and I talked with him in regard to the intended burial of the aged
woman, his aunt and endeavoured to make him see the act in its true light.  But with all his
natural amiability, such was the effect of custom and education, that he seemed perfectly insensible
on the subject.  He observed, in a cool, matter-of-fact manner, that when people got very old
and could not work, they were of no use to others or themselves--that it was then time for
them to die, and much best that they should do so at once; and that if they did not, then their
friends ought to bury them.  As to Malola, his aunt, he said that she was quite willing to
be buried, and had in fact suggested it herself; that she was often very sick, and in great
pain, so that she had no pleasure in living any longer; he added, as another grave and weighty
consideration, that she had lost most of her teeth, and could not chew her food, unless it
was prepared differently from that of the rest of the family, which caused Olla much trouble.

"Finding that argument and expostulation had not the slightest effect upon him, I changed my
tactics, and suddenly demanded whether he would be willing to have Olla buried, when she began
to get old and infirm? This seemed at first to startle him.  He glanced uneasily at his little
wife, as if it had never before occurred to him that she could grow old.  Then, after staring
at me a moment in a half angry manner, as though offended at my having suggested so disagreeable
an idea, he seemed all at once to recover himself, remarking quickly, that he should be old
then, too, and that they could both be buried together. This consolatory reflection seemed
completely to neutralise the effect of my last attack, and Mowno's countenance resumed its
habitual expression of calm and somewhat stolid placidity.

"Baffled, but not discouraged, I next strove, by drawing an imaginary picture of Olla and himself
in their old age, surrounded by their grown up children, to show how happy and beautiful the
relation between the child and the aged parent might be.  I summoned up all my rhetorical powers,
and sketched what I conceived to be a perfect model of an affectionate and dutiful Angatanese
son.  After clothing him with all the virtues and accomplishments of the savage character,
I proceeded to endue him with that filial affection, whose beauty and power it was my chief
object to illustrate.  I represented him as loving his father and mother all the more tenderly
on account of the infirmities of age now stealing over them.  Upon the arm of this affectionate
son, the white-haired Mowno supported himself; when at morning and evening he went forth to
take his accustomed walk in the groves.  He it was, who brought home daily to his aged mother,
the ripest fruits, and the freshest flowers.  His smiling and happy countenance was the light
of their dwelling; his cheerful voice, its sweetest music.  I was proceeding thus in quite
an affecting strain, as it seemed to me, (though I must in honesty confess that Mowno appeared
to be less moved by it than myself; and somewhat cooled my enthusiasm by giving a great yawn
in the midst of one of the most touching passages), when Olla, who had been listening with
moistened eyes, gently stole her arm around her husband's neck, and murmured a few words in
his ear.  Whether it was my pathetic eloquence, or Olla's caress, that melted his hitherto
obdurate heart, I will not pretend to say, but it is certain that he now yielded the point,
and promised that Malola should be permitted to live.  `At least,' he added, after a moment's
reflection, `as long as she can see, and walk about.'

"Several times, since it had grown dark, I had heard sounds like the distant beating of drums,
mingled occasionally with the long and sorrowful note of the buccinum-shell, or native trumpet.
Twice, also, while Mowno was standing at his gate, messengers had arrived, apparently in haste,
and after briefly conferring with him, had posted off again. When I remarked upon these sounds,
Mowno said that they came from the marae, where preparations for the approaching ceremony were
going forward; but to me, they seemed to proceed from several different points, at various
distances from us.

"I now began to feel painfully anxious at Rokoa's protracted absence. It was nearly midnight,
and there had been ample time for one less active than he, to go to the shore and return. 
The terrible apprehension, that in spite of all the resources of his skill and courage, he
had fallen into the hands of some of the parties of natives which seemed to be scattered about
in the forest, gained every moment a stronger hold upon my mind.

"`He has either been taken, or else he finds that he cannot rejoin us, without too great risk,'
said Barton, breaking a long silence, and speaking of that which each knew the other to be
thinking about; `we must start for the shore ourselves, if he does not come soon.'

"`Hark!' whispered Olla, `some one is approaching from the wood.'  Her quick ear had detected
stealthy steps crossing the avenue.  The next moment some one bounded lightly over the hedge
at the side of the house, where the shadow of the bread-fruit trees fell darkest.  Mowno started,
and seemed agitated, and for an instant a suspicion that he had betrayed us, and was about
to give us up, flashed through my mind.  But the figure which came forward into the light,
was that of Rokoa, and I felt pained at the wrong which my momentary doubts had done our inert,
but well-meaning, host.  Rokoa breathed quick and short.  Without speaking, he pointed to the
moon, now on the edge of the western horizon of forest, to intimate that he was punctual to
the time set for his return.

"The sounds which I had before heard, were now borne more plainly than ever to our ears upon
the night breeze.  As soon as Rokoa recovered his breath, he said that we had not a moment
to lose, but must commence our flight at once.  He had passed an armed party of more than twenty
men, coming in the direction of the house, with the purpose, as he supposed, of demanding that
we should be given up to them.  Mowno seemed more displeased than alarmed at this intelligence,
and earnestly repeated that no harm should befall us while beneath his roof, if he had to lay
down his life in our defence.  But Rokoa urged our immediate departure, before the arrival
of the party which he had seen.  Mowno then offered to accompany, and guide us to our boat,
which Rokoa firmly declined, on the ground that his presence might endanger him, and, in the
excited and determined mood of our enemies, could be no protection to us.

"We accordingly took a hurried leave of him, and Olla.  `Good-bye, Artua,' said the latter,
`Olla will not forget what you have told her of our great Father in the sky; she will ask him
for a new heart that she too, may go when she dies, to the Christian heaven,' and she pointed
upward, while a happy smile lighted up her intelligent, and, for the moment, serious countenance.

"We sprang over the hedge, and, Rokoa leading the way, proceeded swiftly but silently down
the avenue.  We passed some distance beyond the point where we had struck into it in the morning,
to avoid the neighbourhood of the village, then turning towards the shore, descended into the
valley until we reached the stream.  At this point, it was deep and narrow, with a rapid current,
but we had no time to look for a ford. Cries and shouts on the hill above us, showed that we
were pursued, and a confused clamour from the village indicated the existence of some unusual
commotion there.  Tum-tums were beating fiercely, and the long dismal wail of the tuba-conch
resounded through the echoing arches of the forest.  We swam the stream as silently as possible,
Barton holding his pistols above his head in one hand to keep the charges dry.  As we climbed
the further bank, and plunged into the wood of miros, we could hear the splashing of the water
caused by persons fording the brook a short distance below us, and opposite the village.  In
the same direction a multitude of candle-nut torches gleamed through the foliage, and revealed
dusky forms hurrying hither and thither.  We pushed on through the wood at the top of our speed,
until suddenly the outlines of the marae, illuminated by the glare of a large bonfire, loomed
up before us.  A score of half-naked men, were dancing around the fire in front of the inclosure,
with the wildest and most extravagant contortions of body.  Seen by the fitful and wavering
light, their painted countenances scarcely looked like those of human beings, and the grim,
immovable idols, upon their pedestals, seemed vaster and more hideous than ever.

"As we turned, and plunged into the grove again, resuming our flight in a somewhat altered
direction, an eager shout announced that we had been seen.  But this cry proceeded, not from
the group in front of the marae, who were wholly absorbed in their savage orgies, but from
a straggling party of pursuers from the village, to whom the light of the bonfire had betrayed
us.  The chase was now no longer random or uncertain; they came on like hounds in full view
of the game, uttering yells that caused the blood to curdle in my veins.  My strength began
to fail, and I felt a horrible spell creeping over me, like that which often in dreams, deprives
us of the power to fly some appalling danger.  Rokoa restrained his superior speed, and kept
beside Barton and myself.  `Courage, Artua!' he said, `we are near the shore,' and he offered
me his hand to assist me, but I would not take it.  Notwithstanding our utmost exertions our
pursuers gained upon us.  I was very nearly exhausted when we reached the ravine which divided
the miro-grove from the bread-fruit plantation, and, as we struggled up its steep side, Barton
panted and gasped so painfully for breath, that I dreaded each moment to see him fall to the
ground incapable of proceeding further.  But we knew that our lives were at stake, and forced
ourselves to exertions which nature could not long support; still, the cries of our pursuers,
the sound of their footsteps, and the crashing of branches in their path, drew continually nearer.

"At last we had nearly traversed the breadth of the plantation, and the welcome sound of the
waves, breaking upon the beach, greeted our ears. Safety now seemed within our reach, and we
summoned all our remaining energies for a final effort.  The trees, growing more thinly as
we approached the skirt of the wood, let in the light, and between their trunks I caught a
glimpse of the sea.  Right before us was a thicket, tangled with fern, and scarcely twenty
yards beyond it lay the beach shining in the star-light.  As we turned a little aside to avoid
the thicket, an appalling yell rang out from it, and half a dozen dark figures started from
their ambush, and sprang into the path before us. The old priest was at their head: my heart
sank, and I gave up all as host.  Rokoa, swinging up his ponderous club, bounded into their
midst. `Onward!' cried he, `it is our only hope of escape.'  His movements were light as those
of a bird, and rapid as lightning.  His first blow stretched the priest at his feet.  The savages
gave way before him, scattering to the right and left, as if a thunderbolt had fallen among
them.  Barton discharged both his pistols at once, and with fatal effect, as was witnessed
by the groans that followed.  Before they could rally or recover themselves, we had burst through
their midst.  As we reached the shore, I looked round and missed Barton--he was no longer beside
me.  An exulting cry behind us at once explained his absence: at the same time we could hear
him call out in a voice broken by exhaustion, `Save yourselves, you can do nothing for me!'
Without an instant's hesitation, Rokoa turned, and we rushed back into the midst of our shouting
enemies.  Three or four of the party which had been in pursuit of us, were just coming up.
The audacity and desperation of our attack seemed to confound them, and two of their number
fell, almost without a struggle, beneath Rokoa's rapid and resistless blows.  Two more of them,
who were dragging Barton away, were compelled to leave him at liberty in order to defend themselves.
At that moment a sudden shout from the water raised by our crew, who had either heard our voices,
or seen us when we came out upon the shore, increased their panic by causing them to suppose
that we were leading back our whole party to the fight.  They hastily gave way before us, and
we had all turned once more, and gained the beach before they recovered from their surprise,
and perceived their mistake.

"Our boat was just outside the surf; where the crew were keeping her steady with their paddles.
We hailed them, and plunged in the water to swim out to them.  The natives, stung with shame
and rage at having their prisoner torn from them in the very moment of triumph, with such reckless
boldness, swarmed down to the beach and pursued us into the water.  They seemed excited almost
to frenzy at the prospect of our escape.  Some standing upon the shore assailed the canoe with
showers of stones, by which several of our men were wounded.  Others swam out after us, as
if about to endeavour to board the vessel, and did not turn back until we had hoisted our sail,
and began to draw steadily from the land.

"And thus ends the story of the Cannibal Island of Angatan."

"Is that all?" inquired Johnny, looking somewhat disappointed.

"Yes, that is all," answered Arthur, "it comes as near to being a cannibal story, as any thing
I know.  I did not see any one actually roasted and eaten, but if the savages had caught us,
I suspect there would have been more to tell, and probably no one here to tell it."

"But," persisted Johnny, "the story don't end there.  You haven't told us about the rest of
the voyage, and whether Rokoa found his brother at last."

"O, that don't properly belong to this story.  According to all artistical rules I ought to
end precisely where I have, in order to preserve the unities.  But some other time, if you
wish, I will tell you all about it."

"Pray don't talk of artistical rules," exclaimed Max, "after showing yourself such an egregious
bungler!  You had there all the elements of a capital story, and you have just spoiled them."

"`How prove you that, in the great heap of your knowledge,'" cried Browne, "`come now, unmuzzle
your wisdom,' and specify the blunders of which he has been guilty.  I say, with Touchstone,
`instance briefly, shepherd; come, instance.'"

"Why, in the first place, there was a miserly spirit of economy in regard to his men.  He should
have invested the narrative with a tragic interest, by killing Rokoa and Barton, at least;--being
the narrator he couldn't kill himself conveniently;--but he might, with good effect have been
`dangerously wounded.'"

"But suppose," said Arthur, "that I wanted Rokoa to figure in a future story, and so couldn't
afford to kill him just yet?"

"A miserable apology! it evinces a lamentable poverty of imagination to make one character
serve for two distinct tales."

"Well, a further instance, `gentle shepherd,'" cried Browne, "`a more sounder instance.'"

"Then, again," resumed Max, with an oracular air, "it was a capital error to make Olla a married
woman; what business I should like to know, can a married woman have in a story?--She belongs
properly to the dull prosaic region of common life--not to the fairy land of romance.  Now
the charm of sentiment is as necessary to a perfect tale, as the interest of adventure, or
the excitement of conflict, and had Olla been single, there would have been the elements of
something beautifully sentimental."

"Enough!" cried Browne, "if you have not `lamed me with reasons,' you have at least overwhelmed
me with words--there now!  I believe I am unconsciously catching the trick of your long-winded
sing-song sentences--it must be contagious."

"Well," said Arthur, "I give over the `materials' to Max, with full permission to work them
up into a romance after his own fashion, introducing as much slaughter and sentiment as he
shall judge requisite for the best effect, and when completed, it shall be inserted by way
of episode in our narrative."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note.  Upon consulting the charts we find an island called "Ahangatan", (of which Angatan is
perhaps a contraction), laid down on some of them, about one hundred and fifty miles north
of Hao.  On others the same island is called Ahangatoff.  The US Exploring Expedition visited
Hae, and most of the neighbouring islands, but we have not been able to discover any mention
of Angatan in the published records of the expedition.

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR.

HOUSE-BUILDING.

DAWN ON THE LAGOON--THE "SEA-ATTORNEY"--THE "SHARK-EXTERMINATOR"--MAX "CARRIES THE WAR INTO
AFRICA."

  "Another hour must pass ere day grows bright,
  And ere the little birds begin discourse
  In quick low voices, ere the streaming light
  Pours on their nests, just sprung from day's fresh source."

After the late hours we had kept on the last evening, most of us would willingly have prolonged
our slumbers beyond the time previously fixed for setting out upon our return to Castle-hill.
But before it was fairly light, Arthur was up, with an unseasonable and provoking alacrity,
calling loudly upon us to bestir ourselves.

In vain Browne apostrophised him in moving strains as "the rude disturber of his pillow," remonstrated
against such unmerciful punctuality, and petitioned for another nap; in vain Max protested
that we were not New York shop-boys, obliged to rise at daylight to make fires, and open and
sweep out stores, but free and independent desert islanders, who had escaped from the bondage
of civilised life, and the shackles of slavish routine, and who need not get up until noon,
unless of our own good pleasure.  Arthur was inexorable, and finding that further sleep was
out of the question, we yielded at last to his despotic pertinacity, and groped our way into
the boat, yawning desperately, and not more than half awake.

The sea-fowl had not yet begun to stir in their nests, when we pushed out into the lagoon,
and commenced pulling homeward--as we had now almost come to regard it--holding a course midway
between the reef and the shore.  A few moments' exercise at the oars sufficed to dispel our
drowsiness, and to reconcile us somewhat to the early start, which we had so reluctantly taken.

The faint grey light revealed the sleeping landscape, invested with the delicious freshness
and repose of the earliest dawn in summer.  The shores of the island, with their dense masses
of verdure, were so perfectly mirrored in the lagoon, that the peculiar characteristics of
the different kinds of foliage could be distinguished in their reflections.  The drooping plumes
of the palms, the lance-shaped pandanus leaves, and the delicate, filmy foliage of the casuarina,
were all accurately imaged there; the inverted shore below, with its fringe of trees and shrubbery,
looking scarcely less substantial and real, than its counterpart above.  But as the light increased,
these reflections lost their softness, and the clearness of their outlines.  The gradually
brightening dawn, cast new and rapidly changing lights and shades upon the waters and the shores;
and the latter, which, as we moved onward, we beheld every moment from a new point of view,
charmed the eye with a perpetual variety.  In some places they were abrupt and bold; in others
smoothly rounded, or gently sloping.  Now we were opposite a jutting promontory, which, crowned
with verdure, and overgrown with pendulous and creeping plants, pushed out over the narrow
alluvial belt of shore, to the water's edge; now shooting past it, we caught a sudden and transient
glimpse of some cool valley, opening down to the lagoon, and stretching away inland through
vistas of fine trees.

Johnny expressed a fervent wish that he was a painter, in order that we might sail round the
island, take sketches of the scenery, and then paint a panorama, embracing all the best views,
by exhibiting which at twenty-five cents a head, we should all make our fortunes upon getting
home.  He appeared to have some doubts, however, whether that particular time of day could
be painted, even by the most accomplished artist.  The lagoon channel wound through fields
of branching coral trees of luxuriant growth, among which, numbers of large fish were moving
sluggishly about, as if they had got up too early, and were more than half inclined to indulge
in another nap.  As we passed over a sort of bar, where there was not more than a fathom and
a half of water, we espied an immense green turtle at the bottom, quietly pursuing his way
across our track, and though by no means a beautiful creature, looking infinitely happier and
more lively than the dull-eyed wretches of his race, which I have seen lying on their backs,
at the doors of the New York restaurants, ready to be converted into soup and steaks.  Johnny
mourned over the impracticability of making any attempt at his capture, and heaved a sigh which
seemed to come from the bottom of his heart, as the unsightly reptile disappeared among the
mazes of the submarine shrubbery.  The hardship of the case, seemed to be greatly aggravated
in his eyes, as he contrasted it with the better fortune of Robinson Crusoe and the Swiss Family,
the former of whom, as he reminded us, caught "any quantity of turtles" on the beach of his
island, with no other trouble than that of turning them over upon their backs; while the latter,
having surprised an enormous fellow taking an afternoon nap on the surface of the water, treacherously
harpooned him in his sleep, and then, steering him as easily as one would drive a well-broken
nag, compelled him to tow themselves and their pinnace ashore.

A somewhat startling incident put an end to these interesting reminiscences.  Johnny was leaning
over the gunwale, and with his face almost touching the surface, and his hands playing in the
water, was peering down into the lagoon, probably on the look-out for another turtle, when
a large shark, coming as it seemed from beneath the boat, rose suddenly but quietly, and made
a snatch at him.  Johnny saw the monster barely in time; for just as he sprang up with a cry
of affright, and fell backwards into the boat the shark's shovel-nose shot four feet above
water at our stern, his jaws snapping together as he disappeared again, with a sound like the
springing of a powerful steel-trap.  Though baffled in his first attack, the voracious fish
continued to follow us, watching closely an opportunity for a more successful attempt.  He
was a large brown shark, of the species known to sailors as the "sea-attorney," which designation,
together with his formidable reputation for keenness, vigilance, and enterprise, shows the
estimation in which the members of the ancient and honourable profession of the law, are held
by the honest sons of Neptune.  Max professed to recognise him, as our acquaintance of the
previous evening, by whom himself and Browne had been for a time kept in a state of blockade:
our present visitor certainly evinced the same uncommon fierceness and audacity which had astonished
us in the individual referred to.  He was a trim, round-bodied, compact fellow with a wonderful
display of vigour, and even of grace, in his movements; but though not without a certain kind
of beauty, I do not wish to be understood as saying that his personal appearance was upon the
whole, prepossessing.  On the contrary, his expression, if I may venture to use the term, (and
he certainly had a good deal of expression), was, if not decidedly bad, at the least exceedingly
sinister.  His flattened head, and long leather-like snout together with a pair of projecting
goggle eyes, so situated as to command a view both in front and rear, and which he kept turning
restlessly on every side, contributed greatly to enhance this forbidding aspect.  Every moment
he seemed to grow fiercer and bolder, and at length he actually laid hold of our keel next
the rudder and fairly shook the boat from stem to stern.  To our great relief, he soon desisted
from this, for such was his bulk and strength, that we hardly knew what he might not effect
in his furious efforts.  His next move, was to make a sudden dash at Max's oar, which had probably
given him offence by coming too near his nose, and which he jerked from his hands.

Max seemed to regard this last exploit as a personal affront, and loudly declared that, "this
was going altogether too far, and that he should not stand it any longer."  He accordingly
proceeded with great energy, to lash his cutlass to the handle of one of the remaining oars,
with some twine which he found in the locker, threatening all sorts of terrible things against
the unsuspecting object of his wrath.  Meanwhile Morton succeeded in fishing up the lost oar,
which the vigilance and activity of our attentive escort rendered a somewhat dangerous undertaking;
when recovered, the marks of six rows of formidable teeth were found deeply indented upon its
blade.

Max having completed his novel weapon, Browne, who had been engaged in an unprofitable attempt
to strike the shark across the eyes with his cutlass, inquired, "what he was going to do with
that clumsy contrivance!"

"That clumsy contrivance, as you rashly term it," replied Max, with dignity, "is designed as
a shark-exterminator, with which I intend forthwith to pay my respects to this audacious sea-bully.
We have stood on the defensive quite long enough, and I am now about to carry the war into Africa."

He accordingly jumped upon the middle seat of the yawl, where, in spite of all attempts at
dissuasion, he stood watching a favourable opportunity for a thrust.  This was soon presented.
All unconscious of the unfriendly designs cherished against him, the shark came propelling
himself carelessly alongside, and directly under Max's nose, with his back fin quite above
water.  The temptation was not to be resisted.  Max braced himself as firmly as possible in
his position: Arthur expostulated, and begged him at least to get down and stand in the boat:
Morton exhorted him to caution.  But he only answered by a wave of the hand and a grim smile;
then requesting Browne to lay fast hold of his waist-band, to assist him in preserving the
centre of gravity, he raised his weapon in both hands, and giving it a preliminary flourish,
brought it down with his full force, aiming at the broadest part of the fish's back, just forward
of the dorsal fin.  But the weapon was too dull, or the blow too feeble, to pierce the tough
hide of the "sea-attorney," for it glanced smoothly off and Max losing his balance, went headlong
into the sea.  Browne, in a hasty effort to save him came near going over also, while the boat
careened until the water poured in over the gunwale, and for a moment there was imminent danger
of capsizing.  Max came to the surface, almost paralysed with fright, and clutched convulsively
at the side of the boat; when we drew him on board unharmed, but pale and shivering, as he
well might be, after so extraordinary an escape.  The shark had disappeared, and was now nowhere
to be seen.  Not being accustomed to Max's system of "carrying the war into Africa," so sudden
and headlong an attack in his own element had probably somewhat disconcerted him.  Max made
a great effort to assume an air of composure.  "Well!" said he, looking coolly around, "the
enemy has, I perceive, beaten a retreat.  I dare say he was quite as much frightened as I was,
and that is saying a good deal."

"But what has become of that patent shark-exterminator!" observed Browne, "I don't see it anywhere:
has the enemy carried it off as a trophy of victory, as conquering knights take possession
of the arms of their vanquished adversaries!"

"It is much more likely," replied Max with disdain, "that he has carried it off stuck fast
in his carcass."

But neither supposition proved to be correct, for we presently picked up the "exterminator,"
floating near us.  Johnny narrowly examined the blade, and was much disappointed at not finding
"any blood on it."

Max now took an oar to steady his nerves by rowing, for, notwithstanding his assumed composure
and forced pleasantry, they had evidently been a good deal shaken by his recent narrow escape.

By the time we came in sight of Sea-bird's Point, the increasing light, and the rosy glow in
the "dappled east," heralded the rising of the sun, and announced that the heat and glare of
the tropical day, were on the point of succeeding the mild freshness of "incense-breathing
morn."  Nor were other tokens wanting, that the reign of night was over.  A strange confusion
of indistinct and broken sounds, issuing from myriads of nests and perches all along the beach,
showed that the various tribes of sea-fowl were beginning to bestir themselves.  A few slumbrous,
half-smothered sounds from scattered nests preluded the general concert, and then the notes
were taken up, and repeated by the entire feathered population for miles along the shore, until
the clamour seemed like that of ten thousand awakening barn-yards.  And now the scene began
to be enlivened by immense multitudes of birds, rising in the air, and hovering in clouds over
the lagoon.  Some wheeled around us in their spiral flight; others skimmed the water like swallows,
dipping with marvellous promptness after any ill-starred fish that ventured near the surface;
others again, rose high into the air, from whence, by their incredible keenness of sight, they
seemed readily to discern their prey, when, poising themselves an instant on expanded wings,
they would pounce perpendicularly downward, and disappearing entirely in the water for an instant,
emerge, clutching securely a struggling victim.  But in carrying on this warfare upon the finny
inhabitants of the lagoon the feathered spoilers were not perfectly united and harmonious;
and fierce domestic contentions occasionally interrupted and diversified their proceedings.
A number of unprincipled man-of-war hawks, who preferred gaining their livelihood by robbing
their neighbours and associates, to relying upon their own honest industry, would sail lazily
around on wide-spread pinions, watching with the air of unconcerned spectators the methodical
toil of the plodding gannets.  But the instant that one of the latter rose from a successful
plunge, with a plump captive writhing in his grasp, all appearance of indifference would vanish,
and some dark-plumaged pirate of the lagoon, pouncing down like lightning upon his unwarlike
neighbour, would ruthlessly despoil him of his hard-earned prize.  One of these piratical gentry
suffered before our eyes a fate worthy of his rapacity.  A gannet had seized upon a fish much
larger than his strength enabled him to manage, and was struggling in vain to lift it into
the air, when a hawk darted upon them, and striking his talons into the fish, put the gannet
to flight.  But the greedy victor had greatly miscalculated the strength of his intended prey.
A desperate conflict, sometimes under water, and sometimes just at the surface, ensued.  The
hawk struggled gallantly, but in vain, and was at length drawn under by his ponderous antagonist,
to rise no more.

We landed a short distance beyond Johnny's row of "Oyster-trees," and by the time we had climbed
the hill, the sun had risen, though not yet visible above the wooded heights which sheltered
us to the eastward.

We were so intent upon our house-building project that, contenting ourselves with a self-denying
breakfast of cocoa-nuts, we at once set zealously to work in carrying it out.

Arthur directed, superintended, and laid out the work in detail. Morton, having fitted a handle
to the hatchet-head, and laboriously sharpened it upon a rough stone, undertook to supply materials
as fast as called for.  While he cut down trees of the kind and size required by Arthur, Max
trimmed off the branches with his cutlass, and prepared them for use.  Johnny and Eiulo dragged
them to the site of the building, where Browne and I assisted Arthur in setting the posts into
the ground, and putting together the frame of the house.  Of course, our destitution of proper
tools and implements rendered all this exceedingly laborious, and, but for Arthur's perseverance
and ingenuity, we should more than once have given up in despair.  Instead of spades, we were
obliged to use sharp bivalve shells from the shore, in digging places for the upright posts
of the building, and as it was necessary that these should be set quite deep, in order to give
it firmness and stability, the toil was severe.  Max, who came up occasionally to see how the
work was progressing, and to offer suggestions and criticisms, (more especially the latter),
on finding us upon our knees, patiently grubbing up the earth with our shells, flatteringly
compared us to so many hedge-hogs excavating their burrows.

Nevertheless, we persevered; and before night we had nearly completed the frame of our building,
with the exception of the ridge-pole, the rafters, and cross-pieces.

The posts at the sides stood six feet out of the ground, and were stationed about three feet
apart.  The centre-posts, to support the ridge-pole, were nine feet high, and made from the
trunks of well-grown trees, some six inches in diameter.  This certainly was a good day's work
under the circumstances; at any rate, we were quite unanimous in considering it so; and towards
twilight we went down to the beach for our evening bath, in an exceedingly complacent and self-satisfied
state of mind, Max enlarging upon the pleasures of industry, and professing to be in the present
enjoyment of those feelings--

  "Which follow arduous duty well performed."

Instead of repairing to our usual bathing-place, we proceeded along the beach to the north-west,
until we reached the clump of trees at the edge of the water, already mentioned as being visible
from Castle-hill.  As we approached the spot, we found that what had appeared at a distance
to be but a single group of trees, was, in fact, a small grove extending along the shore, and
fringing a little cove of nearly elliptical form, which at this point set into the land.  The
narrow, shelving beach, rivalled the whiteness of a fresh snow-drift.  The trees were mostly
cocoa-palms; indeed, scarcely any others could flourish in such a spot; and there were no shrubs
or undergrowth of any kind.  The cove was perhaps a hundred paces long, and half as wide in
the widest part; contracting to less than fifty feet where it communicated with the lagoon.
The water was clear, the bottom smooth and regularly formed, and the greatest depth was only
eight or ten feet.  Max, after viewing the cove with the eye of a connoisseur, pronounced it
a noble spot for bathing purposes, and fully equal to the basin on the reef in every respect,
except in depth and facilities for diving.

The impression of his morning's adventure, however, was still fresh, and he hinted at the possibility
that some shark of elegant tastes, and possessing an eye for the beautiful, might be in the
habit of frequenting the cove.  Arthur volunteered to keep watch at the narrow entrance, while
the rest of us were bathing, in order to give timely notice of the approach of the dreaded
enemy; but on walking out to the edge of the lagoon we found that this precaution would be
unnecessary. A bar, consisting of a coral patch, very near the surface, stretched across the
mouth of the cove, rendering it almost impossible for a shark to enter.

Johnny named the spot, "The Mermaid's Cove," but this possessive designation was merely complimentary,
for so far were we from renouncing the cove in favour of the mermaids, that from the day on
which we discovered it, it became one of our favourite and regular resorts.

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE.

THE CABIN BY THE LAKE.

A DEMOCRAT IN THE WOODS--ECHO-VALE AND LAKE LAICOMO--THE "WILD FRENCHMAN" DISCOVERED AT LAST.

  "A few firm stakes they planted in the ground,
  Circling a narrow space, but large enow,
  These strongly interknit they closed around
  With basket-work of many a pliant bough.
  The roof was like the sides; the door was low,
  And rude the hut, and trimmed with little care,
  For little heart had they to dress it now:
  Yet was the humble structure fresh and fair.
  And soon the inmates found that peace might sojourn there."

It took us an entire week to complete the frame of our building, and this alone involved an
amount and variety of labour which few of us had anticipated when we commenced it.  One day
was consumed in selecting, felling, and trimming a tree, tall and straight enough to serve
as a ridge-pole.  We next had to get out some thirty rafters of hibiscus to support the roof.
Then, as we had no nails, (Max's ship with the hardware not having yet arrived), we were obliged
to adopt the means used by the Polynesian builders for fastening the rafters to the ridge-pole
and cross-pieces, which consists of tying them firmly in their places with sennit.  To supply
the place of sennit, we manufactured a quantity of cord from twisted hibiscus bark, which answered
the purpose very well.

At length the skeleton of the house was completed.  Twenty-seven strong posts, (including the
three tall centre ones), deeply planted in the ground, supported the string pieces and the
ridge-pole.  Fifteen slender rafters, regularly placed at small intervals, descended from the
ridge-pole to the eaves on either side, and the whole was firmly bound together with tough
and durable withes of our own manufacture.

The thatching occupied another week, and but for Eiulo's skill and dexterity, we should never
have accomplished this nice and difficult operation, except after a very bungling and imperfect
fashion.  Arthur understood very well how it should be done, but his knowledge was theoretical
rather than practical, while Eiulo had acquired considerable skill in the art, by building
and thatching miniature houses in the woods, an amusement which he and his young playmates
had often practised at home.  The only thing now remaining to be done, was to make a number
of coarse mats, with which to enclose the sides of the house--as far as in such a climate it
is desirable to enclose them--together with an additional supply, ready to be put up in bad
weather, on fastenings constructed for the purpose.  But for this, there seemed to be no immediate
necessity.  The sides of the building were low, and the eaves extended two feet beyond them,
and as we had an excellent roof above us, we considered ourselves tolerably prepared, even
for rainy weather. However, we commenced manufacturing mats, in which, with the instruction
and example of Arthur and Eiulo, we were tolerably successful; but we proceeded with this very
much at our leisure.  One or two brief showers, like that which had exerted so sudden an influence
in hastening the commencement of our building scheme, afforded us the most satisfactory evidence
of the good qualities of our roof, which did not admit a drop of rain.  But at the same time
we became aware of another defect in our house, as a dwelling in wet weather.  We had no floor
but the bare earth, and though Arthur had so levelled it, and protected it by a little trench
and embankment, that no water from the adjacent grounds could reach us, except by the gradual
process of saturation, still it was very damp after a severe rain.  To remedy this, Arthur
talked from time to time of making a floor of cement, which would dry to the hardness of stone,
and through which the moisture from the ground could not penetrate.  When asked where lime
was to be obtained with which to make his cement he assumed an air of mystery, and merely said
that there would be no difficulty on that score.  One day, after we had got a large supply
of mats completed, and ready for use, he again recurred to the subject of improving our floor,
and explained that he intended to prepare his mortar or cement, from sand and lime, the latter
of which was to be procured by burning coral rock in a pit.  He prevailed upon Morton, Browne,
and myself to set about digging a "lime-pit" in the gully beside Castle-hill, while he took
Eiulo and Johnny with him in the boat, to go in search of a quantity of the sponge-shaped coral,
which, he said, was the best adapted to his purpose.

Max pronounced the whole project a humbug, and refusing to have anything to do with it, equipped
himself with club and cutlass, and started off on a solitary excursion towards the south-easterly
part of the island, which we had not yet explored.  He returned in the afternoon with a glowing
account of the discoveries he had made, among which were a beautiful pond of fresh water, a
stream flowing into it, and a waterfall.

In two days we completed a lime-pit of proper dimensions.  Arthur and his assistants had in
the same time collected and brought to the spot a sufficient quantity of coral rock; we then
covered the bottom of the pit with fuel, and laid the coral, previously broken into small pieces,
upon it.  The pile was next kindled, and when the fuel was consumed, we found that the coral
had yielded a supply of excellent lime, fine and beautifully white.  Without going into further
details, it is enough to say that the rest of Arthur's plan was carried out with the same success.
The cement was made, and a thick layer of it spread over the floor of the house, as evenly
and smoothly as could well be done, with no better trowels than gigantic oyster-shells.  In
three days it was hard as marble, and our house was now as complete as we could make it. It
had cost us a great deal of severe toil; we had found the construction of it no such holiday
employment as we had imagined; but it was the fruit of our own ingenuity and perseverance,
the work of our own hands, and we regarded it with much complacency.  Johnny impartially compared
it with the dwellings of I don't know how many other desert islanders, and found it superior
in some point to each and all of them.

Being now in a state of complete preparation, as we flattered ourselves, for all sorts of weather,
we began to feel as though a regular out-and-out storm, would be rather a luxury than otherwise.
These bright skies and sunny days were very well in their way, but it wasn't in anticipation
of them, that we had been planning and working for a month or more.  There was no use at all
for our model house in such fine weather; indeed, while it continued, our old lodgings under
the green forest leaves and the star-light, were far preferable.  It took full half a dozen
of our sleeping-mats, (and we had but three apiece), laid upon the stony floor of our dwelling,
to make a couch half as soft as those heaps of leaves, which we used to pile up beneath the
trees for our beds, and which we could not now introduce into the house for fear of "making
a litter."  The prudent citizen--who, having at the threatened approach of winter laid in a
bountiful provision of wood and coal, put up his hall-stoves and his double windows, now feels
quite ready, in the strength of anthracite and hickory, to snap his fingers in the face of
Jack Frost, and bid him do his worst--is not more impatient to have the thermometer fall to
the neighbourhood of zero, in order that he may realise the comforts he has paid for, than
were we for the advent of such a storm, as would enable us to say to one another, "Ah! is it
not fortunate that we have a roof over our heads?  What should we do now, if we had not made
timely preparation?"

Well, at last we had our wish.  A shower came up one day, in the afternoon, which did not cease
in half an hour, as the previous ones had done.  On the contrary, when darkness came on the
rain still continued falling steadily, with no sign of abatement.  Johnny was in ecstasies.
This was evidently no night for camping out; it was a night to justify all our expenditure
of labour, in planning and perfecting our dwelling. We hung up every extra mat, and fastened
them securely with the store of wooden pegs and pins prepared for that purpose.  To be sure,
we were in complete darkness, but then we were perfectly snug and comfortable; and what a luxury,
to lie sheltered from the storm, and listen to the pattering of the rain upon the root and
the dismal sound of the water dripping from the eaves!

The second morning after this rain-storm, which had so pleasantly tested the qualities of our
dwelling, we started, under Max's guidance, to make an excursion to that part of the island,
to the south-east of Castle-hill, of which he had given so glowing an account.  After half
an hour's toilsome march over uneven ground, we entered a grove, which, to Johnny's great exultation,
was composed almost entirely of bread-fruit trees.  They grew with much regularity, at almost
equal distances, so as to form broad straight avenues, overarched by a canopy of spreading
branches and dark glossy leaves.  Vistas of shapely diamond-chequered trunks stretched away
in every direction, in long and shady perspective. Among the dense masses of foliage, hung
a profusion of large globes, of a light-delicate green, or a golden yellow, the splendid fruit
of this noblest and most stately tree of the tropics.  The ripe and the unripe fruit hung side
by side from the same branches, and Johnny could hardly be persuaded to postpone gathering
a supply of it until our return.  Our course had been upon the whole rather an ascending one,
so that this grove must have occupied an elevated situation.  The ground over which it extended
was nearly level, with slight wave-like undulations.  As we approached its eastern limit, Max
told us to prepare ourselves for the most charming spectacle that we had ever beheld.  He walked
on before with the air of a cicerone when about to exhibit a chef d'oeuvre, and stood waiting
and beckoning for us at the border of the grove.  On joining him we found that he had scarcely
exaggerated in his descriptions of the spot.

We stood at the top of a smooth and gradual descent.  Before us lay a secluded valley, from
which the land rose on every side, to about the elevation of the grove behind us.  In some
places it ascended in gentle slopes, in others by abrupt acclivities.  In the bosom of the
valley spread a little lake of oval form, fringed in some places with shrubbery, while in others,
groups of casuarinas extended their long drooping boughs in graceful arches over the water.
After pausing a moment we descended to the margin of the pond, which was so limpid that we
could distinguish every pebble at the bottom.  At the upper or northern end, and near the point
at which we had come out of the grove, a small stream precipitated itself some fifteen feet
down a rocky declivity, and fell into a circular basin a few yards in diameter. Overflowing
this basin, it found its way into the lake by another descent of a few feet.  Around the basin,
and on both sides of the waterfall, were several curious columns of basalt, and irregular picturesque
piles of basaltic rock.  The plash of the water, falling into the rocky basin, was the only
sound that broke the Sabbath-like silence that pervaded the valley.  There was, or seemed to
be, something unreal and dream-like about the scene, that made us pause where we stood, in
silence, as though the whole were an illusion, which a word or a motion would dispel.

"How beautiful!" exclaimed Browne, at last, and a soft clear echo, like the voice of the tutelary
spirit of the valley, answered, "Beautiful!"

"Hark!" cried Johnny, "what a charming echo.  Listen again," and he shouted "Hurrah!"

"Hurrah!" softly responded the echo, and almost in the same breath a harsh voice, apparently
close at hand, and which was evidently not an echo, cried out, "Hillioh--oh!"

We started, and gazed around us, and at each other, in astonishment, but we could see nothing
from which this strange exclamation could proceed.

"That," said Johnny, in a trembling whisper, and seizing Browne's hand, "that is the voice
of the wild Frenchman I heard in the woods near Castle-hill."

"Yes," answered Max, gravely, "who knows but there are cannibals here? You had better be careful,
Johnny, how you hurrah in the woods."  Max's manner made me suspect that he possessed some
clue to the mystery which the rest of us lacked.

"I don't care," answered Johnny, stoutly, while the apprehensive glances which he cast around
on every side, hardly agreed with his valiant words, "I shall hurrah in spite of all the savages
on the island."

"Hillioh!--Hillioh!" yelled the same voice, more fiercely than before.

Max burst into a fit of laughter, when following the direction of his eye, we looked up, and
espied an enormous parrot perched upon a purau branch, directly over our heads, from which
he eyed us with a disdainful and truculent air.

"There's your wild Frenchman at last, Johnny," said Max, "I expect he'll call us to account
presently for our treatment of his hat."

"Don't give up de sheep!" screamed the parrot.

"Come," said Max, "what's the use of trying to talk English: it's quite plain you're a Parly-vous."

"Vive l'empereur!" shrieked the parrot.

"No doubt you can give us a song, monsieur," pursued Max; "favour us with `Polly put the kettle
on,' s'il vous plait."

Shrieking out the two lines as though they composed a single word. Apparently satisfied with
this display of his accomplishments, he spread his wings, and flew heavily across the lake,
alighting not far from the shore, whence we could hear him occasionally uttering a shrill cry.

"Do you see where the parrot is now?" inquired Morton of me, a moment afterwards.

"Yes, I see his green feathers among the foliage, but not very distinctly."

"Unless I am much mistaken," pursued he, "there is a shed or building of some kind among the
trees, on the other side of the lake, where he has alighted."

On shifting our ground a little, we could all perceive between the boughs of the trees, something,
that did in fact look like a low wooden building, and after a moment's consultation, it was
agreed that Morton and Max should cross the stream, (which could easily be done where it poured
into the lake), and reconnoitre, while the rest awaited their report.

By leaping from stone to stone, and wading occasionally for short distances, they picked their
way to the other side, and presently disappeared among the casuarinas.  After about fifteen
minutes they returned to the shore, and called for us to come over, saying that they had discovered
a building, which appeared, however, to have been long deserted.  Browne took Johnny upon his
back, and we forded the rapids as the others had done.

Following Max and Morton, we soon reached a kind of landing-place, half-way between the lake
and the top of the ascent, in the centre of which was a low wooden building, surrounded by
a rude fence of pointed stakes.  Entering through a gate, hung upon leather hinges, we found
ourselves in front of the hut.  It appeared to be built of timber which had once composed part
of a ship, and was put together with considerable skill.  The yard was full of rank weeds,
and damp masses of lichen and moss hung from the eaves of the house, and covered its roof.
The door, which was furnished with a lock and brass-handle, was closed, but not fastened; we
opened it, and entered a large square-room, lighted by four windows, two of which had evidently
been taken from the stern of a vessel; the remaining two seemed to have once constituted the
upper parts of sash-doors.  These windows were well put into the sides of the house, and from
the appearance of all the work about the room, I inferred that it had been done by persons
accustomed to that kind of labour.  A pine-table, which had lost half of one leg, and two chairs
without backs, composed the entire furniture of this apartment.  A rude shelf was fastened
against the wall between two of the windows, upon which a number of earthen-ware dishes were
arranged.  A smaller apartment was partitioned off with rough boards from the first, with which
it communicated by a simple opening or doorway, without any door.

In this second room were several low wooden frames, probably designed as bedsteads, ranged
side by side, and a large chest stained or painted blue.  In one corner stood a small square
writing-table, of some dark-coloured wood, with several drawers.  In another corner, Max discovered
a rusty gridiron and sauce-pan, a small iron pot and a toasting-fork, upon which he pounced
with the eagerness of a miser lighting upon hidden treasures.  The chest was empty, but a small
box, or till, fixed in one end of it, contained a number of vials, a cork-screw, a tin-canister,
and a French Bible, upon the last of which Arthur seized with as much avidity as Max had evinced
in appropriating the cooking utensils.  Johnny pulled open the drawers of the little writing-table,
and found a bunch of quills, a spool of green ribbon, a file of invoices and bills of lading,
a bottle of ink, and about half a ream of letter-paper, which he declared was just what was
wanted for the purpose of writing "our story."

The place had a gloomy and deserted air, and we unanimously agreed that neither the dwelling
nor its location was nearly as pleasant as our own at Castle-hill.

There were several articles which we wished to carry away with us, but we concluded to postpone
this until a future visit.  Max, however, having once laid hold of the gridiron, seemed extremely
loath to part with it again, and, finally yielding to the irresistible fascination which it
evidently had for him, he threw it over his shoulder as we started on our return, and brought
it away with him.  Having been fastidiously purified by repeated scourings and ablutions, it
proved very useful in preparing our meals, of which fresh fish frequently formed the principal
part.

In the evening, as we sat at the terraced top of Castle-hill, Johnny took seriously in hand
the important business of finding appropriate names for the discoveries of the day.

The valley beyond the grove of bread-fruit, he concluded to call "Echo Vale."  For the lake
itself, quite a variety of names was suggested, none of which, however, seemed to be entirely
satisfactory.  After puzzling over the subject a long while without any result, and working
himself into quite a nervous and excited state, a happy thought seemed all at once to suggest
itself and turning to Arthur, he eagerly demanded what was "the most beautiful lake in all
the world?"

"Loch Katrine, to be sure!" said Browne; "some would say Loch Lomond, but that is the second."

"Lake George!" cried Max, decisively.

"Lake Como, in Switzerland, is said to be, by the tourists and the poets," answered Arthur,
to whom the question had been more particularly addressed.

The last name seemed to please Johnny exceedingly, and after repeating it several times with
approbation, he inquired of Arthur, "What it was that Olla, in the Cannibal story, called her
pet wood-pigeon?"

"Lai-evi," answered Arthur.

"And you said that meant Little Captive," pursued Johnny with great animation, "and the `Lai'
means `little,' I suppose?"

"Yes, `Lai' is the diminutive."

"Well, then, I have it at last!  Our lake, though so small, is--"

"Quite a Como for its size," interrupted Max, "and so it shall be called--"

"Lake Laicomo!" cried Johnny, exultingly.

I am thus particular in mentioning these names, chiefly for the benefit of all persons engaged
in the preparation of new editions of the school geographies and atlases; and I take this opportunity,
at Johnny's especial request, to call their attention to the matter, in order that our island
and its geographical dimensions may be accurately laid down and described in future works of
the kind referred to.

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX.

THE REMOVAL.

PREPARATIONS FOR THE RAINY SEASON--GOING INTO WINTER-QUARTERS--"MONSIEUR PAUL"--THE PATRIARCH
OF THE LAKE.

  "Now Winter comes to rule the varied year,
  Sullen and sad, with all his gloomy train
  Of vapours, clouds, and storms."

We had now been several months upon the island, and notwithstanding our constant watchfulness,
we had not, during all this time, seen a single sail.  Of the vast multitudes of vessels that
track the ocean in every direction, not one had visited the solitary sea that lay within the
boundaries of our horizon; or if any had crossed the verge of the wide circle, her coming and
departure had been alike unobserved by us.

And now, by a variety of indications, it was manifest that the winter of the tropical year
was at hand.  The steady easterly breezes, which, with occasional variations of south-easterly,
had hitherto prevailed, were succeeded by violent and fickle winds, blowing sometimes from
a dozen different and opposite points of the compass in the course of twenty-four hours.  The
brief and sudden showers which we had had at intervals for some time past gradually became
more heavy and frequent. At length, one calm, sultry day, about noon, a storm, accompanied
by thunder and lightning came up, with so little previous notice, that although Arthur and
myself were at the time scarcely two hundred yards from the house, we were thoroughly drenched
before we could reach it. And this proved to be no mere thunder shower, such as we had already
been two or three times surprised by.  Scarcely had we got under shelter, when the air grew
so dark that it would really have been difficult to see one's way through the grove.  I had
never before witnessed any thing like this, and I began to fear that we were going to be visited
by one of those terrible hurricanes which sometimes devastate tropical countries.  The wind
soon commenced blowing with such violence, that the largest and sturdiest of the old trees
that surrounded our house, bent and swayed before its fury.  Their tops lashed each other overhead,
and filled the air with clouds of leaves, whirled away upon the tempest.  Large boughs were
twisted off like twigs, and strewed the ground in every direction.  The creaking and groaning
of the trees; the loud flapping of the palm-leaves, like that of a sail loose in the wind;
the howling and shrieking of the gale, as it burst in quick, fierce gusts through the forest;
with the almost total darkness that enveloped us, were truly appalling.

The strength of our dwelling was now put to a severer test than its builders had ever anticipated,
and it yielded to the force of the wind, so that at times the side-posts stood at an angle
of forty-five degrees with the floor; had they been of any material less tough and pliant than
the hibiscus, they must have snapped off in an instant.  It was well, too, that they had been
deeply and firmly planted in the ground, or the whole fabric would have been lifted bodily
into the air, and swept away like a withered leaf.  As it was, though wrenched and twisted
woefully, it stood firm.  The thatch, of which Arthur was so proud, and which had hitherto
been storm-proof, now opened in many places, and a dozen little streams began to pour in upon us.

Before night, the sound of running waters without was like that of a great spring freshet.
Cataracts were leaping on every side from the edges of the height, and a raging and turbid
torrent filled the gully that separated the forest from Castle-hill.

The tempest continued for nearly forty-eight hours.  By the time it was over, we had quite
come to the conclusion, that if this was to be regarded as a foretaste and specimen, of what
we had to expect during the rainy season, it would never do to think of remaining in our present
habitation.  Considering this as a timely warning, we resolved, after a formal consultation,
to put the deserted cabin by the lake, forthwith into tenantable condition, so as to be ready
to take up our winter-quarters there, if we should find it expedient to do so.

On the first fine day, we commenced carrying this resolution into effect, knowing that we had
now but little time to lose.  The cabin had originally been built substantially, and with a
good deal of skill, and it had suffered but little from decay.  We had, in fact nothing to
do in the way of repairing it, except to rehang the door, which was loose, and partially unhinged,
and to mend the roof, which leaked in one or two places.  We then cleared the yard from the
rank weeds by which it was overgrown, aired the house thoroughly, by setting door and windows
open for a day or two, and swept out both apartments with cocoa-nut brooms.

We next, under Arthur's direction, commenced laying in a stock of provisions.  Abundance of
ripe bread-fruit could now be procured.  We gathered a considerable quantity, which Arthur
and Eiulo baked and pounded, and prepared, by burying it under ground, wrapped in leaves, in
such a manner that it would keep, as they said, for several months.  We also piled up in one
corner of the small room, a great heap of cocoa-nuts, with the husks on, in which way they
can be preserved fresh a long while.  A bushel of candle-nuts, and about the same quantity
of taro and patara roots, completed our winter supplies.

Johnny was much dissatisfied with the poverty of these preparations for the rainy season. 
He thought we ought to have laid in a large stock of salted or smoked fish, besides catching
a score or two of turtle, and depositing them safely upon their backs in some convenient place,
ready to be converted into soup, at any moment by the magic of Max's culinary art.

Arthur thought that we need not anticipate a season of continuous storms or steady rains--that
though the prevailing weather for some months would be tempestuous, there would nevertheless
be some fine days in nearly every week, during which we could venture forth.

Another storm, as violent as the last, fully decided us to make the contemplated removal to
the cabin, and that without further delay. Johnny transported thither his entire collection
of shells, corals, etcetera, which had now grown to be quite extensive.  Arthur carried over
an armful of specimens of plants and flowers, which had long been accumulating for an "herbarium."
Max, however, averred that they were a part of the materials for a treatise on "The Botany
of Polynesia," which Arthur cherished the ambitious design of composing, and which was to be
published with coloured plate, simultaneously with the history of our adventures.  In order
that he too might have some indoor occupation during the anticipated bad weather, Max provided
himself with a huge log, hacked and sawed with great labour, from a bread-fruit tree, blown
down in the last gale, out of which he declared it to be his purpose to build a miniature ship,
destined to convey the aforesaid history, together with Arthur's botanical treatise, to America.

The day fixed for our final migration to "Lake Laicomo," at length arrived, and taking a farewell
for "the season," of our deserted tenement at Castle-hill, we set out for the cabin, to spend
our first night there.  It was not without some feelings of regret that we left a spot now
become so familiar, to bury ourselves in the woods out of sight of the sea.  It seemed almost
like going again into exile.  Johnny, in particular, felt greatly humiliated, at being obliged
to abandon the house which had cost us so much toil, to take refuge in one constructed by others.
He seemed to look upon this as a kind of tacit admission of our own utter incapacity to provide
for ourselves in that respect.

On arriving at the cabin, we were somewhat surprised to see our democratic friend the parrot,
perched over the door, as if waiting to welcome us to our new quarters.  He appeared to be
in no degree disturbed at our approach, but greeting us with one or two boisterous "Vive Napoleons!"
maintained his position until we had passed into the house, when he flew in also, and alighting
on the shelf against the wall, seemed to feel as much at home as any one.  Johnny sagely suggested
that he knew that the rainy season was coming on, and was anxious to establish himself in comfortable
quarters until it was over: possibly this supposition did our visitor injustice, by ascribing
to him motives more selfish and interested, than those by which he was really actuated.  It
is more charitable to believe, that having been once accustomed to human companionship, and
being weary of his solitary life in the woods, where his vocal accomplishments were wasted
on the desert air, he now sought our society, as being more congenial to his tastes and education,
than that of the feathered denizens of the forest.  Be this however as it may, "Monsieur Paul,"
(as he called himself), from that time took up his abode with us, and though he would sometimes
disappear for days together, he was sure to come back at last, when, if he found the door and
windows closed, (as sometimes happened), he would scream, and hurrah for "Sheneral Shackson,"
until he gained admittance. One circumstance, which I am sorry to say throws some shade of
suspicion upon the pure disinterestedness of his motives, is, that he generally went off at
the commencement of fine weather, and returned a little before a storm.  This was so uniformly
the case, that Max used to prophesy the character of the weather by his movements, and often,
when to our eyes there was not the slightest indication of a change, he would say--"There comes
Monsieur--look-out for a storm presently"--and it was rarely that he proved mistaken in such
predictions.

The second day after our removal, there was a gale, in which great trees were blown down or
torn up by the roots.  Though shaken by the force of the wind, the cabin was too firmly built
to permit any apprehension of its being overthrown; and there were no trees of large size near
it, by the fall of which it could be endangered: but we should scarcely have felt safe in our
former dwelling.

We now improved every pleasant day to the utmost, in completing our preparations for the period
of heavy rains, which Arthur declared to be close at hand.  Browne and Morton made a fish-pond
by building a dam of loose stones across the rapids below the fall, just where the stream entered
the lake.  It was soon well-stocked, without any trouble on our part, with fish resembling
roach and perch, numbers of which were carried over the fall, and prevented by the dam from
escaping into the lake.  We also collected a large quantity of bread-fruit bark, and of the
fibrous netting which binds the stalk of the cocoa-nut leaf to the trunk, to be worked up in
various ways.  This singular fabric, which in texture somewhat resembles coarse cotton cloth,
is often obtained from the larger trees in strips two or three feet wide.  It is strong and
durable, and is used by the natives for making bags, and for other similar purposes.  Garments
too, are sometimes made from it, though for that purpose tappa is preferred.  While the leaves
are young and tender, this remarkable substance is white and transparent, quite flexible, and
altogether a delicate and beautiful fabric, but not sufficiently strong to be put to any useful
purpose: as it becomes older and tougher, it assumes a yellow colour, and loses much of its
flexibility and beauty. A quantity of hibiscus bark was also collected, to be used in the manufacture
of cord for fishing-lines, nets, etcetera.

While the rest of us were actively engaged, under Arthur's direction, in accumulating a stock
of these materials, Max devoted all his energies to the task of capturing an enormous eel which
frequented the upper end of the lake.  But he exhausted all his ingenuity in this endeavour
without success.  The monster had a secure retreat among the submerged roots of an old buttress
tree, beneath an overhanging bank, from which Max daily lured him forth by throwing crumbs
into the water; but, after devouring the food that was thrown to him, he would immediately
return to his stronghold under the bank.  Max was at great pains to manufacture a fish-hook
out of a part of a cork-screw found in the till of the blue chest, by means of which he confidently
expected to bring matters to a speedy and satisfactory issue between himself and his wary antagonist.
But the latter would not touch the bait that concealed the hook.  Driven to desperation by
this unexpected discomfiture, Max next made sundry attempts to spear and "harpoon" him, all
of which signally failed, so that at the end of the brief interval of fine weather, this patriarch
of the lake, whose wisdom seemed to be proportioned to his venerable age and gigantic size,
remained proof against all the arts and machinations of his chagrined and exasperated enemy.

CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN.

WINTER EVENINGS AT HOME.

AMUSEMENTS AND OCCUPATIONS--STORY-TELLING--THE SOUTH-SEA LYCEUM.

Having now brought my story down to the period of our getting into winter-quarters at Lake
Laicomo, (where, during the last few weeks, the foregoing portion of this narrative has been
written), I shall change my tenses, for the present chapter at least, while I sketch the occupations
and amusements by which we endeavour to fill up the time of our imprisonment.

The rainy season is now nearly over, and we have got through it much more comfortably and pleasantly
than we anticipated.  The few fine days during which we finished our preparations for it, as
mentioned in the last chapter, were succeeded, in accordance with Arthur's prediction, by more
than a week of steady rain, and for several weeks there was not a day without rain.  During
this time, of course, we were thrown entirely upon our indoor resources, and, thanks to the
forethought which had provided an abundant store of materials, upon which the ingenuity or
industry of each of us could be variously exercised, we have thus far managed to keep pretty busy.

We have twisted a great store of cord for fishing-lines, nets, and other purposes, from the
supply of hibiscus bark previously laid in.  We have also manufactured more than a dozen pairs
of serviceable moccasins, with no other materials than cocoa-nut cotton and bread-fruit bark.
Browne has made a chess-board, and rudely but elaborately carved a complete set of men, of
gigantic size, in which he has evinced much skill and ingenuity, and a vast deal of perseverance.
The castles are mounted upon the backs of elephants, which Johnny innocently mistook for enormous
swine with two tails apiece.  The knights are provided with shields, bearing Saint Andrew's
cross and the thistle for a device, and would have been arrayed, without doubt, in kilt and
tartan had it been possible.  The bishops wear grotesque-looking cocked hats, intended for
mitres, and their countenances are so singularly truculent and unprepossessing, that Max accuses
the artist of having in this petty way, evinced "his Scottish and Presbyterian spite against
Episcopacy."

Morton has, among other things, made a couple of nets, and a mortar and pestle for pounding
bread-fruit and taro.

Max's time and attention have been chiefly devoted to the manufacture of a variety of warlike
weapons, among which are four or five formidable bludgeons, which he styles "Feejee war-clubs,"
made from the hard and ponderous wood of the casuarina.  He has also worked a good deal, at
intervals, upon the huge log, out of which the "Messenger ship" is to be constructed.

Arthur has been more usefully employed in contriving two frames or stands, designed as candlesticks
for holding the native substitute for candles, which substitute consists simply of a cocoa-nut
stalk, some eighteen inches long, strung with candle-nuts.  These nuts are of about the size
of a horse-chestnut, and contain a considerable quantity of oil: they are the fruit of one
of the largest and most magnificent trees of our island.  One nut will burn from five to ten
minutes, according to its size, and if they are pressed closely together upon the stalk, the
flame communicates readily from one to another, affording a tolerably clear and steady light
until the entire string is consumed.

To supply the place of Johnny's jacket and trousers, which are completely worn out, Arthur
has made, from two or three large strips of cocoa-nut cotton, a garment resembling the South
American "poncho," being a loose wrapper, with a circular aperture through which the head of
the wearer is to be thrust.  It is by no means an elegant article of apparel, and Johnny was
at first inclined to look upon it with disfavour.  But upon being informed that it was in all
respects, except the material of which it was made, like the "tiputa," formerly worn by the
Tahitian chiefs and men of note, he became fully reconciled to it.

These, (which I mention merely as a sample of our industrial labours), and similar tasks, furnish
us occupation during the day.  As soon as it gets dark, we set out the broken-legged table
in the middle of the room, and lighting three or four skewers of candle-nuts, amuse or employ
ourselves in a variety of ways.  Browne and Morton frequently sit down to a game of chess,
or seizing a couple of Max's "Feejee war-clubs," practise the broad-sword exercise, in which
Browne, who has some skill in fencing, occasionally gives lessons to the rest.

Arthur has opened an evening-school, in which he teaches Eiulo reading and writing, and gives
Johnny instruction in botany and conchology, using his "herbarium," and Johnny's collection
of shells, for the purpose of illustration.  He also writes a good deal, and asks Eiulo many
questions respecting the customs, ceremonies, and traditions of Tewa.  Occasionally, during
such conversations, when he makes a note of something new or striking, Max laughs, and says,
that in addition to the great work on the botany of Polynesia, Arthur designs to enlighten
the world with a learned treatise on the "Traditions and Superstitions of the South-Sea Islanders."

Johnny either re-arranges his "collection," or plays jack straws with Eiulo, or devotes himself
to the education of the parrot.

As for me, I have hitherto amused myself during the evenings in writing up "the narrative,"
and occasionally reading portions of it aloud, claiming, however, the privilege of skipping
such passages as I think proper.  It having been solemnly resolved that the "history of our
adventures" must be written in the form of a "regular desert island story," to use Johnny's
expression, and divided into chapters, Max insists that the commencement of each chapter should
be furnished with a poetical motto, and offers, in the capacity of a dictionary of quotations,
to furnish scraps of rhyme for that purpose, to order, in any quantity required, and at the
shortest notice, upon merely being informed of the sentiment with which the motto is desired
to harmonise.

After hearing the narrative thus far, with the exception of such portions as I have thought
proper to omit, Max expresses strong distrust of my fairness and impartiality as a historian.
He accuses me in particular, of having done him injustice by omitting some of his most remarkable
exploits, as well as many brilliant sayings upon a great variety of subjects.  He declares
that I do not understand and appreciate him--that I am incapable of doing so; and that I have
unjustly, though perhaps unintentionally, represented him as a trifling, light-minded sort
of person.  I have, therefore, felt bound to record this protest of the injured party, but
having just read it to him, he pronounces it unsatisfactory, and an aggravation of the original
wrong.

Sometimes, as a variation of our evening amusements, we put out the lights, and sit and tell
stories in the dark.  Browne's memory is stored with an unfailing supply of marvellous tales
and legends, founded upon Scottish history and tradition, or the habits and superstitions of
the people; some relate to wraiths, warnings, second sight, etcetera; some illustrate the prowess
of Scottish heroes and worthies, from Bruce and Wallace, right down to Johnny Armstrong and
Rob Roy Macgregor; others, again, are wild and tragical tales of covenanting times, or of the
sufferings endured, and the dangers encountered by his countrymen, for their religious faith,
from the time of the murder of "holy Patrick Hamilton, the first Scottish martyr," to the forays
of prelatical moss-troopers, and the butcheries of Claverhouse, in later days.

The chief point of all Browne's narratives, however various their subjects, is to illustrate
the superiority of Scotland, and every thing Scottish, from martyrs to mendicants, and from
heroes to highwaymen, over all the rest of the world in general, and the sister kingdom in
particular.  I was greatly amused by one of his stories, which related how a Scottish border-robber
outwitted and plundered an English professional brother.  In his patriotic resolution to uphold
the superiority of his country in all respects, Browne was not even willing to allow that the
pilferers and marauders south of the Tweed, could at all compare in address and audacity, with
those who enjoyed the advantage of having been bred to the north of it.

Max, too, was, (at least in Johnny's estimation), a famous story-teller, almost equal in fact
to Schehezerade, of the Thousand and One Nights. His stories, however, were of an entirely
different character from those of Browne.  They had no savour of historic or traditionary truth,--no
relation to actual life,--and in this consisted their great charm. Their subject matter, was
the wonderful exploits of bold knights-errant, sallying forth, attended by their trusty esquires,
in search of high adventures; their chivalrous encounters with other knights in mortal quarrel,
or for the honours of the tourney; their incredible feats of strength and valour in the rescue
of captive maidens, wandering princesses, and distressed damsels, from all sorts of unheard-of
perils, and in the redress of all manner of grievances, by whomsoever suffered. In his more
romantic flights he described exploits yet more perilous than these,--conflicts with giants
and ogres,--the storming and demolishing of enchanted castles, defended by scaly griffins,
and fire-breathing dragons, backed by the potent spells and incantations of some hostile magician.
To such narratives Johnny would willingly listen by the hour.  Any trifling anachronisms or
inconsistencies, which sometimes occurred, never troubled him in the least.  If some of Max's
knights, equipped with sword and shield, and sheathed in mail, were also expert at fire-arms,
and handled a rifle or a revolver, like a Kentuckian, Johnny respected and admired them all
the more on account of these varied accomplishments, and never troubled the narrator with any
vexatious demand for explanations.

At first Max had been greatly piqued at the slight interest which Johnny seemed to feel in
the fate of his heroes.  The fact was, that he had become so familiar with that department
of literature, and was so accustomed to see the hero come safely out of the most horrible and
unheard-of dangers, that he regarded it as quite a matter of course, and there was now no such
thing as alarming him for his safety.  It was to no purpose that Max surrounded his heroes
with fierce and numerous foes; Johnny took it quite coolly, expecting him to cut his way out
as a hero should.  It was in vain to cover him with wounds--a hero's wounds are never mortal.
Cast him away upon an iron-bound coast in the midst of a hurricane--Johnny knew that one would
escape: drown a hero! who ever heard of such a thing!  Max at length resented this indifference,
by suddenly becoming quite tragical, and actually despatching two or three heroes with very
little ceremony.  The first of these unfortunate gentlemen perished, if I remember correctly,
by "a tremendous backstroke of a two-handed, double-edged sword, that severed his head from
his body."  At this sentence, which seemed pretty decisive, Johnny was somewhat staggered,
but, immediately recovering himself, he bade Max "go on," expecting, I verily believe, that
it would turn out that the head was not in fact quite cut off or that if it was, it would,
like that of the physician Dubin, in the Arabian Nights, be again set upon the shoulders, and
life restored by the healing virtue of some potent medicament.  Great was his astonishment
and consternation, on being made at last to comprehend, that the hero was actually dead; which
fact he did not, however, appear fully to realise, until Max, to put the matter beyond doubt,
buried him with great funereal pomp and ceremony, and erected over his remains a splendid monument,
with an inscription recording his exploits and his valour.  This method of proceeding, Max
judiciously followed up, by giving a tragical termination to his romances, often enough to
keep Johnny reminded that his heroes at any rate were mortal.

In addition to these resources for our evenings, we have the semi-weekly meetings of "The South-Sea
Lyceum," which was organised soon after the commencement of the rainy season, and of which
Arthur is the president having been twice unanimously elected to that dignified and responsible
office.  Recitations or declamations, essays, and debates upon questions previously selected,
constitute the regular exercises at these meetings. Browne possesses quite a talent for dramatic
recitation, and he has Shakespeare almost by heart, which circumstances, early on the voyage
out, earned for him the nickname of "Shaks."  At nearly every session of the "Lyceum," he is
either among the regular appointees for a recitation, or is called out by acclamation for a
voluntary one.  Max shines chiefly in debate, in which he is always ready to take either side,
of any question.  Indeed he sometimes speaks on both sides of the same question, and displays
his ingenuity by refuting his own arguments.

These meetings have thus far been exceedingly pleasant, and on many a night when the driving
rain was beating upon roof and window, and the wind was howling dismally around our solitary
cabin, all has seemed bright and cheerful within, as Max and Morton carried on a spirited debate,
or Browne declaimed Wolsey's soliloquy, or "To be, or not to be, that is the question."

The minutes of one meeting of the Lyceum may answer as a sample of their entertainments:--

Recitation, (by Johnny), Lines supposed to have been written by Alexander Selkirk, "I am monarch
of all I survey," etcetera.

Recitation, (by Browne), Clarence's Dream.

Essay, (by the President), on the traditions of a Deluge, to be found among the Polynesian tribes.

Essay, (by myself), The theory of the formation and structure of Coral Islands.

Debate.  Question: Is childhood the happiest period of human life?

Affirmative maintained by Max, negative by Morton.

Summing up of the arguments by the President and decision by him in the negative.

Reading of the Polynesian Intelligencer, by the Editor, (Max).

Recitation, (by Eiulo), a Tewan War-song, in the original.

After the first protracted rain was over, there were frequent intervals of fine weather, which
lasted sometimes several days.  But we found on going forth, that a change had taken place
in the condition of things, which rendered any long excursion, even during these intervals,
entirely out of the question.

Considerable streams poured down from the higher ground toward the interior, and traversed
the island at short distances, presenting formidable barriers to all travelling.  The ground
was everywhere so miry that it was difficult to avoid sinking above the ankles at every step.

As the season advanced it became still worse, and at length we confined ourselves almost entirely
to the house.  Lately, however, there has been a very perceptible improvement; the rains have
become lighter, and less frequent, and the season is evidently drawing towards its close. 
We are already discussing our plans for the summer, and have resolved upon a thorough exploration
of the island, as soon as the fine weather has been long enough established to remove the effects
of the heavy rains.

CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT.

THE SEPARATION.

OUR SECLUSION INVADED--SPRING IN THE TROPICS--THE EXCURSION AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.

  "Reviving Nature bounds as from her birth:
  The sun is in the heavens, and life on earth;
  Flowers in the valley, splendour in the beam,
  Health in the breeze, and freshness in the stream."

I resume my narrative, under circumstances widely different from those in which the preceding
chapter was written.  The events of the last few days have completely changed the aspect of
affairs in our little world. The peace, the seclusion, the security, with which in our minds
it had hitherto been invested, exist no longer.  Our quiet life, so free from vicissitudes
and alarms, as to seem almost monotonous, has been rudely broken into, and in a few days we
are to take a step which cannot fail to be attended with consequences momentous to us, but
whether fraught with good or evil, it is impossible to foresee.  This, however, is anticipating
the regular course of events.

It is scarcely credible, how short a time after the cessation of the rains, sufficed to remove
every trace of their effects.  Three or four days of sunshine seemed to restore things to nearly
the condition, in which we found them on first reaching the island.

It is true the vegetation now had a fresher look than before, and slender brooks still murmured
through ravines usually dry; the lake, too, formerly so limpid, was somewhat discoloured by
the turbid streams running into it from the surrounding heights; but the standing pools of
water had evaporated, and the ground had, in most places, become once more firm and dry.

As soon as the weather was fairly established, we made several excursions in various directions,
though not to any considerable distance.  On visiting Castle-hill, we found nothing left of
our house there, except the foundation; the entire framework, having been swept away by the
wind.  A large candle-nut tree, just before the door, had been struck by lightning, and the
blasted and blackened trunk, sadly marred the beauty of the spot.

Arthur had selected a favourable location on the margin of the lake near the fish-pond, for
a taro and patara patch; and we spent several days in ransacking the neighbouring woods for
roots, with which to stock it. Yams, we had not yet succeeded in finding, though they are indigenous
in most of the Polynesian islands, and we had made diligent search for them in the localities
where they are usually found.

One fine morning, soon after the cessation of the rains, Arthur proposed an expedition into
the interior, following the course of the stream upward towards its source.  In addition to
the general object of exploration, he had in view the discovery of the much-coveted vegetable
last-mentioned, there being one large variety of it, which is found growing wild among the
mountains, or upon the sides of the hills of the interior.  All received the suggestion with
cordial approval, being particularly pleased with the proposed route, along the banks of the
brook.  Johnny, exulting in his recovered liberty, after the long imprisonment of the winter,
and anticipating all sorts of wonderful discoveries in the vegetable, floral, and ornithological
departments, at once enlisted Eiulo and himself as members of the party of exploration.

As we were about to enter a region, with the resources of which, in the way of provisions,
we knew nothing, we considered it a measure of wise precaution to fortify ourselves against
the fatigues of the journey, by a hearty breakfast of broiled fish and roasted taro.  This
important duty having been conscientiously attended to, our remaining preparations occupied
but little time, and we set out at an early hour.

Johnny, equipped with his longest bow, and an abundant stock of arrows, in readiness for the
appearance of anything in the shape of a jackal or a tiger-cat, marched valiantly in advance,
while Eiulo, in the capacity of armour-bearer, or trusty esquire, followed, carrying his cutlass.
Next, carefully surveying the ground we passed over, came Arthur, with a bag upon his arm,
and a basket of cocoa-nut leaflets in his hand, ready for the reception of the yams, when found,
and of all sorts of roots, plants, and botanical specimens, that might be discovered in the
meantime.

Max was armed to the teeth, as though in preparation for a pitched battle.  By his side, in
a belt of hibiscus bark, was stuck his cutlass: in one hand he carried a "spear," and in the
other, one of his "Feejee war-clubs."  Morton and myself were provided with a cutlass apiece;
and Browne, without having encumbered himself even to that extent, strolled leisurely along
with his hands in his pockets, whistling "blue-bonnets over the border."

It was now the spring of the tropical year: the deciduous trees were renewing their verdure,
and were covered with young shoots, and bursting leaf-buds.  Even the evergreens--though they
change but little throughout the year, and the old leaves and the new, the blossoms and the
ripe fruit, may be seen upon the same tree at almost every season, looked brighter and fresher
than before the rains.  The earth was carpeted with beautiful grasses, mingled with tufts of
moss, and bunches of fern.  Blue and white flowers were scattered about almost as profusely
as the "pinkster blossoms," in April, in the woods at home; and in sheltered places, the modest
cape-jasmine was beginning to unfold its fragrant leaves.  A delightful freshness filled the
air, and there was as yet, at this early hour, nothing to remind us that we were beneath the
fervent skies of the burning zone.

Rejoicing and exhilarated at finding himself in the woods once more, Johnny ran furiously hither
and thither, closely attended by Eiulo, gathering wild-flowers, ferns and mosses; chasing bugs,
beetles, and butterflies; and letting fly his arrows at every unfortunate member of the feathered
community that came within the range of his archery.  In every thicket and almost at every
step, he came upon something to call forth the most boisterous exclamations of surprise or
delight.  He was manifestly in the state of mind declared by the poet to be so eminently happy
and desirable--

  "To all exhilarating influences,
  Of earth and heaven alive!"

Scarcely a moment passed, that he did not come running all aglow and out of breath to Arthur,
with eager questions about something or other which he had just seen, and then dash off again
into the forest without waiting for a reply, where fresh explosions of admiration or wonder,
would soon announce new, and if possible, still more astounding discoveries.

The shores of the stream were picturesque and varied.  For the first half-mile from our starting-point,
it wound between smooth grassy banks, adorned with scattered clumps of trees.  It then entered
a dense wood, where its channel was a rugged ravine, inclosed between steep rocks of black
basalt.  Here, the scraggy, ill-conditioned trees were crowded together, and overgrown with
gigantic creepers.  The branches, reaching across from the opposite shores, were interlaced
and matted into thick masses, almost excluding the light of day.  Max here displayed his agility,
by laying hold of a long bough which extended from bank to bank, and walking "hand over hand"
across the stream that flowed darkly and sluggishly some twelve or fifteen feet below.

We were an hour at the least, in toiling through this tangled wood, though it did not extend
more than half a mile.  After leaving it behind us, frequent rapids showed that we were steadily
ascending as we proceeded.  Birds, such as we had not before seen on the island, and which
reminded me of some of my old acquaintances of the New England woods, perched upon the trees,
or flew familiarly around us.  One or two, of the woodpecker tribe, looked wonderfully natural
and home-like, as they sat industriously drumming upon hollow logs.  Another, a small, brown
bird, with modest plumage, surprised and delighted me, by a clear, full whistle, that sounded
not unlike that of our own robin redbreast. We also saw numbers of a species of pigeon with
black bills, slate-coloured bodies, and a ruff of white feathers about the neck.  One of these
Johnny brought down with his bow, besides wounding very seriously, (as he alleged), a considerable
number of others.  The woodpeckers and whistlers enjoyed a temporary immunity from his formidable
shafts, reluctantly granted them at my intercession in their behalf, on the score of old associations.

About an hour before noon we reached a spot where the stream was divided by a rocky islet,
around which it spread out like a small lake.  A grove, of a very peculiar appearance, and
seeming to consist of a single tree, sheltered and overspread the entire spot.

Here we concluded to halt, beginning by this time to feel quite tired, and inclined to rest.
The water was shallow at this point, and Max wading over to the little island, presently called
upon us to follow him if we wished to behold "a veritable banyan tree."  Whether a banyan or
not, (Arthur pronounced it to be a species of barren fig), it was certainly a wonderful specimen
of vegetation.  The main trunk, springing up in the centre of the islet, was nearly three feet
in diameter.  At the height of some fifteen feet from the ground, large branches extended horizontally
in every direction.  From these branches, at regular intervals, pendulous, vine-like shoots
sprouted and grew downwards until they reached the ground, where they took root, and gradually
increasing in size formed new trunks or pillars, to support a further extension of the branches.
This process of growth had gone on until the tree had overrun the entire island, resembling
a flat roof of green branches, resting upon rows of columns.  Some of the perpendicular shoots
had not yet reached the ground, others had just taken root, and were slender and flexible,
while many of the older ones rivalled the parent stem in size, and could not easily be distinguished
from it.

While we rested here, a pair of the little brown songsters alighted among the branches of the
"banyan," and entertained us with a vocal performance, in which they took up the strain alternately,
responding to each other, and occasionally uniting in a chorus.

Max now declared himself savagely hungry, and commenced exploring the neighbourhood in search
of something eatable.  But no fruit-bearing trees were to be found, and he returned from his
foraging expedition protesting that the country was a perfect desert, and declaring that he
for one would not proceed a step farther until he took up the line of march for home.  We were
all of the opinion that we had done enough for one day, and it was agreed that, after resting
ourselves a short time, we should commence our return.

Meantime, Arthur caught sight of some trees upon a ridge of land a short distance further up
the stream, whose foliage resembled, as he thought, that of the "auti," or cloth plant.  Saying
that he would return in a few moments, he walked along the west bank of the brook in the direction
of the ridge, followed by Johnny and Eiulo, who seemed as animated and unwearied as ever. 
Presently they turned a bend in the stream, and we lost sight of them.  For lack of more interesting
occupation, I began to count the stems of the grove-tree.  There were seventeen, of large size,
and a great number of smaller ones.  Max discovered a deep pool at the lower end of the islet,
in which were a number of fish, marked like yellow perch: and as he had a fishing-line of Eiulo's
manufacture, in his pocket he amused himself by angling, using wood-beetles for bait. Morton
and Browne hunted up four flat stones, and commenced pitching quoits.

After half an hour passed in these various ways, we began to wonder at Arthur's long delay,
and to grow impatient for his return.  I had counted every stem of the banyan-fig, great and
small.  Max had become quite disgusted with angling for fish, which were too wary, or too well-fed,
to favour him with even a nibble.  Browne, after being beaten for five successive games, had
very naturally lost his interest in the sport, and tossed his quoits into the brook.

Another half-hour passed, and still the absentees failed to make their appearance.  Max now
professed to be suffering from the pangs of hunger, and longed for the sight even of the much-abused
cocoa-nut tree.  At last our patience being utterly exhausted, we resolved to go in search
of Arthur and his suite, whose protracted absence greatly surprised us.

On reaching the point, or bend, behind which they had disappeared, we hallooed loudly, but
there was no answer.  As we proceeded, the ground became very rough and broken, and the bed
of the brook was full of loose rocks.  A little further on, the noise of a waterfall was heard,
and after one or two more turns, we reached a spot where the stream leaped down a precipice
some twenty feet.  Our further progress in the direction we were pursuing was barred by a wall
of rock; an active and fearless climber might, it is true, have scaled it by the aid of the
stunted shrubs and jutting crags upon its face, but we knew that Arthur accompanied by Eiulo
and Johnny, could not have passed on by any such route.

Proceeding to the left, along the foot of the precipice, and pausing at short intervals to
repeat our halloos, we at last reached a wide fissure in the rock, by scrambling through which
we gained the higher level. This was in all probability a part of the ridge which Arthur had
seen from the islet.  We now returned along the brow of the precipice until we came to the
waterfall, where we shouted again, but still without getting any answer.  To push the search
further in this direction seemed useless, for it was morally certain that Arthur would not
have continued beyond this point up the stream; the understanding with which he had left us,
forbade any such supposition.

We began now to feel alarmed, and to fear that some accident had befallen them, though of what
nature we were at a loss to conjecture. Morton suggested the possibility that they had taken
the opposite bank of the brook, and that while we were looking for them, they might have returned
to the islet.  This seemed not improbable, and striving hard to convince ourselves that it
must be so, we regained the lower level by the same pass through which we had ascended, and
hastened along the base of the height, and down the shore of the stream till we reached the
islet again.  But our companions were not there.  Still, they might have returned during our
absence, and supposing that we had started homeward, proceeded after us.  We were greatly perplexed
what course to pursue. If we delayed our return much longer, we should not be able to reach
the cabin before night set in: the wilderness around seemed to contain nothing that could serve
as food, and we should have to fast as long as we remained in it.  Then, too, our waiting longer
could be of no benefit to the others, even if they had not yet returned to the islet.  Upon
finding us gone, they would know at once that we had set out for home, and there was no possibility
of their mistaking their way thither.

We concluded, accordingly, to return without further delay.  Browne cut a stout stick, and
planted it in the sand at the margin of the brook, arranging a number of large pebbles at its
foot, in the form of a hand, with the index finger pointing homeward.  We then set out at a
brisk pace, with some hope, but little actual expectation, of overtaking our companions on the war.

We soon reached the thick wood with its matted undergrowth, and the old and knotted vines twining
like enormous reptiles around the trunks of the trees; and so slow was our progress through
it, that, when we emerged into the open country, it was nearly sunset.  The remaining distance
was more rapidly accomplished.  As we drew nigh to the cabin, I began to look anxiously for
the appearance of the missing ones.  Each moment I expected to see Johnny rushing towards us
with a laughing boast of having "beaten us home."  But no one came forth to meet us, and I
thought that the valley had never before looked so lonely.

It was not, however, entirely deserted.  The parrot was perched in solitary state upon the
eaves of the cabin, and as we opened the gate, he flapped his wings, and croaked forth in dismal
tones a sentence which Johnny, little dreaming of its present application, had been at much
pains to teach him:--"Poor Paul's lonesome!" he cried, "they're all gone--all gone!"

CHAPTER TWENTY NINE.

THE SEARCH.

HOME SWEET HOME--MAX ON MOONLIGHT--FOLLOWING A TRAIL--THE CONCEALED CANOE.

  "Where'er thou wanderest, canst thou hope to go
  Where skies are brighter, or the earth more fair?
  Dost thou not love these aye-blue streams that flow,
  These spicy forests, and this golden air?

  "O yes!  I love these woods, these streams so clear,
  Yet from this fairy region I would roam,
  Again to see my native hills--thrice dear!
  And seek that country, of all countries,--Home."

Max hastened to collect fuel, and kindle a fire, in order to prepare some food.  Assuming,
as usual, the entire superintendence and control of the culinary department, and every thing
connected therewith, he set Browne to work washing and scraping tara-roots, despatched me after
a fresh supply of fuel, and sent Morton with the hand-net down to the fish-pond to take out
a couple of fish for a broil.  But while thus freely assigning tasks to the rest of us, with
the composed air of one accustomed to the exercise of unquestioned authority, he by no means
shrunk from his own fair share of the work; and having got the fire burning cleverly by the
time that Morton returned with the fish, he rolled up his sleeves, and with an air of heroic
fortitude, commenced the necessary, but somewhat unpleasant process of cleaning them.

Night had now set in, but the sky being perfectly clear, and the moon at her full, it was scarcely
darker than at early twilight.

Max seemed to prolong his culinary operations to the utmost, either from pure love of the employment,
or with the still lingering hope, that our companions might yet arrive in time to partake of
our supper.

At last however, it became apparent that the cookery could not, without serious detriment,
be longer protracted.  The bursting skin of the taro revealed the rich mealy interior, and
eloquently proclaimed its readiness to be eaten.  The fish were done to a turn, and filled
the cabin with a savoury odour, doubly grateful to our nostrils after a twelve hours' fast.
Max declared with a sigh, that another moment upon the gridiron would ruin them, and he was
reluctantly compelled to serve up the repast without further delay, when, notwithstanding our
growing anxiety on account of Arthur's absence, we made a hearty meal.  After feeding Monsieur
Paul, and setting by some food in readiness for our companions when they should arrive, as
we still hoped they would do in the course of the evening, we went out to a spot above the
cascade, where Morton and Browne had arranged some rude fragments of basalt, so as to form
a semicircle of seats, which, if less comfortable than well-cushioned arm-chairs would have
been, might at any rate be considered in decidedly better "rural taste," and in more harmonious
keeping with the character of the surrounding scene.

From this point we could trace the windings of the brook for some distance in one direction,
while below us, in the opposite one, spread the moonlit lake, reflecting in its mirror-like
surface the dark masses of foliage that fringed its shores.  It was one of those tranquil,
dreamy nights, known only in tropical countries.  A subtle fragrance of fresh buds and blossoms
filled the air.  The light streamed in a silvery flood upon the tufted tops of the groves;
while in the solemn shade beneath, the serried trunks reared themselves in long ranks, like
the grey columns of some Gothic ruin.

As we sat listening to the murmur of the waterfall, the rustling of the trees, and the distant
and muffled booming of the surf, I fell into a dreamy reverie, which was at length dissipated
by Browne's voice--

"Can any thing be more beautiful than this scene at this moment!" exclaimed he, "and yet I
do not know when I have experienced such a weariness of it all--such an intense longing for
home, as I feel to-night."

"I shall begin to believe in mesmeric sympathy," said Morton, "I was myself just thinking of
home.  Home, sweet home!" and he heaved a long-drawn sigh.

Yes! the charm and illusion of our island life had long ended.  We were tired of tropical luxuriance,
and eternal summer.  Glowing skies, and landscapes like a picture, had almost ceased to gratify
even the eye.  I longed for a glimpse of a rugged New England hill once more.  A gnarled New
England oak, though stripped by wintry winds of every leaf, would be a sight more grateful
to me, than all those endless groves of waving palms.

"I cannot believe," resumed Browne, "that we are destined to waste our days in this lonely
spot, elysium as it is, of external beauty.  We have faculties and desires, which can find
no scope here, and which are perishing for lack of exercise.  Still it is possible.  But it
is a dreary, dreary thought!

Browne recited the lines with a power and feeling, that affected even the matter-of-fact Morton;
Max hastened to show that he was above being so easily moved.

"All this comes," cried he, "of lying here under the trees in the moonlight.  Moonlight certainly
has a tendency to make people melancholy and sentimental; it also makes them do foolish things.
The most absurd and unreasonable notions I ever entertained, came into my head by moonlight,
and wouldn't go away.  Only twenty-five minutes ago, we were quite a rational, practical set
of persons, eating our supper, (a well-cooked supper, too, though I say it myself), with a
keen appetite, like Christians.  And now, we have fallen to sighing and quoting poetry, and
Browne waxes quite pathetic at the touching thought of getting a glimpse once more, of the
smoky chimneys of Glasgow!  Finally, I have nearly caught the infection myself, and unless
I escape out of the moonlight presently, I dare say I also shall become quite lack-a-daisical,
and commence a poetical apostrophe to my native village of Hardscrabble--or rather to plump
little Susan Somers, my first love, at the `madam's' school, who affected my weak mind and
susceptible heart to that extent, that in her bewildering presence my tongue clave to the roof
of my mouth, while I grew red in the face like a perplexed turkey gobbler.  But what can have
become of Arthur and the rest?  Unless something had happened to them, they must have returned
before now."

A little before midnight we retired to the cabin to sleep, having first agreed, that in the
morning three of us should proceed up the stream again, to make a thorough search for our companions,
the fourth remaining behind until near noon, when, if the absentees had not yet returned, he
should set out to join the others at the islet below the falls, which we fixed upon as the
rendezvous.

In the morning, lots were drawn to determine which of us should remain at the cabin, and that
duty fell to Morton.  The rest of us, having armed ourselves, and prepared a supply of taro
and bread-fruit, sufficient, as we supposed, for several days, set out, soon after sunrise.
Our progress was much more rapid than it had been when we first went over the ground, as we
now had a definite object in view, and pressed steadily forward, without allowing any thing
to interrupt or delay us.  In an hour and a half after starting, we came in sight of the islet.
Opposite it was the stake which Browne had planted in the sand, just as we had left it.  We
pushed on up the stream to the cascade, and crossing to the right bank, we began to skirt the
base of the rocky wall on that side, looking carefully around for some traces of our companions.

We had proceeded in this way, about one hundred yards from the brook, when I picked up one
of Johnny's arrows in a tuft of fern.  This was conclusive evidence that we were upon the right
track.  A little farther on, was a piece of marshy ground, and here we made a startling discovery.
In the soft soil, several foot-prints could be plainly distinguished.  Some were coarse, shapeless
impressions, precisely such as would be made by the rude moccasins worn by Arthur and Johnny.
Others were the prints of naked feet, and some of these were of far too large a size to be
made by either of the three.  This discovery affected us for the moment like an electric shock,
and we stood looking at one another without speaking, and scarcely breathing, while the very
beating of our hearts might be heard.

Browne was the first to recover himself, when he commenced a close examination of all the tracks.
The piece of ground upon which they could be traced, extended some thirty yards, and after
a careful scrutiny of the whole of it, we became convinced that at least four persons, besides
our three companions, had recently passed over it.  All the tracks were not in the same direction,
and from finding those of precisely the same size lying in opposite directions, we inferred
that some of these persons, at least, had passed and repassed the spot.

The most distressing surmises as to the cause of the disappearance of our companions, now began
to suggest themselves.  We were so astounded by this decisive evidence of the presence of strangers
upon the island, that we scarcely knew what to do next, but at last concluded to return to
the islet and await Morton's arrival, being anxious to avoid the risk of any further division
of our numbers.  We accordingly retraced our way thither: supposing that Morton would have
set out before we could reach the cabin, and that we might pass each other on the way without
knowing it, if we should proceed down the stream to meet him, we remained quietly at the islet,
keeping a vigilant and somewhat nervous look-out on every side.

He arrived about noon, having started rather sooner than had been agreed upon.  On being informed
of the tracks which had been discovered, he said that we ought at once to trace them as far
as we were able.  "We must not rest," said he, "until we know something more of this, even
if we have to traverse every inch of ground on the island."

Browne was inclined to infer from the foot-prints, that the interior, and the eastern part
of the island, of which we as yet knew nothing, were inhabited, and that our companions had
fallen into the hands of the natives.

"Let us, in the first place, find, if possible, where they are.  We can then judge what is
to be done, if indeed we can do any thing," said Morton, "and now for the place where the tracks
you speak of are to be seen."

Grasping our weapons, which were no longer to be regarded as a useless incumbrance, we once
more proceeded up the brook, and soon reached the piece of low ground before mentioned.  We
again narrowly inspected the tracks: Morton measured them with a twig, and concluded, as we
had previously done, that these were the foot-prints of at least seven persons--there being
that number of clearly different sizes.  Three of these were without doubt the tracks of Arthur,
Johnny, and Eiulo.  The impressions made by the moccasins of the two former led only in one
direction, (from the stream), while those of the naked feet, (or of some of them), were in
two opposite directions.  Following these tracks eastward along the rocky ridge, we soon came
to firm dry ground, where footsteps could no longer be traced.  But by a minute scrutiny, we
were still able to detect slight but decisive indications of the course of the party whose
trail we were endeavouring to follow.

In one place, a bunch of spreading ferns had been trodden down, and the long graceful fronds
bruised and broken: in another, a cluster of crushed wild-flowers betrayed a recent footstep.
A little further on, we came to a wide, meadow-like expanse, where the grass and weeds grew
rank and tall, and through this the path of a considerable party could be readily traced. 
Gradually becoming accustomed to this species of minute investigation, as we continued carefully
to practise it, we soon grew so expert and skilful, that things very slight in themselves,
and which would ordinarily have altogether escaped notice, sufficed to guide and direct us.

The path trodden through the meadow, led to the foot of an ascent, up which we followed the
trail slowly and with difficulty, the soil being hard, and the vegetation scanty.  On gaining
the top, we found that we had reached the eastern, or south-eastern extremity of the island,
and the sea spread before us, almost at our feet.  The trail led directly towards the edge
of a steep bank, just above the shore, near which we lost it altogether.  Morton leaped down
the bank some ten or twelve feet, while the rest of us were looking round for easier and more
gradual means of descent.  Finding a stunted tree springing from the lower ground, close against
the bluff, I leaped among its spreading branches, and climbed down its trunk to the shore,
where I found Morton searching for some traces of the party which we had tracked almost to
the edge of the height.

In a moment we were joined by Max and Browne, who had clambered down the face of the bank by
the assistance of the shrubs and bushes growing upon it.

"It is useless," said Browne, "to look here for the trail we have lost. If they descended to
the shore, it must have been in some place where Johnny and Eiulo could have got down."

"The track seemed to lead directly to the sea," said Morton, "and you must consider that a
party of savages would not find much of an obstacle in such a bank as this, and would scarcely
be as careful as ourselves of the safety of Johnny and Eiulo.  In fact, I suppose they would
hand or drop them down such a height, without scruple or ceremony.  What I now begin to fear
is, that our unfortunate companions have fallen into the hands of a party of savages, landing
here for some transient purpose, and have been carried off by them."

At this moment an exclamation from Max, who had walked a little way along the beach, announced
some discovery, and turning round we saw him beckoning to us.

"What is that?" said he, when we had joined him, stooping down, and pointing towards a clump
of stunted trees, growing in an angle or indentation, where the bluff fell back for a short
distance from the shore, "is it not a canoe drawn up under the trees?"

It was not easy to distinguish the object clearly, on account of the thickness of the foliage.
After waiting a moment, and looking carefully about, being satisfied that there was no one
in the vicinity, we approached the spot.  Max was not mistaken; a large canoe, capable of holding
fifteen or twenty persons, was lying among the bushes, where it had evidently been placed for
concealment.  In the bottom were a number of carved paddles, a mast wound about with a mat-sail,
several calabashes containing water, and some cocoa-nuts.

Having hastily noted these particulars, we withdrew to a short distance, behind a rock detached
from the bank, and surrounded by a dense growth of tangled shrubbery, to hold a consultation.

From the position in which we found the canoe, with no dwelling near that we could see, and
from the circumstance of its containing water and provisions, we inferred that it did not belong
to persons inhabiting the island, or this portion of it at any rate.  There was at least a
probability of its belonging to the party which we had tracked so nearly to the spot, and that
they were now somewhere in the neighbourhood.

"This canoe must be destroyed," said Morton, after a moment of silence, "and we had better
set about it at once."

This proposition seemed a bold and a somewhat strange one.  Browne demanded the object of such
a proceeding.

"Unless we do this," answered Morton, "our companions, if they are still alive, and in the
power of the savages, may be carried away from the island before our eyes, and separated from
us for ever.  As long as they are here, within our reach, there is hope of our being able to
rescue them; if not by force, then by some device or stratagem.  At the worst, we only run
some unnecessary risk, by what I propose.  Could we ever forgive ourselves if Arthur should
be carried off through our having omitted a precaution calculated to prevent it?"

Morton's decision and earnestness prevailed; while he undertook the work of destroying the
canoe, Max, Browne, and I, stationed ourselves at different points around the spot, so as to
give timely notice of the approach of any person.  He devoted himself to his task with such
vigour, that in a very few moments he had completely broken up the bottom of the canoe, by
repeated blows of a stone as heavy as he could lift in both hands.  Not content with this,
he disengaged the outrigger, and threw it, together with the mast and sail, into the sea.

CHAPTER THIRTY.

THE RENCONTRE.

THE TWO LEADERS--AN UNEXPECTED MEETING--THE COUNCIL OF WAR--AND WHAT FOLLOWED.

  "Now screw your courage to the sticking point."

  "With many a stiff thwack, many a bang,
  Hard crab-tree and old iron rang;
  While none who saw them could divine
  To which side conquest would incline."

I had climbed to the top of the bank as my look-out station, while the work of demolishing
the canoe was going forward, and on perceiving that Morton had accomplished his task, I was
about to descend again, when taking a final sweeping glance to the north and east, I observed
several figures moving rapidly along the beach, at a point somewhat less than a quarter of
a mile distant, of which my position commanded a view, and coming towards us.  In consequence
of the indented character of the shore, and the height of the bank bordering it for some distance,
they passed out of sight almost instantly.

Without losing a moment, I sprang down to the shore to communicate what I had seen.  Max, who
had been posted upon the beach to keep a look-out northward, ran up at the same time, having
also caught sight of the persons approaching us, as they came round a projecting point.

We now looked hurriedly around for some place of concealment, and Morton pointed out a cluster
of shrubs and rank weeds upon the verge of the bluff just above us, from which, without any
risk of being seen ourselves, we could command a view of the shore and those passing along
it.  There was but little time for deliberation or choice, and hastily summoning Browne from
his post, where he was still on the watch, we scaled the almost perpendicular face of the height,
with an ease and celerity which would have been impossible under circumstances of less excitement.

In the spot which Morton had designated, tall grass and flaunting weeds fringed the edge of
the bluff, and we threw ourselves down among them, and awaited, with almost suspended breath,
the approach of the persons I had seen.

We were scarcely settled in our hiding-place, when a half-naked figure, swinging a short club
in one hand, rushed into view.  Another, and another followed, until I had counted seven of
them.  They were well-made, athletic men, of a fine olive colour, with long straight hair falling
over their shoulders.  The maro, which is a sort of fringed belt, was their only clothing,
and they carried spears and clubs of some dark-grained wood.

Among them was one striking figure.  It was that of an old man, of large and powerful frame,
and a marked and resolute countenance, the expression of which reminded me of an old lion which
I had seen in some itinerant menagerie, years ago.  His massive head was covered with a tangled
mass of iron-grey hair that streamed like a mane over his broad shoulders.  The club which
he carried might have served Hercules himself; it certainly would have severely tasked the
strength of an ordinary man to wield it.  I observed that all of them seemed to breathe quickly
as though they had been running, or exerting themselves violently in some way; and the old
man, who came last looked backward once or twice, as they came opposite us, in a way that caused
me to suppose that they were pursued.  The one who had first come in sight, went towards the
spot where the canoe was concealed, and upon seeing its condition, uttered an exclamation of
surprise that quickly brought the others around him, when they all commenced gesticulating,
and talking in a low key, looking cautiously about every moment, as though apprehensive that
the perpetrators of the mischief might still be lurking near.

The old man, however, neither talked nor gesticulated, but stooping down, he examined the canoe
narrowly, as if to ascertain the precise extent of the injury done, and whether it admitted
of any remedy.  When he had completed his inspection he arose, and shaking his head sorrowfully,
uttered some expression, which, accompanied as it was by a threatening gesture with his ponderous
club, sounded much like an emphatic imprecation.  Morton, who was crouching close beside me,
peering cautiously through the tufts of grass, at what was going on below, gave a nervous start,
as though the consciousness of the leading part he had taken in the mischief so recently wrought,
made him consider himself the special object of the old giant's fury.  One of them having gone
back a little way along the beach, as if to reconnoitre, now returned in haste, and made some
announcement, upon hearing which the old man waved his hand, and the others immediately started
off upon a full run along the shore towards the south-west; he then followed them at a somewhat
less hurried pace.

"They are certainly pursued, judging from their actions," whispered Morton, "let us keep quiet,
and see what comes next."

But a few minutes had passed, when half a dozen savages, resembling in their appearance and
equipments those we had just seen, came in sight, running at full speed, but with the air of
pursuers rather than of fugitives.  Straggling bands of two or three each followed at short
intervals, all probably belonging to the same party, but scattered in the heat of the chase.
Altogether, there must have been as many as fifteen or twenty of them.  A tall, wild-looking
savage, large-framed, but gaunt as a greyhound, and with a kind of fierce energy in all his
movements, seemed to be the leader of the pursuing party.  Just below us on the beach, he turned
and gave some order to a portion of his followers, speaking with great rapidity, and pointing
towards the bluff; after which he darted off again along the shore at a speed that seemed really
marvellous.  Those to whom he had spoken, immediately began, as if in obedience to the order
just given, to climb the bank, not a dozen yards from the spot where we were lying.

The object of this movement undoubtedly was, to anticipate and frustrate any attempt on the
part of the fugitives, to escape, by quitting the shore and making towards the interior.  The
party thus detached had probably been directed to continue the chase, keeping to the higher
ground.  If so, they would pass quite near our place of concealment, and there was some danger
of our being discovered, to avoid which, we crouched close to the ground, and remained perfectly
silent and motionless.  The point where the savages were attempting to ascend was steep and
difficult, and several of them, apparently to disencumber themselves for the effort of climbing,
threw their clubs and spears before them to the top.  One of these weapons, a short, heavy
club, fell near me, and fearing that the owner might come to seek it, I hastily cast it to
a conspicuous place, free from vegetation, a little distance from the bank, and nearer the
spot where they were scaling it.  But the savage had probably noticed where it first fell,
for the next moment some one came running directly towards the place, and just as I was expecting
to see him stumble into the midst of us, a deep guttural exclamation announced that we were
discovered.  Any further attempt at concealment was clearly idle, and we sprang up at once;
the man was within three yards of us; he seemed quite as much startled as ourselves at so sudden
a rencontre, and after standing for a minute looking at us, he turned and ran off to his fellows.

"They will be back directly in a body," said Browne, "and we must decide quickly what we are
to do--whether to trust ourselves in their power, or to make such resistance as we can, if
they undertake to meddle with us."

"I doubt if it would be safe to trust them," said Morton, "at any rate I don't like the idea
of risking it.  There are but five or six of them; the rest are far enough off by this time."

"I wish Arthur were here," said Browne, anxiously; "he understands them and their ways, and
could tell us what we ought to do.  I don't know what the probability is of their injuring
us if we throw aside our arms and submit ourselves to them, and therefore I am loth to take
the responsibility of deciding the matter."

Meantime the savages appeared to be also holding a consultation.  They stood at a short distance
talking rapidly, and pointing towards us.  At length they began to approach the spot where
we stood, but slowly, and with some apparent hesitation.

"Well," said Browne, "we must come to a decision quickly."

"I distrust them entirely," exclaimed Morton, "I am for acting on the defensive."

"And I also," said Max, "I have no faith in them: but perhaps they won't stop to interfere
with us after all."

"Very well, then," said Browne, "we will fight if we must.  But let us stand strictly on the
defensive, and offer them no provocation."

I could not help regarding this determination as unwise, but it was the mind of the majority;
and the present was no time for divided or uncertain counsels.  I therefore kept my thoughts
to myself, and grasping my cutlass, prepared for what was to follow.

Browne and Max were armed with the "Feejee war-clubs," of the latter's manufacture: they were
long, heavy bludgeons, of the wood of the casuarina, rather too ponderous to be wielded with
one hand by a person of ordinary strength.  Morton and I were provided with cutlasses, which
we had preferred as being lighter and more convenient to carry.

The savages were armed with spears and short clubs, the former of which they presented towards
us as they advanced.

I confess that my heart began to thump against my breast with unwonted and unpleasant rapidity
and violence.  I dare say it was the same with my companions; but externally we were perfectly
composed and steady.

"There are just five of them," said Browne, "two antagonists for me, and one apiece for the
rest of you.  If any one interferes with my two I shall consider it a personal affront."

"Confound those long spears!" exclaimed Max, with a disturbed air, "they have a mighty uncomfortable
look, with those fish-bone barbs at the end of them."

The still more "uncomfortable" thought that those fish-bone barbs were perhaps poisoned, suggested
itself to me, but I considered it expedient to say nothing on the subject at the present juncture.

"Pshaw!" cried Browne, "the long spears are easily managed, if you will only remember my fencing-lessons,
and keep your nerves steady.  It is the simplest thing in the world to put aside a thrust from
such a weapon: depend upon it, those short clubs will prove much more dangerous."

The savages, having now had a sufficient opportunity to note our equipments, and our youthful
appearance, quickly lost all hesitation, and came confidently forward until they stood facing
us, at the distance of but ten or twelve feet.  Then, seeing that we maintained a defensive
attitude, they paused, and one of them, stepping a little before the rest, spoke to us in a
loud and authoritative voice, at the same time motioning us to throw aside our weapons.

"Can't you muster a few words of their heathen talk, Archer?" said Browne, "perhaps if we could
only understand one another, we should find there is no occasion for us to quarrel.  It seems
so irrational to run the risk of having our brains knocked out, if it can be avoided."

I shook my head: the few phrases which I had picked up from Arthur and Eiulo, could be of no
use for the present purpose, even if they should be understood.

The spokesman, a sinewy, hard-favoured savage, whose native ugliness was enhanced by two scars
that seamed his broad squat face, repeated the words he had before uttered, in a higher key,
and with a still more imperative air, accompanying what he said, with gestures, which sufficiently
explained what he required.

"If I understand you, my friend," said Browne, appearing to forget in the excitement of the
moment that what he was saying would be utterly unintelligible to the person he addressed,
"If I understand you, your demand is unreasonable.  Throw away your own weapons first; you
are the most numerous party:" and he imitated the gestures which the other had made use of.

The savage shook his head impatiently, and keeping his eyes steadfastly fixed upon Browne,
he began to speak in a quiet tone.  But I saw that though looking at Browne, his words were
addressed to his companions, who gradually spread themselves out in front of us and without
making any openly hostile demonstrations, handled their weapons in what seemed to me a suspicious
manner.

"Be on your guard," said I, speaking in my ordinary tone, and without looking round, "I am
sure they are meditating sudden mischief."

Scarcely were the words uttered, when, with the quickness of lightning, the spokesman hurled
his club at Browne, narrowly missing his head, then bringing his spear into a horizontal position,
he made a thrust full at his chest with his whole force.

Browne, however, was on his guard, and knocking aside the point of the spear, he swung round
his long club; and, before the other could draw back, brought it down with such effect upon
his right shoulder that his arm fell powerless to his side, and the spear dropped from his
grasp. Browne promptly set his foot upon it, and the owner, astonished and mortified, rather
than intimidated at his repulse, shrunk back without any attempt to regain it.

This attack was so sudden, and so soon foiled--being but a blow aimed, parried, and returned,
in a single breath--that no one on either side had an opportunity to interfere or join in it.
The other savages now uttered a yell, and were about to rush upon us: but the leader, as he
appeared to be, motioned them back, and they drew off to a short distance.  If we were for
a moment inclined to hope that we should now be left unmolested, we soon learned the groundlessness
of such an expectation.  The discomfited savage, instead of being discouraged by the rough
treatment he had received, was only rendered more dangerous and resolute by it; and he prepared
to renew the attack at once, having taken from one of his companions a club somewhat heavier
and longer than his own.

"I wish," said Max, drawing a long breath as he eyed these ominous proceedings, "that we had
a few of Colt's revolvers, to keep these fellows at a respectable distance: I confess I don't
like the notion of coming to such close quarters with them as they seem to contemplate."

"A genuine Yankee wish!" answered Browne, grasping his club with both hands, and planting himself
firmly, to receive the expected onset; "to make it completely in character you have only to
wish, in addition, for a mud breastwork, or a few cotton bags, between us and our friends yonder."

"Which I do, with all my heart!" responded Max, fervently.

"Let Kaiser Maximilien represent the high Dutch on this occasion," said Morton, edging himself
forward abreast of Browne, who had stationed himself a trifle in advance of the rest of us;
"he has no claim to speak for the Yankees except the mere accident of birth.  Archer and I
will uphold the honour of the stars and stripes without either revolvers or cotton bags."

"Fair play!" cried Max, pushing Browne aside, "I won't have you for a breastwork at any rate,
however much I may desire one of turf or cotton bales."  And we arranged ourselves side by side.

"Really," said Morton, with a faint apology for a smile, "it appears that we have to do with
tacticians--they are going to outflank us." This remark was caused by our antagonists separating
themselves; the leader advancing directly towards us, while the others approached, two on the
right and two on the left.

"Well," said Browne, "we shall have to form a hollow square, officers in the centre, as the
Highlanders did at Waterloo, and then I shall claim the privilege of my rank."

But our pleasantry was, as may easily be imagined, rather forced.  Our adversaries were now
evidently bent upon mischief, and thoroughly in earnest.  We were none of us veterans, and
notwithstanding an assumption of coolness, overstrained and unnatural under the circumstances,
our breath came thick and painfully with the intense excitement of the moment.

At a signal from their scarred leader, the savages rushed upon us together.  I can give no
very clear account of the confused struggle that ensued, as I was not at the time in a state
of mind favourable to calm and accurate observation.  A few blows and thrusts were exchanged;
at first cautiously, and at as great a distance as our weapons would reach; then more rapidly
and fiercely, until we became all mingled together, and soon each of us was too fully occupied
in defending himself to be able to pay much attention to any thing else.  At the commencement
of the attack I was standing next to Browne, who being evidently singled out by his former
opponent, advanced a step or two to meet him.  He skilfully parried several downright blows
from the heavy club of the latter, who in his turn dodged a swinging stroke which Browne aimed
at his head, and instantly closed with him.  The next moment they went whirling past me towards
the edge of the bank, locked together in a desperate grapple, which was the last that I saw
of them. I was assailed at the outset by an active and athletic savage, armed with a short
club.  He was exceedingly anxious to close, which I, quite naturally, was as desirous to prevent,
knowing that I should stand no chance in such a struggle, against his superior weight and strength.
While I was doing my best to keep him off with my cutlass, and he was eagerly watching an opportunity
to come to closer quarters, Morton, locked in the grasp of a brawny antagonist, came driving
directly between us, where they fell together, and lay rolling and struggling upon the ground
at our feet.  My opponent, abandoning me for a moment, was in the act of aiming a blow at Morton's
head, when I sprang forward, and cut him across the forehead with my cutlass.  The blood instantly
followed the stroke, and gushing in torrents over his face, seemed to blind him: he struck
three or four random blows in the air, then reeled and fell heavily to the ground.  Throwing
a hasty glance around, I perceived Max among some bushes at a little distance defending himself
with difficulty against a savage, who attacked him eagerly with one of those long spears, towards
which he entertained such an aversion. Browne was nowhere to be seen.  Morton and his strong
antagonist were still grappling on the ground, but the latter had gained the advantage, and
was now endeavouring, while he held Morton under him, to reach a club lying near, with which
to put an end to the struggle.  Another of the enemy was sitting a few steps off apparently
disabled, with the blood streaming from a wound in the neck.  I hastened to Morton's assistance,
whereupon his opponent, seeing my approach, sprang up and seized the club which he had been
reaching after.  But Morton gained his feet almost as soon as the other, and instantly grappled
with him again. At this moment I heard Max's voice, in a tone of eager warning, calling, "Look-out,
Archer!" and turning, I saw the savage I supposed to be disabled, with uplifted arm, in the
very act of bringing down his club upon my head.  I have a confused recollection of instinctively
putting up my cutlass, in accordance with Browne's instructions for meeting the "seventh" stroke
in the broad-sword exercise.  I have since become convinced by reflection, (to say nothing
of experience), that the principles of the broad-sword exercise, however admirable in themselves,
cannot be applied without some modification when iron-wood clubs, with huge knobs of several
pounds' weight at the ends of them, are substituted for claymores.  However, I had no time
then to make the proper distinctions, and as instead of dodging the blow, I endeavoured to
parry it, my guard was beaten down--and that is all that I can relate of the conflict, from
my own knowledge and personal observation.

CHAPTER THIRTY ONE.

RECONNOITRING BY NIGHT.

THE SEARCH RENEWED--THE CAPTIVES--ATOLLO AND THE TEWANS.

  "Trembling, they start and glance behind
  At every common forest-sound--
  The whispering trees, the moaning wind,
  The dead leaves falling to the ground;
  As on with stealthy steps they go,
  Each thicket seems to hide the foe."

From the moment when startled by Max's warning cry, I turned and saw the uplifted club of the
savage suspended over my head, all is blank in my memory, until opening my eyes with a feeling
of severe pain, and no distinct consciousness where I was, I found Browne and Max bending over
me, my head being supported upon the knee of the former.

"Well, how do you feel?" inquired he.

I stared at him a minute or two without answering, not understanding very clearly what was
the matter with me, though having at the same time a vague impression that all was not quite
right.  Gradually I collected my ideas, and at length, when Browne repeated his question the
third time, I had formed a pretty correct theory as to the cause of my present supine attitude,
and the unpleasant sensations which I experienced.

"I feel rather queer about the head and shoulders," I said, in answer to his inquiry: "I must
have got a pretty severe blow.  I suppose!"

"Yes," said Max, whose uneasy look ill agreed with his words and manner, "see what it is to
be blessed with a tough cranium; such a whack would have crushed mine like an egg-shell; but
it has only enlarged your bump of reverence a little."

"Nothing serious has happened, then--no one is badly hurt," said I, trying to look around;
but the attempt gave my neck so severe a wrench, and caused such extreme pain, that I desisted.

"No one has received any worse injury than yourself," answered Browne--"at least, none of us."

"And the savages--what has become of them?"

"We have nothing to apprehend from them at present, I think--they have been gone but a short
time, and Morton is in the tree yonder, keeping watch for their return--do you feel now as
if you can stand up and walk?"

"Certainly, I can; with the exception of the pain in my head, and a stiffness about the neck
and shoulders, I am all right, I believe."  And in order to convince Browne, who seemed somewhat
sceptical on the point, notwithstanding my assurances, I got up and walked about--carrying
my head somewhat rigidly, I dare say, for it gave me a severe twinge at every movement.

"Well," said he, "since that is the case, I think the wisest thing we can do is to leave this
neighbourhood at once."

While Max went to summon Morton from his post of observation, Browne gave me a brief and hurried
account of what had occurred after I had been felled, as related.

He, and the leader of the savages, whom I had last seen struggling upon the brink of the height,
had gone over it together; the latter, falling underneath, had been severely bruised, while
Browne himself received but little injury.

Leaving his adversary groaning and, as he supposed, mortally hurt by the fall, he had climbed
again to the higher ground, and reached it at a very critical moment.

Morton was struggling at disadvantage with the same formidable antagonist from whom he had
before been for a moment in such imminent danger; and Max was dodging about among the bushes,
sorely pressed by another of the enemy with one of those long spears, against which he entertained
so violent a prejudice.  I had just been disposed of in the manner above hinted at, by the
savage who had been wounded in the neck by Morton, at the very commencement of the affray,
and he was now at liberty to turn his attention either to Max or Morton, each of whom was already
hard bested.

Browne immediately fell upon my conqueror, almost as unexpectedly as the latter had attacked
me, and by a sudden blow stretched him senseless upon the ground.  He next relieved Morton,
by disabling his adversary. The two, then, hastened to Max's succour, but the savage who was
engaged with him, did not deem it prudent to await the approach of this reinforcement, and
made off into the forest.  They then gathered up all the weapons of the enemy, permitting Morton's
recent antagonist to limp off without molestation.  The man whom I had wounded was by this
time sitting up, wiping the blood from his face and eyes; the other, also, manifested signs
of returning consciousness; but having been deprived of their clubs and spears, no danger was
apprehended from them.  My three companions had then carried me to the spot where we now were,
from whence they had witnessed the departure of the rest of our foes.  Even the man whom Browne
had left dying on the shore, as he supposed, had managed to crawl off at last.

As soon as Max and Morton returned, we set out at once, weary as we were, for the islet in
the brook, without any very definite notion as to what was to be done next.  The prudence of
removing from our present neighbourhood was obvious, but we were still too much discomposed
and excited by what had just taken place, to have been able to decide upon any further step,
even had not the momentary apprehension of the return of the savages in greater numbers rendered
every thing like calm deliberation entirely out of the question.

We took the precaution to choose our path over the hardest and dryest ground, in order to afford
the savages the fewest possible facilities for tracing our course.  By the time we reached
the islet, we were completely out by the fatigue and excitement of the day; we must have walked
at least twelve miles since morning.

After partaking sparingly of the food which we had so fortunately brought with us, accompanied
by copious draughts of water from the brook, we began to feel somewhat refreshed.  Still we
were greatly disheartened by the gloomy and distressing circumstances, in which we found ourselves
so suddenly involved; the great uncertainty as to the fate of our companions, and the danger
that threatened our own lives from the vindictive pursuit of a numerous body of savages.  All
our energy and courage seemed for the present, at least, to be completely broken.  Browne laid
down upon a couch of dry fern beneath the many-pillared Aoa.  He looked pale and ill--more
so, I thought, than the mere effects of excitement and over-exertion could account for.

Morton soon revived the question of what was now to be done.

"I suppose we must remain here for the present, at least," said Browne, "and defend ourselves,
if attacked, as well as we can."

Max suggested Palm-Islet as a place of greater security and one where we should run less risk
of discovery.

"And meantime," said Morton, "are we to give up all attempt to find Arthur and the rest?"

"I hardly know what we can do," answered Browne, with a perplexed and discouraged air; "we
have no clue to guide us in a fresh search.  If these savages inhabit the island,--or if they
remain here,--we cannot hope to escape them long, after what has taken place; we must fall
into their hands sooner or later, and if they have captured our companions, I am willing for
my part, that it should be so.  I doubt if we acted wisely in resisting them at all,--but it
is now too late to think of that."

We continued to talk the matter over for some time, but without coming to any definite resolution,
and at length Browne dropped asleep, while we were still discussing it.

As it began to grow dark, Max became disturbed and excited.  He was possessed by a vague conviction,
for which he was unable to account, that our lost companions were in some imminent peril, from
which it was in our power to rescue them.  He was anxious to do something, and yet seemed uncertain
what to propose.  Morton was equally desirous of making a further effort to discover our lost
friends; he was also quite clear and explicit, in his notion of what ought to be done.  His
theory appeared to be, that they had fallen into the hands of the natives, whose encampment
or place of abode, (temporary or otherwise), was on the north-eastern side of the island. 
He further supposed that some feud or quarrel having arisen among themselves, the worsted party
had fled along the beach as we had witnessed, pursued by their victorious enemies,-- that in
the meantime, their captives had been left, (perhaps unguarded), at the encampment or landing-place
of the natives.  Morton was as minute and detailed in stating this hypothetical case, as if
he had either actually seen or dreamed the whole.  He proposed that as soon as the moon rose,
some of us should set off for the shore, and proceed along the beach, in the direction from
which we had seen the natives come, by pursuing which course, he was confident we should be
able to learn something respecting our companions.  This he wished to undertake alone, saying
that one person could prosecute the search as well as four, and with much less risk of discovery:
if successful in ascertaining any thing definite, he should, he said, immediately return and
apprise the rest of us.  Max eagerly embraced this suggestion, and wished to decide by lot,
which of us should carry it into execution, insisting that, otherwise, he would either set
off at once by himself, or accompany Morton.

At length Browne awoke; he said that he had derived much benefit from his two hours' sleep,
and was now ready for any necessary exertion.

He also approved of Morton's plan, but objected to his going alone, and was at first in favour
of setting out all together.  At last it was settled that the search should be undertaken by
two of us, the other two awaiting the result at the islet.  Browne then prepared four twigs
for the purpose of deciding the matter by lot, it being agreed that the one drawing the longest,
should have the choice of going or remaining, and should also select his companion.  On comparing
lots after we had drawn, mine proved to be longest; and having decided upon going, I felt bound
to name Morton as my associate, since he had been the first to suggest, and the most earnest
in urging the adventure.

An hour after dark the moon rose, and soon lighted the forest sufficiently to enable us to
see our way through it.  We then armed ourselves with a cutlass apiece, and taking leave of
Max and Browne, proceeded up the brook to the fall, where we crossed it, and, following the
rocky ridge, which ran at right angles with it, we endeavoured to hold, as nearly as possible,
the course we had taken in the morning. After leaving the stream, a good part of our way was
through the open country, where there was nothing to prevent us from seeing or being seen at
a considerable distance in the bright moonlight.  But the only alternatives were, either to
creep on our hands and knees, the whole distance from the edge of the forest to the shore,
and so avail ourselves of such concealment as the rank grass and weeds afforded,--or to push
boldly and rapidly forward, at the risk of being seen: we preferred the latter, and soon got
over this dangerous ground, running part of the time, in the most exposed places.  On reaching
the bluff, over the beach, we lay down among the bushes a few moments to recover our breath,
and reconnoitre, before taking a fresh start.  All was perfectly silent around us, and no living
thing could be seen.  When sufficiently rested, we proceeded cautiously along the edge of the
height, where we could command a view both of the beach below, and of the open country inland.
The bluff extended about a quarter of a mile, when it gradually sunk to the level of the beach,
and was succeeded by a low, flat shore, lined with large trees.  We had gone but a little way
along it after this change, when we came quite unexpectedly upon an inlet, or salt-water creek,
setting in to the land, and bordered so thickly with mangroves, that we narrowly escaped going
headlong into it, while endeavouring to force our way through the bushes to continue our course
along the beach.

It was some twenty yards wide; but I could not see how far inland it ran, on account of the
immense trees that overhung it on every side, springing up in great numbers just behind the
low border of mangroves. Holding fast by one of these bushes, I was leaning forward over the
water, looking hard into the gloom, to gain, if possible, some notion of the extent of the
inlet and the distance round it, when Morton grasped my arm suddenly--

"What is that, under the trees on the opposite shore?" whispered he; "is it not a boat?"

Looking in the direction in which he pointed, I could distinguish some object on the opposite
side of the inlet, that might from its size and shape be a boat of some kind, as he supposed,
and, continuing to gaze steadily, I made out quite plainly, against the dark masses of foliage
on the further shore, what appeared to be a white mast.  A profound silence reigned all around
us, and while I was still peering into the heavy shadow of the trees, I heard a sound which
resembled a deep, and long-drawn sigh, followed by an exclamation, as of a person in bodily pain.

"We must get round to the other side," whispered Morton, "and see what this means."

We backed out of the mangroves with the utmost caution, and inch by inch: when we had got to
such a distance as to render this extreme circumspection no longer necessary, we commenced
a wide circuit around the inlet, which proved to be only a small cove, or indentation in the
shore, extending less than a hundred yards inland.  In approaching it again on the opposite
side, we resumed all our former stealthiness of movement, feeling that our lives in all probability
depended upon our caution.

When, at last, we had got, as we supposed, quite near the place where we had seen the boat,
we proceeded, by creeping on our hands and knees through the bushes for short distances, and
then rising and looking about, to ascertain our position.

It was so dark, and the undergrowth was so dense--the moonlight scarcely penetrating the thick
foliage--that nothing could be distinguished at the distance even of a few yards, and there
was some danger that we might come suddenly, and before we were aware, upon those whom we supposed
to be already so near us.  While thus blindly groping our way towards the edge of the inlet,
I heard a voice almost beside me, which said--

"Will they never come back?--Are they going to leave us here to starve?"

The voice was that of Johnny's beyond the possibility of mistake. Turning in the direction
from which it proceeded, I saw a little to the right three figures upon the ground at the foot
of a large casuarina. Another voice, as familiar, almost immediately answered--

"I only fear that they will return too soon: have patience! in a little while I shall have
gnawed through this rope, and then I do not despair of being able to get my hands free also."

This was enough to show how matters stood.

"Are you alone?" said I, in a low voice, but loud enough to be heard by those beneath the casuarina.

There was an exclamation of joyful surprise from Johnny; then Arthur answered, "If that is
you, Archer, come and help us, for we are tied hand and foot.  You have nothing to fear; our
captors have left us quite alone."

We now came forward without further hesitation.  They were all bound fast, their hands being
tied behind them, in addition to which, each was fastened to the tree by a rope of sennit.
It would be difficult to say which party seemed most rejoiced at this sudden meeting.  As soon
as they were liberated, we embraced one another with tears of joy.

"Let us leave this place as fast as possible," said Arthur, as soon as he became a little composed,
"I expect the return of the natives every moment,--and we have more to dread from them than
you can guess.  But I find I am so stiff after lying bound here all day, that I can hardly
walk.  Now, Johnny, take my hand, and try to get along.  How is it with you, Eiulo--do you
feel able to travel fast?"

The latter appeared to understand the drift of the question, and answered by frisking and jumping
about in exultation at his recovered liberty.

Instead of returning by the way by which we had come, along the shore, we pushed on in a straight
line, in the supposed direction of the islet, in order to avoid the risk of meeting the natives.
After toiling for an hour through the woods, we emerged into the open country to the east of
the rocky ridge that traversed the course of the stream.  During this time, we had been too
fully occupied in picking our way with the necessary caution, besides the constant apprehension
of suddenly encountering the natives, to ask for any explanations.  But now we began to feel
somewhat reassured, and as we hastened on towards the islet, Arthur very briefly informed us,
that they had yesterday been suddenly surprised by a party of six natives, soon after leaving
us at the islet, and hurried off to the shore: that they had been left by their captors this
morning, secured as we had found them, and had remained in that condition until released by
us.  He added that he had more to communicate by-and-bye.

The joy of Browne and Max at our return, accompanied by the lost ones, may be imagined--but
it can scarcely be described.  In fact, I am obliged to confess that we were such children,
as to enact quite "a scene," at this unexpected meeting.  Heartfelt and sincere were the thanksgivings
we that night rendered to Him, who had kept us in perfect safety, and reunited us, after a
separation made so distressing by our uncertainty as to each other's fate.

After Arthur, Eiulo, and Johnny, had appeased their hunger with the scanty remains of our supply
of provisions, the two latter lay down upon a bed of ferns beneath the Aoa, and were soon sleeping
as soundly and peacefully, as though all our troubles and dangers were now at an end. How easily
they put in practice the philosophy that vexes itself not about the future!  Exercising the
happy privilege of childhood, they cast upon others, in whom they placed implicit confidence,
the responsibility of thinking and planning for them--free from all care and anxiety themselves.

Arthur now gave us a more detailed account of what had occurred since our separation.

"Do you remember," said he, when he had finished, "hearing Eiulo, in talking of affairs at
Tewa, make mention of a person named Atollo?"

"Atollo?" said Browne, "was not that the name of an uncle of his whom he made out to be a strange,
unnatural sort of monster, even for a heathen, and who concocted a plot for the murder of his
own father and brother, and afterwards attempted to kill Eiulo by rolling rocks down a precipice
after him in the woods!"

"The same," answered Arthur.  "I hardly supposed that you would have remembered it, as no one
but myself seemed to take much interest in Eiulo's reminiscences of Tewa, the rest of you being
obliged to get them at second-hand, through me as interpreter.  Well, that Atollo has reached
this island in some way, with a band of followers: it was by them that we were captured yesterday;
it is from his power that we have just escaped."

"What is this Atollo like?" inquired Browne.  "Is he a tall, large-framed man, but gaunt and
spare as a half-starved hound?"

"Yes, with sharp features, and a wild, restless eye."

"Why, then," continued Browne, turning to me, "it was he, who was at the head of the second
party of natives that we saw this morning by the shore."

We now gave Arthur an account of our rencontre with the savages; but no particular mention
was made of the destruction of the canoe, or of the lion-like old man who seemed to be the
leader of those who fled.

"And little Eiulo's dread of this strange uncle of his," said Browne, "is then so great, that
he preferred running away to us again, to remaining with his own people?"

"Incredible as it may seem," answered Arthur, "I am convinced that his fears are not without
foundation, and I even believe that this man intended to take his life, and would have done
so, had we not escaped."

"Incredible, indeed!" exclaimed Browne, "and what could be the motive for so atrocious a crime?"

"I know of none that seems sufficient to account for it fully, and I am therefore almost forced
to regard the man as a monomaniac."

Arthur thought that Atollo had probably made some further desperate attempt against his brother
at Tewa, and, having failed in it, had fled hither with a part of his followers, among whom
some quarrel had since arisen, in the prosecution of which they had been engaged, when we witnessed
the flight and pursuit along the shore.  This, however, was mere conjecture: they had talked
but little in his presence, and he had not been able to learn any thing from the conversation
which he had overheard, as to the cause of their coming hither.  Eiulo had been questioned
minutely by them, and from him they had ascertained that there were four more of us upon the
island.

Morton inquired of Arthur, whether he apprehended that any serious effort would be made by
the savages to find us, and what kind of treatment we should probably receive in case we should
fall into their power.

"That search will be made for us," answered the latter, "I have not the slightest doubt; and
I do not think that we can look for any mercy, if we fall into their hands, since to-day's
affray and escape."

"This feud among themselves," said Browne, "may keep them so busy as to afford no leisure for
troubling themselves about us.  I have some hope that they will use those ugly-looking clubs
upon one another, to such purpose, as to rid us of them altogether."

"That old giant," said Max, "who ran away, with such an awkward air, as if he wasn't at all
used to it, will certainly do some mischief if they once come to blows."

"Ay," pursued Browne, "though he didn't look quite so wicked and like a warlock, as the gaunt,
wild-eyed heathen that led the chase, I will warrant him his full match in fair and equal fight,
man to man."

"Well," said Arthur, who during the latter part of this conversation had been apparently engaged
in serious and perplexed thought, "for to-night, at least, we are in no danger.  Let us now
take our necessary rest, and to-morrow we shall be fresher and better prepared to decide upon
the course of action to be adopted."

CHAPTER THIRTY TWO.

THE SINGLE COMBAT.

PREPARATIONS FOR DEFENCE--A DEMAND AND REFUSAL--THE TWO CHAMPIONS.

  "On many a bloody field before--
  Man of the dark and evil heart!--
  We've met--pledged enemies of yore,
  But now we meet no more to part--
  Till to my gracious liege and lord,
  By thee of broad domains bereft,
  From thy red hand and plotting brain,
  No fear of future wrong is left."

The sense of surrounding danger with which we laid down that night upon our beds of fern beneath
the Aoa, continued to press darkly upon our minds even in sleep, and awake us at an early hour
to confront anew, the perplexities and terrors of our situation.

Arthur, in whose better understanding of the habits and character of the savages we confided,
far from affording us any additional encouragement, spoke in a manner calculated to overthrow
the very hopes, upon which we had been resting.

We had supposed that they could have no motive but the desire of revenge, for seeking or molesting
us, and as none of their number had been killed, or in all probability even dangerously injured
in the rencontre with us, we trusted that this motive would not prove strong enough to incite
them to any earnest or long-continued search.  But Arthur hinted at another object, more controlling
in the mind of their strange leader than any desire to prosecute a petty revenge, which would
impel him to seek for and pursue us, for the purpose of getting Eiulo again into his power.
This enmity--so fixed and implacable--against a mere child, seemed incredible, even after all
that had been said or suggested in explanation of it, and the explanations themselves were
far-fetched, and almost destitute of plausibility.

And how could we hope to escape a pursuit so determined and persevering as Arthur anticipated?
Whither could we flee for safety?  To think of successful resistance to Atollo and his band,
if discovered by them, seemed idle.  Max suggested Palm-Islet as the most secure retreat with
which we were acquainted.  But Arthur now broached a more startling plan.  "Nowhere upon this
island," said he, "can we longer consider ourselves secure.  The only step that holds out any
prospect of safety is to leave it in the yawl, and sail for Tewa."

"Is there any certainty," said Browne, "that we can find it?  Do we even know positively where,
or in what direction from this place it is; and shall we not incur the risk of getting lost
again at sea?"

"I would rather take that risk," said Max, "than remain here, within reach of these savages--any
thing is preferable to falling into their power."

"I confess," said Arthur, "that we know nothing certainly in regard to the distance, or even
the direction of Tewa, but I think we have good reason to believe that it lies about forty
or fifty miles to the northward."

We could not, however, bring ourselves thus suddenly to adopt a resolution so momentous, and
it was at last tacitly decided to continue for the present, at least, at the islet.

"If we are to remain here," said Arthur, on perceiving that there was no disposition to act
immediately upon any of the suggestions which had been made, "let us make such preparation
as we can, to defend ourselves if it shall be necessary."

This surprised us all; it seemed worse than useless to think of forcible resistance to a party
as numerous as that of Atollo; coming from Arthur such a suggestion was to me doubly surprising.

"I see," said he, "that the notion of attempting to defend ourselves, if discovered, seems
to you a desperate one--but I believe it to be our only course--we can expect no mercy from
Atollo."

"Surely," said Morton, "they can have no sufficient motive for murdering us in cold blood.
But, fresh from another conflict with them, we could not perhaps look for forbearance, if in
their power.  Against us they cannot now, it seems to me, cherish any feelings so vindictive
as you imply."

"And suppose it to be so?  Suppose that they merely aim at Eiulo's life, without wishing to
molest us?"

"I don't fear that I shall be misunderstood, if I speak plainly," answered Morton, after a
pause.  "It seems, from what you have intimated, that for some reason they wish to get Eiulo
into their hands; they are his own people, and their leader is his own uncle; have we any right
to refuse him to them?"

"Why, Morton!" interposed Browne, warmly, "what cold-blooded doctrine is this?"

"Have patience, a minute, and hear me out--I cannot bring myself to believe that they actually
intend him harm; I think there must be some mistake or misapprehension in regard to this alleged
design against his life, utterly improbable as it is in itself."

"But Arthur understands all that, far better than you or I," interrupted Browne, once more,
"and it is clear that the poor child stands in mortal dread of this man."

"I was going to add," resumed Morton, "that even if this danger does exist, it is entirely
out of our power to afford him protection against it: we should merely throw away our lives,
in a desperate and unprofitable attempt.  It may seem unfeeling to talk of giving him up; but
will not these people be far more likely to act with cruelty, both towards him and us, after
being excited and enraged by a fruitless opposition?  I have spoken frankly: but whatever is
soberly determined upon, however unwise in my view, I will abide by."

"I admit," answered Arthur, "that there is little prospect of success in a conflict with them:
but I regard our fate as certain if we submit, and we can but be slain in resisting.  I am
so fully satisfied of Atollo's designs in respect to him, that I should feel in giving him
up, as if I were an accessary to his murder."

"Let us rather defend ourselves to the very last extremity," said Browne, earnestly, "if we
are so unfortunate as to be found."

"If," said Max, with an excited air,--"if I really believed they would kill Eiulo, I should
say, never give him up, whatever the consequences may be;--and I do think this Atollo must
be an incarnate fiend.  I don't believe it will make any difference in their treatment of us
whether we resist or not."

"O no!" cried Johnny, who had been listening eagerly to this conversation, while Eiulo stood
looking wistfully on, as if he knew that it concerned him.  "O no! don't give him up to that
wicked man.  I would fight, myself, if I had my bow and arrows, but they took them away from
me: can't we hide ourselves in the banyan tree?--they never will think of looking for us there?"

"That is not a bad suggestion," said Morton, "and if we should be discovered, it is a strong
place to defend.  We can move easily and quickly about on that strong horizontal framework
of branches, and it will be a hazardous undertaking to climb those straight smooth trunks,
in our faces."

It seemed, in fact, as if a party stationed upon the roof, (as it might be termed), of this
singular tree, would occupy a vantage-ground from which it would require strong odds to dislodge
them, and the assailants, unless provided with fire-arms, or missile weapons, would labour
under almost insurmountable difficulties.

Arthur discovered a place where it was easy to climb quickly into the tree, and requested us
all to note it particularly, in order that we might effect a retreat without loss of time,
if it should become necessary.  Johnny and Eiulo were to take refuge there at the first alarm.

Browne proceeded to cut a number of bludgeons from stout saplings, which he then deposited
in different places among the branches, ready to be used, in defending ourselves, if pursued
thither.  Max collected a quantity of large stones, and fragments of rock, along the shore,
and from the bed of the brook, and wrapping them in parcels of leaves, he hoisted them into
the roof of the grove-tree, and secured them there.

Morton surveyed these preparations with a grave smile, and none of us, I think, placed much
reliance on their efficacy.  We trusted that there would be no occasion to resort to them.

The supply of provisions which we had brought with us was exhausted, but the painful suspense,
and constant apprehension incident to our present circumstances, long prevented any thought
of hunger.  It was not until the day had passed without any alarm, and it was beginning to
grow dark, that we experienced any inclination to eat.  Arthur and I then went in search of
food, but could obtain none, except a quantity of pandanus cones which we gathered from a group
of trees near the waterfall.  The kernels of these were the only food that any of us tasted
that day.

At night, it was deemed best to keep a watch, in order to guard against any surprise.  As we
made our arrangements for this purpose, my thoughts reverted to the time of our sufferings
at sea in the boat.  But in our present position, sought and pursued by malignant human beings,
bent upon taking our lives, and who might at that moment be prowling near, there was something
more fearful than any peril from the elements, or even the dread of starvation itself.

But the night passed without disturbance or alarm of any kind, and in the morning we began
to indulge the hope that Arthur had overrated the strength of the feelings by which Atollo
was actuated, and to shake off in some degree the profound depression of the preceding evening.

With the abatement of our fears and the partial return of tranquillity of mind, we became more
sensible to the demands of hunger.  Max and Morton ventured a little way into the adjoining
forest in search of birds, and returned in less than half an hour with about a dozen pigeons,
which they had knocked down with sticks and stones.  Arthur had in the meantime caught quite
a string of the yellow fish which had so perseveringly rejected all Max's overtures a couple
of days since. Morton then kindled a fire to cook our food, though we felt some hesitation
about this, being aware that the smoke might betray us to the savages, if they should happen
to be at the time in the neighbourhood. But Max declared that falling into their hands was
a fate preferable to starvation, and that rather than eat raw fish and birds, he would incur
the risk of discovery by means of the fire.  In the absence of cooking utensils, we hastily
scooped out a Polynesian oven, and covered the bottom with a layer of heated stones, upon which
the food, carefully wrapped in leaves, was deposited: another layer of hot stones was placed
on top, and the whole then covered with fresh leaves and earth.  This is the method adopted
by the natives for baking bread-fruit and fish, and with the exception of the trouble and delay
involved, it is equal to any thing that civilised ingenuity has devised for similar purposes,
from the old-fashioned Dutch-oven to the most recent style of "improved kitchen ranges", with
which I am acquainted.  The heat being equally diffused throughout the entire mass, and prevented
from escaping by the wrapping of leaves and earth, the subject operated upon, whether fish,
fowl, or vegetable, is thoroughly and uniformly cooked.

Max had just opened the oven, and was busily engaged in taking out and distributing the contents,
while the rest of us were gathered in a group around the spot, when Eiulo suddenly uttered
a shrill cry, and springing up, stood gazing towards the west side of the brook, as if paralysed
by terror.

Looking up, we saw two natives standing at the edge of the wood quietly watching us.  One of
them I at once recognised as the lithe and active leader, whom I had seen upon the shore in
swift pursuit of the fugitives.

Our first impulse, was to spring at once into the Aoa, according to the understanding to which
we had partially come, as to what we were to do if discovered.  But a second glance showed
that there were but two enemies in sight, and as Arthur, to whom we looked for an example,
gave no signal for such a retreat, we hastily snatched up our weapons, and placed ourselves
beside him.

Atollo's quick eye--for it was he--ran from one to another of us, until it rested upon Eiulo,
when coming down to the margin of the brook, he pronounced his name in a low, clear voice,
and beckoned him with his hand to come over to him.

Pale and trembling, like a bird under the charm of the serpent, Eiulo made two or three uncertain
steps towards him, as if about mechanically to obey the summons: then, as Johnny seized the
skirt of his wrapper, and called out to him, "not to mind that wicked man," he paused, and
looked round upon us with a glance, half appealing, half inquiring, which said more plainly
than words--"Must I go?--Can you protect me--and will you?"

Arthur now stepped before him, and addressed some words to Atollo in his own language, the
purport of which I could only guess.

The other listened attentively without evincing any surprise, and then made answer, speaking
rapidly and by jerks as it were, and scanning us all the while with the eye of a hawk.

When he had finished, Arthur turned to us.  "This man requires us, he said, to give up Eiulo
to him; he claims him as his brother's son, and says that he wishes to convey him home to Tewa.
He promises to leave us unmolested if we comply, and threatens us with death if we refuse:
you see it concerns us all--what do you say?"

Arthur was very pale.  He looked towards Morton, who said nothing, but stood leaning against
one of the pillars of the Aoa, with his eyes steadfastly bent upon the ground.

"Ask Eiulo," said Browne, "if this man is his uncle."

The question was accordingly put, and the trembling boy answered hesitatingly, that he did
not know--but he believed that he was.

"Ask him," pursued Browne, "if he is willing to go with him."

Arthur put the question formally, and Eiulo, grasping his arm, while Johnny still held fast
by his skirt, answered with a shudder that he was afraid to go with him.

"Ask him why he is afraid," continued Browne.

The answer was, that he believed his uncle would kill him.

These questions were put loud enough to be easily heard by Atollo, and Arthur deliberately
repeated the answers first in Tahitian, and then in English.

"Well," said Browne, "I am now quite ready with an answer, as far as I am concerned.  I never
will consent to give up the poor boy to be murdered.  He is old enough to choose for himself
and I think it would be right to resist the claim even of a father, under such circumstances."

"Is that to be our answer?" said Arthur, looking round.

It was a bold stand to take, situated as we were, and we felt it to be so; but it seemed a
hard and cruel thing to yield up our little companion to the tender mercies of his unnatural
relative.  Though there were pale cheeks and unsteady hands among us, as we signified our concurrence
in this refusal, (which we all did except Morton, who remained silent), yet we experienced
a strange sense of relief when it was done, and we stood committed to the result.

Arthur now motioned Johnny and Eiulo to climb into the tree, then turning to Atollo, he said
that as the boy preferred remaining with us, we were resolved to protect him to the extent
of our ability.

By this time we had somewhat regained our self-possession, and stood grasping our weapons,
though not anticipating any immediate attack. Much to my surprise, Atollo had during the conference
manifested neither anger nor impatience.  When Arthur announced our refusal to comply with
his demand, he merely noticed with a smile our belligerent attitude, and advanced into the
brook as if about to come over to the islet, swinging a long curving weapon carelessly by his
side, and followed by the other savage.

Browne, holding his club in his left hand, and a heavy stone in his right, stood beside me,
breathing hard through his set teeth.

"The foolish heathen!" exclaimed he, "does he expect to subdue us by his looks,--that he comes
on in this fashion?"

It did, in fact, seem as though he supposed that we would not dare to commence an attack upon
him, for he continued to advance, eyeing us steadily.  Just as he gained the middle of the
brook, three or four more savages came out of the forest, and one of them ran towards him,
with an exclamation which caused him to turn at once, and on hearing what the other eagerly
uttered, with gestures indicating some intelligence of an urgent and exciting character, he
walked back to the edge of the wood, and joined the group gathered there.

A moment afterwards, Atollo, attended by the messenger, as he appeared to be, plunged into
the forest, first giving to the others, who remained upon the shore, some direction, which
from the accompanying gesture, appeared to have reference to ourselves.

Johnny and Eiulo had already climbed into the Aoa, whither we stood ready to follow, at a moment's
notice.  The group of savages opposite us seemed to have no other object in view than to prevent
our escape, for they did not offer to molest us.  Soon after Atollo disappeared, two more of
his party came out of the wood, and I immediately recognised one of them, who walked stiffly
and with difficulty, seeming but just able to drag himself about, as the scarred savage with
whom Browne had had so desperate a struggle.  We now thought it prudent to effect our retreat
into the tree without further loss of time, but at the first movement which we made for that
purpose, the natives set up a shout, and dashed into the water towards us, probably thinking
that we were about to try to escape by getting to the further shore.

They pressed us so closely that we had not a moment to spare, and had barely climbed beyond
their reach when they sprang after us.  One active fellow caught Browne, (who was somewhat
behind the rest), by the foot, and endeavoured to drag him from the trunk he was climbing,
in which he would probably have succeeded, had not Max let fall a leaf-basket of stones directly
upon his head, which stretched him groaning upon the ground, with the blood gushing from his
mouth and nose.

At this moment Atollo himself, with the rest of his party, joined our besiegers below, and
at a signal from him, the greater part of them immediately commenced scaling the tree at different
points.  Our assailants numbered not more than thirteen or fourteen, including Browne's former
foe, who did not seem to be in a condition to climb, and the man recently wounded, who was
still lying upon the ground, apparently lifeless.  We felt that we were now irrevocably committed
to a struggle of life and death, and we were fully determined to fight manfully, and to the
very last.  We stationed ourselves at nearly equal distances among the branches, armed with
the bludgeons previously placed there, so as to be able to hasten to any point assailed, and
to assist one another as occasion should require.  The savages yelled and screeched hideously,
with the hope of intimidating us, but without any effect, and we kept watching them quietly,
and meeting them so promptly at every point, that they were uniformly obliged to quit their
hold and drop to the ground before they could effect a lodgment among the branches.  Occasionally
we addressed a word of encouragement to one another, or uttered an exclamation of triumph at
the discomfiture of some assailant more than ordinarily fierce and resolute.  But with this
exception, we were as quiet as if industriously engaged in some ordinary occupation.  This
lasted for full fifteen minutes, without our enemies having gained the slightest advantage.
Atollo himself had not, thus far, taken any part in the attack, except to direct the others.

At length, he fixed his eye upon Browne, who stepping about in the top of the tree with an
agility that I should not have expected from him, and wielding a tremendous club, had been
signally successful in repelling our assailants.  After watching him a moment, he suddenly
commenced climbing a large stem near him, with the marvellous rapidity that characterised all
his movements.  Browne had just tumbled one of the savages to the ground howling with pain,
from a crushing blow upon the wrist, and he now hastened to meet this more formidable foe.
But he was too late to prevent him from getting into the tree, and he had already gained a
footing upon the horizontal branches, when Browne reached the spot.  Atollo was without any
weapon, and this was a disadvantage that might have rendered all his strength and address unavailing,
had not the foliage and the lesser branches of the tree, interfered with the swing of the long
and heavy weapon of his adversary, and the footing being too insecure to permit it to be used
with full effect.  As Browne steadied himself and drew back for a sweeping blow, Atollo shook
the boughs upon which he stood, so violently, as greatly to break the force of the stroke,
which he received upon his arm, and rushing upon him before he could recover his weapon, he
wrested it from his grasp, and hurled him to the ground, where he was instantly seized and
secured by those below.

While Atollo, armed with Browne's club, advanced upon Max and Arthur, who were nearest him,
several of his followers, taking advantage of the diversion thus effected, succeeded in ascending
also, and in a few moments they were making their way towards us from all sides.  Leaving them
to complete what he had so well begun, Atollo hastened towards the spot where Johnny and Eiulo
were endeavouring to conceal themselves among the foliage.  Though now outnumbered, and hopeless
of success, we continued a desperate resistance.  The ferocity of our adversaries was excited
to the highest pitch.  There was scarcely one of them who had not received some injury in the
attack, sufficiently severe to exasperate, without disabling him.  We had used our clubs with
such vigour and resolution in opposing their attempts at climbing, that every second man at
least, had a crushed hand or a bruised head, and all had received more or less hard blows.
Smarting with pain, and exulting in the prospect of speedy and ample revenge, they pressed
upon us with yells and cries that showed that there was no mercy for us if taken. But even
at that trying moment our courage did out fail or falter.  We stood together near the centre
of the tree, where the branches were strong and the footing firm.  Only a part of our assailants
had weapons, and, perceiving the utter desperation with which we fought, they drew back a little
distance until clubs could be passed up from below, and thus afforded us a momentary respite.
But we well knew that it was only momentary, and that in their present state of mind, these
men would dispatch us with as little scruple as they would mischievous wild beasts hunted and
brought to bay.

"Nothing now remains," said Morton, "but to die courageously: we have done every thing else
that we could do."

"It does appear to have come to that at last," said Arthur.  "If I did unwisely in advising
resistance, and perilling your lives as well as my own, I now ask your forgiveness; on my own
account I do not regret it."

"There is nothing to forgive," answered Morton, "you did what you believed was right, and if
I counselled otherwise, you will do me the justice to believe that it was because I differed
with you in judgment, and not because I shrunk from the consequences."

"I never did you the injustice to think otherwise," answered Arthur.

"If our friends could but know what has become of us," said Max, brushing away a tear, "and
how we died here, fighting manfully to the last, I should feel more entirely resigned; but
I cannot bear to think that our fate will never be known."

"Here they come once more," said Arthur, as the savages, having now obtained their weapons,
advanced to finish their work, "and now, may God have mercy upon us!"

We all joined devoutly in Arthur's prayer, for we believed that death was at hand.  We then
grasped our weapons, and stood ready for the attack.

At this instant a long and joyous cry from Eiulo reached our ears.  For several minutes he
had been eluding the pursuit of Atollo with a wonderful agility, partly the effect of frantic
dread.  Just when it seemed as though he could no longer escape, he suddenly uttered this cry,
repeating the words, "Wakatta!  Wakatta!"--then springing to the ground, he ran towards the
brook, but was intercepted and seized by one of the savages below.

There was an immediate answer to Eiulo's cry, in one of the deepest and most powerful voices
I had ever heard, and which seemed to come from the west shore of the stream.  Looking in that
direction I saw, and recognised at once, the lion-like old man, who had fled along the beach,
pursued by Atollo and his party.  Several men, apparently his followers, stood around him.
He now bounded across the stream, towards the spot where Eiulo was still struggling with his
captor, and calling loudly for help.

Atollo instantly sprang to the ground, and flew to the spot; then, with a shrill call, he summoned
his men about him.  Eiulo's outcry, and the answer which had been made to it, seemed to have
produced a startling effect upon Atollo and his party.  For the moment we appeared to be entirely
forgotten.

"This must be Wakatta," said Arthur eagerly, "it can be no other.  There is hope yet."  With
a rapid sign for us to follow, he glided down the nearest trunk, and, darting past Atollo's
party, he succeeded in the midst of the confusion, in reaching the old man and his band, who
stood upon the shore of the islet.  Morton and I were equally successful. Max, who came last,
was observed, and an effort made to intercept him. But dodging one savage, and bursting from
the grasp of another, who seized him by the arm as he was running at full speed, he also joined
us, and we ranged ourselves beside Wakatta and his men.  Browne, Eiulo, and Johnny, were prisoners.

It now seemed as though the conflict was about to be renewed upon more equal terms.  Our new
and unexpected allies numbered seven, including their venerable leader.  On the other hand,
our adversaries were but twelve, and of these, several showed evident traces of the severe
usage they had recently received, and were hardly in a condition for a fresh struggle.

There was a pause of some minutes, during which the two parties stood confronting each other,
with hostile, but hesitating looks.  Wakatta then addressed a few words to Atollo, in the course
of which he several times repeated Eiulo's name, pointing towards him at the same time, and
appearing to demand that he should be released.

The reply was an unhesitating and decided refusal, as I easily gathered from the look and manner
that accompanied it.

Wakatta instantly swung up his club, uttering a deep guttural exclamation, which seemed to
be the signal for attack, for his people raised their weapons and advanced as if about to rush
upon the others. We had in the meantime provided ourselves with clubs, a number of which were
scattered about upon the ground, and we prepared to assist the party with whom we had become
so strangely associated.

But at a word and gesture from Atollo, Wakatta lowered his weapon again, and the men on both
sides paused in their hostile demonstrations, while their leaders once more engaged in conference.

Atollo now seemed to make some proposition to Wakatta, which was eagerly accepted by the latter.
Each then spoke briefly to his followers, who uttered cries of the wildest excitement, and
suddenly became silent again.  The two next crossed together to the opposite shore, and while
we stood gazing in a bewildered manner at these proceedings, and wondering what could be their
meaning, the natives also crossed the brook, and formed a wide circle around their chiefs,
on an open grassy space at the edge of the forest.  We still kept with Wakatta's party, who
arranged themselves in a semicircle behind him.

"What does this mean!" inquired Morton of Arthur, "it looks as though they were about to engage
in single combat."

"That is in fact their purpose," answered Arthur.

"And will that settle the difficulty between these hostile parties?" said Morton, "will there
not be a general fight after all, whichever leader is victor?"

"I rather think not," answered Arthur, "the party whose champion falls, will be too much discouraged
to renew the fight--they will probably run at once."

"Then our situation will be no better than before, in case the old warrior should prove unfortunate.
Can't you speak to his followers and get them to stand ready to attack their enemies if their
chief falls."

"I will try what I can do," answered Arthur, "and let us be ready to act with them."

Meantime the two principal parties had completed their preparations for the deadly personal
combat, in which they were about to engage.  Atollo took from one of his followers a long-handled
curving weapon, the inner side of which was lined with a row of sharks' teeth, and then placed
himself in the middle of the open space, first carefully kicking out of the way a number of
fallen branches which strewed the ground.  His manner was confident, and clearly bespoke an
anticipated triumph.

Wakatta was armed with the massive club, set with spikes of iron-wood, which he carried when
I first saw him upon the shore.  He advanced deliberately towards his adversary, until they
stood face to face, and within easy reach of one another's weapons.

The men on both sides remained perfectly quiet, eyeing every movement of their respective champions
with the intensest interest.  In the breathless silence that prevailed, the gentle murmur of
the brook sliding over its pebbly bed, and even the dropping of a withered leaf, could be heard
distinctly.

Glancing over to the islet, I saw that Browne, although his hands appeared to be bound behind
him, had rolled himself to the edge of the brook, from which he was watching what was going
forward.

Each of the two combatants regarded the other with the air of a man conscious that he is about
to meet a formidable adversary; but in Atollo's evil eye, there gleamed an assured and almost
exulting confidence, that increased my anxiety for his aged opponent; his manner, nevertheless,
was cautious and wary, and he did not suffer the slightest movement of Wakatta to escape him.

They stood opposite each other, neither seeming to be willing to commence the conflict, until
Wakatta, with an impatient gesture, warned his adversary to defend himself, and then swinging
up his ponderous club in both hands, aimed a blow at him, which the other avoided by springing
lightly backwards.

And now the fight commenced in earnest.  Atollo made no attempt to guard or parry the blows
levelled at him--which would indeed have been idle-- but with astonishing agility and quickness
of eye, he sprang aside, or leaped back, always in time to save himself.  He kept moving around
the old man, provoking his attacks by feints and half-blows, but making no serious attack himself.
There was a cool, calculating expression upon his sharp and cruel countenance, and he did not
appear to be half so earnest or excited as his antagonist.  I saw plainly that the wily savage
was endeavouring to provoke the other to some careless or imprudent movement, of which he stood
ready to take instant and fatal advantage.

At length some such opportunity as he was waiting for, was afforded him. The old warrior, growing
impatient of this indecisive manoeuvring, began to press his adversary harder, and to follow
him up with an apparent determination to bring matters to a speedy issue.  Atollo retreated
before him, until he was driven to the edge of the brook, where he paused, as if resolved to
make a stand.  Wakatta now seemed to think that he had brought his foe to bay, and whirling
round his club, he delivered a sweeping blow full at his head with such fury, that when Atollo
avoided it by dropping upon one knee, the momentum of the ponderous weapon swung its owner
half round, and before he had time to recover himself, his watchful adversary, springing lightly
up, brought down his keen-edged weapon full upon his grey head, inflicting a ghastly wound.

And now Atollo's whole demeanour changed: the time for caution and coolness was passed; the
moment for destroying his disabled foe had come.  While his followers set up an exulting yell,
he darted forward to follow up his advantage: the triumphant ferocity of his look is not to
be described.  Wakatta was yet staggering from the effect of the blow upon his head, when he
received a second, which slightly gashed his left shoulder, and glancing from it, laid open
his cheek.  But to my astonishment, the strong old man, cruelly wounded as he was, seemed to
be neither disabled nor dismayed.  The keen-edged, but light weapon of Atollo was better calculated
to inflict painful wounds than mortal injuries.  Either blow, had it been from a weapon like
that of Wakatta, would have terminated the combat.

Before Atollo could follow up his success by a third and decisive stroke, the old warrior had
recovered himself and though bleeding profusely, he looked more formidable than ever.  He at
once resumed the offensive, and with such vigour, that the other, with all his surprising activity,
now found it difficult to elude his rapid but steady attacks. He was now thoroughly aroused.
Atollo seemed gradually to become confused and distressed, as he was closely followed around
the circle without an instant's respite being allowed him.  At last he was forced into the
stream, where he made a desperate stand, with the manifest determination to conquer or perish
there.  But Wakatta rushed headlong upon him, and holding his club in his right hand, he received
upon his left arm, without any attempt to avoid it, a blow which Atollo aimed at his head:
at the same instant he closed, and succeeded in seizing his adversary by the wrist.  Once in
the old man's grasp, he was a mere child, and in spite of his tremendous efforts, his other
hand was soon mastered, and he was thrown to the ground.  It was a horrible scene that followed.
I wished that the life of the vanquished man could have been spared.  But his excited foe had
no thought of mercy, and shortening his club, he held him fast with one hand, and despatched
him at a single blow with the other.

CHAPTER THIRTY THREE.

THE MIGRATION.

A TEWAN MD--EXCHANGE OF CIVILITIES--MAX'S FAREWELL BREAKFAST--A GLANCE AT THE FUTURE.

  "We go from the shores where those blue billows roll,
  But that Isle, and those waters, shall live in my soul."

As the victor rose to his feet, his followers uttered a fierce yell, and precipitated themselves
upon the opposite party, which instantly dispersed and fled.

Wakatta cast a half-remorseful glance at the corpse of his adversary, and, raising his powerful
voice, recalled his men from the pursuit. Then wading into the brook, he began to wash the
gore from his head and face: one of his people, who from his official air of bustling alacrity,
must have been a professional character, or at least an amateur surgeon, examined the wounds,
and dexterously applied an improvised poultice of chewed leaves to his gashed face, using broad
strips of bark for bandages.

Meantime Arthur hastened over to the islet, and released our companions from the ligatures
of tappa which confined their limbs.  Eiulo was no sooner freed, than he ran eagerly to Wakatta,
who took him in his arms, and embraced him tenderly.  After a rapid interchange of questions
and replies, during which they both shed tears, they seemed to be speaking of ourselves, Eiulo
looking frequently towards us, and talking with great animation and earnestness.  They then
approached the place where we were standing, and Wakatta spoke a few words, pointing alternately
from Eiulo to us.  Arthur made some reply, whereupon the old warrior went to him, and bending
down his gigantic frame gave him a cordial hug; his fresh bandaged wounds probably caused him
to dispense with the usual ceremony of rubbing faces.

"I expect it will be our turn next," said Max, with a grimace, "if so, observe how readily
I shall adapt myself to savage etiquette, and imitate my example."

It proved as he anticipated, for Wakatta, who must have received a highly flattering account
of us from Eiulo, was not satisfied until he had bestowed upon each one of us, Johnny included,
similar tokens of his regard, Max rushing forward, with an air of "empressement," and taking
the initiative, as he had promised.  The "surgeon," who seemed to think that some friendly
notice might also be expected from him, in virtue of his official character, now advanced with
a patronising air, and in his turn paid us the same civilities, not omitting the rubbing of
faces, as his chief had done.  Another one of our "allies," as Max called them, a huge, good-natured-looking
savage, picked up Johnny, very much as one would a lap-dog or a pet kitten, and began to chuck
him under the chin, and stroke his hair and cheeks, greatly to the annoyance of the object
of these flattering attentions, who felt his dignity sadly compromised by such treatment.

As soon as these friendly advances were over, Arthur entered into a conversation with Wakatta,
which, from the earnest expression of the countenance of the latter, appeared to relate to
something of great interest.  Presently he spoke to his men, who seized their weapons with
an air of alacrity, as if preparing for some instant expedition, and Arthur, turning to us,
said that we must set out in a body for the inlet where we had seen the canoe of the other
party, as it was thought of the utmost importance to secure it if possible.  We started at
once, at a rapid rate, Wakatta leading the way, with tremendous strides, and the big, good-natured
fellow, taking Johnny upon his back, in spite of his protestations that he could run himself,
quite as fast as was necessary. But on reaching the inlet we found that the other party had
been too quick for us; they were already through the surf, and under sail, coasting along towards
the opening in the reef opposite Palm-Islet, probably with the intention of returning to Tewa.

It is now eight days since the events last narrated took place.  On the day succeeding, we
buried Atollo on the shore opposite Banyan islet, together with one of his followers, who had
also been killed or mortally wounded in the conflict with us.  Two others of them, who were
too badly hurt to accompany the hasty flight to the inlet, are still living in the woods, Wakatta
having strictly forbidden his people to injure them.

I ought here to explain the circumstances, as Arthur learned them from Wakatta, which brought
the natives to our island.  A civil war had recently broken out in Tewa, growing out of the
plots of the Frenchmen resident there, and some discontented chiefs who made common cause with
them.  One of the foreigners, connected by marriage with the family of a powerful chief, had
been subjected by the authority of Eiulo's father, to a summary and severe punishment, for
an outrage of which he had been clearly convicted.  This was the immediate cause of the outbreak.
Atollo and his followers had issued from their fastnesses and joined the insurgents; a severe
and bloody battle had been fought, in which they were completely successful, taking the chief
himself prisoner, and dispersing his adherents.

Wakatta, attended by the six followers now with him, was at this time absent upon an excursion
to a distant part of the island, and the first intelligence which he received of what had taken
place, was accompanied by the notice that Atollo, with a formidable band, was then in eager
search of him.  Knowing well the relentless hatred borne him by that strange and desperate
man, and that Tewa could furnish no lurking-place where he would be long secure from his indefatigable
pursuit, he had hastily embarked for the island where he had once before taken refuge, under
somewhat similar circumstances.  Hither his implacable foe had pursued him.  This statement
will sufficiently explain what has been already related.

All our plans are yet uncertain.  Wakatta meditates a secret return to Tewa, confident that
by his presence there, now that the formidable Atollo is no more, he can restore his chief
to liberty and to his hereditary rights, if he yet survives.

An experiment has been made with the yawl, in order to ascertain whether she can safely convey
our entire party, savage and civilised, in case we should conclude to leave the island.  The
result showed that it would scarcely be prudent for so great a number to embark in her upon
a voyage to Tewa, and Wakatta and his people have now commenced building a canoe, which is
to be of sufficient size to carry twenty persons.

Browne's prejudices against the "heathen savages," have been greatly softened by what he has
seen of these natives, and he says that, "if the rest of them are equally well-behaved, one
might manage to get along with them quite comfortably."  Max has taken a great fancy to Wakatta,
whom he emphatically pronounces "a trump," a "regular brick," besides bestowing upon him a
variety of other elegant and original designations, of the like complimentary character.  This
may be owing in part, to the fact, that the old warrior has promised him a bread-fruit plantation,
and eventually a pretty grand-daughter of his own for a wife, if he will accompany him to Tewa
and settle there.

As the preparations of our allies advance towards completion, we are more and more reconciled
to the thought of embarking with them.  Johnny has already commenced packing his shells and
"specimens" for removal. Max has ascertained, greatly to his relief, for he had some doubts
on the subject, that the gridiron and other cooking utensils can be stowed safely in the locker
of the yawl, and he anticipates much benevolent gratification in introducing these civilised
"institutions," among the barbarians of Tewa.

The intestine feuds which still rage there, and the probability that "our side," will find
themselves in the minority, furnish the chief grounds of objection to the step contemplated.
But we would cheerfully incur almost any danger that promises to increase our prospect of ultimately
reaching home.

There is some talk of a preliminary reconnoitring expedition, by Wakatta and two or three of
his people, for the purpose of getting some definite information as to the present position
of affairs at Tewa, before setting out for it in a body.  Max, yesterday, finished his miniature
ship, and exhorted me to "wind up" our history forthwith, with a Homeric description of the
great battle at the islet, and our heroic defence of the banyan tree.  He declares it to be
his intention to enclose the manuscript in the hold of the vessel and launch her when half-way
to Tewa, in the assured confidence that the winds and waves will waft it to its destination,
or to use his own phrase,--"that we shall yet be heard of in Hardscrabble."

Five days ago, the canoe was completed, and on the succeeding afternoon, Wakatta, accompanied
by "the doctor," and two other of his people, sailed for Tewa, for the purpose of endeavouring
to learn whether it would be prudent for us to venture thither at present.

We have been living of late at the cabin, and our "allies" have made an encampment by the lake,
within a hundred paces of us.  The state of feverish expectation naturally produced by our
present circumstances, prevents any thing like regular occupation.  We do nothing all the day
but wander restlessly about among the old haunts which were our favourites in the peaceful
time of our early sojourn here.  Max has endeavoured to relieve the tedium, and get up an interest
of some sort, by renewing his attempts against the great eel.  But the patriarch is as wary,
and his stronghold beneath the roots of the buttress tree as impregnable as ever, and all efforts
to his prejudice, whether by force or stratagem, still prove unavailing.  To escape, in some
measure, the humiliation of so mortifying a defeat, Max now affects to be convinced that his
venerable antagonist is no eel after all, but an old water-snake, inheriting his full share
of the ancient wisdom of the serpent, and by whom it is consequently no disgrace for any mortal
man to be outwitted.

For several days past we have even neglected preparing any regular meals, satisfying our hunger
as it arose with whatever could be most readily procured.

Max pronounces this last, "an alarming indication of the state of utter demoralisation towards
which we are hastening, and, in fact, the commencement of a relapse into barbarism."

"One of the chief points of difference," he says, "between civilised and savage man, is, that
the former eats at stated and regular intervals, as a matter of social duty, whereas the latter
only eats when he is hungry!"

Two days later.  Wakatta has returned from his expedition, full of hope and confidence, and
actually looking ten years younger than when I first saw him.  He says that the position of
affairs at Tewa is most promising.  The recently victorious rebels have fallen into fierce
contentions among themselves, and a large faction of them, with the leaders of which he has
entered into communication, is willing to unite with him against the others, upon being assured
of indemnity for past offences.  Eiulo's father still lives, and has already gathered the nucleus
of a force capable of retrieving his fortunes.

All is now finally determined upon, and we only wait for a favourable breeze to bid adieu to
these shores.

The morning of Wakatta's return, also witnessed another event of nearly equal importance. 
I allude to a great farewell breakfast, given by Max in celebration of our approaching departure,
as well as for the purpose of stemming the current of the demoralising influence above alluded
to. The "founder of the feast," together with Eiulo and Johnny, was up preparing it with his
own hospitable hands, a full hour before the rest of us were awake.

It consisted of all the delicacies and luxuries that our island can afford: there were roasted
oysters fresh from the shore, and poached eggs fresh from the nest, (Max had despatched one
of the natives to Sea-birds' Point after them before daylight); then there were fish nicely
broiled, and mealy taro, and baked bread-fruit hot from a subterranean Polynesian oven.

In the enjoyment of this generous fare, our drooping spirits rose, and Max, as was his wont,
became discursive.

"What a humiliating reflection," exclaimed he, "that we should have permitted ourselves to
be so disturbed and fluttered, by the prospect of a slight change in our affairs!  Why should
we distrust our destiny, or shrink from our mission?  Why these nervous apprehensions, and
these unreasonable doubts?"--(Hear! hear!)

  "`There is a providence that shapes our ends,
  Rough-hew them how we will.'

"Let us accept, then, the belief which all things tend to confirm, that a glorious future awaits
us in our new sphere of action at Tewa!"

"Ah!" sighed Browne, after a momentary pause, "Tewa may be a fine place--but I doubt if they
have any such oysters as these there."  The action accompanying these words must have given
Eiulo a clue to their purport, for he hastened eagerly to protest, through Arthur, as interpreter,
that the oysters at Tewa were much larger and fatter; he added, "that since we liked them so
much, he would have them all `tabooed,' as soon as we arrived, so that `common people,' wouldn't
dare for their lives to touch one."

"I used to regard the `taboo,'" said Browne, "as an arbitrary and oppressive heathen custom.
But how ignorant and prejudiced we sometimes are in regard to foreign institutions!  We must
be very careful when we get there about introducing rash innovations upon the settled order
of things."

"We will establish an enlightened system of common schools," said Max, "to begin with, and
Arthur shall also open a Sunday-school."

"And in the course of time we will found a college, in which Browne shall be professor of Elocution
and Oratory," said Morton.

"And you," resumed Max, "shall have a commission as Major-General in the Republican army of
Tewa, which you shall instruct in modern tactics, and lead to victory against the rebels."

"In the Royal army, if you please," interrupted Browne; "Republicanism is one of those crude
and pestilent innovations which I shall set my face against!  Can any one breathe so treasonable
a suggestion in the presence of the heir-apparent to the throne?--If such there be, Major-General
Morton, I call upon you to attach him for a traitor!"

"And I," cried Johnny, "what shall I do!"

"Why," answered Max, "you shall rejoice the hearts of the Tewan juveniles, by introducing among
them the precious lore of the story-books.  The rising generation shall no longer remain in
heathen ignorance of Cinderella, and Jack of the Bean-stalk, and his still more illustrious
cousin, the Giant-killer!  The sufferings of Sinbad, the voyages of Gulliver, the achievements
of Munchausen, the adventures of Crusoe, shall yet become to them familiar as household words!"

"And Archer's mission shall be no less dignified and useful," resumed Browne, "he shall keep
the records of the monarchy, and become the faithful historian of the happy, prosperous, and
glorious reign of Eiulo the First!"

THE END.

