All these and many other questions are answered in

Prof. Andrews Great Book

What Shall We Eat?

The Food Question from the standpoint of Health, Strength and Economy. Indicating Best Foods
for all Classes and Conditions.

This work covers every phase of the food question in a practical way.

Shows how food is digested and gives the constituent elements of all food products, their cost,
food values, time of digestion, etc., Comparative value of beef, mutton, pork, eggs, fish,
fowl, oysters, the grains, breads, peas, beans, milk, butter, cheese, sugar, beer, fruits,
nuts, etc., which make flesh, bone, nerve; which gives most for least money. 25 tables showing
results of nearly 1500 food analyses. Price in leatherette binding, 50 cents, cloth 75 cents,
postpaid.

If not satisfied money promptly returned. Every man should order this for his wife, or some
other woman. Send stamps.

The Enlightened Life and How to Live it

By W. R. C. LATSON, M. D.

Author of "Common Disorders," "The Attainment of Efficiency," "Food Value of Meat," Etc.

This work contains a collection of Dr. Latson's strong editorials that have appeared in Health-Culture,
carefully revised and enlarged, with other matter. The great interest that has been manifested
in these leaders will insure a demand for this work. The scope will be seen from the following
chapter headings:

Introduction--The Ultimate Ideal--The Mind and Its Body--What Shall a Man Take in Exchange
for His Soul?--Health as an Asset--The Waste of Life--Health as a Factor in Business Success--The
Causation of Disease--Are Weakness and Disease Increasing?--The Detection of Disease--The Prevention
of Disease--Heredity and Disease--Disease: Its Nature and Conquest--Methods of Healing--Drug
Medication in the Treatment of Disease--Religion and Medicine--Worry the Epidemic of the Day--Race
Suicide--"Race Suicide," Pro and Con--Simplified Living--The Death-Dealing Detail--The Slaughter
of the Innocents--Crimes Against Children--Sleep and Rest--Mental and Physical Effects of Music--The
Common Sense of Foods and Feeding--The Mission of Pain--Drugs--The Surgical Operation Frenzy--Vaccination;
Blessing or Curse?--Free Water Drinking as a Hygienic Measure--Evil Effects of Alcohol--The
Pinnacles of Absurdity.

Published in large, clear type, handsomely bound in cloth. Price, sent prepaid, $1.00.

The Health Culture Magazine

ELMER LEE., A. M., M. D., EDITOR

PRINCIPLES AND OBJECTS

Health Culture seeks the advancement of humanity by declaring the obvious teachings of nature.

Health Culture aims to educate the people out of superstition, misunderstanding and fear arising
from the imperfect interpretation of natural principles.

Health Culture recognizes that health and comfort, happiness and long life are desirable and
attainable by the faithful observance of hygiene. That neglect and abuse of natural and simple
living inevitably leads to weakness, degeneracy, disease and death.

Health Culture from the scientific sense as well as on grounds of sentiment opposes the taking
of life needless to obtain food for man.

Health Culture holds that food products of the vegetable kingdom are ample and favorable for
a safe, complete and full development of the kingdom of man.

Health Culture opposes as needless and wasteful of life those research activities known as
vivisection, also as contrary to human interest the use of drugs, serums, vaccines and chemicals
as medicines or preventives of disease by legal compulsion.

Health Culture is an illustrated Monthly, Standard Magazine size; $1.00 a year, 15 cents a
No., Canadian subscriptions $1.25, Foreign $1.50.

=Address, The Health Culture Co., Passaic, N. J.=