Yes:--Disaster had followed fast and faster. But why had it followed him? What had he done
to bring all this misery upon himself? How could he have acted differently? Wherein had he
broken any law he had been taught to uphold, and if he had broken it why should he not be forgiven?
Why, too, had Kate turned away from him? He had promised her never to drink again; he had kept
that promise, and, God helping him, he would always keep it, as would any other man who had
seen what he had just seen to-night. Perhaps he had trespassed in the duel, and yet he would
fight Willits again were the circumstances the same, and in this view Uncle George upheld him.
But suppose he had trespassed--suppose he had committed a fault--as his father declared--why
should not Kate forgive him? She had forgiven Willits, who was drunk, and yet she would not
forgive him, who had not allowed a drop to pass his lips since he had given her his promise.
How could she, who could do no wrong, expect to be forgiven herself when she not only shut
her door in his face, but left him without a word or a line? How could his father ask forgiveness
of his God when he would not forgive his son? Why were these two different from his mother
and his Uncle George, and even old Alec--who had nothing but sympathy for him? Perhaps his
education and training had been at fault. Perhaps, as Richard Horn had said, his standards
of living were old-fashioned and quixotic.

Only when the gray dawn stole in through the small window of his room did the boy fall asleep.

CHAPTER XVI

Not only Kennedy Square, but Moorlands, rang with accounts of the dinner and its consequences.
Most of those who were present and who witnessed the distressing spectacle had only words of
sympathy for the unfortunate man--his reverent manner, his contrite tones, and abject humiliation
disarming their criticism. They felt that some sudden breaking down of the barriers of his
will, either physical or mental, had led to the catastrophe. Richard Horn voiced the sentiments
of Poe's sympathizers when, in rehearsing the episode the next afternoon at the club, he had said:

"His pitiable condition, gentlemen, was not the result of debauchery. Poe neither spoke nor
acted like a drunken man; he spoke and acted like a man whom a devil had overcome. It was pathetic,
gentlemen, and it was heart-rending--really the most pitiful sight I ever remember witnessing.
His anguish, his struggle, and his surrender I shall never forget; nor will his God--for the
prayer came straight from his heart."

"I don't agree with you, Horn," interrupted Clayton. "Poe was plumb drunk! It is the infernal
corn whiskey he drinks that puts the devil in him. It may be he can't get anything else, but
it's a damnable concoction all the same. Kennedy has about given him up--told me so yesterday,
and when Kennedy gives a fellow up that's the last of him."

"Then I'm ashamed of Kennedy," retorted Horn. "Any man who can write as Poe does should be
forgiven, no matter what he does--if he be honest. There's nothing so rare as genius in this
world, and even if his flame does burn from a vile-smelling wick it's a flame, remember!--and
one that will yet light the ages. If I know anything of the literature of our time Poe will
live when these rhymers like Mr. Martin Farquhar Tupper, whom everybody is talking about, will
be forgotten. Poe's possessed of a devil, I tell you, who gets the better of him once in a
while--it did the night of St. George's dinner."

"Very charitable in you, Richard," exclaimed Pancoast, another dissenter--"and perhaps it will
be just as well for his family, if he has any, to accept your view--but, devil or no devil,
you must confess, Horn, that it was pretty hard on St. George. If the man has any sense of
refinement--and he must have from the way he writes--the best way out of it is for him to own
up like a man and say that Guy's barkeeper filled him too full of raw whiskey, and that he
didn't come to until it was too late--that he was very sorry, and wouldn't do it again. That's
what I would have done, and that's what you, Richard, or any other gentleman, would have done."

Others, who got their information second hand, followed the example of St. George's guests
censuring or excusing the poet in accordance with their previous likes or dislikes. The "what-did-I-tell-yous"--Bowdoin
among them--and there were several--broke into roars of laughter when they learned what had
happened in the Temple mansion. So did those who had not been invited, and who still felt some
resentment at St. George's oversight.

Another group; and these were also to be found at the club--thought only of St. George--old
Murdock, voicing their opinions when he said: "Temple laid himself out, so I hear, on that
dinner, and some of us know what that means. And a dinner like that, remember, counts with
St. George. In the future it will be just as well to draw the line at poets as well as actors."

The Lord of Moorlands had no patience with any of their views. Whether Poe was a drunkard or
not did not concern him in the least. What did trouble him was the fact that St. George's cursed
independence had made him so far forget himself and his own birth and breeding as to place
a chair at his table for a man in every way beneath him. Hospitality of that kind was understandable
in men like Kennedy and Latrobe--one the leading literary light of his State, whose civic duties
brought him in contact with all classes--the other a distinguished man of letters as well as
being a poet, artist, and engineer, who naturally touched the sides of many personalities.
So, too, might Richard Horn be excused for stretching the point--he being a scientist whose
duty it was to welcome to his home many kinds of people--this man Morse among them, with his
farcical telegraph; a man in the public eye who seemed to be more or less talked about in the
press, but of whom he himself knew nothing, but why St. George Temple, who in all probability
had never read a line of Poe's or anybody else's poetry in his life, should give this sot a
dinner, and why such sane gentlemen as Seymour, Clayton, and Pancoast should consider it an
honor to touch elbows with him, was as unaccountable as it was incredible.

Furthermore--and this is what rankled deepest in his heart--St. George was subjecting his only
son, Harry, to corrupting influences, and at a time, too, when the boy needed the uplifting
examples of all that was highest in men and manners.

"And you tell me, Alec," he blazed out on hearing the details, "that the fellow never appeared
until the dinner was all over and then came in roaring drunk?"

"Well, sah, I ain't yered nothin' 'bout de roarin', but he suttinly was 'how-come-ye-so'--fer
dey couldn't git 'im upstairs 'less dey toted him on dere backs. Marse George Temple gin him
his own baid an' sot up mos' ob de night, an' dar he stayed fur fo' days till he come to. Dat's
what Todd done tol' me, an' I reckon Todd knows."

The colonel was in his den when this conversation took place. He was generally to be found
there since the duel. Often his wife, or Alec, or some of his neighbors would surprise him
buried in his easy-chair, an unopened book in his hand, his eyes staring straight ahead as
if trying to grasp some problem which repeatedly eluded him. After the episode at the club
he became more absorbed than ever. It was that episode, indeed, which had vexed him most. Not
that St. George's tongue-lashing worried him--nor did Harry's blank look of amazement linger
in his thoughts. St. George, he had to confess to himself as he battled with the questions,
was the soul of honor and had not meant to insult him. It was Temple's love for Harry which
had incited the quixotic onslaught, for, as he knew, St. George dearly loved the boy, and this
in itself wiped all resentment from the autocrat's heart. As to Harry's attitude toward himself,
this he continued to reason was only a question of time. That young upstart had not learned
his lesson yet--a harsh lesson, it was true, and one not understood by the world at large--but
then the world was not responsible for his son's bringing up. When the boy had learned it,
and was willing to acknowledge the error of his ways, then, perhaps, he might kill the fatted
calf--that is, of course, if the prodigal should return on all fours and with no stilted and
untenable ideas about his rights--ideas that St. George, of course, was instilling into him
every chance he got.

So far, however, he had had to admit to himself that while he had kept steady watch of the
line of hills skirting his mental horizon, up to the present moment no young gentleman in a
dilapidated suit of clothes, inverted waist measure, and lean legs had shown himself above
the sky line. On the contrary, if all reports were true--and Alec omitted no opportunity to
keep him advised of Marse Harry's every movement--the young Lord of Moorlands was having the
time of his life, even if his sweetheart had renounced him and his father forced him into exile.
Not only had he found a home and many comforts at Temple's--being treated as an honored guest
alongside of such men as Kennedy and Latrobe, Pancoast, and the others, but now that St. George
had publicly declared him to be his heir, these distinctive marks of his approbation were likely
to continue. Nor could he interfere, even if he wished to--which, of course, he did not, and
never could so long as he lived.... "Damn him!" etc., etc. And with this the book would drop
from his lap and he begin pacing the floor, his eyes on the carpet, his broad shoulders bent
in his anxiety to solve the problem which haunted him night and day:--how to get Harry back
under his roof and not yield a jot or tittle of his pride or will--or, to be more explicit,
now that the mountain would not come to Mahomet, how could Mahomet get over to the mountain?

His friend and nearest neighbor, John Gorsuch, who was also his man of business, opened the
way. The financier's clerk had brought him a letter, just in by the afternoon coach, and with
a glance at its contents the shrewd old fellow had at once ordered his horse and set out for
Moorlands, some two miles distant. Nor did he draw rein or break gallop until he threw the
lines to a servant beside the lower step of the colonel's porch.

"It's the Patapsco again! It will close its doors before the week is out!" he cried, striding
into the library, where the colonel, who had just come in from inspecting a distant field on
his estate, sat dusting his riding-boots with his handkerchief.

"Going to stop payment! Failed! What the devil do you mean, John?"

"I mean just what I say! Everything has gone to bally-hack in the city. Here's a letter I have
just received from Harding--he's on the inside, and knows. He thinks there's some crooked business
about it; they have been loaning money on all sorts of brick-bats, he says, and the end has
come, or will to-morrow. He wanted to post me in time."

The colonel tossed his handkerchief on his writing-table: "Who will be hurt?" he asked hurriedly,
ignoring the reference to the dishonesty of the directors.

"Oh!--a lot of people. Temple, I know, keeps his account there. He was short of cash a little
while ago, for young Pawson, who has his law office in the basement of his house, offered me
a mortgage on his Kennedy Square property, but I hadn't the money at the time and didn't take
it. If he got it at last--and he paid heavily for it if he did--the way things have been going--and
if he put that money in the Patapsco, it will be a bad blow to him. Harry, I hear, is with
him--so I thought you ought to know."

Rutter had given a slight start at the mention of Temple's name among the crippled, and a strange
glitter still lingered in his eyes.

"Then I presume my son is dependent on a beggar," he exclaimed, rising from his seat, stripping
off his brown velveteen riding-jacket and hanging it in a closet behind his chair.

"Yes, it looks that way."

Gorsuch was watching the colonel closely. He had another purpose in making his breakneck ride.
He didn't have a dollar in the Patapsco, and he knew the colonel had not; he, like himself,
was too shrewd a man to be bitten twice by the same dog; but he had a large interest in Harry
and would leave no stone unturned to bring father and son together.

The colonel again threw himself into his chair, stretched out his slender, well-turned legs,
crooked one of his russet-leather riding-boots to be sure the spurs were still in place, and
said slowly--rather absently, as if the subject did not greatly interest him:

"Patapsco failed and St. George a beggar, eh?--Too bad!--too bad!" Then some disturbing suspicions
must have entered his head, for he roused himself, looked at Gorsuch keenly, and asked in a
searching tone: "And you came over full tilt, John, to tell me this?"

"I thought you might help. St. George needs all the friends he's got if this is true--and it
looks to me as if it was," answered Gorsuch in a casual way.

Rutter relaxed his gaze and resumed his position. Had his suspicions been correct that Gorsuch's
interest in Harry was greater than his interest in the bank's failure, he would have resented
it even from John Gorsuch.

Disarmed by the cool, unflinching gaze of his man of business, his mind again took up in review
all the incidents connected with St. George and his son, and what part each had played in them.

That Temple--good friend as he had always been--had thwarted him in every attempt to bring
about a reconciliation between himself and Harry, had been apparent from the very beginning
of the difficulty. Even the affair at the club showed it. This would have ended quite differently--and
he had fully intended it should--had not St. George, with his cursed officiousness, interfered
with his plans. For what he had really proposed to himself to do, on that spring morning when
he had rolled up to the club in his coach, was to mount the steps, ignore his son at first,
if he should run up against him--(and he had selected the very hour when he hoped he would
run up against him)--and then, when the boy broke down, as he surely must, to forgive him like
a gentleman and a Rutter, and this, too, before everybody. Seymour would see it--Kate would
hear of it, and the honor of the Rutters remain unblemished. Moreover, this would silence once
and for all those gabblers who had undertaken to criticise him for what they called his inhumanity
in banishing this only son when he was only trying to bring up that child in the way he should
go. Matters seemed to be coming his way. The failure of the Patapsco might be his opportunity.
St. George would be at his wits' end; Harry would be forced to choose between the sidewalk
and Moorlands, and the old life would go on as before.

All these thoughts coursed through his mind as he leaned back in his chair, his lips tight
set, the jaw firm and determined--only the lids quivering as he mastered the tears that crept
to their edges. Now and then, in his mental absorption, he would absently cross his legs only
to straighten them out again, his state of mind an open book to Gorsuch, who had followed the
same line of reasoning and who had brought the news himself that he might the better watch
its effect.

"I'm surprised that Temple should select the Patapsco. It has never got over its last smash
of four years ago," Gorsuch at last remarked. He did not intend to let the topic drift away
from Harry if he could help it.

"I am not surprised, John. St. George is the best fellow in the world, but he never lets anything
work but his heart. When you get at the bottom of it you will find that he's backed up the
bank because some poor devil of a teller or clerk, or may be some director, is his friend.
That's enough for St. George, and further than that he never goes. He's thrown away two fortunes
now--his grandmother's, which was small but sound--and his father's, which if he had attended
to it would have kept him comfortable all his life."

"You had some words at the club, I heard," interjected Gorsuch.

"No, he had some words, I had a julep," and the colonel smiled grimly.

"But you are still on good terms, are you not?"

"I am, but he isn't. But that is of no consequence. No man in his senses would ever get angry
with St. George, no matter what he might say or do. He hasn't a friend in the world who could
be so ill bred. And as to calling him out--you would as soon think of challenging your wife.
St. George talks from his heart, never his head. I have loved him for thirty years and know
exactly what I am talking about--and yet let me tell you, Gorsuch, that with all his qualities--and
he is the finest-bred gentleman I know--he can come closer to being a natural born fool than
any man of his years and position in Kennedy Square. This treatment of my son--whom I am trying
to bring up a gentleman--is one proof of it, and this putting all his eggs into one basket--and
that a rotten basket--is another."

"Well, then--if that is your feeling about it, colonel, why not go and see him? As I have said,
he needs all the friends he's got at a time like this." If he could bring the two men together
the boy might come home. Not to be able to wave back to Harry as he dashed past on Spitfire,
had been a privation which the whole settlement had felt. "That is, of course," he continued,
"if St. George Temple would be willing to receive you. He would be--wouldn't he?"

"I don't know, John--and I don't care. If I should make up my mind to go--remember, I said
'IF'--I'd go whether he liked it or not."

He HAD made up his mind--had made it up at the precise moment the announcement of the bank's
failure and St. George's probable ruin had dropped from Gorsuch's lips--but none of this must
Gorsuch suspect. He would still be the doge and Virginius; he alone must be the judge of when
and how and where he would show leniency. Generations of Rutters were behind him--this boy
was in the direct line--connecting the past with the present--and on Colonel Talbot Rutter
of Moorlands, and on no other, rested the responsibility of keeping the glorious name unsmirched.

Todd, with one of the dogs at his heels, opened the door for him, smothering a "Gor-a-Mighty!--sumpin's
up fo' sho'!" when his hand turned the knob. He had heard the clatter of two horses and their
sudden pull-up outside, and looking out, had read the situation at a glance. Old Matthew was
holding the reins of both mounts at the moment, for the colonel always rode in state. No tying
to hitching-posts or tree-boxes, or picking up of a loose negro to watch his restless steed
when he had a stable full of thoroughbreds and quarters packed with grooms.

"Yes, Marse Colonel--yes, sah--Marse George is inside--yes, sah--but Marse Harry's out." He
had not asked for Harry, but Todd wanted him to get all the facts in case there was to be another
such scene as black John described had taken place at the club on the occasion of the colonel's
last visit to the Chesapeake.

"Then I'll go in unannounced, and you need not wait, Todd."

St. George was in his arm-chair by the mantel looking over one of his heavy ducking-guns when
the Lord of Moorlands entered. He was the last man in the world he expected to see, but he
did not lose his self-control or show in any way his surprise. He was host, and Rutter was
his guest; nothing else counted now.

St. George rose to his feet, laid the gun carefully on the table, and with a cold smile on
his face--one of extreme courtesy--advanced to greet him.

"Ah, Talbot--it has been some time since I had this pleasure. Let me draw up a chair for you--I'll
ring for Todd and--"

"No, St. George. I prefer to talk to you alone."

"Todd is never an interruption."

"He may be to-day. I have something to say to you--and I don't want either to be interrupted
or misunderstood. You and I have known each other too many years to keep up this quarrel; I
am getting rather sick of it myself."

St. George shrugged his shoulders, placed the gun carefully in the rack by the door, and maintained
an attentive attitude. He would either fight or make peace, but he must first learn the conditions.
In the meantime he would hold his peace.

Rutter strode past him to the fireplace, opened his riding-jacket, laid his whip on the mantel,
and with his hands deep in his breeches pockets faced the room and his host, who had again
taken his place by the table.

"The fact is, St. George, I have been greatly disturbed of late by reports which have reached
me about my son. He is with you, I presume?"

St. George nodded.

Rutter waited for a verbal reply, and receiving none, forged on: "Very greatly disturbed; so
much so that I have made an especial trip from Moorlands to call upon you and ascertain their
truth."

Again St. George nodded, the smile--one of extreme civility now--still on his face. Then he
added, flicking some stray grains of tobacco from his sleeve with his fingers: "That was very
good of you, Talbot--but go on--I'm listening."

The colonel's eyes kindled. Temple's perfect repose--something he had not expected--was beginning
to get on his nerves, He cleared his throat impressively and continued, his voice rising in
intensity:

"Instead of leading the life of a young man brought up as a gentleman, I hear he is consorting
with the lowest class of people here in your house--people who--"

"--Are my guests," interrupted St. George calmly--loosening the buttons of his coat in search
of his handkerchief--there being more tobacco on his clothes than he had supposed.

"Yes, you have hit it exactly--your guests--and that is another thing I have come to tell you,
for neither I nor your friends can understand how a man of your breeding should want to surround
himself with----Is it necessary that you should understand, Talbot?"--same low, incisive but
extremely civil voice, almost monotonous in its cadences. The cambric was in full play now.

"Of course it is necessary when it affects my own flesh and blood. You know as well as I do
that this sot, Poe, is not a fit companion for a boy raised as my Harry has been--a man picked
out of the gutter--his family a lot of play-actors--even worse, I hear. A fellow who staggers
into your house dead drunk and doesn't sober up for a week! It's scandalous!"

Again St. George shrugged his shoulders, but one hand was tight shut this time, the steel claws
protruding, the handkerchief alone saving their points from pressing into the palms.

"And is that what you came from Moorlands to tell me, Talbot?" remarked St. George casually,
adjusting the lapels of his coat.

"Yes!" retorted Rutter--he was fast losing what was left of his self-control--"that and some
other things! But we will attend to Harry first. You gave that boy shelter when--"

"Please state it correctly, Talbot. We can get on better if you stick to the facts." The words
came slowly, but the enunciation was as perfect as if each syllable had been parted with a
knife. "I didn't give him shelter--I gave him a home--one you denied him. But go on--I prefer
to hear you out."

The colonel's eyes blazed. He had never seen St. George like this: it was Temple's hot outbursts
that had made him so easy an adversary in their recent disputes.

"And you will please do the same, St. George," he demanded in his most top-lofty tone, ignoring
his opponent's denial. "You know perfectly well I turned him out of Moorlands because he had
disgraced his blood, and yet you--my life-long friend--have had the bad taste to interfere
and drag him down still lower, so that now, instead of coming to his senses and asking my pardon,
he parades himself at the club and at your dinners, putting on the airs of an injured man."

St. George drew himself up to his full height.

"Let us change the subject, Talbot, or we will both forget ourselves. If you have anything
to say to me that will benefit Harry and settle the difficulty between him and you, I will
meet you more than half-way, but I give you fair warning that the apology must come from you.
You have--if you will permit me to say it in my own house--behaved more like a brute than a
father. I told you so the night you turned him out in the rain for me to take care of, and
I told you so again at the club when you tried to make a laughing-stock of him before your
friends--and now I tell you so once more! Come!--let us drop the subject--what may I offer
you to drink?--you must be rather chilled with your ride in."

Rutter was about to flare out a denial when his better judgment got the best of him; some other
tactics than the ones he had used must be brought into play. So far he had made but little
headway against Temple's astounding coolness.

"And I am to understand, then, that you are going to keep him here?" he demanded, ignoring
both his host's criticisms and his proffered hospitality.

"I certainly am"--he was abreast of him now, his eyes boring into his--"just as long as he
wishes to stay, which I hope will be all his life, or until you have learned to be decent to
him. And by decency, I mean companionship, and love, and tenderness--three things which your
damned, high-toned notions have always deprived him of!" His voice was still under control,
although the emphasis was unmistakable.

Rutter made a step forward, his eyes flashing, his teeth set:

"You have the impertinence, sir, to charge me with----"

"--Yes!--and it's true and you know it's true!"--the glance, steady as a rifle, had not wavered.
"No, you needn't work yourself up into a passion--and as for your lordly, dictatorial airs,
I am past the age when they affect me--keep them for your servants. By God!--what a farce it
all is! Let us talk of something else--I am tired of it!"

The words cut like a whip, but the Lord of Moorlands had come to get his son, not to fight
St. George. Their sting, however, had completely changed his plans. Only the club which Gorsuch
had put into his hands would count now.

"Yes--a damnable farce!" he thundered, "and one played by a man with beggary staring him straight
in the face, and yet to hear you talk one would think you were a Croesus! You mortgaged this
house to get ready money, did you not?" He was not sure, but this was no time in which to split
words.

St. George turned quickly: "Who told you that?"

"Is it true?"

"Yes! Do you suppose I would let Harry sneak around corners to avoid his creditors?"

The colonel gave an involuntary start, the blood mounting to the roots of his hair, and as
suddenly paled:

"You tell me that--you dared to--pay Harry's debts?" he stammered in amazement.

"Dared!" retorted St. George, lifting his chin contemptuously. "Really, Talbot, you amuse me.
When you set that dirty hound Gadgem on his trail, what did you expect me to do?--invite the
dog to dinner?--or have him sleep in the house until I sold furniture enough to get rid of him?"

The colonel leaned back against the mantel's edge as if for support. All the fight was out
of him. Not only was the situation greatly complicated, but he himself was his host's debtor.
The seriousness of the whole affair confronted him. For a brief instant he gazed at the floor,
his eyes on the hearthrug, "Have you any money left, St. George?" he asked. His voice was subdued
enough now. Had he been his solicitor he could not have been more concerned.

"Yes, a few thousand," returned St. George. He saw that some unexpected shot had hit the colonel,
but he did not know he had fired it.

"Left over from the mortgage, I suppose?--less what you paid out for Harry?"

"Yes, left over from the mortgage, less what I paid Gadgem," he bridled. "If you have brought
any more of Harry's bills hand them out. Why the devil you ask, Talbot, is beyond my ken, but
I have no objection to your knowing."

Rutter waved his hand impatiently, with a deprecating gesture; such trifles were no longer
important.

"You bank with the Patapsco, do you not?" he asked calmly. "Answer me, please, and don't think
I'm trying to pry into your affairs. The matter is much more serious than you seem to think."
The tone was so sympathetic that St. George looked closer into his antagonist's face, trying
to read the cause.

"Always with the Patapsco. I have kept my account there for years," he rejoined simply. "Why
do you want to know?"

"Because it has closed its doors--or will in a few hours. It is bankrupt!"

There was no malice in his tone, nor any note of triumph. That St. George had beggared himself
to pay his son's debts had wiped that clear. He was simply announcing a fact that caused him
the deepest concern.

St. George's face paled, and for a moment a peculiar choking movement started in his throat.

"Bankrupt!--the Patapsco! How do you know?" He had heard some ugly rumors at the club a few
days before, but had dismissed them as part of Harding's croakings.

"John Gorsuch received a letter last night from one of the directors; there is no doubt of
its truth. I have suspected its condition for some time, so has Gorsuch. This brought me here.
You see now how impossible it is for my son to be any longer a burden on you."

St. George walked slowly across the room and drawing out a chair settled himself to collect
his thoughts the better;--he had remained standing as the better way to terminate the interview
should he be compelled to exercise that right. The two announcements had come like successive
blows in the face. If the news of the bank's failure was true he was badly, if not hopelessly,
crippled--this, however, would wait, as nothing he might do could prevent the catastrophe.
The other--Harry's being a burden to him--must be met at once.

He looked up and caught the colonel's eye scrutinizing his face.

"As to Harry's being a burden," St. George said slowly, his lip curling slightly--"that is
my affair. As to his remaining here, all I have to say is that if a boy is old enough to be
compelled to pay his debts he is old enough to decide where he will live. You have yourself
established that rule and it will be carried out to the letter."

Rutter's face hardened: "But you haven't got a dollar in the world to spare!"

"That may be, but it doesn't altar the situation; it rather strengthens it." He rose from his
chair: "I think we are about through now, Talbot, and if you will excuse me I'll go down to
the bank and see what is the matter. I will ring for Todd to bring your hat and coat." He did
not intend to continue the talk. There had just been uncovered to him a side of Talbot Rutter's
nature which had shocked him as much as had the threatened loss of his money. To use his poverty
as a club to force him into a position which would be dishonorable was inconceivable in a man
as well born as his antagonist, but it was true: he could hardly refrain from telling him so.
He had missed, it may be said, seeing another side--his visitor's sympathy for him in his misfortune.
That, unfortunately, he did not see: fate often plays such tricks with us all.

The colonel stepped in front of him: his eyes had an ugly look in them--the note of sympathy
was gone.

"One moment, St. George! How long you are going to keep up this fool game, I don't know; but
my son stays here on one condition, and on one condition only, and you might as well understand
it now. From this time on I pay his board. Do you for one instant suppose I am going to let
you support him, and you a beggar?"

St. George made a lunge toward the speaker as if to strike him. Had Rutter fired point-blank
at him he could not have been more astounded. For an instant he stood looking into his face,
then whirled suddenly and swung wide the door.

"May I ask you, Talbot, to leave the room, or shall I? You certainly cannot be in your senses
to make me a proposition like that. This thing has got to come to an end, and NOW! I wish you
good-morning."

The colonel lifted his hands in a deprecatory way.

"As you will, St. George."

And without another word the baffled autocrat strode from the room.

CHAPTER XVII

There was no one at home when Harry returned except Todd, who, having kept his position outside
the dining-room door during the heated encounter, had missed nothing of the interview. What
had puzzled the darky--astounded him really--was that no pistol-shot had followed his master's
denouncement and defiance of the Lord of Moorlands. What had puzzled him still more was hearing
these same antagonists ten minutes later passing the time o' day, St. George bowing low and
the colonel touching his hat as he passed out and down to where Matthew and his horses were
waiting.

It was not surprising, therefore, that Todd's recital to Harry came in a more or less disjointed
and disconnected form.

"You say, Todd," he exclaimed in astonishment, "that my father was here!" Our young hero was
convinced that the visit did not concern himself, as he was no longer an object of interest
to any one at home except his mother and Alec.

"Dat he was, sah, an' b'ilin' mad. Dey bofe was, on'y Marse George lay low an' de colonel purty
nigh rid ober de top ob de fence. Fust Marse George sass him an' den de colonel sass him back.
Purty soon Marse George say he gwinter speak his min'--and he call de colonel a brute an' den
de colonel riz up an' say Marse George was a beggar and a puttin' on airs when he didn't hab
'nough money to buy hisse'f a 'tater; an' den Marse George r'ared and pitched--Oh I tell ye
he ken be mighty sof' and persimmony when he's tame--and he's mos' allers dat way--but when
his dander's up, and it suttinly riz to-day, he kin make de fur fly. Dat's de time you wanter
git outer de way or you'll git hurted."

"Who did you say was the beggar?" It was all Greek to Harry.

"Why, Marse George was--he was de one what was gwine hongry. De colonel 'lowed dat de bank
was busted an'--"

"What bank?"

"Why de 'Tapsco--whar Marse George keep his money. Ain't you see me comin' from dar mos' ebery
day?"

"But it hasn't failed, has it?" He was still wondering what the quarrel was about.

"Wall, I dunno, but I reckon sumpin's de matter, for no sooner did de colonel git on his horse
and ride away dan Marse George go git his hat and coat hisse'f and make tracks th'ou' de park
by de short cut--and you know he neber do dat 'cept when he's in a hurry, and den in 'bout
a ha'f hour he come back ag'in lookin' like he'd seed de yahoo, only he was mad plump th'ou';
den he hollered for me quick like, and sont me down underneaf yere to Mr. Pawson to know was
he in, and he was, and I done tol' him, and he's dar now. He ain't neber done sont me down
dar 'cept once sence I been yere, and dat was de day dat Gadgem man come snuffin' roun'. Trouble
comin'."

Harry had now begun to take in the situation. It was evidently a matter of some moment or Pawson
would not have been consulted.

"I'll go down myself, Todd," he said with sudden resolve.

"Better lem'me tell him you're yere, Marse Harry."

"No, I'll go now," and he turned on his heel and descended the front steps.

On the street side of the house, level with the bricks, was a door opening into a low-ceiled,
shabbily furnished room, where in the old days General Dorsey Temple, as has been said, shared
his toddies with his cronies. There he found St. George seated at a long table piled high with
law books and papers--the top covered with a green baize cloth embroidered with mice holes
and decorated with ink stains. Beside him was a thin, light-haired, young man, with a long,
flexible neck and abnormally high forehead, over-doming a shrewd but not unkindly face. The
two were poring over a collection of papers.

The young lawyer rose to his feet, a sickly, deferential smile playing along his straight lips.
Young aristocrats of Harry's blood and breeding did not often darken Pawson's door, and he
was extremely anxious that his guest should in some way be made aware of his appreciation of
that fact. St. George did not move, nor did he take any other notice of the boy's appearance
than to fasten his eyes upon him for a moment in recognition of his presence.

But Harry could not wait.

"Todd has just told me, Uncle George, that"--he caught the grave expression on Temple's face--"Why!--Uncle
George--there isn't anything the matter, is there? It isn't true that the--"

St. George raised his head: "What isn't true, Harry?"

"That the Patapsco Bank is in trouble?"

"No, I don't think so. The bank, so far as I know, is all right; it's the depositors who are
in trouble," and one of his quaint smiles lighted up his face.

"Broken!--failed!" cried Harry, still in doubt as to the extent of the catastrophe, but wishing
to be sympathetic and proportionably astounded as any well-bred young man should be when his
best friend was unhappy.

"I'm afraid it is, Harry--in fact I know it is--bankrupt in character as well as in balances--a
bad-smelling, nasty mess, to tell you the truth. That's not only my own opinion, but the opinion
of every man whom I have seen, and there was quite an angry mob when I reached the teller's
window this morning. That is your own opinion also, is it not, Mr. Pawson?--your legal summing
up, I mean."

The young attorney stretched out his spare colorless hands; opened wide his long, double-jointed
fingers; pressed their ten little cushions together, and see-sawing the bunch in front of his
concave waistcoat, answered in his best professional voice:

"As to being bankrupt of funds I should say there was no doubt of that being their condition;
as to any criminal intent or practices--that, of course, gentlemen"--and he shrugged his shoulders
in a non-committal, non-actionable way--"is not for me to decide."

"But you think it will be months, and perhaps years, before the depositors get a penny of their
money--do you not?" persisted St. George.

Again Pawson performed the sleight-of-hand trick, and again he was non-committal--a second
shrug alone expressing his views, the performance ending by his pushing a wooden chair in the
direction of Harry, who was still on his feet.

Harry settled himself on its edge and fixed his eyes on his uncle. St. George again became
absorbed in the several papers, Pawson once more assisting him, the visitor having now been
duly provided for.

This raking of ashes in the hope of finding something of value unscorched was not a pleasant
task for the young lawyer. He had, years before, conceived the greatest admiration for his
landlord and was never tired of telling his associates of how kind and considerate St. George
had always been, and of his patience in the earlier days of his lease, Mr. Temple often refusing
the rent until he was quite ready to pay it. He took a certain pride, too, in living under
the same roof, so to speak, with one universally known as a gentleman of the old school, whose
birth, education, and habits made him the standard among his fellows--a man without pretence
or sham, living a simple and wholesome life; with dogs, guns, priceless Madeira and Port, as
well as unlimited clothes of various patterns adapted to every conceivable service and function--to
say nothing of his being part of the best society that Kennedy Square could afford.

Even to bow to his distinguished landlord as he was descending his front steps was in itself
one of his greatest pleasures. That he might not miss it, he would peer from behind his office
shutters until the shapely legs of his patron could be seen between the twisted iron railing.
Then appearing suddenly and with assumed surprise, he would lift his hat with so great a flourish
that his long, thin arms and body were jerked into semaphore angles, his face meanwhile beaming
with ill-concealed delight.

Should any one of St. George's personal friends accompany him--men like Kennedy, or General
Hardisty, or some well-known man from the Eastern Shore--one of the Dennises, or Joyneses,
or Irvings--the pleasure was intensified, the incident being of great professional advantage.
"I have just met old General Hardisty," he would say--"he was at our house," the knowing ones
passing a wink around, and the uninitiated having all the greater respect and, therefore, all
the greater confidence in that rising young firm of "Pawson & Pawson, Attorneys and Counsellors
at Law--Wills drawn and Estates looked after."

That this rarest of gentlemen, of all men in the world, should be made the victim of a group
of schemers who had really tricked him of almost all that was left of his patrimony, and he
a member of his own profession, was to Pawson one of the great sorrows of his life. That he
himself had unwittingly helped in its culmination made it all the keener. Only a few weeks
had passed since that eventful day when St. George had sent Todd down to arrange for an interview,
an event which was followed almost immediately by that gentleman in person. He remembered his
delight at the honor conferred upon him; he recalled how he had spent the whole of that and
the next day in the attempt to negotiate the mortgage on the old home at a reasonable rate
of interest; he recalled, too, how he could have lowered the rate had St. George allowed him
more time. "No, pay it and get rid of them!" St. George had said, the "them" being part of
the very accounts over which the two were poring. And his patron had showed the same impatience
when it came to placing the money in the bank. Although his own lips were sealed professionally
by reason of the interests of another client, he had begged St. George, almost to the verge
of interference, not to give it to the Patapsco, until he had been silenced with: "Have them
put it to my credit, sir. I have known every member of that bank for years."

All these things were, of course, unknown to Harry, the ultimate beneficiary. Who had filled
the bucket, and how and why, were unimportant facts to him. That it was full, and ready for
his use, brought with it the same sense of pleasure he would have felt on a hot day at Moorlands
when he had gone to the old well, drawn up the ice-cold water, and, plunging in the sweet-smelling
gourd, had drank to his heart's content.

This was what wells were made for; and so were fathers, and big, generous men like his Uncle
George, who had dozens of friends ready to cram money into his pocket for him to hand over
to whoever wanted it and without a moment's hesitation--just as Slater had handed him the money
he needed when Gilbert wanted it in a hurry.

Nor could it be expected that Harry, even with the examination of St. George's accounts with
the Patapsco and other institutions going on under his very eyes, understood fully just what
a bank failure really meant. Half a dozen banks, he remembered, had gone to smash some few
years before, sending his father to town one morning at daylight, where he stayed for a week,
but no change, so far as he could recall, had happened because of it at Moorlands. Indeed,
his father had bought a new coach for his mother the very next week, out of what he had "saved
from the wreck," so he had told her.

It was not until the hurried overhauling of a mass of papers beneath his uncle's hand, and
the subsequent finding of a certain stray sheet by Pawson, that the boy was aroused to a sense
of the gravity of the situation. And even then his interest did not become acute until, the
missing document identified, St. George had turned to Pawson and, pointing to an item halfway
down the column, had said in a lowered tone, as if fearing to be overheard:

"You have the receipts, have you not, for everything on this list?--Slater's account too, and
Hampson's?"

"They are in the file beside you, sir."

"Well, that's a comfort, anyhow."

"And the balance"--here he examined a small book which lay open beside him--"amounting to"--he
paused--"is of course locked up in their vaults?"

Harry had craned his head in instant attention. His quickened ears had caught two familiar
names. It was Slater who had loaned him the five hundred dollars which he gave to Gilbert,
which his father had commended him for borrowing; and it was Hampson who had sold him the wretched
horse that had stumbled and broken his leg and had afterwards to be shot.

"Slater, did you say, Uncle George--and Hampson? Aren't they my old accounts?"

"Quite right, Mr. Rutter--quite right, sir." St. George tried to stop him with a frown, but
Pawson's face was turned towards Harry and he failed to get the signal. "Quite right, and quite
lucky; they were both important items in Mr. Gadgem's list, and both checks passed through
the bank and were paid before the smash came."

The tones of Pawson's voice, the twisting together of his bony hands in a sort of satisfied
contentment, and the weary look on his uncle's face were the opening of so many windows in
the boy's brain. At the same instant one of those creepy chills common to a man when some hitherto
undiscovered vista of impending disaster widens out before him, started at the base of Harry's
spine, crept up his shoulder-blades, shivered along his arms, and lost itself in his benumbed
fingers. This was followed by a lump in his throat that nearly strangled him. He left his chair
and touched Pawson on the shoulder.

"Does this mean, Mr. Pawson--this money being locked up in the bank vaults and not coming out
for months--and may be never--does it mean that Mr. Temple--well, that Uncle George--won't
have enough money to live on?" There was an anxious, vibrant tone in Harry's voice that aroused
St. George to a sense of the boy's share in the calamity and the privations he must suffer
because of it. Pawson hesitated and was about to belittle the gravity of the situation when
St. George stopped him.

"Yes--tell him--tell him everything, I have no secrets from Mr. Rutter. Stop!--I'll tell him.
It means, Harry"--and a brave smile played about his lips--"that we will have to live on hog
and hominy, may be, or pretty nigh it--certainly for a while--not bad, old fellow, when you
get accustomed to it. Aunt Jemima makes very good hominy and--"

He stopped; the brave smile had faded from his face.

"By Jove!--that's something I didn't think of!--What will I do with the dear old woman--It
would break her heart--and Todd?"

Here was indeed something on which he had not counted! For him to forego the luxuries that
enriched his daily life was easy--he had often in his hunting trips lived for weeks on sweet
potato and a handful of cornmeal, and slept on the bare ground with only a blanket over him,
but that his servants should be reduced to similar privations suggested possibilities which
appalled him. For the first time since the cruel announcement fell from Rutter's lips the real
situation, with all that it meant to his own future and those dependent upon him, stared him
in the face.

He looked up and caught Harry's anxious eyes scanning his own. His old-time, unruffled spirit
came to his assistance.

"No, son!" he cried in his cheeriest voice, springing to his feet--"no, we won't worry. It
will all come out right--we'll buckle down to it together, you and I. Don't take it too much
to heart--we'll get on somehow."

But the boy was not reassured; in fact, he had become more anxious than ever. Not only did
the chill continue, but the lump in his throat grew larger every minute.

"But, Uncle George--you told me you borrowed the money to pay those bills my father sent me.
And will you now have to pay that back as well?" He did not ask of whom he had borrowed it,
nor on what security, nor would either Pawson or his uncle have told him, that being a confidential
matter.

"Well, that depends, Harry; but we won't have to pay it right away, which is one comfort. And
then again, I can go back to the law. I have yet to make my maiden speech before a jury, but
I can do it. Think of it!--everybody in tears, the judge mopping his eyes--court-room breathless.
Oh, you just wait until your old uncle gets on his feet before a bench and jury. Come along,
old fellow--let us go up into the house." Then in a serious tone--his back to Harry--"Pawson,
please bring the full accounts with you in the morning, and now let me thank you for your courtesy.
You have been extremely civil, sir, and I appreciate it most highly."

When they had reached the front walk and were about to climb the immaculate steps, St. George,
still determined to divert the boy's thoughts from his own financial straits, said with a laugh:

"Todd told you, of course, about your father paying me a visit this morning, did he not?"

"Oh, yes!--a most extraordinary account. You must have enjoyed it," replied Harry, trying to
fall into his uncle's mood, his heart growing heavier every moment. "What did he want?"

One of St. George's heat-lightning smiles played over his face: "He wanted two things. He first
wanted you, and then he wanted a receipt for a month's board--YOUR board, remember! He went
away without either."

A new perspective suddenly opened up in Harry's mind; one that had a gleam of sunshine athwart it.

"But, Uncle George!" he burst out--"don't forget that my father owes you all the money you
paid for me! That, of course, will eventually come back to you." This came in a tone of great
relief, as if the money was already in his hand.

St. George's face hardened: "None of it will come back to me," he rejoined in a positive tone.
"He doesn't owe me one single penny and he never will. That money he owes to you. Whatever
you may happen to owe me can wait until you are able to pay it. And now while I am talking
about it, there is another thing your father owes you, and that is an humble apology, and that
he will pay one of these days in tears and agony. You are neither a beggar nor a cringing dog,
and you never will be so long as I can help it!" He stopped, rested his hand on the boy's shoulder,
and with a quiver in his voice added:

"Your hand, my son. Short commons after this, may be, but we will make the fight together."

When the two passed through the front door and stepped into the dining-room they found it filled
with gentlemen--friends who had heard of the crash and who had come either to extend their
sympathy or offer their bank accounts. They had heard of the catastrophe at the club and had
instantly left their seats and walked across the park in a body.

To one and all St. George gave a warm pressure of the hand and a bright smile. Had he been
the master of ceremonies at a state reception he could not have been more self-possessed or
more gallant; his troubles were for himself, never for his guests.

"All in a lifetime--but I am not worrying. The Patapsco pulled out once before and it may again.
My only regret is that I cannot, at least for a time, have as many of you as I would wish under
my mahogany. But don't let us borrow any trouble; certainly not to-day. Todd, get some glasses
and bring me that bottle of Madeira--the one there on the sideboard!" Here he took the precious
fluid from Todd's hand and holding high the crusted bottle said with a dry smile--one his friends
knew when his irony was aroused: "That wine, gentlemen, saw the light at a time when a man
locked his money in an iron box to keep outside thieves from stealing it; to-day he locks his
money in a bank's vault and locks the thieves in with it. Extraordinary, is it not, how we
gentlemen trust each other? Here, Todd, draw the cork!... Slowly.... Now hand me the bottle--yes--Clayton,
that's the same wine that you and Kennedy liked so much the night we had Mr. Poe with us. It
is really about all there is left of my father's Black Warrior of 1810. I thought it was all
gone, but Todd found two more the other day, one of which I sent to Kennedy. This is the other.
Kennedy writes me he is keeping his until we can drink it together. Is everybody's glass full?
Then my old toast if you will permit me: 'Here's to love and laughter, and every true friend
of my true friend my own!'"

Before the groups had dispersed Harry had the facts in his possession--principally from Judge
Pancoast, who gave him a full account of the bank's collapse, some papers having been handed
up to him on the bench that morning. Summed up, his uncle was practically ruined--and he, Harry,
was the cause of it--the innocent cause, perhaps, but the cause all the same: but for his father's
cruelty and his own debts St. George would never have mortgaged his home. That an additional
sum--his uncle's entire deposit--had been swallowed up in the crash was but part of the same
misfortune. Poe's lines were true, then--never so true as now:

"Some unhappy master whom unmerciful disaster Followed fast and followed faster..."

This, then, was ever after to be his place in life--to bring misery wherever he went.

He caught up his hat and walked through the park beside the judge, hoping for some further
details of his uncle's present plight and future condition, but the only thing his Honor added
to what he already knew was his wonderment over the fact that St. George, having no immediate
use for the money except to pay his bills, should have raised so large a sum on a mortgage
instead of borrowing it from his friends. It was here that Harry's heart gave a bound:--no
one, then, but his uncle, Pawson, and himself knew that he alone was responsible for the catastrophe!
That his father should have learned of his share in it did not enter the boy's head.

Todd answered his knock on his return, and in reply to his inquiry informed him that he must
not sit up, as "Marse George" had left word that he would be detained until late at a meeting
of the creditors of the bank.

And so the unhappy lad, his supper over, sought his bed and, as had occurred more than once
before, spent the earlier hours of the night gazing at the ceiling and wondering what would
become of him.

CHAPTER XVIII

With the breaking of the dawn Harry's mind was made up. Before the sun was an hour high he
had dressed hurriedly, stolen downstairs so as to wake no one, and closing the front door softly
behind him had taken the long path through the park in the direction of the wharves. Once there,
he made the rounds of the shipping offices from Light Street wharf to the Falls--and by the
time St. George had finished dressing--certainly before he was through his coffee--had entered
the name of Henry Rutter on two sets of books--one for a position as supercargo and the other,
should nothing better be open, as common seaman. All he insisted upon was that the ship should
sail at once. As to the destination, that was of no consequence, nor did the length of the
voyage make any difference. He remembered that his intimate friend, Gilbert, had some months
before gone as supercargo to China, his father wanting him to see something of the world; and
if a similar position were open he could, of course, give references as to his character--a
question the agent asked him--but, then, Gilbert had a father to help him. Should no such position
be available, he would ship before the mast, or serve as cook or cabin-boy, or even scullion--but
he would not live another day or hour dependent on his dear Uncle George, who had impoverished
himself in his behalf.

He selected the sea instead of going into the army as a common soldier because the sea had
always appealed to him. He loved its freedom and its dangers. Then again, he was young and
strong--could climb like a cat--sail a boat--swim--Yes!--the sea was the place! He could get
far enough away behind its horizons to hide the struggle he must make to accomplish the one
purpose of his life--the earning of his debt.

Filled with this idea he began to perfect his plans, determining to take no one into his confidence
until the day before the ship was ready to sail. He would then send for his mother and Alec--bring
them all down to St. George's house and announce his intention. That was the best and wisest
way. As for Kate--who had now been at home some weeks--he would pour out his heart to her in
a letter. This was better than an interview, which she would doubtless refuse:--a letter she
would be obliged to read and, perhaps, answer. As for his dear Uncle George--it would be like
tearing his heart out to leave him, but this wrench had to be met and it was best to do it
quickly and have done with it.

When this last thought took possession a sudden faintness crept over him. How could he leave
his uncle? What St. George was to him no one but himself knew--father, friend, comrade, adviser--standard
of men and morals--all and more was his beloved uncle. No thought of his heart but he had given
him, and never once had he been misunderstood. He could put his arm about his uncle's neck
as he would about his mother's and not be thought effeminate or childish. And the courtesy
and dignity and fairness with which he had been treated; and the respect St. George showed
him--and he only a boy: compelling his older men friends to do the same. Never letting him
feel that any foolish act of his young life had been criticised, or that any one had ever thought
the less of him because of them.

Breakfast over, during which no allusion was made either to what St. George had accomplished
at the conference of creditors the night before, or to Harry's early rising--the boy made his
way into the park and took the path he loved. It was autumn, and the mild morning air bespoke
an Indian summer day. Passing beneath the lusty magnolias, which flaunted here and there their
glossy leaves, he paused under one of the big oaks, whose branches, stripped of most of their
foliage, still sheltered a small, vine-covered arbor where he and Kate had often sat--indeed,
it was within its cool shade that he had first told her of his love. Here he settled himself
on a small wooden bench outside the retreat and gave his thoughts full rein--not to repine,
nor to revive his troubles, which he meant to put behind him--but to plan out the letter he
was to write Kate. This must be clear and convincing and tell the whole story of his heart.
That he might empty it the better he had chosen this place made sacred by her presence. Then
again, the park was generally deserted at this hour--the hour between the passing of the men
of business and the coming of the children and nurses--and he would not be interrupted--certainly
not before this arbor--one off by itself and away from passers-by.

He seated himself on the bench, his eyes overlooking the park. All the hours he had passed
with Kate beneath the wide-spreading trees rose in his mind; the day they had read aloud to
each other, her pretty feet tucked under her so that the dreadful ants couldn't touch her dainty
stockings; the morning when she was late and he had waited and fumed stretching minutes into
hours in his impatience; that summer night when the two had hidden behind the big oak so that
he could kiss her good-night and none of the others see.

With these memories stirring, his letter was forgotten, and his head dropped upon his breast,
as if the weight of all he had lost was greater than he could bear. Grasping his walking-stick
the tighter he began tracing figures in the gravel, his thoughts following each line. Suddenly
his ears caught the sound of a quick step--one he thought strangely familiar.

He raised his eyes.

Kate had passed him and had given no sign of her presence!

He sprang from his seat:

"Kate!--KATE!--Are you going to treat me as my father treated me! Don't, please!--You'll never
see me again--but don't cut me like that: I have never done anything but love you!"

The girl came to a halt, but she did not turn her head, nor did she answer.

"Please, Kate--won't you speak to me? It may be the last time I shall ever see you. I am going
away from Kennedy Square. I was going to write you a letter; I came out here to think of what
I ought to say--"

She raised her head and half turned her trembling body so that she could see his face, her
eyes reading his.

"I didn't think you wanted me to speak to you or you would have looked up."

"I didn't see you until you had passed. Can't we sit down here?--no one will see us."

She suffered him to take her hand and lead her to the bench. There she sat, her eyes still
searching his face--a wondering, eager look, discovering every moment some old remembered spot--an
eyebrow, or the line at the corner of the mouth, or the round of the cheek--each and every
one bringing back to her the days that were past and gone never to return.

"You are going away?" she said at last--"why? Aren't you happy with Uncle George? He would
miss you, I am sure." She had let the scarf fall from her shoulders as she spoke, bringing
into view the full round of her exquisite throat. He had caught its flash, but he could not
trust himself to look the closer.

"Not any more than I shall miss him," he rejoined sadly; "but he has lost almost everything
he had in the bank failure and I cannot have him support me any longer--so I am going to sea."

Kate started forward and laid her hand on his wrist: "To sea!--in a ship! Where?" The inquiry
came with such suddenness and with so keen a note of pain in her voice that Harry's heart gave
a bound. It was not St. George's losses then she was thinking of--she was thinking of him!
He raised his eyes quickly and studied her face the closer; then his heart sank again. No!--he
was wrong--there was only wonder in her gaze; only her usual curiosity to know every detail
of what was going on around her.

With a sigh he resumed his bent position, talking to the end of his walking-stick tracing figures
in the gravel: "I shall go to Rio, probably," he continued in the same despondent tone--"or
China. That's why I called after you. I sail day after to-morrow--Saturday at the latest--and
it may be a good many years before I get back again, and so I didn't want to go, Kate, without
telling you that--that--I forgive you for everything you have done to me--and whether you forgive
me or not, I have kept my promises to you, and I will always keep them as long as I live."

"What does dear Uncle George think of it?" She too was addressing the end of the stick; gaining
time to make up her mind what to do and say. The old wound, of course, could not be opened,
but she might save him and herself from fresh ones.

"He doesn't know I am going; nobody knows but you. I have been a curse to every one who has
been kind to me, and I am going now where there will be nobody but strangers about me. To leave
Uncle George breaks my heart, but so does it break my heart to leave my precious mother and
dear old Alec, who cries all the time and has now taken to his bed, I hear."

She waited, but her name was not added to the list, nor did he raise his head.

"I deserve it all, I suspect," he went on, "or it wouldn't be sent to me; but it's over now.
If I ever come back it will be when I am satisfied with myself; if I never come back, why then
my former hard luck has followed me--that's all. And now may I talk to you, Kate, as I used
to do sometimes?" He straightened up, threw down his cane, and turned his shoulders so he could
look her squarely in the eyes. "If I say anything that offends you you can get up and walk
away and I won't follow you, nor will I add another word. You may never see me again, and if
it is not what I ought to say, you can forget it all when I am gone. Kate!"--he paused, and
for a moment it was all he could do to control himself. "What I want to tell you first is this--that
I haven't had a happy day or hour since that night on the stairs in my father's house. Whether
I was right or wrong I don't know; what followed is what I couldn't help, but that part I don't
regret, and if any one should behave to you as Willits did I would do it over again. What I
do regret is the pain it has caused you. And now here comes this awful sorrow to Uncle George,
and I am the cause of that too."

She turned her face quickly, the color leaving her cheeks as if alarmed. Had he been behaving
badly again? But he swept it away with his next sentence.

"You see, my father refused to pay any of the bills I owed and Uncle George paid them for me--and
I can't have that go on a day longer--certainly not now."

Kate's shoulders relaxed. A sigh of relief spent itself; Harry was still an honest gentleman,
whatever else he might have done!

"And now comes the worst of it, Kate." His voice sank almost to a whisper, as if even the birds
should not hear this part of his confession: "Yes--the worst of it--that I have had all this
to suffer--all this misery to endure--all these insults of my father to bear without you! Always,
before, we have talked things out together; then you were shut away and I could only look up
at your windows and rack my brain wondering where you were and what you were doing. It's all
over now--you love somebody else--but I shall never love anybody else: I can't! I don't want
to! You are the last thing I kiss before I close my eyes; I shut them and kiss only the air--but
it is your lips I feel; and you are the first thing I open them upon when I wake. It will always
be so, Kate--you are my body, my soul, and my life. I shall never have you again, I know, but
I shall have your memory, and that is sweeter and more precious to me than all else in the world!"

"Harry!" There was a strange cadence in her voice--not of self-defence--not of recrimination--only
of overwhelming pity: "Don't you think that I too have had my troubles? Do you think it was
nothing to me to love you as I did and have--" She stopped, drew in her breath as if to bolster
up some inward resolution, and then with a brave lift of the head added: "No, I won't go into
that--not to-day."

"Yes--tell me all of it--you can't hurt me more than you have done. But you may be right--no,
we won't talk of that part of it. And now, Kate, I won't ask you to stay any longer; I am glad
I saw you--it was better than writing." He leaned forward: "Let me look into your face once
more, won't you?--so I can remember the better.... Yes--the same dear eyes--and the hair growing
low on the temples, and the beautiful mouth and--No--I sha'n't forget--I never have." He rose
from his seat and held out his hand: "You'll take it, won't you?--just once--Good-by!"

She had not moved, nor had she grasped his hand; her face was still towards him, her whole
frame tense, the tears crowding to the lids.

"Sit down, Harry. I can't let you go like this. Tell me something more of where you are going.
Why must you go to sea? Can't you support yourself here?--isn't there something you can get
to do? I will see my father and find out if--"

"No, you won't." There was a note almost of defiance in his voice--one she had never heard
before. "I am through with accepting favors from any living man. Hereafter I stand in my own
shoes, independent of everybody. My father is the only person who has a right to give me help,
and as he refuses absolutely to do anything more than pay my board, I must fall back on myself.
I didn't see these things in this same way when Uncle George paid my debts, or even when he
took me into his home as his guest, but I do now."

Something gave a little bound in Kate's heart. This manly independence was one of the things
she had in the old days hoped was in him. What had come over her former lover, she wondered.

"And another thing, Kate"--she was listening eagerly--she could not believe it was Harry who
was speaking--"if you were to tell me this moment that you loved me again and would marry me,
and I still be as I am to-day--outlawed by my father and dependent on charity--I would not
do it. I can't live on your money, and I have none of my own. Furthermore, I owe dear Uncle
George his money in such a way that I can never pay it back except I earn it, and that I can't
do here. To borrow it of somebody else to pay him would be more disgraceful still."

Again her heart gave a bound. Her father had followed the opposite course, and she knew for
a certainty just what some men thought of him, and she could as easily recall half a dozen
younger men who had that very summer been willing to play the same game with herself. Something
warm and sympathetic struggled up through her reserve.

"Would you stay, Harry, if I asked you to?" she said in almost a whisper. She had not meant
to put the question quite in that way, but somehow it had asked itself.

He looked at her with his soft brown eyes, the long lashes shading their tender brilliancy.
He had guessed nothing of the newly awakened throb in her heart; only his situation stared
him in the face, and in this she had no controlling interest; nor could she now that she loved
somebody else.

"No, Kate, it wouldn't alter anything. It would be putting off the day when it would all have
to be done over again; and then it would be still worse because of the hopes it had raised."

"Do you really mean, Harry, that you would not stay if I asked you?" It was not her heart which
was speaking, but the pride of the woman who had always had her own way.

"I certainly do," he answered emphatically, his voice ringing clear. "Every day I lose is just
so much taken from a decent, independent life."

A sudden revulsion of feeling swept through her. This was the last thing she had expected from
Harry. What had come over him that he should deny her anything?--he who had always obeyed her
slightest wish. Then a new thought entered her head--why should she humble herself to ask any
more questions? With a quick movement she gained her feet and stood toying with her dress,
arranging the lace scarf about her throat, tightening the wide strings that held her teacup
of a bonnet close to her face. She raised her eyes and stole a glance at him. The lips were
still firmly set with the resolve that had tightened them, but his eyes were brimming tears.

As suddenly as her pride had risen did it die out. All the tenderness of her nature welled
up. She made one step in his direction. She was about to speak, but he had not moved, nor did
his face relax. She saw that nothing could shake his resolve; they were as far apart as if
the seas already rolled between them. She held out her hand, and with that same note of infinite
pathos which he knew so well when she spoke straight from her heart, said as she laid her fingers
in his:

"Good-by, and God bless you, Harry."

"Good-by, Kate," he murmured in barely audible tones. "May I--may I--kiss you on the forehead,
as I always used to do when I left you--"

She bent her head: he leaned over and touched the spot with his lips as reverently as a sinner
kisses the garment of a saint, then, choking down her tears, all her body unstrung, her mind
in a whirl, she turned and passed out of the park.

That same afternoon Kate called her father into her little sitting-room at the top of the stairs
and shut the door.

"Harry Rutter is going to sea as a common sailor on one of the ships leaving here in a couple
of days. Can you find out which one?--it may be one of your own." He was still perfunctory
agent of the line.

"Young Rutter going to sea!"--the nomenclature of "my dear Harry" had ended since the colonel
had disinherited him. "Well--that is news! I suspect that will be the best place for him; then
if he plays any of his pranks there will be somebody around with a cat-o'-nine-tails to take
it out of him. Going to sea, is he?"

Kate looked at him with lowered lids, her lips curling slightly, but she did not defend the
culprit. It was only one of what Prim called his "jokes:" he was the last man in the world
to wish any such punishment. Moreover, she knew her father much better than the Honorable Prim
knew his daughter, and whenever she had a favor to ask was invariably careful not to let his
little tea-kettle boil over.

"Only a short time ago, father, you got a berth as supercargo on one of my grandfather's ships
for Mark Gilbert. Can't you do it for Harry?"

"But, Kate, that was quite a different thing. Mark's father came to me and asked it as a special
favor." His assumed authority at the shipping office rarely extended to the appointing of officers--not
when the younger partners objected.

"Well, Harry's father won't come to you, nor will Harry; and it isn't a different thing. It's
exactly the same thing so far as you are concerned, and there is a greater reason for Harry,
for he is alone in the world and he is not used to hard work of any kind, and it is cruel to
make a common sailor of him."

"Why, I thought Temple was fathering him."

"So Uncle George has, and would always look after him, but Harry is too brave and manly to
live upon him any longer, now that Uncle George has lost most of his money. Will you see Mr.
Pendergast, or shall I go down to the office?"

Prim mused for a moment. "There may not be a vacancy," he ventured, "but I will inquire. The
Ranger sails on Friday for the River Plate, and I will have Mr. Pendergast come and see me.
Supercargoes are of very little use, my dear, unless they have had some business training,
and this young man, of course, has had none at all."

"This young man, indeed!" thought Kate with a sigh, stifling her indignation. "Poor Harry!--no
one need treat him any longer with even common courtesy, now that St. George, his last hold,
had been swept away."

"I think on the whole I had better attend to it myself," she added with some impatience. "I
don't want anything to go wrong about it."

"No, I'll see him, Kate; just leave it all to me."

He had already decided what to do--or what he would try to do--when he first heard the boy
wanted to leave the country. What troubled him was what the managing partner of the line might
think of the proposition. As long as Harry remained at home and within reach any number of
things might happen--even a return of the old love. With the scapegrace half-way around the
world some other man might have a chance--Willits, especially, who had proved himself in every
way worthy of his daughter, and who would soon be one of the leading lawyers of the State if
he kept on.

With the closing of the door upon her father, Kate threw herself upon her lounge. One by one
the salient features of her interview with Harry passed in review: his pleading for some word
of comfort; some note of forgiveness with which to cheer the hours of his exile.--"You are
the last thing I kiss before I close my eyes." Then his open defiance of her expressed wishes
when they conflicted with his own set purpose of going away and staying away until he made
up his mind to return. While the first brought with it a certain contented satisfaction--something
she had expected and was glad of--the last aroused only indignation and revolt. Her brow tightened,
and the determination of the old seadog--her grandfather Barkeley--played over her countenance.
She no longer, then, filled Harry's life, controlling all his actions; she no longer inspired
his hopes. Rather than marry her he would work as a common sailor. Yes--he had said so, and
with his head up and his voice ringing brave and clear. She was proud of him for it--she had
never been so proud of him--but why no trace of herself in his resolve; except in his allusion
to the duel, when he said he would do it again should any one insult her? It was courteous,
of course, for him to feel that way, however much she abhorred the system of settling such
disputes. But, then, he would do that for any other woman--would, no doubt, for some woman
he had not yet seen. In this he was the son of his father and the same Harry--but in everything
else he was a changed man--and never more changed than in his attitude toward her.

With these thoughts racking her brain she rose from the lounge and began pacing the floor,
peering out between the curtains of her room, her eyes wandering over the park as if she could
still see him between the branches. Then her mind cleared and the true situation developed
itself:--for months she had hugged to herself the comforting thought that she had only to stretch
out her hand and bring him to her feet. He had now looked her full in the face and proclaimed
his freedom. It was as if she had caged a bird and found the door open and the prisoner singing
in a tree overhead.

That same night she sat by her wood fire in her chamber, her old black mammy--Mammy Henny--bending
close, combing out her marvellous hair. She had been studying the coals, watching the little
castles pile and fall; the quick smothering of slowly fading sparks under a blanket of gray
ashes, and the wavering, flickering light that died on the curling smoke. She had not spoken
for a long time, when the old woman roused her.

"Whar was you dis mawnin', honey chile? Mister Willits done wait mo'n ha'f a hour, den he say
he come back an' fetch his sorrel horse wid him dis arternoon an' take ye ridin'. But he ain't
come--dat is, Ben done tol' me so."

"No, mammy," she answered wearily--"I sent him word not to--I didn't feel like riding to-day."

CHAPTER XIX

Over two years have passed away since that mournful night when Harry with his hand in St. George's,
his voice choking, had declared his determination to leave him the next day and seek his fortunes
across the seas.

It was a cruel blow to Temple, coming as it did on the heels of his own disaster, but when
the first shock had passed he could but admire the lad for his pluck and love him the better
for his independence.

"All right, my son," he had said, concealing as best he could his intense suffering over the
loss of his companion. "I'll try and get along. But remember I am here--and the door is always
open. I don't blame you--I would do the same thing were I in your place. And now about Kate--what
shall I say to her?"

"Nothing. I said it all this morning. She doesn't love me any more--she would have passed me
by without speaking had I not called to her. She'll be married to Willits before I come back--if
I ever do come back. But leaving Kate is easier than leaving you. You have stuck to me all
the way through, and Kate--well--perhaps she hasn't understood--perhaps her father has been
talking to her--I don't know. Anyhow, it's all over. If I had had any doubts about it before,
this morning's talk settled it. The sea is the best place for me. I can support myself anyway
for a while until I can help you."

Yes! the boy was right, St. George had said to himself. It was all over between them. Kate's
reason had triumphed at last. She, perhaps, was not to blame. Her experiences had been trying
and she was still confronted by influences bitterly opposed to Harry, and largely in favor
of Willits, for, weak specimen as Prim was, he was still her father, and in so important a
step as her marriage, must naturally exercise authority. As for his own influence, that, he
realized, had come to an end at their last interview: the whole thing, he must admit, was disappointing--cruelly
so--the keenest disappointment of his life.

Many a night since he bid Harry good-by had he sat alone by that same fire, his dogs his only
companions, the boy's words ringing in his ears: "Leaving Kate is easier than leaving you!"
Had it been the other way and he the exile, it would have been nearer the truth, he often thought,
for nothing in his whole life had left so great a void in his heart as the loss of the boy
he loved. Not that he was ever completely disheartened; that was not his nature; there was
always daylight ahead--the day when Harry would come back and their old life begin again. With
this in store for him he had led his life as best he could, visiting his friends in the country,
entertaining in a simple, inexpensive way, hunting at Wesley, where he and Peggy Coston would
exchange confidences and funny stories; dining out; fishing in the early spring; getting poorer
and poorer in pocket, and yet never complaining, his philosophy being that it would be brighter
in the morning, and it always was--to him.

And yet if the truth be told his own situation had not improved--in fact, it had grown steadily
worse. Only one payment of interest had been made on the mortgage and the owner was already
threatening foreclosure proceedings. Pawson's intervention alone had staved off the fatal climax
by promising the holder to keep the loan alive by the collection of some old debts--borrowed
money and the like--due St. George for years and which his good nature had allowed to run on
indefinitely until some of them were practically outlawed. Indeed it was only through resources
like this, in all of which Pawson helped, and with the collecting of some small ground rents,
that kept Todd and Jemima in their places and the larder comfortably filled. As to the bank--there
was still hope that some small percentage would be paid the depositors, it being the general
opinion that the directors were personally liable because of the irregularities which the smash
had uncovered--but this would take months, if not years, to work out.

His greatest comfort was in the wanderer's letters. These he would watch for with the eagerness
of a girl hungry for news of her distant lover. For the first few months these came by every
possible mail, most of them directed to himself; others to his mother, Mrs. Rutter driving
in from Moorlands to compare notes with St. George. Then, as the boy made his way further into
the interior the intervals were greater--sometimes a month passed without news of him.

"We are short-handed," he wrote St. George, "owing to fever on the voyage out on the Ranger,
and though I am supercargo and sit at the captain's table, I have to turn to and work like
any of the others--fine exercise, but my hands are cracked and blistered and full of tar. I'll
have to wear gloves the next time I dine with you."

Not a word of this to his mother--no such hardships for her tender ears:

"Tell me about Kate, mother"--this from Rio--"how she looks; what she says; does she ever mention
my name? My love to Alec. Is Matthew still caring for Spitfire, or has my father sold her?"
Then followed the line: "Give my father my respectful regards; I would send my love, but he
no longer cares for it."

The dear lady did not deliver the message. Indeed Harry's departure had so widened the breach
between the colonel and herself that they practically occupied different parts of the house
as far removed from each other as possible. She had denounced him first to his face for the
boy's self-imposed exile, and again behind his back to her intimates. Nor did her resolve waver
even when the colonel was thrown from his horse and so badly hurt that his eyesight was greatly
impaired. "It is a judgment on you," she had said, drawing her frail body up to its full height.
"You will now learn what other people suffer," and would have kept on upstairs to her own room
had not her heart softened at his helplessness--a new role for the colonel.

He had made no answer at the time: he never answered her back. She was too frail to be angry
with, and then she was right about his being the cause of her suffering--the first cause of
it, at least. He had not yet arrived at the point where he censured himself for all that had
happened. In fact since Harry's sudden exit, made without a word to anybody at Moorlands except
his mother and Alec, who went to town on a hurry message,--a slight which cut him to the quick--he
had steadily laid the blame on everybody else connected with the affair;--generally on St.
George for his interference in his peace-making programme at the club and his refusal, when
ruined financially, to send the boy back to him in an humble and contrite spirit. Neither had
he recovered from the wrath he had felt when, having sent John Gorsuch to ascertain from St.
George the amount of money he had paid out for his son, Temple had politely sent Gorsuch, in
charge of Todd, downstairs to Pawson, who in turn, after listening to Todd's whispered message,
had with equal politeness shown Gorsuch the door, the colonel's signed check--the amount unfilled--still
in Gorsuch's pocket.

It was only when the Lord of Moorlands went into town to spend an hour or so with Kate--and
he was a frequent visitor prior to his accident--that his old manner returned. He loved the
girl dearly and was never tired of talking to her. She was the only woman who would listen
when he poured out his heart.

And Kate always welcomed him gladly. She liked strong, decided men even if they sometimes erred
in their conclusions. Her grandfather, old Captain Barkeley, had had the same masterfulness.
He had been in absolute command in his earlier years, and he had kept in command all his life.
His word was law, and he was generally right. She was twelve years old when he died, and had,
therefore, ample opportunity to know. It was her grandfather's strong personality, in fact,
which had given her so clear an idea of her father's many weaknesses. Rutter, she felt, was
a combination of both Barkeley and Prim--forceful and yet warped by prejudices; dominating
yet intolerant; able to do big things and contented with little ones. It was forcefulness,
despite his many shortcomings, which most appealed to her.

Moreover, she saw much of Harry in him. It was that which made her so willing to listen--she
continually comparing the father to the son. These comparisons were invariably made in a circle,
beginning at Rutter's brown eyes, taking in his features and peculiarities--many of them reproduced
in his son's--such as the firm set of the lips and the square line of the chin--and ending,
quite naturally, with the brown orbs again. While Harry's matched the color and shape, and
often the fierce glare of the father's, they could also, she said to herself, shine with the
soft light of the mother's. It was from the mother's side, then, that there came the willingness
to yield to whatever tempted him--it may be to drink--to a false sense of honor--to herself:
Harry being her slave instead of her master. And the other men around her--so far as yielding
was concerned (here her brow would tighten and her lips straighten)--were no better. Even Uncle
George must take her own "No" for an answer and believe it when she meant quite a different
thing. And once more would her soul break out in revolt over the web in which she had become
entangled, and once more would she cry herself to sleep.

Nobody but her old black mammy knew how tragic had been her sufferings, how many bitter hours
she had passed, nor how many bitter tears she had shed. Yet even old Henny could not comfort
her, nor was there any one else to whom the girl could pour out her heart. She had, it is true,
kept up her intimacy with her Uncle George--hardly a week passed that she was not a visitor
at his house or he at hers--but they had long since refrained from discussing Harry. Not because
he did not want to talk about him, but because she would not let him--Of course not!

To Richard Horn, however, strange to say, she often turned--not so much for confidences as
for a broader understanding of life. The thoughtful inventor was not so hedged about by social
restrictions, and would break out in spontaneous admiration of Harry, saying with a decisive
nod of his head, "A fine, splendid young fellow, my dear Kate; I recognized it first at St.
George's dinner to Mr. Poe, and if I may say so, a much-abused young man whose only sin is
that he, like many another about us, has been born under a waning star in a sky full of murky
clouds; one that the fresh breeze of a new civilization will some day clear away"--a deduction
which Kate could not quite grasp, but which comforted her greatly.

It delighted her, too, to hear him talk of the notable occurrences taking place about them.
"You are wonderfully intelligent, my dear," he had said to her on one occasion, "and should
miss nothing of the developments that are going on about us;" and in proof of it had the very
next day taken her to an exhibition of Mr. Morse's new telegraph, given at the Institute, at
which two operators, each with an instrument, the men in sight of each other, but too far apart
to be in collusion, were sending and answering the messages through wires stretched around
the hall. She, at Richard's suggestion, had written a message herself, which she handed to
the nearest operator who had ticked it to his fellow, and who at once read it to the audience.
Even then many doubting Thomases had cried out "Collusion," until Richard, rising in his seat,
had not only endorsed the truth of the reading, but explained the invention, his statement
silencing all opposition because of his well-known standing and knowledge of kindred sciences.

Richard's readings also, from which Kate was never absent, and which had now been resumed at
his own house, greatly interested her. These of late had been devoted to many of Poe's earlier
poems and later tales, for despite the scene at St. George's the inventor had never ceased
to believe in the poet.

And so with these occupations, studies, investigations, and social pleasures--she never missing
a ball or party (Willits always managing to be with her)--and the spending of the summer months
at the Red Sulphur, where she had been pursued by half a dozen admirers--one a titled Englishman--had
the days and hours of the years of Harry's absence passed slowly away.

At the end of the second winter a slight change occurred in the monotony of her life. Her constant,
unwavering devotee, Langdon Willits, fell ill and had to be taken to the Eastern Shore, where
the same old lot of bandages--that is of the same pattern--and the same loyal sister were impressed
into service to nurse him back to health. The furrow Harry's bullet had ploughed in his head
still troubled him at times, especially in the hot weather, and a horseback ride beside Kate
one August day, with the heat in the nineties, had started the subsoil of his cranium to aching
with such vehemence that Teackle had promptly packed it in ice and ten days later its owner
in blankets and had put them both aboard the bay boat bound for the Eastern Shore.

Whether this new irritant--and everything seemed to annoy her now--had begun to tell on our
beautiful Kate, or whether the gayety of the winter both at home and in Washington, where she
had spent some weeks during the season, had tired her out, certain it was that when the spring
came the life had gone out of her step and the color from her cheeks. Mammy Henny had noticed
it and had coddled her the more, crooning and petting her; and her father had noticed it and
had begun to be anxious, and at last St. George had stalked in and cried out in that breezy,
joyous way of his that nothing daunted:

"Here, you sweetheart!--what have you been doing to your cheeks--all the roses out of them
and pale as two lilies--and you never out of bed until twelve o'clock in the day and looking
then as if you hadn't had a wink of sleep all night. Not a word out of you, Seymour, until
I've finished. I'm going to take Kate down to Tom Coston's and keep her there till she gets
well. Too many stuffy balls--too many late suppers--oyster roasts and high doings. None of
that at Tom's. Up at six and to bed at ten. I've just had a letter from him and dear Peggy
is crazy to have us come. Take your mare along, Kate, and you won't lack fresh air. Now what
do you say, Seymour?"

Of course the Honorable Prim bobbed his honorable head and said he had been worried himself
over Kate's loss of appetite, and that if Temple would, etc., etc.--he would--etc., etc.--and
so Mammy Henny began to get pink and white and other fluffy things together, and Ben, with
Todd to help, led Joan, her own beloved saddle horse, down to the dock and saw that she was
safely lodged between decks, and then up came a coach (all this was two days later) and my
lady drove off with two hair trunks in front and a French bonnet box behind--St. George beside
her, and fat Mammy Henny in white kerchief and red bandanna, opposite, and Todd in one of St.
George's old shooting-jackets on the box next the driver, with his feet on two of the dogs,
the others having been loaned to a friend.

And it was a great leave-taking when the party reached the wharf. Not only were three or four
of her girl friends present, but a dozen or more of the old merchants forsook their desks,
when the coach unlimbered, most of them crossing the cobbles--some bare-headed, and all of
them in high stocks and swallow-tail coats--pens behind their ears, spectacles on their pates--to
bid the young princess good-by.

For Kate was still "our Kate," in the widest and broadest sense and the pride and joy of all
who knew her, and many who didn't. That she had a dozen beaux--and that some of them had tried
to bore holes in each other for love of her; and that one of them was now a wanderer and another
in a state of collapse, if report were true--was quite as it should be. Men had died for women
a hundred times less worthy and a thousand times less beautiful, and men would die of love
again. When at last she made up her mind she would choose the right man, and in the meantime
God bless her for just being alive.

And she was never more alive or more charming than to-day.

"Oh, how delightful of you, Mr. Murdoch, and you too, Mr. Bowdoin--and Max--and all of you,
to cross those wretched stones. No, wait, I'll come to you--" she had called out, when with
a stamp of her little feet she had shaken the pleats from her skirt--adding when they had all
kissed her hand in turn--"Yes--I am going down to be dairy-maid at Peggy Coston's," at which
the bald-headed old fellows, with their hands upraised in protest at so great a sacrilege,
bowed to the ground, their fingers on their ruffled shirt-fronts, and the younger ones lifted
their furry hats and kept them in the air until she had crossed the gang-plank and Todd and
Mammy Henny, and Ben who had come to help, lost their several breaths getting the impatient
dogs and baggage aboard--and so she sailed away with Uncle George as chaperon, the whole party
throwing kisses back and forth.

CHAPTER XX

Their reception at Wesley, the ancestral home of the Costons, although it was late at night
when they arrived, was none the less joyous. Peggy was the first to welcome the invalid, and
Tom was not far behind.

"Give her to me, St. George," bubbled Peggy, enfolding the girl in her arms. "You blessed thing!
Oh, how glad I am to get hold of you! They told me you were ill, child--not a word of truth
in it! No, Mr. Coston, you sha'n't even have one of her little fingers until I get through
loving her. What's your mammy's name--Henny? Well, Henny, you take Miss Kate's things into
her room--that one at the top of the stairs."

And then the Honorable Tom Coston said he'd be doggoned if he was going to wait another minute,
and he didn't--for Kate kissed him on both cheeks and gave him her father's message, congratulating
him on his appointment as judge, and thanking him in advance for all the kindness he would
show his daughter.

But it was not until she awoke next morning and looked out between the posts of her high bedstead
through the small, wide-open window overlooking the bay that her heart gave the first bound
of real gladness. She loved the sky and the dash of salt air, laden now with the perfume of
budding fruit trees, that blew straight in from the sea. She loved, too, the stir and sough
of the creaking pines and the cheery calls from the barnyard. Here she could get her mind settled;
here, too, she could forget all the little things that had bothered her--there would be no
more invitations to accept or decline; no promises she must keep. She and her Uncle George
could have one long holiday--she needed it and, goodness knows, he needed it after all his
troubles--and they would begin as soon as breakfast was over. And they did--the dogs plunging
ahead, the two hand in hand, St. George, guide and philosopher, pointing out this and that
characteristic feature of the once famous estate and dilating on its past glory.

"Even in my father's day," he continued, his face lighting up, "it was one of the great show
places of the county. The stables held twenty horses and a coach, besides no end of gigs and
carryalls. This broad road on which we walk was lined with flower-beds and shaded by live-oaks.
Over there, near that little grove, were three great barns and lesser out-buildings, besides
the negro quarters, smoke-houses, and hay-ricks. Really a wonderful place in its day, Kate."

Then he went on to tell of how the verandas were shaded with honeysuckles, and the halls, drawing-rooms,
and dining-room crowded with furniture; how there were yellow damask curtains, and screens,
and hair-cloth sofas and a harmonicon of musical glasses which was played by wetting one's
fingers in a bowl of water and passing them over the rims--he had played on it himself when
a boy; and slaves galore--nearly one hundred of them, not to mention a thousand acres of tillable
land to plough and harrow, as well as sheep, oxen, pigs, chickens, ducks--everything that a
man of wealth and position might have had in the old days, and about every one of which St.
George had a memory.

Then when Tom's father, who was the sole heir, took charge (here his voice dropped to a whisper)
dissolution proceedings set in--and Tom finished them! and St. George sighed heavily as he
pointed out the changes:--the quarters in ruins, the stables falling to pieces, the gates tied
up with strings or swinging loose; and the flocks, herds, and live-stock things of the past.
Nor had a negro been left--none Tom really owned: one by one they had been sold or hired out,
or gone off nobody knew where, he being too lazy, or too indifferent, or too good-natured,
to hunt them up. The house, as Kate had seen, was equally neglected. Even what remained of
the old furniture was on its last legs--the curtains patched, or in shreds--the carpets worn
into holes.

Kate listened eagerly, but she did not sigh. It was all charming to her in the soft spring
sunshine, the air a perfume, the birds singing, the blossoms bursting, the peach-trees anthems
of praise--and best of all her dear Uncle George strolling at her side. And then everything
was so clean and fresh and sweet in every nook and corner of the tumble-down house. Peggy,
as she soon discovered, looked after that--in fact Peggy looked after everything that required
looking after--and everything did--including the judge. Mr. Coston was tired, Peggy would say,
or Mr. Coston had not been very well, so she just did it herself instead of bothering him.
Since his promotion it was generally "the judge" who was too tired, being absorbed in his court
duties, etc., etc. But it always came with a laugh, and it was always genuine, for to wait
upon him and look after him and minister to him was her highest happiness.

Good for nothing as he would have been to some women--unpractical, lazy--a man few sensible
wives would have put up with--Peggy adored him; and so did his children adore him, and so,
for that matter, did his neighbors, many of whom, although they ridiculed him behind his back,
could never escape the charm of his personality whenever they sat beside his rocking-chair.

This chair--the only comfortable chair in the house, by the way--had, in his less distinguished
days, been his throne. In it he would sit all day long, cutting and whittling, filing and polishing
curious trinkets of tortoise-shell for watch-guards and tiny baskets made of cherry-stones,
cunningly wrought and finished. He was an expert, too, in corn-cob pipes, which he carved for
all his friends; and pin-wheels for everybody's children. When it came, however, to such matters
as a missing hinge to the front door, a brick under a tottering chimney, the straightening
of a falling fence, the repairing of a loose lock on the smoke-house--or even the care of the
family carryall, which despite its great age and infirmities was often left out in the rain
to rust and ruin--these things must, of course, wait until the overworked father of the house
found time to look after them.

The children loved him the most. They asked for nothing better than to fix him in his big chair
by the fender, throw upon the fire a basket of bark chips from the wood-yard, and enough pitch-pine
knots to wake them up, and after filling his pipe and lighting it, snuggle close--every bend
and curve of the wide-armed splint-bottomed comfort packed full, all waiting to hear him tell
one of his stories. Sometimes it was the tale of the fish and the cuff-button--how he once
dropped his sleeve-link overboard, and how a year afterward he was in a shallop on the Broadwater
fishing for rockflsh when he caught a splendid fellow, which when Aunt Patience cleaned--(here
his voice would drop to a whisper)--"What do you think!--why out popped the sleeve-link that
was in his cuff this minute!" And for the hundredth time the bit of gold would be examined
by each child in turn. Or it was the witch story--about the Yahoo wild man with great horns
and a lashing tail, who lived in the swamp and went howling and prowling about for plunder
and prey. (This was always given with a low, prolonged growl, like a dog in pain--all the children
shuddering.) And then followed the oft-told tale of how this same terrible Yahoo once came
up with Hagar, who was riding a witch pony to get to the witches' dance in the cane-brake,
and how he made off with her to the swamp, where she had had to cook for him--ever--ever--ever
since. (Long-drawn breath, showing that all was over for that day at least.)

Todd got the true inwardness of the situation before he had been many days at Wesley: for the
scene with the children was often repeated when court was not in session.

"Fo' Gawd, Marse George, hab you had time to watch dat gemman, de jedge? Dey do say he's sumpin'
great, but I tell ye he's dat lazy a fly stuck in 'lasses 'd pass him on de road."

St. George laughed heartily in reply, but he did not reprimand him.

"What makes you think so, Todd?"

"Can't help thinkin' so. I wuz standin' by de po'ch yisterday holdin' Miss Kate's mare, when
I yere de mistis ask de jedge ter go out an' git 'er some kindlin' f'om de wood-pile. He sot
a-rockin' hisse'f in dat big cheer ob his'n an' I yered him say--'Yes, in a minute,' but he
didn't move. Den she holler ag'in at him an' still he rock hisse'f, sayin' he's comin'. Den,
fust thing I knowed out she come to de woodpile an' git it herse'f, an' den when she pass him
wid 'er arms full o' wood he look up an' say--'Peggy, come yere an' kiss me--I dunno what we'd
do widout ye--you'se de Lawd's anointed, sho'.'"

Kate got no end of amusement out of him, and would often walk with him to court that she might
listen to his drolleries--especially his queer views of life--the simplest and most unaffected
to which she had ever bent her ears. Now and then, as time went on, despite her good-natured
toleration of his want of independence--he being always dominated by his wife--she chanced,
to her great surprise, upon some nuggets of hard common-sense of so high an assay that they
might really be graded as wisdom--his analysis of men and women being particularly surprising.
Those little twinkling, and sometimes sleepy, eyes of his, now that she began to study him
the closer, reminded her of the unreadable eyes of an elephant she had once seen--eyes that
presaged nothing but inertia, until whack went the trunk and over toppled the boy who had teased
him.

And with this new discovery there developed at last a certain respect for the lazy, good-natured,
droll old man. Opinions which she had heretofore laughed at suddenly became of value; criticisms
which she had passed over in silence seemed worthy of further consideration.

Peggy, however, fitted into all the tender places of her heart. She had never known her own
mother; all she remembered was a face bending close and a soft hand that tucked in the coverlet
one night when she couldn't sleep. The memory had haunted her from the days of her childhood--clear
and distinct, with every detail in place. Had there been light enough in her mother's bed-room,
she was sure she could have added the dear face itself to her recollection. Plump, full-bosomed,
rosy-cheeked Peggy (fifteen years younger than Tom) supplied the touch and voice, and all the
tenderness as well, that these sad memories recalled, and all that the motherless girl had
yearned for.

And the simple, uneventful life--one without restraints of any kind, greatly satisfied her:
so different from her own at home with Prim as Chief Regulator. Everybody, to her delight,
did as they pleased, each one following the bent of his or her inclination. St. George was
out at daybreak in the duck-blinds, or, breakfast over, roaming the fields with his dogs, Todd
a close attendant. The judge would stroll over to court an hour or more late, only to find
an equally careless and contented group blocking up the door--"po' white trash" most of them,
each one with a grievance. Whenever St. George accompanied him, and he often did, his Honor
would spend even less time on the bench--cutting short both ends of the session, Temple laughing
himself sore over the judge's decisions.

"And he stole yo' shoat and never paid for him?" he heard his honor say one day in a hog case,
where two farmers who had been waiting hours for Tom's coming were plaintiff and defendant.
"How did you know it was yo' shoat--did you mark him?"

"No, suh."

"Tie a tag around his neck?"

"No, suh."

"Well, you just keep yo' hogs inside yo' lot. Too many loose hogs runnin' 'round. Case is dismissed
and co't is adjourned for the day," which, while very poor law, was good common-sense, stray
hogs on the public highway having become a nuisance.

With these kindly examples before her, Kate soon fell into the ways of the house. If she did
not wish to get up she lay abed and Peggy brought her breakfast with her own hands. If, when
she did leave her bed, she went about in pussy-slippers and a loose gown of lace and frills
without her stays, Peggy's only protest was against her wearing anything else--so adorable
was she. When this happy, dreamy indolence began to pall upon her--and she could not stand
it for long--she would be up at sunrise helping Peggy wash and dress her frolicsome children
or get them off to school, and this done, would assist in the housework--even rolling the pastry
with her own delicate palms, or sitting beside the bubbling, spontaneous woman, needle in hand,
aiding with the family mending--while Peggy, glad of the companionship, would sit with ears
open, her mind alert, probing--probing--trying to read the heart of the girl whom she loved
the better every day. And so there had crept into Kate's heart a new peace that was as fresh
sap to a dying plant, bringing the blossoms to her cheeks and the spring of wind-blown branches
to her step.

Then one fine morning, to the astonishment of every one, and greatly to Todd's disgust, no
less a person than Mr. Langdon Willits of "Oak Hill" (distant three miles away) dismounted
at Coston's front porch, and throwing the reins to the waiting darky, stretched his convalescent,
but still shaky, legs in the direction of the living-room, there to await the arrival of "Miss
Seymour of Kennedy Square," who, so he informed Todd, "expected him."

Todd scraped a foot respectfully in answer, touched his cocoanut of a head with his monkey
claw of a finger, waited until the broad back of the red-headed gentleman had been swallowed
up by the open door, and then indulged in this soliloquy:

"Funny de way dem bullets hab o' missin' folks. Des a leetle furder down an' dere wouldn't
'a' been none o' dis yere foolishness. Pity Marse Harry hadn't practised some mo'. Ef he had
ter do it ag'in I reckon he'd pink him so he neber be cavortin' 'roun' like he is now."

Willits's sudden appearance filled St. George with ill-concealed anxiety. He did not believe
in this parade of invalidism, nor did he like Kate's encouraging smile when she met him--and
there was no question that she did smile--and, more portentous still, that she enjoyed it.
Other things, too, she grew to enjoy, especially the long rides in the woods and over to the
broad water. For Willits's health after a few days of the sunshine of Kate's companionship
had undergone so renovating a process that the sorrel horse now arrived at the porch almost
every day, whereupon Kate's Joan would be led out, and the smiled-upon gentleman in English
riding-boots and brown velvet jacket and our gracious lady in Lincoln green habit with wide
hat and sweeping plume would mount their steeds and be lost among the pines.

Indeed, to be exact, half of Kate's time was now spent in the saddle, Willits riding beside
her. And with each day's outing a new and, to St. George, a more disturbing intimacy appeared
to be growing between them. Now it was Willits's sister who had to be considered and especially
invited to Wesley--a thin wisp of a woman with tortoise-shell sidecombs and bunches of dry
curls, who always dressed in shiny black silk and whose only ornament was her mother's hair
set in a breastpin; or it was his father by whom she must sit when he came over in his gig--a
bluff, hearty man who generally wore a red waistcoat with big bone buttons and high boots with
tassels in front.

This last confidential relation, when the manners and bearing of the elder man came under his
notice, seemed to St. George the most unaccountable of all. Departures from the established
code always jarred upon him, and the gentleman in the red waistcoat and tasselled boots often
wandered so far afield that he invariably set St. George's teeth on edge. Although he had never
met Kate before, he called her by her first name after the first ten minutes of their acquaintance--his
son, he explained, having done nothing but sound her praises for the past two years, an excuse
which carried no weight in gentleman George's mind because of its additional familiarity. He
had never dared, he knew, to extend that familiarity to Peggy--it had always been "Mrs. Coston"
to her and it had always been "Mr. Coston" to Tom, and it was now "your Honor" or "judge" to
the dispenser of justice. For though the owner of Oak Hill lived within a few miles of the
tumble-down remnant that sheltered the Costons; and though he had fifty servants to their one,
or half a one--and broad acres in proportion, to say nothing of flocks and herds--St. George
had always been aware that he seldom crossed their porch steps or they his. That little affair
of some fifty or more years ago was still remembered, and the children of people who did that
sort of thing must, of course, pay the penalty. Even Peggy never failed to draw the line. "Very
nice people, my dear," he had heard her say to Kate one day when the subject of the younger
man's family had come up. "Mr. Willits senior is a fine, open-hearted man, and does a great
deal of good in the county with his money--quite a politician, and they do say has a fair chance
of some time being governor of the State. But very few of us about here would want to marry
into the family, all the same. Oh no, my dear Kate, of course there was nothing against his
grandmother. She was a very nice woman, I believe, and I've often heard my own mother speak
of her. Her father came from Albemarle Sound, if I am right, and was old John Willits's overseer.
The girl was his daughter."

Kate had made no answer. Who Langdon Willits's grandmother was, or whether he had any grandmother
at all, did not concern her in the least. She rather admired the young Albemarle Sound girl
for walking boldly into the Willits family--low born as she was--and making them respect her.

But none of Peggy's outspoken warnings nor any of St. George's silent acceptances of the several
situations--always a mark of his disapproval--checked the game of love-making which was going
on--the give-and-take stage of it, with the odds varying with each new shifting of the cards,
both Peggy and St. George growing the more nervous.

"She's going to accept him, St. George," Peggy had said to him one morning as he stood behind
her chair while she was shelling the peas for dinner. "I didn't think so when he first came,
but I believe it now. I have said all I could to her. She has cuddled up in my arms and cried
herself sick over it, but she won't hold out much longer. Young Rutter left her heart all torn
and bleeding and this man has bound up the sore places. She will never love anybody that way
again--and may be it is just as well. He'd have kept her guessing all her life as to what he'd
do next. I wish Willits's blood was better, for she's a dear, sweet child and proud as she
can be, only she's proud over different things from what I would be. But you can make up your
mind to it--she'll keep him dangling for a while yet, as she did last summer at the Red Sulphur,
but she'll be his wife in a year or less--you mark my words. You haven't yet heard from the
first one, have you?--as to when he's coming home?"

St. George hadn't heard--he sighed in return--a habit of his lately: No, not for two months
or more--not since the letter in which Harry said he had left the ship and had gone up into
the interior. He had, he told her, mentioned the boy's silence to Kate in a casual way, watching
the effect the news produced upon her--but after the remark that the mails were always irregular
from those far-away countries, she had turned the conversation into other channels, she having
caught sight of Willits, who had just dismounted from his horse.

As to St. George's own position in the affair he felt that his hands were still so firmly tied
that he could do nothing one way or the other. His personal intercourse with Willits had been
such as he would always have with a man with whom he was on speaking terms, but it never passed
that border. He was courteous, careful of his speech, and mindful of the young man's devotion
to Kate, whose guardian for the time being he was, but he neither encouraged nor thwarted his
suit. Kate was of age and was fully competent to decide for herself--extremely competent, for
that matter.

How little this clear reader of women's hearts--and scores had been spread out before him--knew
of Kate's, no one but the girl herself could have told. That she was adrift on an open sea
without a rudder, and that she had already begun to lose confidence both in her seamanship
and in her compass, was becoming more and more apparent to her every day she lived. All she
knew positively was that she had been sailing before the wind for some weeks past with everything
flying loose, and that the time had now come for her either to "go about" or keep on her course.

Her suitor's family she had carefully considered. She had also studied his environment and
the impression he made upon those who had known him longest:--she must now focus her mental
lenses on the man himself. He had, she knew, graduated with honors, being the valedictorian
of his class; had risen rapidly in his profession, and, from what her father said, would soon
reach a high place among his brother lawyers. There was even talk of sending him to the legislature,
where her own father, the Honorable Prim, had achieved his title. She wished, of course, that
Mr. Willits's hair was not quite so red; she wished, too, that the knuckles on his hands were
not so large and bony--and that he was not always at her beck and call; but these, she was
forced to admit, were trifles in the make-up of a fine man. There was, however, a sane mind
under the carrot-colored hair and a warm palm inside the knotted knuckles, and that was infinitely
more important than little physical peculiarities which one would forget as life went on. As
to his periods of ill health, these she herself could have prevented had she told him the whole
truth that night on the stairs, or the day before when she had parried his direct proposal
of marriage--a piece of stupidity for which she never failed to blame herself.

His future conduct did not trouble her in the least. She had long since become convinced that
Willits would never again become intemperate. He had kept his promise, and this meant more
to her than his having given way to past temptations. The lesson he had learned at the ball
had had, too, its full effect. One he had never forgotten. Over and over again he had apologized
to her for his brutal insolence in laying his profane hands on her dancing-card and tearing
it to bits before her eyes. He had, moreover, deeply regretted the duel and had sworn to her
on his honor as a gentleman that he would never fight another.

Each time she had listened quietly and had told him how much she was pleased and how grateful
she was for his confidence and how such fine resolutions redounded to his credit, and yet in
thinking it over the next day she could not help comparing his meek outbursts of sorrow with
Harry's blunt statement made to her the last time she saw him in the park, when, instead of
expressing any regret for having shot Willits, he had boldly declared that he would do it again
if any such insult were repeated. And strange to say--and this she could not understand in
herself--in all such comparisons Harry came out best.

But:--and here she had to hold on to her rudder with all her might--she had already made one
mistake, tumbling head over heels in love with a young fellow who had mortified her before
the world when their engagement was less than a few months old, making her name and affections
a byword, and she could not and would not repeat the blunder. This had shattered her customary
self-reliance, leaving her wellnigh helpless. Perhaps after all--an unheard-of thing in her
experience--she had better seek advice of some older and wiser pilot. Two heads, or even three--(here
her canny Scotch blood asserted itself)--were better than one in deciding so important a matter
as the choosing of a mate for life. And yet--now she came to think it over--it was not so much
a question of heads as it was a question of shoulders on which the heads rested. To turn to
St. George, or to any member of the Willits kin, was impossible. Peggy's views she understood.
Counsel, however, she must have, and at once.

Suddenly an inspiration thrilled her like an electric shock--one that sent the blood tingling
to the very roots of her hair. Why had she not thought of it before! And it must be in the
most casual way--quite as a matter of general conversation, he doing all the talking and she
doing all the listening, for on no account must he suspect her purpose.

Within the hour she had tied the ribbons of her wide leghorn hat under her dimpled chin, picked
up her shawl, and started off alone, following the lane to the main road. If the judge, by
any chance, had adjourned court he would come straight home and she would meet him on the way.
If he was still engaged in the dispensation of justice, she would wait for him outside.

She had judged wisely. Indeed she might have waited for days for some such moment and not found
so favorable an opportunity. His Honor had already left the bench and was then slowly making
his way toward where she stood, hugging the sidewalk trees the better to shade him from the
increasing heat. As the day had promised to be an unusually warm one, he had attired himself
in a full suit of yellow nankeen, with palm-leaf fan and wide straw hat--a combination which
so matched the color and texture of his placid, kindly face that Kate could hardly keep from
laughing outright. Instead she quickened her steps until she stood beside him, her lovely,
fresh color heightened by her walk, her eyes sparkling, her face wreathed in smiles.

"You are lookin' mighty cute, my Lady Kate, in yo' Paisley shawl and sarsanet pelisse," he
called out in his hearty, cheery way. "Has Peggy seen 'em? I've been tryin' to get her some
just like 'em, only my co't duties are so pressin'. Goodness, gracious me!--but it's gettin'
hot!" Here he stopped and mopped his face, then his eyes fell upon her again: "Bless my soul,
child!--you do look pretty this mornin'--jest like yo' mother! Where did you get all those
pink and white apple-blossoms in yo' cheeks?"

"Do you remember her, Mr. Coston?" she rejoined, ignoring his compliment.

"Do I remember her! The belle of fo' counties, my dear--eve'ybody at her feet; five or six
gentlemen co'tin' her at once; old Captain Barkeley, cross as a bear--wouldn't let her marry
this one or that one--kep' her guessin' night and day, till one of 'em blew his brains out,
and then she fainted dead away. Pretty soon yo' father co'ted her, and bein' Scotch, like the
old captain and sober as an owl and about as cunnin', it wasn't long befo' everything was settled.
Very nice man, yo' father--got to have things mighty partic'lar; we young bucks used to say
he slept in a bag of lavender and powdered his cheeks every mornin' to make him look fresh,
while most of us were soakin' wet in the duck-blinds--but that was only our joke. That's long
befo' you were born, child. But yo' mother didn't live long--they said her heart was broken
'bout the other fellow, but there wasn't a word of truth in that foolishness--couldn't be.
I used to see her and yo' father together long after that, and she was mighty good to him,
and he was to her. Yes--all comes back to me. Stand still, child, and let me look at you--yes--you're
plumper than yo' mother and a good deal rosier, and you don't look so slender and white as
she did, like one of those pale Indian pipes she used to hunt in the woods. It's the Seymour
in you that's done that, I reckon."

Kate walked on in silence. It was not the first time that some of her mother's old friends
had told her practically the same story--not so clearly, perhaps, because few had the simple,
outspoken candor of the old fellow, but enough to let her know that her father was not her
mother's first love.

"Don't be in a hurry, child, and don't let anybody choose for you," he ran on. "Peggy and I
didn't make any mistakes--and don't you. Now this young son of Parker Willits's"--here his
wrinkled face tightened up into a pucker as if he had just bitten into an unripe persimmon--"good
enough young man, may be; goin' to be something great, I reckon--in Mr. Taney's office, I hear,
or will be next winter. I 'spect he'll keep out of jail--most Willitses do--but keep an eye
on him and watch him, and watch yo'self too. That's more important still. The cemetery is a
long ways off when you marry the wrong man, child. And that other fellow that Peggy tells me
has been co'tin' you--Talbot Rutter's boy--he's a wild one, isn't he?--drunk half the time
and fightin' everybody who don't agree with him. Come pretty nigh endin' young Willits, so
they say. Now I hear he's run away to sea and left all his debts behind. Talbot turned him
neck and heels out of doors when he found it out, so they tell me--and served the scapegrace
right. Don't be in a hurry, child. Right man will come bime-by. Just the same with Peggy till
I come along--there she is now, bless her sweet heart! Peggy, you darlin'--I got so lonely
for you I just had to 'journ co't. I've been telling Lady Kate that she mustn't be in a hurry
to get married till she finds somebody that will make her as happy as you and me." Here the
judge slipped his arm around Peggy's capacious waist and the two crossed the pasture as the
nearest way to the house.

Kate kept on her way alone.

Her only reply to the garrulous judge had been one of her rippling laughs, but it was the laughter
of bubbles with the sediment lying deep in the bottom of the glass.

CHAPTER XXI

But all outings must come to an end. And so when the marsh grass on the lowlands lay in serried
waves of dappled satin, and the corn on the uplands was waist high and the roses a mob of beauty,
Kate threw her arms around Peggy and kissed her over and over again, her whole heart flowing
through her lips; and then the judge got his good-by on his wrinkled cheek, and the children
on any clean spot which she found on their molasses-covered faces; and then the cavalcade took
up its line of march for the boat-landing, Willits going as far as the wharf, where he and
Kate had a long talk in low tones, in which he seemed to be doing all the talking and she all
the listening--"But nuthin' mo'n jes' a han'shake" (so Todd told St. George), "he lookin' like
he wanter eat her up an' she kinder sayin' dat de cake ain't brown 'nough yit fur tastin'--but
one thing I know fo' sho'--an' dat is she didn't let 'im kiss 'er. I wuz leadin' his horse
pas' whar dey wuz standin', an' de sorrel varmint got cuttin' up an' I kep' him prancin' till
Mister Willits couldn't stay wid her no longer. Drat dat red-haided--"

"Stop, Todd--be careful--you mustn't speak that way of Mr. Willits."

"Well, Marse George, I won't--but I ain't neber like him f'om de fust. He ain't quality an'
he neber kin be. How Miss Kate don' stan' him is mo'n I kin tell."

Kate drove up to her father's house in state, with Ben as special envoy to see that she and
her belongings were properly cared for. St. George with Todd and the four dogs--six in all--arrived,
despite Kate's protestations, on foot.

Pawson met him at the door. He had given up his boarding-house and had transferred his traps
and parcels to the floor above--into Harry's old room, really--in order that the additional
rent--(he had now taken entire charge of Temple's finances)--might help in the payment of the
interest on the mortgage. He had thought this all out while St. George was at Wesley and had
moved in without notifying him, that being the best way to solve the problem--St. George still
retaining his bedroom and dining-room and the use of the front door. Jemima, too, had gone.
She wanted, so she had told her master the day he left with Kate, to take a holiday and visit
some of her people who lived down by the Marsh Market in an old rookery near the Falls, and
would come back when he sent for her; but Todd had settled all that the morning of his arrival,
the moment he caught sight of her black face.

"Ain't no use yo' comin' back," the darky blurted out. "I'm gwineter do de cookin' and de chamber-wo'k.
Dere ain't 'nough to eat fo' mo'n two. When dem white-livered, no-count, onery gemmens dat
stole Marse George's money git in de chain-gang, whar dey b'longs, den may be we'll hab sumpin'
to go to market on, but dat ain't yit; an' don't ye tell Marse George I tol' yer or I'll ha'nt
ye like dat witch I done heared 'bout down to Wesley--ha'nt ye so ye'll think de debble's got
ye." To his master, his only explanation was that Jemima had gone to look after her sister,
who had been taken "wid a mis'ry in her back."

If St. George knew anything of the common talk going on around him no one was ever the wiser.
He continued the even tenor of his life, visiting and receiving his friends, entertaining his
friends in a simple and inexpensive way: Once Poe had spent an evening with him, when he made
a manly, straightforward apology for his conduct the night of the dinner, and on another occasion
Mr. Kennedy had made an especial point of missing a train to Washington to have an hour's chat
with him. In the afternoons he would have a rubber of whist with the archdeacon who lived across
the Square--a broad-minded ecclesiastic, who believed in relaxation, although, of course, he
was never seen at the club; or he might drop into the Chesapeake for a talk with Richard or
sit beside him in his curious laboratory at the rear of his house where he worked out many
of the problems that absorbed his mind and inspired his hopes. At night, however late or early--whenever
he reached home--there was always a romp with his dogs. This last he rarely omitted. The click
of the front-door latch, followed by his firm step overhead, was their signal, and up they
would come, tumbling over each other in their eagerness to reach his cheeks--straight up, their
paws scraping his clothes; then a swoop into the dining-room, when they would be "downed" to
the floor, their eyes following his every movement.

Nor had his own financial situation begun as yet to trouble him. Todd and Pawson, however,
had long since become nervous. More than once had they put their heads together for some plan
by which sufficient money could be raised for current expenses. In this praiseworthy effort,
to Todd's unbounded astonishment, Pawson had one night developed a plan in which the greatly
feared and much-despised Gadgem was to hold first place. Indeed on the very morning succeeding
the receipt of Pawson's letter and at an hour when St. George would be absent at the club,
there had come a brisk rat-a-tat on the front door and Gadgem had sidled in.

Todd had not seen the collector since that eventful morning when he stood by ready to pick
up the pieces of that gentleman's dismembered body when his master was about to throw him into
the street for doubting his word, and he now studied him with the greatest interest. The first
thing that struck him was the collector's clothes. As the summer was approaching he had changed
his winter suit for a combination of brown linen bound with black--(second hand, of course,
its former owner having gone out of mourning) and at the moment sported a moth-eaten, crape-encircled
white beaver with a floppy, two-inch brim, a rusty black stock that grabbed him close under
the chin, completely submerging his collar, and a pair of congress gaiters very much run down
at the heel. He was evidently master of himself and the situation, for he stood looking from
Todd to the young lawyer, a furtive, anxious expression on his face that betokened both a surprise
at being sent for and a curiosity to learn the cause, although no word of inquiry passed his lips.

Pawson's opening remark calmed the collector's suspicions.

"EXactly," he answered in a relieved tone, when the plot had been fully developed, dragging
a mate of the red bandanna--a blue one--from his pocket and blowing his nose in an impressive
manner. "EXactly--quite right--quite right--difficult perhaps--ENORmously difficult but--yes--quite
right."

Then there had followed a hurried consultation, during which the bullet-headed darky absorbed
every word, his eyes rolling about in his head, his breath ending somewhere near his jugular vein.

These details duly agreed upon, Gadgem bowed himself out of the dining-room, carrying with
him a note-book filled with such data as:

    2 fowling pieces made by Purdey, 1838.
    3 heavy duck guns.
    2 English saddles.
    1 silver loving cup.
    2 silver coasters, etc, etc.,

a list which Todd the night before had prompted and which Pawson, in his clear, round hand,
had transferred to a sheet of foolscap ready for Gadgem in the morning.

On reaching the front door the collector stopped and looked furtively up the stairs. He was
wondering with professional caution whether St. George had returned and was within hearing
distance. If so much as a hint should reach Temple's ears the whole scheme would come to naught.
Still in doubt, he called out in his sharpest business voice, as if prolonging a conversation
which had been carried on inside:

"Yes, Mr. Pawson, please say to Mr. Temple that it is GADgem, of GADgem & Coombs--and say that
I will be here at ten o'clock to-morrow--sharp--on the minute; I am ALways on the minute in
matters of this kind. Only five minutes of his time--five minutes, remember--" and he passed
out of hearing.

Todd, now duly installed as co-conspirator, opened the ball the next morning at breakfast.
St. George had slept late, and the hands of the marble clock marked but a few minutes of the
hour of Gadgem's expected arrival, and not a moment could be lost.

"Dat Gadgem man done come yere yisterday," he began, drawing out his master's chair with an
extra flourish to hide his nervousness, "an' he say he's commin' ag'in dis mornin' at ten o'clock.
Clar to goodness it's dat now! I done forgot to tell ye."

"What does he want, Todd?" asked St. George, dropping into his seat.

"I dunno, sah--said he was lookin' fo' sumpin' fo' a frien' ob his--I think it was a gun--an'
he wanted to know what kind to buy fur him--Yes, sah, dem waffles 's jes' off de fire. He 'lowed
he didn't know nuffin' 'bout guns--butter, sah?--an' den Mister Pawson spoke up an' said he'd
better ask you. He's tame dis time--leastways he 'peared so."

"A fine gun is rather a difficult thing to get in these days, Todd," replied St. George, opening
his napkin. "Since old Joe Manton died I don't know but one good maker--and that's Purdey,
of London, and he, I hear, has orders to last him five years. No, Todd--I'd rather have the toast."

"Yes, sah--I knowed ye couldn't do nuffln' fur him--Take de top piece--dat's de brownest--but
he seemed so cut up 'bout it dat I tol' him he might see ye fur a minute if he come 'long 'bout
ten o'clock, when you was fru' yo' bre'kfus', 'fo' ye got tangled up wid yo' letters an' de
papers. Dat's him now, I spec's. Shall I show him in?"

"Yes, show him in, Todd. Gadgem isn't a bad sort of fellow after all. He only wants his pound
of flesh, like the others. Ah, good-morning, Mr. Gadgem." The front door had been purposely
left open, and though the bill collector had knocked by way of warning, he had paused for no
answer and was already in the room. The little man laid his battered hat silently on a chair
near the door, pulled down his tight linen sleeves with the funereal binding, adjusted his
high black stock, and with half-creeping, half-cringing movement, advanced to where St. George sat.

"I said good-morning, Mr. Gadgem," repeated St. George in his most captivating tone of voice.
He had been greatly amused at Gadgem's antics.

"I heard you, sir--I heard you DIStinctly, sir--I was only seeking a place on which to rest
my hat, sir--not a very inSPIRing hat-quite the contrary--but all I have. Yes, sir--you are
quite right--it is a VERY good morning--a most deLIGHTful morning. I was convinced of that
when I crossed the park, sir. The trees--"

"Never mind the trees, Gadgem. We will take those up later on. Tell me what I can do for you--what
do you want?"

"A GUN, sir--a plain, straightforward GUN--one that can be relied upon. Not for mySELF, sir--I
am not murderously inclined--but for a friend who has commissioned me--the exact word, sir--although
the percentage is small--comMISsioned me to acquire for him a fowling piece of the pattern,
weight, and build of those belonging to St. George W. Temple, Esquire, of Kennedy Square-and
so I made bold, sir, to--"

"You won't find it, Gadgem," replied St. George, buttering the toast. "I have two that I have
shot with for years that haven't their match in the State. Todd, bring me one of those small
bird guns--there, behind the door in the rack. Hand it to Mr. Gadgem. Now, can you see by the
shape of--take hold of it, man. But do you know anything about guns?"

"Only enough to keep away from their muzzles, sir." He had it in his hand now--holding it by
the end of the barrel, Todd instinctively dodging out of the way, although he knew it was not
loaded. "No, sir, I don't know anything--not the very SMALLest thing about guns. There is nothing,
in fact, I know so little about as a gun--that is why I have come to you."

St. George recovered the piece and laid it as gently on the table beside his plate as if it
had been a newly laid egg.

"No, I don't think you do," he laughed, "or you wouldn't hold it upside down. Now go on and
give me the rest."

Gadgem emitted a chuckle--the nearest he ever came to a laugh: "To have it go ON, sir, is infinitely
preferable than to have it go OFF, sir. He-he! And you have, I believe you said, two of these
highly valuable implements of death?"

"Yes, five altogether--two of this kind. Here, Todd"--and he picked up the gun--"put it back
behind the door."

Gadgem felt in his inside pocket, produced and consulted a memorandum with the air of a man
who wanted to be entirely sure, and in a bland voice said:

"I should think at your time of life--if you will permit me, sir--that one less gun would not
seriously inconvenience you. Would you permit me, sir, to hope that--"

St. George looked up from his plate and a peculiar expression flitted across his face.

"You mean you want to buy it?"

The bill collector made a little movement forward and scrutinized St. George's face with the
eye of a hawk. For a man of Temple's kidney to be without a fowling piece was like a king being
without a crown. This was the crucial moment. Gadgem knew Temple's class, and knew just how
delicately he must be handled. If St. George's pride, or his love for his favorite chattels--things
personal to himself--should overcome him, the whole scheme would fall to the ground. That any
gentleman of his standing had ever seen the inside of a pawn-shop in his life was unthinkable.
This was what Gadgem faced. As for Todd, he had not drawn a full breath since Gadgem opened
his case.

"Not EXactly buy it, sir," purred Gadgem, twisting his body into an obsequious spiral. "Men
of your position do not traffic in such things--but if you would be persuaded, sir, for a money
consideration which you would fix yourself--say the ORIGinal cost of the gun--to spare one
of your five--you would greatly delight--in fact, you would overWHELM with gratitude--a friend
of mine."

St. George hesitated, looked out of the window and a brand-new thought forced its way into
his mind--as if a closet had been suddenly opened, revealing a skeleton he had either forgotten
or had put permanently out of sight. There WAS need of this "original cost"--instant need--something
he had entirely forgotten. Jemima would soon need it--perhaps needed it at that very minute.
He had, it was true, often kept her waiting: but that was when he could pay at his pleasure;
now, perhaps, he couldn't pay at all.

"All right, Gadgem," he said slowly, a far-away, thoughtful look on his face--"come to think
of it I don't need two guns of this calibre, and I am quite willing to let this one go, if
it will oblige your friend." Here Todd breathed a sigh of relief so loud and deep that his
master turned his head in inquiry. "As to the price--I'll look that up. Come and see me again
in a day or two. Better take the gun with you now."

The fight had been won, but the risk had been great. Even Pawson could hardly believe his ears
when Gadgem, five minutes later, related the outcome of the interview.

"Well, then, it will be plain sailing so long as the rest of the things last," said Pawson,
handling the piece with a covetous touch. He too liked a day off when he could get it. "Who
will you sell the gun to, Gadgem?"

"God knows--I don't! I'll borrow the money on it somehow--but I can't see him suffer--no, sir--can't
see him SUFfer. It's a pleasure to serve him--real gentleman--REAL--do you hear, Pawson? No
veneer--no sham--no lies! Damn few such men, I tell you. Never met one before-never will meet
one again. Gave up everything he had for a rattle-brain young scamp--BEGgared himself to pay
his debts--not a drop of the fellow's blood in his veins either--incredible--inCREDible! Got
to handle him like gunpowder or he'll blow everything into matchsticks. Find out the price
and I'll bring the money to-morrow. Do you pay it to him; I can't. I'd feel too damn mean after
lying to him the way I have. Feel that way now. Good-day."

The same scene was practically repeated the following month. It was an English saddle this
time, St. George having two. And it was the same unknown gentleman who figured as "the much-obliged
friend," Pawson conducting the negotiations and securing the owner's consent. On this occasion
Gadgem sold the saddle outright to the keeper of a livery stable, whose bills he collected,
paying the difference between the asking and the selling price out of his own pocket.

Gradually, however, St. George awoke to certain unsuspected features of what was going on around
him. The discovery was made one morning when the go-between was closeted in Pawson's lower
office, Pawson conducting the negotiations in St. George's dining-room. The young attorney,
with Gadgem's assistance, had staved off some accounts until a legal ultimatum had been reached,
and, having but few resources of his own left, had, with Todd's help, decided that the silver
loving-cup presented to his client's father by the Marquis de Castullux could alone save the
situation--a decision which brought an emphatic refusal from the owner. This and the discovery
of Pawson's and Gadgem's treachery had greatly incensed him.

"And you tell me, Pawson, that that scoundrel, Gadgem, has--Todd go down and bring him up here
immediately--has had the audacity to run a pawnshop for my benefit without so much as asking
my leave?--peddling my things?--lying to me straight through?" Here the door opened and Gadgem's
face peered in. He had, as was his custom, crept upstairs so as to be within instant call when
wanted.

"Yes--I am speaking of you, sir. Come inside and shut that door behind you. You too, Todd.
What the devil do you mean, Gadgem, by deceiving me in this way? Don't you know I would rather
have starved to death than--"

Gadgem raised his hand in protest:

"EXactly so, sir. That's what we were afraid of, sir--such an uncomfortable thing to starve
to death, sir--I couldn't permit it, sir--I'd rather walk my feet off than permit it. I did
walk them off--"

"But who asked you to tramp the streets with my things uuder your arm? And you lied to me about
it--you said you wanted to oblige a friend. There wasn't a word of truth in it, and you know it."

Again Gadgem's hand went out with a pleading "Please-don't" gesture. "Less than a word, sir--a
whole dictionary, less, sir, and UNabridged at that, if I might be permitted to say it. My
friend still has the implement of death, and not only does he still possess it, but he is ENORmously
obliged. Indeed, I have never SEEN him so happy."

"You mean to tell me, Gadgem," St. George burst out, "that the money you paid me for the gun
really came from a friend of yours?"

"I do, sir." Gadgem's gimlet eye was worming itself into Temple's.

"What's his name?"

"Gadgem, sir--John Gadgem, of Gadgem & Coombs--Gadgem sole survivor, since Coombs is with the
angels; the foreclosure having taken place last month: hence these weeds." And he lifted the
tails of his black coat in evidence.

"Out of your own money?"

"Yes, sir--some I had laid away."

St. George wheeled suddenly and stood looking first at Gadgem, then at Pawson, and last at
Todd, as if for confirmation. Then a light broke in upon him--one that played over his face
in uncertain flashes.

"And you did this for me?" he asked thoughtfully, fixing his gaze on Gadgem.

"I did, sir," came the answer in a meek voice, as if he had been detected in filching an apple
from a stand; "and I would do it again--do it over and over again. And it has been a great
pleasure for me to do it. I might say, sir, that it has been a kind of exTREME bliss to do it."

"Why?" There was a tremor now in Temple's voice that even Todd had never noticed before.

Gadgem turned his head away. "I don't know, sir," he replied in a lower tone. "I couldn't explain
it on oath; I don't care to explain it, sir." No lie could serve him now--better make a clean
breast of the villany.

"And you still own the gun?" Todd had never seen his master so gentle before--not under a provocation
such as this.

"I do, sir." Gadgem's voice was barely audible.

"Then it means that you have locked up just that much of your own money for a thing you can
never use yourself and can't sell. Am I right?"

Gadgem lowered his head and for a moment studied the carpet. His activities, now that the cat
was out of the bag, were fair subjects for discussion, but not his charities.

"I prefer not to answer, sir, and--" the last words died in his throat.

"But it's true, isn't it?" persisted St. George. He had never once taken his eyes from Gadgem.

"Yes, it's true."

St. George turned on his heel, walked to the mantel, stood for an instant gazing into the empty
fireplace, and then, with that same straightening of his shoulders and lift of his head which
his friends knew so well when he was deeply stirred, confronted the collector again:

"Gadgem!" He stopped and caught his breath. For a moment it seemed as if something in his throat
choked his utterance. "Gadgem--give me your hand! Do you know you are a gentleman and a thoroughbred!
No--don't speak--don't explain. We understand each other. Todd, bring three glasses and hand
me what is left of the old Port. And do you join us, Pawson."

Todd, whose eyes had been popping from his head during the entire interview, and who was still
amazed at the outcome, suddenly woke to the dangers of the situation: on no account must his
master's straits be further revealed. He raised his hand as a signal to St. George, who was
still looking into Gadgem's eyes, screwed his face into a tangle of puckers and in a husky
whisper muttered, so low that only his master could hear:

"Dat Port, Marse George"--one eye now went entirely out in a wink--"is gittin' a leetle mite
low" (there hadn't been a drop of it in the house for six months) "an' if--"

"Well, then, that old Brown Sherry--get a fresh bottle, Todd--" St. George was quite honest,
and so, for that matter, was Todd: the Brown Sherry had also seen its day.

"Yes, sah--but how would dat fine ol' peach brandy de jedge gin ye do? It's sp'ilin' to be
tasted, sah." Both eyes were now in eclipse in the effort to apprise his master that with the
exception of some badly corked Madeira, Tom Coston's peach brandy was about the only beverage
left in the cellar.

"Well, the old peach brandy, then--get it at once and serve it in the large glasses."

CHAPTER XXII

St. George had now reached the last stage of his poverty. The selling or pawning of the few
valuables left him had been consummated and with the greatest delicacy, so as best to spare
his feelings. That he had been assisted by hitherto unknown friends who had sacrificed their
own balances in his behalf, added temporarily to his comforts but did not lessen the gravity
of the present situation. The fact remained that with the exception of a few possible assets
he was practically penniless. Every old debt that could be collected--and Gadgem had been a
scourge and a flaming sword as the weeks went on in their gathering--had been rounded up. Even
his minor interests in two small ground rents had, thanks to Pawson, been cashed some years
in advance. His available resources were now represented by some guns, old books, bridles,
another saddle, his rare Chinese punch-bowl and its teakwood stand, and a few remaining odds
and ends.

He could hope for no payment from the Patapsco--certainly not for some years; nor could he
raise money even on these hopes, the general opinion being that despite the efforts of John
Gorsuch, Rutter, and Harding to punish the guilty and resuscitate the innocent, the bank would
finally collapse without a cent being paid the depositors. As for that old family suit, it
had been in the courts for forty-odd years and it was likely to be there forty-odd years more
before a penny would be realized from the settlement.

Had he been differently constructed--he a man with scores and scores of friends, many of whom
would gladly have helped him--he might have made his wants known; but such was not his make-up.
The men to whom he could apply--men like Horn, the archdeacon, Murdoch, and one or two others--had
no money of their own to spare, and as for wealthier men--men like Rutter and Harding--starvation
itself would be preferable to an indebtedness of that kind. Then again, he did not want his
poverty known. He had defied Talbot Rutter, and had practically shown him the door when the
colonel doubted his ability to pay Harry's debts and still live, and no humiliation would be
greater than to see Rutter's satisfaction over his abject surrender. No--if the worst came
to the worst, he would slip back to Wesley, where he was always welcome and take up the practice
of the law, which he had abandoned since his father's death, and thus earn money enough not
to be a burden to Peggy. In the meantime something might turn up. Perhaps another of Gadgem's
thumb-screws could be fastened on some delinquent and thus extort a drop or two; or the bank
might begin paying ten per cent.; or another prepayment might be squeezed out of a ground rent.
If none of these things turned out to his advantage, then Gadgem and Pawson must continue their
search for customers who would have the rare opportunity of purchasing, direct "from the private
collection of a gentleman," etc., etc., "one first-class English saddle," etc., etc.

"The meantime," however, brought no relief. Indeed so acute had the financial strain become
that another and a greater sacrifice--one that fairly cut his heart in two--faced him--the
parting with his dogs. That four mouths besides his own and Todd's were too many to feed had
of late become painfully evident. He might send them to Wesley of course, but then he remembered
that no one at Tom Coston's ever had a gun in their hands, and they would only be a charge
and a nuisance to Peggy. Or he might send them up into Carroll County to a farmer friend, but
in that case he would have to pay their keep, and he needed the money for those at home. And
so he waited and pondered.

A coachman from across the park solved the difficulty a day or two later with a whispered word
in Todd's ear, which set the boy's temper ablaze--for he dearly loved the dogs himself--until
he had talked it over with Pawson and Gadgem, and had then broken the news to his master as
best he could.

"Dem dogs is eatin' dere haids off," he began, fidgeting about the table, brushing the crumbs
on to a tray only to spill half of them on the floor--"an' Mister Floyd's coachman done say
dat his young marster's jes' a-dyin' for 'em an' don't cyar what he pay for 'em, dat is if
ye--" but St. George cut him short.

"What did you say, Todd?"

"Why dat young marster dat's jes' come up f'om Ann'rundel--got mo' money den he kin th'ow 'way
I yere."

"And they are eating their heads off, are they?--and he wants to swap his dirty money for my--Yes--I
know. They think they can buy anything with a banknote. And its Floe and Dandy and Sue and
Rupert, is it? And I'm to sell them--I who have slept with them and ate with them and hugged
them a thousand times. Of course they eat their heads off. Yes--don't say another word. Send
them up one at a time--Floe first!"

The scene that followed always lingered in his mind. For days thereafter he could not mention
their name, even to Todd, without the tears springing to his eyes.

Up the kitchen flight they tumbled--not one at a time, but all in a scramble, bounding straight
at him, slobbering all over his face and hands, their paws scraping his clothes--each trying
to climb into his lap--big Gordon setters, all four. He swept them off and ranged them in a
row before his arm-chair with their noses flat to the carpet, their brown agate eyes following
his every movement.

"Todd says you eat too much, you damned rascals!" he cried in enforced gayety, leaning forward,
shaking his finger in their faces. "What the devil do you mean, coming into a gentleman's private
apartments and eating him out of house and home!--and that's what you're doing. I'm going to
sell you!--do you hear that?--sell you to some stingy curmudgeon who'll starve you to death,
and that's what you deserve!... Come here, Floe--you dear old doggie, you--nice Floe!... Here,
Dandy--Rupert--Sue!" They were all in his arms, their cold noses snuggled under his warm chin.
But this time he didn't care what they did to his clothes--nor what he did to them. He was
alone; Todd had gone down to the kitchen--only he and the four companions so dear to his heart.
"Come here, you imp of the devil," he continued, rubbing Floe's ears--he loved her best--pinching
her nose until her teeth showed; patting her flanks, crooning over her as a woman would over
a child, talking to himself all the time. "I wonder if Floyd will be good to them! If I thought
he wouldn't I'd rather starve than--No--I reckon it's all right--he's got plenty of room and
plenty of people to look after them." Then he rose from his chair and drew his hand across
his forehead. "Got to sell my dogs, eh? Turned traitor, have you, Mr. Temple, and gone back
on your best friends? By God! I wonder what will come next?" He strode across the room, rang
for Todd, and bending down loosened a collar from Dandy's neck, on which his own name was engraved,
"St. George Wilmot Temple, Esquire." "Esquire, eh?" he muttered, reading the plate. "What a
damned lie! Property of a pauper living on pawnshops and a bill collector! Nice piece of business,
St. George--fine record for your blood and breeding! Ah, Todd--that you? Well, take them downstairs
and send word to Mr. Floyd's man to call for them to-night, and when you come back I'll have
a letter ready for you. Come here, you rascals, and let me hug one or two of you. Good Floe--good
doggie." Then the long-fought choke in his throat strangled him. "Take them away, Todd," he
said in a husky voice, straightening his shoulders as if the better to get his breath, and
with a deep indrawn sigh walked slowly into his bedroom and shut the door behind him.

Half an hour later there followed a short note, written on one of his few remaining sheets
of English paper, addressed to the new owner, in which he informed that gentleman that he bespoke
for his late companions the same care and attention which he had always given them himself,
and which they so richly deserved, and which he felt sure they would continue to receive while
in the service of his esteemed and honored correspondent. This he sealed in wax and stamped
with his crest; and this was duly delivered by Todd--and so the painful incident had come to
an end.

The dogs disposed of, there still remained to him another issue to meet--the wages he owed
Jemima. Although she had not allowed the subject to pass her lips--not even to Todd--St. George
knew that she needed the money--she being a free woman and her earnings her own--not a master's.
He had twice before determined to set aside enough money from former cash receipts to liquidate
Jemima's debt--once from the proceeds of Gadgem's gun and again from what Floyd paid him for
the dogs--but Todd had insisted with such vehemence that he needed it for the marketing, that
he had let it go over.

The one remaining object of real value was the famous loving-cup. With this turned into money
he would be able to pay Jemima in full. For days he debated the matter with himself, putting
the question in a dozen different lights: it was not really HIS cup, but belonged to the family,
he being only its custodian; it would reflect on his personal honor if he traded so distinguished
a gift--one marking the esteem in which his dead father had been held, etc. Then the round,
good-natured face and bent figure of his old stand-by and comfort--who had worked for him and
for his father almost all her life--rose before him, she bending over her tubs earning the
bread to keep her alive, and with this picture in his mind all his fine-spun theories vanished
into thin air. Todd was summoned and thus the last connecting link between the past and present
was broken and the precious heirloom turned over to Kirk, the silversmith, who the next day
found a purchaser with one of the French secretaries in Washington, a descendant of the marquis.

With the whole of the purchase money in his hands and his mind firmly made up he rang for his
servant:

"Come along, Todd--show me where Aunt Jemima lives--it's somewhere down by the market, I hear--I'm
going now."

The darky's face got as near white as his skin would allow: this was the last thing he had
expected.

"Dat ain't no fit place for ye, Marse George," he stammered. "I'll go an' git her an' bring
her up; she tol' me when I carried dat las' washin' down she wuz a-comin' dis week."

"No, her sister is sick and she is needed where she is. Get your basket and come along--you
can do your marketing down there. Bring me my hat and cane. What's the matter with her sister,
do you know?"

Again the darky hedged: "Dunno, sah--some kin' o' mis'ry in her back I reckon. Las' time Aunt
Jemima was yere she say de doctor 'lowed her kittens was 'fected." (It was another invalid
limping past the front steps who had put that in his head.)

St. George roared: "Well, whatever she's got, I'm going to pay my respects to her; I've neglected
Aunt Jemima too long. No--my best hat--don't forget that I'm going to call on a very distinguished
colored lady. Come, out with it. How far does she live from the market?"

"Jes' 'bout's far's from yere to de church. Is you gwine now? I got a heap o' cleanin' ter
do--dem steps is all gormed up, dey's dat dirty. Maybe we better go when--"

"Not another word out of you! I'm going now." He could feel the money in his pocket and he
could not wait. "Get your basket."

Todd led the way and the two crossed the park and struck out for the lower part of the city,
near Jones Falls, into a district surrounded by one-and two-story houses inhabited by the poorer
class of whites and the more well-to-do free negroes. Here the streets, especially those which
ran to the wharves, were narrow and ill-paved, their rough cobbles being often obstructed by
idle drays, heavy anchors, and rusting anchor-chains, all on free storage. Up one of these
crooked streets, screened from the brick sidewalk by a measly wooden fence, stood a two-story
wooden house, its front yard decorated with clothes-lines running criss-cross from thumbs of
fence-posts to fingers of shutters--a sort of cat's-cradle along whose meshes Aunt Jemima hung
her wet clothes.

On this particular day what was left of St. George Temple's wardrobe and bed linen, with the
exception of what that gentleman had on his back, was either waving in the cool air of the
morning or being clothes-pinned so that it might wave later on.

Todd's anxious face was the first to thrust itself from around the corner of a sagging, sloppy
sheet. The two had entered the gate in the fence at the same moment, but St. George had been
lost in the maze of dripping linen.

"Go'way f'om dar, you fool nigger, mussin' up my wash! Keep yo' black haid off'er dem sheets,
I tell ye, 'fo' I smack ye! An' ye needn't come down yere a-sassin' me 'bout Marse George's
clo'es, 'cause dey ain't done--" (here Temple's head came into view, his face in a broad smile).
"Well, fer de lan's sakes, Marse George. What ye come down yere fer? Here--lemme git dat basket
outer yo' way--No, dem hands ain't fit fer nobody to shake--My!--but I's mighty glad ter see
ye! Don't tell me ye come fer dat wash--I been so pestered wid de weather--nothin' don't dry."

He had dodged a wet sheet and had the old woman by the hand now, her face in a broad grin at
sight of him.

"No, aunty--I came down to pay you some money."

"You don't owe me no money--leastwise you don't owe me nothin' till ye kin pay it," and she
darted an annihilating glance at Todd.

"Yes, I do--but let me see where you live. What a fine place--plenty of room except on wash-days.
All those mine?--I didn't know I had that many clothes left. Pick up that basket, Todd, and
bring it in for aunty." The two made their way between the wet linen and found themselves in
front of the dwelling. "And is this all yours?"

"De fust flo' front an 'back is mine an' de top flo' I rents out. Got a white man in dere now
dat works in de lumber yard. Jes' come up an' see how I fixed it up."

"And tell me about your sister--is she better?" he continued.

The old woman put her arms akimbo: "Lawd bress ye, Marse George!--who done tol' ye dat fool
lie! I ain't got no sister--not yere!"

"Why, I thought you couldn't come back to me because you had to nurse some member of your family
who had kittens, or some such misery in her spine--wasn't that it, Todd?" said St. George trying
to conceal a smile.

Todd shot a beseeching look at Jemima to confirm his picturesque yarn, but the old woman would
have none of it.

"Dere ain't been nobody to tek care ob but des me. I come yere 'cause I knowed ye didn't hab
no money to keep me, an' I got back de ol' furniture what I had fo' I come to lib wid ye, an'
went to washin', an' if dat yaller skunk's been tellin' any lies 'bout me I'm gwineter wring
his neck."

"No, let Todd alone," laughed St. George, his heart warming to the old woman at this further
proof of her love for him. "The Lord has already forgiven him that lie, and so have I. And
now what have you got upstairs?"

They had mounted the steps by this time and St. George was peering into a clean, simply furnished
room. "First rate, aunty--your lumber-yard man is in luck. And now put that in your pocket,"
and he handed her the package.

"What's dis?"

"Nearly half a year's wages."

"I ain't gwineter take it," she snapped back in a positive tone.

St. George laid his hand tenderly on the old woman's shoulder. She had served him faithfully
for many years and he was very fond of her.

"Tuck it in your bosom, aunty--it should have been paid long ago."

She looked at him shrewdly: "Did de bank pay ye yit, Marse George?"

No

"Den I ain't gwineter tech it--I ain't gwineter tech a fip ob it!" she exploded. "How I know
ye ain't a-sufferin' fer it! See dat wash?--an' I got anudder room to rent if I'm min' ter
scrunch up a leetle mo'. I kin git 'long."

St. George's hand again tightened on her shoulder.

"Take it when you can get it, aunty," he said in a more serious tone, and turning on his heel
joined Todd below, leaving the old woman in tears at the top of the stairs, the money on her
limp outspread fingers.

All the way back to his home--they had stopped to replenish the larder at the market--St. George
kept up his spirits. Absurd as it was--he a man tottering on the brink of dire poverty--the
situation from his stand-point was far from perilous. He had discharged the one debt that had
caused him the most anxiety--the money due the faithful old cook; he had a basketful of good
things--among them half a dozen quail and three diamond-back terrapin--the cheapest food in
the market--and he had funds left for his immediate wants.

With this feeling of contentment permeating his mind something of the old feeling of independence,
with its indifference toward the dollar and what it meant and could bring him, welled up in
his heart. For a time at least the spectre of debt lay hidden. A certain old-time happiness
began to show itself in his face and bearing. So evident was this that before many days had
passed even Todd noticed the return of his old buoyancy, and so felt privileged to discuss
his own feelings, now that the secret of their mode of earning a common livelihood was no longer
a bugbear to his master.

"Dem taters what we got outer de extry sterrups of dat ridin'-saddle is mos' gone," he ventured
one morning at breakfast, when the remains of the cup money had reached a low ebb. "Shall I
tote de udder saddle down to dat Gadgem man"--(he never called him anything else, although
of late he had conceived a marked respect for the collector)--"or shall I keep it fer some
mo' sugar?"

"What else is short, Todd?" said St. George, good-naturedly, helping himself to another piece
of corn bread.

"Well, dere's plenty ob dose decanter crackers and de pair ob andirons is still holdin' out
wid de mango pickles an' de cheese, but dat pair ob ridin'-boots is mos' gone. We got half
barrel ob flour an' a bag o' coffee, ye 'member, wid dem boots. I done seen some smoked herrin'
in de market yisterday mawnin' 'd go mighty good wid de buckwheat cakes an' sugar-house 'lasses--only
we ain't got no 'lasses. I was a-thinkin' dem two ol' cheers in de garret 'd come in handy;
ain't nobody sot in em since I been yere; de bottoms is outen one o' dem, but de legs an' backs
is good 'nough fer a quart o' 'lasses. I kin take 'em down to de same place dat Gadgem man
tol' me to take de big brass shovel an' tongs--"

"All right, Todd," rejoined St. George, highly amused at the boy's economic resources. "Anything
that Mr. Gadgem recommends I agree to. Yes--take him the chairs--both of them."

Even the men at the club had noticed the change and congratulated him on his good spirits.
None of them knew of his desperate straits, although many of them had remarked on the differences
in his hospitality, while some of the younger gallants--men who made a study of the height
and roll of the collars of their coats and the latest cut of waistcoats--especially the increased
width of the frogs on the lapels--had whispered to each other that Temple's clothes certainly
needed overhauling; more particularly his shirts, which were much the worse for wear: one critic
laying the seeming indifference to the carelessness of a man who was growing old; another shaking
his head with the remark that it was Poole's bill which was growing old--older by a good deal
than the clothes, and that it would have to be patched and darned with one of old George Brown's
(the banker's) scraps of paper before the wearer could regain his reputation of being the best-dressed
man in or out of the club.

None of these lapses from his former well-to-do estate made any difference, however, to St.
George's intimates when it came to the selection of important guests for places at table or
to assist in the success of some unusual function. Almost every one in and around Kennedy Square
had been crippled in their finances by the failure, not only of the Patapsco, but by kindred
institutions, during the preceding few years. Why, then, they argued, should any one criticise
such economies as Temple was practising? He was still living in his house with his servants--one
or two less, perhaps--but still in comfort, and if he did not entertain as heretofore, what
of it? His old love of sport, as was shown by his frequent visits to his estates on the Eastern
Shore, might account for some of the changes in his hospitable habits, there not being money
enough to keep up establishments both in country and town. These changes, of course, could
only be temporary. His properties on the peninsula--(almost everybody had "properties" in those
days, whether imaginary or real)--would come up some day, and then all would be well again.

The House of Seymour was particularly in the dark. The Honorable Prim, in his dense ignorance,
had even asked St. George to join in one of his commercial enterprises--the building of a new
clipper ship--while Kate, who had never waited five minutes in all her life for anything that
a dollar could buy, had begged a subscription for a charity she was managing, and which she
received with a kiss and a laugh, and without a moment's hesitation, from a purse shrinking
steadily by the hour.

Only when some idle jest or well-meant inquiry diverted his mind to the chain of events leading
up to Harry's exile was his insistent cheerfulness under his fast accumulating misfortunes
ever checked.

Todd was the cruel disturber on this particular day, with a bit of information which, by reason
of its source, St. George judged must be true, and which because of its import brought him
infinite pain.

"Purty soon we won't hab 'nough spoons to stir a toddy wid," Todd had begun. "I tell ye, Marse
George, dey ain't none o' dem gwine down in dere pockets till de constable gits 'em. I jes'
wish Marse Harry was yere--he'd fix 'em. 'Fo' dey knowed whar dey wuz he'd hab 'em full o'
holes. Dat red-haided, no-count gemman what's a-makin up to Miss Kate is gwineter git her fo'
sho--"

It was here that St. George had raised his head, his heart in his mouth.

"How do you know, Todd?" he asked in a serious tone. He had long since ceased correcting Todd
for his oustpoken reflections on Kate's suitor as a useless expenditure of time.

"'Cause Mammy Henny done tol' Aunt Jemima so--an' she purty nigh cried her eyes out when she
said it. Ye ain't heared nothin' 'bout Marse Harry comin' home, is ye?"

"No--not a word--not for many months, Todd. He's up in the mountains, so his mother tells me."

Whereupon Todd had gulped down an imprecation expressive of his feelings and had gone about
his duties, while St. George had buried himself in his easy-chair, his eyes fixed on vacancy,
his soul all the more a-hungered for the boy he loved. He wondered where the lad was--why he
hadn't written. Whether the fever had overtaken him and he laid up in some filthy hospital.
Almost every week his mother had either come herself or sent in for news, accompanied by messages
expressing some new phase of her anxiety. Or had he grown and broadened out and become big
and strong?--whom had he met, and how had they treated him?--and would he want to leave home
again when once he came back? Then, as always, there came a feeling of intense relief. He thanked
God that Harry WASN'T at home; a daily witness of the shrinkage of his resources and the shifts
to which he was being put. This would be ten times worse for him to bear than the loss of the
boy's companionship. Harry would then upbraid him for the sacrifices he had made for him, as
if he would not take every step over again! Take them!--of course he would take them!--so would
any other gentleman. Not to have come to Harry's rescue in that the most critical hour of his
life, when he was disowned by his father, rejected by his sweetheart, and hounded by creditors,
not one of whom did he justly owe, was unthinkable, absolutely unthinkable, and not worth a
moment's consideration.

And so he would sit and muse, his head in his hand, his well-rounded legs stretched toward
the fire, his white, shapely fingers tapping the arms of his chair--each click so many telegraphic
records of the workings of his mind.

CHAPTER XXIII

With the closing in of the autumn and the coming of the first winter cold, the denizens of
Kennedy Square gave themselves over to the season's entertainments. Mrs. Cheston, as was her
usual custom, issued invitations for a ball--this one in honor of the officers who had distinguished
themselves in the Mexican War. Major Clayton, Bowdoin, the Murdochs, Stirlings, and Howards--all
persons of the highest quality--inaugurated a series of chess tournaments, the several players
and those who came to look on to be thereafter comforted with such toothsome solids as wild
turkey, terrapin, and olio, and such delectable liquids as were stored in the cellars of their
hosts. Old Judge Pancoast, yielding to the general demand, gave an oyster roast--his enormous
kitchen being the place of all others for such a function. On this occasion two long wooden
tables were scoured to an unprecedented whiteness--the young girls in white aprons and the
young men in white jackets serving as waiters--and laid with wooden plates, and two big wooden
bowls--one for the hot, sizzling shells just off their bed of hickory coals banked on the kitchen
hearth, and the other for the empty ones--the fun continuing until the wee sma' hours of the
morning.

The Honorable Prim and his charming daughter, not to be outdone by their neighbors, cleared
the front drawing-room of its heavy furniture, covered every inch of the tufted carpet with
linen crash, and with old black Jones as fiddler and M. Robinette--a French exile--as instructor
in the cutting of pigeon wings and the proper turning out of ankles and toes, opened the first
of a series of morning soirees for the young folk of the neighborhood, to which were invited
not only their mothers, but their black mammies as well.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Horn, not having any blithesome daughter, nor any full-grown son--Oliver
being but a child of six--and Richard and his charming wife having long since given up their
dancing-slippers--were good enough to announce--(and it was astonishing what an excitement
it raised)--that "On the Monday night following Mr. Horn would read aloud, to such of his friends
as would do him the honor of being present, the latest Christmas story by Mr. Charles Dickens,
entitled 'The Cricket on the Hearth.'" For this occasion Mr. Kennedy had loaned him his own
copy, one of the earliest bound volumes, bearing on its fly-leaf an inscription in the great
master's own handwriting in which he thanked the distinguished author of "Swallow Barn" for
the many kindnesses he had shown him during his visit to America, and begged his indulgence
for his third attempt to express between covers the sentiment and feeling of the Christmas season.

Not that this was an unusual form of entertainment, nor one that excited special comment. Almost
every neighborhood had its morning (and often its evening) "Readings," presided over by some
one who read well and without fatigue--some sweet old maid, perhaps, who knew how to grow old
gracefully. At these times a table would be rolled into the library by the deferential servant
of the house, on which he would place the dear lady's spectacles and a book, its ivory marker
showing where the last reading had ended--it might be Prescott's "Ferdinand and Isabella,"
or Irving's "Granada," or Thackeray's "Vanity Fair," or perhaps, Dickens's "Martin Chuzzlewit."

At eleven o'clock the girls would begin to arrive, each one bringing her needle-work of some
kind--worsted, or embroidery, or knitting--something she could manage without discomfort to
herself or anybody about her, and when the last young lady was in her seat, the same noiseless
darky would tiptoe in and take his place behind the old maid's chair. Then he would slip a
stool under her absurdly small slippers and tiptoe out again, shutting the door behind him
as quietly as if he found the dear lady asleep--and so the reading would begin.

A reading by Richard, however, was always an event of unusual importance, and an invitation
to be present was never declined whether received by letter or by word of mouth.

St. George had been looking forward eagerly to the night, and when the shadows began to fall
in his now almost bare bedroom, he sent for Todd to help him dress.

"Have you got a shirt for me, Todd?"

"Got seben oh 'em. Dey wants a li'l' trimmin' roun' de aidges, but I reckon we kin make 'em
do--Aunt Jemima sont 'em home dis mawnin'. She's been a-workin' on 'em, she says. Looks ter
me like a goat had a moufful outer dis yere sleeve, but I dassent tell er so. Lot o' dem butters
wanderin' roun' dat Marsh market lookin' fer sumpin' to eat; lemme gib dem boots anudder tech."

Todd skipped downstairs with the boots and St. George continued dressing; selecting his best
and most becoming scarf; pinning down the lapels of his buff waistcoat; scissoring the points
of his high collar, and with Todd's assistance working his arms between the slits in the silk
lining of the sleeves of his blue cloth, brass-buttoned coat, which he finally pulled into
place across his chest.

And a well-dressed man he was in spite of the frayed edges of his collar and shirt ruffles
and the shiny spots in his trousers and coat where the nap was worn smooth, nor was there any
man of his age who wore his clothes as well, no matter what their condition, or one who made
so debonair an appearance.

Pawson was of that opinion to-night when St. George, his toilet complete, joined him at the
bottom of the stairs. Indeed he thought he had never seen his client look better--a discovery
which sent a spasm of satisfaction through his long body, for he had a piece of important news
to tell him, and had been trying all day to make up his mind how best to break it.

"You look younger, Mr. Temple," he began, "and, if you will allow me to say so, handsomer,
every day. Your trip to the Eastern Shore last spring did you no end of good," and the young
attorney crooked his long neck and elevated his eyebrows and the corners of his mouth in the
effort to give to his sinuous body a semblance of mirth.

"Thank you, Pawson," bowed St. George, graciously. "You are really most kind, but that is because
you are stone blind. My shirt is full of holes, and it is quite likely I shall have to stand
all the evening for fear of splitting the knees of my breeches. Come--out with it"--he laughed--"there
is something you have to tell me or you would not be waiting for me here at this hour in the
cold hall."

Pawson smiled faintly, then his eyebrows lost their identity in some well-defined wrinkles
in his forehead.

"I have, sir, a most unpleasant thing to tell you--a very unpleasant thing. When I tried this
morning for a few days' grace on that last overdue payment, the agent informed me, to my great
surprise, that Mr. John Gorsuch had bought the mortgage and would thereafter collect the interest
in person. I am not sure, of course, but I am afraid Colonel Rutter is behind the purchase.
If he is we must be prepared to face the worst should he still feel toward you as he did when
you and he"--and he jerked his thumb meaningly in the direction of the dining-room--"had it
out--in there."

St. George compressed his lips. "And so Rutter holds the big end of the whip after all, does
he?" he exclaimed with some heat. "He will find the skin on my back not a very valuable asset,
but he is welcome to it. He has about everything else."

"But I'd rather pay it somehow if we could," rejoined Pawson in a furtive way--as if he had
something up his sleeve he dare not spring upon him.

"Yes--of course you would," retorted St. George with a cynical laugh, slipping on his gloves.
"Pay it?--of course pay it. Pay everything and everybody! What do you think I'd bring at auction,
Pawson? I'm white, you know, and so I can't be sold on the block--but the doctors might offer
you a trifle for cutting-up purposes. Bah! Hand me my coat, Todd."

A deprecatory smile flitted across the long, thin face of the attorney. He saw that St. George
was in no mood for serious things, and yet something must be done; certainly before the arrival
of Gorsuch himself, who was known to be an exact man of business and who would have his rights,
no matter who suffered.

"I had a little plan, sir--but you might not fall in with it. It would, perhaps, be only temporary,
but it is all I can think of. I had an applicant this morning--in fact it came within an hour
after I had heard the news. It seemed almost providential, sir."

St. George was facing the door, ready to leave the house, his shoulders still bent forward
so that Todd could adjust his heavy cloak the better, when for the first time the anxious tone
in Pawson's voice caught his attention. As the words fell from the attorney's lips he straightened,
and Todd stepped back, the garment still in the darky's hands.

"An applicant for what?" he inquired in a graver tone. He was not surprised--nothing surprised
him in these days--he was only curious.

"For the rooms you occupy. I can get enough for them, sir, not only to clear up the back interest,
but to keep the mortgage alive and--"

St. George's face paled as the full meaning of Pawson's proposal dawned in his mind. That was
the last thing he had expected.

"Turn me into the street, eh?" There was a note of pained surprise in his voice.

"I don't want you to put it that way, sir." His heart really bled for him--it was all he could
do to control himself.

"How the devil else can I put it?"

"Well, I thought you might want to do a little shooting, sir."

"Shooting! What with? One of Gadgem's guns? Hire it of him, eh, and steal the powder and shot!"
he cried savagely.

"Yes--if you saw fit, sir. Gadgem, I am sure, would be most willing, and you can always get
plenty of ammunition. Anyway, you might pass a few months with your kinsfolk on the Eastern
Shore, whether you hunted or not; it did you so much good before. The winter here is always
wearing, sloppy and wet. I've heard you say so repeatedly." He had not taken his eyes from
his face; he knew this was St. George's final stage, and he knew too that he would never again
enter the home he loved; but this last he could not tell him outright. He would rather have
cut his right hand off than tell him at all. Being even the humblest instrument in the exiling
of a man like St. George Wilmot Temple was in itself a torture.

"And when do you want me to quit?" he said calmly. "I suppose I can evacuate like an officer
and a gentleman and carry my side-arms with me--my father's cane, for instance, that I can
neither sell nor pawn, and a case of razors which are past sharpening?" and his smile broadened
as the humor of the thing stole over him.

"Well, sir, it ought to be done," continued Pawson in his most serious tone, ignoring the sacrifice--(there
was nothing funny in the situation to the attorney)--"well--I should say--right away. To-morrow,
perhaps. This news of Gorsuch has come very sudden, you know. If I can show him that the new
tenant has moved in already he might wait until his first month's rent was paid. You see that--"

"Oh, yes, Pawson, I see--see it all clear as day," interrupted St. George--"have been seeing
it for some months past, although neither you nor Gadgem seem to have been aware of that fact."
This came with so grave a tone that Pawson raised his eyes inquiringly. "And who is this man,"
Temple went on, "who wants to step into my shoes? Be sure you tell him they are half-soled,"
and he held up one boot. He might want to dance or hunt in them--and his toes would be out
the first thing he knew."

"He is Mr. Gorsuch's attorney, sir, a Mr. Fogbin," Pawson answered, omitting any reference
to the boots and still concerned over the gravity of the situation. "He did some work once
for Colonel Rutter, and that's how Gorsuch got hold of him. That's why I suspect the colonel.
This would make the interest sure, you see--rather a sly game, is it not, sir? One I did not
expect."

St. George pondered for a moment, and his eye fell on his servant.

"And what will I do with Todd?"

The darky's eyes had been rolling round in his head as the talk continued, Pawson, knowing
how leaky he was, having told him nothing of the impending calamity for fear he would break
it to his master in the wrong way.

"I should say take him with you," came the positive answer.

"Take him with me! You didn't think I would be separated from him, did you?" cried St. George,
indignantly, the first note of positive anger he had yet shown.

"I didn't think anything about it, sir," and he looked at Todd apologetically.

"Well, after this please remember, Mr. Pawson, that where I go Todd goes."

The darky leaned forward as if to seize St. George's hand; his eyes filled and his lips began
to tremble. He would rather have died than have left his master.

St. George walked to the door, threw it open, and stood for an instant, his eyes fixed on the
bare trees in the park. He turned and faced the two again:

"Todd!"

"Yes, Marse George--" Two hot ragged tears still lingered on the darky's eyelids.

"To-day is Monday, is it not?--and to-morrow is boat day?"

"Yes, Marse George," came the trembling answer.

"All right, Pawson, I'll go. Let Talbot Rutter have the rest--he's welcome to it. Now for my
cloak, Todd--so--and my neckerchief and cane. Thank you very much, Pawson. You have been very
kind about it all, and I know quite well what it has cost you to tell me this. You can't help--neither
can I--neither, for that matter, can Gorsuch--nor is it his fault. It is Rutter's, and he will
one day get his reckoning. Good-night--don't sit up too late. I am going to Mr. Horn's to spend
the evening. Walk along with me through the Park, Todd, so I can talk to you. And, Todd," he
continued when they had entered the path and were bending their steps to the Horn house, "I
want you to gather together to-morrow what are left of my clothes and pack them in one of those
hair trunks upstairs--and your own things in another. Never mind about waiting for the wash.
I'm going down to Aunt Jemima's myself in the morning and will fix it so she can send the rest
to me later on. I owe her a small balance and must see her once more before I leave. Now go
home and get to bed; you have been losing too much sleep of late."

And yet he was not cast down, nor did his courage fail him. Long before the darky's obedient
figure had disappeared his natural buoyancy had again asserted itself--or perhaps the philosophy
which always sustains a true gentleman in his hour of need had come to his assistance. He fully
realized what this last cowardly blow meant. One after another his several belongings had vanished:
his priceless family heirlooms; his dogs; and now the home of his ancestors. He was even denied
further shelter within its walls. But there were no regrets; his conscience still sustained
him; he would live it all over again. In his determination to keep to his standards he had
tried to stop a freshet with a shovelful of clay; that was all. It was a foolhardy attempt,
no doubt, but he would have been heartily ashamed of himself if he had not made the effort.
Wesley, of course, was not a very exciting place in which to spend the winter, but it was better
than being under obligations to Talbot Rutter; and then he could doubtless earn enough at the
law to pay his board--at least he would try.

He had reached the end of the walk and had already caught the glow of the overhead lantern
in the hall of the Horn mansion lighting up the varied costumes of the guests as Malachi swung
back the front door, revealing the girls in their pink and white nubias, the gallants in long
cloaks with scarlet linings, the older men in mufflers, and the mothers and grandmothers in
silk hoods. There was no question of Richard's popularity.

"Clar to goodness, Marse George, you is a sight for sore eyes," cried Malachi, unhooking the
clasp of the velvet collar and helping him off with his cloak. "I ain't never seen ye looking
spryer! Yes, sah, Marse Richard's inside and he'll be mighty glad ye come. Yes--jedge--jes's
soon as I--Dat's it, mistis--I'll take dat shawl--No, sah, Marse Richard ain't begun yit. Dis
way, ladies," and so it had gone on since the opening rat-a-tat-tat on the old brass knocker
had announced the arrival of the first guest.

Nor was there any question that everybody who could by any possibility have availed themselves
of Richard's invitation had put in an appearance. Most of the men from the club known to these
pages were present, together with their wives and children--those who were old enough to sit
up late; and Nathan Gill, without his flute this time, but with ears wide open--he was beginning
to get gray, was Nathan, although he wouldn't admit it; and Miss Virginia Clendenning in high
waist and voluminous skirts, fluffy side curls, and a new gold chain for her eyeglasses--gold
rims, too, of course--not to mention the Murdochs, Stirlings, Gatchells, Captain Warfield and
his daughter, Bowdoin, and Purviance. They were all there; everybody, in fact, who could squeeze
inside the drawing-room; while those who couldn't filled the hall and even the stairs--wherever
Richard's voice could be heard.

St. George edged into the packed room, swept his glance over the throng, and made his way through
the laughing groups, greeting every one right and left, old and young, as he moved--a kiss
here on the upturned cheek of some pretty girl whom he had carried in his arms when a baby;
a caressing pat of approbation on some young gallant's shoulder; a bend of the head in respectful
homage to those he knew but slightly--the Baroness de Trobiand, Mrs. Cheston's friend, being
one of them; a hearty hand held out to the men who had been away for the summer--interrupted
now and then by some such sally from a young bride as--"Oh, you mean Uncle George! No--I'm
not going to love you any more! You promised you would come to my party and you didn't, and
my cotillon was all spoiled!" or a--"Why, Temple, you dear man!-I'm so glad to see you! Don't
forget my dinner on Thursday. The Secretary is coming and I want you to sit between him and
Lord Atherton"--a sort of triumphal procession, really--until he reached the end of the room
and stood at Kate's side.

"Well, sweetheart!" he cried gayly, caressing her soft hand before his fingers closed over
it. Then his face hardened. "Ah, Mr. Willits! So you, too, must come under the spell of Mr.
Horn's voice," and without waiting for a reply continued as if nothing had interrupted the
joy of his greeting. "You should sit down somewhere, my dear Kate--get as near to Richard as
you can, so you can watch his face--that's the best part of it. And I should advise you, too,
Mr. Willits, to miss none of his words--it will be something you will remember all your life."

Kate looked up in his face with a satisfied smile. She was more than glad that her Uncle George
was so gracious to her escort, especially to-night when he was to meet a good many people for
the first time.

"I'll take the stool, then, dear Uncle George," she answered with a merry laugh. "Go get it,
please, Mr. Willits--the one under the sofa." Then, with a toss of her head and a coquettish
smile at St. George: "What a gadabout you are; do you know I've been three times to see you,
and not a soul in your house and the front door wide open, and everything done up in curl papers
as if you were going to move away for good and all and never coming back? And do you know that
you haven't been near me for a whole week? What do you mean by breaking my heart? Thank you,
Mr. Willits; put the stool right here, so I can look up into Mr. Horn's eyes as Uncle George
wants me to. I've known the time, sir"--and she arched her brows at St. George--"when you would
be delighted to have me look my prettiest at you, but now before I am halfway across the park
you slip out of the basement door to avoid me and--No!--no--no apologies--you are just tired
of me!"

St. George laughed gayly in return, his palms flattened against each other and held out in
supplication; but he made no defence. He was studying the couple, his mind on the bearing and
manner of the young man toward the woman he was pursuing so relentlessly. He saw that he had
completely regained his health, his clear eyes and ruddy skin and the spring with which he
moved denoting a man in perfect physical condition. He discovered, too, that he was extremely
well dressed and his costume all that it should be--especially the plum-colored coat, which
fitted his shoulders to perfection; his linen of the whitest and finest, each ruffle in flutes;
the waist-coat embroidered in silk; the pumps of the proper shape and the stockings all that
could be desired--except perhaps--and a grim smile crossed his face--that the silk scarf was
a shade out of key with the prevailing color of his make-up, particularly his hair; but, then,
that was to be expected of a man who had a slight flaw in his ancestry. He wondered if she
had noticed it and studied her face for an answer. No! She had not noticed it. In fact there
were very many things she was overlooking in these last days of his wooing, he thought to himself.

Suddenly he became occupied with Kate's beauty. He thought he had never seen her so bewitching
or in such good spirits. From his six feet and an inch of vantage his eyes followed her sloping
shoulders and tapering arms and rested on her laughing, happy face--rose-colored in the soft
light of the candles--a film of lace looped at her elbows, her wonderful hair caught in a coil
at the back: not the prevailing fashion but one most becoming to her. What had not this admixture
of Scotch and Virginia blood--this intermingling of robust independence with the gentle, yielding
feminine qualities of the Southern-born woman--done for this girl?

Richard clapped his hands to attract attention, and advancing a step in front of the big easy-chair
which Malachi had just pulled out for him, raised his fingers to command silence.

All eyes were instantly turned his way. Alert and magnetic, dignified and charming, he stood
in the full glow of the overhead chandelier, its light falling upon his snuff-brown coat with
its brass buttons, pale-yellow waistcoat, and the fluff of white silk about his throat--his
grave, thoughtful face turned toward Kate as his nearest guest, his glance sweeping the crowded
room as if to be sure that everybody was at ease; Malachi close behind awaiting his master's
orders to further adjust the chair and reading-lamp.

In the interim of the hush Kate had settled herself at Richard's feet on the low stool that
Willits had brought, the young man standing behind her, the two making a picture that attracted
general attention; some wondering at her choice, while others were outspoken in their admiration
of the pair who seemed so wonderfully suited to each other.

"I have a rare story," Richard began "to read to you to-night, my good friends, one you will
never forget; one, indeed, which I am sure the world at large will never forget. I shall read
it as best I can, begging your indulgence especially in rendering the dialect parts, which,
if badly done, often mar both the pathos and humor of the text." Here he settled himself in
his chair and picked up the small volume, Malachi, now that his service was over, tiptoeing
out to his place in the hall so as to be ready for belated arrivals.

The room grew silent. Even Mrs. Cheston, who rarely ceased talking when she had anything to
say--and she generally did have something to say--folded her hands in her lap and settled herself
in her arm-chair, her whole attention fastened on the reader. St. George, who had been talking
to her, moved up a chair so he could watch Kate's face the better.

Again Richard raised his voice:

"The time is of the present, and the scene is laid in one of those small towns outside London.
I shall read the whole story, omitting no word of the text, for only then will you fully grasp
the beauty of the author's style."

He began in low, clear tones reciting the contest between the hum of the kettle and the chirp
of the cricket; the music of his voice lending added charm to the dual song. Then there followed
in constantly increasing intensity the happy home life of bewitching Dot Perrybingle and her
matter-of-fact husband, John the Carrier, with sleepy Tilly Slowboy and the Baby to fill out
the picture; the gradual unfolding of the events that led up to the cruel marriage about to
take place between old Tackleton, the mean toy merchant, and sweet May Fielding, in love with
the sailor boy, Edward, lost at sea; the finding of the mysterious deaf old man by John the
Carrier, and the bringing him home in his cart to Dot, who kept him all night because his friends
had not called for him; the rapid growth of a love affair between Dot and this old man, who
turned out to be a handsome young fellow; the heart-rending discovery by John, through the
spying of Tackleton, that Dot was untrue to him, she meeting the man clandestinely and adjusting
the disguise for him, laughing all the while at the ruse she was helping him to play; the grief
of John when he realized the truth, he sitting all night alone by the fire trying to make up
his mind whether he would creep upstairs and murder the villain who had stolen the heart of
his little Dot, or forgive her because he was so much older than she and it was, therefore,
natural for her to love a younger man; and finally the preparations at the church, where Tackleton
was to wed the beautiful May Fielding, who, broken-hearted over the death of her sailor boy,
had at last succumbed to her mother's wishes and consented to join Tackleton at the altar.

For an hour Richard's well-modulated, full-toned voice rolled on, the circle drawing closer
and closer with their ears and hearts, as the characters, one after another, became real and
alive under the reader's magical rendering. Dot Perrybingle's cheery, laughing accents; Tackleton's
sharp, rasping tones; John the Carrier's simple, straightforward utterances and the soft, timid
cadence of old Caleb, the toy maker--(drowned Edward's father)--and his blind daughter Bertha
were recognized as soon as the reader voiced their speech. So thrilling was the story of their
several joys and sorrows that Kate, unconscious of her surroundings, had slipped from her low
stool, and with the weight of her body resting on her knees, sat searching Richard's face,
the better to catch every word that fell from his lips.

To heighten the effect of what was the most dramatic part of the story--the return of the wedding
party to the Carrier's house, where Dot, Caleb, and his blind daughter awaited them--Richard
paused for a moment as if to rest his voice--the room the while deathly still, the loosening
of a pent-up breath now and then showing how tense was the emotion. Then he went on:

"Are those wheels upon the road, Bertha?", cried Dot.

All honor to the little creature for her transports! All honor to her tears and laughter, when
the three were locked in one another's arms!

"You!"

"I had," rejoined the other, "and she returned it--I heard twenty miles away that she was false
to me--I had no mind to reproach her but to see for myself."

Little woman, how she sobbed!

Richard Stopped and picking up a glass from the table moistened his lips. The silence continued.
Down more than one face the tears were trickling, as they have trickled down millions of faces
since. Kate had crept imperceptibly nearer until her hands could have touched Richard's knees.
When Willits bent over her with a whispered comment a slight shiver ran through her, but she
neither answered nor turned her head. It was only when Richard's voice finally ceased with
the loud chirp of the cricket at the close of the beloved story, and St. George had helped
her to her feet, that she seemed to awake to a sense of where she was. Even then she looked
about her in a dazed way, as if she feared some one had been probing her heart--hanging back
till the others had showered their congratulations on the reader. Then leaning forward she
placed her hands in Richard's as if to steady herself, and with a sigh that seemed to come
from the depths of her nature bent her head and kissed him softly on the cheek.

When the eggnog was being served and the guests were broken up into knots and groups, all discussing
the beauty of the reading, she suddenly left Willits, who had followed her every move as if
he had a prior right to her person, and going up to St. George, led him out of the room to
one of the sofas in Richard's study, her lips quivering, the undried tears still trembling
on her eyelids. She did not release his hand as they took their seats. Her fingers closed only
the tighter, as if she feared he would slip from her grasp.

"It was all so beautiful and so terrible, Uncle George," she moaned at last--"and all so true.
Such awful mistakes are made and then it is too late. And nobody understands--nobody--nobody!"
She paused, as if the mere utterance pained her, and then to St. George's amazement asked abruptly
"Is there nothing yet from Harry?"

St. George looked at her keenly, wondering whether he had caught the words aright. It had been
months since Harry's name had crossed her lips.

"No, nothing," he answered simply, trying to fathom her purpose and completely at sea as to
her real motive--"not for some months. Not since he left the ship."

"And do you think he is in any danger?" She had released his hand, and with her fingers resting
on the sleeve of his coat sat looking into his eyes as if to read their meaning.

"I don't know," he replied in a non-committal tone, still trying to understand her purpose.
"He meant then to go to the mountains, so he wrote his mother. This may account for our not
hearing. Why do you ask? Have you had any news of him yourself?" he added, studying her face
for some solution of her strange attitude.

She sank back on the cushions. "No, he never writes to me." Then, as if some new train of thought
had forced its way into her mind, she exclaimed suddenly: "What mountains?"

"Some range back of Rio, if I remember rightly. He said he--"

"Rio! But there is yellow fever at Rio!" she cried, with a start as she sat erect in her seat,
the pupils of her eyes grown to twice their size. "Father lost half of one of his crews at
Rio. He heard so to-day. It would be dreadful for--for--his mother--if anything should happen
to him."

Again St. George scrutinized her face, trying to probe deep down in her heart. Had she, after
all, some affection left for this boy lover--and her future husband within hearing distance!
No! This was not his Kate--he understood it all now. It was the spell of the story that still
held her. Richard's voice had upset her, as it had done half the room.

"Yes, it is dreadful for everybody," he added. And then, in a perfunctory manner, as being
perhaps the best way to lead the conversation into other channels, added: "And the suspense
will be worse now--for me at any rate--for I, too, am going away where letters reach me but
seldom."

Her hand closed convulsively over his.

"You going away! YOU!" she cried in a half-frightened tone. "Oh, please don't, Uncle George!
Oh!--I don't want you away from me! Why must you go? Oh, no! Not now--not now!"

Her distress was so marked and her voice so pleading that he was about to tell her the whole
story, even to that of the shifts he had been put to to get food for himself and Todd, when
he caught sight of Willits making his way through the throng to where they sat. His lips closed
tight. This man would always be a barrier between him and the girl he had loved ever since
her babyhood.

"Well, my dear Kate," he replied calmly, his eyes still on Willits, who in approaching from
the other room had been detained by a guest, "you see I must go. Mr. Pawson wants me out of
the way while he fixes up some of my accounts, and so he suggested that I go back to Wesley
for a few months." He paused for an instant and, still keeping his eye on Willets, added: "And
now one thing more, my dear Kate, before your escort claims you"--here his voice sank to a
whisper--"promise me that if Harry writes to you you will send him a kind, friendly letter
in return. It can do you no harm now, nor would Harry misunderstand it--your wedding is so
near. A letter would greatly cheer him in his loneliness."

"But he won't write!" she exclaimed with some bitterness--she had not yet noticed Willits's
approach--"he'll never write or speak to me again."

"But you will if he does?" pleaded St. George, the thought of his boy's loneliness overmastering
every other feeling.

"But he won't, I tell you--never--NEVER!"

"But if he should, my child? If--"

He stopped and raised his head. Willits stood gazing down at them, searching St. George's face,
as if to learn the meaning of the conference: he knew that he did not favor his suit.

Kate looked up and her face flushed.

"Yes--in one minute, Mr. Willits," and without a word of any kind to St. George she rose from
the sofa and with her arm in Willits's left the room.

CHAPTER XXIV

One winter evening some weeks after St. George's departure, Pawson sat before a smouldering
fire in Temple's front room, reading by the light of a low lamp. He had rearranged the furniture--what
was left of it--both in this and the adjoining room, in the expectation that Fogbin (Gorsuch's
attorney) would move in, but so far he had not appeared, nor had any word come from either
Gorsuch or Colonel Rutter; nor had any one either written or called upon him in regard to the
overdue payment; neither had any legal papers been served.

This prolonged and ominous silence disturbed him; so much so that he had made it a point to
be as much in his office as possible should his enemy spring any unexpected trap.

It was, therefore, with some misgivings that he answered a quick, impatient rap on his front
door at the unusual hour of ten o'clock. If it were Fogbin he had everything ready for his
comfort; if it were any one else he would meet him as best he could: no legal papers, at any
rate, could be served at that hour.

He swung back the door and a full-bearded, tightly-knit, well-built man in rough clothes stepped
in. In the dim light of the overhead lamp he caught the flash of a pair of determined eyes
set in a strong, forceful face.

"I want Mr. Temple," said the man, who had now removed his cap and stood looking about him,
as if making an inventory of the scanty furniture.

"He is not here," replied Pawson, rummaging the intruder's face for some clew to his identity
and purpose in calling at so late an hour.

"Are you sure?" There was doubt as well as marked surprise in the man's tone. He evidently
did not believe a word of the statement.

"Very sure," rejoined the attorney in a more positive tone, his eyes still on the stranger.
"He left town some weeks ago."

The intruder turned sharply, and with a brisk inquisitive movement strode past him and pushed
open the dining-room door. There he stood for a moment, his eyes roaming over the meagre appointments
of the interior--the sideboard, bare of everything but a pitcher and some tumblers--the old
mahogany table littered with law books and papers--the mantel stripped of its clock and candelabras.
Then he stepped inside, and without explanation of any kind, crossed the room, opened the door
of St. George's bedroom, and swept a comprehensive glance around the despoiled interior. Once
he stopped and peered into the gloom as if expecting to find the object of his search concealed
in its shadows.

"What has happened here?" he demanded in a voice which plainly showed his disappointment.

"Do you mean what has become of the rest of the furniture?" asked the attorney in reply, gaining
time to decide upon his course.

"Yes, who is responsible for this business?" he exclaimed angrily. "Has it been done during
his absence?"

Pawson hesitated. That the intruder was one of Gorsuch's men, and that he had been sent in
advance on an errand of investigation, was no longer to be doubted. He, however, did not want
to add any fuel to his increasing heat, so he answered simply:

"Mr. Temple got caught in the Patapsco failure and it went pretty hard with him, and so what
he didn't actually need he sold."

The man gave a start, his features hardening; but whether of surprise or dissatisfaction Pawson
could not tell.

"And when it was all gone he went away--is that what you mean?" This came in a softened tone.

"Yes--that seems to be the size of it. I suppose you come about--some"--again he hesitated,
not knowing exactly where the man stood--"about some money due you?--Am I right?"

"No, I came to see Mr. Temple, and I must see him, and at once. How long will he be gone?"

"All winter--perhaps longer." The attorney had begun to breathe again. The situation might
not be as serious as he had supposed. If he wanted to see Mr. Temple himself, and no one else
would do, there was still chance of delay in the wiping out of the property.

Again the man's eyes roamed over the room, the bareness of which seemed still to impress him.
Then he asked simply: "Where will a letter reach him?"

"I can't say exactly. I thought he had gone to Virginia--but he doesn't answer any of my communications."

A look of suspicion crept into the intruder's eyes.

"You're not trying to deceive me, are you? It is very important that I should see Mr. Temple,
and at once." Then his manner altered. "You've forgotten me, Mr. Pawson, but I have not forgotten
you--my name is Rutter. I lived here with Mr. Temple before I went to sea, three years ago.
I am just home--I left the ship an hour ago. I'll sit down if you don't mind--I've still got
my sea-legs on and am a little wobbly."

Pawson twisted his thin body and bent his neck, his eyes glued to the speaker's face. There
was not a trace of young Harry in the features.

"Well, you don't look like him," he replied incredulously--"he was slender--not half your size,
and--"

"Yes--I don't blame you. I am a good deal heavier; may be too a beard makes some change in
a man's face. But you don't really doubt me, do you? Have you forgotten the bills that man
Gadgem brought in?--the five hundred dollars due Slater, and the horse Hampson sold me--the
one I shot?" and one of his old musical laughs rose to his lips.

Pawson sprang forward and seized the intruder's hand. He would recognize that laugh among a
thousand:

"Yes--I know you now! It's all come back to me," he cried joyously. "But you gave me a terrible
start, Mr. Rutter. I thought you had come to clear up what was left. Oh!--but I AM glad you
are back. Your uncle--you always called him so, I remember--your uncle has had an awful hard
time of it--had to sell most of his things--terrible--terrible! And then, too, he has grieved
so over you--asking me, sometimes two or three times a day, for letters from you--asking me
questions and worrying over your not coming and not answering. Oh, this is fine. Now may be
we can save the situation. You don't mind my shaking your hand again, do you? It's so good
to know there is somebody who can help. I have been all alone so far except Gadgem--who has
been a treasure. You remember him. Why didn't you let Mr. Temple know you were coming?"

"I couldn't. I have been up in the mountains of Brazil, and coming home went ashore--got wrecked.
These clothes I bought from a sailor," and he opened his rough jacket the wider.

"Yes--that's exactly what I heard him say--that's what he thought--that is, that you were where
you couldn't write, although I never heard him say anything about shipwreck. I remember his
telling Mr. Willits and Miss Seymour that same thing the morning he left--that you couldn't
write. They came to see him off."

Harry edged his chair nearer the fireplace and propped one shoe on the fender as if to dry
it, although the night was fair. The mention of Kate's and her suitor's names had sent the
blood to his head and he was using the subterfuge in the effort to regain control of himself
before Pawson should read all his secrets.

Shifting his body he rested his head on his hand, the light of the lamp bringing into clearer
relief his fresh, healthy skin, finely modelled nose, and wide brow, the brown hair, clipped
close to his head, still holding its glossy sheen. For some seconds he did not speak: the low
song of the fire seemed to absorb him. Now and then Pawson, who was watching him intently,
heard him strangle a rebellious sigh, as if some old memory were troubling him. His hand dropped
and with a quick movement he faced his companion again.

"I have been away a long time, Mr. Pawson," he said in a thoughtful tone. "For three months--four
now--I have had no letters from anybody. It was my fault partly, but let that go. I want you
to answer some questions, and I want you to tell me the truth--all the truth. I haven't any
use for any other kind of man--do you understand? Is my mother alive?"

"Yes."

"And Alec? Is he all right?"

Pawson nodded.

"And my uncle? Is he ruined?--so badly ruined that he is suffering? Tell me." There was a peculiar
pathos in his tone--so much so that Pawson, who had been standing, settled into a chair beside
him that his answers might, if possible, be the more intimate and sympathetic.

"I'm afraid he is. The only hope is the postponement in some way of the foreclosure of the
mortgage on this house until times get better. It wouldn't bring its face value to-day."

Harry caught his breath: "My God!--you don't tell me so! Poor Uncle George--so fine and splendid--so
good to everybody, and he has come to this! And about this mortgage--who owns it?"

"Mr. Gorsuch, I understand, owns it now: he bought it of the Tyson estate."

"You mean John Gorsuch--my father's man of business?"

"Yes."

"And was there nothing left?--no money coming in from anywhere?"

Pawson shook his head: "We collected all that some time ago--it came from some old ground rents."

"And how has he lived since?" He wanted to hear it all; he could help better if he knew how
far down the ladder to begin.

"From hand to mouth, really." And then there followed his own and Gadgem's efforts to keep
the wolf from the door; the sale of the guns, saddles, and furniture; the wrench over the Castullux
cup--and what a godsend it was that Kirk got such a good price for it--down to the parting
with the last article that either or both of them could sell or pawn, including his four splendid
setters.

As the sad story fell from the attorney's sympathetic lips Harry would now and then cover his
face with his hands in the effort to hide the tears. He knew that the ruin was now complete.
He knew, too, that he had been the cause of it. Then his thoughts reverted to the old regime
and its comforts: those which his uncle had shared with him so generously.

"And what has become of my uncle's servants?" he asked--"his cook, Aunt Jemima, and his body-servant,
Todd?"

"I don't know what has become of the cook, but he took Todd with him."

Harry heaved a sigh of relief. If Todd was with him life would still be made bearable for his
uncle. Perhaps, after all, a winter with Tom Coston was the wisest thing he could have done.

One other question now trembled on his lips. It was one he felt he had no right to ask--not
of Pawson--but it was his only opportunity, and he must know the truth if he was to carry out
the other plans he had in view the day he dropped everything and came home without warning.
At last he asked casually:

"Do you know whether my father returned to Uncle George the money he paid out for me?" Not
that it was important--more as if he wanted to be posted on current events.

"He tried, but Mr. Temple wouldn't take it. I had the matter in hand, and know. This was some
three years ago. He has never offered it since--not to my knowledge."

Harry's face lightened. Some trace of decency was still left in the Rutter blood! This money
was in all honor owed by his father and might still become an asset if he and his uncle should
ever become reconciled.

"And can you tell me how they all are--out at Moorlands? Have you seen my father lately?"

"Not your father, but I met your old servant, Alec, a few days ago."

"Alec!--dear old Alec! Tell me about him. And my mother--was she all right? What did Alec say,
and how did the old man look?"

"Yes; your mother was well. He said they were all well, except Colonel Rutter, whose eyes troubled
him. Alec seemed pretty much the same--may be a little older."

Harry's mind began to wander. The room and his companion were forgotten. He was again at Moorlands,
the old negro following him about, his dear mother sitting by his bed or kissing him goodnight.

For an instant he sat gazing into the smouldering embers absorbed in his thoughts. Then as
if some new vista had opened out before him he asked suddenly:

"You don't know what he was doing in town, do you? Was my mother with him?"

"No, he was alone. He had brought some things in for Mr. Seymour--some game or something, if
I remember right. There's to be a wedding there soon, so I hear. Yes, now I think of it, it
WAS game--some partridges, perhaps, your father had sent in. The old man asked about you--he
always does. And now, Mr. Rutter, tell me about yourself--have you done well?" He didn't think
he had, judging from his general appearance, but he wanted to be sure in case St. George asked him.

Harry settled in his chair, his broad shoulders filling the back. The news of Kate's wedding
was what he had expected. Perhaps it was already over. He was glad, however, the information
had come to him unsought. For an instant he made no reply to Pawson's inquiry, then he answered
slowly: "Yes, and no. I have made a little money--not much--but some--not enough to pay Uncle
George everything I owe him--not yet; another time I shall do better. I was down with fever
for a while and that cost me a good deal of what I had saved. But I HAD to come back. I met
a man who told me Uncle George was ruined; that he had left this house and that somebody had
put a sign on it, I thought at first that this must refer to you and your old arrangement in
the basement, until I questioned him closer. I knew how careless he had always been about his
money transactions, and was afraid some one had taken advantage of him. That's why I was so
upset when I came in a while ago: I thought they had stolen his furniture as well. The ship
Mohican--one of the old Barkeley line--was sailing the day I reached the coast and I got aboard
and worked my passage home. I learned to do that on my way out. I learned to wear a beard too.
Not very becoming, is it?"--and a low, forced laugh escaped his lips. "But shaving is not easy
aboard ship or in the mines."

Pawson made no reply. He had been studying his guest the closer while he was talking, his mind
more on the man than on what he was saying. The old Harry, which the dim light of the hall
and room had hidden, was slowly coming back to him:--the quick turn of the head; the way his
lips quivered when he laughed; the exquisitely modelled nose and brow, and the way the hair
grew on the temples. The tones of his voice, too, had the old musical ring. It was the same
madcap, daredevil boy mellowed and strengthened by contact with the outside world. Next he
scrutinized his hands, their backs bronzed and roughened by contact with the weather, and waited
eagerly until some gesture opened the delicately turned fingers, exposing the white palms,
and felt relieved and glad when he saw that they showed no rough usage. His glance rested on
his well-turned thighs, slender waist, and broad, strong shoulders and arms--and then his eyes--so
clear, and his skin so smooth and fresh--a clean soul in a clean body! What joy would be Temple's
when he got his arms around this young fellow once more!

The wanderer reached for his cap and pushed back his chair. For an instant he stood gazing
into the smouldering coals as if he hated to leave their warmth, his brow clouded, his shoulders
drawn back. He had all the information he wanted--all he had come in search of, although it
was not exactly what he wished or what he had expected:--his uncle ruined and an exile; his
father half blind and Kate's wedding expected any week. That was enough at least for one night.

He stepped forward and grasped Pawson's hand, his well-knit, alert body in contrast to the
loosely jointed, long-legged, young attorney.

"I must thank you, Mr. Pawson," he said in his old outspoken, hearty way "for your frankness,
and I must also apologize for my apparent rudeness when I first entered your door; but, as
I told you, I was so astounded and angry at what I saw that I hardly knew what I was doing.
And now one thing more before I take my leave: if Mr. Temple does not want his present retreat
known--and I gather from the mysterious way in which you have spoken that he does not--let
me tell you that I do not want mine known either. Please do not say to any one that you have
seen me, or answer any questions--not for a time, at least. Good-night!"

With the closing of the front door behind him the exile came to a standstill on the top step
and looked about him. Across the park--beyond the trees, close sheltered under the wide protecting
roof, lay Kate. All the weary miles out and back had this picture been fixed in his mind. She
was doubtless asleep as it was now past eleven o'clock: he would know by the lights. But even
the sight of the roof that sheltered her would, in itself, be a comfort. It had been many long
years since he had breathed the same air with her; slept under the same stars; walked where
her feet had trodden. For some seconds he stood undecided. Should he return to the Sailors'
House where he had left his few belongings and banish all thoughts of her from his mind now
that his worst fears had been confirmed? or should he yield to the strain on his heart-strings?
If she were asleep the whole house would be dark; if she were at some neighbor's and Mammy
Henny was sitting up for her, the windows in the bedroom would be dark and the hall lamp still
burning--he had watched it so often before and knew the signs.

Drawing the collar of his rough peajacket close about his throat and crowding his cap to his
ears, he descended the steps and with one of his quick, decided movements plunged into the
park, now silent and deserted.

As he neared the Seymour house he became conscious, from the glow of lights gleaming between
the leafless branches of the trees, that something out of the common was going on inside. The
house was ablaze from the basement to the roof, with every window-shade illumined. Outside
the steps, and as far out as the curb, lounged groups of attendants, while in the side street,
sheltered by the ghostly trees, there could be made out the wheels and hoods of carryalls and
the glint of harness. Now and then the door would open and a bevy of muffled figures--the men
in cloaks, the girls in nubias wound about their heads and shoulders--would pass out. The Seymours
were evidently giving a ball, or was it--and the blood left his face and little chills ran
loose through his hair--was it Kate's wedding night? Pawson had said that a marriage would
soon take place, and in the immediate future. It was either this or an important function of
some kind, and on a much more lavish scale than had been old Prim's custom in the days when
he knew him. Then the contents of Alec's basket rose in his mind. That was why his father had
sent the pheasants! Perhaps both he and his mother were inside!

Sick at heart he turned on his heel and with quickened pace retraced his steps. He would not
be a spy, and he could not he an eavesdropper. As the thought forced itself on his mind, the
fear that he might meet some one whom he would know, or who would know him, overtook him. So
great was his anxiety that it was only when he had left the park far behind him on his way
back to the Sailors' House, that he regained his composure. He was prepared to face the truth,
and all of it whatever it held in store for him; but he must first confront his father and
learn just how he stood with him; then he would see his mother and Alec, and then he would
find St. George: Kate must come last.

The news that his father had offered to pay his debts--although he did not intend that that
should relieve him in any way of his own responsibility to his uncle--kindled fresh hopes in
his heart and buoyed him up. Now that his father had tried repeatedly to repair the wrong he
had done it might only be necessary to throw himself on his knees before him and be taken back
into his heart and arms. To see him, then, was his first duty and this he would begin to carry
out in the morning. As to his meeting his mother and Alec--should he fail with his father--that
must be undertaken with more care, for he could not place himself in the position of sneaking
home and using the joy his return would bring them as a means to soften his father's heart.
Yes, he would find his father first, then his mother and Alec. If his father received him the
others would follow. If he was repulsed, he must seek out some other way.

This over he would find St. George. He knew exactly where his uncle was, although he had not
said so to Pawson. He was not at Coston's, nor anywhere in the vicinity of Wesley, but at Craddock,
on the bay--a small country house some miles distant, where he and his dogs had often spent
days and weeks during the ducking season. St. George had settled down there to rest and get
away from his troubles; that was why he had not answered Pawson's letters.

Striding along with his alert, springing step, he swung through the deserted and unguarded
Marsh Market, picked his way between the piles of produce and market carts, and plunging down
a narrow street leading to the wharf, halted before a door over which swung a lantern burning
a green light. Here he entered.

Although it was now near midnight, there were still eight or ten seafaring men in the room--several
of them members of his own crew aboard the Mohican. Two were playing checkers, the others crowded
about a square table where a game of cards was in progress; wavy lines of tobacco smoke floated
beneath the dingy ceiling; at one end was a small bar where a man in a woollen shirt was filling
some short, thick tumblers from an earthen jug. It was the ordinary sailors' retreat where
the men put up before, between, and after their voyages.

One of them at the card-table looked up from his game as Harry entered, and called out:

"Man been lookin' for you--comin' back, he says. My trick! Hearts, wasn't it?" (this to his
companions).

"Do I know him?" asked Harry with a slight start, pausing on his way to his bedroom upstairs,
where he had left his bag of clothes two hours before. Could he have been recognized and shadowed?

"No--don't think so; he's a street vendor. Got some China silks to sell--carries his pack on
his back and looks as if he'd took up a extry 'ole in his belt. Hungry, I wouldn't wonder.
Wanted to h'ist 'em fur a glass o' grog an' a night's lodgin', but Cap wouldn't let him--said
you'd be back and might help him. Wasn't that it, Cap?"--this to the landlord, who nodded in reply.

"How could I help him?" asked Harry, selecting a tallow dip from a row on a shelf, but in a
tone that implied his own doubt in the query, as well as his relief, now that the man was really
a stranger.

"Well, this is your port, so I 'ear. Some o' them high-flyers up 'round the park might lend
a hand, may be, if you'd tip 'em a wink, or some o' their women folks might take a shine to 'em."

"Looked hungry, did you say?" Harry asked, lighting the dip at an oil lamp that swung near the bar.

"Yes--holler's a drum--see straight through him; tired too--beat out. You'd think so if you
see him. My play--clubs."

Harry turned to the landlord: "If this man comes in again give him food and lodging," and he
handed him a bank bill. "If he is here in the morning let me see him. I'm going to bed now.
Good-night, men!"

CHAPTER XXV

Should I lapse into the easy-flowing style of the chroniclers of the period of which I write--(and
how often has the scribe wished he could)--this chapter would open with the announcement that
on this particularly bleak, wintry afternoon a gentleman in the equestrian costume of the day,
and mounted upon a well-groomed, high-spirited white horse, might have been seen galloping
rapidly up a country lane leading to an old-fashioned manor house.

Such, however, would not cover the facts. While the afternoon was certainly wintry, and while
the rider was unquestionably a gentleman, he was by no manner of means attired in velveteen
coat and russet-leather boots with silver spurs, his saddle-bags strapped on behind, but in
a rough and badly worn sailor's suit, his free hand grasping a bundle carried loose on his
pommel. As to the horse neither the immortal James or any of his school could truthfully picture
this animal as either white or high-spirited. He might, it is true, have been born white and
would in all probability have stayed white but for the many omissions and commissions of his
earlier livery stable training--traces of which could still be found in his scraped sides and
gnawed mane and tail; he might also have once had a certain commendable spirit had not the
ups and downs of road life--and they were pretty steep outside Kennedy Square--taken it out of him.

It is, however, when I come to the combination of horse and rider that I can with entire safety
lapse into the flow of the old chroniclers. For whatever Harry had forgotten in his many experiences
since he last threw his leg over Spitfire, horsemanship was not one of them. He still rode
like a Cherokee and still sat his mount like a prince.

He had had an anxious and busy morning. With the first streak of dawn he had written a long
letter to his Uncle George, in which he told him of his arrival; of his heart-felt sorrow at
what Pawson had imparted and of his leaving immediately, first for Wesley and then Craddock,
as soon as he found out how the land lay at Moorlands. This epistle he was careful to enclose
in another envelope, which he directed to Justice Coston, with instructions to forward it with
"the least possible delay" to Mr. Temple, who was doubtless at Craddock, "and who was imperatively
needed at home in connection with some matters which required his immediate personal attention,"
and which enclosure, it is just as well to state, the honorable justice placed inside the mantel
clock, that being the safest place for such precious missives, at least until the right owner
should appear.

This duly mailed, he had returned to the Sailors' House, knocked at the door of the upstairs
room in which, through his generosity, the street vendor lay sleeping, and after waking him
up and becoming assured that the man was in real distress, had bought at twice their value
the China silks which had caused the disheartened pedler so many weary hours of tramping. These
he had tucked under his arm and carried away.

The act was not alone due to his charitable instincts. A much more selfish motive influenced
him. Indeed the thought came to him in a way that had determined him to attend to his mail
at early dawn and return at sunrise lest the owner should disappear and take the bundle with
him. The silks were the very things he needed to help him solve one of his greatest difficulties.
He would try, as the sailor-pedler had done, to sell them in the neighborhood of Moorlands--(a
common practice in those days)--and in this way might gather up the information of which he
was in search. Pawson had not known him--perhaps the others would not: he might even offer
the silks to his father without being detected.

With this plan clearly defined in his mind, he had walked into a livery stable near the market,
but a short distance from his lodgings, with the silks in a bundle and after looking the stock
over had picked out this unprepossessing beast as best able to take him to Moorlands and back
between sunrise and dark.

As he rode on, leaving the scattered buildings of the town far behind, mounting the hills and
then striking the turnpike--every rod of which he could have found in the dark--his thoughts,
like road-swallows, skimmed each mile he covered. Here was where he had stopped with Kate when
her stirrup broke; near the branches of that oak close to the ditch marking the triangle of
cross-roads he had saved his own and Spitfire's neck by a clear jump that had been the talk
of the neighborhood for days. On the crest of this hill--the one he was then ascending--his
father always tightened up the brakes on his four-in-hand, and on the slope beyond invariably
braced himself in his seat, swung his whip, and the flattened team swept on and down, leaving
a cloud of dust in its wake that blurred the road for minutes thereafter.

When noon came he dismounted at a farmer's out-building beside the road--he would not trust
the public-houses--fed and watered his horse, rubbed him down himself, and after an hour's
rest pushed on toward the fork in the road to Moorlands. Beyond this was a cross-path that
led to the outbarns and farm stables--a path bordered by thick bushes and which skirted a fence
in the rear of the manor house itself. Here he intended to tie his steed and there he would
mount him again should his mission fail.

The dull winter sky had already heralded the dusk--it was near four o'clock in the afternoon--when
he passed some hayricks where a group of negroes were at work. One or two raised their heads
and then, as if reassured, resumed their tasks. This encouraged him to push on the nearer--he
had evidently been mistaken for one of the many tradespeople seeking his father's overseer,
either to sell tools or buy produce.

Tying the horse close to the fence--so close that it could not be seen from the house--he threw
the bundle of silks over his shoulder and struck out for the small office in the rear. Here
the business of the estate was transacted, and here were almost always to be found either the
overseer or one of his assistants--both of them white. These men were often changed, and his
chance, therefore, of meeting a stranger was all the more likely.

As he approached the low sill of the door which was level with the ground, and which now stood
wide open, he caught the glow of a fire and could make out the figure of a man seated at a
desk bending over a mass of papers. The man pushed back a green shade which had protected his
eyes from the glare of a lamp and peered out at him.

It was his father!

The discovery was so unexpected and had come with such suddenness--it was rarely in these later
days that the colonel was to be found here in the afternoon: he was either riding or receiving
visitors--that Harry's first thought was to shrink back out of sight, or, if discovered, to
make some excuse for his intrusion and retire. Then his mind changed and he stepped boldly
in. This was what he had come for and this was what he would face.

"I have some China silks to sell," he said in his natural tone of voice, turning his head so
that while his goods were in sight his face would be in shadow.

"Silks! I don't want any silks! Who allowed you to pass in here? Alec!" He pushed back his
chair and moved to the door. "Alec! Where the devil is Alec! He's always where I don't want him!"

"I saw no one to ask, sir," Harry replied mechanically. His father's appearance had sent a
chill through him; he would hardly have known him had he met him on the street. Not only did
he look ten years older, but the injury to his sight caused him to glance sideways at any one
he addressed, completely destroying the old fearless look in his eyes.

"You never waited to ask! You walk into my private office unannounced and--" here he turned
the lamp to see the better. "You're a sailor, aren't you?" he added fiercely--a closer view
of the intruder only heightening his wrath.

"Yes, sir--I'm a sailor," replied Harry simply, his voice dying in his throat as he summed
up the changes that the years had wrought in the colonel's once handsome, determined face--thinner,
more shrunken, his mustache and the short temple-whiskers almost white.

For an instant his father crumpled a wisp of paper he was holding between his fingers and thumb;
and then demanded sharply, but with a tone of curiosity, as if willing the intruder should
tarry a moment while he gathered the information:

"How long have you been a sailor?"

"I am just in from my last voyage." He still kept in the shadow although he saw his father
had so far failed to recognize him. The silks had been laid on a chair beside him.

"That's not what I asked you. How long have you been a sailor?" He was scanning his face now
as best he could, shifting the green shade that he might see the better.

"I went to sea three years ago."

"Three years, eh? Where did you go?"

The tone of curiosity had increased. Perhaps the next question would lead up to some basis
on which he could either declare himself or lay the foundation of a declaration to be made
the next day--after he had seen his mother and Alec.

"To South America. Para was my first port," he answered simply, wondering why he wanted to know.

"That's not far from Rio?" He was still looking sideways at him, but there was no wavering
in his gaze.

"No, not far--Rio was our next stopping place. We had a hard voyage and put in to--"

"Do you know a young man by the name of Rutter--slim man with dark hair and eyes?" interrupted
his father in an angry tone.

Harry started forward, his heart in his mouth, his hands upraised, his fingers opening. It
was all he could do to restrain himself. "Don't you know me, father?" was trembling on his
lips. Then something in the sound of the colonel's voice choked his utterance. Not now, he
thought, mastering his emotion--a moment more and he would tell him.

"I have heard of him, sir," he answered when he recovered his speech, straining his ears to
catch the next word.

"Heard of him, have you? So has everybody else heard of him--a worthless scoundrel who broke
his mother's heart; a man who disgraced his family--a gentleman turned brigand--a renegade
who has gone back on his blood! Tell him so if you see him! Tell him I said so; I'm his father,
and know! No--I don't want your silks--don't want anything that has to do with sailormen. I
am busy--please go away. Don't stop to bundle them up--do that outside," and he turned his
back and readjusted the shade over his eyes.

Harry's heart sank, and a cold faintness stole through his frame. He was not angry nor indignant.
He was stunned.

Without a word in reply he gathered up the silks from the chair, tucked them under his arm,
and replacing his cap stepped outside into the fast approaching twilight. Whatever the morrow
might bring forth, nothing more could be done to-day. To have thrown himself at his father's
feet would only have resulted in his being driven from the grounds by the overseer, with the
servants looking on--a humiliation he could not stand.

As he stood rolling the fabrics into a smaller compass, a gray-haired negro in the livery of
a house servant passed hurriedly and entered the door of the office. Instantly his father's
voice rang out:

"Where the devil have you been, Alec? How many times must I tell you to look after me oftener.
Don't you know I'm half blind and--No--I don't want any more wood--I want these vagabonds kept
off my grounds. Send Mr. Grant to me at once, and don't you lose sight of that man until you
have seen him to the main road. He says he is a sailor--and I've had enough of sailors, and
so has everybody else about here."

The negro bowed and backed out of the room. No answer of any kind was best when the colonel
was in one of his "tantrums."

"I reckon I hab to ask ye, sah, to quit de place--de colonel don't 'low nobody to--" he said
politely.

Harry turned his face aside and started for the fence. His first thought was to drop his bundle
and throw his arms around Alec's neck; then he realized that this would be worse than his declaring
himself to his father--he could then be accused of attempting deception by the trick of a disguise.
So he hurried on to where his horse was tied--his back to Alec, the bundle shifted to his left
shoulder that he might hide his face the better until he was out of sight of the office, the
old man stumbling on, calling after him:

"No, dat ain't de way. Yer gotter go down de main road; here, man--don't I tell yer dat ain't
de way."

Harry had now gained the fence and had already begun to loosen the reins when Alec, out of
breath and highly indignant over the refusal to carry out his warning, reached his side.

"You better come right back f'om whar ye started," the old negro puffed; "ye can't go dat way
or dey'll set de dogs on ye." Here his eyes rested on the reins and forelock. "What! you got
a horse an' you--"

Harry turned and laid his hand on the old servant's shoulder. He could hardly control his voice:

"Don't you know me, Alec? I'm Harry!"

The old man bent down, peered into Harry's eyes, and with a quick spring forward grabbed him
by both shoulders.

"You my Marse Harry!--you!" His breath was gone now, his whole body in a tremble, his eyes
bulging from his head.

"Yes, Alec, Harry! It's only the beard. Look at me! I didn't want my father to see us--that's
why I kept on."

The old servant threw up his hands and caught his young master around the neck. For some seconds
he could not speak.

"And de colonel druv ye out!" he gasped. "Oh, my Gawd! my Gawd! And ye ain't daid, and ye come
back home ag'in." He was sobbing now, his head on the exile's shoulder, Harry's arms about
him--patting his bent back. "But yer gotter go back, Marse Harry," he moaned. "He ain't 'sponsible
these days. He didn't know ye! Come 'long, son; come back wid ol' Alec; please come, Marse
Harry. Oh, Gawd! ye GOTTER come!"

"No, I'll go home to-night--another day I'll--"

"Ye ain't got no home but dis, I tell ye! Go tell him who ye is--lemme run tell him. I won't
be a minute. Oh! Marse Harry, I can't let ye go! I been dat mizzable widout ye. I ain't neber
got over lovin' ye!"

Here a voice from near the office broke out. In the dusk the two could just make out the form
of the colonel, who was evidently calling to some of his people. He was bareheaded and without
his shade.

"I've sent Alec to see him safe off the grounds. You go yourself, Mr. Grant, and follow him
into the highroad; remember that after this I hold you responsible for these prowlers."

The two had paused while the colonel was speaking, Harry, gathering the reins in his hand,
ready to vault into the saddle, and Alec, holding on to his coat-sleeves hoping still to detain
him.

"I haven't a minute more--quick, Alec, tell me how my mother is."

"She's middlin' po'ly, same's ever; got great rings under her eyes and her heart's dat heaby
makes abody cry ter look at 'er. But she ain't sick, jes' griebin' herse'f to death. Ain't
yer gwineter stop and see 'er? May be I kin git ye in de back way."

"Not now--not here. Bring her to Uncle George's house to-morrow about noon, and I will be there.
Tell her how I look, but don't tell her what my father has done. And now tell me about Miss
Kate--how long since you saw her? Is she married?"

Again the colonel's voice was heard; this time much nearer--within hailing distance. He and
the overseer were evidently approaching the fence; some of the negroes had doubtless apprised
them of the course of Harry's exit.

Alec turned quickly to face his master, and Harry, realizing that his last moment had come,
swung himself into the saddle. If Alec made any reply to his question it was lost in the clatter
of hoofs as both horse and man swept down the by-path. In another moment they had gained the
main road, the rider never breaking rein until he had reached the farm-house where he had fed
and watered his horse some hours before.

Thirty-odd miles out and back was not a long ride for a hired horse in these days over a good
turnpike with plenty of time for resting--and he had as many breathing spells as gallops, for
Harry's moods really directed his gait. Once in a while he would give him his head, the reins
lying loose, the horse picking his way in a walk. Then the bitterness of his father's words
and how undeserved they were, and how the house of cards his hopes had built up had come tumbling
down about his ears at the first point of contact would rush over him, and he would dig his
heels into the horse's flanks and send him at full gallop through the night along the pale
ribbon of a road barely discernible in the ghostly dark. When, however, Alec's sobs smote his
ear, or the white face of his mother confronted him, the animal would gradually slacken his
pace and drop into a walk.

Dominated by these emotions certain fixed resolutions at last took possession of him: He would
see his mother at once, no matter at what cost--even if he defied his father--and then he would
find his uncle. Whether he would board the next vessel heaving port and return to his work
in the mountains, or whether he would bring his uncle back from Craddock and the two, with
his own vigorous youth and new experience of the world, fight it out together as they had once
done before, depended on what St. George advised. Now that Kate's marriage was practically
decided upon, one sorrow--and his greatest--was settled forever. Any others that were in store
for him he would meet as they came.

With his mind still intent on these plans he rode at last into the open door of the small courtyard
of the livery stable and drew rein under a swinging lantern. It was past ten at night, and
the place was deserted, except by a young negro who advanced to take his horse. Tossing the
bridle aside he slipped to the ground.

"He's wet," Harry said, "but he's all right. Let him cool off gradually, and don't give him
any water until he gets dry. I'll come in to-morrow and pay your people what I owe them."

The negro curry-combed his fingers down the horse's flanks as if to assure himself of his condition,
and in the movement brought his face under the glare of the overhead light.

Harry grabbed him by the shoulder and swung him round.

"Todd--you rascal! What are you doing here? Why are you not down on the Eastern Shore?" His
astonishment was so intense that for an instant he could not realize he had the right man.

The negro drew back. He was no runaway slave, and he didn't intend to be taken for one--certainly
not by a man as rough and suspicious looking as the one before him.

"How you know my name, man?" He was nervous and scared half out of his wits. More than one
negro had been shanghaied in that way and smuggled off to sea.

"Know you! I'd know you among a thousand. Have you, too, deserted your master?" He still held
him firmly by the collar of his coat, his voice rising with his wrath. "Why have you left him?
Answer me."

For an instant the negro hesitated, leaned forward, and then with a burst of joy end out:

"You ain't!--Fo' Gawd it is! Dat beard on ye, Marse Harry, done fool me--but you is him fo'
sho. Gor-a-mighty! ain't I glad ye ain't daid. Marse George say on'y yisterday you was either
daid or sick dat ye didn't write an'--"

"Said yesterday! Why, is he at home?"

"HOME! Lemme throw a blanket over dis hoss and tie him tell we come back. Oh, we had a heap
o' mis'ry since ye went away--a heap o' trouble. Nothin' but trouble! You come 'long wid me--'tain't
far; des around de corner. I'll show ye sompin' make ye creep all over. An' it ain't gettin'
no better--gettin' wuss. Dis way, Manse Harry. You been 'cross de big water, ain't ye? Dat's
what I heared. Aunt Jemima been mighty good, but we can't go on dis way much longer."

Still talking, forging ahead in the darkness through the narrow street choked with horseless
drays, Todd swung into a dingy yard, mounted a flight of rickety wooden steps, and halted at
an unpainted door. Turning the knob softly he beckoned silently to Harry, and the two stepped
into a small room lighted by a low lamp placed on the hearth, its rays falling on a cot bed
and a few chairs. Beside a cheap pine table sat Aunt Jemima, rocking noiselessly. The old woman
raised her hand in warning and put her fingers to her lips.

On the bed, with the coverlet drawn close under his chin, lay his Uncle George!

CHAPTER XXVI

Harry looked about the room in a bewildered way and then tiptoed to St. George's bed. It had
been a day of surprises, but this last had completely upset him. St. George dependent on the
charity of his old cook and without other attendant than Todd! Why had he been deserted by
everybody who loved him? Why was he not at Wesley or Craddock? Why should he be here of all
places in the world?

All these thoughts surged through his mind as he stood above the patient and watched his slow,
labored breathing. That he had been ill for some time was evident in his emaciated face and
the deep hollows into which his closed eyes were sunken.

Aunt Jemima rose and handed the intruder her chair. He sat down noiselessly beside him. Once
his uncle coughed, and in the effort drew the coverlet close about his throat, his eyes still
shut; but whether from weakness or drowsiness, Harry could not tell. Presently he shifted his
body, and moving his head on the pillow, called softly:

"Jemima?"

The old woman bent over him.

"Yes, Marse George."

"Give me a little milk--my throat troubles me."

Harry drew back into the shadow cast over one end of the cot and rear wall by the low lamp
on the hearth. Whether to slip his hand gently over his uncle's and declare himself, or whether
to wait until he dozed again and return in the morning, when he would be less tired and could
better withstand the shock of the meeting, was the question which disturbed him. And yet he
could not leave until he satisfied himself of just what ought to be done. If he left him at
all it must be for help of some kind. He leaned over and whispered in Jemima's ear:

"Has he had a doctor?"

Jemima shook her head. "He wouldn't hab none; he ain't been clean beat out till day befo' yisterday,
an' den I got skeered an'--" She stopped, leaned closer, clapped her hand over her mouth to
keep from screaming, and staggered back to her chair.

St. George raised his head from the pillow and stared into the shadows.

"Who is talking? I heard somebody speak? Jemima--you haven't disobeyed me, have you?"

Harry stepped noiselessly to the bedside and laid his fingers on the sick man's wrist:

"Uncle George," he said gently.

Temple lowered his head as if to focus his gaze.

"Yes, there is some one!" he cried in a stronger voice. "Who are you, sir?--not a doctor, are
you? I didn't send for you!--I don't want any doctor, I told my servant so. Jemima!--Todd!--why
do you--"

Harry tightened his grasp on the emaciated wrist. "No, Uncle George, it's Harry! I'm just back."

"What did he say, Todd? Harry!--Harry! Did he say he was Harry, or am I losing my mind?"

In his eagerness to understand he lifted himself to a sitting posture, his eyes wandering uneasily
over the speaker's body, resting on his head--on his shoulders, arms, and hands--as if trying
to fix his mind on something which constantly baffled him.

Harry continued to pat his wrist soothingly.

"Yes, it's Harry, Uncle George," he answered. "But don't talk--lie down. I'm all right--I got
in yesterday and have been looking for you everywhere. Pawson told me you were at Wesley. I
found Todd a few minutes ago by the merest accident, and he brought me here. No, you must lie
down--let me help--rest yourself on me--so." He was as tender with him as if he had been his
own mother.

The sick man shook himself free--he was stronger than Harry thought. He was convinced now that
there was some trick being played upon him--one Jemima in her anxiety had devised.

"How dare you, sir, lie to me like that! Who asked you to come here? Todd--send this fellow
from the room!"

Harry drew back out of his uncle's vision and carefully watched the invalid. St. George's mind
was evidently unhinged and it would be better not to thwart him.

Todd crept up. He had seen his master like this once before and had had all he could do to
keep him in bed.

"Dat ain't no doctor, Marse George," he pleaded, his voice trembling. "Dat's Marse Harry come
back agin alive. It's de hair on his face make him look dat way; dat fool me too. It's Marse
Harry, fo' sho'--I fotch him yere myse'f. He's jes' come from de big ship."

St. George twisted his head, looked long and earnestly into Harry's face, and with a sudden
cry of joy stretched out his hand and motioned him nearer. Harry sank to his knees beside the
bed. St. George curved one arm about his neck, drew him tightly to his breast as he would a
woman, and fell back upon the pillow with Harry's head next his own. There the two lay still,
St. George's eyes half closed, thick sobs stifling his utterance, the tears streaming down
his pale cheeks; his thin white fingers caressing the brown hair of the boy he loved. At last,
with a heavy, indrawn sigh, not of grief, but of joy, he muttered:

"It's true, isn't it, my son?"

Harry hugged him the tighter in answer.

"And you are home for good?"

Again the pressure. "Yes, but don't talk, you must go to sleep. I won't leave you." His own
tears were choking him now.

Then, after a long pause, releasing his grasp: "I did not know how weak I was.... Maybe I had
better not talk.... Don't stay. Come to-morrow and tell me about it.... There is no bed for
you here... I am sorry ... but you must go away--you couldn't be comfortable.... Todd--"

The darky started forward--both he and Aunt Jemima were crying:

"Yes, Marse George."

"Take the lamp and light Mr. Rutter downstairs. To-morrow--to-morrow, Harry.... My God--think
of it!--Harry home! Harry home! My Harry home!" and he turned his face to the wall.

On the way back--first to the stable, where he found that the horse had been properly cared
for and his bill ready and then to his lodgings,--Todd told him the story of what had happened:
At first his master had firmly intended going to the Eastern Shore--and for a long stay--for
he had ordered his own and Todd's trunks packed with everything they both owned in the way
of clothes. On the next day, however--the day before the boat left--Mr. Temple had made a visit
to Jemima to bid her good-by, where he learned that her white lodger had decamped between suns,
leaving two months board unpaid. In the effort to find this man, or compel his employer to
pay his bill, out of some wages still due him--in both of which he failed--his master had missed
the boat and they were obliged to wait another week. During this interim, not wishing to return
to Pawson, and being as he said very comfortable where he was with his two servants to wait
upon him, and the place as clean as a pin--his master had moved his own and Todd's trunk from
the steamboat warehouse where they had been stored and had had them brought to Jemima's. Two
days later--whether from exposure in tramping the streets in his efforts to collect the old
woman's bill, or whether the change of lodgings had affected him--he was taken down with a
chill and had been in bed ever since. With this situation staring both Jemima and himself in
the face--for neither she nor Mr. Temple had much money left--Todd had appealed to Gadgem--(he
being the only man in his experience who could always produce a roll of bills when everybody
else failed)--who took him to the stableman whose accounts he collected--and who had once bought
one of St. George's saddles--and who then and there hired Todd as night attendant. His wages,
added to what Jemima could earn over her tubs, had kept the three alive. All this had taken
place four weeks or more ago.

None of all this, he assured Harry, had he told Gadgem or anybody else, his master's positive
directions being to keep his abode and his condition a secret from everybody. All the collector
knew was that Mr. Temple being too poor to take Todd with him, had left him behind to shift
for himself until he could send for him. All the neighborhood knew, to quote Todd's own hilarious
chuckle, was that "Miss Jemima Johnsing had two mo' boa'ders; one a sick man dat had los' his
job an' de udder a yaller nigger who sot up nights watchin' de hosses eat dere haids off."

Since that time his master had had various ups and downs, but although he was still weak he
was very much stronger than he had been any time since he had taken to his bed. Only once had
he been delirious; then he talked ramblingly about Miss Kate and Marse Harry. This had so scared
Aunt Jemima that she had determined to go to Mammy Henny and have her tell Miss Kate, so he
could get a doctor--something he had positively forbidden her to do, but he grew so much better
the next day that she had given it up; since that time his mind had not again given way. All
he wanted now, so Todd concluded, was a good soup and "a drap o' sumpin warmin'--an' he'd pull
thu'. But dere warn't no use tryin' ter git him to take it 'cause all he would eat was taters
an' corn pone an' milk--an' sich like, 'cause he said dere warn't money 'nough fer de three--"
whereupon Todd turned his head away and caught his breath, and then tried to pass it off as
an unbidden choke--none of which subterfuges deceived Harry in the least.

When the two arrived off the dimly burning lantern--it was past ten o'clock--and pushed in
the door of the Sailors' House, Todd received another shock--one that sent his eyes bulging
from his head. That Marse Harry Rutter, who was always a law unto himself, should grow a beard
and wear rough clothes, was to be expected--"Dem Rutters was allus dat way--do jes's dey mineter--"
but that the most elegant young man of his day "ob de fustest quality," should take up his
quarters in a low sailors' retreat, and be looked upon by the men gathered under the swinging
lamp around a card table--(some of whom greeted Harry familiarly)--as one of their own kind,
completely staggered him.

The pedler was particularly gracious--so much so that when he learned that Harry was leaving
for good, and had come to get his belongings--he jumped up and insisted on helping--at which
Harry laughed and assented, and as a further mark of his appreciation presented him with the
now useless silks, in addition to the money he gave him--an act of generosity which formed
the sole topic of conversation in the resort for weeks thereafter.

Board and lodging paid, the procession took up its return march: Harry in front, Todd, still
dazed and still at sea as to the meaning of it all, following behind; the pedler between with
Harry's heavy coat, blankets, etc.--all purchased since his shipwreck--the party threading
the choked-up street until they reached the dingy yard, where the pedler dumped his pack and
withdrew, while the darky stowed his load in the basement. This done, the two tiptoed once
more up the stairs to where Aunt Jemima awaited them, St. George having fallen asleep.

Beckoning the old woman away from the bedroom door and into the far corner of the small hall,
Harry unfolded to her as much of his plans for the next day as he thought she ought to know.
Early in the morning--before his uncle was astir--he would betake himself to Kennedy Square;
ascertain from Pawson whether his uncle's rooms were still unoccupied, and if such were the
case--and St. George be unable to walk--would pick him up bodily, wrap him in blankets, carry
him in his own arms downstairs, place him in a carriage, and drive him to his former home where
he would again pick him up and lay him in his own bed: This would be better than a hundred
doctors--he had tried it himself when he was down with fever and knew. Aunt Jemima was to go
ahead and see that these preparations were carried out. Should Alec be able to bring his mother
to Kennedy Square in the morning, as he had instructed him to do, then there would indeed be
somebody on hand who could nurse him even better than Jemima; should his mother not be there,
Jemima would take her place. Nothing of all this, he charged her, was to be told St. George
until the hour of departure. To dwell upon the intended move might overexcite him. Then, when
everything was ready--his linen, etc., arranged--(Jemima was also to look after this)--he would
whisk him off and make him comfortable in his own bed. He would, of course, now that his uncle
wished it, keep secret his retreat; although why St. George Wilmot Temple, Esq., or any other
gentleman of his standing, should object to being taken care of by his own servants was a thing
he could not understand: Pawson, of course, need not know--nor should any outside person--not
even Gadgem if he came nosing around. To these he would merely say that Mr. Temple had seen
fit to leave home and that Mr. Temple had seen fit to return again: that was quite enough for
attorneys and collectors. To all the others he would keep his counsel, until St. George himself
made confession, which he was pretty sure he would do at the first opportunity.

This decided upon he bade Jemima good-night, gave her explicit directions to call him, should
his uncle awake (her own room opened out of St. George's) spread his blanket in the cramped
hall outside the sick man's door--he had not roughed it on shipboard and in the wilderness
all these years without knowing something of the soft side of a plank--and throwing his heavy
ship's coat over him fell fast asleep.

CHAPTER XXVII

When the first glimmer of the gray dawn stole through the small window at the end of the narrow
hall, and laid its chilled fingers on Harry's upturned face, it found him still asleep. His
ride to Moorlands and back--his muscles unused for months to the exercise--had tired him. The
trials of the day, too, those with his father and his Uncle George, had tired him the more--and
so he had slept on as a child sleeps--as a perfectly healthy man sleeps--both mind and body
drinking in the ozone of a new courage and a new hope.

With the first ray of the joyous sun riding full tilt across his face, he opened his eyes,
threw off the cloak, and sprang to his feet. For an instant he looked wonderingly about as
if in doubt whether to call the watch or begin the hunt for his cattle. Then the pine door
caught his eye and the low, measured breathing of his uncle fell upon his ear, and with a quick
lift of his arms, his strong hands thumping his broad chest, he stretched himself to his full
height: he had work to do, and he must begin at once.

Aunt Jemima was already at her duties. She had tiptoed past his sleeping body an hour before,
and after listening to St. George's breathing had plunged into her tubs; the cat's cradle in
the dingy court-yard being already gay with various colored fragments, including Harry's red
flannel shirts which Todd had found in a paper parcel, and which the old woman had pounced
upon at sight. She insisted on making him a cup of coffee, but he had no time for such luxuries.
He would keep on, he said, to Kennedy Square, find Pawson, ascertain if St. George's old rooms
were still unoccupied; notify him of Mr. Temple's return; have his bed made and fires properly
lighted; stop at the livery stable, wake up Todd, if that darky had overslept himself--quite
natural when he had been up almost all night--engage a carriage to be at Jemima's at four o'clock,
and then return to get everything ready for the picking-up-and-carrying-downstairs process.

And all this he did do; and all this he told Jemima he had done when he swung into the court-yard
an hour later, a spring to his heels and a cheery note in his voice that had not been his for
years. The reaction that hope brings to youth had set in. He was alive and at home; his Uncle
George was where he could get his hands on him--in a minute--by the mounting of the stairs;
and Alec and his mother within reach!

And the same glad song was in his heart when he opened his uncle's door after he had swallowed
his coffee--Jemima had it ready for him this time--and thrusting in his head cried out:

"We are going to get you out of here, Uncle George!" This with a laugh--one of his old contagious
laughs that was music in the sick man's ears.

"When?" asked the invalid, his face radiant. He had been awake an hour wondering what it all
meant. He had even thought of calling to Jemima to reassure himself that it was not a dream,
until he heard her over her tubs and refrained from disturbing her.

"Oh, pretty soon! I have just come from Pawson's. Fogbin hasn't put in an appearance and there's
nobody in the rooms and hasn't been anybody there since you left. He can't understand it, nor
can I--and I don't want to. I have ordered the bed made and a fire started in both the chamber
and the old dining-room, and if anybody objects he has got to say so to me, and I am a very
uncomfortable person to say some kinds of things to nowadays. So up you get when the time comes;
and Todd and Jemima are to go too. I've got money enough, anyhow, to begin on. Aunt Jemima
says you had a good night and it won't be long now before you are yourself again."

The radiant smile on the sick man's face blossomed into a laugh: "Yes--the best night that
I have had since I was taken ill, and--Where did you sleep, my son?"

"Me!--Oh, I had a fine time--long, well-ventilated room with two windows and private staircase;
nice pine bedstead--very comfortable place for this part of the town."

St. George looked at him and his eyes filled. His mind was neither on his own questions nor
on Harry's answers.

"Get a chair, Harry, and sit by me so I can look at you closer. How fine and strong you are
my son--not like your father--you're like your mother. And you've broadened out--mentally as
well as physically. Pretty hard I tell you to spoil a gentleman--more difficult still to spoil
a Rutter. But you must get that beard off--it isn't becoming to you, and then somebody might
think you disguised yourself on purpose. I didn't know you at first, neither did Jemima--and
you don't want anybody else to make that kind of a mistake."

"My father did, yesterday--" Harry rejoined quietly, dropping into Jemima's chair.

St. George half raised himself from his bed: "You have seen him?"

"Yes--and I wish I hadn't. But I hunted everywhere for you and then got a horse and rode out
home. He didn't know me--that is, I'm pretty sure he didn't--but he cursed me all the same.
My mother and old Alec, I hope, will come in to-day--but father's chapter is closed forever.
I have been a fool to hope for anything else."

"Drove you out! Oh, no--NO! Harry! Impossible!"

"But he did--" and then followed an account of all the wanderer had passed through from the
time he had set foot on shore to the moment of meeting Todd and himself.

For some minutes St. George lay staring at the ceiling. It was all a horrid, nightmare to him.
Talbot deserved nothing but contempt and he would get it so far as he was concerned. He agreed
with Harry that all reconciliation was now a thing of the past; the only solution possible
was that Talbot was out of his senses--the affair having undermined his reason. He had heard
of such cases and had doubted them--he was convinced now that they could be true. His answer,
therefore, to Harry's next question--one about his lost sweetheart--was given with a certain
hesitation. As long as the memory of Rutter's curses rankled within him all reference to Kate's
affairs--even the little he knew himself--must be made with some circumspection. There was
no hope in that direction either, but he did not want to tell him so outright; nor did he want
to dwell too long upon the subject.

"And I suppose Kate is married by this time, Uncle George," Harry said at last in a casual
tone, "is she not?" (He had been leading up to it rather skilfully, but there had been no doubt
in his uncle's mind as to his intention.) "I saw the house lighted up, night before last when
I passed, and a lot of people about, so I thought it might be either the wedding or the reception."
The question had left his lips as one shoots an arrow in the dark--hit or miss--as if he did
not care which. He too realized that this was no time to open wounds, certainly not in his
uncle's heart; and yet he could wait no longer.

"No--I don't think the wedding has taken place," St. George replied vaguely. "The servants
would know if it had--they know everything--and Aunt Jemima would be the first to have told
me. The house being lighted up is no evidence. They have been giving a series of entertainments
this winter and there were more to come when I last saw Kate, which was one night at Richard
Horn's. But let us close that chapter too, my boy. You and I will take a new lease of life
from now on. You have already put fresh blood into my veins--I haven't felt so well for weeks.
Now tell me about yourself. Your last letter reached me six months ago, if I remember right.
You were then in Rio and were going up into the mountains. Did you go?"

"Yes--up into the Rio Abaste country where they had discovered diamonds as big as hens' eggs--one
had been sold for nearly a quarter of a million dollars--and everybody was crazy. I didn't
find any diamonds nor anything else but starvation, so I herded cattle, that being the only
thing I knew anything about--how to ride--and slept out on the lowlands sometimes under a native
mat and sometimes under the kindly stars. Then we had a revolution and cattle raids, and one
night I came pretty near being chewed up by a puma--and so it went. I made a little money in
rawhides after I got to know the natives, and I'm going back to make some more; and you are
going with me when we get things straightened out. I wouldn't have come home except that I
heard you had been turned out neck and crop from Kennedy Square. One of Mr. Seymour's clerks
stopped in Rio on his way to the River Plate and did some business with an English agent whom
I met afterward at a hacienda, and who told me about you when he learned I was from Kennedy
Square. And when I think of it all, Uncle George, and what you have suffered on account of
me!"--Here his voice faltered. "No!--I won't talk about it--I can't. I have spent too many
sleepless nights over it: I have been hungry and half dead, but I have kept on--and I am not
through: I'll pull out yet and put you on your feet once more if I live!"

St. George laid his hand tenderly on the young man's wrist. He knew how the boy felt about
it. That was one of the things he loved him for.

"And so you started home when you heard it," he went on, clearing his throat. "That was just
like you, you dear fellow! And you haven't come home an hour too soon. I should have been measured
for a pine coffin in another week." The choke was quite in evidence now. "You see, I really
couldn't go to Coston's when I thought it all over. I had made up my mind to go for a week
or so until I saw this place, and then I determined I would stop with Jemima. I could eke out
an existence here on what I had left and still feel like a gentleman, but I couldn't settle
down on dear Peggy Coston and be anything but a poltroon. As to my making a living at the law--that
was pure moonshine. I haven't opened a law book for twenty years and now it's too late. People
of our class"--here he looked away from his companion and talked straight at the foot of the
bed--"People of our class my boy," he repeated slowly--"when they reach the neck and crop period
you spoke of, are at the end of their rope. There are then but two things left--either to become
the inmate of a poorhouse or to become a sponge. I prefer this bare room as a happy medium,
and I am content to stay where I am as long as we three can keep body and soul together. There
is--so Pawson told me before I left my house--a little money coming in from a ground rent--a
few months off, perhaps, but more than enough to pay Todd back--he gives Jemima every cent
of his wages--and when this does come in and I can get out once more, I'm going to order my
life so I can make a respectable showing of some kind."

He paused for a moment, fastened his gaze again on Harry, and continued:

"As to my going back to Pawson's, I am not altogether sure that that is the wisest thing to
do. I may have to leave again as soon as I get comfortably settled in my bed. I turned out
at his bidding before and may have to turn again when he says the word. So don't kindle too
many fires with Pawson's wood--I hadn't a log to my name when I left--or it may warm somebody's
else's shins besides mine," and a merry twinkle shone in his eyes.

Harry burst out laughing.

"Wood or no wood, Uncle George, I'm going to be landlord now--Pawson can move out and graze
his cattle somewhere else. I'm going to take charge of the hut and stock and the pack mules
and provisions--and with a gun, if necessary--" and he levelled an imaginary fowling-piece
with a boyish gesture.

"Don't you try to move anybody without an order of the court!" cried St. George, joining in
the merriment. "With that mortgage hanging over everything and Gorsuch and your father cudgelling
their brains to foreclose it, you won't have a ghost of a chance. Come to think of it, however,
I might help--for a few weeks' expenses, at least. How would this do?" Here he had all he could
do to straighten his face: "'Attention now--Hats off in the court-room. For sale or hire! Immediate
delivery. One first-class gentleman, in reasonable repair. Could be made useful in opening
and shutting doors, or in dancing attendance upon children under one year of age, or in keeping
flies from bedridden folk. Apply, and so forth,' Gadgem could fix it. He has done the most
marvellous things in the last year or two--extraordinary, really! Ask Todd about it some time--he'll
tell you."

They were both roaring with laughter, St. George so buoyed up by the contagious spirit of the
young fellow that he insisted on getting out of bed and sitting in Aunt Jemima's rocking chair
with a blanket across his knees.

All the morning did this happy talk go on:--the joyous unconfined talk of two men who had hungered
and thirsted for each other through weary bitter days and nights, and whose coming together
was like the mingling of two streams long kept apart, and now one great river flowing to a
common outlet and a common good.

And not only did their talk cover the whole range of Harry's experiences from the time he left
the ship for his sojourn in the hill country and the mountains beyond, and all of St. George's
haps and mishaps, with every single transaction of Gadgem and Pawson--loving cup, dogs and
all--but when their own personal news was exhausted they both fell back on their friends, such
as Richard Horn and old Judge Pancoast; when he had seen Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Latrobe--yes,
and what of Mr. Poe--had he written any more?--and were his habits any better?--etc., etc.

"I have seen Mr. Poe several times since that unfortunate dinner, Harry; the last time when
he was good enough to call upon me on his way to Richmond. He was then particularly himself.
You would not have known him--grave, dignified, perfectly dressed--charming, delightful. He
came in quite late--indeed I was going to bed when I heard his knock and, Todd being out, I
opened the door myself. There was some of that Black Warrior left, and I brought out the decanter,
but he shook his head courteously and continued his talk. He asked after you. Wonderful man,
Harry--a man you never forget once you know him."

St. George dragged the pine table nearer his chair and moistened his lips with the glass of
milk which Jemima had set beside him. Then he went on:

"You remember Judge Giles, do you not? Lives here on St. Paul Street--yes--of course you do--for
he is a great friend of your father's and you must have met him repeatedly at Moorlands. Well,
one day at the club he told me the most extraordinary story about Mr. Poe--this was some time
after you'd gone. It seems that the judge was at work in his study late one snowy night when
his doorbell sounded. Outside stood a man with his coat buttoned close about his throat--evidently
a gentleman--who asked him politely for a sheet of paper and a pen. You know the judge, and
how kind and considerate he is. Well, of course he asked him in, drew out a chair at his desk
and stepped into the next room to leave him undisturbed. After a time, not hearing him move,
he looked in and to his surprise the stranger had disappeared. On the desk lay a sheet of paper
on which was written three verses of a poem. It was his 'Bells.' The judge has had them framed,
so I hear. There was enough snow on the ground to bring out the cutters, and Poe had the rhythm
of the bells ringing in his head and being afraid he would forget it he pulled the judge's
doorbell. I wish he'd rung mine. I must get the poem for you, Harry--it's as famous now as
'The Raven.' Richard, I hear, reads it so that you can distinguish the sound of each bell."

"Well, he taught me a lesson," said Harry, tucking the blanket close around his uncle's knees--"one
I have never forgotten, and never will. He sent me to bed a wreck, I remember, but I got up
the next morning with a new mast in me and all my pumps working."

"You mean--" and St. George smiled meaningly and tossed his hand up as if emptying a glass.

"Yes--just that--" rejoined Harry with a nod. "It's so hot out where I have been that a glass
of native rum is as bad as a snake bite and everybody except a native leaves it alone. But
if I had gone to the North Pole instead of the equator I would have done the same. Men like
you and father, and Mr. Richard Horn and Mr. Kennedy, who have been brought up on moderation,
may feel as they choose about it, but I'm going to let it alone. It's the devil when it gets
into your blood and mine's not made for it. I'd like to thank Mr. Poe if I dared, which I wouldn't,
of course, if I ever saw him, for what he did for me. I wouldn't be surprised if he would give
a good deal himself to do the same--or has he pulled out?"

"He never has pulled in, Harry--not continuously. Richard has the right of it. Poe is a man
pursued by a devil and lives always on the watch to prevent the fiend from getting the best
of him. Months at a time he wins and then there comes a day when the devil gets on top. He
says himself--he told me this the last time I saw him--that he really lives a life devoted
to his literary work; that he shuts himself up from everybody; and that the desire for society
only comes upon him when he's excited by drink. Then, and only then, does he go among his fellows.
There is some truth in that, my son, for as long as I have known him I have never seen him
in his cups except that one night at my house. A courteous, well-bred gentleman, my boy--most
punctilious about all his obligations and very honest about his failings. All he said to me
the next day when he sobered up--I kept him all that night, you remember--was: 'I was miserably
weak and inexcusably drunk last night, Mr. Temple. If that was all it would make no difference;
I have been very drunk before, and I will be very drunk again; but in addition to my being
drunk I insulted you and your friends and ruined your dinner. That makes every difference.
Don't let it cause a break between us. Let me come again. And now please brush it from your
mind. If you knew how I suffer over this fiend who tortures and gloats over me you'd only have
the greatest pity for me, in your heart.' Then he wrung my hand and left the house."

"Well, that's all any of us could do," sighed Harry, leaning back in his chair, his eyes on
the ceiling. "It makes some difference, however, of whom you ask forgiveness. I've been willing
to say the same kind of thing to my father ever since my affair with Mr. Willits, but it would
have fallen on deaf ears. I had another trial at it yesterday, and you know what happened."

"I don't think your father knew you, Harry," protested St. George, with a negative wave of
his hand.

"I hope he didn't--I shouldn't like to think he did. But, by heaven! it broke my heart to see
him, Uncle George. You would hardly know him. Even his voice has changed and the shade over
his eyes and the way he twists his head when he looks at you really gave me a creepy feeling,"
and the young man passed his fingers across his own eyes as if to shut out some hideous object.

"Was he looking straight at you when he ordered you from the room?"

"Straight as he could."

"Well, let us try and think it was the beard. And that reminds me, son, that it's got to come
off, and right away. When Todd comes in he'll find my razors and--"

"No--I'll look up a barber."

"Not down in this part of the town," exclaimed St. George with a suggestive grimace.

"No--I'll go up to Guy's. There used to be an old negro there who looked after us young fellows
when our beards began to sprout. He'll take care of it all right. While I'm out I'll stop and
send Todd back. I'm going to end his apprenticeship to-day, and so he'll help you dress. Nothing
like getting into your clothes when you're well enough to get out of bed; I've done it more
than once," and with a pat on his uncle's shoulder and the readjustment of the blanket, he
closed the door behind him and left the room.

"Everything is working fine, auntie," he cried gaily as he passed the old woman who was hanging
out the last of her wash. "I'll be back in an hour. Don't tell him yet--" and he strode out
of the yard on his way uptown.

CHAPTER XXVIII

Intruders of all kinds had thrust their heads between the dripping, slightly moist, and wholly
dry installments of Aunt Jemima's Monday wash, and each and every one had been assailed by
a vocabulary hurled at them through the creaky gate, and as far out as the street--peddlers;
beggars; tramps; loose darkies with no visible means of support, who had smelt the cooking
in the air--even goats with an acquired taste for stocking legs and window curtains--all of
whom had either been invited out, whirled out, or thrown out, dependent upon the damage inflicted,
the size of the favors asked, or the length of space intervening between Jemima's right arm
and their backs. In all of these instances the old cook had been the broom and the intruders
the dust. Being an expert in its use the intruders had succumbed before they had gotten through
their first sentence. In the case of the goat even that privilege was denied him; it was the
handle and not the brush-part which ended the argument. To see Aunt Jemima get rid of a goat
in one whack and two jumps was not only a lesson in condensed conversation, but furnished a
sight one rarely forgot--the goat never!

This morning the situation was reversed. It was Aunt Jemima who came flying upstairs, her eyes
popping from her head, her plump hands flattened against her big, heaving bosom, her breath
gone in the effort to tell her dreadful news before she should drop dead.

"Marse George! who d'ye think's downstairs?" she gasped, bursting in the door of his bedroom,
without even the customary tap. "Oh, bless Gawd! dat you'se outen dat bed! and dressed and
tryin' yo' po' legs about the room. He's comin' up. Got a man wid him I ain't neber see befo'.
Says he's a-lookin' fer somebody! Git in de closet an' I'll tell him you'se out an' den I'll
run an' watch for Marse Harry at de gate. Oh, I doan' like dis yere bus'ness," and she began
to wring her hands.

St. George, who had been listening to the old woman with mingled feelings of wonder and curiosity,
raised his hand to silence her. Whether she had gone daft or was more than usually excited
he could not for the moment decide.

"Get your breath, Jemima, and tell me what you're talking about. Who's downstairs?"

"Ain't I jes' don' tol' yer? Got a look on him make ye shiver all over; says he's gwineter
s'arch de house. He's got a constable wid him--dat is, he's got a man dat looks like a constable,
an'--"

St. George laid his hands on the old woman's shoulders, and turned her about.

"Hush your racket this instant, and tell me who is downstairs?"

"Marse Talbot Rutter," she wheezed; "come f'om de country--got mud all ober his boots."

"Mr. Harry's father?"

Aunt Jemima choked and nodded: there was no breath left for more.

"Who did he ask for?" St. George was calm enough now.

"Didn't ask fer nobody; he say, 'I'm lookin' fer a man dat come in yere las' night.' I see
he didn't know me an' I neber let on. Den he say, 'Hab you got any boa'ders yere?' an' I say,
'I got one,' an' den he 'tempted ter pass me an' I say, 'Wait a minute 'til I see ef he's outen
de bed.' Now, what's I gwineter do? He doan' mean no good to Marse Harry an' he'll dribe him
'way ag'in, an' he jes' come back an' you gittin' well a-lovin' of him--an'--"

An uncertain step was heard in the hall.

"Dat's him," Jemima whispered hoarsely, behind her hand, "what'll I do? Doan' let him come
in. I'll--"

