"No indeed, something very different. It is done on paper. You have nothing to do but put some
money down, and you can win two or three times as much in no time."

"And lose four times, I suppose?"

"There's no losing about it;" said Jost confidently, "You're sure to win in the end, if you
keep on long enough. It doesn't signify if you do lose a little at first--you can afford to wait."

"I think my trade is surer of winning;" said Dietrich.

"Oh yes, sure enough!" said Jost scornfully. "It is a pretty sight to see a fellow like you,
sitting there year after year on the saddler's bench, scraping all the skin off his hands;
and with all the income you have, too! why in ten years you won't have as much as will build
you a house such as you want, and it would take ten years more to become a gentleman; and she'd
like it a great deal better to have something nice now, and not wait till she is fifty years old."

Dietrich was red with anger.

"What business is it of yours to be forever thinking and talking about her?" he blazed out.
"You have no concern with her whatever; just keep yourself to what you're fit for."

"Why do go on as you do?" asked Jost with a knowing wink. "Do you suppose it never enters anybody's
head to ask why you keep on working and delving as if you liked it? Can't we guess who you're
doing it all for?"

"And it's not at all out of the way to be thinking about her, either," interposed Blasi, "there's
another ready enough to do that if there were any chance for him," and he winked significantly
at Jost. Jost took no notice of the insinuation, but went on, addressing himself to Dietrich.

"There's no danger for you in this plan. We will share losses and gains alike, and if we do
not like it we can leave off when ever we choose. But I don't see why we shouldn't like it,
when we can earn so much with so little trouble, and without working from morning till night.
There goes somebody now, who has all he wants, I should like to be in his place!"

A wagon was rattling by as he spoke, and its occupant was urging the galloping horse faster
and faster along the road.

"That's the doctor," said Dietrich, looking out; "he has had to work hard enough and is still
at it. He must be going to visit a very sick patient; he would not be driving at that rate
for anything else. It is late for the old gentleman to be out."

"Work!" said Jost, "well, I speak for that kind of work; sitting in a chaise behind a horse.
It's another part of speech to have to work with one's hands, as we do."

"The doctor has to work with his hands too, I'm sure of that. And besides, we have our evenings
to ourselves, while he may be kept at it till eleven o'clock at night, as he is this evening,
and later."

"Oh drop all this stupid talk and give us an answer; yes or no. Will you be a fool and go on
pricking your fingers over your work, or will you join me and have things comfortable without
working at all? Anybody but you would be grateful to me for the chance I offer you. I came
to you with it because of our old friendship. I know plenty of fellows who would jump at the
chance. You can think it over till tomorrow, and then I'm sure you'll be glad to accept. I'll
meet you here to-morrow evening, and bring some one with me who will explain it all clearly."

Dietrich agreed to think about it till to-morrow, and now, in high good-humor and increasing
confidence in the coming good-fortune, he helped Blasi and Jost to empty the bowl, in a toast
to the success of their new projects.

It was Veronica's habit to work on her embroidery for some time after going up to her bedroom,
and this evening she was so much interested in her work, that she did not observe the flight
of time, until she heard the clock strike one. She put by her sewing, and hastened to prepare
for bed, as she must be up and stirring again by five o'clock. Presently she heard the outer
door opened softly, and then closed from the inside. She blew out her light and gently opened
her bed-room door. The moon lighted up the passageway with a faint beam. Some one came stealing
up the staircase with noiseless steps. She saw that it was Dietrich. He went cautiously into
his room and closed his door.

Veronica shut her door, and sat down upon her bed. All the blood seemed to rush to her heart
and she could not stir. She knew in a moment that Dietrich, whom she had believed to be asleep
long ago, had been visiting in secret the hated Rehbock. She sat some minutes motionless on
her bed, in a kind of dull pain. Then she arose slowly, lighted her lamp again, took out her
work and with nervous fingers drove on her needle, which flew faster and faster through the
white cloth. She did not sleep at all that night.

Nor did Dietrich fall asleep easily. His thoughts were busy and he could not come to any decision.
What should he do?

If he could become rich at once, without working any more, why shouldn't he do it? Would it
be best to consult his mother? No, that would upset everything. He was sure that his mother
was too firmly wedded to the old ideas about ways of getting a living, to listen to any new-fangled
methods of making money without work.

And Veronica?

Certainly not Veronica, who valued work above everything, and who indeed loved it so well,
that she could not imagine that any one should ever wish to escape it.

But if he were successful, both his mother and Veronica would profit by his good fortune as
much as himself. Why couldn't he go on with his own plans in his own way? Why need he ask leave
of Veronica?

Before he slept, Dietrich had decided to meet Jost the next evening, and close with his offer.

When Gertrude came down stairs early in the morning, she found the breakfast ready, and Veronica
dressed to go out.

"Wait just a moment," said the mother, "Dietrich will be down directly; I hear him coming."

"I must be off," replied Veronica. She went towards the door, but turned before going out.
Her cheeks were flaming.

"Mother," she said, and her voice trembled, "in God's name, forbid him to go to that dreadful
place. He did not come home till one o'clock last night." And she vanished. Gertrude gazed
after her in surprise.

When Dietrich came down, he asked in his usual bright fashion, after Veronica, and when his
mother with some anxiety told him what the girl had said, he made his explanation with such
a frank, unembarrassed manner, that her fears were quieted; for it was plain that he had nothing
upon his conscience. He said that he knew his mother would approve of his helping a friend
in need, and not the less if in so doing he should also help himself. It was a scheme of this
kind that he had been talking over, the night before. Jost had to work very hard to make both
ends meet, and Dietrich thought that if by putting some money into his scheme, he could help
his old acquaintance to more profit with less labor, and at the same time gain by it himself,
his mother would be the last to blame him.

Gertrude was a soft-hearted woman. She answered her son that if there was nothing wrong about
this business, it was certainly a good thing to help Jost, who had received nothing from his
father, not even tools for his trade, and who had seemed to have everything against him.

"With you it was very different, my boy," she said in conclusion. "Your father left you an
excellent business, and if you continue to work as you have done, you will be very well off
in a few years. How kindly the good God has dealt with us, my son! We may hope for many happy
days together!"

He agreed with her cordially, but he thought it as well not to unfold his plans to her any
farther. He said to himself that he was not going to do anything wrong, certainly not; but
his mother's ideas were a little old-fashioned, and she wouldn't understand his schemes. He
would surprise her with his success.

CHAPTER VI.

LAME SABINA GIVES GOOD ADVICE.

Veronica's teacher, Sabina, had been a hunchback from her birth, and had become lame when still
young; she had used crutches since she was twenty years old. Like many persons who suffer under
physical disabilities, she had clever penetrating eyes, and on this day, she often raised them
from the work which she was pursuing with indefatigable industry, to glance at her pupil, who
sat opposite. Veronica was at work on the same piece which she had had at home on the previous
night, that night which she had passed in such sad forbodings.

After many inquiring glances, Sabina at last said thoughtfully:

"I'm puzzled about you, Veronica. That piece of work you are upon, is wonderfully well done;
every stitch is perfectly even, the cloth and the silk are as white as snow; yet you must have
done most of it at night, for yesterday afternoon you were not nearly so far along. Whatever
you put your hand to, succeeds. Yet your eyebrows grow more and more scowling every day, and
your eyes blaze out as if there were a thunder-storm about. What ails you, child? You are the
handsomest girl in all the country round when you have a pleasant expression; and you are as
tall and straight as a young fir-tree. Don't you know that?"

"What good does it do me?" asked Veronica, and scowled worse than ever.

"What good? if you did not have it you would know what it is worth," replied Sabina, quickly.
"I can tell you that. Now smooth your forehead, Veronica, and listen to me. I will tell you
something that will make you feel better and happier. An Industrial School has been established
in Fohrensee and it is proposed to connect with it a work-room for women. They want a teacher
and superintendent, and have offered me the place, but I am not strong enough for it. I have
told them that you are fully equal to me in skill and knowledge of the work, and a hundred
times my superior in freshness and strength and executive ability. There is no doubt that the
place is at your disposal. You can lead the life of a lady, Veronica. Your fortune is made."

For the first time since Sabina began to speak, Veronica raised her eyes from her work. She
shook her head sadly and said,

"Not my fortune."

"'Not my fortune!'" repeated Sabina angrily, "when I tell you this place is yours! Your fortune
is made."

"I cannot grasp the fortune that is offered me," said the girl, and bent over her work again.

Sabina's searching glance seemed to try to penetrate her inmost thought.

"What sort of an expression is that you are using, Veronica? Where did you learn that? I never
expected to hear such words from your lips. It is not like you. What put that into your head,
child?"

"I will tell you something of my experience, and then you will understand why I use this expression,"
said Veronica quietly. "When I was only a little girl I learned a motto which ran thus:

    'Fortune stands ready, full in sight;
     He wins, who knows to grasp it right.'

I saw that 'fortune' was something good to have, and I wanted to find out how it could be grasped.
I asked Cousin Judith, and she told me it must be grasped like everything else with our hands,
that is to say, through work. From that time forward I was eager for work as other children
are for play, and the older I grow, the more I strive for the good fortune that can be grasped
by work. Even on Sundays I often go to my room to sew, and I shut my door, for my mother does
not like to see me sew then. I work on and on, just as long as I can sit at it, even into the
night; sometimes till one and two o'clock in the morning; yet I do not find the fortune I want.
When my hands are busy, my thoughts wander where they will, and I must follow them. But they
do not lead to 'fortune,' but only farther away from it. This offer may bring me a fortune
in money and position, but that is not the fortune I want. 'Fortune' for me, means happiness."

Sabina had not lost a word of this sad story.

"Yes, yes, I understand you, Veronica," she said sympathizingly. "I know something of this
too. Judith told you the truth, but only one half the truth. Fortune is grasped by the hands,
it is true; but the Fortune which you long for, that is, Happiness, is to be gained in other
ways besides. I will tell you an instructive little story, and if you will take the trouble
to grasp it, not with your hands, but with your thoughts and understanding, you will be able
to work it out for yourself and get some profit from it. It is part of the story of my own
life. I have had so much the same experience as yours that I cannot help hoping that what I
found good for myself, may prove good for you."

"When I was about your age, Veronica, I was so unhappy that I cried myself to sleep every night.
Can you guess why? No, for one understands only the sufferings that he has himself experienced,
and cannot imagine those of others. Well, it was because I was a hunchback! I remember as if
it were yesterday, when I first came to a perception of my misfortune; when I first learned
that I was different from other children, and must remain as one apart, all my life. We were
all coming out of school one day, and a little quarrel arose between us children, and one of
them said to me in a scornful tone, 'Hold your tongue, Sabina, you're only a hunchback.' From
that day I never knew a happy moment, and I grew timid and avoided every one; if I saw any
one looking at me, I thought he was scoffing at me because I was a hunchback. I kept away from
other children, for if one of them laughed, I fancied she was laughing at my deformed shoulders.
If any stranger was kind to me, I thought that it was because my hunch had not yet been seen,
and that as soon as it was, kindness would be changed for contempt. I looked at the figure
of every one I met; all were straight except myself. I felt that I was the most miserable creature
in the world, and I saw no hope of ever being otherwise all my life long. Once one of the school
children died, and all her schoolmates walked in the funeral procession to the church. I would
not walk with them, but hid myself among the grown people; for every one was looking at the
children and I wanted to escape observation. I heard one woman say to another: 'It is lucky
the child's mother has so much to do; she will have no time to think about her sorrow, and
she will get over it the sooner,' Then it came to me like a ray of hope, that if I had work
to do, I might forget my sorrow too. I must have work. That very day I begged my mother to
let me learn to work. She was pleased, and sent me to take lessons in sewing, and I followed
it up till I could do all sorts of fine work, and had as much employment as I could wish. I
often heard people say, 'How finely Sabina is getting on!' But how do you think it was with
my spirits? Just as it is with yours now, Veronica. Oh yes, you needn't look at me so with
your great eyes. I know exactly what you are thinking. You think that my trouble never can
have been equal to yours. People always think that their own sorrows are the worst. I sat and
sewed just as you do--early and late; my work was perfect; I had no rival. I knew that it was
good, and I rejoiced over it in a half-hearted way; but what good did it do me after all? The
thought that I was a hunchback, was always in my mind. It was like a stream of troubled water
flowing through my heart; it spoiled everything. 'Always deformed, never like other girls,'
I never forgot it for a moment. So it went on till I was about twenty years old, and then came
on the trouble in my foot, and I was confined to my bed for many months. Oh! how bitterly I
suffered! Was every misfortune to fall on me alone?' I thought. How could I foresee that this
very trouble would turn out to be good fortune for me?"

"The doctor came to see me constantly; he took as much interest in my case as if I could have
paid him handsomely.

He noticed that I was industrious, that I did not lie idle even when I was in great pain. It
pleased him to find me always with work in my hand. When at last the acute attack was over,
and the doctor told me that this would be his last visit, he told me also that I was lame for
life. At first I could not walk at all; but bye and bye I learned to use my crutches. When
I offered the doctor the money that was due him for his attendance, he said we would not speak
of that; that we both had to work, but with this difference, that he was sound and whole, while
I was not. He took my hand kindly, saying that it was hard for me not to be able to take any
amusement after working hard all the week; not to go out with the others on Sunday; and that
if I cared for reading, his wife had a great many nice books which she would be glad to lend
me, and they would make the Sundays less tedious. I did not really care for reading; I preferred
sewing as you do, but I accepted the doctor's offer and went to his house. His wife was very
kind and gave me a book at once, bidding me come as soon as I had finished it and get another.
I began to read the very next Sunday, and I became so deeply interested that I scarcely laid
the book down all day, and even during the week I took it up as often as I could find a spare
moment. It was an account of foreign countries and nations; how they lived, and their manners
and customs. I was particularly interested to read about how the women were treated in different
places; how in some countries they are sold and bartered for cattle or wool or cloth, and how
they belong to their husbands just as if they were furniture, and their husbands can treat
them just as they please, as we do cats or dogs. And in some places, it said, a wife has to
be burned when her husband dies, because she is only a part of him and has no value of her
own after his death. Oh! how many strange things there are in the world, to be sure! I became
hungry and thirsty for knowledge. The doctor's wife lent me one book after another, and in
each there was something new and wonderful. I learned how terrible the condition of women had
been everywhere until our own Lord Jesus Christ came into the world, and taught that one soul
was as much worth as another, all equal, man and woman, lord and servant; that every individual
must be free, one as well as another; and that two people should be joined together only by
love, and not as a matter of ownership. But even now-a-days there are still countries and islands
where men make nothing of killing and eating each other, and the women are bought and sold
like goods. It is only where the influence of Christianity has penetrated, that there is true
equality of womanhood. You can imagine the flood of new ideas that crowded in upon me as I
read, and I assure you that I was able to forget sometimes for many days that I was a hunchback,
and when I did remember it, the thought had lost its sting. I dwelt upon the many privations
and sufferings of others, till they seemed to outweigh my own trouble so that it dwindled in
my estimation; and gradually I began to see the good side of my lot. How independently I could
live supporting myself; what a wealth of interest was opened to me through my reading, and
in fact how fortunate I was, and blessed beyond many another! Yes, Veronica, I can assure you
that I am now a happy woman, with a heart filled with gratitude to the good God for the blessings
he has sent me. And so I say to you, my child, from the fulness of my own experience, that
you have no right to go about looking like a thunder-cloud; you with all the freshness and
beauty of your young life!

Tell me do you owe our Lord God something or is He in debt to you? Have you nothing to thank
him for? Others can see how much you have to look forward to. Get yourself together, girl,
and try to give your thoughts another direction."

"I should be only too glad to do so," said Veronica, who had listened intently to every word
that Sabina had said. "Have you any such book as you describe, that you can lend me to read?"

Sabina was well pleased at this request. She had a book close at hand, which she had just finished
reading, and from which she expected great things for the young girl. Veronica was moved by
Sabina's glowing words, to believe that her future might be happier, and that the clouds of
despondency which had overshadowed her, were about to be dispersed.

She lost no time, for she was in earnest. She opened the book that very evening, and began
to read. But her sanguine expectations were not fulfilled. She read the words, she understood
their meaning; but it was as if she heard them at a distance and through them all, louder than
all else, sounded something in her ears and in her heart that drowned them. It was the flow
of the troubled waters, as Sabina had said. The waves rose higher; their noise increased, until
Veronica lost all hearing and understanding of what she was reading. Still she persevered;
perhaps bye-and-bye it would come right. Alas! was not that the house door opening and shutting
again so softly late in the night? She flung the book aside; walked rapidly back and forth
in her chamber for awhile, then unfolded her sewing, and worked steadily on and on, until the
morning broke and a new day called her to its duties.

CHAPTER VII.

A THUNDER CLAP.

Blasi, the lounger, stood in his doorway in the clear sunshine of this lovely summer morning,
both hands plunged deep into his pockets as was his wont, and looked about him as if to see
whether everything in the outer world was the same as yesterday.

Judith came out to the well, carrying her water-jug on her head.

"Look out, Blasi, you are losing something," she cried. Blasi looked on the ground, turned
about, and searched behind and before.

"I don't see anything," he said, and stuffed his hands deeper into his pockets.

"It's always so with me," said Judith, "when I've lost anything, I can't see it."

"Oh ho, you're making a fool of me again!"

"That's all the thanks I get for telling you that you are losing something, and I was just
going to make you a present that is worth more than five francs to a fellow like you."

"What is it? Show it to me," said Blasi, with more animation.

"First I will tell you something, and then you shall have it," replied Judith. "Look here,
Blasi, my sainted father used to say, "If you keep your hands out of your pockets they will
get full, but if you keep them in, your pockets will be empty." Now, both your hands are in
your pockets, so all that ought to go in is running to waste. Isn't that so?"

"Well, suppose it is," said Blasi, angrily. "Now give me what you promised me."

"I gave it to you this very minute. I said you'd better take your hands out of your pockets,
and then your earnings would run in. That's good advice and worth more than five francs.

"What stuff! No one ever knows how to take you," grumbled Blasi.

"It wouldn't help you to take me, if you did not take your hands out too," said Judith, "but
never mind, I have really something good for you," and Judith motioned to him to come nearer.
"Would you like to have a nice well-washed shirt for Sunday? I will do one up for you if you
will tell me something."

