 It was Froben's peculiar good fortune to be able to employ, on a business
basis with a regular salary, the greatest scholar of the age as one of his editors and literary
advisers, and at the same time enable him to preserve his independence of thought and of action.
Aldus and the French publishers had gathered about them professional scholars and experts for
the execution of specific tasks at the market price, supplemented often by generous private
hospitality. That was good; but far better was Froben's relation with his friend, his intellectual
master, and his profitable client Erasmus. In an age when no copyright laws existed for the
author's benefit the works of Erasmus were shamelessly pirated in editions, published in Germany
and France, from which the author received not a penny. Yet Froben went right on paying to
Erasmus not only the fixed annual salary as a member of his consulting staff but also a generous
share of the profits upon his books. In a greedy, unscrupulous, and rapacious age this wise
and just, not to say generous, policy stands out as prophetic of a better time.

As a printer Froben was distinguished by the singular beauty of his roman type, the perfection
of his presswork, and the artistic decoration of his books. In this last respect he was much
indebted to the genius of Hans Holbein, whom he discovered as a young wood-engraver seeking
work as Basel. With that keen eye for unrecognized genius which marked his career he employed
Holbein to design borders and initials for his books. Later, with an equally sagacious and
generous spirit, perceiving that the young artist was too great a man to spend his days in
a printing office, he procured for him through Sir Thomas More an introduction to the court
of Henry VIII, where he won fame and fortune as a portrait painter. I narrate the incident
because it illustrates a very attractive and amiable aspect of some of these men of the Renaissance,
an uncalculating and generous desire to help gifted men to find their true place in the world
where they might do their largest work. This, in an age when competition and jealous rivalry
in public and in private life was as common as it is now, may give pause to the cynic and joy
to the lover of human kindness.

ANTON KOBERGER

(=No printer's mark known=)

We are in a different world when we turn to the fourth of our five representative printers,
Anton Koberger, of Nuremberg. During the forty years of his career as a publisher, between
1473 and 1513, he issued 236 separate works, most of them in several volumes, and of the whole
lot none show any taint of reforming zeal. Koberger was a loyal Catholic, and his published
books were largely theological and all strictly orthodox in nature. He is distinguished in
two respects from the other German printers of his time, the time between the death of Gutenberg
and the rise of Martin Luther. In the first place his work showed great typographical excellence,
with many fonts of handsome Gothic type and a lavish use of woodcut illustrations. In the second
place, his publishing business was far better organized, far more extensive in its selling
and distributing machinery, than that of any other printer in Europe. We learn that he had
agents not only in every German city, but in the very headquarters of his greatest competitors
at Paris, Venice, and Rome, and in such more distant places as Vienna, Buda-Pesth, and Warsaw.
The twenty-four presses in his own Nuremberg establishment were not sufficient for his enormous
business, and he let out printing jobs on contract or commission to printers at Strasburg,
Basel, and elsewhere. The true German spirit of discipline appears in a contemporary account
of his printing plant at Nuremberg. He had more than a hundred workmen there, including not
only compositors, pressmen, and proof-readers, but binders, engravers, and illuminators. All
these were fed by their employer in a common dining-hall apart from the works, and we are told
that they marched between the two buildings three times a day with military precision.

Koberger employed for a time the services of Albrecht Dürer, the famous engraver, not only
for the illustration of books but also for expert oversight of the typographical form. Typography
in its golden age was rightly regarded not as a mere mechanical trade but as an art of design,
a design in black upon white, in which the just proportion of columns and margins and titles
and initials was quite as important as the illustrations. Perhaps Koberger found Dürer too
independent or too expensive for his taste, for we find him in his later illustrated works
employing engravers more prolific than expert. Such were Michael Wolgemut and Wilhelm Pleydenwurff,
who drew and engraved the two thousand illustrations in the famous Nuremberg Chronicle published
by Koberger in 1493. This remarkable work was compiled by Doctor Hartman Schedel, of Nuremberg.
It is a history of the world from the creation down to 1493, with a supplement containing a
full illustrated account of the end of the world, the Millennium, and the last judgment. This
is by no means all. There is combined with this outline of history, not less ambitious though
perhaps not more eccentric than H. G. Wells's latest book, a gazetteer of the world in general
and of Europe in particular, a portrait gallery of all distinguished men from Adam and Methuselah
down to the reigning emperor, kings, and pope of 1493, with many intimate studies of the devil,
and a large variety of rather substantial and Teutonic angels. Every city in Europe is shown
in a front elevation in which the perspective reminds one of Japanese art, and the castle-towers
and bridges and river-boats all bear a strong family resemblance. The book is full of curious
material, quite apart from the quaint illustrations. In the midst of grave affairs of state
we run across a plague of locusts, an eclipse of the sun, or a pair of lovers who died for
love. Scandalous anecdotes of kings and priests jostle the fiercest denunciations of heretics
and reformers. A page is devoted to the heresies of Wyclif and Huss. Anti-Semitism runs rampant
through its pages. Various detailed accounts are given of the torture and murder of Christian
boys by Jews, followed by the capture and burning alive of the conspirators. Superstition and
intolerance stand side by side with a naive mystical piety and engaging stories of the saints
and martyrs. Of all the vast transformation in human thought that was then taking form in Italy,
of all the forward-looking signs of the times, there is little trace. From 1493 to the last
dim ages of the expiring world, the downfall of Antichrist and the setting up of the final
kingdom of heaven upon earth, seemed but a little way to Hartman Schedel, when he wrote with
much complacence the colophon to this strange volume. He left three blank leaves between 1493
and the Day of Judgment whereon the reader might record what remained of human history. It
is indeed rather the last voice of the middle ages than the first voice of the Renaissance
that speaks to us out of these clear, black, handsome pages that were pulled damp from the
press four hundred and twenty-eight years ago on the fourth of last June. At first reading
one is moved to mirth, then to wonder, then perhaps to disgust, but last of all to the haunting
melancholy of Omar the tent-maker when he sings

          "When you and I behind the veil are past,
           Oh, but the long, long while the world shall last."

