After we had watered our horses in a neighbouring spruit we lay down to rest. But ere long
General De la Rey came galloping into our midst with a lash in his hand, calling to us whether
we were not ashamed to lie there doing nothing, instead of following up our advantage now that
we had the chance, when otherwise the enemy would ill-treat our women and children and burn
down our homes. One of our corporals rather impertinently informed De la Rey that he served
under another General, and would obey no orders but his. De la Rey thereupon rode up to him
and gave him a heavy cut with his lash. I went up to the General, and told him that we were
quite willing to fight, and had only off-saddled for a rest by order of our Field-Cornet. In
his rage he lifted his lash, but, recognising me, lowered it again. If I had aimed at getting
a cut from him, I might have called out like the Dutch farmers, who got a box on the ear from
Peter the Great for pressing too closely upon him while he was building ships at Zaandam: 'I
have had one too! I have had one too!' We then rode with the General to the burnt camp. The
enemy had not found the game worth the candle, and had saved their shell for a more favourable
occasion.

One can imagine De la Rey's indignation when he saw that waggons, provisions, and ammunition
were nearly all burnt. He pointed out to us how ammunition and guns were required on every
side. General Beyers, whom we met there, excused himself by explaining that he had ordered
only those things to be burnt that we did not require. We then rode to the other positions
on the opposite side of the camp, but the enemy were in full flight, followed by an occasional
burgher.

I do not consider myself able to criticise the manner in which our officers organized this
battle. But it was easy to see that a great mistake had been made. We had much to be thankful
for, but the result might have been more advantageous to us. The whole camp with all its cannon
should have been taken with a smaller loss than eighty men killed and wounded.

I do not know the number of the enemy's killed and wounded. If our first attack had been made
unanimously and unexpectedly, we could easily have crushed the enemy. The prisoners, as usual,
pretended that they knew all about our plans, but why, then, were their reinforcements too
late, or, rather, why did they never arrive? When General De la Rey organizes an attack, and
his instructions are well carried out, the burghers have so much confidence in him, and like
him so well, in spite of, or perhaps because of his violent temper, that they never have any
doubt as to his ultimate success.

The prisoners were released. In my presence they were always well treated, and I have seen
many khaki prisoners who have never on any occasion been ill-treated.

Ds. Kriel, who constantly accompanied us in the most self-denying manner, in all our battles
and on all our long journeys, led us in prayer that day. Halfway up the kopje, which we climbed
in most solemn earnest, he offered up a prayer to God, and then impressed upon us the importance
of the occasion. On the top of the kopje he held a short service. It reminded me of that which
my own father held for the assembled burghers at Paardekraal in 1880. How true and faithful
he was in his position as preacher to the fighting men, and how well he served his adopted country!

After General De la Rey, Smuts, Kemp, and Mr. Naudé had all addressed us, Ds. Kriel read out
a document in which was expressed, in a few words, the purpose each one of us should attach
to his contribution of a stone towards the monument to be erected there. He exhorted the burghers
not to add a stone to the pile unless they fully understood and were in earnest about its meaning.
So the old covenant was renewed in a different place under different circumstances and in a
different manner from the Paardekraal Day of former years, and when the burghers descended
from the kopje they were strengthened by the renewing of an ancient pledge in their resolution
to fight to the last for their country and their people.

The place where the monument was erected was called Ebenhaëzer.

Between the Magalies Mountains and the Witwatersranden stretches a long valley called the Moat.
In the centre runs a gray ridge or rand, parallel to the mountains, and rising into kopjes
to the east, near Hekpoort. Thither our commando moved a few days later to meet the enemy,
who were approaching from Commandonek, most probably with revengeful intentions. The Moat was
well provided with corn, and asked for our protection. We stayed over a day on the gray ridge.
When the enemy advanced towards us on the day following, General De la Rey had taken up his
position near Nooitgedacht, and so formed the left wing. Commandant Kemp, with his men, was
at the south on the foot of the ridge, and Veld-Kornet van Tender, with a small troop of Zoutpansbergers,
was on the first kopje, while General Beyers, with the Waterbergers and Zoutpansbergers held
the right wing to the west of Hekpoort, in Witwatersrand. The whole of that forenoon the enemy
were ready to attack us, and we waited calmly. Towards afternoon their left wing moved towards
the first kopje, beyond the reach of the Zoutpansbergers, who were on the Witwatersranden near
Hekpoort. They began firing at the position of Veld-Kornet Van Tonder, and when he fell mortally
wounded his Zoutpansbergers were obliged to retire from the kopje.

Our Veld-Kornet, Kruger, a fine, brave fellow, then led twenty-five of our men towards Hekpoort,
to try and stop the enemy in their forward movement. As Malherbe, my brother, and I were among
the twenty-five, I cannot tell what happened to De la Rey on the other side of the gray ridge.
We pressed too far forward, and soon had to retreat some distance. Our Veld-Kornet stayed behind
with a few of us, on a small rise, while our horses were taken some 300 paces further back,
and the rest of our little troop rode in the direction of Hekpoort. The enemy already occupied
the first kopje, and were firing at us from a distance. We quickly made an entrenchment of
stones and lay waiting. But our people were retreating from the other kopjes, and we had to
get to our horses as quickly as possible. A few cowardly burghers on the ridge took us for
khakies and fired at us. Then I experienced the difference between the aim of Boer and khaki.
The latter's bullets always flew far above our heads, but the former's fell terribly close to us.

As yet we had retired in good order, but soon we fled in a panic. The enemy had come from Krugersdorp
in very large numbers, and already occupied the high Witwatersranden behind us.

Whoever has an incapable horse had better hide in a ditch or behind a wall along with the poor,
frightened women. More than once I have seen poor frightened women holding their crying children
by the hand, and seeking a hiding-place near their houses during a battle. It is indeed a tragic
sight!--we men, with our weapons in our hands, not able to defend them at such a time. And
then a great feeling of shame came upon us. These same women had only the day before called
down God's blessing upon us, and now they cried to us to hurry, or we would be surrounded.

We rode at a flying gallop for fully half an hour--along the Magalies Mountains, between the
Witwatersranden and the many smaller banks, while to the left the enemy were descending and
firing at us. The Waterbergers and Zoutpansbergers, who learnt later than we did that the enemy
were surrounding us, would all have been taken prisoners had they not forced their way bravely
through thick and thin. As far as we can tell, our loss was, fortunately, only one killed.

