DISTURBED IRELAND:

BEING THE LETTERS WRITTEN DURING THE WINTER OF 1880-81.

BY BERNARD H. BECKER, SPECIAL COMMISSIONER OF THE "DAILY NEWS."

WITH ROUTE MAPS.

London: MACMILLAN AND CO. 1881.

LONDON: R. CLAY, SONS, AND TAYLOR, BREAD STREET HILL.

PREFACE.

Having been most cordially granted permission to republish these letters in a collected form,
it is my duty to mention that my mission from the Daily News was absolutely unfettered, either
by instructions or introductions. It was thought that an independent and impartial account
of the present condition of the disturbed districts of Ireland would be best secured by sending
thither a writer without either Irish politics or Irish friends--in short, one who might occupy
the stand-point of the too-often-quoted "intelligent foreigner." Hence my little book is purely
descriptive of the stirring scenes and deeply interesting people I have met with on my way
through the counties of Mayo, Galway, Clare, Limerick, Cork, and Kerry. It is neither a political
treatise, nor a dissertation on the tenure of land, but a plain record of my experience of
a strange phase of national life. I have simply endeavoured to reflect as accurately as might
be the salient features of a social and economic upheaval, soon I fervently hope, to pass into
the domain of history; and in offering my work to the public must ask indulgence for the errors
of omission and commission so difficult to avoid while travelling and writing rapidly in a
country which, even to its own people, is a complex problem.

           B.H.B.

ARTS' CLUB, January 6th, 1881.

CONTENTS.

                                                        PAGE
I.
AT LOUGH MASK                                              1

II. AN AGRARIAN DIFFICULTY                                    18

III. LAND MEETINGS                                             26

IV. MISS GARDINER AND HER TENANTS                             52

V. FROM MAYO TO CONNEMARA                                    70

VI. THE RELIEF OF MR. BOYCOTT                                120

VII. MR. RICHARD STACPOOLE                                    153

VIII. PATRIOTS                                                 160

IX. ON THE FERGUS                                            166

X. PALLAS AND THE PALLADIANS                                191

XI. GOMBEEN                                                  207

XII. THE RETAINER                                             215

XIII. CROPPED                                                  225

XIV. IN KERRY                                                 232

XV. THE "BOYCOTTING" OF MR. BENCE JONES                      262

XVI. A CRUISE IN A GROWLER                                    279

XVII. "BOYCOTTED" AT CHRISTMASTIDE                             307

XVIII. CHRISTMAS IN COUNTY CLARE                                328

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

DISTURBED IRELAND.

I.

AT LOUGH MASK.

WESTPORT, CO. MAYO, Oct. 24.

The result of several days' incessant travelling in county Mayo is a very considerable modification
of the opinion formed at the first glance at this, the most disaffected part of Ireland. On
reaching Claremorris, in the heart of the most disturbed district, I certainly felt, and not
for the first time, that as one approaches a spot in which law and order are supposed to be
suspended the sense of alarm and insecurity diminishes, to put it mathematically, "as the square
of the distances." Even after a rapid survey of this part of the West I cannot help contrasting
the state of public opinion here with that prevailing in Dublin. In the capital--outside of
"the Castle," where moderate counsels prevail--the alarmists appear to have it all their own
way. I was told gravely that there was no longer any security for life or property in the West;
that county Mayo was like Tipperary in the old time, "only more so;" and that if I would go
lurking about Lough Mask and Lough Corrib it was impossible to prevent me; but that the chances
of return were, to say the least, remote. It was in vain that I pointed out that every stone
wall did not hide an assassin, and that strangers and others not connected either directly
or indirectly with the land were probably as safe, if not safer, on a high road in Mayo than
in Sackville-street, Dublin. It was admitted that, theoretically, I was quite in the right;
but that like many other theorists I might find my theory break down in practice. I was entertained
with a full account of the way in which assassinations are conducted in the livelier counties
of Ireland, and great stress was laid upon the fact that the assassins were always well primed
with "the wine of the country," that is to say whisky, of similar quality to that known in
New York as "fighting rum," "Jersey lightning," or "torchlight procession." It was then impressed
upon me that half-drunken assassins, specially imported from a distant part of the county to
shoot a landlord or agent, might easily mistake a stranger for the obnoxious person and shoot
him accordingly, just as the unlucky driver was hit in Kerry the other day instead of the land
agent. Furthermore, I was taken to a gunsmith's in Dawson-street, where I was assured that
the sale of firearms had been and was remarkably brisk, the chief demand being for full-sized
revolvers and double-barrelled carbines. The weapon chiefly recommended was one of the latter,
with a large smooth bore for carrying buck-shot and spreading the charge so much as to make
the hitting of a man at thirty yards almost certain. The barrels were very short, in order
that the gun might be convenient to carry in carriage or car. This formidable weapon was to
be carried in the hand so as to be ready when opportunity served; a little ostentation as to
one's habit of going armed being vigorously insisted on as a powerful deterrent.

To any person unacquainted with the humorous side of the Irish character a morning spent in
such converse as I have endeavoured to indicate might have proved disquieting enough; but those
who know Irishmen and their ways at once enter into the spirit of the thing, and enjoy it as
much as the untamable jokers themselves. Nothing is more amazing to serious people than the
light and easy manner in which everybody takes everything on this side of the Irish Sea. This
is perfectly exemplified by the tone in which the Kerry murder is discussed. I have heard it
talked over by every class of person, from a landholding peer to a not very sober car-driver,
and the view taken is always the same. No horror is expressed at the commission of such a crime,
or at the state of society which makes it possible. Nothing of the kind. A little sympathy
is expressed for the poor man who was shot by mistake, and then the humour of the situation
overrules every other consideration. That poor people resenting what they imagine to be tyranny
should shoot one of their own class instead of the hated agent is a fact so irresistibly comic
as to provoke a quantity of hilarious comment. As laughter dies away, however, another expression
of feeling takes place, and the slackness of the master in not being ready with his pistol,
and his want of presence of mind to pursue the murderer and avenge his servant's death, are
spoken of with the fiercest indignation. But nobody appears to care about the general and social
aspect of the case.

Beneath all this humour and a curious tendency to exaggerate the condition of the West, there
undeniably lurked very considerable uneasiness. It was known that "the Castle" was hard at
work, and that, before proceeding to coercive measures, Mr. Forster was getting together all
the trustworthy evidence that could be obtained as to the state of the country. As an instance
of the absurd rumours flying about, I may mention that I was in the presence of two Irish peers
solemnly assured that a "rising in the West" was imminent, and not only imminent, but fixed
for the 31st October. Now, who has not heard at any time within the memory of man of this expected
"rising in the West"? It is the spectre rouge, or, to be more accurate as to local colour,
the spectre vert of the Irish alarmist, and a poor, ragged, out-at-elbows spectre it is, altogether
very much the worse for wear. Flesh and blood could not bear the mention of this shabby, worn-out
old ghost with calmness, and I conveyed to the gentlemen who volunteered the information my
opinion that the spectre vert was, in American language, "played out." Will it be believed
that I was the only person present who ridiculed the "poor ghost"? I soon perceived that my
scornful remarks were not at all in accordance with the feeling of the company, who did not
see anything impossible in a "rising in the West," and refused to laugh at the Saxon's remark
that things did not "rise," but "set" in that direction. County Mayo and parts of county Galway
were beyond the law, and could only be cured by the means successfully employed in Westmeath
a few years ago--coercion. It was of no avail to say that very few people had been shot in
the disaffected counties during the last ten years. The answer was always the same. The minds
of the people were poisoned by agitators, and they would pay nobody either rent or any other
just debt except on compulsion.

Beyond Athlone the tone of public opinion improved very rapidly, and in Roscommon, once a disturbed
county, I found plenty of people ready to laugh with me at the spectre vert. There was nothing
the matter in that county. A fair price had been obtained for sheep and cattle, the harvest
had been good, everything was going on as well as possible. There was some talk, it was true,
about disturbances in Mayo, but there was a great deal of imagination and exaggeration, and
the trouble was confined to certain districts of the county, the centre of disturbance being
somewhere about Claremorris, a market town, on the railway to Westport, and not very far from
Knock, the last new place of pilgrimage. At Claremorris I accordingly halted to look about
me, and was surprised at the extraordinary activity of the little place. Travellers in agricultural
England, either Wessex or East Anglia, often wonder who drinks all the beer for the distribution
of which such ample facilities are afforded. A church, a public-house, and a blacksmith's shop
constitute an English village; but there is nobody on the spot either to go to church or drink
the beer. At Claremorris a similar effect is produced on the visitor's mind. The main street
is full of shops, corn-dealers, drapers, butchers, bakers, and general dealers in everything,
from a horse to a hayseed; but out of the main track there are no houses--only hovels as wretched
as any in Connaught. It is quite evident that the poor people who inhabit them cannot buy much
of anything. Men, women, and children, dogs, ducks, and a donkey, are frequently crowded together
in these miserable cabins, the like of which on any English estate would bring down a torrent
of indignation on the landlord. They are all of one pattern, wretchedly thatched, but with
stout stone walls, and are, when a big peat fire is burning, hot almost to suffocation. When
it is possible to distinguish the pattern of the bed-curtains through the dirt, they are seen
to be of the familiar blue and white checked pattern made familiar to London playgoers by Susan's
cottage as displayed at the St. James's Theatre. The chest of drawers is nearly always covered
with tea-things and other crockery, generally of the cheapest and commonest kind, but in great
plenty. House accommodation in Claremorris is of the humblest character. At the best inn, called
ambitiously Hughes's Hotel, I found that I was considered fortunate in getting any sort of
bedroom to myself. The apartment was very small, with a lean-to roof, but then I reigned over
it in solitary grandeur, while a dozen commercial travellers were packed into the three or
four other bedrooms in the house. As these gentlemen arrived at odd hours of the night and
were put into the rooms and beds occupied by their friends, sleep at Claremorris was not a
function easily performed, and it was some foreknowledge of what actually occurred that induced
me to sit up as late as possible in the eating, dining, reading, and commercial room, the only
apartment of any size in the house, but full of occupants, most of whom were very communicative
concerning their business. Here were the eagles indeed, but where was the carcass? To my amazement
I found that Mike this and Tim that, whose shops are very small, had been giving large orders,
and that the credit of Claremorris was in a very healthy condition. Equally curious was it
to find that the gathering of "commercials" was not an unusual occurrence, but that the queer
townlet was a genuine centre of business activity. We sat up as late as the stench of paraffin
from the lamps--for there is no gas--would allow us. Lizzie, literally a maid of all work,
but dressed in a gown tied violently back, brought up armful after armful of peat, and built
and rebuilt the fire over and over again. There was in the corner of the room a huge receptacle,
like half a hogshead, fastened to the wall for holding peat--or "turf," as it is called here--but
it never occurred apparently to anybody to fill this bin and save the trouble of eternal journeys
up and down stairs. It may be also mentioned, not out of any squeamishness, but purely as a
matter of fact, that in the intervals of bringing in "arrumfuls" of "torrf" Lizzie folded tablecloths
for newcomers so as to hide the coffee-stains as much as possible, and then proceeded to set
their tea for them, after which she went back to building the fire again. In the work of waiting
she was at uncertain intervals assisted by Joe, a shock-headed, black-haired Celt, who, when
a Sybarite asked at breakfast for toast, repeated "Toast!" in a tone that set the table in
a roar. It was not said impudently or rudely. Far from it. Joe's tone simply expressed honest
amazement, as if one had asked for a broiled crocodile or any other impossible viand.

There are, of course, people who would like separate servants to build up peat fires and to
cut their bread and butter; but this kind of person should not come to county Mayo. To the
less fastidious all other shortcomings are made up for by the absolutely delightful manner
of the people, whose kindness, civility, good humour, and, I may add, honesty, are remarkable.
At Hughes's Hotel the politeness of everybody was perfect; and I may add that the proprietor
saved me both time and money by giving up a long posting job, to his own obvious loss. But
if a visitor to Mayo wants anything done at once, then and there, he had better do it himself.
I ventured to remark to Joe that he was a civil-spoken boy, but not very prompt in carrying
out instructions, and asked whether everybody in Connaught conducted himself in the same way.
He at once admitted that everybody did so. "Divil the bad answer ye'll iver get, Sorr," said
he. "We just say, 'I will, Sorr,' and thin go away, and another gintleman says something, and
ye're forgotten. Dy'e see, now?" And away he went, and forgot everything. Being at Claremorris,
I tried to see a "lister," that is, a landowner and agent on the "black list." I was obliged
to make inquiries concerning his whereabouts, and this investigation soon convinced me that
there was something wrong in Mayo after all; not the spectre vert exactly, but yet an unpleasant
impalpability. All was well at Claremorris. Trade was good "presently now," potatoes were good
and cheap, poverty was not advancing arm-in-arm with winter. It was cold, for snow was already
on the Nephin; but turf had been stored during the long, fine, warm summer, and nobody was
afraid of the frost. But the instant I mentioned the name of the gentleman I wanted to find
not a soul knew anything about him. Farming several hundred acres of land on his own account,
a resident on Lough Mask for seven years, and agent to Lord Erne, he seemed to be a man concerning
whose movements the country side would probably be well informed. But nobody knew anything
at all about him. He might be at the Curragh, or he might be in Dublin, and then would, one
informant thought, slip over to England and get out of the trouble, if he were wise. In one
of the larger stores I saw that the mention of his name drew every eye upon me, and that the
bystanders were greatly exercised as to my identity and my business. In this part of the country
everybody knows everybody, and a stranger asking for a proscribed man excited native curiosity
to a maddening pitch. Presently I was taken aside, led round a corner, and there told that
most assuredly the man I sought had not come home from Dublin viâ Claremorris. Having a map
of the county with me, I naturally suggested that he might have reached Lough Mask by way of
Tuam, and, moreover, that, having a shrewd notion he would be shot at when occasion served,
he would most likely try to get home by an unusual route on which he would hardly be looked
for. "Is it alone ye think he'd be going, Sorr?" asked my informant in astonishment. "Divil
a fut does he stir widout an escort." This was news indeed. "He came here, sure, Sorr, wid
two constables on the kyar and two mounted men following him." I was also recommended to hold
my tongue, for that Mr. Boycott's friends would certainly not tell whether he was at home or
not, and his enemies would probably be kept in ignorance or led astray altogether. But it was
necessary for me to find out his whereabouts. To go and see whether he was at Lough Mask involved
a ride of forty miles, enlivened by the probability of being mistaken for him, slipping quietly
home, and cheered by the risk of hearing at his house that he had gone to England. Telegraphing
to him appeared useless, as communications were said to be cut off on the five Irish miles
between Ballinrobe, the telegraph station, and Lough Mask House. As time wore on, I learned
that he had had cattle at Tuam Fair, but that he had not come home that way for certain. In
despair I came on to this place, where information reached me yesterday morning that, contrary
to all expectations, he had gone on the other line of railway to Galway, and taken the steamboat
on Lough Corrib to Cong, after having telegraphed to his escort to meet him there.

From Westport to Lough Mask is a long but picturesque drive. I was lucky enough to secure an
intelligent driver and an excellent horse and car. Thirty Irish miles is not in this part of
the country considered an extravagant distance to drive a horse. I believe, indeed, that under
other circumstances the unfortunate animal would have been compelled to carry me the entire
distance; but I remarked that when I suggested a change of horses at Ballinrobe I was not only
accommodated with a fresh horse, but with a fresh car and a fresh driver, who declared that
the road to Lough Mask was about the safest and best that he had ever heard of. Now from Westport
to Ballinrobe we had met nobody but a very few people going into town either riding on an ass
or driving one laden with a pair of panniers or "cleaves" of turf, for which some fourpence
or fivepence would be paid. All seemed thinly clad, despite the fearfully cold wind sweeping
down from the Nephin, the Hest, and other snow-clad mountains. Crossing the long dreary peat-moss
known as Mún-a-lún, we found the cold intense; but on approaching Lough Carra came into bright
broad sunshine. At Ballinrobe the sun was still hotter, and as I approached Lough Mask the
heat was almost oppressive. I was not, however, allowed to inspect Lough Mask House and the
ruins of the adjacent castle in the first place. I had but just passed a magnificent field
of mangolds, many of which weighed from a stone to a stone and a half, when I came upon a sight
which could not be paralleled in any other civilised country at the present moment.

Beyond a turn in the road was a flock of sheep, in front of which stood a shepherdess heading
them back, while a shepherd, clad in a leather shooting-jacket and aided by a bull terrier,
was driving them through a gate into an adjacent field. Despite her white woollen shawl and
the work she was engaged upon, it was quite evident, from her voice and manner, that the shepherdess
was of the educated class, and the shepherd, albeit dressed in a leather jacket, carried himself
with the true military air. Both were obviously amateurs at sheep-driving, and the smart, intelligent
bull terrier was as much an amateur as either of them, for shepherd, shepherdess and dog were
only doing what a good collie would achieve alone and unaided. Behind the shepherd were two
tall members of the Royal Irish Constabulary in full uniform and with carbines loaded. As the
shepherd entered the field the constables followed him everywhere at a distance of a few yards.
All his backings and fillings, turnings and doublings, were followed by the armed policemen.
This combination of the most proverbially peaceful of pursuits with carbines and buckshot was
irresistibly striking, and the effect of the picture was not diminished by the remarks of Mr.
and Mrs. Boycott, for the shepherd and shepherdess were no other than these. The condition
of Mr. Boycott and his family has undergone not the slightest amelioration since he last week
wrote a statement of his case to a daily contemporary. In fact, he is in many respects worse
off. It will be recollected that about a month ago a process-server and his escort retreated
on Lough Mask House, followed by a mob, and that on the following day all the farm servants
were ordered to leave Mr. Boycott's employment. I may mention that Mr. Boycott is a Norfolk
man, the son of a clergyman, and was formerly an officer in the 39th Regiment. On his marriage
he settled on the Island of Achill, near here, and farmed there until he was offered some land
agencies, which occupied so much of his time, that he, after some twenty years' residence in
Achill, elected to take a farm on the mainland. For seven years he has farmed at Lough Mask,
acting also as Lord Erne's agent. He has on his own account had a few difficulties with his
workpeople; but these were tided over by concessions on his part, and all went smoothly till
the serving of notices upon Lord Erne's tenants. All the weight of the tenants' vengeance has
fallen upon the unfortunate agent, whom the irritated people declare they will "hunt out of
the country." The position is an extraordinary one. During his period of occupation Mr. Boycott
has laid out a great deal of money on his farm, has improved the roads, and made turnips and
other root crops to grow where none grew before. But the country side has struck against him,
and he is now actually in a state of siege. Personally attended by an armed escort everywhere,
he has a garrison of ten constables on his premises, some established in a hut, and the rest
in that part of Lough Mask House adjacent to the old castle. Garrisoned at home and escorted
abroad, Mr. Boycott and his family are now reduced to one female domestic. Everybody else has
gone away, protesting sorrow, but alleging that the power brought to bear upon them was greater
than they could resist. Farm labourers, workmen, herds-men, stablemen, all went long ago, leaving
the corn standing, the horses in the stable, the sheep in the field, the turnips, swedes, carrots,
and potatoes in the ground, where I saw them yesterday. Last Tuesday the laundress refused
to wash for the family any longer; the baker at Ballinrobe is afraid to supply them with bread,
and the butcher fears to send them meat. The state of siege is perfect.

When the strike first began Mr. Boycott went bravely to work with his family, setting the young
ladies to reaping and binding, and looking after the beasts and sheep himself. But the struggle
is nearly at an end now. Mr. Boycott has sold some of his stock; but he can neither sell his
crop to anybody else, nor, as they say in the North of England, "win" it for himself. There
remains in the ground at least five hundred pounds worth of potatoes and other root crops,
and the owner has no possible means of doing anything with them. Nor, I am assured on trustworthy
authority, would any human being buy them at any price; nor, if any such person were found,
would he be able to find any labourer to touch any manner of work on the spot under the ban.
By an impalpable and invisible power it is decreed that Mr. Boycott shall be "hunted out,"
and it is more than doubtful whether he will, under existing circumstances, be able to stand
against it. He is unquestionably a brave and resolute man, but there is too much reason to
believe that without his garrison and escort his life would not be worth an hour's purchase.

There are few fairer prospects than that from the steps of Lough Mask House, a moderately comfortable
and unpretending edifice, not quite so good as a large farmer's homestead in England. But the
potatoes will rot in the ground, and the cattle will go astray, for not a soul in the Ballinrobe
country dare touch a spade for Mr. Boycott. Personally he is protected, but no woman in Ballinrobe
would dream of washing him a cravat or making him a loaf. All the people have to say is that
they are sorry, but that they "dare not." Hence either Mr. Boycott, with an escort armed to
the teeth, or his wife without an escort--for the people would not harm her--must go to Ballinrobe
after putting a horse in the shafts themselves, buy what they can, and bring it home. Everybody
advises them to leave the country; but the answer of the besieged agent is simply this: "I
can hardly desert Lord Erne, and, moreover, my own property is sunk in this place." It is very
much like asking a man to give up work and go abroad for the benefit of his health. He cannot
sacrifice his occupation and his property.

There is very little doubt that this unfortunate gentleman has been selected as a victim whose
fate may strike terror into others. Judging from what I hear, there is a sort of general determination
to frighten the landlords. Only a few nights ago a man went into a store at Longford and said
openly, "My landlord has processed me for the last four or five years; but he hasn't processed
me this year, and the divil thank him for that same."

II.

AN AGRARIAN DIFFICULTY.

WESTPORT, CO. MAYO, Oct. 25th.

"Tiernaur, Sorr, is on the way to Claggan Mountain, where they shot at Smith last year, and--if
I don't disremember--is just where they shot Hunter last August eleven years. Ye'll mind the
cross-roads before ye come to the chapel. It was there they shot him from behind a sod-bank."
This was the reply I received in answer to my question as to the whereabouts of a public meeting
to be held yesterday morning, with the patriotic object of striking terror into the hearts
of landlords and agents. It was delivered without appearance of excitement or emotion of any
kind, the demeanour of the speaker being quite as simple as that of Wessex Hodge when he recommends
one to go straight on past the Craven Arms, and then bear round by the Dog and Duck till the
great house comes in sight. Tiernaur, I gathered, was about fifteen miles to the north-west
along Clew Bay towards Ballycroy. It is called Newfield Chapel on the Ordnance map, but is
always spoken of here by its native name. It is invested with more than the mere transient
interest attaching to the place of an open-air meeting, for it is the centre of a district
subject to chronic disturbance, and is just now the scene of serious trouble, or what would
appear serious trouble in any less turbulent part of the country. It is necessary to be exact
in describing what occurs here, as a phrase may easily be construed to imply much more than
is intended. When it is said that the country between Westport and Ballycroy is disturbed,
and that law and order are set at defiance, it must not be imagined that the roads are unsafe
for travellers, or that any ordinary person is liable to be shot at, beaten, robbed, or insulted.
I have no hesitation in stating that a stranger may go anywhere in the county, at any hour
of the day or night, alone and unarmed, and that even in country inns he need take no precautions
against robbery. Mayo people do not steal, and if they shot a stranger, it would only be by
mistake for a Scotch farmer or an English agent. And I am sure that the accident would be sincerely
deplored by the warm-hearted natives. I have thought it well to master all the details of the
Tiernaur difficulty, because it is a perfect type of the agrarian troubles which agitate the
West. In the first place the reader will clearly understand that English and Scotch landlords,
agents, and farmers, are as a rule abhorred by the Irish population. It is perhaps hardly my
province to decide who is to blame. Difference of manner may go for a great deal, but beyond
and below the resentment caused by a prompt, decisive, and perhaps imperious tone, lies a deeply-rooted
sense of wrong--logically or illogically arrived at. The evictions of the last third of a century
and the depopulation of large tracts of country have filled the hearts of the people with revenge,
and, rightly or wrongly, they not only blame the landlord but the occupier of the land. If,
they argue, there had been no Englishmen and Scotchmen to take large farms, the small holders
would not have been swept away, and "driven like a wild goose on the mountain" to make room
for them. Without for the present discussing the reasonableness of this plea, I merely record
the simple fact that an English or Scotch farmer is unpopular from the beginning. Here and
there such a one as Mr. Simpson may manage to live the prejudice down; but that he will have
to encounter it on his arrival is absolutely certain.

This being the case, it is not to be wondered at that when the late Mr. Hunter, a Scotchman,
took a large grazing farm at Tiernaur, his arrival was at once regarded in a hostile spirit.
The land he occupied was let to him by two adjoining proprietors, Mr. Gibbings, of Trinity
College, Dublin, and Mr. Stoney, of Rossturk Castle, near at hand. There was a convenient dwelling-house
on the part of the farm looking over Clew Bay towards Clare Island, and all was apparently
smooth and pleasant. No sooner, however, was Mr. Hunter established there than a difficulty
arose. The inhabitants of the surrounding country had been in the habit of cutting turf and
pulling sedge on parts of the mountain and bog included within the limits of Mr. Hunter's farm.
It is only fair to the memory of the deceased gentleman to state that such rights are frequently
paid for, and that he had not taken the farm subject to any "turbary" rights or local customs.
Accordingly he demanded payment from the people, who objected that they had always cut turf
and pulled sedge on the mountain; that they could not live without turf for fuel and sedge
to serve first as winter bedding for their cattle and afterwards as manure; that except on
Mr. Hunter's mountain neither turf nor sedge could be got within any reasonable distance; and,
finally, that they had always enjoyed such right. And so forth. As this was, as already intimated,
not in the bond, Mr. Hunter, not very unnaturally, insisted that if the people would not pay
him his landlord must, and asked Mr. Gibbings to allow him ten pounds a year off his rent.
The latter offered him, as I am informed, five pounds. The matter was referred to an umpire,
who awarded Mr. Hunter twelve pounds, an assessment which Mr. Gibbings declined to take into
consideration at all. After some further discussion Mr. Hunter warned the people off his farm
and declared their supposed "turbary" rights at an end. It is of course difficult to arrive
at any conclusion on the merits of the case. All that is certain is, that the people had long
enjoyed privileges which Mr. Gibbings declared to be simple trespass. Finally he told Mr. Hunter
he had his bond and must enforce it himself. The unfortunate farmer, thus placed, as it were,
between the upper and nether millstone, endeavoured to enforce his supposed rights. It is almost
needless to remark that the people went on cutting turf just as if nothing had happened. In
an evil hour Mr. Hunter determined to see what the law could do to protect him in the enjoyment
of his farm, and he sued the trespassers accordingly. I will not attempt to explain the intricacies
of an Irish lawsuit farther than to note that, owing to some deficiency in their pleas, the
trespassers underwent a nonsuit, or some analogous doom, and went gloomily away without having
even the satisfaction of a fair fight in court. At the instance of Mr. Hunter, execution for
damages and costs was issued against the most solvent of the trespassers, one John O'Neill,
of Knockmanus--his next-door neighbour, so to speak. On Friday the execution was put in, and,
on its being found impossible to find anybody to act as bailiff, Mr. Hunter himself asked the
sub-sheriff to put in his name, and he would see himself that the crops were not removed. This
was done, and on the following Sunday Mr. Hunter went with his family to attend Divine service
at Newport. Leaving Newport in the evening, he had gone not half-way to Tiernaur when his horse's
shoe came off. This circumstance, ominous enough in the disturbed districts of Ireland, was
not heeded by Mr. Hunter, who put back to Newport and had his horse shod. As he set out for
the second time, the evening was closing in, and as he reached the road turning off from the
main track towards his own dwelling he was shot from the opposite angle. The assassin must
have been a good marksman, for there were four persons in the dog-cart--Mr. Hunter, his wife,
his son, and a servant lad. The doomed man was picked out and shot dead. It is obviously unnecessary
to add that the assassin escaped, and has not been discovered unto this day.

Immediately on the commission of the crime the widow of the murdered man was afforded "protection,"
as it is called, in the manner usual during Irish disturbances--that is, four men and a sergeant
of the constabulary were stationed at her house. In course of time, however, Mrs. Hunter felt
comparatively safe, and the constables removed to a hut about two miles on the Newport road,
opposite to some very good grouse-shooting. There the five men dwell in their little iron-clad
house, pierced with loopholes in case of attack--a very improbable event. At the moment of
writing, four constables are also stationed at Mr. Stoney's residence, Rossturk Castle, although
it is not quite certain what the owner has done to provoke the anger of the people. This being
the situation, a very short time since Mrs. Hunter elected to give up the farm and leave this
part of the country. The property is therefore on the hands of the landlord, and is "to let."
How bright the prospect of getting a tenant is may be estimated by the remark made to me by
a very well-instructed person living close by--"If the landlord were to give me that farm for
nothing, stock it for me, and give me a cash balance to go on with, I would gratefully but
firmly decline the generous gift. No consideration on earth would induce me to occupy Hunter's
farm." In the present condition of affairs it would certainly require either great courage
or profound ignorance on the part of a would-be tenant to impel him to occupy any land under
ban. A rational being would almost as soon think of going to help Mr. Boycott to get in his
potatoes. For the people of Tiernaur are now face to face--only at a safe distance for him--with
Mr. Gibbings. The cause of the new difficulty is as follows: Mrs. Hunter having given up the
farm, it was applied for by some of the neighbours, who offered a similar rent to that paid
by her. Either because the landlord did not want the applicants as tenants, or because he thought
the land improved, he demanded a higher rent. This is the one unpardonable crime--an attempt
to raise the rent. For his own reasons the landlord does not choose to let what is called Hunter's
farm to the Tiernaur people on the old terms, and the stranger who should venture upon it would
need be girt with robur et æs triplex.

Within the last few days this proprietary deadlock has been enlivened by an act which has caused
much conversation in this part of Ireland. A house on Glendahurk Mountain has been burned down,
and the cattle of the neighbouring farmers have been turned on to the mountain to pasture at
the expense of Mr. Gibbings. Moreover the bailiff has been warned not to interfere, or attempt
to scare the cattle and drive them off. Thus the tenant farmers are grazing their cattle for
nothing, and, what is more, no man dare meddle with them. The sole remedy open to Mr. Gibbings
is civil process for trespass. Should he adopt this course he will probably be safe enough
in Dublin, but I am assured that the life of his bailiff will not be worth a day's purchase.

III.

A LAND MEETING.

WESTPORT, CO. MAYO, Oct. 27th.

The way from this place to Tiernaur is through a country, as a Mayo man said to me, "eminently
adapted to tourists." Not very far off lies Croagh Patrick, the sacred mountain from which
St. Patrick cursed the snakes and other venomous creatures and drove them from Ireland. I was
assured by the car-driver that the noxious animals vanished into the earth at the touch of
the Saint's bell. "He just," said this veracious informant, "shlung his bell at 'um, and the
bell cum back right into his hand. And the mountain is full of holes. And the snakes went into
'um and ye can hear 'um hissing on clear still days." Be this as it may, the line of country
towards Newport is delightfully picturesque. The great brown cone of Croagh Patrick soars above
all, and to right and left rise the snow-covered Nephin and Hest. Evidences of careful cultivation
are frequent on every side. Fairly large potato-fields occur at short intervals, and mangolds
and turnips are grown for feeding stock. Cabbages also are grown for winter feed, and the character
of the country is infinitely more cheerful than on the opposite side of Westport. Inquiring
of my driver as to the safety of the country, I received the following extraordinary reply,
"Ye might lie down and sleep anywhere, and divil a soul would molest ye, barring the lizards
in summer time; and they are dreadful, are lizards. They don't bite ye like snakes, or spit
at ye like toads; but if ye sleep wid ye'r mouth open, they crawl, just crawl down ye'r throat
into ye'r stommick and kill ye. For they've schales on their bodies, and can't get back; and
they just scratch, and bite, and claw at your innards till ye die." There was nothing to be
done with these terrible lizards but to drink an unmentionable potion, which, I am assured,
is strong enough to rout the most determined lizard of them all, and bring him to nought. It
is, however, noteworthy that stories of persons being killed by lizards crawling down their
throats are widely distributed. There is one of a young Hampshire lady who, the day before
she was married, went to sleep in her father's garden, and was killed by a lizard crawling
down her throat. And, my informant said, the lizard is carved on her tomb--a fact which makes
it appear likely that the story was made for the armorial bearings of the lady in question.

By a pleasant road lined with cabbage gardens we came on to Newport--a port which, like this,
is not one of the "has beens," but one of the "would have beens." There is the semblance of
a port without ships, and warehouses without goods, and quays overgrown with grass. Beyond
Newport the country grows wilder. There is less cultivation, and behind every little shanty
rises the great brown shoulder of the neighbouring mountain covered with rough, bent grass--or
sedge, as it is called here. Grey plover and curlew scud across the road, a sign of hard weather,
and near the rarer homesteads towers the hawk, looking for his prey. Now and again come glimpses
of the bay, of the great island of Innisturk, of Clare Island, and of Innisboffin. Wilder and
wilder grows the scenery as we approach Grace O'Malley's Castle, a small tenement for a Queen
of Connaught. It is a lone tower like a border "peel," but on the very edge of the sea. The
country folk show the window through which passed the cable of a mighty war ship to be tied
round Grace O'Malley's bedpost, whom one concludes to have been, in a small way, a kind of
pirate queen. As we approach Tiernaur the road becomes lively with country folk going to and
from chapel, and stopping to exchange a jest--always in the tongue of the country--by the way.
In this part of the wild road the Saxon feels himself, indeed, a stranger--in race, in creed,
and in language. Now and then he sees the Irishman of the stage, clad in the short swallow-tailed
coat with pocket-flaps, the corduroy breeches, the blue worsted stockings and misshapen caubeen,
made familiar by a thousand novels and plays. These articles of attire are becoming day by
day as rare as the red petticoats formerly worn by the peasant women. On the latter, however,
may still be seen, now and then, the great blue cloth cloaks which once formed a distinctive
article of costume, and a very necessary one in this severe climate. Presently jog by a few
men on horseback, very ill-mounted on sorry beasts, and riding in unison with the quality of
their animals. Men, women and children are in their Sunday best, and to all outward appearance
scrupulously clean. I am constrained to believe that among the very lowest class--that which
comes under prison regulations--the preliminary washing is counted as the severest part of
the punishment; but the evidence of my own eyesight is in favour of the strict personal cleanliness
of Sunday folk in this part of the country. Near Tiernaur I find bands of men marching to the
gathering, which is a purely local affair, not regularly organized by the Land League. But
the men themselves appear to be very strictly organized, to march well, and to obey their bugler
promptly. They are all in Sunday clothes, wear green scarves, and carry green banners. The
latter are inscribed with various mottoes proper to the occasion. On the Kilmeena banner appears,
"No prison cell nor tyrant's claim Can keep us from our glorious aim." The Glendahurk men proclaim
on another green banner, bearing the harp without the crown, that "Those who toil Must own
the soil;" and the Mulrawny contingent call upon the people to "Hold the Mountain," to cry
"Down with the Land Grabbers," and "God save Ireland." The musical arrangements are of the
humblest kind, and not a single man is armed, at least outwardly, and not one in twenty carries
a stick. All is quiet and orderly, and the same tranquil demeanour obtains at Tiernaur, or
rather at Newfield Chapel, appointed as the trysting-place after morning service. In accordance
with recent regulations there is no ostentatious display of police, but everybody knows that
a strong detachment is posted in Mrs. Hunter's house, and that on any sign of disturbance they
will promptly put in an appearance. On the side of the Government, as on that of the people,
there is an obvious desire to avoid any semblance of an appeal to force.

The scene at Newfield Chapel is both interesting and beautiful. Tiernaur lies between the brown
mountains and a sapphire sea, studded with islands rising precipitously from its level. In
front lies the lofty eminence of Clare Island, below which appears to nestle the picturesque
castle of Rossturk. The bay--which is said to hold as many islands as there are days in a year
and one over--presents a series of magnificent views. One might be assisting at one of the
meetings of the Covenanters held amid the seas and mountains of Galloway, but with the difference
that the faith of the meeting is that of the Church of Rome, and that the scenery is far grander
than that of Wigton and Kirkcudbright. It is a natural amphitheatre of sea and mountain, perfect
in its beauty, but for one dark spot, just visible--the place where Hunter was shot. The chapel,
modest and unpretending, is a simple, whitewashed edifice, surrounded by a white wall, over
which gleam, in the already declining sun, the red and black plaid shawls of the peasant women
who have remained after mass to witness the proceedings. Not a dozen bonnets are present, and
hardly as many hats, for nearly all the women and girls wear the shawl pulled over their heads,
Lancashire fashion. In appearance the people contrast favourably with those of the inland towns
of county Mayo. The men look active and wiry, and the women are well grown and in many cases
have an air of distinction foreign to the heavy-browed, black-haired Celt of the interior.
Altogether the picture is well worthy of a master of colour, with its masses of black and green,
relieved by patches of bright red, standing boldly out against the background of brown moor
and azure sea.

The proceedings are hardly in consonance with the dignity of the surroundings. Many marchings
to and fro occur before the various deputations are duly ushered to their place near the temporary
hustings erected in front of the chapel. When the meeting--of some two thousand people at most--has
gathered, there is an unlucky fall of rain, advantage of which is taken by a local "omadhaun,"
or "softy" as they call him in Northern England, to mount the stage and make a speech, which
elicits loud shouts of laughter. Taking little heed of the pelting shower the "omadhaun," who
wears a red bandanna like a shawl, and waves a formidable shillelagh, makes a harangue which,
so far as I can understand it, has neither head nor tail. Delivered with much violent gesticulation,
the speech is evidently to the taste of the audience, who cheer and applaud more or less ironically.
At last the rain is over, and the serious business of the day commences. The chair is taken
by the parish priest of Tiernaur, whose initial oration is peculiar in its character. The tone
and manner of speaking are excellent, but alack for the matter! A more wandering, blundering
piece of dreary repetition never bemused an audience. In fairness to the priest, however, it
must be admitted that a Government reporter is on the platform, and that the presence of that
official may perhaps exercise a blighting influence on the budding flowers of rhetoric. All
that the speaker--a handsome man, with a very fine voice--said, amounted to a statement, repeated
over and over again with slight variations, that the people of Tiernaur were placed by the
Almighty on the spot intended for them to live upon; that they were between the mountains and
the sea; that all that the landlords could take from them they had taken; "the wonder was they
had not taken the salt sea itself." This was all the speaker had to say, and he said it over
and over again. He was succeeded by his curate, who insisted with like iteration on the duty
of supporting the people imposed upon the land. Out of the fatness thereof they should, would,
and must be maintained. Other sources of profit there were, according to this rev. gentleman,
absolutely none. The land belonged to the people "on payment of a just rent" to the landlords.
"Down wid 'em!" yelled an enthusiast, who was instantly suppressed. And the people had a right
to live, not like the beasts of the field, but like decent people. And da capo.

Now among many and beautiful and picturesque things Ireland possesses some others altogether
detestable. The car of the country, for instance, is the most abominable of all civilised vehicles.
Why the numskull who invented the crab-like machine turned it round sidewise is as absolutely
inconceivable as that since dog-carts have been introduced into the West the car should survive.
But it does survive to the discomfort and fatigue of everybody, and the especial disgust of
the writer. There is another thing in Connaught which I love not to look upon. That is the
plate of a diner at a table d'hôte, on which he has piled a quantity of roast goose with a
liberal supply of stuffing, together with about a pound of hot boiled beef, and cabbage, carrots,
turnips, and parsnips in profusion--the honour of a separate plate being accorded to the national
vegetable alone. It is not agreeable to witness the demolition of this "Benjamin's mess" against
time; and when the feat is being performed by several persons the effect thereof is the reverse
of appetising. But I would rather be driven seventy miles--Irish miles--on a car, and compelled
to sit down to roast goose commingled with boiled beef and "trimmings," than I would listen
to a political speech from the curate of Tiernaur. By degrees I felt an utter weariness and
loathing of life creeping over me, and I turned my face towards the sun, setting in golden
glory behind Clare Island, and lighting up the rich ruddy brown of the mountain, behind which
lay the invaded pastures of Knockdahurk. By the way this invasion of what are elsewhere deemed
the rights of property was barely alluded to by the reverend speakers, the latter of whom,
after making all kinds of blunders, finally broke down as he was appealing to the "immortal
and immutable laws of--of--of"--and here some wicked prompter suggested "Nature," a suggestion
adopted by the unhappy speaker before he had time to recollect himself. After this lame and
impotent conclusion, a gentleman in a green cap and sash, richly adorned with the harp without
the crown, infused some vitality into the proceedings by declaring that the only creature on
God's earth worse than a landlord was the despicable wretch who presumed to take a farm at
an advanced rent. This remark was distinctly to the point, and was applauded accordingly. It
was indeed a significant, but in this part of the country quite unnecessary, intimation that
safer, if not better, holdings might be found than "Hunter's Farm." As most of the persons
present had come from a long distance, some as much as fifteen or twenty Irish miles, the subsequent
proceedings, such as the passing of resolutions concerning fixity of tenure and so forth, were
got through rapidly, and the meeting dispersed as quietly as it assembled. The organized bodies
marched off the ground in good order, without the slightest sign of riot or even of enthusiasm.
Men and women, the latter especially, were almost sad and gloomy--for Irish people. I certainly
heard one merry laugh as I was making for my car, and it was at my own expense. A raw-boned,
black-haired woman, "tall, as Joan of France or English Moll," insisted that I should buy some
singularly ill-favoured apples of her. As I declined for the last time she fired a parting
shot, "An' why won't ye buy me apples? Sure they're big and round and plump like yerself, aghra"--a
sally vastly to the taste of the bystanders. It struck me, however, that the people generally
seemed rather tired than excited by the proceedings of the day--the most contented man of all
being, I take it, Mike Gibbons, who had been driving a brisk trade at his "shebeen," the only
house of business or entertainment for miles around.

As I drove homewards on what had suddenly become a hideously raw evening, my driver entertained
me with many heartrending and more or less truthful stories of evictions. He showed me a vast
tract of land belonging to the Marquis of Sligo, from which the original inhabitants had, according
to his story, been driven to make way for one tenant who paid less rent for all than they did
for a part. One hears of course a great deal of this kind of thing from the poorer folk,--car-drivers,
whose eloquence is proverbial, not excepted. My driver had assuredly not been corrupted by
reading inflammatory articles in newspapers, for, although he speaks English as well as Irish,
"letter or line knows he never a one" of either, any more than did stout William of Deloraine.
His statements, however, are strictly of that class of travellers' tales told by car-drivers,
and must be taken with more than the proverbial grain of seasoning. I find him as a rule very
quiet until I have administered to him a dose of "the wine of the country," and then he mourns
over the desolation of the land and the ravages of the so-called "crowbar brigade" as if they
were things of yesterday. Whether the local Press reflects the opinion of the peasants of Mayo,
or the peasants only echo the opinion of the Press as reproduced to them by native orators,
I am at present hardly prepared to decide. One thing, however, is certain. Not only that professional
"deludher," the car-driver, but tradesmen, farmers, and all the less wealthy part of the community
still speak sorely of the evictions of thirty and forty years ago, and point out the graveyards
which alone mark the sites of thickly populated hamlets abolished by the crowbar. All over
this part of the country people complain bitterly of loneliness. According to their view, their
friends have been swept away and the country reduced to a desert in order that it might be
let in blocks of several square miles each to Englishmen and Scotchmen, who employ the land
for grazing purposes only, and perhaps a score or two of people where once a thousand lived--after
a fashion. It is of no avail to point out to them that the wretchedly small holdings common
enough even now in Connaught cannot be made to support the farmer, or rather labourer, and
his family decently, even in the best of years, and that any failure of crop must signify ruin
and starvation. Any observation of this kind is ill received by the people, who cling to their
inhospitable mountains as a woman clings to a deformed or idiot child. And in this astonishing
perversion of patriotism they are supported in unreasoning fashion by their pastors, who seem
to imagine that because a person is born on any particular spot he must remain there and insist
on its maintaining him and his.

Now, it is not inconceivable that a landlord should take a very different view of the situation.
Whether his estate is encumbered or not, he expects to get something out of it for himself.
It was therefore not unnatural that advantage should have been taken of the famine and the
Encumbered Estates Act to get the land into such condition that it would return some ascertainable
sum. The best way of effecting this was thought to be the removal of the inhabitants who paid
rent or not as it suited them, and in place of a few hundred of these to secure one responsible
tenant, even if he paid much less per acre than the native peasant. I draw particular attention
to the latter fact, as one of the popular grievances sorely and lengthily dwelt upon is that
the oppressor not only took the land from the people, evicted them, and demolished their cabins
with crowbars, but that he let his property to the hated foreigner for less than the natives
had paid and were willing to pay, or promised to pay, him. He let land by thousands of acres
to Englishmen and Scotchmen at a pound an acre, whereas he had received twenty-five and thirty
shillings from the starving peasants of Connaught. This was deliberate cruelty, framed to drive
the people away who were willing to stay and pay their high rents as of old. But the fact unfortunately
was that Lord Lucan, Lord Sligo, and other great landowners in county Mayo had found it so
difficult to get rent out of their tenants that they determined to let their land to large
farmers only, at such a price as they could get, but with the certainty that the rent, whatever
it was, would be well and duly paid, and there would be an end to the matter. This, I hear,
is the true history of the eviction of the old tenants and the letting of great tracts of land
to tenants like Mr. Simpson on favourable terms. The landlord knew that he would get his rent,
and he has got it, that is, hitherto.

The story of the great farm, colossal for this part of the country, leased by Mr. Simpson from
Lord Lucan, and now on that nobleman's hands, is a curious one as revealing the real capacity
of the soil when properly handled. Twenty-two hundred Irish acres at as many pounds sterling
per annum represent in Mayo an immense transaction. The tenant came to his work with capital
and ripe experience, farmed well, and, I am assured on the best authority, fared well, getting
a handsome return for his capital. So satisfied was he with his bargain, that he offered to
renew his agreement with Lord Lucan if he were allowed a deduction for the false measurement
of the acreage of the farm, which had been corrected by a subsequent survey. As I am instructed,
there were not 2,200 acres, but the tenant was quite willing to pay a pound per acre for what
was there. Now, an Irish acre is so much bigger than an English acre that thirty acres Irish
measurement make forty-nine English. Lord Lucan consequently thought the farm cheaply let,
and hesitated to make any allowance. This negotiation began last spring, but soon became hopeless.
The country about Hollymount and Ballinrobe grew disturbed. Proprietors, agents, and large
farmers required "protection" from the constabulary, and there was no longer anything to attract
capital to the neighbourhood in the face of a deterrent population. Hence one of the largest
and most popular farmers in Mayo has retired from the field with his capital, and has left
his landlord to farm the land himself. Apparently Lord Lucan can do no better; for it would
be difficult to find a stranger of sufficient substance to rent and farm twenty-two hundred
acres of land, endowed with sufficient hardihood to bring his money and his life hither under
the existing condition of affairs.

The incident just narrated, moreover, appears to prove that one object at least of the party
of agitation has been achieved. To politico-economists it will appear a Pyrrhic victory. Capital
is effectually scared from this part of Ireland, and those who have invested money on mortgage
and found themselves at last compelled to "take the beast for the debt" are bitterly regretting
their ill-judged promptitude. A large farm between this and Achill, or near Ballina on the
north, or in the country extending from the spot where Lord Mountmorres was shot, towards Ballinrobe,
Hollymount, Claremorris, or Castlebar, could hardly be let now at any price, even where the
neighbours have not actually taken possession, as at Knockdahurk. Landlords have apparently
the three proverbial courses open to them. They cannot sell their land, it is true; but they
can let it lie waste, they can farm it themselves "if," as a trustworthy informant said to
me just now, "they dare," or they can let it directly, as of old, to small tenants, who will
come in at once and perhaps pay what they consider a fair rent in good years. It is folly to
expect them to pay at all when crops are bad. And then there is the inevitable delay and uncertainty
at all times which has led to the system of "middlemen" of which so much has been said and
written. The middleman is that handy person, to the landlord, who assures him of a certain
income from his property by buying certain rents at a deduction of 30 or 40 per cent., and
collecting them as best he can. To the landlord he is a most useful man of business, thanks
to whom he can count upon a certain amount of ready money. To the peasant he appears as a fiendish
oppressor.

Touching this word "peasant," a great deal of misconception concerning the condition of the
people of the West and their attitude towards their landlords will be got rid of by substituting
it for the word "farmer." It is absurd to compare the tenant of a small holding in Mayo with
an English farmer--properly so called. The latter is a man engaged in a large business, and
must possess, or, as I regret to be obliged to write, have been possessed of capital. The misuse
of the word farmer and its application to the little peasant cultivators here can only lead
to confusion. The proper standard of comparison with the so-called Mayo farmer is the English
farmer's labourer. In education, in knowledge of his trade, in the command of the comforts
of life, a Mayo cultivator of six, eight or ten acres is the analogue of the English labourer
at fourteen shillings per week. The latter has nearly always a better cottage than the Mayo
man, and, taking the whole year round, is about as well off as the Irishman. The future of
neither is very bright. The Wessex hind may jog on into old age and the workhouse; the Irishman
may be ruined and reduced to a similar condition at once by a failure of his harvest. Neither
has any capital, yet the Irishman obtains an amount of credit which would strike Hodge dumb
with amazement. He is allowed to owe, frequently one year's, sometimes two years' rent. Indeed,
I know of one particularly tough customer who at this moment owes three years' rent--to wit,
24l.--and will neither pay anything nor go. Now for an English labourer to obtain credit for
a five-pound note would be a remarkable experience. His cottage and his potato patch cost him
from one to two shillings per week; but who ever heard of his owing six months', let alone
three years', rent? But this is the country of credit; and, so far as I have seen, nobody is
in a violent hurry either to pay or to be paid, bating those who have lent money on mortgage.
And even they are not in a hurry to foreclose just now.

CASTLEBAR, Oct. 28.

The marked--I had almost written ostentatious--absence of weapons at the meetings of the last
two Sundays has attracted great attention. From perfectly trustworthy information I gather
that appearances are in this matter more than usually deceitful. It is impossible to doubt
that the large population of this country is armed to the teeth. Since the expiration of the
Peace Preservation Act the purchase of firearms has been incessant. At the stores in Westport,
where carbines are sold, more have been disposed of in the last five months than in the ten
previous years, and revolvers are also in great demand. The favourite weapon of the peasantry,
on account of its low price and other good qualities, is the old Enfield rifle bought out of
the Government stores, shortened and rebored to get rid of the rifling. The work of refashioning
the superannuated rifles and adapting them for slugs and buckshot has, I hear, been performed
for the most part in America, whence the guns have been re-imported into this country in large
quantities. It is believed that the suppression of arms on the occasion of large gatherings
is due to the judgment of popular leaders, who are naturally averse to any display which would
afford the Government a pretext for disarming the inhabitants. There is, however, no doubt
that the people of this district are more completely armed than at any previous period of Irish
history. A ten-shilling gun license enables any idle person to walk about anywhere with a gun
on his shoulder, but this privilege is rarely exercised. Two mornings ago four men passed in
front of the Railway Hotel at Westport with guns on their shoulders, but such occurrences are
very rare, the only individuals who carry weapons ostentatiously being landlords, agents, and
the Royal Irish Constabulary affording them "protection." This protection is always granted
when asked for, but many landlords have an almost invincible repugnance to go everywhere attended
by armed police. Lord Ardilaun, I hear, has organised a little bodyguard of his own people,
in preference to being followed about by the tall dark figures now frequent everywhere in county
Mayo from Achill to Newport, from Ballina to Ballinrobe, and from Claremorris to Westport.
Still, anything like a "rising in the West" is regarded here as chimerical; and the arming
of the people as aimed only at the terrifying of landlords. No apprehension of any immediate
outbreak or collision with the authorities is entertained in the very centre of disturbance.
It may be added that, owing to the firm yet gentle grip of the Resident Magistrate, Major A.G.
Wyse, late of the 48th Regiment, a veteran of the Crimea and of the war of the Indian Mutiny,
the Government has this district well in hand, and is kept perfectly informed as to every occurrence
of the slightest importance. Meanwhile, the possibility of armed resistance to the serving
of civil-bill and other processes is averted by the presence of an overwhelming body of armed
constabulary. Fifty men and a couple of sub-inspectors attended the serving of some civil-bill
processes towards Newport only a few days ago, and a similar body attended to witness an abortive
attempt at eviction on Miss Gardiner's property near Ballina.

From all that I can ascertain, the position of the Lord-Lieutenant of the country is by no
means enviable. Having succeeded in losing his chief tenant and been compelled, in order to
farm his own land in safety, to ask for "protection," he is now embroiled with a portion at
least of the Castlebar people, who think, rightly or wrongly, that the lord of the soil and
collector of tolls and dues has something to do with providing the town with a market-place.
Into the merits of the question it is hardly necessary to enter. Suffice it to say that the
local Press has taken advantage of the occasion to renew the popular outcry against "this old
exterminator." Perhaps it does not hurt anybody very much to be called an "exterminator," especially
when the extermination referred to occurred thirty years ago. The instance is merely worth
citing as showing the undying hatred felt in this part of the country towards those who, acting
wisely or unwisely, after the famine, determined to get rid of a population which the soil
had shown itself unequal to support. There is no doubt that Lord Lucan brought "a conscience
to his work" and made a solitude around Castlebar. "On the ruins of many a once happy homestead,"
continues the local scribe, "do the lambs frisk and play, a fleecy tribe that has, through
landlord tyranny, superseded the once happy peasant." It is also urged as an additional grievance
that the sheep, cattle, and pigs raised by "the old exterminator" are sent from the railway
station "to appease the appetite of John Bull." Thus Lord Lucan and in a minor degree John
Bull are shown up as the destroyers of the Irish peasant and devourers of that produce which
should have gone to support him in that happiness and plenty which he enjoyed--at some probably
apocryphal period. Be this, however, as it may, the personal hatred of the "exterminator" is
a fact to be taken into account in any attempt to reflect the public opinion of this part of
Ireland.

Those able to look more impartially on the matter than is possible to the children of the soil
can perceive that the decay only too visible in many parts of Mayo is due in great measure
to causes far beyond the control of exterminators, or even of the arch-devourer John Bull himself.
In the old time, before the famine and before railroads and imported grain, this far western
corner of Ireland had a trade of its own. I am not prepared to believe that the enormous warehouses
of Westport were ever filled to overflowing with merchandise, being inclined rather to assign
their vast size to that tendency towards overbuilding which is a permanent characteristic of
a generous and hopeful people. Perhaps the trade of Westport might have expanded to the dimensions
of the gaunt warehouses which now look emptily on the sea, but for adverse influences. At the
period of the old French war Westport was undoubtedly a great emporium for grain, especially
oats, for beef, pork, and military stores, which were shipped thence to our army in the Peninsula.
But other sources of supply and improved means of communication have left the little seaport
on the Atlantic, as it were, on one side, and such vitality as exists in the coasting trade
of this part of the country is rather visible at Ballina than at Westport. It is quite possible
that under the old condition of affairs the peasant whose oats were in brisk demand for cavalry
stores fared better than his son who fell on the evil days of the famine; but there can be
no doubt that the decline of Mayo as an exporting county can hardly be laid to the charge of
the depopulators of the land. So far as can be descried through the cloud of prejudice which
involves the entire question, the land was no longer able to feed its inhabitants, much less
afford any surplus for sale or export.

The Marquis of Sligo, whose agent, Mr. Smith, was shot at--and missed--last year, is almost
as unpopular as Lord Lucan, for not only have most of the people been swept from his country,
but the rent was raised on the remainder no longer ago than 1876. It is probably this nobleman
who was in the mind of the humourist who pointed out that the shooting of an agent was hardly
likely to intimidate that "distant Trojan," the landlord. The Lucan and Sligo lands in Mayo
have, therefore, been managed on nearly parallel lines, and it is curious to contrast with
them the management of Sir Robert Blosse's estate. This is another very large property, and
has been conducted on the exactly opposite principle to that pursued by Lords Sligo and Lucan.
The people have been let alone; they retain the holdings their fathers tilled, and they have
tided over bad times so well that their April rents have, to my certain knowledge, been all
paid. What will occur in November it is unnecessary to predict, but it may be remarked, by
the way, that the Irish landlord, whose rents do not overlap each other, is in an exceptionally
fortunate position.

When I was at Ballinrobe the other day I was much struck with the unanimity with which everybody
had agreed to leave that unfortunate gentleman, Mr. Boycott, in the lurch. That his servants
should revolt, that his labourers should go away, that strangers should be bribed or frightened
away from taking their place, are things by no means unparalleled even in the most manufacturing
town in England. But that his butcher and baker should strike against their customer was a
new experience hardly to be explained on any ready-made theory. I confess that I was so much
astonished that I preferred waiting for facts before committing myself to any explanation.
At this moment I have no hesitation in stating that the tradespeople of the smaller towns in
the west are neither strong enough to resist the pressure put upon them by the popular party
nor very much disposed to defend their right to buy and sell as they please. On the same principle
apparently that a great nobleman of the Scottish Lowlands has, since the last election, made
his sovereign displeasure known to his tenants, have the party of agitation made "taboo" any
tradesmen who have dared to run counter to the current of present opinion. When a baker is
told he must not do a certain thing he obeys at once, and, with a certain quickness and suppleness
of intellect, casts about to see how he can best represent himself as a martyr. "Pay rint,
Sorr," said a well-to-do shopkeeper to me two days ago; "and how are thim poor divils to pay
rint that cannot pay me? And how am I to pay any one when I can't get a shillin' ov a soul?"

This little incident will explain how the opportunity of shirking responsibility is seized
upon by many. To begin with, the advantage is with the assailant, for the custom of any one
farmer or agent is a small matter compared with that of the country side. It is therefore manifestly
to the interest of the little shopkeeper to curry favour with the populace rather than with
those set in authority over them. Again, the petty trader would fain, after the example laid
down by Panurge, pray to God for the success of the peasant in order that he might "de terre
d'aultruy remplir son fossé"--that the till might be filled if the agent's book remained empty.
As I have previously explained, everybody owes to somebody, or is owed by somebody, in this
island of weeping skies and smiling faces. The peasant owes his landlord, who owes the mortgagee
or the agent. And the peasant has another creditor--the little trader who works on the credit
extended to him from Dublin or Belfast. Beyond a certain limit the little shopkeeper cannot
go. So he likes to be threatened, to be made "taboo," to be a martyr, and then presses the
tenants who have paid no rent to the landlord to pay him "as they can afford to, begorra, if
they hould the harvest." This advice of Mr. Parnell's is keenly relished by many, and has gained
him, from a poet, whose Hibernian extraction speaks in his every line, the incomprehensible
title of "Young Lion of the Fold."

There is an American humourist who once said that "if the lion ever did lie down with the lamb
it would be with the lamb inside of him." Mayhap this is what the indigenous "pôte" dimly shadows
forth from the mistland of verse. Or has he mixed up the lion with the eagle in a dovecot?

IV.

MISS GARDINER AND HER TENANTS.

WESTPORT, CO. MAYO, Nov. 1st.

A trip into the northern part of this county, which has occupied me for the last three days,
has hardly reassured me as to the condition of the country around Ballina and Killala. The
last-named place is famous for its round tower and that invasion of the French in '98, which
led to "Castlebar Races." Ballina is a town of about six thousand inhabitants, situate on the
river Moy--an excellent salmon stream which debouches into Killala Bay, the most important
inlet of the sea between Westport and Sligo. Perhaps Ballina is the principal town in county
Mayo; certainly it seems to be the most improving one. It is, however, a considerable distance
from the sea. Just now it is the seat of a species of internecine war between landlord and
tenant, waged under conditions which lend it extraordinary interest. Exacting "landlordism"
and recalcitrant "tenantism" seem here to have said their last word. Between a considerable
landholder and her tenants a fight is being fought out which throws a lurid light on the present
land agitation in Ireland.

The landholder referred to is the Miss Gardiner whose name is familiar in connection with more
or less successful attempts at eviction. This lady, who many years ago inherited a large property
from her father, the late Captain Gardiner, has become a by no means persona grata to "the
Castle," the sub-sheriff, the Royal Irish Constabulary, and her tenants. She is doubtless a
resolute and determined woman, and possessed by a vigorous idea of the rights of property.
If not descended from the celebrated Grace O'Malley, Queen of Connaught, she has at least equally
autocratic ideas with that celebrated ruler of the West. For years past Miss Gardiner has been
famous as a raiser of stock, equine and bovine, but unfortunately she has been most frequently
before the public as the strong assertor of territorial rights. She dwells far beyond Killala,
near the village of Kilcun, at a house called Farmhill. From Westport to Farmhill the country
is as picturesque as any in the West of Ireland. The snow-clad hills of Nephin and Nephin Beg
are in sight all the way from Manulla Junction--the chief railway centre hereabouts, and the
line past Loughs Cullen and Conn to Ballina, and the car-drive beyond Ballina, reveal a series
of magnificent views. There is, however, something very "uncanny" to the Saxon eye about Farmhill.
The first object which comes in sight is a police barrack, with a high wall surrounding a sort
of "compound," the whole being obviously constructed with a view to resisting a possible attack.
This stiff staring assertion of the power of the law stands out gaunt and grim in the midst
of a landscape of great beauty. Autumn hues gild the trees, the wide pastures are of brilliant
green, and on the rough land the reddening bent-grass glows richly in the declining sun, which
throws its glory alike over snowy hills and rosy clouds. The only blot, if a white edifice
can be thus designated, is the stern, angular police barrack. In the front inclosure the sergeant
is drilling his men; and those not under drill are watching the domain immediately opposite,
to the end that no unauthorised person may approach it. Like most of the dwellings in a country
otherwise sparsely supplied with trees, Farmhill is nestled in a grove. But the surroundings
of the house are not those associated in the ordinary mind with a home. The outer gate is locked
hard and fast, and the little sulky-looking porter's lodge is untenanted. Its windows are barred,
and all communication with the house itself is cut off, except to adventurous persons prepared
to climb a stone wall. From the lodge onward the private road passes through a poor kind of
park, and subsides every now and then into a quagmire. It is vile walking in this park of Farmhill,
and as the house is approached there is a barking of dogs. Oxen are seen grazing, and peacocks
as well as turkeys heave in sight. The house itself is barred and barricaded in a remarkable
manner. The front door is so strongly fastened that it is said not to have been opened for
years. Massive bars of iron protect the windows, and the solitary servant visible is a species
of shepherd or odd man, who comes slinking round the corner. No stranger gentlewoman's dwelling
could be found in the three kingdoms. The spot reeks with a dungeon-like atmosphere. It is,
according to the present state of life in Mayo, simply a "strong place," duly fortified and
garrisoned against the enemy.

It must be confessed that the proprietress who has a police detachment opposite to her gate,
and lives in a house defended by iron bars and chains, has some reason for her precautions
against surprise. She was shot at through the window of her own house not very long ago. Now
this experience of being shot at acts variously on different minds. Mr. Smith, the Marquis
of Sligo's agent, whose son returned fire and killed the intending assassin, took the matter
as an incident of business in the West, and is not a whit less cheery and happy than before
the attack at Claggan Mountain. It is also true that Miss Gardiner is not an atom less personally
brave than Mr. Smith. It is said that she carries a revolver in the pocket of her shooting-jacket,
and only asks for an escort of armed constabulary when she goes into Ballina. But she, nevertheless,
thinks it well to convert her home into a fortress--perhaps the only one of the kind now extant
in Europe. Here she dwells with a lady-companion, Miss Pringle, far out of range of such social
life as remains in the county, occupied nearly exclusively with the management of her estate;
a matter which, far from concerning herself alone, entails great vexation, embarrassment, and
expense upon others. The sending of bodies of constabulary half a hundred strong to protect
the officers of the law serving writs on Miss Gardiner's tenantry is a troublesome and costly
business, and has the effect of stirring up strife and exciting public opinion to no small
degree. As her property is widely scattered over Northern Mayo, there is generally something
going on in her behalf. One day there is an ejectment at Ballycastle; the next an abortive
attempt to evict at Cloontakilla. In the opinion of the poorer peasantry this eccentric lady
is a malevolent fiend, an "extherminathor," a tyrant striving to make the lives of the poor
so wretched as to drive them off her estate. "A sthrange lady is she, Sorr," cried one of her
tenants to me. "Och, she's a divil of a woman, entoirely. All she wants is to hunt the poor
off the face of the wor-r-rold." There are, however, to this question, as to every Irish question,
two sides--if not more. If Miss Gardiner "hunts" her tenants off her estate, Lord Erne's people
are just now trying their best to perform the same operation upon Captain Boycott.

It is not all at once that Farmhill has become a sort of dreary edition of Castle Rackrent,
oppressing the mind with almost inexpressible gloom. The owner's feud with her tenants began
long before the Land League was known. It is said in Northern Mayo that her father was the
first of the "exterminators," justly or unjustly so called, and that the traditions of the
family have been heartily carried out by his heiress. There is perhaps very little doubt that
Miss Gardiner, like Lord Lucan and the Marquis of Sligo, prefers large farmers as tenants to
a crowd of miserable peasants striving to extract a living for an entire family from a paltry
patch of five acres of poor land; but whatever her wish may be she has undoubtedly a large
number of small tenants on her estate at the present moment. It is therefore probable that
she is somewhat less of an exterminatrix than the exasperated people represent her to be. In
their eyes, however, she is guilty of the unpardonable crime of insisting upon her rent being
paid. Her formula is simple, "Give me my rent, or give me my land." In England and in some
other countries such a demand would be looked upon as perfectly reasonable; but "pay or go"
is in this part of Ireland looked upon as the option of an exterminator. Miss Gardiner merely
asks for her own, and judged by an English standard would appear to be a strange kind of Lady
Bountiful if she allowed her tenants to go on quietly living on her property without making
any show of payment. But this is very much what landlords are expected to do in county Mayo,
except in very good seasons. The majority of the people in the islands of Clew Bay have given
up the idea of paying rent as a bad job altogether, and these advanced spirits have many imitators
on the mainland. To the request, "Give me my rent, or give me my land," is made one eternal
answer, "And how can I pay the rent when the corn is washed away and the pitaties rot in the
ground? And if I give ye the land, hwhere am I to go, and my wife and my eight childher?" This
answer, long used as an argumentum ad misericordiam, is now defended by popular orators. No
longer ago than yesterday I heard it averred that the failure of the crop by the visitation
of God absolved the tenant from the payment of rent. The assumption of the speaker was that
landlord and tenant were in a manner partners, and that if the joint business venture produced
nothing the working partner could pay over no share of profit to the sleeping partner. Such
doctrine is naturally acceptable to the tenant. It signifies that in bad years the landlord
gets nothing; in good years, what the tenant pleases to give him, after buying manure and paying
up arrears of debt all round. It is, however, hardly surprising that the landlords see the
question through a differently tinted medium. They entertain an idea that the land is their
property, and, like any other commodity, should be let or sold to a person who can pay for
it. Strict and downright "landlordism," as it is called, as if it were a disease like "Daltonism,"
does not see things through a medium charged with the national colour, and Miss Gardiner is
a true type of downright landlordism such as would not be complained of in England, but in
Ireland is viewed with absolute abhorrence.

As a proof how utterly an exacting landlord puts himself, if not outside of the law, yet beyond
any claim to public sympathy, I may cite the conduct of Mr. James C. MacDonnell, the sub-sheriff
of this county. I have the story from an intimate friend of that gentleman, on whose veracity
I can implicitly rely. I say this because I did not in the first place pay much attention to
the story, but have since been enabled to verify it in every particular. Last spring Mr. MacDonnell,
in his capacity as sub-sheriff, was required by Miss Gardiner to serve notices of ejectment
against about a score of her tenants who had not paid up. There was great excitement when it
became known that twenty families would be evicted from their holdings, and a breach of the
peace appeared very probable. In England the public voice would possibly be in favour of executing
the law at all hazards. Some of the tenants owed two years' rent. The patience of the landlord
was exhausted. The tenants would neither pay nor take themselves off. There was no option but
to evict them; the sub-sheriff must do his duty, backed by as large a body of constabulary
as might be necessary. Law and order must be enforced. This would be the view taken in any
other place but this, but in Ireland the matter appeared in a totally different light. To begin
with, the idea of blood being shed in order that Miss Gardiner might get in her rents appeared
utterly preposterous. Secondly, the two past crops had completely failed in Mayo. Thirdly,
the bad crops of 1878 and 1879 in England had prevented the Mayo men from earning the English
harvest money on which they entirely depend for their rent, and much more than their rent.
Finally, the sub-sheriff himself, who, despite his being at once a proprietor, a middleman,
and an officer of the law, has won popularity by sheer weight of character, felt a natural
reluctance to enforce his authority. Compelled to execute the law, he determined to make a
personal appeal to the tenants before evicting them. Accordingly, he adjured them to get together
a little money to show that they really meant to act well and honestly, and that he would then
help them himself. The matter ended in his advancing them about 140l. out of his own pocket,
on their notes of hand, and paying Miss Gardiner, who observed that "he had done well for her
tenants, but not so well for her." To the credit of the tenants helped by Mr. MacDonnell it
must be added that all have met their notes save two or three, who among them owe but 15l.
This little story is entirely typical of the kindliness and honesty of Mayo men, and of their
peculiar ideas of right and justice. Miss Gardiner's tenants would not pay her a shilling;
they were prepared to resist eviction by force, and would have been backed by the whole country
side, but they paid the sub-sheriff with the first money they got. He had stood their friend,
and they could not act meanly towards him.

As a contrast to this pleasant picture I am compelled to draw one not altogether so agreeable.
I mentioned in a previous letter a particularly "tough customer" who, owing £24 for three years'
rent, would part neither with a single shilling nor with the land. I thought this champion
of the irreconcilables must be worth a visit, and foregoing the diversion of a call on Tom
Molloy, a noted character in the Ballina district, I drove out in the direction of Cloontakilla.
On the way to that dismal spot by a diabolical road I passed a homestead, so neat and trim,
standing on the hillside clear of trees, that I at once asked if it were not owned by a Scotchman,
and was answered that Mr. Petrie was indeed a Scot and a considerable tenant farmer. On one
side of his farm was a knot of dismantled houses, telling their story plainly and pathetically
enough, and on the further side stood a row of hovels, only one of which was uninhabited. The
locked-up cabin had a brace of bullet-holes in the door, those which caused a great deal of
trouble some time since. A Mr. Joynt it seems, in a wild freak, fired his gun through the door
of the cabin occupied by Mistress Murphy, who with her children is now about to join her husband
in America. Instead of being frightened the courageous matron opened the door, issued therefrom
armed with a fire-shovel and administered to the delinquent "the greatest batin' begorra" my
informant had ever heard of. Afterwards the law was invoked against Mr. Joynt, who was esteemed
very lucky in escaping punishment on account of his ill-health. A little further on, still
to the right of the road, branched off suddenly a narrow bridle-path, or "boreen," as it is
called in this part of the country. It was my car-driver, a teetotaller, opined on this "boreen,"
that the irreconcilable tenant, one Thomas Browne, dwelt. There were doubts in his mind; but,
nevertheless, we turned on to the wretched track, and tried to get the car over the stones
and mud-lakes which formed it. It could not be strictly called a road of any kind, but was
rather a space left between two deep ditches of black peat-oozings from the bog. Finding progress
almost impossible, we at last forsook the car. I can quite imagine an impatient reader asking
why we did not get out and walk at first; but the option was hardly a simple one. By walking
the horse and letting the car swing and jolt along one experienced the combined agonies of
sea-sickness and rheumatism, with the additional chance of being shot headlong into the inky
ditch on either side. By taking to what the driver called "our own hind legs," we accepted
an ankle-deep plod through filth indescribable and treacherous boulders, which turned over
when trust and sixteen stone were reposed on them. It was at this part of the journey that
I saw for the first time the Mountain Sylph. Some women and children, who looked very frightened,
cleared away towards their wretched dwellings, and the place would presently have been deserted
had not my driver roared at the top of his voice, "Hullo, the gyurl!" Presently, out of the
crowd of frightened people sprang a "colleen" of about twelve years, as thinly and scantily
clad as is consistent with that decency and modesty for which Irishwomen of the poorer classes
are so justly celebrated. Her legs and feet were bare, as a matter of course; a faded red petticoat,
or rather kilt, and a "body" of some indescribable hue, in which dirt largely predominated,
formed all her visible raiment and adornment, except a mass of fair hair, which fluttered wildly
in the cutting wind. Skipping from stone to stone she neared us swiftly, and stood still at
last perched on a huge boulder--an artist's study of native grace and beauty--with every rag
instinct with "wild civility." An inquiry whether "Misther Browne" was at home was met by the
polite answer that he was from home "just thin," almost instantly supplemented by "Oi know
hwhere he is, and will fetch him to ye, sorr." And away went the Sylph dancing from spot to
spot like the will-o'-the-wisp of her native bog. She had also indicated the dwelling of Thomas
Browne, and I pushed on in that direction through a maze of mud. At last I came to a turning
into a path several degrees worse in quality than the "boreen," and concluded that, as it was
nearly impassable, it must lead to the home of the Irreconcilable. As a change it was pleasant
to step from deep slippery mud and slime on to stones placed with their acutest angles upwards,
but a final encounter with these landed me literally at Mr. Browne's homestead.

It has been my lot at various times to witness the institution known as "home" in a state of
denudation, as my scientific friends would call it. It is not necessary to go far from the
site of Whitechapel Church to find dwellings unutterably wretched. Two years ago I saw people
reduced to one "family" pair of boots in Sheffield, and without food, or fire to cook it with
if they had had it; and I have seen a Cornish woman making turnip pie. But for general misery
I think the home of the Browne family at Cloontakilla equals, and more than equals anything
I have seen during a long experience of painful sights. The road to it as already described,
is a quagmire, and the dwelling, when arrived at, exceeds the wildest of nightmares. Part of
the stone wall has fallen in, and the two rooms which remain have the ground for a carpet and
miserable starved-looking thatch for a roof. The horses and cattle of every gentleman in England,
and especially Mr. Tankerville Chamberlayne's Berkshire pigs, are a thousand times better lodged
than the family of the irreconcilable Browne. The chimney, if ever there were one, has long
since "caved in" and vanished, and the smoke from a few lumps of turf burning on the hearth
finds its way through the sore places in the thatch. In a bed in the corner of the room lies
a sick woman, coughing badly; near her sits another woman, huddled over the fire. Now, I have
been quite long enough in the world to be suspicious, and had it been possible for these poor
people to have known of my coming I should certainly have been inclined to suspect a prepared
scene. But this was impossible, for even my car-driver did not know where he was going till
he started. And as we could not find the house without the Mountain Sylph, the inference must
be in favour of all being genuine. There are no indications of cooking going on, and, bating
an iron pot, a three-legged stool, a bench, half a dozen willow-pattern dishes, and a few ropes
of straw suspended from the roof with the evident object of supporting something which is not
there, no signs of property are visible. And this is the outcome of a farm of five acres--Irish
acres, be it well understood. There is nothing at all to feed man, wife, sister-in-law, son,
and daughter during the winter, and the snow is already lying deep on Nephin.

While my inspection of the Browne domicile has been going on, the Mountain Sylph has vanished,
never more to be seen. Whether she disappeared in the peat-smoke or sank gracefully into the
parent bog it is impossible to decide; but it is quite certain that she has faded out of sight.
Poor Mountain Sylph! When she grows older, and goes out to earn money as a work-girl in Ballina,
she will no longer appear picturesque, but ridiculous. She will wear a cheap gown, but of the
latest fashion, and a knowing-looking hat flung on at a killing angle; and she will don smart
boots while she is in Ballina, and will take them off before she is far on her way to Cloontakilla,
and trudge along the road as barefooted as of old. But she will never more be a Mountain Sylph--only
a young woman proudly wearing a bonnet and mantle at which Whitechapel would turn up its nose
in disdain. But the Sylph has gone, and in her place stands the Irreconcilable himself--a grey-haired
man with bent shoulders and well-cut features, which account for the good looks of the Sylph.
He is a sorrowful man; but, like all Irishmen, especially when in trouble, is not wanting in
loquacity. He shows me his "far-r-rum," as he calls it, and it is a poor place. He has had
a good harvest enough; but what does it all amount to? An acre (English) of oats, mayhap a
couple of acres of potatoes and cabbages, and the rest pasture, except a little patch on which,
he tells me, he grew vetches in summer for sale as green feed for cattle. Of beasts he has
none, except dogs of some breed unknown either to dog-fanciers or naturalists, and an ass--the
unfortunate creature who is made to drink the dregs of any sorrow falling upon Western Ireland.
Put to work when not more than a year old, the poor animal becomes a stunted, withered phantasm
of the curled darlings of the London costermongers which excited the kindly feelings of Lord
Shaftesbury and the Baroness Burdett-Coutts.

A Mayo donkey is a wretched creature, and Mr. Browne has a very poor specimen of an under-fed,
overworked race. But there is a cow browsing in the field, and the tenant hastens to explain
that she is not his own, but the absolute property of his sister-in-law. I must confess that
I cool somewhat after this--inwardly that is--towards the Irreconcilable in battered corduroys
who amuses me with a string of stories more or less veracious. I am required to believe that
"bating the ass," no living beast on the five-acre farm belongs to the tenant. The turkeys
belong to a neighbour, as do the geese, and there is neither hen nor egg left on the premises.
"And where is everything?" I naturally ask.

"And the neighbours is good to me, sorr, and they reaped my oats for me in a day, and carried
'um in a night. And my pitaties they dug for me, and carried all clane away before the sheriff
could come. And when Mr. MacDonnell did come my wife was sick in bed, and the house was full
of people, and all he could do was to consult the doctor and go away."

Now, as the basis for a burlesque or Christmas pantomime, in which the Good Fairy warns the
tenant to remove his crops lest the Demon Landlord should seize upon them--the tenant being
of course transmuted into Harlequin and the landlord into Clown--this would be funny enough;
but it is difficult to see how the everyday business of life could be carried on under such
conditions. The case of Miss Gardiner against Thomas Browne is one purely of hide and seek.
When he owed two years' rent he begged for time on account of two bad crops. When he was threatened
with eviction he begged time to get in his crop. It was given to him. It is quite easy to understand
that a tenant who has been thirty years on a little holding thinks himself entitled to great
lenity, especially if his rent has been raised during that period, and, as this man asserts,
his "turbary" rights restricted, and every kind of privilege reduced. But it has been said
by a great literary and social authority that there are such things as limits. Now this man,
Browne, feeling that he had an execution hanging over him, contrived to temporise until his
grain and potatoes were secured, and then, aided by the accident of a sick wife, defied the
law. The house was full of people, a doctor said that the woman could not be removed, and the
sub-sheriff, backed by fifty policemen, could make nothing of the business without incurring
the odium of tearing a sick woman from her bed. He offered the irreconcilable Browne the offer
of accepting the ejectment and remaining in the house as "caretaker," but the tenant was staunch
and would make no terms. The consequence is that when Miss Gardiner again attempts to evict
him she must incur the considerable cost of a new writ. The condition of affairs now is that
a tenant owing three years' rent, and not having paid a shilling on account, simply defies
the landlord and remains in his wretched holding, having possibly--for the Irish are an intelligent
as well as good-humoured people--the proceeds of his miserable little harvest to live upon
through the winter months. Mr. Browne is, I doubt me, not very rigid as to his duties, and
takes but an imperfect view of financial obligations; but he is horribly poor, nevertheless,
and is as much a type of his class as Miss Gardiner of hers.

V.

FROM MAYO TO CONNEMARA.

LEENANE, Tuesday, Nov 2.

The meeting which took place on Sheehane Hill was only remarkable as affording an additional
proof of the extraordinary faculty of selection possessed by Western Irishmen. Whether they
intend to shoot a landlord or merely to hold a meeting to bring him to his bearings, they choose
their ground with equal discrimination. In the former case a spot is selected at the descent
or ascent of a hill, so that the carriage of the victim cannot be going at a sufficient pace
to defeat the marksman's aim, and a conveniently protected angle, with facilities for escape,
is occupied by the ambuscade. In the latter, either a natural amphitheatre or a conspicuous
hill is pitched upon for the gathering. To the picturesque Mayo mind a park meeting on a dead
flat would be the most uninteresting affair possible unless vitality were infused into the
proceedings by a conflict with the police, which would naturally atone for many shortcomings.
The meeting at Tiernaur was held in the midst of magnificent scenery, and that on Sheehane
was equally well selected. From the top of the hill, which is crowned by a large tumulus, the
country around for many miles lay spread like a map; and, what was of more immediate importance,
the small additional hill afforded a convenient spot for posting the orators and displaying
the banners of the various organizations represented at the meeting. The demonstration, however,
could hardly be represented as successful--not more than a thousand persons being present.
It was weary waiting until the proceedings commenced, the only diversion being provided by
a hare which got up in an adjacent field. In a moment greyhounds, bull-dogs, terriers, and
mongrels were in pursuit, followed by the assembled people. The hare, however, completely distanced
both dogs and spectators, and was in comparative safety several fields away from the foremost
greyhound, when she doubled back in an unaccountable manner, and ran into the midst of the
crowd, who set upon her with sticks, and killed her in the most unsportsmanlike manner. A man
next held poor puss over his head as if she were a fox, and a voice went up "That's the way
to serve the landlords." This ebullition was followed by shouts of "Down wid 'em!" and the
meeting on Sheehane became more cheerful. It was recollected that O'Connell once held a meeting
on the same spot, and that the hare and the meetings were both mentioned by the prophet Columbkill.

Of the speeches it need only be said that what they lacked in elegance was made up in violence.
The speeches made in the North were oddly designated "seditious," and every kind of reprisal
was hinted at in the event of Mr. Parnell being arrested. If he were seized, not a landlord
in Ireland would be safe except in Dublin Castle. This kind of thing, accompanied by shouts
of "Down wid 'em!" at every mention of the abhorred landlords, became very tedious, especially
in a high wind and drifting rain. The meeting gradually became thinner and thinner, and finally
faded out altogether. It is quite true that such gatherings may have a powerful effect upon
the vivacious Celt, but if so, it is quite beneath the surface, for the people seemed to take
little interest in the proceedings. To all outward show the oratory at Sheehane produced no
more serious impression than that at Tiernaur on the preceding Sunday. Yet there is something
in the air, for the first thing I heard on returning to Westport was that Mr. Barbour's herdsman,
who lives at Erriff Bridge, had been warned to leave his master's service. The "herd" (as he
is called here, as well as on the Scottish border) is in great alarm. He cannot afford to leave
his place, for it is his sole means of subsistence, and if turned out in the world the poor
fellow might starve. Now it is a disagreeable thing to think you will starve if you leave,
and be shot if you remain at your work; but I hear that the "herd" has asked for protection
and will try to weather it out. His master, Mr. Barbour, and Mr. Mitchell hold each about half
of the great farm formerly held of Lord Sligo by Captain Houstoun, the husband of the well-known
authoress. Large numbers of black-faced sheep and polled Galloways are raised by Mr. Barbour,
who lives at Dhulough, in the house formerly occupied by Captain Houstoun.

I have just come from Westport to this place, the mountain scenery around which is magnificent.
On the lofty heights of "the Devil's Mother," a famous mountain of this country, the sheep
are seen feeding almost on the same level as the haunt of the golden eagles who breed here
regularly. I believe that the valley of the Erriff was once well populated, but that after
the famine the people were cleared off nearly 20 square miles of land to make way for the great
grazing farm now divided between two occupants. As I have stated in previous letters, the resentment
of the surrounding inhabitants at this depopulation of a vast tract of country is ineradicable.
In the wretched huts which appear at wide intervals on the sea-shore the miserable people sit
over the fire and talk of the old times when they might go from Clifden to Westport and find
friends nearly everywhere on the road, while now from the last-named place to this--a distance
of 18 Irish miles--the country is simply wild mountain, moor, and bog, bating the little Ulster
Protestant village, not far from Westport (a curious relic of '98), a few herds-men's huts,
and the police-station at Erriff Bridge. To those who, like myself, love animals, the drive
is by no means uninteresting. As the car jolts along past "Hag's Valley," a dozen curlews take
wing, and a little further on the shrill cry of the redshank strikes on the ear. Now and then
a hare will start among the bent-grass, while aloft the falcon rests poised on her mighty wing.
But saving these wild animals, the beautiful blackfaced sheep, and black Galloway calves, the
country has no inhabitants. What little was once cultivated has reverted to rough pasture,
covered with bent or sedge and a little grass, or to bog impassable to man or any creature
heavier than the light-footed fox, who attains among these mountains to extraordinary size
and beauty. But hares and grouse, and even stray pheasants from Mr. Mitchell Henry's woods
at Kylemore, will not convince the fragment of population around the great grazing farms that
things are better now than of yore; and there is some reason for believing that disturbance
is to be apprehended in this part of the country. The warning to Mr. Barbour's unfortunate
herd can hardly be a separate and solitary act of intimidation and oppression. The work of
one herd is of no great matter. But the distinct warning given to the poor man at Erriff Bridge
to give up his livelihood on the first instant is possibly part of a settled scheme to reduce
great grazing farmers to the same condition as landlords. They are to be frightened away, in
order that squatters may pasture their cattle on "the Devil's Mother," as the Tiernaur people
have done theirs on Knockdahurk. Nothing would surprise me less than a strike against anybody
in this neighbourhood.

If one may judge by the language used yesterday at Westport Fair, at which I was glad to discover
more outward evidence of prosperity than had yet come under my observation in this part of
Ireland, the landlords and their agents are determined to make another effort to get in their
rents in January. Their view of the case is that the law must assist them: but whatever abstract
idea of the majesty of the law may exist elsewhere is obviously foreign to those parts of Connaught
which I have visited. It is urged day after day upon me by high as well as low, that if Sir
Robert Blosse and Lord De Clifford can get in their rents without "all the king's horses and
all the king's men," other landlords must try to do the same. To prevent misconception, I will
aver, even at the risk that I may seem to "protest too much," that this argument is not thrust
upon me by the Land League, but by persons who are proprietors themselves. It is held ridiculous,
in this section of the country, that enormous expense should be thrown upon the county in order
that the rents of certain landlords may be collected. There is, it must be admitted, a rational
indisposition in the West to ascribe any particularly sacred character to rent as distinguished
from any other debt. This is an agreeable feature in the Irish character. In some other countries
there prevails a preposterous notion that rent must be paid above and before all things, as
a species of solemn obligation. Until the other day there prevailed in Scotland the almost
insane law of hypothec, which allowed a landlord to pursue his tenant's goods even into the
hands of an "innocent holder." But there is no argument in favour of the landlord which any
other creditor might not advance with equally good reason. The butcher, the baker, the clothier,
as well as the farmer, the dealer in feeding-cake and manure, have claims quite as good as
that of the landlord, and, as they think, a great deal better. Tradesmen who have fed and clothed
people, and others who have helped them to fatten their land and their cattle, think their
claims paramount. It is of the nature of every creditor to think he has the right to be paid
before anybody else. But the landlord, probably because landlords made the law, such as it
is, has a claim which he can enforce, or rather just now seeks to enforce, by the aid of armed
intervention. The civil bill creditor can only levy execution where anything exists to levy
upon; but the landlord can turn his tenants out of doors and put the key in his pocket--that
is, theoretically. But, it is argued, if this cannot be done without the aid of an army, it
would be better for the majority of peaceable inhabitants if it were left alone. It is not
easy to predict the state of popular feeling here in January next; but it is quite certain
that attempts to evict, if made now, would be met by armed resistance. I have already stated
that Mayo is armed to the teeth, and I have good reason for believing county Galway to be in
a similar condition. This being fairly well known on the spot, it is quite easy to understand
how any resolution to commence a landlords' crusade is received by the public.

LETTERFRACK, CONNEMARA, Wednesday.

At this pretty village, in the most beautiful part of the West of Ireland, I hear that the
disinclination to pay rent and the desire to "hunt" grazing farmers out of the country have
spread to the once peaceful region of Connemara. Three years ago crime and police were alike
unknown. The people were poor, and preserved the sense of having been wronged. But theft and
violence, saving a broken head now and then, were unknown.

Within the last two years a great change has come over this remote corner of Ireland. Police
barracks have made their appearance, and outrages of the agrarian class have become disagreeably
frequent. Formerly cattle and sheep were as safe on the mountain as oats in the stackyard.
Now nobody of the grazing farmer class is entirely free from alarm. At any moment his animals
may be driven into the sea or his ricks fired. The population, if not so fully armed as that
of Mayo, is arming rapidly. To my certain knowledge revolvers and carbines are being distributed
among the peasantry of Connemara proper. This district--which including within its limits the
pretty village I write from, as well as Clifden and Ballynahinch, lies mainly between the seashore
and a line drawn from Leenane to Carna--has, during the last twelve months become disturbed
in such wise that it is impossible to shut one's eyes to the fact that here, as in Mayo, a
sort of dead set is being made against grazing farmers. It is true that life is not taken,
and, it may be added, not even threatened in Connemara proper, but outrages of a cowardly and
destructive kind are common. During last winter an epidemic of destruction broke out, the effect
of which may be seen in the large amount added to the county cess to give compensation to the
injured persons. The grand jury has levied altogether between seven and eight hundred pounds
more than usual. So ignorant or reckless are the destroyers, that they take no heed of what
is well understood in other places; to wit, that the amount of the damage done is levied upon
the adjacent townlands. Thus the addition to the county cess in Lettermore is 10s. 11½d. in
the 1l.; in Carna, 8s. 9½d.; and in Derryinver, 8s. 7½d.--a cruel additional burden on the
ratepayer. Some of the items are very large. To George J. Robinson was awarded 181l. for seventy-six
sheep and two rams "maliciously taken away, killed, maimed, and destroyed." To Hamilton C.
Smith three separate awards were made--28l. for four head of cattle driven or carried out to
sea and drowned; 21l. for fourteen sheep maliciously driven off and removed; and again 17l.
10s. for fourteen sheep similarly treated. Houses and boats have been burned, and even turf-ricks
destroyed. The object in all cases seems to have been to "hunt" the injured persons out of
the country in order that the neighbours might turn their cattle on to his grazing land, as
has been done in Mayo. In one conspicuous case these tactics have proved successful. Michael
O'Neil was awarded 120l. "to compensate him for ninety-six sheep, his property, maliciously
taken or carried away and destroyed, at Tonadooravaun, in the parish of Ballynakill." This
sum is levied off the fourteen adjacent townlands, among which is the unlucky Lettermore, just
quoted as paying an enormous addition to the county cess. Michael O'Neil, who appears to have
been a respectable man, not otherwise objectionable than as the tenant of more grazing land
than was considered his share by his neighbours, has received his 120l., and is so far reimbursed;
but he thought it better to obey the popular will than to attempt to stand against it, and
gave up his farm accordingly. Such deeds as the frightening of "decent people" out of Connemara
by maiming cattle and burning houses, which must be paid for by the offending districts, speak
more distinctly than any words could do of the ignorance of this part of the wild West. So
wild is it that although the Roman Catholic clergy of Connemara adhere to the elsewhere-obsolete
practice of holding "stations" for confession, there are many dwellers on the mountain who
have never received any religious instruction. Chapels are few and remote from each other,
and even the "stations" kept for the purpose of getting at the scattered population only attract
those dwelling within reasonable distances. The poor mountaineers in the neighbourhood of the
Recess Valley and away over the hills seldom go far enough from home to rub shoulders with
civilisation. Many of them have never seen bigger places than Letterfrack and Leenane, and
those perhaps not fifty times in their lives.

The islanders of Clew Bay are almost as difficult to assist and to improve as the highlanders
of Joyce's country, Southern Mayo, and Great and Little Connemara; but for an opposite reason.
The latter are thinly scattered on the fringe of the grazing farms, while the former are crowded
together on islands inadequate to support them. This question of space assumes a curious importance
in Ireland owing to the want of other industry than such as is intimately connected with the
land. With the exception of a few manufacturing districts in Ulster, which is altogether another
country from Connaught, there are no industries in Ireland independent of the produce of arable
land and pasture. What is to be enjoyed by the people must be got out of the land, and this
in a country where nobody will turn to and work hard as a cultivator so long as he can graze,
"finish," or "job" cattle, sheep, or horses. I was citing to a Mayo-man this defect of the
so-called farmer, and was at once met by a prompt reply. The tendency to graze cattle, which
is not hard work, and to "gad" about to cattle fairs, which are esteemed the greatest diversion
the country affords, is an indication of the distinct superiority of the quick-witted Celt
to the dull Saxon hind. An Irish peasant cultivator is a being of greater faculty of expansion
than Wessex Hodge. He is profoundly ignorant and absurdly superstitious, but he is naturally
keen-witted, and his innate gifts are brightened by contact with his fellow man. He is not
a ploughman, for he often cultivates with the spade alone, and he has, besides his oats, his
potatoes, his cabbages, and mayhap a few turnips, and a variety of animals, all of which he
understands--or misunderstands. If a holder of twenty or thirty, or, still better, forty acres,
he will have a horse, a cow, a beast or two, a few sheep, and some turkeys and geese. It is
possible to have all these on fifteen acres or less of fairly good land, and then the Western
peasant cultivator becomes a many-sided man by dint of buying and selling stock--that is, he
acquires the sort of intelligence possessed by a smart huckster. This is held to be cleverness
in these parts, and undoubtedly gives its possessor a greater "faculty of expansion" than the
career of an Essex or Wessex ploughman or carter. But what is peculiarly pertinent to the burning
question of peasant cultivators and proprietors is the tendency, perpetually visible in the
Western Irishman, to fly off at a tangent from agriculture to grazing. According to an ancient
and indurated belief in all this section of the country, animals ought to get fat on the pasture
provided by nature. I am told that thirty years ago there was not a plough in existence from
Westport to Dhulough, and that the turnip was an unknown vegetable in Connemara. The notion
of growing turnips and mangolds in a country made for root crops was at first not well received.
"Bastes" had done hitherto on the rough mountain pasture "well enough;" which signified that
no properly fatted animal had ever been seen around the Twelve Pins.

Now that the Connemara man here and there has been taught to grow root crops for cattle he
begins to yield, and feeds his beasts, sometimes, on roots instead of sedge. Thus far he has
become a cultivator; but I have my doubts whether the hard work of tillage suits him well.
To get good crops off a little farm is an undertaking which requires "sticking to work." It
is not so pleasant by a great deal as looking at cattle and taking them to market. Hence the
tilled part of an Irish farm in the West nearly always bears a very small proportion to that
under pasture. It is only quite recently that artificial feeding for cattle has been resorted
to, and compelled the farmer to grow root crops. Perhaps, in the present condition of the market
for beasts and grain the nimble-minded Celt is hitting the right nail on the head, and cattle
and dairy farms are the future of the agriculturist, who will compete against American meat
with English produce fed upon English grass and roots, and upon maize imported from the New
World. I prefer, however, to leave this possibility for the discussion of Mr. Caird and Mr.
Clare Read, and to confine myself to the fact that the Western cultivator is far less a farmer
than a cattle-jobber or gambler in four-legged stock.

The poor inhabitants of the islands between this place and Achill Point cannot certainly be
accused of a tendency to gad about. Almost everybody blames their dull determination to remain
at home. They are, I doubt, neither good fishermen nor good farmers--at least, I know that
they neither catch fish nor pay their rent. Neither on Clare Island, Innishark, Innisbofin,
nor Innisturk is there any alacrity in making the slightest attempt to satisfy the landlord.
That these little tenants are only removed by a hairsbreadth from starvation at the best of
times will be gathered from the facts that Clare Island with 4,000 acres, some of which is
let at 10s. per acre, with common grazing rights "thrown in," is called upon to support nearly
seven hundred souls. A glance at the picturesque outline of the island will tell of the proportion
of "mountain," that is moor and bog, upon it, and it is at once seen that unless there is either
good fishing or some other source of supply the land cannot keep the people. No better proof
can be given than that of the greatest tenant, who pays 55l. a year for some five hundred acres.
In Innisbofin and Innishark are at least 1,500 individuals, nearly all very small tenants,
either on the brink of starvation or pretending to be so. It is nearly as impossible to extract
any rent from them as from the twenty-three families on Innisturk, an island belonging to Lord
Lucan, whose rents are farmed, so far as Innisturk is concerned, by Mr. MacDonnell, the sub-sheriff,
who is said to have a bad bargain. Lord Lucan, of course, receives his 150l. yearly from his
"middleman," who is left to fight it out with the people, and get 230l., the price at which
the land is let, out of them, if he can. Just now he is getting nothing, and the situation
is becoming strained. The people pay no rent, the sub-sheriff, is not only losing his margin
of profit but cannot get 150l. a year out of them. They said they liked him well enough but
would not pay a "middleman's" profit, whereupon he offered to take the exact amount he contracts
to pay to Lord Lucan, and forego his profit altogether; but this proposition, after being received
with some amusement, was not declined exactly, but, in American language, "let slide." And
nothing has been or can be done. For if it were attempted to evict the Innisturk people the
evictors would be accused of hurling an entire population into the sea.

The more that is seen of the people of far Western Connaught the more distinct becomes the
conviction that the present difficulty is rather social and economic than political. It is
far more a question, apparently, of stomach than of brain. The complaints which are poured
out on every side refer not in the least to politics. Very few in Mayo, and hardly anybody
at all in Connemara, seem to take any account of Home Rule, or of any other rule except that
of the Land League. The possibility of a Parliament on College-green affects the people of
the West far less than the remotest chance of securing some share of the land. If ever popular
disaffection were purely agrarian, it is now, so far as this part of Ireland is concerned.
Orators and politicians from O'Connell until now have spoken of Repeal and Reform; but it is
more than probable that the Connaught peasant always understood that he was to be emancipated
from some of his burdens. All his ideas are dominated by the single one of land. He knows and
cares for very little else. He is superstitious to an astounding degree, and his ignorance
passes all understanding--that is, on every subject but the single one of land. And the land
he knows of is that in his own county, or home section of a county. But his knowledge of this
is singularly and curiously exact. Either by his own experience or by tradition he is perfectly
acquainted with the topography of his own locality and with the history of its present and
former proprietors and occupants. With perfect precision he will point out a certain tract
of country and tell how, in the old, old time, it was, "reigned over" by the O'Flahertys, and
then was owned by the Blakes, who disposed of part of their country to the present possessors.
He knows perfectly well how the great Martin country came first into the hands of the Law Life
Insurance Company, and then into those of Mr. Berridge, and how the latter gentleman came down
to Ballynahinch, of the traditional avenue, extending for forty miles to Galway. More than
this, he knows how an island was bought by its present owner with so much on it due to the
above-named society. Moreover, he knows the site and size of the villages depopulated by famine,
emigration, or the "exterminator," and in many cases the very names of the former tenants.
He is a man of one idea--that the country was once prosperous and is now wretched, not in consequence
of natural causes but of oppression and mismanagement. When he shouted in favour of Repeal
he meant Land. When he applauded Disestablishment and Denominational Schools he meant Land,
Land, nothing but Land. At last his dominant feeling is candidly expressed when he cries out
against landlords, "Down wid 'em!"

In one of those neat remarks, distracting attention from the real point at issue, for which
Lord Beaconsfield is justly famous, he expressed an opinion that "the Irish people are discontented
because they have no amusements." Like all such sayings, it is true as far as it goes. Despite
dramatists, novelists and humorists, Ireland is singularly barren of diversion. In a former
letter I pointed out that the only relaxation from dreary toil enjoyed in Mayo is found at
the cattle-fairs, and little country races to which they give rise. There are no amusements
at all at Connemara. One ballad-singer and one broken-legged piper are the only ministers to
public hilarity that I have yet seen. Nothing more dreary can be imagined than the existence
of the inhabitants. When by rare good luck a peasant secures road-work or other employment
from a proprietor at once sufficiently solvent and public-spirited to undertake any enterprise
for the improvement of the country, he will walk for a couple or three hours to his work and
then go on with it till dinner-time. But it is painfully significant that the word "dinner"
is never used in this connection. The foreman does not say that the dinner hour has arrived,
but "Now, boys, it is time to eat your bit o' bread." The expression is painfully exact; for
the repast consists of a bit of bread and perhaps a bottle of milk. Indian corn meal is the
material of the bit of bread, a heavy square block unskilfully made, and so unattractive in
appearance that no human being who could get anything else would touch it. Then the man works
on till it is time to trudge over the mountain to the miserable cabin he imagines to be a home,
and meet his poor wife, weary with carrying turf from a distant bog, and his half-clad and
more than half-starved children. Luckily the year has been a good one for drying peat, and
one necessity for supporting human life is supplied. What the condition of the people must
be when fuel is scarce is too terrible to think of.

I esteem myself fortunate in being enabled to describe what the life of the Connemara peasant
is under favourable circumstances. His abject misery in years of famine and persistent rain,
when crops fail and peat cannot be dried, may be left to the imagination. Potatoes raised from
the "champion" seed introduced during the distress last year are, if not plentiful, yet sufficient,
perhaps, for the present, in the localities to which a good supply of seed was sent; but I
should not like to speculate on the probable condition of affairs in March next. I have also
spoken of such a peasant as has been fortunate enough to obtain work at nine shillings a week,
esteemed a fair rate hereabouts. But in truth there is very little work to be had; for the
curse of absenteeism sits heavily on the West. Four great landed proprietors, who together
have drawn for several years past about 70,000l. from their estates in Mayo, Galway, and Clare,
have not, I am assured, ever spent 10,000l. a year in this country. As with the land itself,
crop after crop has been gathered and no fertiliser has been put in. The peasant is now aware
of as many of such facts as apply to his own locality, and this knowledge, coupled with hard
work and hunger, has aroused a discontent not to be easily appeased. To him his forefathers
appear to have led happy lives. It would be beyond my purpose to discuss whether the good old
times ever existed, either here or anywhere else. My object just now is simply to reflect the
peasant's mind, after having endeavoured, so far as is possible in this place, to verify the
facts adduced by him, and I may add generally admitted by others.

The peasant looks lovingly on the tradition of the old time when the native proprietors dwelt
among their people, without reflecting that it was the almost insane recklessness and extravagance
of the hereditary lords of the soil which led to the breaking up of their estates among purchasers
who had no kind of sympathy with the inhabitants. But good or bad, as they may have been, the
names of the Martins, the O'Flahertys, the Joyces, and the Lynches are still held in honour,
although their descendants may have disappeared altogether, or remained on a tenth or twentieth
part of the vast possessions once held by their family. Some of the present representatives,
however, are unpopular from no fault of their own. To cite a typical case. There is a large
estate between this place and Clifden, the present holders of which should hardly be held responsible
for the faults of their ancestors. A very large part of it has been sold outright and is in
good hands. The remainder is strictly settled on a minor, and is mortgaged, in the language
of the country, "up to the mast-head." Naturally the guardians of the minor are unwilling that
the estate should be sold up, all possibility of improvement and recovery sacrificed, and themselves
erased from the list of the county gentry. Landlords have as much objection to eviction and
compulsory emigration as tenants, and are as much inclined to cling to their land, hoping for
better things. Thus arises a state of affairs against which the peasant at last shows signs
of revolt. Physically and mentally neglected for centuries by his masters, he has found within
the last fifty years neglect exchanged for extortion and oppression. To prevent the sale of
the property, the owners or trustees must pay the interest on the encumbrances. Moreover, they,
being only human, think themselves entitled to a modest subsistence out of the proceeds of
the property. To pay the interest and secure this "margin" for themselves there are only two
ways--to wring the last shilling out of the wretched tenants, to first deprive them of their
ancient privileges, and then charge them extra dues for exercising them, or to let every available
inch of mountain pasture to a cattle-farmer, whose herds take very good care that the cottier's
cow does not get "the run of the mountain" at their master's expense.

This "run of the mountain" appears to have been the old Irish analogue of the various kinds
of rights of common in England, which have for the most part been lost to the poorer folk,
not always without a struggle with the neighbouring landlord or lord of the manor. I hear from
almost every place a complaint that within thirty or forty years the "run of the mountain"
has been taken from the people and let to graziers. On the legal merits of the case I cannot
at this moment pretend to decide, but inasmuch as this addition to an ordinary holding survives
on some estates, there appears strong ground for believing that the practice was general. Where
the cattle-run remains it is mapped out as a "reserve" for a certain townland, and is greatly
prized by the peasants. It may therefore be imagined that those from whom it has been taken
by the strong hand are bitterly resentful, and even where the change was made so long as twenty-five
or thirty years ago nourish a deeply-rooted sense of wrong. It is absurd to suppose that when
the act of spoliation took place village Hampdens could spring up on every hill-side in Connemara.
Owing to the neglect of those who were responsible for their condition, they were the most
ignorant and superstitious people in the British Islands. Landlords were not yet awakened to
a sense that their tenants should at least be taught to read; and Connemara was esteemed, I
am told, as a kind of penal settlement for priests who had not proved shining lights in more
civilised communities. The latter reproach can no longer be brought, for the zeal and activity
of the local clergy are conspicuous; and where the children are within any reasonable distance
of a school they come readily to it, and prove bright and apt scholars. But when the "run of
the mountain" was seized upon by many proprietors, the people were mentally, if not bodily,
in a swinish condition. The idea of any right which a landlord was bound to respect had not
dawned upon them, and, if it had, prompt vengeance would have descended on the village Hampden
in the shape of a notice to quit, and he whose conception of the world was limited to his native
mountains would have been turned out upon them with his wife and children to die.

I hear on very good authority that the purchaser of part of one of the old estates has acquired
an unpleasant notoriety in his management of the land. I am compelled to believe that in the
old period the peasants enjoyed their little holdings at a very low rent. Moreover these holdings
were not all "measured on 'um," as one of my informants phrased it, but were often composed
of two or more patches, bits of productive land, taken here and there on the rough mountain.
Doubtless this arrangement had its inconveniences, but the people were accustomed to it, and
also set great store by the run of the mountain, which they had, it seems, enjoyed without
let or hindrance from time immemorial. The first act of the new management was to "sthripe
the land on 'um," that is to mark it out into five-pound holdings, each in one "sthripe" or
block. This arrangement, which to the ordinary mind hardly appears unreasonable, was considered
oppressive by the tenants, who submitted, however, as was then the manner of their kind. They
had still the mountain, and could graze their cow or two, or their half-dozen sheep upon it,
and they naturally regarded this privilege as the most valuable part of their holding, inasmuch
as it paid their rent, clothed them, and supplied them with milk to drink with their potatoes.
In these days of alimentary science it is needless to remind readers that, humble as it appears,
a dinner of abundant potatoes and milk is a perfect meal, containing all the constituents of
human food--fat, starch, acids, and so forth.

Thus many of the tenants were, as they call it, "snug." Satisfied with little, they rubbed
on contentedly enough, only the more adventurous spirits going to England for the harvesting.
Then came serious changes. The rent of the five-pound holdings was raised to seven pounds,
and the mountain was taken away. The poor people protested that they had nothing to feed their
few animals upon on the paltry holdings of which a couple of acres might be available for tillage,
a couple more for grass, and the remaining two or three good for hardly anything. An answer
was given to them. If they must have the mountain they must pay for it--practically another
rise in the rent. To this they agreed perforce, and even to the extraordinary condition that
during a month or six weeks of the breeding season for grouse they should drive their tiny
flocks or herds off the mountain and on to their holdings, in order that the game might not
be disturbed at a critical period. I hear that for the last year rents have fallen into arrear,
and that the beasts of those who have not paid up have just been driven off the mountain.

I have cited this case as one of the proofs in my hands that the country is not overpopulated,
as has been so frequently stated. I drove over part of the estate mentioned, and questioned
some of the people as to the accuracy of the story already told to me, and the agreement was
so general that I am obliged to give credence to it. To talk of over-population in a country
with perhaps half-a-dozen houses per square mile, is absurd. What is called over-population
would be more accurately described as local congestion of population. The people who in their
little way were graziers and raisers of stock have been deprived of their cattle run, and having
no ground to raise turnips upon, cannot resort to artificial feeding. What was originally intended
to serve as a little homestead to raise food on for themselves is all they have left, and it
is now said that they are crowded together. It would be more correct to say that they have
been driven together like rats in the corner of a pit. As one steps out of one of their cabins
the eye ranges over a vast extent of hill, valley, and lake--as fair a prospect as could be
gazed upon. Yet the few wretched inhabitants are cooped within their petty holdings, and allowed
to do no more than look upon the immense space before them. Where there is so much room to
breathe they are stifled.

GALWAY, Tuesday, Nov. 9th.

On the long dreary road from Clifden to this place, the greater part of which is included in
the vaunted "avenue" to Ballynahinch, there is visible at ordinary times very little but mountain,
bog, and sky. Of stones and water, and of air marvellously bright and pure, there is no lack,
and some of the scenery is of surpassing grandeur, especially on a day like yesterday, so fair
and still that mountain and cloud alike were mirrored on the surface of a legion of lakes.
It was only when one reached the clump of trees which in these wild districts denotes the presence
of a house of the better sort that any symptoms of disturbance were seen. All was calm and
bright on Glendalough itself, but no sooner had I entered the grounds of the hotel than I became
aware of the presence of an armed escort. Presently Mr. Robinson, the agent for Mr. Berridge,
the purchaser of the "Martin property" from the Law Life Insurance Company, came out, jumped
on his car with his driver, and was immediately followed by the usual escort of two men armed
with double-barrelled carbines. A few minutes later I heard that Mr. Thompson's "herd" over
at Moyrus, near the sea-coast, had been badly beaten on Sunday night, or rather early yesterday
morning; and there were disquieting rumours of trouble impending at Lough Mask. If the Moyrus
story be true, it is noteworthy as marking a new line of departure in Connemara. Hitherto actual
outrages have been confined to property; persons have only been threatened, and few but agents
go in downright bodily fear. I have not heard why Mr. Thompson is unpopular; but can easily
understand that Mr. Robinson has become so. The management of 180,000 acres of poor country,
in some parts utterly desolate, in others afflicted with congested population, can hardly be
carried on without making some enemies. Moreover, I have no reason to believe that the vast
"Law Life" property has, since it passed out of the hands of its ancient insolvent owners,
been either more wisely or liberally administered than in the wild, wicked days when the Martins
"reigned" at Ballynahinch, and boasted that the King's writs did not run "in their country."

Before leaving Connemara I resolved to give a detailed account of the condition of the peasants
of the sea-coast at the conclusion of a phenomenally good season followed by a fair harvest,
thinking that a better impression would be obtained now than in periods of distress. I regret
to say that the effect of several excursions from Letterfrack and Clifden has been almost to
make me despair of the Connemara man of the sea-coast. I hesitate to employ the word "down-trodden,"
because it has been absurdly misused and ignorantly applied to the whole population of Ireland.
I may be pardoned for observing in this place, once for all, that my remarks are always particularly
confined to the place described, and by no means intended to apply to districts I have not
yet visited, still less to Ireland generally--if a country with four if not five distinct populations
should ever by thoughtful persons be spoken of "generally." What I say of the inhabitants of
the sea-coast of Connemara does not, I hope most sincerely, apply to any other people in the
British Islands. They are emphatically "down-trodden"--bodily, mentally, and in a certain direction
morally. They do not commit either murder, adultery, or theft, but they are fearfully addicted
to lying--the vice of slaves. Their prevarication and procrastination are at times almost maddening.
I have seen men and women actually fencing with questions put to them by the excellent priest
who dwells at Letterfrack, Father McAndrew, who was obliged to exercise all his authority to
obtain a straight answer concerning the potato crop grown on a patch of conacre land. Did they
have any "champion" seed given to them at the various distributions of that precious boon?
"Was it champions thin?" was the reply. "'Deed, they had the name o' champions." The woman
who said this in my hearing only confessed under very vigorous cross-examination that "the
name o' champions" signified four stone weight of the invaluable seed which has resisted disease
in its very stronghold. Now in very poor ground the yield of this quantity should have been
twelvefold, or about 5 cwt. of potatoes. "'Deed, and it wasn't the half of it. The champions
was planted too thick, sure; and two halves of 'um was lost." Taken only mathematically this
statement would not hold water, but it was not till after a stern allocution that the fact
was elicited that much champion seed had been wasted by over-thick planting--a habit acquired
by the people during successive bad years. As these poor people prevaricate, so do they procrastinate.
The saddened man who said, in his wrath, all men are liars, would have found ample justification
for his stern judgment on the Connemara sea-coast at the present moment; but the Roman centurion
immortalised in Holy Writ would make a novel experience. He might say "Go," but he would have
to wait a while before the man went, and if he cried "Come" would need to possess his soul
with patience. Yet the people are not dull. In fact the dull Saxon is worth a hundred of them
in doing what he is told, and in doing it at once. This simple fact goes far to explain the
unpopularity of English land-agents. Prepared to obey their own chief, Englishmen, especially
if they have served in the army, expect instant obedience from others. Now that is just what
they will not get in Clifden or elsewhere in the neighbourhood. Almost everybody is as fearfully
deliberate in action as in untruth, and the Saxon who expects instant attention and a straightforward
answer, and is apt to storm at procrastinators and shufflers, appears to the poor native as
an imperious tyrant. Now the native is always as civil as he is deceptive. About the middle
of my journey yesterday, I discovered that the pair of horses who were to bring me twenty-six
Irish miles from Clifden to Oughterard had been driven ten miles before they began that long
pull. Of course the poor creatures dwindled to a walk at last, and I sank into passive endurance
lest the driver might inflict heartless punishment upon them. My remarks on arriving at Oughterard,
where an excellent team awaited me, were vigorous in the extreme; but I am bound to admit that
they were accepted in a thoroughly Christian spirit.

My long car-drives from Letterfrack and Clifden were directed mainly towards the spots mentioned
in a former letter as of specially evil reputation for agrarian crime, and as being heavily
amerced by the grand jury. A very slight acquaintance with them excites amazement that cess,
rent, or anything else can be extracted from the utterly wretched cabins looking on the broad
Atlantic. A large number of these are built on the slope of a lofty peninsula rising to 1,172
feet from the sea-level, and marked on the maps as Rinvyle Mountain. It is better known to
the natives as Lettermore Hill, and forms part of the Rinvyle estate, one of the encumbered
properties alluded to in my last letter. The hill-folk, who appear, on the best evidence procurable,
to have had hard measure dealt to them by the Mr. Graham who bought part of the old Lynch property,
declaim against the "new man," as others ascribe every evil to the middleman; but others again
hold that the old proprietors, who remain on the land, fighting against encumbrances, are the
"hardest of all," and that the whips of cupidity cannot compare with the scorpions of poverty.
Be this as it may, the present holder of Rinvyle is by no means personally unpopular, and has
helped the district lately in getting subscriptions and a Government grant for building a pier,
extremely useful both as a protection to fisher-folk, and as providing labour for the still
poorer people. It is also only fair to state that much of the local congestion of inhabitants
at Rinvyle is due to the kelp-manufacture. The kelp-trade was at one time very prosperous,
and employed a large number of people in collecting, drying, and burning seaweed. At that period
it was the object of proprietors on the seaboard to attract population to their domains, on
account of the royalty levied on kelp, which exceeded by far the rent asked for a little holding.
While some proprietors were wiping off the map great villages, containing hundreds of families,
like that of Aughadrinagh, near Castlebar, the holders of the sea-coast encouraged people to
settle on their estates. No reasonable person can blame them for doing so. The proprietor was
poor, and saw that a large accession to his means might be secured by attracting kelp-burners.
He made a good thing of it. The people paid about 3l. or a little more a year for their cottage
and little, very little, paddock, not bigger than a garden; about 11s. a year for the "right
to gather seaweed," and one-third of the proceeds of the kelp they made as "royalty" to the
landlord. It should be added that the owners of Rinvyle were not themselves dealers in kelp,
like some middlemen along the coast, and that their "people,"--save the mark!--could sell to
whom they pleased, but the lords of the seashore took their third of the proceeds. Within comparatively
recent times kelp has been worth 6l. and 7l. per ton. Putting the "royalty" at 2l. per ton,
and the production of each family at a couple of tons per annum, we arrive at the position
that the landlord drew, in rent and royalty, about half his tenants' summer earnings. The tenants
obtained about 8l. clear per family for the summer's laborious work in collecting, drying,
and burning seaweed. The rest of their living was made either out of a conacre potato patch,
for which they were charged a tremendous rent, or eked out by the excursion of one member of
the family to England for the reaping season. It was not a prosperous life, except in comparison
with that which has succeeded it. For the last few years kelp has been almost thrown out of
the market, and such small prices are obtainable that it is not worth while to collect it.
But the population originally attracted by kelp remains to starve on the rocks of Rinvyle.

Lettermore Hill, rising directly from the sea level, is a magnificent object glittering in
the sun. It is "backed" rather like a whale than a weasel, and includes some good rough mountain
pasture, as well as green fields near its base. As one approaches it a ring of villages is
seen delightfully situated, high for the most part above the sea and the green fields, and
lying back against the huge mountain. It is natural to suppose that here resides a race of
marine mountaineers seeking their living on the deep while their flocks and herds pasture on
the hill. But no supposition could be wider of the actual fact. Neither the fields beneath
nor the mountain above belong in any way to the villages which form a belt of pain and sorrow
half-way up its side, drooping at Derryinver to the sea. One of these villages, Coshleen, surely
as wretched a place as any in the world, is unapproachable by a wheeled vehicle. The pasture
land in front is walled off, and, together with the mountain behind, down almost to the roof
of the cabins, is reserved to the use of a great grazier living far away. Below, near the sea,
stands Rinvyle Castle--whence the name Coshleen, the village by the castle--the ruined stronghold
of the O'Flahertys who ruled this country long ago, either better or worse than the Blakes,
who have held it for some generations, and under whose care it has become a reproach to the
empire. There is a little arable land farther down Lettermore Hill, which, being also called
Rinvyle Mountain, might well receive the third name of Mount Misery. This bit of arable land
is let to the surrounding tenants on the conacre principle--that is, the holders are not even
yearly tenants, but have the land let to them for the crop, the season while their potatoes
or oats are on the ground. By letting this conacre land in little patches, a high rent is secured,
which the tenants have no option but to promise to pay. Apparently it is these wretched people
who, maddened by the sight of a stranger's flocks and herds pasturing above and below them,
have risen at times and driven his animals into the sea. All the notice he has taken of the
matter is to make the county pay his loss, and leave the county to get the amount out of the
offending townlands if it can. He is not to be scared, for he lives far away, and apparently
his herds are not much afraid either--at present, that is. How any compensation money is to
be got from the hundreds of miserable people who inhabit Coshleen and Derryinver I cannot conceive.
They have, it is true, potatoes to eat just now, and may have enough till February; but their
pale cheeks, high cheek-bones, and hollow eyes tell a sorry tale, not of sudden want but of
a long course of insufficient food, varied by occasional fever. With the full breath of the
Atlantic blowing upon them, they look as sickly as if they had just come out of a slum in St.
Giles's. There is something strangely appalling in the pallid looks of people who live mainly
in the open air, and the finest air in the world. Doubtless they tell a good story without,
as I have already said, any very severe adherence to truth; but there can be no falsehood in
their gaunt, famished faces, no fabrication in their own rags and the nakedness of their children.
I doubt me Mr. Ruskin would designate the condition of Mount Misery, otherwise Lettermore Hill,
as "altogether devilish."

The cabins of Connemara have been so frequently described that there is no necessity for telling
the English public that in the villages I have named anything approaching the character of
a bed is very rare. A heap of rags flung on some dirty straw, or the four posts of what was
once a bedstead filled in with straw, with a blanket spread over it, form the sleeping-place.
Everybody knows that one compartment serves in these seaside hovels for the entire family,
including the pig (if any), ducks, chickens, or geese. Few people hereabouts own an ass, much
less a horse or a cow, and boats are few in proportion to the population. Such a cabin as I
have rather indicated than described is occupied by the wife of one John Connolly, of Derryinver.
When I called the husband was away at some work over the hill, and the two elder boys with
him, the wife and seven younger children remaining at home. I had hardly put my foot inside
the cabin when a "bonniva," or very little pig, quietly made up to me and began to eat the
upper-leather of my boot, doubtless because he could find nothing else to eat, poor little
beast. Besides the "bonniva," who looked very thin, the property of the entire family consisted
of a dozen fowls and ducks, some potatoes, a little stack of poor oats, not much taller than
a man, and a still smaller stack of rough hay. An experienced hand in such matters, who accompanied
me, valued the stacks at 2l. 15s. together. This was all they had at John Connolly's to face
the winter withal, and I was curious to know what rent they paid for their little cabin and
the field attached. An acre was quite as much as they appeared to have, and for this they were
"set," as it is called here, at 3l. per annum, and, in addition, were charged 2s. 6d. for the
privilege of cutting turf, and 5s. 6d. for the seaweed. This toll for cutting seaweed is a
regular impost in these parts, sometimes rising for "red weed" and "black weed" to 11s. The
latter is used only for manuring the potato fields, the former being the proper kelp weed,
and must be paid for whether it is used or not. As a matter of fact, Mrs. Connolly's place
assigned for cutting red-weed is the island of Innisbroon, some four or five miles out at sea,
and as her husband has never been worth a boat she has paid her dues for nine years for nothing.
The seaweed dues in fact have for several years past represented merely an increase of rental.
It should not, however, be forgotten that when kelp was valuable the lords of the soil took
their third part of it when it was burnt, in addition to the first tax for collecting the weed,
a most laborious and tedious operation.

It may be asked, and with some appearance of reason, why, if people are hungry, they do not
eat what is nearest to hand. That one owning a dozen fowls and ducks and a stack of oats, be
the same never so small, should be hungry, seems at a superficial glance ridiculous. But the
fact is that this is just the flood time of harvest, the oats are stacked and the potatoes
stored, but there is a long winter to face; and, what is more depressing to hear, these people
who rear fowls would as soon think of eating one as of flying. They do not even eat the eggs,
but sell them to an "eggler," and invest the money in Indian corn meal, a stone of which goes
much farther than a dozen or a dozen and a half of eggs. Those, and they are greatly in the
majority, who have no cow are obliged to buy milk for their children, and find it difficult
and costly to get enough for them.

In equally poor case with the cottiers is the woman who keeps the village shop at Derryinver.
Those who know the village shops of England and the mingled odour of flour, bacon, cheese,
and plenty which pervades them, would shudder at Mrs. Stanton's store at Derryinver. It is
a shop almost without a window; in fact, a cabin like those occupied by her customers. The
shopkeeper's stock is very low just now. She could do a roaring trade on credit, but unfortunately
her own is exhausted. Like the little traders during English and Welsh strikes, her sympathies
are all with her customers, but she can get no credit for herself. She has a matter of 40l.
standing out; she owes 21l.; she has sold her cow and calf to keep up her credit at Clifden,
and she is doing no business. When I looked in on her she was engaged in combing the hair of
one of her fair-skinned children, an operation not common in these parts, where the back hair
of even grown women in such centres of commercial activity as Clifden has a curious knack of
coming down. It is part of the tumble-downishness of the neglected West. At some remote period
things must have been new, but bating Casson's Hotel, at Letterfrack, there is nothing in good
order between Mr. Mitchell-Henry's well-managed estate at Kylemore and Galway. At Clifden and
all through the surrounding country things appear to be decaying or decayed. The doors will
not shut, and the windows cannot be opened; the bells have no handles, and if they had would
not ring; the wall-paper and the carpets, the houses, the land and the people seem to be all
very much the worse for wear. The dirt and slovenliness are unspeakable. I tried to write on
the table of the general room of a well-known inn, or so-called hotel, the other day, and my
arm actually stuck to the table, so adhesive was the all-pervading filth. The white flannel
cloaks and deep red petticoats of Connemara women are picturesque enough on market-day in Clifden,
but, like Eastern cities, they should be seen from afar. I have a shrewd suspicion that the
blight has gone beyond the potato, and it is not very difficult to see how it strode onward.
The little towns of the West depend entirely upon the surrounding country for their subsistence,
and, when the peasantry are poor, gradually undergo commercial atrophy. Just at this moment
they are in a livelier condition than usual, somewhat because the comparatively well-to-do
among the peasants have taken advantage in many places of the popular cry to pay no rent, and
have, therefore, for the moment a little ready money. But there is no escaping the saddening
influence of a general aspect of dirt and decay.

It is a significant feature of the present agitation in Ireland that all parties are nearly
agreed so far as the Connaught peasant cultivator is concerned. That anything approaching agreement
on any part of the complex Irish problem should be arrived at is so remarkable that I am inclined
to hearken to the popular voice. Whatever may be done for the benefit of other parts of the
country, something must, it is thought, be attempted for the counties of Mayo and Galway. So
far as I have been able to arrive at facts and opinions, it is not altogether a question of
rent. A general remission of rent in these two counties would merely have the effect of enriching
those farmers who are already "snug," but would leave the peasant cultivators exactly as they
are at present. It is quite true that in some of the most wretched places I have seen the rent
is extravagantly high; but while exclaiming against attempted extortion, I cannot shut my eyes
to the fact that for the last two years the attempt has been in the main abortive. Everybody
is not so deep in his landlord's books as the irreconcileable Thomas Browne, of Cloontakilla;
but a vast number of poor tenants owe one and a half and two years' rent. I speak of those
whose holdings are "set" from 3l. to 8l. per annum. The rent has not impoverished them this
year at any rate; they have had a fair harvest, their beast or few sheep have fetched good
prices, and yet they are miserably poor. It is quite true that two very bad years preceded
the good one, but allowing for all this there is no room for hope that under their present
conditions of existence they will ever be better off than they are now--when they are practically
living rent free.

Letting for the moment bygones be bygones between landlord and tenant, what is to occur in
the future? Hunger is an evil counsellor, and there would apparently always be hunger and consequent
discontent among the little cultivators of Connaught, even if the land were given to them outright.
The fact is that, despite the assertions of demagogues, the holdings on which the people now
live cannot support them, and, in fact, never have supported them. It is, as I remarked in
one of my previous letters, the harvest money from England and the labourers' wages brought
from Scotland which have kept body and soul together after a poor fashion. The annual migration
of reapers and labourers has been a matter not of enterprise, but of necessity; for on the
summer savings, varying from 10l. to 15l., the family entirely depend. It is, therefore, an
absolute mistake to speak of the Mayo and Galway men as peasant cultivators living on the produce
of the soil they cultivate. It cannot be done. I have talked to scores of these people, and
have invariably found that a decent cabin with properly clad inhabitants depended upon something
beyond the food produced on the spot. Either the father went to England for the harvest, or
the boys were working in a shipyard on the Clyde, or the girls were in America and sent home
money. On the seashore, among the wretched people who send their children out on the coast
to pick shell-fish worth fourpence per stone, I found here and there a household such as I
have described really depending on money earned far away. I have thought it well to put the
case somewhat strongly because it is sheer absurdity to expect that a living for a family can
be extracted from five Irish acres of land in Connaught. In very good years, and when credit
is abundant, not so unusual an occurrence as might be supposed, it is just possible for the
peasant to struggle on; but he can never be said to live. His land is exhausted by the old
Mayo rotation of "potatoes, oats, burn," and he has no manure but guano and seaweed.

It is like inhaling fresh air to turn aside from poorly nourished people and land to look,
from the window of Casson's hotel at Letterfrack, on two bright green oases rising amid a brown
desert of bog. Turnips and mangolds are growing in great forty-acre squares. Dark-ribbed fields
of similar size show where the potatoes have been dug, and men are dotted here and there busily
engaged with work of various kinds. The green oases at the mouth of the magnificent pass of
Kylemore are the work of Mr. Mitchell-Henry, M.P. for the county of Galway. When Mr. Henry
first went salmon-fishing in the river Dowris, which flows from Kylemore Lake into the sea
at Ballynakill Harbour, Kylemore was a mountain pass and nothing more. Now it not only boasts
a castle, but is the centre of extraordinary activity, the first fruits of which are seen in
the villages of Currywongoan and Greenmount already alluded to as forming conspicuous objects
in a landscape of strange grandeur. Mr. Henry, who was an eminent surgeon before he became
a great landowner, has gone about the work of reclamation with scientific knowledge as well
as vigorous will, and now has a great area in the various stages of conversion from bog into
productive land. When he began to reclaim land at Kylemore the neighbouring gentry smiled good-humouredly,
plunged their hands into their (mostly empty) pockets, and wished him joy of his bargain. Now
the Kylemore improvements are the wonder of Connemara. The long unknown mangold is seen to
flourish on spots which once nourished about a snipe to an acre. Root crops are very largely
grown, and it is to these that the climate and reclaimed bog of Connemara are more particularly
favourable; but there is abundance of grain at Currywongoan, at Greenmount, and at the home-farm
at Dowris. Neighbouring proprietors are thinking the matter over, and are wondering whether
an Irish landlord ought, like an English one, to do something to employ and encourage his poor
tenants, and help on with improvements those inclined to help themselves. Even the tenants
themselves on the Kylemore Estate are beginning to wake up under the care of a resident landlord
inclined to set them in the way of improving their condition. With the run of the mountain
in addition to holdings varying from twelve to forty and fifty acres in extent, Mr. Mitchell
Henry's people are learning by example, are breaking up land, and every year increasing the
area under the plough. It would thus seem that the Connemara peasant is not unteachable, if
only some patience be shown and fair breathing space allotted to him.

Mr. Mitchell Henry's idea of reclamation was purely scientific at first, and has only by degrees
been developed into a large enterprise. He was struck by the fact that the bog lies directly
on the limestone, as coal, ironstone, and limestone lie in parts of Staffordshire, only awaiting
the hand of man to turn them to practical account. Draining and liming are all that bog-land
requires to yield immediate crops. The main difficulty is of course to get rid of the water,
which keeps down the temperature of the land until it produces nothing but the humblest kind
of vegetation. All the steps of the reclaiming process may be seen at Kylemore. The first thing
to be done is to cut a big deep drain right through the bog to the gravel between it and the
limestone. Then the secondary drains are also cut down to the gravel, and are supplemented
by "sheep" or surface drains about twenty inches deep and twenty inches wide at top, narrowing
to six inches at the bottom. This process may be called "tapping the bog," which begins to
shrink visibly. The puffy rounded surface gradually sinks as the water runs off, and the earth
gains in solidity. When this process is sufficiently advanced the drains are cleared and deepened,
and a wedge-shaped sod, too wide to reach the bottom, is rammed in so as to leave below it
a permanent tubular covered drain, which is thus made without tiles or other costly material.
Then the surface is dressed with lime, which, as the people say, "boils the bog" instead of
burning it in the old-fashioned Irish manner. On such newly broken-up ground I saw numerous
potato ridges, the large area of turnips and mangolds already spoken of, grasses and rape for
sheep-feed. The celery grown on the reclaimed bog is superb, even finer than that grown on
Chat Moss, which gave Manchester its reputation for celery-growing.

It is not pretended that all the bogs in Ireland are susceptible of similar treatment, nor
is it by any means necessary that they should be. For there is plenty of bog-land less than
four feet in depth, and this alone is worth draining and liming at present. According to Mr.
Mitchell Henry's calculation he can drain and lime the land, take a first crop off it, and
then afford to let it at fifteen shillings per acre. This is thirteen shillings more than it
is worth now, and would return interest for the necessary outlay at five per cent. per annum.
It is well known that Mr. Mitchell Henry has pursued his work at Kylemore in the spirit of
a pioneer, and that he looks to the employment of the poor Connemara folk on reclamations as
the loophole of escape from their present miserable condition. But, while anxious for the people,
he is not unjust to the landlords who, whatever their wish may be, are too poor to attempt
any extensive improvement of their estates. With the exception of Mr. Berridge and Lord Sligo,
nobody has much money in these parts besides Mr. Henry, whose example is followed slowly, because
proprietors lack the means to undertake anything on a grand scale. His impression is, that
to effect any good the matter must be made Imperial. The suggestion is, that suitable tracts
of the best waste lands should be acquired by the Government; that the work of reclamation
should be carried on by labourers who would be paid weekly wages and lodged in huts close to
their work; and that when the land had been properly fertilised it should be divided into farms
of forty acres and the men who have worked at reclaiming it settled upon it with their families,
and instructors appointed to teach them farming. It is no part of the scheme that the land
should be given to the people. On the contrary, a rent should be charged them, calculated upon
the basis of a percentage on the original outlay in the purchase of the estate and of the amount
paid in wages, together with a small sum to pay off the capital in the course of a term of
years. The occupant would thus in time become a freeholder, and as much interested in maintaining
the law as any other proprietor. Meanwhile he would, like the Donegal folk mentioned by Mr.
Tuke, live on hopefully under the rule, for the time being, of the Kingdom, as landlord.

I am far from inclined to detract in any way from the merit of Mr. Mitchell Henry's project
for Imperial reclamation any more than from his scheme for draining and for improving the internal
navigation of Ireland. Although born in Lancashire he is a thorough-bred Irishman, and naturally
hopeful of his country. But, although I am most painfully impressed by the fearful degradation
into which a part of the Western people has fallen, I cannot on that account shut my eyes to
their failings any more than to their poverty. Mr. Henry's scheme, if it deferred actual proprietorship
in fee simple till the next generation, would I hope prove of incalculable benefit to Mayo
and Galway, especially if his excellent idea of appointing agricultural instructors were carried
out faithfully. But I fear from what I have actually seen and heard from the most trustworthy
informants of all classes, that the forty-acre farmer of this generation would require a firm
hand to guide him. This is no insolent Saxon assumption of superiority, but is said, after
due consideration, sadly and seriously. The poor people of the West have been brought very
low, so low that even their very virtues have become perverted into faults. They are affectionate
to their kith and kin; but this amiable quality leads to their huddling together in a curiously
gregarious way, and in some cases has been made the means of extorting money from them. It
is this tendency to live together and thus divide and subdivide whatever little property they
may have, which will require to be most strenuously guarded against.

It is of no use assigning to a man forty acres of land to get a living out of, if he immediately
sublets some of it to a less fortunate friend, or takes all his remotest relations into partnership.
It requires no prophet's eye to discern that the instant the tenant's son got married he would
bring his wife home to his father's roof, and that if the energies of the united family did
not suffice to cultivate the whole of the forty acres, part would be let at "conacre," that
is, for the period of one harvest, to a man with or without a holding of his own. The tendency
to bring several families together in one cabin is almost irresistible, and has, as mentioned
above, not been wisely and firmly met by proprietors, but taken a mean advantage of to wring
money out of tenants.

Subdivision of holdings has in many cases been, not sternly forbidden on pain of eviction,
but made the occasion of inflicting a fine. This shabby and extortionate kind of protest against
subdivision has long obtained on certain estates. If one may believe evidence given on oath
in a court of justice, as reported in a local newspaper, there was within the last twenty years
on at least one estate a custom of exacting a fine from tenants who married without leave.
Probably this originated in some clumsy attempt to prevent the subdivision of holdings and
the accumulation of population in certain places--in itself a laudable and necessary precaution.
Whatever shape any attempt to settle the unfortunate peasants on fresh holdings may take, the
tendency to subdivide and sublet must be sternly resisted--and prevented. A thousand excuses
will be made for taking partners, for subletting on the "conacre" and other systems. "Sure
I was sick, your honour, and the farrum was gettin' desthroyed;" or, "I was too poor to buy
seed for the whole of it, and let some at conacre to Thady O'Flaherty, that's a good man, your
honour, as any in Galway!" or "Wad ye have me tur-r-r-n my own childther out like geese on
the mountain?" are a few of the replies which would, I am assured by a native, be made to any
inquiry or reproof concerning the subletting of land or the accumulation of people. But if
any attempt be made to help the West, nothing of the kind must be listened to. The young bees
must depart from the parent hive and begin life on their own account. This may appear the harsh
judgment of a half-informed traveller. It is, on the contrary, the mere reflection of native
opinion.

VI.

THE RELIEF OF MR. BOYCOTT.

BALLINROBE, CO. MAYO, Wednesday, Nov. 10th.

Finding that despite all the influence brought to bear upon it the Boycott Brigade was actually
going to invade Lough Mask, I came from Galway to-day by the route preferred by Mr. Boycott
himself, just before I met him and Mrs. Boycott herding sheep more than a fortnight ago. The
steam packet Lady Eglinton conveyed an oddly assorted freight. Among the passengers were Mrs.
Burke, the wife of Lord Ardilaun's agent, two commercial travellers, the representative of
the Daily News, and thirty-two of the Royal Irish Constabulary, who had been summoned from
Galway to the scene of action. From every side soldiers and constabulary--soldiers in everything
but name--converge upon Ballinrobe and Claremorris, townlets, which, if one could quite believe
their artless inhabitants, are Arcadian in their simplicity, prosperous to every degree short
of the payment of rent, and absolutely safe as to life and property.

When the good ship Lady Eglinton had puffed and scraped her way through the tortuous shallows
of Lough Corrib to Cong, she was received by a large meeting of the country folk assembled
on the pier. Fortunately I had secured a car from Ballinrobe to await my arrival, and the driver,
a perfect "gem of the sea," received me with high good humour. "To Ballinrobe, your honour?"
he said, and drove off like a true son of Nimshi. As soon as he was fairly on the way, I said
that I should like to drive to Ballinrobe by Lough Mask House. "It's not on our way, your honour,"
was the first and civil objection. I then observed that I wished to go that way in order to
call on Mr. Boycott. "Sure it's a different way altogether, your honour," was the answer. "A
long way round, your honour." Then I said, after the brutal Saxon fashion, "Go that way, nevertheless."
No answer, but the speed of the car relaxed until two other cars came up. Then a particularly
wild Irish conversation was kept up among the drivers, and I observed a pleasant commercial
gentleman who was bound for the village, as distinguished from the landing-place of Cong, laughing
consumedly as his car branched off and left me to pursue my way in the twilight. Then my car-driver,
evidently backed by a brother car-driver, put his case plainly. He had been engaged to drive
a gentleman from Cong to Ballinrobe, and would do what he had engaged to do cheerfully, but
he had not engaged himself to go to Lough Mask House. It was not, as a notorious claimant said,
"in the contract." I hinted that a mile or two out of the way, even Irish miles, could not
matter; that at complete sundown there would be a moon; that increased pay would be given.
Not the slightest effect was produced.

My driver would go to Ballinrobe and nowhere else. He had not engaged to go to Lough Mask House,
and he would not go. I confess that for an instant I asked myself should I threaten my man
and make him take me to Lough Mask whether he liked it or not; but an instant's reflection
convinced me that any such attempt would be worse than futile. The horse would go lame or fall
down within a quarter of a mile, and I should never arrive anywhere. So I tried coaxing, much
against the grain, but it was of no use. To Lough Mask House the car-driver would not go. He
would drive me to Galway or to Newport, "bedad," but "divil a fut" would he stir towards the
accursed spot. He was good enough to say that he would not interfere with me. If I liked to
walk, I was welcome to do it. Now a walk of seven Irish miles at sundown in a steady rain,
over a line of road watched at every turn by disaffected peasants, was not attractive; so I
made a last appeal to my car-driver's personal courage--Was he afraid? "Begorra, he was not
afraid of anything, but would my honour want to set the whole country against him?" This is
what it all came to. He durst not for his life drive anybody to Mr. Boycott's with or without
escort. He was compelled to form part of the strike.

Here in Ballinrobe we are in a state of siege. About 600 soldiers came in last night, who,
together with the resident garrison, make a rough total of 750 military. Claremorris, I hear,
is also strongly occupied to-night. In Ballinrobe are now stationed, under Colonel Bedingfeld,
R.A., commanding the district, two squadrons of the 19th Hussars, or 123 sabres, commanded
by Major Coghill. The Royal Dragoons, under the command of Captain Tomkinson, number sixty
sabres, and with the Hussars will probably perform the main work of convoy to-morrow. The Royal
Engineers are also represented, and 400 men of the 84th Regiment from the Curragh, under Lieut.-Colonel
Wilson, have reinforced the resident detachment of the 76th Regiment, commanded by Captain
Talbot. Moreover, there are nearly two hundred Royal Irish Constabulary in the town, and the
sub-inspector, Mr. McArdle, has his work cut out for to-morrow. A great part of the troops
are now under canvas, and last night were in even worse condition.

As one trudges across the slushy road over Ballinrobe Fair Green, the illuminated tents light
up the foreground pleasantly, while the moon tinges the tree-tops and the river Robe with silver.
All is beautiful enough were it not for the persistent rattle of the sabre and the jingle of
the spur. So far as can be ascertained at present the Ulster contingent will consist of no
more than fifty men, who will probably arrive by train at Claremorris about three o'clock to-morrow
afternoon. Early in the forenoon a hundred infantry and sixty sabres of the Royal Dragoons
will occupy Lough Mask House and the surrounding fields, and about four hundred infantry, a
strong detachment of police, and the two squadrons of the 19th Hussars will receive the harvesters
at Claremorris and escort them to Lough Mask House.

It has been suggested that if sufficient cars can be requisitioned the Boycott Brigade might
be mounted upon them and sent through guarded by the cavalry alone. The pace at which this
evolution could be performed is its greatest recommendation. Any encounter with the people
of the country side, who are sure to assemble in large numbers, would be completely prevented,
and, what is of greater importance, the reapers would reach their destination before sundown.
The long distance from Claremorris would be certain to prolong a foot march into the night,
when all kinds of complication might occur. At the moment of writing the streets are dotted
with little knots of people, and the excitement concerning the morrow is intense.

BALLINROBE, CO. MAYO, Thursday, Nov. 11th.

Hearing that the march of the Ulster men upon Lough Mask House would not commence till nearly
nightfall, I drove over early this morning to Mr. Boycott's in a private carriage, hired cars
being, for the reasons stated yesterday, quite unattainable. "Did your honour wish to set the
country on me?" is the only reply vouchsafed by car-drivers since one of their body was cruelly
beaten, presumably for the unpardonable sin of driving a policeman to the house under taboo.

The drive through the warm soft morning air was much pleasanter than that of yesterday evening;
nor did people start up in an uncomfortable way from behind the stone wall, as they did last
night. At intervals the sun shone out on the reddened foliage, greatly changed in hue since
my first visit to Lough Mask. The half-dozen persons I met appeared to be going about their
daily work like good citizens; and a casual visitor might, if he could have persuaded anybody
to drive him along the road to Lough Mask, have gone away convinced that the whole story of
wrong and outrage was the work of a distempered brain. The isolated dwelling itself was by
far the most gloomy object in the landscape--grey and prison-like as most of the Irish houses
of its class.

Mr. Boycott's habitation has thoroughly the look of a place in which crimes have been, or,
as a native of these parts suggested, "ought to be committed." Two dark figures of the Royal
Irish Constabulary occupy the front-door step, and others of the same keep watch and ward over
stables and ground. Nearly three weeks of painful excitement had made but slight change in
Mr. Boycott's family. His wife and daughter live under circumstances which would drive many
people mad, and the combative land-agent and farmer himself maintains a belligerent attitude,
the grey head and slight spare figure bowed, but by no means in submission. On the contrary,
never was Mr. Boycott's attitude more defiant. It is only by skilful subterfuge that he can
get a shirt washed for his outer, or a loaf of bread made for his inner man. The underground
routes which existed a fortnight ago are closed. In fact "every earth is stopped," and the
hunted man is driven to the open. Not a soul will sell him sixpence-worth of anything. He cannot
even get a glass for his watch, for the watch-maker no more than anybody else dare serve him.
Every feature of his extraordinary situation depicted in my first letter on "Disturbed Ireland"
is exaggerated almost to distortion.

Last evening the following letter was handed to him by the tenants of Lord Erne:--"Kilmore.
Nov. 10, 1880. C.C. Boycott, Esq. Sir,--In accordance with the decision made in Lord Erne's
last letter to us, we want you to appoint a day to receive the rents.--THE TENANTS. A reply
requested."

Mr. Boycott's reply was that he was ready to receive the rents at ten o'clock this morning,
an hour after which time he received the following notice:--"The tenants request an answer
to the following before they pay you the rent:--1st. Don't you wish you may get it? 2nd. When
do you expect the Orangemen, and how are they to come? 3rd. When are you going to hook it?
Let us know, so that we may see you off. 4th. Are you any way comfortable? Don't be uneasy
in your mind: we'll take care of you. Down with the landlords and agents. God save Ireland."
Such communications as this are agreeable and amusing enough when addressed to a distant friend,
but are hardly so diverting when directed to one's self. It is also disquieting to hear people
say, as one passes, "He will not hear the birds sing in spring."

Next to open and secret enemies, indiscreet friends are, perhaps, the most disagreeable of
created beings. Unfortunate Mr. Boycott, who wanted a score, at most, of Northern men to get
in his crop, has been threatened with an invasion from Ulster. The opposition of the Government
to such "Ulsterior" measures, as a Galway man called them to-day, has at least had the effect
of moderating the rancour of the relief expedition. Only fifty, with baggage and implements,
are announced as on the march, but even this number is a hideous infliction on Mr. Boycott.
He has nowhere to lodge them but in a barn, and has assuredly not the wherewithal to feed them,
so that their help and sympathy are somewhat overwhelming. Three hundred men of the 76th Regiment
have been sent over from Castlebar to Claremorris to keep order, with Captain Webster's squadron
of the 19th Hussars to furnish escort to Hollymount, where a troop of the Royals, under Lieutenant
Rutledge, and 200 men of the 84th Regiment meet them. To Lough Mask House itself a squadron
of the 19th Hussars and 100 infantry have been despatched to occupy the ground inspected and
selected this morning by Colonel Bedingfeld and Captain Tomkinson during my visit to Mr. Boycott.

BALLINROBE, CO. MAYO, Friday Night, Nov. 12th.

The march of the Ulster contingent last evening commenced smoothly enough at Claremorris. The
dismal little country station was lined with troops, and perhaps made a more brilliant show
than at any other period during its existence. After the manner of this part of the country
the train due at 2.41 arrived at 3.30 P.M., and it was almost twilight before the well-guarded
procession commenced. Perhaps two thousand persons assembled at dreary Claremorris, but the
small representation of the country side made up for the paucity of its numbers by the loudness
of its voice. The groans which announced the arrival of the train were repeated again and again
as the sixty-three officers and men of the Ulster contingent made their way towards the cars
engaged for them. At the cars, however, some difficulty occurred; for the drivers absolutely
refused to carry anybody but police. They were not bound, they said, to carry Orangemen, and
would not carry them. This difficulty occasioned some little hustling, but the upshot was that
the Ulster men, a well-grown, powerful set of fellows, were compelled to walk all the way from
Claremorris to the infantry barracks at Ballinrobe.

The march was inexpressibly dreary. When any sound was heard it was a yell, and these expressions
of disapprobation were repeated at Hollymount, and with increased vigour at Ballinrobe, where
the streets were full of people. The Boycott Brigade was last night kept strictly within barracks,
not a soul being allowed to venture out of the gate.

The general aspect of everybody and everything in Ballinrobe this morning expressed fatigue.
The Ulster contingent, who call themselves "workmen," were terribly knocked up by their walk
of about thirteen miles from Claremorris, a fact which hardly speaks well for their thews and
sinews, but in fairness it must be admitted that they were obliged to undertake their march
after a long and fatiguing railway journey, at sundown, on a muddy road, and in alternate light
and heavy rain. They were also poorly fed, for their carts and implements generally only came
in here this afternoon, escorted by the Royal Dragoons, under Captain Tomkinson, during part
of the distance, and for the remainder by a troop of the 19th Hussars; wherefore the Ulster
"workmen" hardly appeared to advantage this morning until breakfast had been supplied them
in the infantry barracks. Then they straightened their backs and stood squarely enough to make
a very old soldier exclaim with delight, "Foine men, sorr, they'd be with me to dhrill 'um
for a couple o' weeks."

Poorly fed as the Orangemen were, their case was not nearly so hard as that of the military.
It is all very well to send "the fut and the dhragoons in squadhrons and plathoons" to the
fore, but it is not clever to send them to Ballinrobe or elsewhere without tents, baggage,
or food. That furious Ulster Tories, "spoiling for a fight," should leave everything but repeating
rifles and revolving pistols behind when rushing to possible fray is quite conceivable; but
that the Control Department should always blunder when troops are moved rapidly is not quite
so easy to understand.

By what appears almost persistent clumsiness the troops sent hither were allowed to arrive
many hours before their tents, baggage, and provisions. Suddenly ordered to leave Dublin, two
squadrons of the 19th Hussars, a not very huge or unmanageable army of a hundred and twenty
men, came away without being allowed to bring rations with them. The effect of this blundering
is that the Hussars have been pursued by their food and tents, and on the night of their arrival
were utterly without any accommodation whatever. The cooking pots have only just arrived here.
Why it should take three days to convey a cooking pot over the distance a man travels in less
than ten hours it is difficult to imagine; but the fact is absolutely true, nevertheless. The
officer commanding the unlucky Hussars has more cause to complain than any of his men, for,
owing to an accident to his own charger on the railway platform, he was obliged to ride a fresh
horse, which, startled by the crowd, yesterday reared suddenly, and fell backwards upon Major
Coghill, who is now confined to his room. It is hoped that no bones are broken, but this is
not yet accurately ascertained, so great is the swelling and inflammation.

The hour of starting was late, by reason of everybody being tired with the hard, dull, wet
work of yesterday, unrelieved by the slightest approach to a breach of the peace. Fatigue and
disappointment had done their work, and only a few of the more ardent and sanguine spirits
looked cheerfully forward to the march to Lough Mask House. The Orangemen, however, had not
lost all hope, and one stalwart fellow, who told me he was a steward, and not an agricultural
labourer, rejoiced in carrying a perfect arsenal, including a double-barrelled gun of his own,
a "repeater" of Mr. Maxwell's, and several full-sized revolvers. This honest fellow confessed
that digging potatoes and pulling mangolds were not his regular occupations, but that he had
come "for the fun of the thing," and to show them there were still "loyal men left in Ireland."
This is hardly the place in which to discuss the loyalty which goes on an amateur potato-digging
excursion armed with Remington rifles and navy revolvers and escorted by an army of horse,
foot, and police.

The quality of loyalty, like that of mercy, is not strained, but it has fallen upon Mayo unlike
the "gentle dew from heaven." The people here are undoubtedly cowed by the overwhelming display
of military force, but they vow revenge for the affront put upon the soil of the county by
the Northern invaders. Against the soldiers no animosity is felt, but the hatred against the
cause of their presence is bitter and profound. Mayo has its back up, and only waits for an
opportunity of vengeance.

At eleven o'clock the march from the barracks to Lough Mask commenced. First came a strong
detachment of constabulary, then a squadron of the 19th Hussars, commanded by Captain Webster,
and next two hundred men of the 84th and 76th Regiments, who completely surrounded and enclosed
the so-called "workmen" and their leaders, Mr. Somerset Maxwell, who contested Cavan at the
last election in the Conservative interest, and Mr. Goddard, a solicitor of Monaghan, who led
the men of that county, with whom was the Mr. Manning to whose letters in the Daily Express,
a Dublin newspaper, the Orange movement is attributed in this part of the country. In the rear
came the men and waggons of the Army Service Corps.

To the astonishment of most of those who formed part of the procession the number of persons
assembled to witness it was almost ridiculously small, and popular indignation roared as gently
as a sucking-dove. In their own opinion the most law-abiding of Her Majesty's subjects, the
Ballinrobe folk indulged but very slightly in groaning or hissing, and when the little army
got clear of the town its sole followers were a couple of cars, a market cart, and a private
gig driven by a lady, the tag-rag and bobtail being made up of a dozen bare-legged girls, whose
scoffs and jeers never went beyond the inquiry, "Wad ye dig auld Boycott's pitaties, thin?"
There was no wit or humour racy of the soil, no flashes of bitter sarcasm, no pungent observations:
everybody felt that the thing was going off like a damp firework, and that, bating the "Dead
March" from Saul, it was very like a funeral. Still, those who ought to know declared that
the absence of any demonstration was in itself a bad sign. Hardly any men were seen on the
line of march, but it was said that scouts were on every hill, and that pains were being taken
to identify the Orangemen. It was also heard on the best authority that Mr. Ruttledge's herds
had been threatened and ordered to quit his service by the mysterious agency which rules the
rural mind of Mayo.

Silently, except for an occasional laugh or two from a colleen standing by the wayside, we
kept the line of march towards Lough Mask. At the village, standing on two townlands, a few
more spectators hove in sight, but at no point could more than a dozen be counted. As the sun
now shone through the western sky it revealed a picturesque as well as interesting scene.

Like a huge red serpent with black head and tail, the convoy wound gradually up a slight hill,
the scarlet thrown into relief by the long line of grey walls on either side, beyond which
lay green fields and clumps of trees dyed with the myriad hues of autumn, the distance being
filled in by the purple mountains beyond Lough Mask. Presently came the angle which marks the
extremity of Captain Boycott's land. Taking the road to the right, we approached the house
under ban, and around which a crowd of peasants had been expected. The only human beings in
sight were the police guarding the entrance by the lodge, and those stationed near the hut
on a slight eminence to the right. Here the surrounding trees contrasted vividly with the animated
and highly coloured scenes beneath. Completely enclosed by foliage was an encampment of the
most picturesque kind.

On the greenest of all possible fields in front of the tents the officers commanding the escort,
the leaders of the Ulster Brigade, and the resident magistrates were received by Mr. Boycott,
who appeared in a dark shooting-dress and cap, and carried a double-barrelled gun in his hand.
A little further on stood Mrs. Boycott and her nephew and niece, the house itself seeming almost
deserted. The workmen, like the troopers, formed in line, and appeared to be equally well armed.

Presently the arduous task of stowing the uninvited Northern contingent was undertaken. The
troops, who had remained on the ground all night, and had been reduced to straits by the failure
of the commissariat, had, after some reflection and the exercise of considerable patience,
taken care of themselves as best they might. Sheep had been slain, and chickens and geese had
lent savoury aid to the banquet of the warriors, who also, in the absence of other fuel, were
constrained to make short work of Lord Erne's trees. But they had done their work cheerfully
in the cold and wet, and had pitched tents for the Ulster men. When the belligerent "agriculturists"
came to be told off into these tents an amusing difficulty, illustrative of the light handling
necessary to the conduct of affairs in Ireland, interrupted the dulness which had hitherto
oppressed all present.

Those "agriculturists" who hailed from Cavan insisted that they would foregather only with
Cavan men, while the men of Monaghan were equally indisposed to give a Cavan man "as much space
as a lark could stand on" in their tents. Moreover some jealousy was exhibited as to the situation
and furniture of the tents assigned to the two wings of the army of relief. At last harmony
was restored, and the edifying spectacle of Cavan and Monaghan fighting it out then and there,
while Mayo looked on, was averted, greatly to the sorrow of a Mayo friend of mine, whose eyes
sparkled and whose mouth watered at the delicious prospect.

It seems that Mr. Boycott, fully aware of the feelings of Mayo folk after having Orangemen
set on them, is about to leave the country, at least for a while, after his crop has been got
in--probably a rational decision on his part. Meanwhile he is having a hard time of it between
friends and foes. His enemies have spoiled a great part of his crop, and what they have left
his defenders threaten to devour.

BALLINROBE, CO. MAYO, Nov. 13.

A wild night of wind and rain was borne with unflagging spirit by the unlucky troops condemned
to the most uncongenial of tasks. The fair green of Ballinrobe is now a quagmire, and the men
under canvas have had the roughest possible night of it. Only two tents were actually carried
away, but the hurricane made all those in the others uncomfortable enough. For ordinary pedestrians,
perhaps, the slush of this morning was better than the sticky mud of yesterday, in which it
was impossible to move; but the autumnal charm of Ballinrobe was gone for this year.

In the cavalry encampment the leaves lay thick around the unfortunate horses exposed to the
weather with miserably insufficient covering. There was a general air of wetness and wretchedness
from the infantry to the cavalry barracks, and some misgivings were entertained as to the condition
of the garrison of Lough Mask House. General opinion has set in decidedly against the Ulster
contingent: horse and foot, and police, magistrates and floating population unite in wishing
the Ulster Orangemen "five fathoms under the Rialto." In the language of those who dwell habitually
on the banks of the river the wish is epigrammatically expressed, "May the Robe be their winding-sheet."

Originally imagined as a scheme to force the hand of the Government, the Ulster invasion has
been so far successful. The great actual mischief has been already done. According to public
opinion in Mayo, the Government had no more than the traditional three courses open to them--they
could have let armed Ulster come in hundreds or thousands, an invading force, and civil war
would have ensued; they could have allowed the small number of labourers really needed by Mr.
Boycott to arrive by threes and fours, at the risk of not getting alive to Lough Mask at all;
and they could do as they have done. The probable effect of the movement, if any, will be to
bring Mr. Somerset-Maxwell to the fore at the next contest for the county of Cavan. It may
be imagined that the picked men of Monaghan are not very pleased at playing second fiddle to
an electioneering scheme. Concerning Cavan, the hope of a fight between the men of the two
counties has by no means died away.

To do justice to the Ulster men, they displayed a great deal of earnestness at Lough Mask House
this morning. In the midst of a hurricane a large number of them went bravely out to a potato
field and worked with a conscience at getting out the national vegetables, which ran a risk
of being completely spoiled by the rain. The potatoes, however, might, as Mr. Boycott opined,
have been spoiled if they had remained in the ground, and might as well be ruined in one way
as the other.

The remainder of the Orangemen, when I saw them, were busy in the barn with a so-called "Tiny"
threshing-machine, threshing Mr. Boycott's oats with all the seriousness and solemn purpose
befitting their task. Nothing could have been more dreary and wretched than the entire proceedings.
Mr. Boycott himself had discarded his martial array of yesterday, and appeared in a herdsman's
overcoat of venerable age, and, as he grasped a crook instead of a double-barrelled gun, looked
every inch a patriarch. He exhibits no profuse gratitude towards the officious persons who
have come to help him, thinking probably that he would have been nearly as well without them.
Thanks to his obstructive assistants, he is almost overwhelmed with sympathisers gifted by
nature with tremendous appetites. Keen-eyed officers detect the mutton-bones which tell of
unauthorised ovicide, and "clutches" of geese and chickens vanish as if by magic. There will
be a fearful bill for somebody to pay when the whole business is over, whenever that may be.

From every quarter I hear acts of the so-called "staunchness" of the population. When Captain
Tomkinson went over to Claremorris yesterday with dragoons to convey the carts and other impediments
of the Ulster division, it happened that one of the cart-horses lost a shoe. Will it be believed
that it was necessary to delude the only blacksmith who could be captured with a story that
the animal belonged to the Army Service Corps? Simple and artless, the Claremorris blacksmith
made the shoe: but before he could put it on he was "infawrrumd" that the beast he was working
for was in an Ulster cart. Down fell the hammer, the nails, and the shoe. The blacksmith was
immovable. Not a blow more would he strike for love or money; nor would any blacksmith for
miles around this place. At last the shoe was got on to the horse's foot among the military
and police; but not a soul belonging to this part of the country would drive a cart at any price.

All this appears to point to the conclusion that when Mr. Boycott's potatoes, turnips, and
mangolds are got in, and his oats are threshed out, when his sheep are either sold or devoured
on the spot by his hungry defenders, he will accompany the Orangemen on their return march,
at least to the nearest railway station. That neither he nor his auxiliaries would be safe
for a single hour after the departure of the military is certain, and the expense of maintaining
a huge garrison in Ballinrobe will therefore of necessity continue until the last potato is
dug and the last turnip pulled.[1] If the weather were only moderately favourable, the work
might be got through in a week or ten days; but if it rains as it has done to-day, it is quite
impossible to say when it will be done. As I was looking at the men potato-digging the rain
seemed to cut at one's face like a whip, and all through the afternoon Ballinrobe has been
deluged. In this beautiful island everybody disregards ordinary rain, but the downpour of the
last few days is quite extraordinary. The river is swollen to double its usual size, and the
slushy misery endured by the military under canvas is quite beyond general camp experience.
The soldiers have only one consolation--that the Orangemen are under canvas too.

GALWAY, Tuesday, Nov. 16th.

"Thim that is snug, your honour, is slower in payin' than thim that is poor," said one of my
informants a few days ago, just as I was setting out for the seat of war in county Mayo. The
speaker was a Connemara man, and his remark was applied more particularly to his own region;
but the state of affairs in the neighbouring county illustrates his opinion in the most vivid
colours.

Ballinrobe is the centre of a by no means unprosperous part of Ireland. Pretty homesteads are
frequent, and well-furnished stackyards refresh the eye wearied with looking upon want and
desolation. Between Ballinrobe and Hollymount the country is agreeably fertile; toward Cong
and Cloonbur, where Lord Mountmorres was shot, and in the direction of Headford, on the Galway
road, there is plenty of evidence of prosperity. It is, however, precisely in the rich country
lying east of Lough Mask that the greatest disinclination to pay rent prevails. Nowhere is
the disaffected party more completely organized, and nowhere is it, rightly or wrongly, thought
that some of the tenants could more easily pay up if they liked. As contrasted with the hovels
of the northern part of Mayo and the west of county Galway, the houses at Ballinrobe are comfortable,
and the people apparently naturally well off. Moreover, they have a better idea of what comfort
is than the inhabitants of the seaboard. I cannot better show this than by describing the houses
in which I passed part, at least, of the last two Sundays.

When I arrived at Ballinrobe on Wednesday last it was almost impossible to obtain quarters
either for love or money. I had telegraphed beforehand to that most civil and obliging of hotel-keepers,
Mr. Valkenburgh, of Ballinrobe, to secure rooms for me and send a car to Cong. The car came,
and the driver with whom I had the debate already recorded, but it had been impossible to obtain
a room for me anywhere. Mr. Valkenburgh's own house was crammed to the roof with closely laid
strata of guests, from the American reporter under the roof to the cavalry officer in the front
parlour. There was nothing for it but to be bedded out--a severe infliction in some parts of
Ireland. The polite hotel-keeper finally bethought him that in the house of a widow, who had
only four officers of Hussars staying with her, a stray corner could be found; and I was finally
established in the widow's drawing-room or best parlour, in which a cot, only a foot too short
for me, was placed.

The excellent woman, whose house was converted into military quarters, is by no means rich.
Her late husband was in the office of a neighbouring landlord, and would appear to have been
just getting on in the world when he died. He certainly lived in a house properly so called;
not a house in the Irish meaning of the word, which includes a Connemara cabin. It is only
one storey high. The ground floor is occupied by two parlours, a kitchen, and offices; the
bedrooms being upstairs. There are curious signs of better times about the place. My bed was
far too short, but by the side of it was an old-fashioned square pianoforte. There was no carpet
on the floor, but the lamp was a very good one, and well trimmed. The fire was entirely of
turf, but of enormous size, and on the mantelpiece were some excellent photographs. Hens clucked
as they hopped on to the table, and a red-headed colleen was perpetually chasing a cat of almost
equally ruddy hue, but everybody was mightily civil and kindly. The room was full of peat-smoke,
but the eggs were undeniably fresh; so that there were compensations on every side. The widow,
her step-daughter, and the colleen before mentioned did all the work. They made my bed, what
there was of it, they tended the fire with unflagging zeal, they brought water in very limited
quantity for the purposes of ablution, they dried my boots and clothes with almost motherly
care and tenderness when I came in out of the pouring rain. In fact, nobody could have been
kinder or more attentive, and when Major Coghill was laid up by his accident their sympathy
was almost overwhelming. Yet I believe that we annoyed them and deranged the tenor of their
lives by our matutinal habits. Perhaps they might have been strong enough to resist my desperate
efforts to get a cup of tea at some time before nine o'clock in the morning, but the officers'
servants were too strong for them. They came and knocked the house up betimes, and then the
bustle of the day began.

Now, I have been assured by the Irish priests and people that whatever faults your Commissioner
may have, prejudice against Ireland and the Irish is not one of them. But at the risk of being
thought a censorious Saxon I must confess that I am quite at issue with Western Ireland on
the question of early rising. It is impossible to get anybody out of bed in the morning except
the Boots at an hotel, and then the chances are that no hot water is to be obtained.

A housemaid in one of the Mayo hotels on coming up to make a fire complained bitterly, not
of the toil of coming up stairs, but of the early hour of ten, and do what I would I could
get nothing done earlier. On another occasion I was told that people out West rose late because
the "day is long enough for hwhat we have got to do." I retorted that they did not do it, but
fear that my remark was put down to prejudice. It is not my function to indulge in sweeping
assertions, but if I were asked why the Western people do not prosper I should be inclined
to reply--Because they will not turn out early in the morning.

But they are pleasant people in Ballinrobe nevertheless. Our widow never complained of our
unearthly hours any more than we did of the turf smoke which communicated a high flavour to
all our habiliments. The widow, although not rich, is evidently "snug" in her circumstances.
She has a farm or two, part of which is underlet of course. This is another peculiarity of
Irish life very remarkable to the stranger. Everybody seems to do work by deputy. A proprietor
of a landed estate, not worth a thousand pounds a year when interest is paid on the various
mortgages, would never think of being his own agent--that is doing his own work on his own
estate. Not at all. He employs an agent who, thinking him rather small fry, neglects him or
hands him over to the bailiff, who again transfers him to his "headmen," so that three people
are paid for looking on before anybody does anything. This practice also may be in part the
cause of the decay of the wild West.

I have been so far particular in my remarks concerning the Ballinrobe widow, in order to compare
the inland standard of comfort with that prevailing on the sea-coast. Just before the Ulster
invasion as it is called here, I was induced to go to Omey Island. It is a place of evil repute
for poverty, but is as healthy as it ought to be, having the blue Atlantic for one lung and
the brown hills of Connemara for the other. It is one of those interesting islands which become
peninsulas at low tide, a charming natural feature making it a matter of tidal calculation
whether one can drive on board of them or not. It is not as bad as Innishark, which requires
a trained gymnast to effect a landing, for it only needs nimbleness of brain instead of that
of limbs.

While that zealous and hard-working young minister of the gospel, Father Rhatigan, was saying
mass, and visiting that part of his flock congregated at Claddaghduff Chapel, I made my way
over the intermittent isthmus of dry, hard, fine sand. It was an agreeable change from the
road, which for some distance had lain over a "shaved bog"--that is, a locality from which
the peat had been cut away down to its rocky bed. For some distance nothing was visible but
stones, on which the rain came plashing down like a cataract. But the aspect and situation
of Omey Island are such as to suggest to the speculative mind another and better Scheveningen
without anything between it and Labrador. The island is not, however, purely sandbank, as Scheveningen
appears to be, for it has a nucleus of rock, the sand being a later accumulation, every year
increasing in volume, after the manner observed in Donegal, or as stones are amassed at Dungeness.
I had heard wild stories of Omey Island, of troglodytes, hungry dwellers in rocky seaside caves,
and rabbit-people burrowing in the sand. As Maundeville observes, "Verilie I have not seen
them," but I can quite understand how the story was spread.

Over against the inhabited part of the island is what is now a mere sandbank. It is now covered
with sand, and not a soul dwells thereon. But there were people there once who clung to their
stone cabins till the sand finally covered them; so that they might fairly be described as
dwellers or burrowers therein. At last their cabins became sanded up, and the poor folk moved
to their present situation. Now I have seen superb potatoes grown literally in the sand at
Scheveningen, and was not surprised to hear that Omey Island was once so famous for the national
staff of life that few cared to grow anything else. But there are difficulties everywhere,
and it is parlous work to break up ground at Omey. There is too much fresh air; for it blows
so hard that people are afraid to disturb the thin covering of herbage which overspreads the
best part of the island. "If ye break the shkin of 'um, your honour, the wind blows the sand
away and leaves your pitaties bare. And, begorra, there are nights when the pitaties thimselves
'ud be blown away."

Statements like this must always be taken at a reduction, but, judging from my own experience,
Omey is a "grand place for weather entirely." Half of the island is rented by a considerable
farmer, for these parts. He pays a hundred pounds a year for his farm at Omey, and a hundred
and fifty for another cattle farm up on the hills. When I said he "pays," I am not at all sure
whether he has paid up this year or not, but he has flocks and herds, and of course is a responsible
tenant. Yet he lives with his family in but a "bettermost" sort of cabin. His wife treated
me most hospitably; in fact, she paid me too much honour, for she insisted that I should not
sit round the fire with the countryfolk, but occupy the best parlour, a room large enough,
but blackened with smoke, and unutterably depressing, despite the cabinet pianoforte opposite
the fireplace. Musical instruments of torture appear to be considered a necessary mark of competence
in Western Ireland, just as a big watch-chain is in certain parts of England. Not a soul on
Omey Island could play the pianoforte, thank heaven; so it remained with its back against the
wall, as mute evidence of solvency. There was no carpet on the floor, which was of a fine dirt-colour,
and the chickens, ducks, and geese circulated freely about.

Here now was a man paying, or promising to pay, 250l. a year in rent, and who yet seemed to
have not the faintest idea of comfort. It should be recollected that my visit was paid on a
Sunday, when his family would be seen at their best; but the girls were running about with
bare feet and dirty faces, and the neighbouring gossips, also barefooted and dirty beyond all
imagination, were hanging round the fire, talking amongst themselves about the stranger, and
half mad with curiosity concerning him. The farmer lived, it is true, in a wild place; but
sand is so clean a thing in itself that it is a mystery how his tribe of children got so abominably
dirty.

The drive homeward past Streamstown was wet enough, but still interesting in many ways. In
no part of Ireland has the curse of middlemen been felt more severely than in Connemara. The
middleman is specially abhorrent to the people when he is one of themselves. He is "not a gentleman,
sure," is a deadly reproach in this part of the country. Practically he is objectionable because,
being one of the people, he is aware of their tricks and their ways, and suspects them as they
hate and suspect him. What would be urbanity on the part of the real "masther" is in the middleman
viewed as deceit. The sharp tone of command endurable in a superior is resented when employed
by a person of low origin. And it would seem that middlemen are not as a race persons of agreeable
character. All the old rags of feudalism which have hung about Connemara long after their annihilation
elsewhere, have been saved wherever it was possible by the middleman.

I am not quite certain that any one of these has ever "hung out his flag for fish" after the
manner of the old proprietors who, when they wanted fish for dinner, made their tenants obey
their signal and put back, whatever might be the chance of the night's catch. This flag was,
so "men seyn," hung out often by the Bodkins, the ancient owners of Omey Island, but how long
it is since it was last done is hardly worth while to inquire. Far more interesting is the
much talked of "survival" of feudalism in the shape of what is called "duty work." Something
analogous to the corvée existed, I believe, in Hungary till a comparatively recent period,
when it was commuted for rent. Within the limits of the English Kingdom, however, stories about
"duty work" clash oddly on the ear, and yet I am assured that in the lesser island of Turk
such work has been insisted on and "processed" for within twelve or eighteen months. Vexatious
processes are not undertaken just now for very obvious reasons.

"Duty work," so far as I can gather, is, or was--for no such work will be done again in Ireland--a
modified, form of the corvée. Here and there it was enforced in various shapes. At Omey, in
Aughrisbeg, at Fountainhill, and at the lesser isle of Turk, the conditions varied greatly.
The general principle appears to have been that besides rent in money, fine on entry, and dues
analogous to tithes on stock of pigs and poultry, a certain number of days in the year were
the property of the landlord. The usual term was about a week in spring and a week at harvest-time.
In some places five days only were exacted; in others three. In the case concerning which I
am best instructed, five days in spring and five in harvest-time were demanded, together with
any one day in the year on which the tenant might be wanted, at a wage of sixpence. If the
tenant refuse "duty work" he may be sued in court--the damage incurred by his default being
generally assessed at five pounds.

Now it does not require any very clear perception to discover that among agriculturists or
fishermen "duty work" is an improper mode of levying tax. In spring and autumn, and especially
in the latter, the tenant requires for getting in his own crop precisely the week that the
landlord is entitled to claim. Yet he must leave his own to assist his landlord. On one of
the little islands, let to a middleman, all the evil features of the corvée are brought into
prominence. The island produces three kinds of sea-weed, the so-called "red weed," cut off
the rocks and used for kelp; the "black weed" on the shore, used for manure for potato-fields--often
the only manure to be got; and the drift, or mixed weed.

After spring tides there is a great mass of drift-weed on the rocks, half of which is on the
territory reserved by the middleman, and the other on that half rented by the tenants. The
latter must give their master his day's work first to get in his weed, and take the chance
of seeing their own washed away during the night.

From Ballynakill--where the ribs rising in the green grass-land, like waves in an emerald sea,
tell of extinct cultivation, of depopulated villages, and an "exterminated" people--to the
supremely wretched islands of Bofin and Turk, the record is fearfully consistent. A people
first neglected, and then crushed by evictions, has sunk quite below the level of civilization.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: This prediction was literally fulfilled.]

VII.

MR. RICHARD STACPOOLE.

ENNIS, CO. CLARE, Nov. 21st.

At the seat of war by Lough Mask, I was informed that it would be sheer waste of time to go
to Clare; that all was peaceful in the county which Daniel O'Connell formerly represented in
Parliament; that at Ennis, under the shadow of the Liberator's statue, rebel commotion was
unknown. All was quiet. It was true that people did not pay their rent, but that was all. I
should waste my time, and so forth. But no sooner had I set foot in Ennis than I found that
the jacquerie which broke out in Mayo and Galway had reached county Clare, and that at least
one gentleman living close to the principal town is at war with his tenants and the country side.

The condition of affairs at Edenvale is in many respects even more curious than that at Lough
Mask House. There is none of the pomp and circumstance of open war. There is not a soldier
or a policeman on the premises. All is calm and pastoral. From a lodge so neat and trim that
it is a pleasure to look upon it, a well-kept road winds through a well-wooded and beautiful
park, in the centre of which, on the brink of a lake, stands a large and handsome country house.
All is ship-shape, from the gravel on the path to the knocker on the door, which is promptly
opened, without grating of bolt or rattle of chain, by a clean, well-dressed, civil servitor.

All such signs of peace, order, and plenty are very noteworthy after one has been four or five
weeks in Mayo and Galway, and convey a first impression that law, order, and civilization generally
are to the fore in county Clare. The large and handsome drawing-room strengthens the conviction
that here at least life and property are secure. It is true that several double-barrelled guns
are on the hall-table; but country gentlemen in Ireland go out shooting as they do elsewhere.
Several large dogs, too, are running about outside the house; but as Mr. Richard Stacpoole
is a celebrated sportsman, there is nothing wonderful in that.

Mr. Stacpoole, whose appearance and manner are as frank as his welcome is hearty, is by no
means reticent as to the matters in debate between him and the tenants holding from him and
other members of his family for whom he acts as agent. To the question whether he goes in fear
of his life, he replies, "Not at all; I take care of that," and out of the pocket of his lounging
jacket he takes a revolver of very large bore. It is a curious picture, this drawing-room at
Edenvale. On his own hearth-rug, in his own house, with a silky white Maltese lapdog and a
beautiful terrier nestling at his feet, stands no English or Scotch interloper, agent, middleman,
or "land-grabber," but the representative of one of the oldest, most honourable, and, I may
add, till recently most honoured families in the county, with his hand on the pistol which
is never out of his reach by day or night. There was once no more popular man in Clare. His
steeplechasers win glory for Ireland at Liverpool, whether they return a profit to their owner
or not. He keeps up, with slight assistance from members of the Hunt, a pack of harriers, and
hunts them himself. His cousin, the late Captain Stacpoole, of Ballyalla, was the well-known
"silent member" who for twenty years represented Ennis in Parliament. Finally, he is spending
at least 3,000l. a year in household expenses alone; but he never leaves his revolver; and
he is in the right, for not two hours ago a local leader declared to me with pale face and
flaming eyes that he would "gladly go to the gallows for 'um."

But the local leader does not, or at least has not yet shot at Mr. Stacpoole because he "can't
get at 'um"--a phrase which requires some explanation. I had, with an eye becoming practised
in such matters, scanned the house and its approaches as I drove up to the door, and had discussed
with the friend who introduced me to its master the chances of "stalking" that gentleman on
his own ground. Trees and brushwood grew more closely to the house than a military engineer
would have permitted, and I hazarded the opinion that it would be easy to "do him over," as
it is called. But on talking to Mr. Stacpoole I quickly discover that the real reason why he
is now alive is that ninety-nine out of a hundred of his enemies are as afraid of him as the
Glenveagh folk up in Donegal are of Mr. J.G. Adair. Brave and resolute to a fault, he has openly
declared his dislike for what is called "protection." "But," he observes, quietly and simply,
"I always carry my large-bore revolver, and I never walk alone, even across the path to look
down at the lake. Whenever I go out, and wherever I go, I have a trustworthy man with me carrying
a double-barrelled gun. His orders are distinct. If anybody fires at me he is not to look at
me, but let me lie, and kill the man who fired the shot. And I am not sure that if he saw an
armed man near me in a suspicious attitude that he wouldn't shoot first. I most certainly will
myself. If I catch any of them armed and lurking about here near my house, I will kill them,
and they know it."

There was no appearance of emotion in the speaker, whose collection of threatening letters
is large and curious. His position was clearly defined. There was no longer any law in Clare.
It was everybody for himself, and he would take care of himself in his own way. Mr. Stacpoole's
situation is certainly extraordinary. He is not an "exterminator," but perhaps he is a "tyrant,"
for everybody is considered one who tries to exact obedience from any created being in the
west of Ireland. He has incurred the ill-will of the popular party, mainly through his debate
with one Welsh, or Walsh, a small farmer.

So far as it is possible to understand the matter, this Welsh and two other persons held a
farm of about fifty acres among them as co-tenants, paying each one-third of the rent. Whether
Welsh had reclaimed bog and increased his store is not clear, but it is certain that when the
lease fell in he had about half of the farm and the other two tenants the other half between them.

Moreover, the land was not "striped" in blocks, but remained in awkward patches, so that each
man was obliged to cross the other's land, and perpetual squabbling occurred. So when the question
of a new lease arose, Mr. Stacpoole sent a surveyor to divide the holding into three equal
shares as justly and conveniently as might be with reference to the tenants' houses. This was
done, the land was re-valued at 12s. 6d. per acre, the tenants preferring to hold it without
a lease. Thus two were pleased and one displeased by the new arrangement, and the displeased
one, Welsh, or Walsh, was finally evicted a short while since, and his house pulled down. Only
the other day a mob assembled, rebuilt Welsh's house, and reinstated his wife and family, who
occupy it at this moment. Welsh himself is not with them for the reason that Mr. Stacpoole
has an attachment out against him. However, the family remains, and no process-server would
show his face at the rebuilt house for fifty pounds. Mr. Stacpoole could, of course, go and
turn the people out as trespassers, but does not think it worth while until he joins issue
with all the recalcitrant tenants under his control. Some forty of these will neither pay up
nor surrender their holdings, and Mr. Stacpoole declares that he will get Dublin writs against
the whole of them, and that if they do not yield he will evict them all and compel the authorities
to support him. There is no concealment about all this, and it is quite certain that if Mr.
Adair's action in the Derryveagh matter is imitated it will only be by aid of the military.
The landlord declares he will "have his own," and the tenants talk ominously of the "short
days and long nights" between this and spring.

Meanwhile they carry on the war after their fashion. Only a few days ago they levelled the
walls of a holding which had not been administered to please them by Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald.
The week before last when Mr. Stacpoole's harriers met there was a crowd assembled of men on
foot and on horseback, and the huntsman was ordered by the fugleman of the mob to go home.
Luckily Mr. Stacpoole himself was at Liverpool, winning races with Turco, or something serious
might have happened. As it was, Mr. Healey and Mr. Studdert, well-known cross-country riders,
and very popular here, being present, as well as one lady, the sport of hare-hunting was allowed
to go on; but this week, although ordered to go out with his hounds, the huntsman thought it
wiser to stay at home, and a meeting of the Hunt has been called to consider what shall be done.

The people can and will prevent Mr. Stacpoole from hunting unless members of the Hunt think
it worth while to turn out with carbines and revolvers, with the possible result of bringing
on a civil war. Probably the harriers will be taken over by a Committee of the Hunt to whom
the present owner offers them, as well as the use of his kennels. Should his harriers be effectually
prevented from hunting he will have no farther reason for remaining in the country, and will
probably shut up his house, dismiss his servants, and leave Ireland; but this he will not do
until he has "had his own."

VIII.

PATRIOTS.

ENNIS, CO. CLARE, Nov. 22nd.

Ennis, on deliberate inspection, proves to be by far the most interesting western town I have
yet visited. To paraphrase a familiar saying, its politics and its liquor are as strong as
they are abundant. Ennis is famous for its electioneering fights, for its three bridges, for
its public square "forenint" O'Connell's statue, said to have held thirty thousand people on
a space which would not contain a fifth of that number, for its numerous banks, for its fine
salmon river, the Fergus, for its police barrack, once the mansion of the Crowe family, and
for its long since closed Turkish bath, the ruined proprietor whereof is now in the lunatic
asylum on the road to Ballyalla. Ennis is also proud of its County Club, of its handsome drapery
stores, of its brand-new waterworks, of its hundred and odd whisky-shops, and of its patriots.
Of the latter by far the most eminent is a certain man named in newspaper reports M.G. Considine,
Esq., but better known to his fellow-citizens as "Dirty Mick." Mr. Considine is a fine specimen
of the good old crusted Irish patriot. He has pursued patriotism ever since the day of Daniel
O'Connell, and it redounds greatly to his honour that he is now as poor as when he started
in that profession.

This Milesian Diogenes is in many respects the most remarkable man in county Clare, after,
if not before, The O'Gorman Mahon himself. He is also the dirtiest. But the grime on Mr. Considine
has a romantic origin. It is the fakir's robe of filth. When he was only a budding patriot
the great Liberator once kissed him. Mr. Considine determined that the cheek sanctified by
the embrace of O'Connell should never again be profaned by water, that the kiss should never
be washed off. Without speculating as to the degree of cleanliness previously favoured by Mr.
Considine, it must be conceded that it is very difficult to wash day by day, or week by week,
as the case may be, round a certain spot on one cheek which, moreover, would soon get out of
harmony with the remainder of the countenance. It is easier, "wiser, better far," to bring
the whole face into harmony with the sacred sunny side of it.

This has been done; and the result is a picture worthy of Murillo or Zurbaran. From the grimy
but handsome well-cut face gleam a pair of bright, marvellously bright blue eyes, and the voice
which bids welcome to the stranger is curiously sweet and sonorous. Mr. Considine is quite
the best speaker here, and his summons will always bring an audience to Ennis. One enthusiast
said to me, "Whin he dies, may the heaven be his bed, and his statue should be beside O'Connell's
in Ennis." Now this model patriot, whom every one must perforce respect for his perfect honesty
and disinterestedness, keeps a wretched little shop in a trumpery cabin. His stock-in-trade
consists of a few newspapers, his pantry holds but potatoes. Yet he is a great power in Ennis,
and the candidate for that borough who neglected him would fare badly. I am not insinuating
that any charge of venality can attach to him. Quite the contrary. He is admitted to be a perfectly
disinterested citizen by those most opposed to him socially and politically. He is not only
one of those who have kept the sacred fire of agitation burning since the days of O'Connell,
but he is the possessor of relics of '98. He owns and dons upon occasion the Vinegar Hill uniform,
and has '98 flags by him to air on great days. By dint of sheer honesty and truthfulness this
poor grimy old man has become actually one of the chiefs of county Clare.

Another patriot came under my notice in a queer kind of way. I had gone to look at the reclamation
works on the Fergus river, and there encountered a scene odd and peculiar beyond previous experience.
Shortly before me, had arrived Mr. Charles George Mahon, the nephew of The O'Gorman Mahon,
and a Mr. Crowe. These two gentlemen being neighbours of Mr. Drinkwater, had looked in to see
his works, and in a friendly way were chatting to one of his foremen, bringing work to a standstill,
but conducting themselves with the easy affability common to the lesser proprietors of county
Clare. All was going smoothly when, like his predecessors, disregarding the warning that no
person could be admitted except on business, a strange personage put in an appearance. Neither
Cruikshank, Daumier, nor Doré ever conceived a more grotesque figure than that which entered
the Clare Reclamation works.

Imagine a singularly small rough-coated donkey stunted by too early and too hard work, and
on its back a cripple--a cul-de-jatte--carrying his crutches with him, laid across the withers
of the unfortunate animal he bestrode. Imagine also a face, very cleanly washed, and of that
Semitic outline and expression by no means uncommon in Connaught, dark flashing eyes, an aquiline
nose, and a wide expressive mouth. Dismounted from his steed and placed up against the wall,
the decently dressed and well-spoken man, propped up on his crutches, would have been thought
rather an object of charitable interest than of distrust, if not of fear.

This poor and apparently helpless man is a popular speaker and lecturer--one who does not deliver
his harangues in high places, but rides on his donkey from village to village, spreading the
doctrines now acceptable to the rural population. By the upper classes he is abhorred as a
specially obnoxious and pestilent person. He, on the other hand, considers himself oppressed.
He was a National Schoolmaster, but got into a scrape about a threatening letter, which, it
is fair to state, was not completely brought home to him. However, he lost his place. In the
hope that he might be reinstated he passed a science and art examination, but he fared no better,
and then found that the trade of a popular agitator was the most congenial one he could pursue.
He is also an itinerant scribe, writing letters for people who cannot write, making aggrieved
people aware of the full extent of their grievance, and assisting them to send furious letters
to the smaller local newspapers, concerning which I hesitate to express any opinion, lest the
readers of the Daily News should think they had stumbled upon the Commination Service.

The bright-eyed, flexible-mouthed cul-de-jatte was firmly planted against a stone wall, when
his eye caught the figures of the two gentlemen talking to Mr. Drinkwater's quarrymen. Immediately
the eye before-mentioned was aflame, and in sonorous tones the owner "war-r-r-ned" the foremen
and workmen from holding any converse with Mr. Charles George Mahon, whom he addressed personally
as "a rack-renting landlord," and otherwise held up to scorn and derision. Perched on his crutches,
the cripple defied him, and poured out a torrent of eloquence on "the fiery dthragon of hunger"
and other direful creatures, including landlords, which would have set at defiance Canon Dwyer's
"exploded shaft of Greek philosophy." The scene afforded, at least to many there present, as
much amusement as astonishment. That a nephew of a county member should be publicly attacked
before a large number of people and be compelled to hear them "war-r-r-ned" not to buy an egg
or a pat of butter from his tenants would be incredible anywhere else than in Ireland at this
moment. But people are growing accustomed to strange things in these parts.

The Clare Harriers Hunt Club met on Saturday, when Mr. Richard Stacpoole formally made the
offer of the hounds, got together by himself at great expense, to the members of any Hunt Committee
that might be found. The offer was declined. Mr. Stacpoole then declared his resolution to
sell off the pack. He cannot keep them at Edenvale, for his "dog-feeder" has been "warned"
not to give bite or sup to the animals for his life. So the hounds go to England to be sold,
and the eviction--of landlords--goes merrily on. Such things may appear impossible. But it
is precisely The Impossible which occurs every day in Ireland.

IX.

ON THE FERGUS.

ENNIS, CO. CLARE, Friday, Nov. 26th.

It is noteworthy that the only two persons who are doing much reclamation work in the West
of Ireland are Manchester men. Mr. Mitchell Henry has awakened Connemara, and Mr. Drinkwater
has performed a similar operation upon county Clare Nothing in connection with the Kylemore
and Fergus Reclamation works, which have brought to and distributed a large sum of money in
their respective districts, is more remarkable than the apathy of the surrounding proprietors
in one case and their hostility in the other. Mr. Mitchell Henry could afford to wait, and
his patience has been attended with success; but Mr. Drinkwater was compelled to encounter,
not mere passive indifference, but active acquisitiveness. For a time stretching beyond the
memory of man the reclamation of what is called the Clare "slob" has been talked about. This
talking stage is not unfamiliar in the recent history of Ireland.

Everything has been talked about, and some few things have been done after a fashion. There
remains in Galway a very comfortable and well-managed hotel at the railway station, which was
originally built with a view to the American traffic scheme since become notorious; but the
Galway people still believe that their ships were wrecked by a combination of Liverpool merchants
interested in destroying them. The Harbour of Foynes, on the Shannon, was once talked about,
but never grew into a seaport; while the fishing-piers, as they are called, lie dotted around
the coast in places to which nobody ever goes and from which nobody ever comes. But it was
seen long ago that something could be done with the Fergus "slob" if anybody could be found
to do anything. Companies were formed and concessions were obtained, but nothing was done,
although several square miles of magnificent alluvial deposit sixteen feet in depth were to
be had for the asking.

In 1843 The O'Gorman Mahon himself, as a county member, talked about the grand lands to be
reclaimed from the Fergus, and the county talked about it; but nothing was done. This is the
pleasant way of the West. All take an interest in any possible or impossible enterprise; but
when it comes to finding some money and doing something, the scheme is relegated to the limbo
of things undone.

The principal riparian proprietors were Lords Inchiquin, Leconfield, and Conyngham, mostly
absentees. Lord Conyngham was naturally indifferent, for his estate in Clare was to be sold
in Dublin on Tuesday, and his interest in the county thus had ceased. Lord Leconfield is also
an absentee, without even an address in the county. Perhaps, as the three noblemen mentioned
own between them 85,226 acres in county Clare alone, without counting their other possessions,
they thought that at any rate there was land enough, such as it is, in the county. Judging
by the Government valuation the land held by them is not of the best quality, for it is set
down at 38,188l., and probably is not let at very much more than that sum; but at the most
moderate estimate they draw, or rather drew, more than 40,000l. a year from county Clare. When
they were invited to share in reclaiming the rich mud-banks of the Fergus, and thus add 10,000
acres of virgin soil to the rateable value of the county, they declined with perfect unanimity.
They did more than this. When Mr. Drinkwater had bought out the concessionees of 1860 and 1873--who
had not struck a single stroke of work--and was endeavouring to get the necessary Bills through
Parliament, he found himself confronted by the seignorial and other vested rights of these
great landowners, who appeared determined, not only to do nothing themselves, but to prevent
anybody else from doing anything--unless he paid handsomely for their permission.

I do not cite this as an act of special iniquity. Their action was only part of the general
system of taking as much out of Ireland as possible and putting nothing into it. A claim of
20,000l. and 5 per cent. of the land reclaimed for manorial rights over a mud-bank could hardly
be overlooked by the Crown; and it is, I believe, not quite settled how this large sum of money
and valuable land is to be divided, if at all. The landowners base their claim on various grants
and charters and the Crown opposes them on public grounds, while the Court of Chancery takes
care of the money. Contending against "landlordism" and other difficulties Mr. Drinkwater pushed
vigorously on, almost, as it has turned out, a little too vigorously for his own interest.
The English public is aware that the Government has at various times encouraged Irish landlords
to improve their property by offering to lend, at different rates of interest, two-thirds of
the money to be spent, always with the proviso that the Government engineer approves of the
plan and sees the work well and duly performed. Under the old Act of William IV., passed in
1835, the rate of interest was fixed at 5 per cent. Under this statute Mr. Drinkwater applied
for 45,000l. and thanks to his ill-timed energy in urging his application, obtained his loan
at 5 per cent., just before the Act of 1879 was brought in for affording somewhat similar help
at 1 per cent.

Mr. Drinkwater has thus the satisfaction of knowing that his neighbour, Lord Inchiquin, who
has commenced improvements on his own account, has obtained 8,000l. at 1 per cent., while he
pays 5 upon the large sum employed on the Clare Slob Reclamation; a state of things greatly
enjoyed here as turning the laugh against "the Saxon."

Being sceptical about the "slob," I went to see it. When I started the moon was shining so
brightly that it would have been impossible to miss a landlord at forty yards. The sky was
as blue and clear as that of Como or Lugano; but the wind which swept over Ballyala's sapphire
lake was of a "nipping and an eager" quality, not commonly encountered in Italy. The ground
was as hard as steel and as slippery as glass, and the first half-mile convinced us that the
best thing to be done was to get off the car, catch hold of the mare's head, and try to hold
her on her legs while struggling to keep on our own. It was three miles to the nearest blacksmith's,
but there was nothing for it but to walk to Ennis as well as might be along the slippery road.

This mode of progression was very slow, and it was nearly half-past eight when we reached that
centre of political and alcoholic existence. Leaving the mare to be "sharpened" we strolled
through the town in contemplative mood. Not a shop was open. Not a blind was drawn. Not a soul
was stirring excepting the blacksmith, who had been knocked up comparatively early by the market
folk. There was ample time and space to inspect the fierce but sleepy-headed town. In the main
street I observed six grog-shops, side by side, actually shoulder to shoulder, cheek by jowl.
Another street appeared to be all grog-shops but for the ominous exception of an undertaker.
About nine o'clock a few people came out of chapel, and shortly afterwards the butchers' shops
gave signs of life, one opening on each side of the main street, and blinking like a bloodshot
eye upon the slumbering groceries and groggeries, drapery stores, and general drowsiness. Ennis
was evidently sleeping off the previous day's whisky, and preparing to renew the battle with
"John Jamieson."

Presently the mare came round to the door of the principal hotel. The people there were just
stirring, and visions of brooms and unkempt back-hair were frequent. At last we were on the
road to Clare Castle, which might, in the high-flown language of the West, be fitly described
as the "seaport" of Ennis. The river Fergus flows through Ennis, but it is broader and deeper
at Clare Castle, a village of ordinary Connaught hovels. There is, however, a quay here, a
relic of "relief-work" in famine time, and affording "convenience" for vessels of considerable
size. Below the bridge and alongside the quay lies a large steam-tug, and lower down the stream
is moored a similar vessel. A large number of rafts are being laden with stone to be presently
towed down to the reclamation works. As we steam down the Fergus towards its junction with
the Shannon at "The Beeves" rock, the stream spreads out to a great width, enclosing several
islands, green as emeralds, of which Smith's Island and Islandavanna are, perhaps, the principal.

There is, however, a marked difference between the area of the Fergus at high and low water.
What at one time is an inland sea, is at the other a vast lake of mud rich in the constituents
of fertility. As we reach this point of the river a mist arises compelling reduced speed, and
as we pass by the upper station of the Slob Works a low range of corrugated iron shedding shines
out suddenly through a break in the vapour, and, as the sun again pierces through, a long,
low, dark line is seen stretching from the shore into the water like the extremity of some
huge saurian of the Silurian period reposing on his native slime and ooze. But the lengthy
monster lying in a vast curve is not at peace, for on the jagged ridge of his mighty back a
puffing, snorting, smoking plague perpetually runs up and down. The apparent plague, however,
is really increasing the size of the saurian. Every day hundreds of tons of stone are carried
over his back-ridge and tipped into the water at the end of him, while scores of raftloads
are flung into the water on the line staked and flagged out by the officials of the Government.
Within a few weeks the growth of the saurian will not cease by day or night, until, as in the
case of his kindred ophidian, his two extremities are brought together. For Mr. Drinkwater
has contracted with the British Electric Lighting Company to supply him with the electric light.
The motive power is all ready, and no sooner is the apparatus fixed than county Clare will
be astonished by the sight of work going on perpetually till it is completed, and amazement
will reach its highest pitch. The people, gentle and simple, already confess themselves astonished
at what can and has been done, and those who at first laughed are now seeking how they may
best imitate.

As the tail of the saurian may be said to stretch into the water high above Islandavanna, so
may his head be said to project from that pretty patch of verdure. Islandavanna is already
a peninsula being connected with the mainland by a massive stone causeway, traversed every
half-hour by a locomotive, hauling a train of trucks laden with stone, which, passing over
the end of the island, runs out into the water to the "tip end," as it is called.

So the work is carried on, like modern railway tunnelling, from both ends simultaneously, and
when head and tail of the saurian meet the first 1,500 acres will be reclaimed. The "slob"
will be easy to drain, and it is tolerably certain that within twelve months the first instalment
will be ready for cropping. It is a sight to make a Dutchman's mouth water--a "polder" of surpassing
excellence, but it is viewed in a different light by enthusiastic wild duck shooters, who,
like the owner of a grouse moor, look upon drainage and reclamation as the visible work of
the devil. I do not think they need be alarmed for some time to come, for, without exaggeration,
I have seen so many duck on the Fergus and the lower Shannon that I hesitate to speak of figures
and incur the fate of Messer Marco Polo, who, when he spoke of the vast population of China,
was nick-named by his incredulous countrymen "Marco Millione." But when I say that I have seen
scores of flights a quarter of a mile long, that I have seen reaches of water so full of ducks
and other water fowl that they looked like floating islands, I only give a faint idea of the
quantity I have beheld between Islandavanna and the abortive ocean steam-packet port of Foynes.

Islandavanna is one of three stations of the reclamation works, and is occupied by about a
third of the four hundred and fifty men now at work. In the summer seven hundred were employed,
but the present season is not so favourable for getting stone and pushing on operations.

The electric light, however, will, it is hoped, help matters greatly, and redress the balance
of the "long nights and short days." By the way, I saw at Islandavanna, or rather at the other
end of the causeway which connects it with the mainland, a man who once employed that expression
in the menacing manner I have previously alluded to, with the effect of causing the foreman
of the works to seek occupation in another and far distant land. Owing to some disagreement
the foreman had dismissed or suspended this man, who had already been tried for murder and
acquitted. Hereat he took his gun to go snipe-shooting as he said, walked about lanes and generally
hovered about the place in such threatening fashion that it was thought well to persuade the
foreman to go away. At the present moment Mr. Drinkwater and his friend Mr. Johnstone, the
civil engineer from whose plans the work is carried out, are on the best terms with the workpeople;
but the process by which comfortable relations have been brought about has been gradual. It
is not pretended that when labour is required, and there is money to pay for it, any prejudice
is felt against the Saxon as an employer. Far from it. A downright, straightforward Saxon,
even if he be a Protestant, is looked upon by the Irish working folk with far less suspicion
than one of their own class, and there is little fear of their combining against him, for they
are far more likely to quarrel amongst themselves.

It is hardly possible to convey more than the faintest idea of the rancour evolved by the jealousy
of the Clare men against the Limerick men, of the hatred of both against a Galway man, and
of the aversion of all three counties for Mayo and Donegal people. The citizens of the petty
republics of Greece and Italy never abhorred each other more fervently. Now on large works
with sub-contractors, gangers, artizans, and labourers, by piece and by day, it is no easy
matter to keep matters going smoothly. It is needless to say that skilled artizans, such as
engine-men and the like, are not picked up in county Clare; but no especial spite is felt against
them. They are Englishmen, and that is sufficient; but if a gang of Clare men be dismissed
and one of Limerick men taken on, there are signs of trouble in the air. Justice must be done
to county Clare. Are the children of the soil to want bread while strangers eat it? For a Limerick
man to the poor untravelled folk of Clare Castle, of Kilrush, and of Kilbaha is a stranger.
Yet the small peasant cultivators on an islet near Islandavanna flatly refused to work at the
"slob." Smoking a pipe and looking at a cow and calf grazing was a more congenial occupation,
so they preferred staying at home. The slob work was too hard entirely. Now, this may appear
incredible to those who have only seen the awakened Irishmen who do a vast quantity of the
hardest and roughest kind of work in Great Britain and in the United States. In the latter
country it is a matter of notoriety, supported in my own case by the evidence of my eyesight,
that almost all the hard manual labour is performed by Irishmen and negroes. But downright
steady hard work is just what the Western Irishman is not accustomed to at home. He will work
nobly for a spurt, but when the spurt is over he loves to loiter and do as he likes.

It is no easy matter to found such a centre of industry as the works on the Fergus, but it
is to be sincerely hoped that many such attempts will be made despite of discouragement. Experience
has shown that the neglected and, in many localities, degraded West is abundantly capable of
improvement. Mr. Drinkwater determined to take the only way possible in these parts, that is,
to feed and lodge his little army of workpeople, to establish a club for them, to give them
a reading-room, to get porter for them at wholesale price--in short, to afford them every inducement
to prefer the new settlements on the Fergus to the wretched huts and groggeries of Clare Castle
and the surrounding villages. He insists, moreover, that every man shall have his half-pound
of meat, either beef, mutton, or bacon, every day but Friday.

There is no pretence of philanthropy in all this. It is done on the ground that it is foolish
to pay a man liberal wages, if he have to walk several miles to work and home again, and be
allowed to live on a scant supply of potatoes and bread, washed down with too much of the whisky
of the country. An ill-fed man can no more work well than an ill-fed horse, and inasmuch as
the sooner the work is done the less interest will be paid on the Government loan, it is obviously
important to get the work done as soon as possible. Hence high wages, on the condition that
a certain proportion shall be spent on food and lodging, in a range of labourers' houses admirably
built of iron lined with wood, perfectly warmed and lighted, and kept wonderfully clean. There
are a store-house and a refectory, a cooking department and dormitories, perfectly ventilated
and swept and garnished every day. Tea, beer, and other beverages except whisky can be obtained,
and there is an abundant supply of books and newspapers. Every facility and encouragement is
given to the priests to visit their people. In short, the colony on the Fergus Reclamation
Works is one of the most extraordinary sights in the West of Ireland. As the entire work will
hardly be completed under five or six years, the influence of such a community of people doing
their work steadily and thoroughly ought to be very valuable.

Such works, as well as the reclamation of mountain and bog suggested and tried by Mr. Mitchell
Henry for the benefit of peasant cultivators, are absolutely required to quicken the industry
of the languishing West. The poor people here require to be taught many things; notably to
obey orders, to mind their own business, to hold their tongues, and to wash themselves; but
it is impossible to expect four such virtues as obedience, industry, silence, and cleanliness
to be acquired all at once by people who have been neglected for centuries. But there can be
no radical defect in them, for they work hard enough in America, and under strict taskmasters
too, for a Yankee farmer is like a Yankee skipper, inclined to pay good wages, but to insist
on the money being earned. So far as discipline is concerned there is no better soldier or
soldier-servant than a Western Irishman, none more patient under difficulty and privation,
none so full of cheerfulness and resource. Probably the conditions of life are more favourable
elsewhere, as they may easily be. Here in county Clare there seems to a perhaps too-hasty observer
a complete want of social homogeneity. What lamps of refinement and intellectual culture burn
here burn for each other only, and serve but to intensify the darkness around.

In no part of Ireland that I have seen are class distinctions more sharply defined. The landholding
gentry are with but two or three exceptions Protestants, and, with the exception of Lord Inchiquin,
are of English, Scotch, or Dutch descent, as such names as Vandeleur, Crowe, Stacpoole, and
Burton indicate. I am not aware of the landed possessions of The O'Gorman Mahon, but I have
already stated that his nephew holds only a moderate estate, let by the way at about three
times the Government valuation--but not, I must add, necessarily, rack-rented, for Griffiths
is, for reasons fully explained by a score of writers beside myself, a deceptive guide in grazing
counties. The gentry of the county, however, are nearly all Protestant, and it is curious to
note on Sunday at Ennis how the masters and their families go to one church and their servants
to another. I am not insinuating that there is any sectarian squabbling. There is not, for
the simple reason that the two classes of gentry and tradesfolk are too far apart to come into
collision. On one side of a broad line stand the lords of the soil, of foreign descent, of
Protestant religion, of exclusive social caste; on the other stand the people, the shop-keepers,
the greater farmers and the peasants, all of whom are Irish Roman Catholics, and bound to each
other by the ties of common religion, common descent, and often of actual kinship. There is,
excepting perhaps a dozen professional men, no middle-class at all, through which the cultivation
of the superior strata could permeate to the lower.

Probably no more difficult social condition ever presented itself. To show how completely the
members of what ought to be a middle-class, I mean the large tenant-farmers, are identified
with the peasant class, I may add that many of them, working with a capital of many thousands
of pounds, are subscribers to the Land League, and that many are not paying their rent. Lord
Inchiquin enjoys a good reputation as a landlord; but his tenants refuse to pay more than Griffiths's
valuation, and I hear that other great landlords in the county are not much more fortunate.
What is most singular of all is that the middlemen, who are subletting and subdividing their
holdings at tremendous rack-rents, are among the most prominent in refusing to pay the chief
landlord. They see a great immediate advantage to themselves in the present movement, for they
give but short credit to their tenants, while they enjoy the full benefit of a "hanging gale,"
or owing always half a year's rent, according to the custom of this county.

ENNIS, COUNTY CLARE, November 28th.

The first news which greeted me on Friday night was, that, at a meeting of magistrates on Wednesday
morning, Mr. Richard Stacpoole had been persuaded to accept police protection, and that two
men living at Ballygoree, near Ballyalla, had been taken out of their houses on Thursday night
and severely taken to task for having committed the atrocity of paying their rent. The poor
fellows urged, in extenuation, that they had the money, that they owed it, and that their holdings
were not "set" at an extravagant price. All this availed them nothing. They were compelled
to kneel down in the midst of the muddy road, in the dead of the night, and to solemnly swear
never to behave so wickedly again, after which six guns were fired in a volley over their heads,
and they were allowed to regain their houses.

The event which had drawn me back to Ennis was a meeting of the magistrates of Clare, specially
called to consider the state of the county. A large attendance was looked for, and Saturday
being market day in Ennis, two more things were certain--the first, that the town would be
full of people, and the second, that the people would be full of whisky. A great crowd assembled
to greet the magistrates on their arrival, but, owing to the meeting taking place two hours
before the published time, a grand opportunity of hooting the more unpopular justices of the
peace was lost, and the "makings of a shindy" evaporated in some sporadic groaning. There was
a very large attendance of magistrates. Lord Inchiquin, the Lord-Lieutenant of the county,
was present, as well as Mr. Burton, of Carnelly; Mr. T. Crowe, of Dromore; Colonel Macdonell;
Mr. Hall, of Cluny, who has outlived sundry attempts at assassination; Mr. Dawson, of Bunratty;
Mr. Hewett; and thirty-eight other magistrates. The formal business of the day was got through
without speechifying, and after some little consultation the following resolutions were adopted:--

  First Resolution--That the state of lawlessness and intimidation
      at present existing in this county is such that the law is
      utterly unable to cope with it, and urgently demands the
      attention of her Majesty's Government.

  Second Resolution--That the landowners, having hitherto shown the
      greatest forbearance, will doubtless now be compelled to take
      legal proceedings to enforce the payment of rent, in order to
      meet their own pressing obligations, and as this can only be
      done at the imminent risk of life we consider that the general
      peace of the county will very shortly be seriously endangered.

  Third Resolution--That with a view to the maintenance of law and
      order we respectfully call on her Majesty's Government
      immediately to summon Parliament, in order to obtain such
      extraordinary powers as shall enable them to deal effectively
      with a conspiracy unprecedented in character, which aims at
      the total disorganization of society.

It is quite possible that these resolutions may produce some astonishment in England, especially
now that it is well known that nothing beyond a special emergency will induce the Government
to adopt coercive measures. But things said and done in the West of Ireland are apt to be somewhat
after date. Still the resolutions of the Clare magistrates have their value as giving a tolerably
clear idea of what may be designated the landlord mind. Minute subdivisions set aside, there
are at least four ways of looking at the subject of the day in this part of Ireland. There
is the view of a great landlord who, because he helped his people with food during the potato
famine and with money to emigrate with afterwards, and has spent a little money here and there
out of a huge income, thinks he has amply discharged his duty to his tenants. It is true that
he began by charging them 4 and 5 per cent, respectively on building and drainage improvements,
a tolerably round percentage; but it is fair to admit that for several years past he has not
charged more than 2½ per cent, for such improvements as he has made. The great landlords of
this county are less attacked than others by popular orators, mainly because their rents are
not exorbitantly high in the first place. The land is let on lease for terms as long sometimes
as sixty-four years, and is sometimes underlet at greatly increased prices to the ultimate
tenants, whose precarious condition brings the "head" landlord into undeserved odium. The great
landholders and their agents maintain that to quote Griffiths against a landlord who has spent
money in improvements since that valuation was made, and let his farms so low that other people
can relet them at a profit, is a manifest absurdity.

Another practical view of the landlord mind is that it is foolish to go on borrowing money
under the Act of 1879 during the present uncertain condition of tenure and impossibility of
getting in rents. Hence the Scariff drainage works, for which 34,000l. was to be borrowed by
the owners of the property affected by the scheme, have been suddenly abandoned, and will not
be carried any further, at least during the present winter. One consequence of this decision
will be to throw a large number of people out of employ, who must either leave Clare or ask
for relief.

The first order of the landlord mind, however, is, to do it justice, not affected very seriously
by the present crisis. The great landholders of Clare and Limerick are not in a heavily mortgaged
or downright insolvent condition. Like the wealthy manufacturer during a strike, they do not
care either to employ or to threaten harsh measures against their tenants. There is time enough
for the present agitation to subside, as others have subsided, and if the Government should
wish to acquire their land and disestablish "landlordism," as Mr. Parnell suggests, so much
the better, especially since it has become manifest by the example of the Marquis of Conyngham's
estate that purchasers, other than tenants, are hardly to be found for Irish property. And--as
the agent of a great absentee landholder observed to me--of what avail would it be to proceed
to ulterior measures against the tenants? Granted that all the weary delays of the local courts
were got rid of by a Dublin writ, what would be the consequence? The tenant would, unless he
chose to spend his own ready money to defend his case in Dublin, be swiftly ejected--that is,
if sufficient police were requisitioned to make any attempt at resistance absurd. The landlord
would get his own after a fashion; but unless he chose to keep a force of police on his farms
the dispossessed tenants would be reinstated and their houses rebuilt by the mob; and nothing
would be got in the shape of rent. As no person in the possession of his senses would take
any farm from which a tenant had been evicted, the landlord would have only one course to pursue.
He must farm his land himself, and then he would be "isolated" or "Boycotted." Nobody would
work for him; nobody would buy anything from his farms.

Everybody in Ennis knows the case of Littleton, whose farm is now under "taboo," and whose
oats no man dare buy, and the similar case of a draper who had sold some material to a man
working on the "Boycotted" farm, and was compelled to take it back. "There is nothing now,"
added another informant, "but to touch your hat to tenants, for they have left off doing so
to you. And it is folly to talk of reprisals, or of persevering in hunting and going armed
to the meet. Suppose an affray occurred and I shot a tenant, I should be most assuredly identified,
tried, convicted, and severely punished, if not hanged. But if a tenant shot me it would be
difficult to identify him, more difficult to arrest him, and downright impossible to convict
him. Since Lord O'Hagan's Jury Act it is quite impossible to get convictions against the lower
orders--witness the memorable instance of Mr. Creagh, when the assassin's gun burst and blew
his finger off. The prisoner and his finger were both in court, there was no manner of doubt,
and yet the jury acquitted him."

Thus far the greater landowner or his agents. The tone is one of patient, if not amused, endurance,
mingled, of course, with profound contempt for the personnel of the Land League. But the smaller
and resident landlord is of much more inflammable stuff. A strike against rent-paying signifies
to him an end of all supplies. Whether he have two thousand or five thousand a year in land--for
I omit the little "squireen" class as of no importance on either side of the question--he has
almost certainly settlements and probably mortgages on his estate. Now, mortgagees in Dublin
or London are not at all ready to take into account the difficulty of collecting rents in Connaught,
and insist on being paid.

Even their rancour, however, has moderated slightly just of late, for they are as afraid to
foreclose on unsaleable property as the mortgagor is of losing his claim on it for ever. But
the settlements must be paid, and as no rents are coming in, dowagers are obdurate, and the
landlord lives well up to his means, times are hard just now in county Clare.

It is not exactly "tyranny" which inclines the lesser landlord to get the rent out of his tenant,
but his own need, which drives him to extreme measures. In bitterness of spirit he bewails
his dulness in not following the example of some of his peers in getting rid of their tenantry
and farming their land themselves, like Colonel Barnard in King's County. He also envies the
lot of Mr. "Tom" Crowe, of Dromore, who, without acquiring the name of an "exterminator" or
a "tyrant," has succeeded in shaking off the load of teeming population and the abomination
of "duty work" by degrees, and has now a magnificent farm of his own which might bear the inspection
of Mr. Clare Read himself, and of all Norfolk to boot. Mr. Crowe, too, has not gone through
the ordeal of being shot at like Colonel Barnard, and if not specially loved by the people,
has no kind of quarrel with them. Mr. Burton, of Carnelly, who owns 9,669 acres in Clare, has
been fortunate in getting some rent, mainly in consequence of his tact in driving round one
day to collect it himself and taking his tenants by surprise. But Mr. Burton is an exception,
both in tact and fortune, to the majority of landlords of the second rank. Colonel Vandeleur
has been very unfortunate, like all landholders encumbered with what would be called small
farmers in England. The few really large farmers in Clare, as a rule, have paid up either openly
or privately, and in sentiment are quite with the landlord class. The lesser landlords are
talking of nothing but Dublin writs, and declare that the so-called peace of the county is
only unbroken because no attempt is made to execute the law.

The farmers are of course peaceful enough so long as they are permitted to send a rich harvest
to market, to pocket the proceeds, and to pay no rent. "But," said a small landholder to me,
"is this law and order? Because I know it is hopeless at this moment to recover my rent, and
therefore abstain from proceedings, does it follow that the peace would not be broken were
I to put the law into operation?" I am sorry for this gentleman, for I know that he is what
is called in commerce a "weak holder," or one who can afford neither to conduct his business
with a firm hand nor to throw it aside till better times. He must go on, for he has mortgages
and settlements on his estates; and, admitted that his tenants would go away to-morrow without
any trouble, he could not spare what they owe him, and assuredly would not find new tenants
for his farms. He of course is for the immediate suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act, and declares
that to be the most merciful solution of the immediate difficulty. To him the "Three F's" appear
altogether diabolical, and he proposes the substitution of "Three D's"--Disarmament, Disfranchisement,
and a Dictator, the more military the better.

From the medium and smaller farmers, who with the whisky dealers and the majority of the other
tradespeople form the opposite camp, I hear that no measure that the Government can pass before
the present Parliament will be acceptable to what is called the Irish people. It is now averred
that the extension of the borough franchise to counties must be carried before a Parliament
adequate to deal with the Irish question is formed. This appears a strong demand, and one likely
to protract the present distracted state of the country. But I hear, on the best authority,
that the Land League and the associated farmers can wait. They are in no hurry. England can
take her own time and they will wait patiently, meanwhile of course paying no rent, nor any
other debts which may prove inconvenient.

Having passed their resolutions, the magistrates drive off quietly enough--but by daylight.
Within the last three weeks the County Club sittings have been earlier than usual, the members
thinking it at least as well to get home before dark. The valedictory wish expressed here just
now is of itself ominous. It is not "Good-bye" or "Good-night," but "Safe home."

X.

PALLAS AND THE PALLADIANS.

LIMERICK.

In a previous letter I hinted that the well-to-do farmers of the West were not a whit more
prompt in paying their rent than the starveling peasants of Mayo and Connemara, who, at the
best, are barely able to keep body and soul together. Trusting far more to what I see than
to what I hear, I become aware that in these troubled districts of Ireland, it is precisely
the most favoured spots which are the most mutinous. Ballina, the most prosperous town in Mayo,
is a stronghold of the anti-landlord party; and the Ballinrobe, Claremorris, and Cong country,
full of good land and comparatively large farmers, is the district which has isolated Mr. Boycott,
whose turnips and potatoes will probably cost the country and the county at least a guinea
a piece. In no part of Mayo or Galway is the Land League more perfectly organised than in Clare,
yet the farmers in that county are confessedly well off. There are some of course towards the
sea, in the direction of Loop Head, who are poorly off, but the great majority are by no means
in evil case. Ocular demonstration of this fact is supplied by the numerous farmhouses of the
better class with which the country is studded. These are not merely large cabins, but houses,
some of which are whitewashed. The haggards are full of corn-stacks, the rich pastures are
full of kine. There is every visible evidence of material prosperity. It is true that when
one has driven up the private road, be the same a mere "boreen" or a "shplendid avenue," the
bell is found to be broken, the knocker wrenched off, the blinds hauled up awry, and the servants
hard to be got at; but the householder is prosperous nevertheless. His larder is well supplied
with poultry and wild fowl, his cellar contains "lashings," not only of "Parliament and pot,"
or "John Jamieson" and illicit "potheen," but of port and sherry, claret and champagne. His
daughters are at the costly training schools of the Sacré Coeur, his lads are studying law
in Dublin. Yet this man is a subscriber to the Land League either by sympathy or, as is quite
as probable, by terror. Farmers of not quite such large acreage live in almost equally luxurious
style. Their houses, that is the "show" rooms, are solidly if tastelessly furnished. Their
horses and jaunting cars carry them to chapel; they live in the midst of rude plenty. If further
demonstration be needed, I will point to the groceries and wine stores of Ennis. There are
at least three of these almost on the scale of Fortnum and Mason's or Hedges and Butler's.
Now Ennis is what an American traveller might be tempted to call a "one-horse" town of some
six or seven thousand inhabitants, yet its grocery and drapery stores would hardly be beaten
in York or Chester. Every imaginable eatable or drinkable can be obtained always for ready
money, and very often on credit, and I am informed that all articles of feminine adornment,
including cosmetics, are also to be had. Passing still farther from the domain of things seen
to that of things heard of, I am assured on the best authority that for years past the banks
have not held so much money on deposit as at the present moment. Yet nobody pays his rent.
The form of offering Griffith's valuation is gone through, albeit it is known that that calculation
is absolutely untrustworthy so far as a pasture county like Clare is concerned.

My remarks concerning county Clare will apply, almost with greater force, to county Limerick.
The city is of course a very different place from Ennis; but it is impossible to avoid noticing
from the window at which I sit writing the crowds of purchasers streaming in and out of Cannock
and Co.'s store, from late in the morning till early in the evening. I use the last words advisedly,
for the people of the West seem to have accepted Charles Lamb's humorous quibble in good faith.
If they begin work later than any other civilized people, they assuredly leave off earlier.
But until evening sets in there is a torrent of customers pouring in over the way, and wooing
the eye from the contemplation of the Shannon at the Thomond Bridge. Of the groggeries of Limerick
and of the poison vended in them, I will forbear to discourse, for my business just now is
with the country rather than with the town.

Having heard much of the outrages at Pallas on the Tipperary border, I determined to drive
over and visit the scene of action. For this country the journey was a short one; fifteen or
sixteen miles out and in on an outside car is thought a mere trifle in Limerick. The trip occupied
the entire day nevertheless. As we drove out of Limerick past the great pig-slaughtering and
curing houses, we soon became aware that an immense convergence of the farming interest on
Limerick was taking place. Car-load after car-load of well-dressed people passed us, and then
came horsemen riding in couples or by half-dozens. For the most part the cavaliers were very
well mounted, and also well and warmly dressed in the fashion of the day. Neither Connemara
nor Claddagh cloaks were seen in the cars, nor were the blue or grey frieze swallow-tailed
coats of Mayo and Galway seen on the powerful horses pounding along townward through the heavy
road. All was sleek, prosperous, and quite modern, and was as refreshing to look upon after
the frieze and flannel aforesaid as the green hills of Limerick and Clare after the brown mountains
of Joyce's country. I naturally asked the meaning of such an important meeting of well-to-do
folk. It was a funeral. An old lady was to be buried, and the whole country-side for twenty
miles around had turned out to do honour to the deceased, and to enjoy a holiday on the principle
that "a wake is better than a wedding." Not one in a hundred of those who rode by had paid
his rent, nor was he prepared to pay more than Griffith's valuation, although he might have
a deposit note for one, two, or more thousands of pounds in his cash-box.

Pushing along this lively road we entered a famous part of Ireland, the Golden Vale, so called
from its great fertility. Great part of the land here is composed of alluvial bottoms, a large
area of which was drained by the Mullkear Cut, through the exertions of Mr. William Bredin,
of Castlegard, a charming old fortress overgrown with creepers, and standing like a sentry
over the more modern part of the dwelling. As we neared Pallas I was reminded that I was on
classic ground, and that Old and New Pallas and Pallas Green formed the scene of the never-to-be-forgotten
feud of the "Three and Four Year Olds," the tradition whereof hath a rich and racy savour.
Readers of the Daily News will hardly need to be reminded that this historic vendetta commenced
with a dispute concerning the age of a bull, one disputant maintaining that the animal was
four, while the other insisted he was but three years old. The matter was settled, or was rather
put on the footing of a "mighty pretty quarrel," by a desperate fight, wherein one of the combatants
was either slain or grievously maimed, whereupon his cause was taken up by his family and friends,
and a feud inaugurated which lasted many years, and led to the death of a considerable number
of persons, besides continual "diversion" in the way of faction fights. Pallas is in the midst
of the Golden Vale, a deliciously pastoral country, admirably fitted on such a glorious spring-like
morning as that of yesterday for the sports of shepherds and shepherdesses as Watteau and Lancret
loved to limn. But the first object which catches the eye in Pallas is not a bower of ribbons
and roses, but a stiff-looking police barrack. Close at hand is the railway station, another
unlovely edifice, and lounging about in groups are seventy or eighty of the gloomiest and most
sullen-looking people I have seen in this country. The very little cheerfulness there is in
Connaught is quite absent from Munster, or at least the Tipperary border of county Limerick.
I learn that the occasion of this general loafing is a "rent-gathering," or rather an attempt
to gather rent, and that Mr. Sanders, the agent for the Erasmus Smith School Trusts, is sitting,
but not in receipt of custom. There has been the usual talk of Griffith's valuation and the
usual result of not a shilling being paid; the present fear on the part of landlords of fixity
of tenure being established being so great that nobody will accept payment according to Griffith
lest his receipt should be taken as permanently settling the value of his land for ever. No
money passes, as a matter of course, and the tenants mutter among themselves, "nor ever will."
One neck-or-nothing friend of the people assures me that Griffith and rent and the rest of
it is all "botheration," and that Pallas folk are going to "have their own" again, as was once
said of a Stuart king, who did not get it nevertheless. I am not assuming that the opinion
of a farmer anxious to get rid of his principal debt is that of all Munster; I merely give
his observation for what it is worth, and as a sign that the hope of concession is gradually
enlarging demand.

Driving in the direction of Castlegard, I pass the signs of an eviction which took place at
least a fortnight ago. The outgone tenant's bedsteads and wash-hand-stands are piled up against
the wall as if crying to Heaven for vengeance against the oppressor. The display strikes me
as entirely theatrical, for it is well known that vengeance is not left to Heaven by Pallas
people, but confided to Snider bullets. The bailiff's left in charge of the house have been
attacked, and yesterday an iron hut for lodging four policemen on the disputed property was
brought to Pallas station. It went no further, however, for neither horse nor cart could be
got to convey any fragment of the accursed fabric to the spot required. It is expected that
the district will, after this display of "tyranny" on the part of the police, "strike" against
them and refuse to supply them with food or forage. Pursuing the road past Castlegard I meet
another crowd of tenants and learn that they also have been to a rent gathering, and have been
offered acceptance of Griffith's valuation if the balance between that and the rent be considered
as a "reduction" without prejudice to further arrangements, and without fixing a standard of
value. This proposition remains under consideration, and is favourably viewed by the tenants.
It seems, however, that everybody is afraid, or pretends to be afraid, to act without the sanction
of the Land League. I am vastly inclined to think that in many parts of the country farmers
pretend to be more scared than they really are, but around Castlegard they have evidently some
cause for alarm. I called upon a farmer who has committed the unpardonable crime of failing
to be, as Ouidà would say, "true to his order." He has been so lost to all the sentiments of
manhood and of patriotism as to pay his rent. No sooner was it known that he was guilty of
this dastardly deed than he was spoken of as a marked man, and three nights ago a Snider bullet
was fired through his front door into the hall of his newly-built house. I saw the hole made
by the bullet through the door, and also the mark where it tore out a piece of the balusters
before striking the ceiling.

The farmer in question is one of those extraordinary persons who only exist in Ireland. He
is a sturdy, pleasant-looking man of forty, and has made his way despite what would appear
intolerable difficulties. He has farmed for some considerable time about thirty-three acres
of good land, and must have worked hard, for during that time he has had a large family to
maintain. His father died but a short time since, and reduced the number by one, but he now
supports his mother and his aged aunt and uncle, as well as his wife and himself and six children.
With all these mouths to feed he has built him, well and solidly, a thoroughly good house,
with extensive outbuildings and other improvements, obviously worth many hundreds of pounds.
It might be thought the people of Pallas and Castlegard would have been proud of him; but he
has paid his rent, and is marked for "taboo," if for nothing worse.

Trudging across some fine pastures, and jumping sundry ditches, we regain the main road and
our car, and proceed on that instrument of torture back to Pallas. Here we find the "threes"
and the "fours," not at issue with each other, but united like brothers against the common
enemy. Fearful howls arise from the railway bridge and the railway station, both covered with
Palladians, male and female. A thoroughly good Irish yell of execration acts differently on
different persons. The blood of those unaccustomed to it is apt to turn cold at the savage
sound; but, with a little practice, "the ear becomes more Irish and less nice," and a good
howl acts as a stimulant on the spirits of many landlords and agents. All the screeching at
Pallas is brought about by the departure of Mr. Sanders, who, escorted by the police till he
is safely off, rentless, but undismayed, slips away in the train, leaving the "Threes" and
"Fours" to talk the matter over, not unaided by the presence, in the spirit, of all-powerful
"John Jamieson."

TIPPERARY, Tuesday Night.

Another proof has been given that it takes more people to do less in Ireland than in any other
country in the world. The attitude of the combined "Three and Four Year Olds" was yesterday
so threatening that the authorities decided that the police-hut at Pallas could only be erected
in the teeth of the Palladians by dint of an overwhelming display of force. There is no doubt
of the wisdom of this policy. A small force, insufficient to overawe the country side, only
provokes the resistance it is unable to overcome, but a strong detachment of redcoats thoroughly
cows the adventurous spirits of the most mutinous localities. What threatened at one moment
to become a civil war in Mayo was put down without the loss of a drop of blood by an imposing
military force, and the lesson so well illustrated at Ballinrobe is hardly likely to be lost
in other rebellious districts. Yesterday, the affair at Pallas came to such a pitch that extraordinary
measures were resolved upon. A bailiff had been shot because he, in the execution of his duty,
occupied the dwelling of an evicted farmer, one Burke; hence it was decided that a police-hut
should be built on the ground lately occupied by Burke, but, as readers of the Daily News are
aware, the Palladians actually struck against the police, and proceeded to "Boycott" those
"myrmidons" after the most approved manner. Not only did Pallas refuse to aid in conveying
the materials for a police-hut to a short distance from the railway station, but prevented
the police from doing their work themselves. Yesterday, the whole border-folk of county Limerick
and county Tipperary turned up at Pallas, and the conduct of the crowd was such as to lead
persons by no means of an alarmist character to expect an ugly morrow. The authorities had
determined that a police-hut should be erected on the spot chosen, and the populace had equally
made up their minds that although "the makings" of a hut had been brought to Pallas railway
station, they should remain there, and never be allowed to defile the land of Burke's farm.
The police, despite their barrack, which looks strong enough to bear a siege, were obviously
unable to quell the people, and it would hardly have been politic to let the latter enjoy a
victory; consequently it was determined to employ the military to convoy the police-hut, or
rather its disjecta membra, from the railway to its proposed site.

It was pitch dark at five o'clock this morning, the hour for parade at the fine new barracks
at Tipperary. The air, too, was keen, and the detachment of the gallant 48th Regiment ordered
for service at Pallas paraded in no very affectionate spirit towards the Palladians. The ill-humour
of the 48th is easily accounted for. After twelve years' service abroad no regiment would be
cheered by the announcement that instead of Portsmouth its destination was Queenstown, en route
for Tipperary. Such, however, has been the fate of the unlucky 48th, from whom the mob of Pallas,
or any other centre of mutiny, could expect but little mercy. Tempers, however, brightened
at sunrise, and by the time the hundred men under the command of Captain Cartwright and Lieutenants
Fraser and Maycock arrived at the Tipperary station every one was in a good-humoured, contemptuous
frame of mind. Everybody knew that there was no chance of a row, and that the very presence
of all the Queen's horses and all the Queen's men would make it certain that a blank would
be drawn. The whole military plan of campaign had been well imagined. While the 48th came on
from Tipperary the 9th came on also by rail from Limerick, together with a half battery of
the Royal Artillery. It must not, however, be supposed that cannon was deemed necessary to
quell the ardent spirits of Pallas. The guns were left at Limerick, and only the waggons brought
as a means of conveyance for the makings of the hut. But the Limerick contingent was imposing
nevertheless. It consisted of 105 men of the 9th Regiment, of a squadron of Hussars, who went
by road, and of the artillery before-mentioned, who came, like the infantry, by rail. So well
was the movement timed by Colonel Humphreys, R.A., in command, that the trains from Tipperary
and Limerick met almost exactly at New Pallas station a little before nine o'clock this morning,
just as the busbies of the Hussars appeared upon the bridge. Pallas was evidently taken by
surprise, for any movement on a western Irish town before nine in the morning may be taken
as a night attack. The people of the border of county Limerick and county Tipperary are quite
ready to "muster in their thousands" at a convenient hour, but they are sure to be taken at
a disadvantage before nine o'clock. The Palladians rubbed their eyes to find the classic battle-ground
of the "Three Year Olds" and "Four Year Olds" occupied by the matutinal redcoats, and horse,
foot, and artillery already in possession. As Pallas woke up about a hundred and fifty or a
couple of hundred roughs made up "the name of a crowd," but those in command were informed
that this poor show of resistance was really a feint, and that no sooner would the materials
for the hateful hut be put in motion than a rush would be made by the people collected "in
thousands" behind the village, either upon the railway station or upon the convoy in motion.
I had no opportunity of getting round behind the village to review the supposed thousands who
were to make the ugly rush and overwhelm the redcoats, but I have a strong impression that
the Palladian army might have been dubbed the "Mrs. Harris" brigade. With the respected Mrs.
Prigg, I disbelieve in its existence absolutely. Two arguments will destroy it. On the one
hand, it is incredible that thousands of persons were out of their beds at ten minutes to nine
A.M.; on the other, if they had sat up all night in the hope of a fight with the police they
would most certainly have anticipated that diversion by a preliminary "shindy" among themselves,
and have broken up in disorder.

But when horse, foot, artillery, and police converge on a disaffected spot, it is hardly the
province of their commander to disbelieve in the existence of an enemy. Colonel Humphreys accordingly
made the wisest use of his forces. He had at his disposal 200 infantry, a squadron of cavalry,
a demi-battery of artillery, and 70 armed constables--in all about 350 men. His first care
was to secure his base, the railway station, and this point d'appui was strongly garrisoned
by the 48th Regiment. Then the road between the station and Burke's farm was strongly patrolled--so
strongly as to keep up an unbroken line of communication between the farm and the railroad.
When this was established, the procession, bearing the materials of the hut, set forth. First
went the armed police, then an escort of Hussars, and then the Artillery waggons, carrying
the pieces of the hut, guarded by the soldiers of the 9th Regiment. It is hardly necessary
to add that no attempt at rushing or crowding the station was made by the populace. Father
Ryan, the parish priest, behaved in the most praiseworthy manner, and exhorted the people to
be quiet; but my own impression is that they were already completely cowed by the sudden appearance
of the military from two quarters at once. By no means wanting in keenness of perception, they
knew that, if ordered to do so, the soldiers will fire "at" them, and not vaguely, after the
manner of the police. So the whole affair passed off quietly, and after trebling the ordinary
police garrison of Pallas, the military returned to their respective quarters. A beginning
has been made of building the hut, and at the moment of writing (9 P.M.) all is quiet at Old
and New Pallas, as well as at Pallas Green. Whether the blood of the "Threes" and "Fours" will
endure the sight of the detested hut gradually rising on the farm of the sainted Burke remains
to be seen; but it it is doubtful whether the "Boys" will attempt a coup de main. Should such
an attempt be made, the police would be compelled to make a desperate resistance, and serious
consequences would certainly ensue. There is a curious contrast between the state of the "Three
and Four Year Olds" yesterday and to-day--between the bragging of the one and the cowed look
of the other. There is also something of amusement, were not the entire question all too serious,
in the sudden and contemptuous withdrawal of the troops to-day, after having shown the Palladians
that, however they felt about the hut, it should be built, and law and order maintained "maugre
their teeth."

XI.

GOMBEEN.

CORK, December 2nd.

Among the many spectres which haunt the sadly-vexed West and South of Ireland, there is one
far more grim and real than the spectre vert who is either buried for ever and aye, or has
undergone gradual transformation since '98 into Repeal of the Union, Young Ireland, Fenianism,
Nationalism, and finally perhaps into Anti-Landlordism; albeit this latter avatar of an ancient
and familiar spirit is by no means imbued with the poetic attributes of the original spectre.
During my stay in Ennis and Limerick I succeeded in holding somewhat protracted conversations
with three landed proprietors, three of the largest land-agents in Ireland, two bank managers,
an influential lawyer, three leaders of the people, and one probable assassin. Through the
discourse of all of these--varied and contradictory as much of it necessarily was--I could
see distinctly one ugly shadow, as of an old man filthy of aspect, hungry of eye, and greedy
of claw, sitting in the rear of a gloomy store looking over papers by the light of a miserable
tallow dip. From the papers the figure turned to a heap as of bank-notes, and there was in
the air the chink of money. For the name of this grisly and terribly real spectre is gombeen;
which, in the Irish tongue, signifies usury.

To Thackeray's truthful remark that there is never so poor an Irishman that he has not a still
poorer countryman as a hanger-on, it may be added that when an Irishman is not a borrower he
is almost certain to be a lender--the advice of Polonius being abhorrent to the spirit of a
free-and-easy, happy-go-lucky people. When a man in these parts gets or keeps out of debt himself,
he is mostly engaged in encouraging others to get into it. Often he has little or nothing himself,
but acts after the Irish fashion as deputy gombeen man for the pleasure of the thing, and also
for a commission well and duly paid. This determination towards borrowing and lending is not
confined to any particular class, but is characteristic of all. As the peer, who would never
have put his hand into his own pocket to pay for improving his property, suddenly awakes to
the value of drainage when the Government offers a million and a half at one per cent., so
did the gombeen man, who would never have dreamed of lending more than a pound at a time to
a peasant, extend his credit four or five fold when the Land Act of 1870 gave him the first
instalment of proprietary right in the land he occupied. The instalment was a very small one,
but it was at once discounted by the gombeen man, whose rate of interest enabled him to run
extraordinary risks. As the poor pay dearly for everything, so do they pay an extravagant interest
for money. There was once a fashionable West-end usurer, who, pretending to know nothing about
arithmetic, met his clients on the subject of percentage with "I don't understand figures,
but my terms are a shilling per pound every month. It is easy to reckon up without going into
sums on slates." This poor innocent was charging just 60 per cent., but his terms were lavishly
liberal as compared with those of the gombeen man. Instead of a shilling per month the latter
charges a shilling a week for every sovereign advanced, and then "Begorra, it's only the name
of a sovereign," which being interpreted signifies that an advance of one pound, less charges,
only amounts to 18s. 10d., and that upon this sum a shilling interest must be well and duly
paid weekly. Any failure entails a fine, and a failure to pay off the original sovereign borrowed
within six months is very heavily fined indeed. I am told that the gombeen man actually puts
on cent. per cent. for this failure of redemption; but, on my principle of believing only a
percentage of all I hear, and of taking a liberal discount off all I see, I doubt this enormity.
Concerning the shilling interest per week on a pound there is, however, unhappily no room for
doubt, and for small unsecured loans 260 per cent. per annum is still the ruling figure.

This enormous rate of interest, however, is now only exacted on the very smallest loans, for
the old-fashioned gombeen man has lost his customers for larger sums. In old times he was the
only means of obtaining such little sums as five and ten pounds on personal security; but since
1870 the banks have entered into competition with him, have undersold him, and, in fact, "run
him out of the market," except for sums under four or five pounds. The unfortunates who are
short of a sovereign or two must look up their old friend in the back shop smelling of bacon,
tallow, pepper, tea, and whisky, just as their social superiors seek the intrepid sixty per
cent. man of St. James's, whose snuggery is perfumed by the best Havannahs that other people's
money can buy. But when the soul of Mike rises to the sublime conception of a loan of five
pounds he dismisses the old-fashioned usurer, and hies him to one of the branch banks which
abound in every petty townlet in Western and Southern Ireland. When I say "abound" I mean to
be taken literally. What would be thought in England, I wonder, of four banks in a town like
Ennis, or of two in pettifogging places like Kilrush or Ennistynon--mere hamlets of some two
thousand inhabitants? Yet these three places have eight branch banking establishments among
them. It must not, however, be supposed that Mike gets his paltry four or five pounds on his
promissory note without further security. Nothing of the kind. Mike must go through as much
artful financiering to raise his five pounds as the Hon. Algernon Deuceace to raise his "monkey."
His bill must be well backed by his friends, Thady and Tim. Now, Thady's name on the back of
a five-pound bill is not good for much. He is but a peasant, like Mike, not a farmer, properly
so called, and even as two blacks will not make a white, so will the joint credit of Mike and
Thady not rise to the height of five one-pound notes. But they have a potent ally in Tim, who
married Thady's wife's cousin. Tim is a prudent man, has worked hard at his farm, and, as a
rule, has a matter of twenty or thirty pounds on deposit note at the bank, receiving for the
same interest at the rate of one per cent. per annum. His name at the back of a five-pound
bill is therefore a tower of strength, and, in fact, floats the entire speculation. In commercial
phrase, he "stands to be shot at" while his own deposit money, on which he receives one per
cent., supplies the funds for the bank to lend Mike and Thady, at ten or twenty per cent.,
for there is no pretence made of doing very small bills at anything approaching ordinary rates.
In fact, the peasant cultivator, having acquired under the Land Acts now in force a species
of proprietory interest in the soil, has a sort of credit which, backed by a friendly and innocent
depositor, can be made an engine for raising ready money in a small way. This help from the
banks is so far good that it has relieved the decent peasant from his ancient bloodsucker,
the gombeen man. Admitting that with charges and fine for renewal and so forth the loan ultimately
costs Mike fifteen or twenty per cent, he is vastly better off than he was under the old system.
He gets money to buy pigs to fatten for sale, or manure for his bit of arable land, and if
the rate appears high, it is wondrously merciful as compared with that to which he was formerly
accustomed.

But there is an awkward side even to the business which enables the principal Irish banks to
pay large dividends. So long as care is taken that Mike and Thady do not overdo the accommodation
bill system, perhaps no very great harm is done in extending the advantage of moderate credit
to the humblest cultivator; but when competition is sharp in a petty townlet between two rival
banks, the tendency towards a mischievous extension of credit is almost irresistible, and bank
managers are at last driven to look sharply after their clients on market days, lest the ready
money which is their due should be deflected to other purposes. The provision man, who has
supplied bacon and other necessaries, is on the alert to secure something on account; and if,
as is most probable, he has been giving credit somewhat recklessly, he is pinched for money,
despite the high rate of profit he has been charging to cover his risk. For some time past
the game of credit has been going on gaily; but since the commencement of the present agitation
both banks and gombeen men have distinctly narrowed their operations, and the landlord is now
the almost universal creditor. The harvest-money has either gone to pay advances or to settle
accounts with tradesfolk, so that an awkward future is in preparation for all but the prosperous
tenants, of whom there is no lack in counties Clare and Limerick. Whatever the details of the
forthcoming Land Act may be when it has passed the ordeal of both Houses of Parliament, the
work of passing it will take time, and at least another half-year's rent will accrue before
it takes the shape of law. Now, with all the talk of Griffith's valuation, there has been,
except in a few cases, no hint of paying that sum "without prejudice" into court or into any
bank whatsoever; and the cash held by both farmers and peasants runs, in the opinion of many
well qualified to judge, sore risk of diminution before any comprehensive measure can pass
through Parliament. Even the well-to-do farmers will be called upon to expend their balance
in hand in many ways which they will find difficult to resist. Not only the provision merchants,
but the drapers and milliners of Limerick, Ennis, and Galway, will hold out allurements to
those in possession of ready money. To put the case briefly, there is great danger that, without
any intentional dishonesty on their part, the cultivators, great and small, of Western and
South-Western Ireland will hardly be in as good a position for the discharge of their liabilities
six months or a year hence as they are at present. The three "F's" will hardly wipe off existing
debt, and the result of a division of the population into two sharply defined classes of debtors
and creditors is viewed by many thoughtful people with considerable apprehension.

XII.

THE RETAINER.

CORK, December 4th.

In describing the character of the Western and Southern Irishman nothing would be more unfair
than to leave out of the estimate his curious faithfulness to some persons, and the tenderness
with which he cherishes the traditions of the past. In no country in the world is the superstition
concerning the "good old times" more fervently believed in than in Western and Southern Ireland.
And in the opinion of the mass of the people the good old times extended down to a recent date.
One is asked to believe that before the period of the potato famine Ireland was the abode of
plenty if not of peace, and that landlords and tenants blundered on together on the most amicable
terms. It is hardly necessary to state that the golden age of Ireland, like the golden age
of every other country, never had any real existence. It is like the good old-fashioned servant
who from the time of Terence to our own has always lived in the imaginary past, but never in
the real present. The belief in a recent golden age is, however, so prevalent in Ireland that
I have thought it worth while to investigate the grounds on which it is based and the means
by which it has been kept fresh and green.

The first fact which strikes the observer is that since the potato famine the West and South
have been going through a period of transition still in progress. Under the authority of the
Encumbered Estates Court a vast area of land has changed hands, and the new proprietors have
only in rare cases succeeded in securing the affection of their tenants and neighbours, who
sit "crooning" over the fire, extolling the virtues of the "ould masther" and comparing him
with the new one, very much to the disadvantage of the latter. It is not remarkable that such
comparisons should be instituted. The people have very little to do, and do that in a slovenly,
slip-shod way, and they have therefore plenty of leisure for gossip. As they are ignorant of
everything beyond their own county, it is only natural that the new proprietor or lessee should
be discussed at great length, and all his acts and deeds be fully commented upon. And it is
not remarkable that the judgment should be adverse to the new man. He is generally North Irish,
Scotch, or English. The two former are hated at once, at a venture; but the "domineering Saxon"
is given a chance, and with a little tact and good temper can secure, if not affection, at
least toleration.

But it is not easy to get the good word of the people, even when one is neither a "tyrant"
oneself nor the lessee of an "exterminator"; for the ways of the most just and generous of
the new men do not suit those of the natives like the system, or rather want of system, of
the old chiefs. Even when a demesne only is leased by a "foreigner," and all risk of quarrelling
with tenants is thus avoided, it is hard work to achieve popularity. As I drove up the avenue
of a dwelling thus inhabited, I asked the driver what he and the country-side thought of the
new tenant of the old house. "A good man, your honour," was the cold answer; followed by an
enthusiastic, "Och, but it was the ould masther that was the good man! Sorra the bite or sup
any one wanted while he was to the fore!" Now, the "ould masther" was, I understand, a worthy
gentleman, of good old county family, who lived in the midst of his tenantry for several months
every year, and "kept up his old mansion at a bountiful old rate," like a fine old "Celticised
Norman," as he was. Like the descendants of the early settlers described by Mr. Froude, he
and his had retained their popularity by concessions to Celtic habits, not in religion or personal
conduct be it understood, but in letting things go on easily, in a happy-go-lucky way, without
any superstitions concerning the profuse employment of soap and water by their dependents.
Probably no lady of the house had for many generations entered the kitchen, which apparently
served as a focus for the country folk. The stone floor was a stranger to hearthstone and to
water, except such as might be spilt upon it; and was either slippery or sticky here and there,
according to the nature of the most recent deposits. The table and dressers were in such a
condition when taken over by the "domineering Saxon" that washing was abandoned as hopeless,
and scraping and planing were perforce resorted to. But overhead, firmly fixed in the beams
of the ceiling, hung many a goodly flitch of bacon, many a plump, well-fed ham. Under the shadow
of this appetising display might be found at any time during the day about a score of persons
who had no business there whatever, but found it "mighty convanient" to look in about meal
times for the bite and sup my car-driver so regretfully alluded to, and to sit round the fire
smoking a pipe and talking for hours afterwards.

It was in the larder attached to this fine old kitchen that I met a glorious specimen of the
fine Old Irish Retainer, faithful to the memory of the "ould masther," who had left him an
annuity of eight shillings per week, and not unmindful of the virtues of the new one, who keeps
him on the establishment as an interesting "survival," and lodges, feeds, and clothes him,
in order that he may not be obliged to divert any portion of his income from its natural course
towards Mary Molony's shebeen, to the purchase of the prosaic necessaries of life. The Retainer,
who was enjoying the occupation of turning some hams and bacon in salt, and inspecting the
condition of some pigs' heads in highly spiced pickle, was a singularly good-looking man, with,
well--I will not say "clean"--cut features and a generally healthy look, speaking wonders for
the vigour of constitution which had successfully withstood sixty odd winters and an incalculable
quantity of the poisonous new whisky of the country. He was interested in the subject of obtaining
sundry rounds of salt beef for Christmastide, holding that roast beef is but a vain thing,
good enough for Saxons, no doubt, but not to be compared with corned beef or bacon and cabbage.
The Retainer spoke kindly of his new master, but at the mention of the old one at once kindled
to fever heat. "Thim was times, your honour. Niver a week but we killed two sheep, or a month
that we didn't kill a baste. And pigs, your honour. If we didn't kill a pig every day, as your
honour says, we killed a matther of four score every sayson. And there was lashings and lavings
of mate for every one. And the ould masther said, says he, 'As long as it's there,' says he,
'all are welcome to a bite and a sup at my house. As long as it's there,' says he. And he was
the good man, your honour."

This was it. The present tenant's Celticised predecessor, whose glory still fills the land,
lived the life of an African chief. When ox, sheep, or pig was slain, the choice morsels of
the animal were perhaps reserved for the chieftain's table, and the remainder of the carcase
was distributed among the tribe assembled in that part of the kraal called the kitchen. Odds
and ends of food were always on hand; and if there was not much to eat at home there was always
something to be had at the chieftain's tent. Outside of the kitchen door was the stable yard,
knee deep in the accumulated filth of years, and the garden was a wilderness. "But, your honour,"
said the Retainer, "it was the foine gentleman he was, and it tuk three waggons to carry away
the empty champagne bottles when the new masther came, and long life to him and to your honour;
and I wish your honour safe home and welcome back."

Thus far the Retainer, who is fairly well cared for, and ought to be satisfied whether he is
or not; but it is otherwise with the surrounding public. As the old order changes and gives
place to the new, the poorer tenants have seen one privilege depart from them after the other.
To the new occupant, however much inclined he may be to deal liberally, nay, generously with
the country folk, it appears preposterous that a score or more of loafers should assist his
servants in "eating up his mutton." The new comer is prepared to deal handsomely with the people,
who with all their faults have endearing qualities almost impossible to resist; but the fact
is that he does not understand the situation till it is too late. A good Scotch or English
housewife going into her kitchen and finding it so inexpressibly dirty that her feet are literally
rooted to the ground, is apt to express a very decided opinion, despite the presence of a dozen
or more of gossips smoking their pipes round the fire; but her remarks are hardly likely to
be taken in good part, and she is classed as a "domineering" person forthwith. And a general
misunderstanding can only be averted by timely concessions and the prompt dismissal of English
servants who neither can nor will live with their Irish peers. And yet it cannot be fairly
said that anybody is to blame. The "foreigner" cannot endure to be kept in bed till late in
the morning, and hence easily acquires the reputation of a "tyrant." And the small tenants
feel the loss of the African system, under which they never actually went short of a meal.
As the right of mountain pasture and of cutting turf have vanished on some estates, so has
the privilege of living at free quarters disappeared on others, to be replaced by no compensating
advantage. This is one of the features of a period of transition during which, without ill-will
on either side, the gulf between rich and poor is becoming perceptibly wider.

Inasmuch as I am just now contradicted by peers in the columns of the Daily News itself, and
attacked--I must add, in very courteous as well as brilliant style--by a leader writer of the
Irish Times, and held up to public opprobrium at Sunday meetings, I thought it well to submit
the foregoing to a friend, born and bred in Ireland, before committing it to print. Where,
except so far as the retainer is concerned, I was obliged to depend so much on hearsay evidence,
I thought it just possible that I might have selected an extreme case instead of a fair type
of what I have ventured to call the African system. I am quite reassured. My friend, who is
an accomplished and experienced Irishman, tainted only by a very few years' residence in England,
assures me that I have considerably understated the wild, wasteful profusion, slothfulness,
and dirt of the old-fashioned chieftain's kitchen. He assures me that families are now abroad
in the world without an acre of land or a halfpenny beyond their earnings, who, within his
recollection, have been "ruined by their kitchen,"--literally eaten up by hungry retainers
and tenants. He mentioned one family in particular, whose income sank from 12,000l. to nothing
a year under the ancient system which united almost every possible defect. The tenants were
not, it is true, charged a heavy rent in money, because civilisation had not advanced quite
so far as the commutation of all dues into cash; but "duty work" was as strictly exacted on
the lord's farm as it is now on some estates when coal is to be drawn, and "duty" tribute in
kind was levied as well. Thus the tenant was obliged not only to cultivate the "ould masther's"
land, but to give him at Christmas tide a "duty" pig and "duty" geese and fowls according to
a fixed percentage. My friend, whose position places his assertion above all doubt, assures
me that in old leases it is quite common to find a sum of money specified as the equivalent
of a "duty" hog; and other tribute of similar kind. The "ould masther," whose bailiffs looked
sharply after "duty" of all descriptions, himself dispensed the indiscriminate hospitality
already described, and "masther" and man floundered in the slough of debt and poverty together,
making light of occasional hardship. All this feudal fellowship has gone with the old chieftains,
whom the people profess to admire, and compare regretfully with the new men who expect to pay
and be paid. But I am reminded that I have omitted to mention an important factor in the older
polity of Ireland. The opposite ends of the social chain were brought together by that time-honoured
ensign and instrument of authority, one end of which was in the master's hand and the other
in the man's ribs or across his shoulders. It was "the shtick" which kept things together so
far as they were kept so at all. The descendants of the masters say little or nothing about
the good old custom of their forefathers in "laying about them with their rattan;" but the
Retainer has not forgotten the ungentle practice which stimulated him to exertion in his youth.
To hear the Retainer one would believe that the great smoother of difficulties, stimulant to
exertion, and pacificator of quarrels was the "shtick." The idea of one of the tribe "processing"
his chief for assault was never dreamt of in the good old times; for the recalcitrant one would
have been "hunted out" of the county by the indignant population. To the Retainer the old time
has hardly passed away, for it is not long since he actually recommended a "domineering Saxon"
on the occasion of a domestic disturbance to "take the shtick to 'um, your honour. Sure the
ould masther always did. And when he had murthered 'um they was as saft as silk." It is curious
that the wand of the enchanter during the Golden Age of "Ould Ireland" should prove to have
been the all-persuasive, all-powerful "shtick."

XIII.

CROPPED.

GORTATLEA, CO. KERRY, Monday, Dec. 6th.

Having heard agrarian outrages reported one day and denied or explained away the next, I thought
it worth while to ascertain the exact truth concerning the case of Laurence Griffin, of Kilfalliny,
co. Kerry. It had been reported at Cork that Griffin had been taken out of his bed in his own
house, that his ears had been slit, and that he had been otherwise maltreated by a band of
ruffians, on the night of Monday last. Then it was roundly asserted that he had never been
attacked at all, and that he was a malingerer who had slit his own ears, or persuaded his wife
to slit them for him, with an eye to the excitement of sympathy and charity; that winter was
coming on; and that, after all, the ear is not a very sensitive part of the human form. To
ascertain the exact truth there seemed to be only one method--to see for oneself. Having seen
the man, and assisted at the application of a fresh dressing to his wounded ear, not ears,
I must confess myself incapable of entertaining any doubt as to his veracity. His mutilated
ear is not slit, nor is he "ear-marked" like a beast, by a notch being cut in that organ. The
upper and exterior convolution of his left ear is cut clean off, so that its outline, instead
off being rounded at the top, is straight. The wound is of course still fresh and sore, but
is already showing signs of healing. The poor man has evidently been not only barbarously mutilated,
but nearly frightened to death. With his pale face and half-grown beard, and his head bound
up, he is a pitiable object. Obviously he was nearly as much afraid of me as of his midnight
assailants, and was far too much bewildered by the harsh tone of "the Saxon" to tell a smooth
and coherent story. Bit by bit, amid many interruptions, he told his pitiful narrative, only
one part of which I consider doubtful. He denied that, either by their clothes or any other
sign, he could identify any one of the men who attacked him. I am obliged to believe that,
despite their blackened faces, he could have done so, were he not in fear of his life. The
hand of his enemies is still heavy upon him, for his wife cannot get milk from the neighbours
for her children. They are either afraid, or say that they are, to give or sell to Laurence
Griffin, his wife, or his children. He is thrown out of employment, and may, so far as the
anti-landlord party are concerned, starve. The causes which led to the outrage on this poor
man afford such a curious picture of the present state of county Kerry as to be worth narrating.

A man named Sullivan occupied a farm at Kilfalliny, on the little river Main, a spot almost
equidistant from each of the three railway stations of Farranfore, Gortatlea, and Castleisland.
When Sullivan died several years ago, the farm, for which he paid about 190l. a year rent,
was divided between his three sons, the man who obtained the middle or best section being "set"
to pay 5l. more than either of the others, as having the best farm. The brothers on the outside
sections have prospered. One has saved some hundreds of pounds; the other has given good, substantial
portions to his three daughters. No objection was made to the manner in which the land was
subdivided by the agent, Mr. Hussey, of the firm of Hussey and Townsend, of Cork, Tralee, and
other places. The Sullivan who inherited the "good will," as it is called here, of the "Benjamin's
mess" has not succeeded in life so well as his brothers. At the October sessions of 1878 an
ejectment order was obtained against him for one and a half year's rent, equal to 100l. 10s.
In January, 1879, possession was taken, and the farmer formally ejected, but immediately reinstated
as "caretaker," a convenient practice, when it is borne in mind that in Ireland an ejected
tenant has six months allowed him for "redemption," during which the landlord can only let
the farm subject to the risk of the late tenant paying up his rent, less whatever has been
taken off the farm in the meanwhile. Sullivan then was re-established in his farm as "caretaker,"
and there he remained with the consent of the agent until last spring, when he was summoned
to depart. To this request he has declined to pay the slightest attention. When he is summoned
for trespass and sent to gaol the Land Leaguers pay his fine and restore him to his family,
who still keep houses on the farm as before. As the case at present stands he is indebted to
his landlord (deduction being made for sums received for grazing and for about 100l. worth
of hay still stacked on the farm) in the sum of 100l. The agent, anxious to settle the matter,
persuaded the landlord to offer him a receipt for this, and a bonus of 100l. in cash, if he
would go away, but this he, or the Land League for him, declines to do.

It was obviously necessary at the end of the hay harvest to appoint a caretaker to see that
the crop was not "lifted," after the manner of that of the irreconcilable Tom Browne, of Cloontakilla,
county Mayo. Hence, Laurence Griffin, a labouring man, with an acre patch of land to his house,
was given the job of looking after the hay, and occasionally summoning Sullivan for trespass.
It must be understood that Sullivan's family have never been disturbed, and that Griffin lives,
not like a man in possession of their holding, but in his own little house hard by with his
own family. The supervision exercised was, therefore, of the mildest character, but the summoning
for trespass was accounted a dire offence by the popular leaders. Hence Griffin was first "noticed"
to give up the occupation assigned to him by his employer, Mr. Hussey, who had given him his
house and potato patch. The poor fellow was sadly exercised in his mind, but he kept on with
his duty until a second notice was affixed to his door. Then he lost heart, and a fortnight
ago gave up his dangerous occupation.

On the Saturday following, however, he happened to go into Tralee, and the exponents of the
popular will made up their minds that he had not given up his employment as he was "noticed"
to do, that he was still persevering in the nefarious career of a caretaker, and that he had
actually dared to go in the light of day to Tralee to receive the wage of his iniquity. If
not actually guilty of this enormity, he had at least a guilty look, and it was determined
to punish him, and make him a warning to other evildoers.

According to the man's account, given in a disjointed manner under severe cross-questioning,
he had gone to bed on Monday last, when somebody tapped at his door and called to him to open.
Thinking the visit was from the police, who occasionally looked in upon him, he got up, and
huddling on some clothes as he went, made for the door. As he was on the point of opening it,
a voice called out to him to "make haste," for the speaker was "starved with the cold;" then
he knew the voice was not that of the policeman, and he would fain have closed the just opening
door, but a gun was thrust through the opening, the door was pushed open, and a dozen men with
blackened faces and armed to the teeth burst into the room.

The ringleader then proceeded to go through some form akin to a trial, and asked his companions
what should be done with Laurence Griffin, who had disregarded the notices served on him, and
persevered in his villanous calling. It was suggested that death alone would meet the case.
"Shoot 'um, says they," said Griffin to me. At this his wife sprang out of bed shrieking, and
his children collected round him. Almost out of his wits with terror, the poor fellow declared
that he had obeyed the notice, that he had relinquished his office, and that he was out of
work, and full of trouble in consequence.

After some little consultation the chiefs of the Blackfaces consented to swear Griffin as to
the truth of his statement, and while guns were held to his breast and to each side of his
head, he swore solemnly that he had obeyed the notice, that he was no longer watching Sullivan's
farm, and that he would never offend in such wise again.

When an end was made of swearing him, poor Griffin, more dead than alive, was marched out alone
between his guards into the road, where he found himself among a score more of men, all with
blackened faces. Then, so far as I could understand Griffin, the leader of the men outside
displayed some dissatisfaction at the way in which things had passed off, and expressed his
determination that the unhappy caretaker should not go scot free.

"What did we come out for to-night?" growled the chief; "did we come out for nothing?" Muffled
groans followed this appeal, and encouraged the spokesman to add, "Shall we go back as we came,
boys?" the answer to which was a decided negative. Then the unlucky man, Griffin, saw something
glitter in the chief's hand, and while he was kept steady by gun barrels pressing against each
side of his head, he felt a sharp pain in his left ear, and the blood running down his neck.

As to what followed he was very incoherent; but it seems that the Blackfaces departed, leaving
him with his wife and children nearly frightened to death, and with the top of his ear cut
clean off.

I may add, as an indication of the state of Kerry, that a gentleman invited to meet me last
night postponed the meeting till daylight, on the ground that night air is not good for landlords.
Not a single person directly or indirectly connected with land ventures out unarmed even in
broad daylight. It is needless to say that no money would hire a man to watch Sullivan's farm.

XIV.

IN KERRY.

TRALEE, CO. KERRY, Wednesday, December 8th.

The character of the principal estates in counties Cork and Kerry appears to be like that of
their bacon and beef--streaky. There are to be seen some admirable specimens of skilful and
liberal management, as well as instances of almost insane blundering on the part of both landlord
and tenant. From Blarney to the Blaskets the distance is not that of a couple of counties,
but the gap between Kylemore and Rinvyle between civilization and savagery. It would be thought
that worse degradation than that on Innisturk and Innisbofin would be difficult to find; but
in poverty, misery, and lawlessness the population of those inclement isles is far outdone
by the five-and-twenty families now in the position of squatters on the Great Blasket. This
is an island some three miles and three-quarters long, lying off the peninsula of Corkaguiny
beyond Dunmore Head, on the northern side of Dingle Bay, as Bray Head and the island of Valentia
lie on its southern side. Of old the Greater Blasket, which has some good pasturage upon it,
was let to a few tenants who made a sort of living on this wild spot. They fed their sheep,
they grew potatoes, caught great store of porpoises, which they converted into bacon, and thus
kept body and soul together in a rough way. But whatever of rude plenty once existed on Great
Blasket has vanished before its increasing population. The island is now asked to maintain
some hundred and forty persons, and refuses to respond to the demand.

The tenants can hardly complain of much interference of late years, either from Lord Cork,
the head landlord, or from Mr. Hussey, who till just recently leased the island from him; for
they have paid no rent for four or five, nor county cess for seven, years. They have never
paid any poor-rate, and yet hunger after "relief meal." They are simply attempting the impossible--to
live on a place which might perhaps support a score of people, but will not support six times
that number.

Blarney, for other reasons than its groves and "the stone there, that whoever kisses he never
misses to grow eloquent," is one of the most interesting places in the south of Ireland. It
is not only the centre of a rich agricultural country and the abode of an improving landlord,
Sir George St. John Colthurst, of Ardrum, but the seat of an important manufacture of woollens,
a rare and curious industry in Munster. The Blarney mills make a great "turn over" of tweed,
and employ five hundred and fifty men, women, and girls. I had an excellent opportunity of
seeing the factory hands, for I went to Blarney on pay-day, and was greatly struck by the difference
between their appearance and that of the people engaged in agriculture alone. The number and
appearance of the women employed is a good answer to those pessimists who maintain that the
curse of the poorer Irish is the filthiness, laziness, and general slatternliness of the women.
In dress and general bearing the girls of Blarney would compare favourably with those of many
English manufacturing towns; and, inasmuch as Blarney Mills are successful, their work must
be well done. One reason of course of the comfortable look of the Blarney folk is that all
the family work. Perhaps the husband works at agriculture, and the wife and daughter at the
mill. All work, and hence a good income, as at Blackburn and other cotton towns, instead of
the starvation which attends a useless woman who, with her string of helpless children, hangs
like a millstone round her husband's neck. There are no "useless mouths" at Blarney, where
everybody helps to maintain the family roof-tree, and to prove that the Irish of the south,
like those of Connemara, are susceptible of being taught, if only pains be taken with them.
It must be admitted that Blarney Mills are in the second generation, having been founded by
Mr. Mahony, the father of the late "Father Prout" and of the present proprietor. The houses
of the workpeople at Blarney are neat and trim, white and clean, and a repose to the eyes of
beholders, sick of slouching thatch and bulging mud walls.

Perhaps, however, the spot of all others in which the sharpest contrast occurs between the
old life of Ireland and that brought about by "improving" landlords and tenants is the hamlet
of Millstreet, situate on the line of railway between this place and Mallow, once a kind of
Irish Tunbridge Wells, and famous for the "Rakes of Mallow," whose virtues are immortalised
in verse. When Mallow was the farthest south-western outpost of civilization it is possible
that the "rakes" who converged upon that pretty spot from the surrounding country "ranted,"
"roared," and "drank" to the extent that the poet has credited them withal. But they are gone
now, these rakes, and Mallow appears to get on very well without them.

It is remarkable for its pretty villas, and for a comfortable hotel, kept by a self-made man,
who has risen from the ranks into prosperity by sheer industry and foresight. Millstreet is
a very different kind of place from Mallow. The latter has the beautiful Blackwater river to
give it beauty; but Millstreet is chiefly remarkable as the locale of the mill which gives
it a name; as the habitation of the Rev. Canon Griffin, a Roman Catholic of high culture, who,
unlike some of the priesthood, abjures the Land League and all its works; and as the spot on
which "Ould Ireland" and New Ireland meet face to face.

The hamlet is mainly divided between two proprietors. That part known as the McCarthy O'Leary
property is mainly composed of filthy hovels of the worst Irish type--is, in fact, rather a
gigantic piggery than a dwelling-place for human beings. The houses are not so small as the
mountain cabins of Mayo or the seaside dens of Connemara, but they are small enough, crowded
with inhabitants, and filthy beyond the belief of those who know not the western half of Ireland.
It is hardly possible, nor would it be worth while, to inquire into the causes which have made
one half of Millstreet an opprobrium and the other half a model hamlet. I simply record what
I see--filth and swinishness on the left hand, order, neatness, and cleanliness on the right.

The white houses, the trim streets of the townlet, are on the Wallace property, which is at
present, and will be for some little time to come, in the hands of the Court of Chancery. Skilfully
administered for several years past, the Wallace property is very well known in these parts
for the success with which its management has been attended. One of the principal tenants of
this thriving estate is Mr. Jeremiah Hegarty, whose peculiar position towards his landlords
affords a curious instance of the working of the present land laws of Ireland. To begin with
Mr. Hegarty holds about eight hundred acres as a tenant farmer, without a lease or any guarantee
against his being turned off by his landlords at any time, except the natural goodwill and
joint interest of landlord and tenant. He has of course the Act of 1870 in his favour, but
inasmuch as his "improvements" have extended over a long term of years, it is almost certain
that if a series of deaths should bring the property into needy or unscrupulous hands Mr. Hegarty
might be removed from his farm, or rather farms, at great loss to himself, despite the compensation
that would be awarded him, and on which the landlord would assuredly make a great profit. It
may be thought hardly likely that any landlord would be mad enough to disestablish a tenant
of eight hundred acres of land who pays his rent with commendable punctuality; but as such
things, and things even more foolish, have been done during the present year, it is not agreeable
to think of the risks run by an improving tenant in county Cork, and an improving tenant Mr.
Hegarty assuredly is.

It is a curious illustration of that difference between English and Irish farming which makes
the agrarian question so difficult for Englishmen to understand, that Mr. Hegarty, who may
be accepted as a type of the Irish farmer, possessed by advanced ideas, conducts his operations
successfully and profitably by almost exactly reversing the proportions of tillage and pasture
existing on Mr. Clare Read's famous farm at Honingham Thorpe. On the particular farm of Mr.
Read's here referred to, the quantity of pasture is about one eighth or ninth of the whole.
On Mr. Hegarty's farms, for he has more than one to make up his total of eight hundred acres,
there is exactly one-ninth under tillage to eight-ninths of pasture.

This will not at first strike the English eye as any great thing in the way of reclamation;
but it must be recollected that in this part of Ireland it is no small matter to obtain good
pasture. One of the first sights the eye becomes accustomed to is the long bent or sedge, shooting
rankly up among the sweeter grass, and telling surely of land overcharged with water. There
is no escape from the fact that Ireland as a country is cursed with defective natural drainage.
The fall of the greater rivers is so slight that they meander hither and thither in "S's,"
as they say here, and only require a little surplus on the average rainfall to overflow the
more valuable land. And it is astonishing how quickly good land left untilled reverts to its
primeval condition, or, in the expressive language of the country, "goes back to bog." This
has been shown in many cases.

There is, for instance, a not small portion of Lord Inchiquin's and Lord Kenmare's land, which
has been allowed by the tenants to gradually go back to sedge, if not to bog, for the want
of keeping drains clear and putting on lime. A curious instance of the effect of not liming
the land is supplied on one of the fields newly reclaimed by Mr. Hegarty. Owing either to the
supply of lime running short, for the moment, or to the carelessness of his men, a patch of
recently drained land was left without lime which was liberally bestowed on the rest of the
field. The forgotten patch can be seen from afar by the tufts of sedge sprouting from it.

Mr. Hegarty's eight hundred acres are, saving one or two little lots, divided between the Millstreet
farm and the mountain farm of Lackadota, for the goodwill whereof the incoming paid the outgoing
tenants 560l. before he began the work of thorough reclamation. His success on this hill-side
has been remarkable. This season he has taken out potatoes from eight acres at the rate of
20l. per acre, and the triumph of his method has been equally great in other crops--to wit,
oats, mangolds, and turnips.

It is needless to remind agricultural readers that the artificial feeding of cattle is still
in its infancy in the west and south-west of Ireland. The various kinds of cake--oil, cotton,
and nut--and cattle "spices," made up of fenugreek seed and other condiments, are, if not unknown,
quite unused by all but a few gentlemen farmers, of whom I shall in another letter have more
to say. The old-fashioned notion was to rear cattle, turn them loose on the mountain, and sell
them to be finished in the Meaths or elsewhere. On the Millstreet farm, however, root-crops
are largely used for feeding, and the beasts are kept more under cover than is common here.
All this means, of course, large outlay, and the farmer has expended not less than six thousand
pounds in building, and in draining and liming four hundred acres of the eight hundred he occupies.
He was, like Canon Griffin, one of the first to recognise the necessity for changing the potato
seed, and imported "champions" before other people thought of it, and while they were growing
potatoes not much bigger than marbles, and hardly fit to feed pigs upon, he was getting crops
of fine tubers. In draining the portion of his farm near the river, he has found himself obliged
to employ stone drains, the attempts previously made with tile drains having failed signally;
and it may be added that his attempts, now shown to be successful, to drain the flat land near
the river Oughbane were derided by neighbouring agriculturists, who could not see that if the
land do not slope sufficiently towards the natural drainage the artificial drains may be made
to do so. His farm-buildings, machinery for threshing, &c., are an agreeable sight. In building,
concrete has been largely used, especially in the cow-houses and feeding stalls, and the general
effect of this large farm in county Cork is that of a well-managed business, every detail of
which is familiar to its head.

It can hardly be thought extraordinary that farmers like Mr. Hegarty, even on a smaller scale,
are anxious for a good, sound Land Bill. They, with all good feeling toward their present landlords,
cannot avoid recognising that as the law stands the work of their lives may be taken from them
by any accident of succession. Despite the Land Bill of 1870, they are harassed by a sense
of insecurity. Monetary payment for the work of their best years would not compensate them
for the loss of the holdings, the value of which has been created by their own intelligent
work. In England farmers of this type would assuredly have a lease, and their Irish brethren
hold that schemes for the gradual acquirement of land by tenants should be accompanied by the
"Three F's," and extended over fifty instead of thirty-five years. The latter plan would, they
think, be of little use to the present tenant, as it would practically raise his rent too far,
and thus prevent him from doing his best by the land. Great force is given to these opinions
by evidence in my possession, that, although a great deal of land has been reclaimed within
the last fifty years, a large proportion is running barren for want of means on the farmers'
part to cultivate it properly.

The panic among all classes connected with "landlordism" is on the increase. All who can conveniently
leave county Kerry are doing so. If I go for a drive with one of those proscribed by the grogshop-keepers
of Castleisland the muzzle of a double-barrelled carbine peeps ominously from the "well" of
the car. Meanwhile all enterprise and development of the country is arrested. The North Kerry
Railway, connecting this town with Limerick, will, I believe, be opened next week, "despite
of foes," but other undertakings are for the moment paralysed. This is the more to be regretted,
as Tralee is a rising place. After a desperate struggle against the inertness of Western Ireland
on the subject of pure water, the uncongenial element has been introduced so skilfully and
with so much fall that a jet can be thrown over any house in Tralee. The last new idea is a
railway to Fenit Without, six miles down the bay. Up to the present time vessels have been
brought to Tralee by a ship canal, but it is now sought to construct a railway running on to
a pier, the elbow of which should be formed by Great Camphire Island. The cost of the railway
will be 45,000l., of which 30,000l. is guaranteed by the county, and a large part of the balance
taken up by the town. The pier is a far more serious business, depending on the Board of Works;
but all attention is diverted from this and other important subjects by the terrorism which
has, only just recently, extended to the county of Kerry.

KILLARNEY, CO. KERRY, Thursday, Dec. 9th.

The eviction--of landlords and land-agents--is going on bravely. Mr. Hussey, Lord Kenmare's
agent, left Kerry a short time ago, and the Lord Chamberlain himself left Killarney House yesterday
morning, not in a paroxysm of indignant "landlordism," but "more in sorrow than in anger."
Lord Kenmare, who is a downright resident Irish landlord, s'il en fust oncques, confessedly
leaves Ireland with great regret, and bade his people "Good-bye, for a long time" with no feigned
grief. But he finds the country uninhabitable, while indignation meetings are held almost at
his gates, and the very labourers whom he has done so much to employ make common cause with
the farmers against him in paying no rent. The improvements going on here for some time past
are stopped, and about 200l. a week of wages lost to the neighbourhood. The causes which led
to Lord Kenmare's departure have but recently sprung into existence. The jacquerie only reached
Kerry the other day, and already the county is revolutionised. Thanks to The O'Donoghue and
other Land Leaguers, Kerry is now in as unsettled a condition as Mayo, Galway, Clare, and Limerick.
The flame was long in reaching this remote region; but when it came it fell among inflammable
stuff, as will be gathered from the almost ridiculous circumstance of farmers and labourers
combining together against a supposed common enemy. Farmers who a fortnight ago talked scornfully
of those who "held the harvest" have, to my certain knowledge, subscribed to the Land League
within the last few days, and I am informed that those who have hitherto held out will be members
before another week is gone. It is true that additional allurements are held out to them. The
three "F's" no longer satisfy the more advanced spirits who emulate Mr. Parnell's magnificent
vagueness, and declare it quite impossible that any measure likely to pass the Houses of Parliament
as at present constituted will satisfy the people of Ireland. Meanwhile terrorism is upheld
as a legitimate weapon of reform. If it were possible to be surprised at anything taking place
in Ireland at the present moment, I should have been surprised at a farmer to whom I was talking
a couple of days ago, and who farms between two and three hundred acres under an "improving"
landlord. The farmer, who was evidently a local luminary on the land question, is only a recent
convert to Land League principles; but he was nevertheless prepared to defend the cowardly
kind of general strike against an individual, known as "Boycotting." He also talked a great
deal about fair rents and the compulsion that farmers are under to pay anything that their
landlords choose to ask. Yet this very man was, not long since, offered the profitable farm
he now occupies in the place of smaller and less convenient holdings. Asked by his landlord
what he thought he ought to pay, he offered two and a half times Griffith's valuation, and
on the landlord asking him three times that rate, agreed with him to "split the difference,"
and was, or appeared to be, satisfied. But at that moment he had not been made conscious of
his wrongs, and of his down-trodden, serf-like condition. He is fully aware of them now, and,
in plain English, is prepared to make the best of the present opportunity.

As the possible peasant proprietor of the future is a personage much discussed among landlords
and others just how, I thought it well to consult the farmer as well as the legal and proprietorial
minds on this important subject. I was at once struck by the "so far and no farther" tone,
so to speak, of the larger farmers. According to many of those I consulted, no greater disaster
could occur to Ireland than the creation of peasant proprietors. I will endeavour to give,
as nearly as possible, the exact words of farmers whose ideas concerning the claims of their
own class are of the most advanced I have heard.

The instant I asked a question concerning the peasant-proprietor problem and the future of
the "poor devil" cottiers, whose sufferings have made an excellent stalking-horse for the farmers,
properly so-called, I was met with a well-formulated objection to any scheme of peasant proprietorship.
The cottier pauvre diable appears, I apprehend, to the farmers as a labourer, and they therefore
look with anything but favour upon a scheme for raising the poor peasants above the necessity
of working for them, by giving the poor a real stake in the country. The farmers hold that,
unless some stringent regulations against subdividing or subletting be adopted and firmly enforced,
the creation of peasant proprietors on an extensive scale will be the greatest misfortune that
ever befell Ireland; as in the course of time it will create a nation of beggars, which cannot
be maintained on the land. The farmer mind fails to perceive how any Act of Parliament can
prevent an owner or peasant proprietor from selling his entire interest in his holding. This,
they argue, will lead to the creation of a race of landlords who will bring more misery and
ruin upon the country than anything that the present generation is acquainted with; as necessarily
the class of landlords thus formed will be more exacting and severe upon their tenants than
the present large territorial proprietors.

Thus far the farmer, who so far as the evils of subdivision or subletting are concerned is
at one with the great landed proprietor, who, thanks to the recklessness of his predecessors,
sees his efforts to improve his property paralysed, and his own personal honour and reputation
endangered by the acts of the leaseholders or fee-farm, renters over whom he has no power whatever.
Many large holdings are leased to middlemen who have sublet them at extravagant rents, but
cannot be dispossessed. This is the system which now exists, yet the great landholders I have
consulted describe it as the result which will be brought about by giving the fee-simple of
holdings to cottier tenants. "And," I am asked on all sides, "is fixity of tenure to signify
the fixture of little tenants in their present holdings, on which they cannot possibly lead
a reasonably human existence? Is it intended to stereotype disaster, to perpetuate the blundering
of the past? Or is it intended to give them at great expense to the country, larger holdings
on partially reclaimed waste lands on the system commended by Mr. Mitchell Henry, and perhaps
applicable to Connemara, if not to other places? And is it intended that when Mike, and Thady,
and Tim are settled on their new clearings they are to do as they like on them, to subdivide,
to sublet, to conacre, to settle their numerous children and their children's children on the
original forty-acre farm? And are they, after they have taken possession of it, partly reclaimed
and brought under plough, to be allowed to cultivate it or not cultivate it as they like--to
let it all go back first to pasture then to sedge, and finally to bog?"

Mainly with a view to elicit further expression of opinion, I hinted to the last and most accomplished
person who put these queries to me, that it would be absurd to give the cottier absolute control
over his land, and that he should have a conditional lease from the Government, the four cardinal
conditions being--that he should not subdivide; that he should not sublet; that he should not
take in a partner; that he should cultivate some portion of the land according to a prescribed
system. I saw the fine Irish "oi" of my friend gleam with triumph. "A second Daniel," he almost
shouted; "a second Daniel come from England. But are you aware, my friend, that you have evolved
from your own unaided consciousness one of 'Lord Leitrim's leases'--the leases, which cost
him his life? Bating the fines which he injudiciously levied you have exactly the programme
for enforcing which he was shot, as you would probably be if you attempted anything of the
kind. It is not at the signing of the leases that any difficulty would arise, but in carrying
their letter and spirit into effect."

In view of the conflicting opinions held by able residents in the western and south-western
counties, I thought it well to inspect a few estates, great and small, and to record such visible
and otherwise well ascertained facts as might bear on the questions now at issue. My first
visit in Kerry was to Clashatlea on the hill-side, opposite the station of Gortatlea on the
railway line to Tralee. This townland is the property of Mr. Arthur Blennerhasset, of Ballyseedy,
and it has fallen into an awful condition through no fault of its present proprietor.

Years ago the land was let for electioneering purposes, akin to the creation of faggot votes,
and a vast number of small holders became fixed upon land from which it is impossible to evict
them. The approach to the small holdings lies along a cross road now in the course of construction
from the lower road to the mountain road into Tralee. The cross road is in its present wet
and unfinished condition a sore trial to man and beast; but it has a history nevertheless.
Years ago it was a matter of complaint by the cottiers of Clashatlea that to obtain turf they
were obliged to make a great detour involving the climbing of a severe hill. An attempt was
made to lay a road on the lines now in progress; but it never grew into more than "the name
of a road." So the little peasant cultivators whose land abutted on the abortive road gradually
absorbed it into their possessions, each peasant taking his section in turn; a system exactly
like that followed in bygone days by English landholders, and now attempted by the riparian
proprietors of the Thames Valley. So far these poor people imitated the method of their social
superiors; but they were not so fortunate as some of these in retaining their plunder. The
new road was decreed, and Mike, and Thady, and Tim were obliged to withdraw within their ancient
limits. Along the new road we went, bumping and jolting, at the imminent risk of the guns and
revolvers in the car going off, until we reached the upper road by the glen. In parts the wretched
houses were separated by a perceptible distance; but here and there they had been built side
by side to accommodate the increasing population on the holdings.

How minute the subdivision has been may be gathered from the fact that 335 English acres, whereof
some 250 are good for anything in their present condition, are divided among 40 tenant families,
whose numbers may be safely put down at 200 souls. The land is therefore divided at the rate
of one and a quarter English acres per head, and when it is mentioned that the most important
tenant pays a rent of 17l. 10s., it will be seen that some of the holdings are ridiculously
small. Many range from 4l. to 5l. per annum and are absolutely incapable of providing food
for a family. It has been found impossible to reduce the number of tenants to any sensible
degree without incurring the hatred of the country side, and the old and infirm whose children
are dead or have emigrated, still cling to the miserable cabins in which their lives have been
passed.

On the opposite side of Tralee I witnessed a spectacle of a widely different character. A smart
drive from Tralee northwards through a blinding rain landed me at Ardfert, the village in the
centre of Mr. W. Crosbie's wonderfully improved estate. Going about his work quietly and unostentatiously,
the proprietor has, in the course of forty-two years, completely altered the conditions of
existence on his land. When it came into his possession in 1838, it was, as many Irish estates
are now, suffering from local congestion of population. Mr. Crosbie's father had inherited
from the Earl of Glendore, who had given leases under the old penal laws. At the time only
Protestants were allowed to hold leases, and in consequence of the small number of Protestants
compared with the demand for lessees, the leases were obtained upon very advantageous terms--a
long period, a low rent, and few conditions. The result was that the penal law, like other
clumsy devices of the kind, defeated itself; for there was nothing to prevent the lessee from
subletting the land. This had been done to an enormous extent when Mr. Crosbie came into possession,
and the lowland part of the estate was greatly over-populated. The upper part was greatly under-populated,
and in the words of the proprietor, nothing could be worse than the way in which the tenants
held the land. "No one knew from year to year which farm he had to till, and they used to divide
every field and divide the crops every year." Mr. Crosbie was not deterred by the difficulty
of the task before him, and undertook the redistribution of his tenantry, on the anti-rundale
system, and by degrees succeeded in planting the surplus population of the lowlands upon the
higher ground. Moreover he anticipated the ideas of Mr. Mitchell Henry and Canon Griffin by
putting his tenants under the direct control of a skilled agriculturist, under his own supervision.
Having thus redistributed his people on the land and taught them the elements of agricultural
science, he commenced the work of building them suitable houses and farm buildings.

Mr. Crosbie's estate in Kerry is of 9,913 acres valued by Government at 4,638l., with a present
rent roll of 8,500l., thanks to the expenditure of 40,000l. since 1839. As one approaches Ardfert
the cabin common in Kerry vanishes to make room for houses well and substantially built of
concrete, with whale-back roofs also of concrete. The merit of originally introducing concrete
as a building material into this part of Ireland belongs, I believe, to Mr. Mahony, of Dromore,
who has employed it largely on his own estate; but Mr. Crosbie was, at least, one of the first
to perceive the advantage of using it. With Portland cement and the sand and pebbles of the
adjacent sea-shore he has made a concrete village, and given his farmers houses of a kind previously
unknown in his neighbourhood. Concrete has several advantages keenly appreciated in Kerry.
It is dry--an immense advantage in a humid climate, and floors, ceilings, partition walls,
and roofs, are all made of it, as well as the external walls. It also requires very little
skilled work, and can be built up by ordinary labourers under proper supervision. Another great
advantage is that it can be moulded to any shape and thickness, and is therefore most useful
for barns, cowhouses, and feeding stalls.

The houses and farm buildings I have seen certainly seem perfect, and have, I am informed,
been constructed at about the same price as corrugated iron. Those fond of tracing the genius
of a nation in its constructive faculty will probably be amused at finding that the latest
work of structural genius in Kerry is a development of that mud-hut order of architecture which
has existed here from pre-historic times. But concrete well employed is a very different thing
from the dirt-pie or mud-hut idea at the other end of the evolutionary chain.

Mr. Chute, of Chute Hall, is also an improver and architectural reformer, his efforts being
directed towards the abolition of thatch in favour of slate, an idea which has proved more
fortunate in his case than in that of the great-grandfather of the present Lord Kenmare. The
great estates of the Lord Chamberlain have curiously enough been equally damaged by the care
and carelessness of his ancestors. His great-grandfather was disgusted at the condition of
the town of Killarney, and offered any tenant who would build a decent house with a slate roof
a perpetual lease of the land it stood upon and the adjoining garden for a nominal rent of
four shillings and fourpence per annum, without other important conditions. The result has
been that Killarney can boast of as filthy lanes as any in London or Liverpool. The ordinary
process, the same as that which formed the hideous slums between Drury-lane and Great Wild-street,
now happily demolished, has gone on in Killarney. Tenants under no restrictions gradually converted
their gardens into lanes of hovels, and made money thereby, and the result is a concentration
in Killarney of filth which would be better distributed on the side of a mountain, and which
is under the nose of a landlord who is powerless to apply a remedy.

Not long ago Lord Kenmare sought to establish what is called here a Temperance Hall, for the
purpose of giving lecturers and entertainers a chance of amusing the people; but the proprietor
of the ground, after a prolonged negotiation, declined to surrender his property. Killarney
is in the hands of the dwellers therein, and a very poor place it is.

Conversely Lord Kenmare's property suffers severely from the recklessness of the ancestor who
flourished in the "comet year," famous for hock. That spirited nobleman, averse to the nuisance
of dealing directly with tenants, leased a large portion of his property to middlemen in 1811
for forty-one years or three lives; that is to say, for a minimum of forty-one years with expansion
to three lives. The effect of this fatal policy of giving away all power of supervision and
management has been made manifest in the past, and is yet visible on those portions of the
estate the three-life leases of which have not yet fallen in. The gross rental of Lord Kenmare's
estates in Kerry, Cork, and Limerick, amounting altogether to 118,606 acres, is 37,713l., against
Griffith's valuation of 34,473l., but the distribution of this sum is very unequal, especially
since the rents of the yearly tenants were raised in 1876, in some cases to the by no means
unfair extent of 50 per cent. above the poor-rate valuation.

The 3,300 tenants on Lord Kenmare's property have been mainly put upon the land by middlemen
who made a great profit out of their three-life leases. The lands of Mastergechy, Knockacrea,
and Knockacappul are all let at an immense reduction on Griffith's valuation, but to middlemen,
who realise from 200 to 300 per cent. on their investment. Despite these drawbacks, Lord Kenmare
is an "improving" landlord, and has laid out in the last ten months some 7,000l. on his property.
The pretty tile-roof cottages outside of Killarney are a reproach to the town itself, over
which Lord Kenmare, after the manner of many other Irish landlords, has no kind of control.

VALENTIA, CO. KERRY, Dec. 12th.

In a previous letter I alluded to the length of time it had taken the Land League agitation
to make itself felt in Kerry, and to the swiftness with which, when once ignited, the far south-west
of Ireland blazed into open disaffection. The causes of this slowness to light up, immediately
followed by a fierce and sudden flame, are by no means obscure. Kerry has always been the last
place to follow a popular movement, and the last to relinquish it.

As the French Revolution and its effects on Ireland were not heard of in Kerry till long after
the establishment of the Empire, so was Ross Castle, on the lower lake at Killarney, the last
stronghold subdued by Ludlow; and so also was Kerry the last stronghold of Fenianism. Moribund
in the other parts of Ireland until Nationalists and Land Leaguers were united, by the prosecution
of Mr. Parnell, Fenianism still lingered and lingers on in Kerry. In the pot-houses of Tralee,
Castle Island, and Cahirciveen the embers of Fenianism have smouldered since the outbreak of
1867. Slow to learn, Kerry has been slow to forget, and when once the emissaries of the Land
League arrived here they found ready to their hand the cadre at least of a formidable organisation,
and the reign of terrorism at once commenced.

Up to the present moment I have not heard of houses being blown up by dynamite after the fashion
in Bantry, but the farmers who have already not paid their rents decline to do so, or pay in
full secretly, while openly subscribing to the Land League and denouncing the mean-spirited
serfs who would pay a farthing above Griffith's valuation.

There is no mistaking the strength of the movement which has at last reached this remote island,
between which and America, as a native said to me yesterday, "There is not as much as the grass
of a goat." This saying refers to the popular method of measurement, which is not by acres,
but by the grass of so many cows, according to the richness of the pasture. Up to a month ago
there was no talk of the Land League on Valentia Island. The tenants had for the most part
paid their May rents, and the situation therefore afforded little scope for agitation; but
the subtle spirit which spread instantaneously from Tralee to Cahirciveen quickly traversed
the ferry, and now the Valentians are as keen on the subject of their grievances as anybody
else in the western half of Ireland. At Cahirciveen anti-landlordism is as vigorous at this
moment as at Tralee, or even at Ennis itself, albeit violent personal outrages have not been
perpetrated in the immediate neighbourhood.

A resolute and influential leader of the people declared to me yesterday that the spirit now
aroused would never be quelled but by a full and generous recognition of the claims of the
cultivators. He averred that the people are not only awakened to their wrongs and determined
to have them redressed, but that they possess the power of enforcing their will. I hinted that
savage threats and deeds of violence might produce temporary anarchy, but that the end of all
would be the crushing of the League with a strong hand. The answer was not argument, but defiance.
It was impossible, the speaker asserted, to crush the combination now existing in Kerry. It
could not be crushed, for the simple reason that it did not transgress the law. This was startling
news, and I at once asked what was to be said of the dynamite affair at Bantry, the ear-cutting
business near Castle Island, and the shooting of a bailiff in Tyrone? Only one of those things,
I was instantly reminded, had occurred in Kerry, and I was moreover instructed that personal
violence was preached against by the Land League priests, and opposed by all lay leaders. The
crimes alluded to were the accidents of a great upheaval of the people, who could attain their
objects perfectly well without violence.

To the objection that without occasional violence the terrorism now existing would lose all
its strength, that threats never carried out would become ridiculous, that when violence ceased,
tenants as well as landlords would set the Land League law aside and, do as they pleased, it
was replied that the great agrarian movement had passed through the period of terrorism as
nations pass through the early stage of baronial rights, especially that of private war. The
present condition of the anti-landlord party was not that of a revolt, but of a strike, which
whether it was wise and according to the laws of political economy or not, was clearly lawful.
There was no constitutional right in any one man to compel another to work for him, and a strike
was therefore clearly permissible. It was nonsense to cry out against combination. It was the
only possible method of the weak making good their case against the strong, and the landlords
might combine, and welcome, if they thought it would do them any good. Nobody wanted to shoot
them any more, for they were "Quite, quite down." The present strike was of an unprecedented
character. Strikes of workpeople were sometimes met and defeated by combinations of masters,
because the masters held the property and plant, and the men had nothing but their heads and
hands, and perhaps a little money in savings banks. So the masters lasted the longest and won,
except when their number included a large proportion of needy, speculative manufacturers, who
durst not stop their mills, and thus became the indirect and unwilling allies of the artisan.
But where the masters were few and wealthy, the artisans had no chance against them.

It was far otherwise with the Irish farmers and cottiers, who not only "held the harvest,"
or rather its monetary result, but held the land and were "not going to give it up." The people,
the speaker opined, had really won the battle already, and it was for them to exercise the
power they had suddenly become aware of wisely and mercifully. There was no further need for
violence or threats of violence, but what was called the law should not be carried out until
the claims of the Irish people were fully admitted by the English Government.

How then was this gigantic strike to be carried on without violence or threatening life or
limb? Quite easily was the reply--by extending the process of "Boycotting." This is, it seems,
the great constitutional weapon on which neither horse, foot, nor artillery can be brought
to bear. Those who will not join the Jacquerie, and aid and abet those Irish analogues of Jacques
Bonhomme, Mike and Thady and Tim, in their resistance to "landlordism" shall be "Boycotted";
and all those who refuse to join in "Boycotting" an offender shall be treated in the same way.

Already the stoutest hearted are yielding on every side to the dread of being "Boycotted,"
a doom which signifies simply that the victim must surrender or leave the country. It means
that nobody will buy or sell with any member of the family which is declared "taboo"; that
the farmer may drive his cattle and pigs to market, but will not find a purchaser; that he
may reap his grain and pull his potatoes, but that not a soul in the country will buy them
for fear of being "Boycotted" himself. It means that the baker will refuse him bread, and the
butcher meat; that no draper who knows his wife by sight will sell her as much as a ribbon;
that not a creature will buy her butter and eggs, chickens and turkeys, geese and ducks; that
she will be unable to buy any article of food or luxury for her children, and that they will
be "sent to Coventry" at school.

There is not an atom of exaggeration in anything here stated. It is not a fancy picture, but
as genuine as that of Mr. Boycott himself; and there is no doubt that the taste for "Boycotting"
is spreading rapidly, as my informant, who is heartily in favour of it, declares it is "clean
within any law that could be made, let alone carried out." It is impossible to compel any community
to have dealings with a person whom they dislike, and the anti-landlord party are determined
to carry their point without, as appears on the notices served on farmers, "hurting one hair
of their heads." "Isolation" has, in fact, been added to the number of the arts which soften
manners and forbid them to be savage. It is the sprig of shillelagh in a velvet sheath.

XV.

THE "BOYCOTTING" OF MR. BENCE JONES.

CORK, Friday, Dec. 17th.

The present condition of Mr. W. Bence Jones, of Lisselan, whom I called upon to-day, illustrates
most vividly the advance made in the art of "Boycotting" since its invention. Early attempts
in any artistic direction are apt to be crude, and when "Boycotting" was first practised at
Lough Mask it put on the guise of a general strike of the country side against an individual,
but its effect was purely local. Since that time great progress has been made in shaping and
finishing what one of my informants defined as "a strictly constitutional weapon." At this
moment the arm of the skilful "Boycotter" is long. It can stop the sale of the original victim's
potatoes in a northern town; it can keep Mr. Stacpoole from getting rid of his horses in Limerick;
and can actually prevent Mr. Bence Jones from sending his cattle from Cork to England. The
latter gentleman is isolated on his estate at Lisselan, a place near Ballinascarthy, between
Bandon and Clonakilty, in this county, but his isolation has not yet gone, in some respects,
to the same brutal length as that of Mr. Boycott. He is still permitted to receive and to despatch
his letters; and car-drivers have, perhaps by some oversight of the "Boycotters," not yet been
warned to avoid his house as if it were a lazaretto, and to refuse to carry his visitors within
miles of his door. Perhaps he is considered by the mysterious persons who alone exercise authority
in Ireland just now as only a "tyrant" of the second or third degree, and not as a first-class
malefactor.

But, however this may be, I found none of the difficulty in reaching Lisselan which accompanied
my second visit to Lough Mask House. When I started from Bandon this morning, that thriving
town was wrapped in slumber, although the sun was shining brightly out of a deep blue sky,
just flecked at the horizon with pearly-hued clouds. The ground was hard and crisp, and the
hoofs of the horses rang out merrily as I sped in the direction of Clonakilty, through an undulating
country mainly devoted to pasture, some of which was rough and sedgy. As I approached Ballinascarthy
the quality of the land was visibly better.

Lisselan House lies in the midst of a charming pastoral scene. Beyond the clean-cut lawn flows
the silvery flood of the Arrigadeen, its opposite bank is clothed with the bright green tops
of white turnips in the midst of which is penned a flock of sheep (Shropshire Downs), and in
the distance are green meadows and browsing kine. All would be soft, peaceful, and Arcadian,
were it not for the helmets of the 3rd Dragoon Guards glittering in the sun as the patrol turns
the corner of the wood, and the tall, dark figures of the Royal Irish Constabulary guarding
the gate and doorstep. At present the house, the farm, and the neighbouring village are occupied
by the police, and it has been thought necessary to increase the strength of the garrison in
order to assure the safety of the servants who, to their infinite credit in such times as these,
remain true to their master.

It is not pretended for an instant that either Mr. W. Bence Jones or his son, who are as gigantic
of stature as they are resolute of mind, need fear personal attack. They are known to be armed
to the teeth, and the chances are that the weak-minded labourers who have deserted them are
far more afraid of "the masters" than they are of them. The household of Lisselan consists
for the time being of the Messrs. Bence Jones, father and son. Miss Bence Jones, their English
house servants, two labourers--whereof one is English and the other Irish--Mr. Law, the Scotch
bailiff, and an Irish housemaid, who has remained faithful, and helps Miss Bence Jones to milk
the cows and to attend to the dairy. The road is slippery on the high ground hard by, and it
is debated at Lisselan House whether the farrier of the Dragoon Guards shall not be asked to
"sharpen" the shoes of the animals employed there, for no local workman will touch them.

As I pass by the dairy, one of those in which collectively Mr. Bence Jones makes 1,000l. worth
of butter yearly, I see the trim housemaid, dressed in cotton print, milking a cow, and am
presently aware of "the master's" son and daughter, who have been up since the dawn feeding
and penning cattle and sheep, and milking the cows. Since Monday the strike among the Irish
employed on the house and the farm has, with the exceptions already mentioned, been rigidly
maintained. The men, about forty in number, were "noticed" on Friday; on Saturday they announced
their intention of working no more for Mr. Bence Jones, and on Monday deserted the place as
if it were plague-stricken.

On Monday morning Mr. Law stood aghast at the sight of a farm of a thousand acres with nobody
to work it; but he soon recovered himself, and with the help of his own work, that of a couple
of labourers left, and the co-operation of the master's son and daughter, matters went on despite
the strike. Mr. Law is, of course, as a good Scotch bailiff should be, greatly distressed at
the state of his cow-houses, feeding-stalls, and stockyard, now ankle-deep in "muck"; but the
fine shorthorned bull seems none the worse, and the pigs have taken kindly to the new and disorderly
condition of affairs. But things are not brought to a deadlock yet. Of the animals "Boycotted"
in Dublin the sheep have since been shipped, and it is thought here that at the moment of writing
the cattle will be on their way to Sir Thomas Dyke Acland, to whom they are consigned.

Byron wrote that "nought so much the spirit calms as rum and true religion;" but this dictum
is hardly confirmed in the case of Mr. Bence Jones's assailants, who number among them a minister
of religion, as well as the irrepressible grogshop-keeper. I am informed that last Sunday the
mutinous labourers--or, perhaps, it would be more correct to say the labourers who have been
coerced by threats into mutiny--were addressed in the vestry by Father Mulcahy, and that either
he or some other person assured them that they would receive their wages as if they were still
employed. However this may be, the unfortunate families, about thirty in number, who have struck
at the bidding of the anti-landlord party, are making a sorry bargain; for many of the men
are getting on in years, and will have to seek work and house-room elsewhere when they are
turned out of their cottages to make room for the strange hands who are coming to do the work
they refuse to do. The neat little dwellings of stone and slate that I observed to-day on the
Lisselan estate are not let to the labourers, but are, with as much potato land as they can
manure, thrown in with their wages, 11s. per week. They must now make way for people who will
work, and are not afraid of "Rory of the Hills." Offers of help pour in upon Mr. Bence Jones,
and the first detachment of labourers is expected forthwith. One friend offers a phalanx of
English navvies; but temperate counsels prevail, and it is thought better to get the really
small number of men required brought in quietly. With police everywhere at Lisselan and Ballinascarthy,
and cavalry patrols always at hand, it is hardly likely that violence will be attempted towards
the newcomers or the present slender garrison.

There are, as in all such cases, conflicting reports as to the cause of the quarrel, if such
it can be designated, between landlord and labourer at Lisselan. In his forthcoming book, A
Life's Work in Ireland, by a Landlord who tried to do his duty, Mr. Bence Jones will doubtless
describe with characteristic accuracy the objects he had in view, and the means he took to
accomplish them. He has also already made known his difficulties and disappointments through
the medium of the Press. He has undoubtedly, had abundant opportunity of weighing the possibilities
of Irish country life during the long period of his residence in Ireland. It is also clear
to any unprejudiced person that he has striven, not only to do his duty by the land, but by
the tenants occupying one part of it and the labourers employed on the other. In round numbers
he owns about 4,000 acres, of which he farms 1,000 himself. Besides 1,000l. worth of butter
annually made, he sells 1,000l. worth more of cattle, and 1,000l. worth of sheep and wool,
besides oats and various other produce.

While this one-thousand-acre farm was let to tenants, it yielded its proprietor an average
rental of 17s. an acre. No person acquainted with farming would for an instant assume that
a small tenant could make nearly as much out of his land as the farmer of a thousand acres;
but allowing for all this, 14s. 3d. per acre appeared a very low rate to the landlord of the
farm of fifty-eight acres occupied for the last half-century by the Walsh family. I gather
that the grandfather of D. Walsh held the farm from the grandfather of the present landlord;
that the original occupant was succeeded by his son; that on the son's death his widow retained
undisturbed possession until her son was old enough to assume the management, and that then
the landlord required 20s. per acre from him. To the landlord it seemed that the Walsh family
had had a good bargain. He was informed, with what degree of accuracy I cannot at this moment
ascertain, that the widow had given her four daughters respectively 140l., 130l., 130l., and
the stock of a farm, probably of equal value "to their fortune," and that she had also helped
one of her sons to make a start in the world on an independent farm. From these circumstances
he concluded that he was entitled to more rent than he had been receiving, and demanded 20s.
from her son for a lease of thirty-one years.

To the tenant the case assumed a widely-different aspect. His grandfather, his father and his
mother, had successively occupied the fifty-eight acre farm for fifty years. Two generations
had been bred, if not born, on the holding at Ballinascarthy, just beyond the bridge. They
had been decent people. They had paid their rent, and if his sisters had received good portions
it was no more than their due, considering the respectability of their family. Was he, after
his people had held the land for fifty years, to have it "raised on him" to nearly double Griffith's
valuation? Was it just to increase the rent because his father and mother were dead? All these
questions occurred to the tenant, beyond any matter of improvements and so forth. The landlord's
position is quite intelligible. The value of farm produce had risen so greatly since the original
rent was levied, and the farmer had prospered so well of late years, that the holding was demonstrably
worth more rent than had been paid. On the other hand, the tenant held that the farm had done
well by his people, because they had done well by it, and that to "raise the rent on him" because
his family had behaved honestly and industriously was a monstrous exercise of arbitrary power.
The upshot of the whole matter was a refusal on the part of the whole tenantry to pay the last
"gale" or six months' rent. It is a noteworthy circumstance that none of the tenants are in arrear.

There are other accusations than that of raising the rent brought against Mr. Bence Jones.
The police barrack at Ballinascarthy was once a grogshop, given by the landlord to a dairymaid
who had been long in his service. No sooner had she a groggery "to her fortune" than her hand
was sought by a legion of admirers. It is not, I fancy, generally known in England that in
this romantic country the warmhearted, impulsive peasants almost invariably contract mariages
de convenance.

It is said that a young man in the neighbouring city of Kerry was once sorely vexed in his
mind as to his matrimonial choice. The "matchmaker" who arranges such matters had proposed
two girls to him, one of whom had one cow and the other two cows "to her fortune." Now, the
"Boy" liked the girl with one cow far better than her rival who had two, but the magnitude
of the sacrifice he wished to make sat heavy on his soul. He consulted a patriarch renowned
for his wisdom, and laid great stress upon his love for the girl with one cow. The oracle spake
as follows: "Take the gyurl wid the two cows. There isn't the difference of a cow, begorra,
betune any two women in the wor-r-ld." By similar reasoning a superannuated dairymaid with
a grogshop is a very different person to the "pretty girl milking her cow"--sovereign lady
of her presence, but of no groggery beside. Consequently the woman got married and died, and
her husband having proved objectionable was evicted and the grogshop extinguished. This was
another grievance against Mr. Bence Jones, who is known to oppose the indiscriminate licensing
which takes place in many parts of Ireland. I believe that in the neighbouring townlet of Clonakilty
there are no less than forty-two whisky shops, a proportion to make Lord Aberdare's hair to
stand on end. Furthermore it seems that after bearing with Mr. Bence Jones for nearly forty
years the people have dubbed him "tyrant" and "domineering Saxon," epithets certain to be applied
to any Englishman who tries to do his own work in his own way in Ireland. Any insistance on
anything being done in the master's way instead of the man's is "tyranny." Any curt command
is "domineering." Irish peasants are accustomed to easier and pleasanter ways, and like to
be coaxed and petted. It is only just to admit that under this treatment they display the utmost
goodwill and pliancy. They will do anything to serve those who take them rightly, but they
hate discipline. To the Saxon again it seems hard that he should be called upon to waste time
in coaxing a mere hewer of wood and drawer of water, who, moreover, hews wood very badly, and
draws water with exasperating deliberation. But a peremptory tone will not answer in southern
and western Ireland.

It may be urged that it has taken the people a long time to discover that Mr. Bence Jones was
a tyrant. One thing is certain--they are likely soon to be rid of him. By living carefully
he has been enabled to spend a large proportion of his income in improving his estate. He now
announces his intention of throwing all his farm into pasture and leaving a country which has
become uninhabitable.

It is curious, to say the least, that as he was correcting the proofs of the volume which embodies
his experience, he was called upon to rise and welcome the resident magistrate and the officer
commanding the patrol, considered necessary for the preservation of himself, his family, and
the few dependants who yet remain steadfast.

CORK, December 20th.

It is impossible to exaggerate the panic prevailing among the landed proprietors of Cork, Kerry,
Tipperary, Limerick, and Clare. Within the triangle, which may be roughly described as inclosed
by Galway town, Waterford, and Valentia Island, a reign of terror paralyses all those classes
of the population owning any kind of property directly or indirectly connected with land.

Perhaps the agents whose calling is menaced with extinction preserve the most equable mind
under the present arduous circumstances. They are to the manner born. They are accustomed to
receive threatening letters frequently, and to be shot at now and then. Individually, therefore,
they bear up very well, but it is far otherwise with their families, who look forward to St.
Stephen's Day and its threatened meetings with undisguised apprehension. The men leave home
in the morning bristling with double-barrelled carbines and revolving pistols, and, confiding
either in themselves, their police escort, or both, keep, in the language of the country, a
"good heart"; but it is far otherwise with their wives and daughters. As the "master" and the
"boys" prepare to depart, and guns are being put on the car, together with the rugs and macintoshes,
the matron's cheek grows pale, and her lips quiver as she bids farewell to the beloved ones,
whom she may never see "safe home" again. This is no picture drawn by the imagination, with
which flattering critics are pleased to credit me.

Such a scene as I describe was witnessed by me a few days ago, and I regret to hear that the
brave lady, who bore up well for several weeks against ever-present anxiety, has broken down
at last, and lies on a bed of sickness. In this struggle against a covert mutiny, women, as
in open warfare, are the chief sufferers. There are many of the men who ask for nothing better
than to be let loose on some visible mortal representatives of their intangible foe. But the
general feeling is despondent. The unfortunate landowners, house proprietors, and many of the
merchants, complain bitterly that they are delivered into the hands of a "convict," whose ticket
of leave enables him to paralyse the industry of the country.

To a person unconnected with the landed interest of Ireland it is at first a little difficult
to understand the almost insane terror of nearly all persons endowed with property. To the
stranger the country is absolutely safe, and unless in the company of landlords or land agents
he may go safely unarmed in any part of Ireland I have visited; but resident proprietors, and
the representatives of absentees, are in very different case, and the farmers and labourers
who have not yet joined the Land League are in a still worse position. So skilfully has this
organisation been carried out that hardly a creature dare do his duty or speak his mind except
the judges. In Court to-day the man O'Halloran, whose being sent up for trial at the Assizes
here occasioned the riot at Tulla a few days since, was tried for appending a threatening notice
to a chapel door. It will be recollected that the prisoner was brought before the magistrates
at Tulla rather than at Ennis, in order to avoid a tumult, but that on its being known that
he was committed for trial an uproar occurred, which ended in the bayoneting of three of the
rioters by the police. The man was tried here to-day, and he will be tried again to-morrow
before another jury.

I may not express an opinion on the evidence of the police; it will suffice that the jury of
to-day did not agree, and that this absence of result provoked some severe remarks from the
bench. Great blame is thrown upon Lord O'Hagan's Act for frequent miscarriage of justice in
this country, but the truth is that the outside pressure is too strong for any but a "packed"
jury of independent, that is to say non-resident, persons to withstand.

That terrorism has prevailed not only over landlords who are flying from the country, and agents
who are at least putting their families in the few places in which some semblance of order
prevails--that is, within the shadow of a police barrack or under the wing of a garrison--but
over merchants, as was proved the other day in the case of Mr. Bence Jones's cattle. I hear
of a similar occurrence to-day. Mr. Richard Stacpoole, of Eden Vale, county Clare, wrote a
few days since to a firm in Limerick for twelve tons of oilcake, not an insignificant order
from a responsible person as times go. The answer was that the firm in question had not a pound
of oilcake in store, but that the order could be transferred to a firm in Cork, who would direct
the cake to some other person than Mr. Stacpoole, "to be left till called for" at the Ennis
Railway Station, and that if the purchaser would send somebody else's carts for it late at
night or very early in the morning, he would probably get it home safely. It may be imagined
that Mr. Stacpoole declined to receive oilcake as if it were "potheen" or other contraband,
and at once closed his account with the firm in question.

This instance is quoted out of many to show that the art of "Boycotting" is advancing from
the proportions of a mere local strike to those of an almost national combination against any
person who has incurred the resentment of the popular party. It is noteworthy that strict adherence
to the "constitutional weapon" is mainly confined to the cases of those whom it is unsafe to
attack by more violent means. His enemies dare not make an onslaught on Mr. Stacpoole himself,
for reasons well known and thoroughly appreciated; so they clip the ears of wretched hinds
who are neither strong nor courageous enough to resist their violence, which is just now only
employed against the defenceless; but such outrages are apparently quite sufficient to make
the power of the Jacquerie absolute.

I am weary of hearing from panic-stricken interviewers that the "real Government of Ireland
is that of the Land League;" but the facts adduced can hardly be passed over in silence. For
the present, creditors have only two courses to pursue--to accept Griffith's valuation where
they can get it, or to do nothing, await the action of Parliament, and go without money for
their Christmas bills. "Weak holders," as they are called in the commercial world, must take
what they can get, and stronger capitalists may wait for better times; for it is impossible
to put the existing laws for the recovery of debt into effect. Evictions are out of the question.
Neither Dublin writs nor "civil bills" can be served, except in a large town or its immediate
neighbourhood, and seizure of goods for a common debt in country places is quite out of the
question. The principal process-server in the town of Tipperary has retired from service, and
addressed himself to "J.J." for several days past. That matters are going from bad to worse
is proved by the calibre of the persons who are amply capable of paying their rent, but are
afraid to do so. More than this, those who have paid before they received notices are threatened
with pains and penalties if they do not join, publicly approve of, and subscribe to the popular
combination.

Startling cases have just occurred in Tipperary. A farmer paying a very large rent even by
English measure is leaving the country because he is threatened by vengeance if he do not immediately
take back a labourer whom he dismissed for misconduct. Another large farmer is informed that
all his labourers will be compelled to leave his employment unless he instantly joins the League.
His farm includes a large percentage of tillage, and he must either undergo heavy pecuniary
loss or submit, as he probably will do. A smaller tenant, who had been discovered to have paid
on account a trifle more than Griffith's valuation, has been compelled to ask his landlord
to give him the little balance back and a receipt in full. The request was acceded to, for
the poor man declared that his life was not safe; that nobody would speak to him, and that
nobody would work for him until he had righted himself with "the only Government which can
carry its decrees into effect."

The 2nd Battalion Rifle Brigade has just arrived from Gibraltar, under the command of Colonel
Carr Glyn, and will remain, together with the 26th Regiment, under Colonel Carr, and three
troops of the 3rd Dragoon Guards, in Cork. The 37th Regiment leaves to make room for the Rifle
Brigade; three companies go to Waterford, and the remainder to Kilkenny.

XVI.

A CRUISE IN A GROWLER.

CORK, December 21.

Just before starting towards the scene of the last case of Boycotting I had returned from a
tour in Kerry, undertaken mainly with the object of collecting facts and ideas concerning the
fiercely-debated question of peasant propriety. There are other great estates in Kerry besides
that of Lord Kenmare, which is twenty-six miles long, and covers 91,080 acres. There are Lord
Lansdowne's still greater estate of 94,983 acres, and the large property held by Trinity College,
both of which have given rise to considerable controversy of late.

In many parts of Kerry may be found townlands vying in wretchedness with Coshleen and Champolard,
with Derryinver, Cleggan, and Omey Island while others give abundant evidence of improvement
and enlightened management. On the north side of Dingle Bay lies the estate of Lord Ventry,
a popular landlord I am told, for the reason that he has not "harassed his tenants" with improvements,
nor sought to wipe out the effect of the old middleman style of mismanagement by reducing their
number and forcing them to live in habitations better perhaps than they care for. The crowding
of people into a few villages, brought about partly by the desire of middlemen to make a profit,
partly by electioneering schemes, and partly by the natural gregariousness of the peasants,
has been already too fully dwelt upon to need repetition. What was done by landlords and middlemen
in many places has been emulated by squatters wherever they have succeeded in occupying free
land like the Commons of Ardfert, the condition whereof rivals that of Lurgankeale, in Louth,
and of the historic townland of Tibarney, in common, a map of which hung, if I mistake not,
for some time in the Library of the House of Commons. This last-named spot consisted of 164
statute acres, divided into 222 lots among eleven tenants, who cultivated alternate ridges
and patches in the same field. Whether held by small tenants or landlords or of middlemen or
by small proprietors, the land was always in the same state of confusion.

On portions of the Blennerhasset estate previously spoken of, and on the Commons of Ardfert,
the effect may be studied of influences against which the modern Kerry landlord has been in
many cases striving for the whole of his lifetime. Half a century ago the advice to "neither
a borrower nor a lender be," was systematically ignored. It is curious to hear that two eminent
patriots of the period, Daniel O'Connell and the Knight of Kerry, were both middlemen, and
in the case of Cahirciveen had one of the Blennerhassets as a co-middleman under Trinity College,
and that the compact was only finally annulled by the resolution of the latter to have no more
to do with it. The great "Liberator" considered as a middleman appears in an odd light, but
he was a liberal specimen of the genus, and with his partners supplied Cahirciveen with previously
unheard-of drainage and pavement. At the same time the ends of the Island of Valentia were
leased by Maurice Fitzgerald, Knight of Kerry, the friend of Castlereagh and Wellington, to
other middlemen, and it seemed that the work of confusion could go no further.

The Island of Valentia was, I was informed, a favourable spot on which to study the operation
of paternal government. Sir Peter Fitzgerald, the late Knight of Kerry, had enjoyed unbounded
popularity, and had employed his personal influence to raise the population under his care
in the social scale. When he had retaken the lands leased to Sir James O'Connell or his ancestor,
he found certain lowlands, notably that of Bally Hearny, among a number of small holders; but
the patches held by each tenant were oddly distributed. Three men held farms of thirty acres
each, made up of detached lots completely separate one from the other, and scattered broadcast
over the area of the townlands; while another man's farm of the same area extended from the
sea at one end to the top of the mountain at the other, measuring one mile and fourteen perches
in length, with an average width of twenty perches. After some difficulties had been surmounted
the fields were "squared," the odds and ends of lands consolidated, and the partnership in
fields, with its absurd practice of cultivating alternate ridges, abolished.

In a speech addressed by the Knight of Kerry to his tenants, he distinctly put his foot down
on the system of subdivision, to which the peasantry of Ireland are almost insanely attached.
He determined to permit nothing of the kind in the future. To those who had already subdivided
he offered new mountain farms, leaving the sub-dividers to decide who should remain and who
should remove. To those removed for sub-dividing their small holdings, and to those whose still
smaller patches made their removal imperative, reclaimed and reclaimable lands at Corobeg and
Bray Head were offered, with brand new houses; and after much discussion and final casting
of lots the extruded ones resigned themselves to the fearful doom of removal from the spots
to which they had long clung like limpets.

To reach Valentia Island it is necessary to leave the railway track from Mallow to Tralee,
and at Killarney commence what in London parlance might be called a cruise in a "growler;"
for an unmistakable "growler," well built and comfortably lined, was the vehicle supplied to
me as a "carriage," with a pair of excellent horses, by Spillane, the sometime guide and present
postingmaster of Killarney. The postchaise assumes many forms in Ireland, but only once have
I met the original coupé holding only two persons. It is a long drive to the ferry at the extremity
of the peninsula between the bays of Kenmare and Dingle. Beyond, the Island of Valentia lies
like a breakwater against the Atlantic, and the scene at nightfall is strange enough, with
flashing lanterns, shouting ferrymen, and plashing oars. The ferryman is far from considering
Valentia Harbour as a drawback to the island, and, like a fine old discontented retainer as
he is, complains bitterly of the attempt made years ago by the late Knight of Kerry to establish
a steam ferry. But ferrymen are always stern sticklers for vested rights. Doubtless Charon
claimed heavy compensation when the Styx Ferry was disestablished. Apart from the ferryman,
however, the Valentians are by no means enamoured of their insular position. "That ould blackgyard
of a ferry" is, in fact, just now a serious item of discontent.

It is urged by the islanders, nearly three thousand in number, including the villagers, the
quarrymen, and the staff of telegraphists, presided over by the skilful and courteous Mr. Graves,
that the ferry is the cause of half their troubles. The peasants, who sell their stock at the
thirteen fairs held yearly at Cahirciveen, declare that the cost of the ferry-boat for themselves
and their beasts is a substantial reason for the reduction of the rent, inasmuch as they are
put at a disadvantage with the people on the mainland. This is not the only grievance of that
section transplanted to the hill side by Bray Head. They complain that they are afar off--a
droll objection on an island six miles long--and have given their settlement the nickname of
"Paris," in allusion to its remoteness from Knightstown and the ferry which leads to the grogshops
and Fenian centres of Cahirciveen. I am told that the duty on the spirits sold in that cheerful
townlet exceeds the whole annual value of the barony of Iveragh, and can bear witness to the
convergence of the surrounding population on market day.

Beside the grievances already enumerated, and only felt in their full poignancy since the establishment
of a branch of the Land League at Cahirciveen, the Valentians now complain that their land
is "set" too high.

Amid the mass of conflicting evidence and the diverse methods of calculation, it is very difficult
to arrive at any conclusion on this point. That the land is let above Griffith's valuation
is certain, but so is much more of the cheapest land in the west and south. Moreover, the improvements
made by the late Sir Peter Fitzgerald were not only considerable in the way of draining and
fencing, but are visible to the naked eye in the shape of some fifty new houses, well and solidly
built of stone with slate roofs, sleeping rooms up stairs, properly separated after the most
approved fashion, a cowhouse, and other offices required by the Board of Works. These houses,
which contrast remarkably with the old structures not yet improved off the face of the island,
accommodate half of Sir Maurice Fitzgerald's agricultural tenants, of whom there are about
100 on his part of the island, as well as eighty-eight cottier or labourer tenants, who work
for the farmers or at the slate quarry, and have little patches of ground attached to their
cabins. Each new house built out-and-out has cost 80l., and those put on existing foundations
about 60l. It seems to me wonderful that anybody should dream of building anything on the site
of an Irish peasant's hut, but perhaps I am fastidious. So far as I make it out, about 6 per
cent. has been charged for building and other improvements to the tenant, whose rent has thus
in one case been raised by 2s. 6d., and in others by as much as 3s. 3d. per acre. As the entire
rent in one case reaches 8s., and in the other 10s. 9d. per acre, it does not seem enormous;
but it is no business of mine to decide on value. I only state facts as distinctly as I can,
and whether the rent be light or heavy there is no doubt that the tenants have paid it with
some approach to regularity even up to date, and that the local agitation is deprived of much
of its effervescence owing to this fact. Against this fair side of the picture is the awkward
truth that during the bad times of last winter the Valentians, including the tenants of the
Knight of Kerry and those of Trinity College, received about 1,200l. worth of relief among
a couple of thousand souls.

It is equally worthy of remark that those tenants for whom new houses have been built are by
no means enthusiastic about them, and apparently would rather save the rent of them and live
in a rough stone cabin as of old. I am aware that in making this statement I am liable to a
charge of prejudice against the ignorant people, of whom I can only speak with pity not unmixed
with kindness. I may be told that pigs were thought to be dirty until people took to keeping
them clean, and that the animals are known to prefer their last state to their first. I may
also be told that filth is the outcome of poverty, and that the Irish peasantry are filthy
in their habits because they are poor. Now, to speak out plainly, this is not true; for I have
seen people with a round sum on deposit at the bank, and in one case paying as much as 250l.
rent for their farms, living amid almost indescribable filth. The dislike of soap and water,
except for the visible parts of the human body on high days and holidays, appears to be part
of the general indifference to beauty remarkable in the Irish peasant. His cottage is never
adorned with flowers. Neither rose, honeysuckle, nor jasmine clings around his door. In a climate
which allows fuchsia hedges to grow and bloom luxuriantly none appear round the peasant's garden.
Myrtles, laurel, and bay there are in plenty at Valentia, but they are grouped near the gigantic
fuchsia bush at Glanleam, or nestle among the houses of the telegraphic company. It is the
same in other places. All is unloveliness and squalor, even when potatoes are plentiful and
butter fetches a high price at Cork.

These thoughts were borne strongly in upon me during a visit to "Paris." A drifting rain obscured
the Skelligs, and drove me to take shelter in a "Parisian" household. The house stood sound
and square to the wind with its slated roof and thick stone whitewashed walls, whitewash being
ordained by a Board of Works wildly striving for cleanliness and health. The exterior of the
house itself was well enough, but alack for the approaches and the interior! Plunging through
mud I reached the door, and, glancing through the window, descried the inevitable pig inside
the kitchen. The people--to be just to them--seemed a little fluttered, if not ashamed, of
the plight in which I found them. It was quite evident that since the new 80l. house was built
not a drop of water had been expended on its interior. The wooden staircase leading to the
bedrooms aloft was in such condition that I shuddered to touch its sticky surface, the floor
so filthy that I instinctively gathered up the skirts of my overcoat, the bedsteads filled
up with blankets and odds and ends of unimaginable shades of dirt colour.

Yet this apparently poverty-stricken home was already subdivided in defiance of the conditions
of tenancy. The eldest daughter had been married some little time without the landlord or bailiff
finding it out, and there was the bridegroom established in half of the house and endowed with
half of the farm. He was at home too; a huge black-browed fellow, doing nothing at all, after
the manner of his kind. And this was the outcome of an attempt to distribute the Valentians
in holdings of respectable size and to make them live in houses instead of hovels. Two families
were already established in the place of one, and the house was already like unto a stye. The
inhabitants, however, were mighty civil when they recovered from their surprise, and spoke
well of their landlord and of everybody connected with him, especially of the ladies of his
family, who had done much to find paying employment for the girls by getting them a market
for knitted and other needlework.

Pursuing my cruise in a Growler round the coast I came past some magnificent scenery by Waterville,
at the head of Ballinskelligs Bay to Derrynane, once the abode of the "Liberator," and now
occupied by Mr. Daniel O'Connell, his grandson, who gave me a curious instance of the profit
to be realised on a dairy and grazing farm. He has leased the island of Scariff from Lord Dunraven
for 60l. per annum, has put a dairyman upon it, and sells off of it yearly produce, butter,
cattle, sheep, wool, and pigs, to the value of 230l., the valuation of the island, according
to Griffith, being, including the dairyman's house 27l. 5s. Mr. O'Connell also gave me an odd
proof of the retribution which appears likely to fall upon the landowners of the barony of Iveragh.

When the Government valuation was first made public it was protested against by Sir James O'Connell,
who succeeded in getting it reduced by 30 per cent., an unfortunate circumstance for the present
proprietors if the Land League continue to have it all their own way. The League, however,
has not yet troubled Derrynane; the tenants, who since 1841 have been greatly reduced in number
by emigration and the consolidation of holdings, have paid their rent fairly up to this, that
is to say fairly according to the usage of that remote part of Kerry. They average "the grass
of six cows," with the run of the mountain, "for rather more" collops or young cows, not yet
in milk.

Derrynane rejoices in many memorials of the Liberator, but the relic of "Ould Dan" that all
visitors, and especially Irishmen, are most anxious to see, is in the oblong mahogany box lying
on the tall desk at which he was wont to stand and write. It is that article of furniture without
which no Irish gentleman's equipment was more complete than his house without an avenue. "My
pistols which I shot Captain Marker," as poor Rawdon Crawley put it. There reposes peacefully
enough now by the side of its companion, the weapon with which the "Liberator" shot Mr. D'Esterre.
It is a flint lock pistol of very large bore, and with stock reaching to the muzzle. One peculiarity
about this pistol is worthy of note. Beneath the trigger guard a piece of steel extends curving
downwards and outwards towards the muzzle, a convenient device, as I find, for steadying the
weapon by aid of the second finger. On the stock is cut rudely a capital D., for D'Esterre.
There are no other marks, although the pistols have a pedigree and a story attached to them.

One day an English officer stationed in Ireland found himself in the painful position of waiting
for remittances. Knowing nobody likely to be useful to him he appealed to the most noteworthy
Irishman of his day, and stating his pressing need, asked him to lend him 50l. until his funds
came to hand. Daniel O'Connell, who was a keen judge of character, lent him the money without
hesitation, and was shortly repaid, with many expressions of gratitude. About a year afterwards
the Englishman was ordered on a foreign station, and, unwilling to leave Ireland without giving
some tangible expression of his thankfulness to O'Connell, called upon him and presented him
with the duelling pistols in question, which were accepted as heartily as the money was lent.
On taking his leave the Englishman said, "If you should ever have occasion to use these pistols
you will find them very good ones; they have already killed ten men." The first and only time
"Ould Dan" used them he killed Mr. D'Esterre, to whose family, it must be added, he afterwards
did all he could to atone for that injury.

Mr. O'Connell also showed me a brass blunderbuss once the property of Robert Emmet. It has
a revolving chamber, which, instead of turning automatically, must be adjusted by hand after
every shot, a curious forerunner of Colt's invention, adaptation, or revival. Derrynane is
delightfully situated at a spot called appropriately "White Strand," from the silvery sand
washed by the Atlantic waves. Above it stands the celebrated circular fort of Staigue, built
of dry stone, and with an inclined plane inside like those at West Cove and Ballycarbery. Opposite
is the magnificent rocky peninsula of Lamb Head, the road across which much resembles parts
of St. Gothard, plus the magnificent sea shining in the sun.

The crag of Lamb Head, broken into a thousand jagged slopes, is here and there overgrown with
short sweet herbage. Wherever grass grows there will a Kerry calf or "collop" be found. How
the pretty little black cattle cling like flies to those dizzy windy heights is marvellous;
but there they are, night and day, for months at a stretch, giving no trouble to anybody, growing
into condition ready for "finishing" on richer pasture, and giving life and beauty to a scene
which would, without them, be but grandly desolate. The little Kerries are greatly prized as
"milkers," and they yield good beef, but very little of it--not more than four hundredweight
per beast. By the side of the superb shorthorns of the Ardfert herd they look like goats; but
such cattle as Mr. Crosbie's cream-coloured bull are only suited to richer pasture than the
rocks of Lamb Head. It may also be added that for the purpose of dairy-farms the best commercial
cows are all bred between the rough native cattle and shorthorns, or between Devon and Ayrshire,
the latter cross being specially liked by Mr. Hegarty, of Mill Street, county Cork, referred
to in a previous letter, and by many other good judges. This fact, however, by no means detracts
from the value of such a magnificent herd as that of Mr. Crosbie. On the contrary it is held
by many experts that first-class shorthorn bulls are a necessity for preventing the cross-bred
animals from reverting to the original local type.

The improvement in cattle in Kerry, owing to the importation of shorthorns by Mr. Crosbie,
and in a smaller degree by other proprietors, is very marked; but despite this the thoroughbred
Kerry still remains and is likely to remain lord of the mountain until mayhap he be displaced
by the smaller Scotch cattle, as he has already been in some localities by the black-faced
sheep, who leads an equally hardy and independent life until wanted for "finishing."

From Derrynane the road passes along the coast, and through Sneem to Derryquin, the estate
of that typical landlord, Mr. F.C. Bland, beyond whose lands lie those of Mr. Mahony, of Dromore,
the apostle of concrete and author of a pamphlet which has made a great noise in Ireland, and
is accepted by "improving" landlords as stating their case perfectly. Mr. Bland, whose domain
lies on the north side of the embouchure of the Kenmare River, owns about thirty-eight square
miles of territory, and is one of the most popular men in Kerry. Extraordinary stories are
told of him. "Know 'um, begorra," answered a native to my query, "Don't I know 'um; and it
is he that's the good man, your honour, and every man and baste will do anything for 'um, and
he has got tame lobsthers that sit up to be fed, and a tame salmon that follows 'um about like
a dog."

This, to say the least, appeared an ample statement; but I confess the temptation to see the
man who owned contented tenants and tame fish was too strong to be overcome, and I therefore
procured an introduction to Mr. Bland, who with great modesty promised to show me his improvements
on condition that I would also look over those of that arch improver his neighbour, Mr. Mahony.
To appraise the real value of the work done by these two gentlemen at Derryquin and Dromore--a
region of some eighty-five square miles altogether--it must be understood that forty years
ago this part of Kerry was, with the exception of the main track to Cork, absolutely without
roads, an almost impassable tract of wild mountain and morass cut up by streams, which when
swollen stopped all communication even for foot passengers. Yet it was inhabited by a considerable
population paying rent, sometimes, for the mountain farms, to which they carried their store
of meal on their backs.

It is said that the father of Mr. Bland went to his first school in a pannier, a stone being
put in the opposite one to steady the load on the ass's back. This was the "good old-time,"
when few of the people could speak English, none could read or write, all spun their wool and
made their bread at home, and none dreamed of opposing "the master's will." Fortunately they
were in good hands, for Mr. Bland went to work, at first gently and afterwards more swiftly,
at the task of making land and people more civilised than had been thought possible up to his
time. During thirty years he has laid out 7,000l. of his own and 10,000l. of Government money
in bringing his estate and people somewhat into consonance with modern ideas. He has made twenty-three
miles of road, built thirty stone houses with slated or tiled roofs, and three schools. When
the estate came into his hands there was not a cart upon it except at Derryquin itself. Now
two-thirds of the tenants have carts and horses. Forty years ago the entire export and import
trade was done by a carrier who came from Cork once a month and was looked for as anxiously
as the periodical steamer at a station on the West Coast of Africa. Now there are carriers
weekly in all directions, and steamboats calling regularly in Kenmare Bay. All this work has
been compassed by the landlord, with the partial assistance of the Government, with the exception
of one solitary house, which was built by the tenant.

The story of Mr. Bland's tame fish, which "sat up, and followed him about like a dog," turns
out to have had some foundation in fact. There is a fine pool of salt water at Derryquin (Ang.
"Oakslope") Castle, which stands on the edge of Kenmare Bay; and this pool not long since held
a number of tame fish, which came to be fed when anybody approached, just as carp do in many
well-known places. Unluckily, however, a neighbouring otter found this out, and carried away
the unfortunate fish at the rate of two every night till not a single fish is left. I hear
that both salmon and pollock became equally tame, but that the former, although eating everything
offered them, became miserably poor in a comparatively short time. The only denizen of the
pool that I actually saw was a lobster, who came out from under a stone as I approached, in
the hope, I was told, that I was going to give him a mussel.

Mr. Bland, however, if he has not proved so redoubtable a fishtamer as my original informant
opined, has proved very successful in oyster culture. Having a little salt-water inlet, with
a river running into it, he conceived the idea of breeding and raising oysters, but found the
climate bad for "spatting," and now buys his tiny young oysters by the ten thousand at the
Isle of Rhé, and puts them down in long perforated boxes on his oyster beds. When they are
between three and four years old he consigns them to a correspondent at Ballyvaughan, who puts
them in, I believe, deep-sea oyster beds for a while and converts them into the famous Burren
oysters, which, like the Marenne oysters, are generally preferred by Englishmen to "Natives,"
while the "spat" of the latter is eagerly sought by the French for development into Huitres
d'Ostende.

It rained so furiously at Derryquin that I hardly saw so much of Mr. Bland's estate as I could
have wished, but between the showers I was able to form a fair idea of his building and road
improvement. It is a matter of pride to the proprietor that on a territory once impassable
by a wheeled vehicle he can now drive to every farm in a carriage and pair, and that among
tenants averaging "the grass of six cows" apiece; men and women at least speak English, and
children go to school. The barbarous state of the country and inhabitants forty years ago may
be gathered from the following anecdote. Two gentlemen were out shooting on the mountain and
were driven by a "Kerry shower"--which is as much like a cataract as anything I know of--into
a peasant's cabin. The man received them with all the dignity and self-possession peculiar
to the best of his class, and when the storm cleared off invited them to eat with him on their
return from the hillside. When they came back, expecting only potatoes and butter, they were
astounded to see their host take several pieces of some kind of meat out of the pot and place
them on the table, for there were no plates before them. It turned out that the mysterious
meat was that of a newly-born calf whose dam was yet lying helpless in a corner of the cabin.
The man was quite unconscious that there was anything objectionable in the dreadful food, and
offered it to "the masthers" with perfect grace, and without the slightest pang at the costliness
of the banquet. He had given the best and only meat he had to his guests. Like the Italian
gentleman with his falcon, or rather the Arab sheik with his horse, who, my friend Mr. Browning
tells me, is the original of Boccaccio's mamby-pamby story, the Kerry mountaineer had fulfilled
the rites of hospitality at whatever cost. For long after the date of the grim repast just
recorded, in fact, even till to-day, the peasants on the Derryquin estate have been accustomed
to refer their almost innumerable wrangles and squabbles to the decision of "the masther,"
who might be figured as a kind of Hibernian St. Louis, sitting under a tree, and adjudicating
between his subjects. Sometimes it was not very easy to arrive at a decision. Not very long
ago a man came with a complaint that his once-intended son-in-law had behaved shabbily and
fraudulently. It appeared that the father of the girl had agreed with the "boy" that a cow
should be killed "to furnish forth the marriage table;" that the father should provide the
cow for the happy day, and that the cost of the animal should be shared between them. The cow
had been killed, and the bride had been dressed, but the Kerry "county Guy" had not been forthcoming,
that mercenary youth having married out of hand another girl with four more cows to her fortune
than the one he was engaged to. Hereat the outraged parent demanded, not that he should pay
damages for breach of promise, but his share of the cost of the cow. "And," said the masther,
"you had the cow and the daughter thrown on your hands?" "Divil a throw, your honour," was
the reply; "mee daughter got another husband in tin minutes, begorra, and we ate the cow, your
honour; but Mike is a blackgyard, and should pay his half of the cow, your honour." This was
a knotty case, but his "honour" decided that Mike should pay his share, and, to do that fickle
bridegroom justice, he paid up with very little demurring. He was clearly three cows and a
half the better by his bargain, and, I believe, lives happily to this day. It is needless to
say that he has numerous children.

Mr. Bland has under his paternal rule about 300 agricultural tenants besides the villagers
of Sneem, who mostly have lots lying contiguous to, or at some little distance from, their
houses. The holdings, albeit averaging the grass of six cows, vary very considerably in size
and quality. Thus one farmer holds 803 acres, or "the grass of twenty-four cows," with mountain
run attached, at a rent of 35l., while another who has 1,493 acres is only charged 26l. for
"the grass of seventeen cows," with proportionate mountain. Even on holdings of this size,
as well as on others of less value, such as 250 acres at a rent of 13l. 15s., Mr. Bland has
experienced great difficulty in inducing the tenants to bear any share of the cost of building
and other improvements. Of course there are tenants and tenants at Derryquin, as elsewhere,
but the general feeling has undoubtedly been averse to paying an extra percentage for improvements.
Mr. Bland has done what he could, but has rarely found anybody inclined to pay more than 2
per cent., and one irreconcilable actually refused to pay 1l. a year extra to have a 70l. house
built for him. The "masther" appears to take a view of the subject which might have been with
great advantage more widely distributed among Irish proprietors of the improving sort. It is
not extravagant to ask a farmer with the nominal grass of twenty cows, and a mountain run on
which he grazes twice as many bullocks, to pay 5 per cent. on 80l. or 100l. as the rent of
a good and substantial house; but it is preposterous to ask the holder of a ten-acre lot to
do likewise. Such peasants should, as I observed in one of my early letters, not be called
farmers at all. Their condition is about equal to that of the English farm labourer. When the
landlord can afford to build better cottages for them than they now have, he should certainly
not expect more than 1, or at best 2 per cent. for his outlay, and carry the balance to his
profit and loss account, after the manner of English landowners of the best class. The Derryquin
houses or cottages are very well built and excellently planned; they are also very pretty with
their whitewashed walls, red tile roofs, and doors painted red to match. These patches of bright
colour give extraordinary cheerfulness to a landscape otherwise of green, brown, and grey,
looking cold enough under a weeping sky. The walls are of stone, "dashed" after the Irish fashion
with mortar or concrete, and slate roofs have now given place to red tiles in fancy patterns.
Inside they are divided into two rooms on the ground floor, paved with concrete, and two sleeping
rooms above, in order, if possible, to keep the people from huddling together at night. It
is a fact, impossible as it may appear, that when the pretty and tasteful lodge at the gate
of Derryquin was first built, the occupants, four in number, all slept together in one room
rather than be separated at night, and were only induced to occupy the apartments built to
prevent this habit by the threat of eviction. I might have doubted this amazing story had I
not seen the condition of a cottage rebuilt recently on an old foundation at a cost of 60l.,
for which a rent of 1l. is charged. The tenant fought hard against the innovation, and yielded
to the imposition of 1l. a year, and a clean new house, only under fear of being turned off
the estate. He and his have only been in the new building for a few weeks, but they have made
wild work of it already. In the room to the left of the door a "bonneva," or half-grown pig
of the size called a "shote," in the State of Georgia, was disporting himself by looking on
at a girl spinning wool, a "boy" doing nothing, and two dirty youngsters wallowing on the floor.
In the other brand new room, not long since left sweet and tidy by the builders, were piled
an immense heap of turf and a great store of potatoes, over against which stood a bedstead
and a pair of boots. There was nothing else in the room, not the slightest fragment of table
or chair, not a sign of water or washing utensils; in the room above were also bedsteads, without
anything that could be called bedding, and no other stick of furniture. Before the front door
was a rough stone causeway, already ankle-deep in filth. Close up to the rear of the house
was a dung-heap of portentous size and savour. Evidently this was a case of taking the horse
to the water and being unable to make him drink, for the people thrust into a clean house were
obviously doing their best to bring it into harmony with their own views. I heard also of a
remarkable case of subdivision on the part of some labourers on Mr. Bland's estate, higher
up on the mountain. A couple or three years ago two "boys" received permission to occupy a
cabin on a little patch of land. This spot has since grown into a colony. The "boys" have both
got married, and have children. Their brothers-in-law also, with wives and children, as a matter
of course, have built their cabins against the original one given to the two bachelors, and
the holding has a population of forty-five souls. These poor people are surely the most affectionate
in the world, and the uproar when any one of the colony is ailing is astonishing, and bewildering
to more civilised and perhaps colder-blooded folk.

Mr. R. Mahony's estate of Dromore (Anglice "Big Ridge") is the theatre of even more extensive
improvements than those of Derryquin. Mr. Mahony has 29,163 acres in Kerry, valued by Griffith
at 3,071l. In his pamphlet he states:--"In the year 1851 I came into possession of my estate.
Old rentals in my possession show that for many years previous to that date there had been
allowances made to tenants at the rate of about 1,000l. per annum. Yet when I took up the estate
there was not one drain made by a tenant, not one slated house, not a perch of road, not a
yard of sub-soiled land. I then adopted the system of making all improvements myself, charging
interest of the outlay upon the occupier according to the circumstances and increased value
of the farm. The result has been that in five-and-twenty years I have built about eighty houses
and offices slated or tiled, made twenty-eight miles of road, built nine bridges, made twenty-three
miles of fences, thoroughly drained about five hundred acres, planted one hundred and fifty
acres of waste land, and proportionately improved the condition and circumstances of the people."

There is abundant evidence of Mr. Mahony's work on his estate, which is not only valuable in
itself but as an example. The roads are admirably laid, and the employment of concrete made
of Portland cement and the sand and pebbles of the seashore, since followed at Ardfert, was
initiated at Dromore. Walls, floors, partitions, are all of concrete, and the roofs of the
houses last built of handsome red tiles. The disposition of the apartments in the Dromore cottages
varies somewhat from that of the neighbouring estate. The principal room, or kitchen, has nothing
above it but the high-pitched roof, lined with wood tastefully disposed. The remaining three
apartments are two on the ground floor, a tiny parlour and convenient bedroom, and one full-sized
bedroom above. Separate cow-houses and pigsties are also appended to each cottage. So far as
can be judged from a hurried visit, many of the houses are very well and tidily kept; in fact,
so treated as not to destroy hope in the future of the Irish peasant cultivator, although this
trimness is by no means so general as it might be. Mr. Mahony has also, by way of showing his
people how things should be done, a model farm and dairy, of such moderate size as not to be
beyond the ambition of a successful tenant. The proprietor has also, like Mr. Bland and Mr.
Butler, of Waterville, a successful salmon fishery, great part of the produce whereof goes,
at some little advance on sixpence per pound, to the agents of a London firm, who also get
an enormous supply of mushrooms from county Kerry.

There is a greatly-improved property in county Cork, lying west of Macroom and south of Mill
Street. This is Ballyvourney, one of the estates of Sir George St. John Colthurst, of Ardrum,
whose father laid out an immense sum in reclaiming a portion of the 25,000 acres, which bring
him in about 5,000l. per annum.

There are other landlords in the counties of Cork and Kerry who, like Mr. Bence Jones, have
done well by their land; but there is no occasion to multiply experiences of a similar character.
The purpose of my Kerry excursion was to observe the Kerry peasant when he had been left to
himself, and where he had been looked after, and perhaps governed, by a landlord whose interest
in him had not been diminished by recent legislation. My impression is very much the same as
that produced by my visit to Connemara, that the peasant requires firm as well as gentle handling,
and that his emancipation from the control of his landlord should be accompanied by some other
authority representing the State, and interfering to prevent the tendency to local congestion
of population.

The Kerry peasant's qualities are in the main good, and he is upheld under difficulties by
hopefulness almost equal to his vanity and habit of exaggeration. A Kerry man's boat is a ship,
his cabin is a house, his shrubs are trees, his "boreen" is an avenue, and, as a native bard
declares, "all his hens are paycocks." He may be briefly described as in morals correct, disposition
kindly, manners excellent, customs filthy. It is, however, despite his hopefulness, difficult
to find any trace of that gaiety for which he was formerly famous, whether justly or not. His
amusements outside the calm of Derrynane, Derryquin, and Dromore, appear to be cattle fairs,
whisky, and sedition. At times he is unconsciously humorous, as in the story of the Duchess
of Marlborough's Indian meal distributed for the relief of the poor during the hard time of
last winter. A gentleman, who ought to know better, was buying some potheen, or illicit whisky,
of the maker. "Now, Pat," said he, "I hope this lot is better than the last." "And, your honour,"
was the reply, "the last was but the name of whisky. Begorra, it's the Duchess's meal as makes
mighty poor potheen." This was said quite seriously and with an injured air. For there is no
merriment in Kerry. The old dances at the cross roads are danced no more. The pipe of the piper
is played out.

XVII.

"BOYCOTTED" AT CHRISTMASTIDE.

KILFINANE, CO. LIMERICK, Christmas Eve.

The fox-terrier sits blinking on the hearth-rug in the pretty drawing-room as nightfall approaches,
and a servant appears with a message that a woman has come with a big cake from Mrs. O'Blank,
a sympathising neighbour. There is no mistake about the size and condition of the cake; it
is a yard and a quarter in circumference; it has a shining holiday face, like that of the fabled
pigs who ran about ready roasted, covered with delicately-browned "crackling," perfumed with
sage and onions, and carrying huge bowls of apple-sauce in their mouths. As the pigs cried,
"Come and eat me," so does the cake appeal, but in more subtle manner, to the instincts and
nostrils of all present. It has that pleasant scent with it peculiar to newly-baked plumcake.
Huge plums, which have worked their way perseveringly to the surface, wink invitingly, and,
above all, the cake is hot, gloriously hot, besides having with it a delicate zest of contraband
acquired by being smuggled on to the premises under Biddy M'Carthy's shawl.

Biddy has watched the moment when the "boys" on the watch--scowling ruffians by the same token--had
gone in quest of tea or more potent refreshment, and has slipped from the avenue which runs
past the house instead of up to it, by the lodge gate and up to the door in that spirit-like
fashion peculiar to this part of Ireland. When they wish to do so, the people appear to spring
out of the ground. Two minutes before the monotony of existence is broken by a fight there
will not be a soul to be seen, but no sooner is it discovered that some unlucky wight is in
present receipt of a "big bating" than hundreds appear on the spot, and struggle for a "vacancy,"
like the lame piper who howled for the same at the "murthering" of a bailiff.

This ghost-like faculty, however, has served us right well, for I need not speculate upon what
would have happened to Mrs. M'Carthy (whose real name is not given for obvious reasons) if
she had been discovered carrying a huge cake to a house under ban. She would not have been
injured bodily; no soul in Kilfinane would have touched the cake, much less have eaten the
hateful food made and baked and attempted to be carried to the stronghold of the "tyrant";
but it would have gone ill with the brave little woman nevertheless. Her husband would have
been compelled to seek elsewhere for a livelihood, for neither farmer nor tradesman would dare
to employ either him or her. Her elder children would have been pointed at as they went to
school, and sent to Coventry while there; and she would have been refused milk for the younger
ones. Not a potato nor a pound of meal nor an egg could she have bought all through the hamlet;
and if people at a distance had sold her anything, they would have been intercepted and compelled
to take it back again. The carriers would not have delivered to or taken parcels from her;
she would, in fact, have been very much in the condition that Eve, according to Lord Byron,
thought she could put Cain into by cursing him.

Fortunately, however, the cake-bearer has escaped, and we fall with keen appetites upon the
not very digestible banquet she has provided. The blockade has been successfully run, and we
celebrate the event accordingly. We are not so very badly off after all, and in fact have passed
a by no means dull time for the last two days. It is not quite so easy to frighten our garrison
as a pack of sympathising peasants who attempt no kind of resistance against the mysterious
leaders of the Jacquerie. The son of the house and his two grown cousins are here, the butler
and gardener still remain staunch, as well as the coachman and a couple of bailiffs living
outside, all "Boycotted" also. Moreover, we have a cook and housemaid with us, and two members
of the Royal Constabulary. We have busy times, too. So far as turkeys, geese, chickens, and
eggs, butter and bacon are concerned, we have enough and to spare within protecting range of
rifle and revolver, but for fresh beef and mutton and flour we must depend upon Cork. Now the
mysterious agent in Cork who sends us the supplies cannot get them carried nearer to the house
than the railway station at Kilmallock, the interesting little town at which one of the county
members keeps the inn and "runs" the cars, a fact whereof the citizens are not a little proud.
When we receive the news, letter or telegram, announcing that meat or other stores will arrive
by a certain train, we drive down to meet it, and without the slightest assistance, for not
a single gloomy by-stander would do us a hand's turn, we carry it off to our own car, and thanks
to the awe inspired by army revolvers, Winchester rifles, one constable on the car, and those
officially at the railway station, bring our property away.

A day since there was great excitement concerning the arrival of a daughter of the house, who
was coming down to keep house for the "boys" whose guest I am. Her brother and one of her cousins
went down on the car to meet her, armed as usual, for although they would be comparatively
safe with a lady on the car, they ran considerable risk until she was actually on board. The
train came, but not the young lady, and as it was broad daylight her well-armed escort came
back again. Towards the hour for the arrival of the evening train there was more anxiety. It
was dark, but it was absolutely necessary to go down to Kilmallock again, on the off chance
that she might have come later than was expected, and had forgotten to telegraph. If she had
arrived and nobody had been there to meet her, the consequences would have been awkward. She
would not, it is true, have been exposed to the slightest insult, for except in the case of
Miss Gardiner, of Farmhill, I believe Irishmen have never forgotten their natural gallantry
so much as to insult, much less shoot at and wound, a lady. There would, therefore, have been
no fear of violence; but it is very doubtful whether anybody would have removed her trunks
from the spot on which they had been laid down. Most assuredly no cardriver would have dared
to drive her home, and I question if any house in Kilmallock would have afforded her shelter.
However, she did not come by the train after all, and the "boys" drove back, not without an
Irish howl to keep them company on the road.

Dinner over, the company being composed of the three "boys" and the writer, who among them
made short work of a plump turkey and a vigorous inroad on a round of beef, besides disposing
of soups, sweets, and sherry--not a bad menu under "Boycotting" rules--we, after seeing that
the front door was properly barred, bolted, and chained, and the iron-linked shutters, relics
of the Fenian time, made equally secure, adjourned to the kitchen for a smoke, a common practice
in this part of Ireland. The kitchen, with its red-tiled floor, is a capital smoking room,
warm and cosy, and while tobacco is leisurely puffed, and that eternal subject, "the state
of the country," discussed, the eye reposes complacently on the treasures suspended from the
hooks on the ceiling, plump hams and sides of well-fed bacon giving assurance that the garrison
is far from being reduced to extremities. But there are in the kitchen other objects less suggestive
of festivity. On the round table by the central column supporting the kitchen roof lie sundry
revolvers, and nearer one of the windows a couple of repeating rifles and the double-barrelled
carbines of the constabulary. Two members of that well-grown and well set-up corps are seated
at a corner of the dresser, deeply engrossed in the intricacies of the mysterious game of forty-five,
before which the mind of the dull Saxon remains bewildered in hopeless incapacity. Presently
the well-thumbed pack is laid aside, and one of the constables addresses himself to the task
of closing and barring up the shutters, thus shutting out all chance of any present being picked
off by a shot through the window, as was done when Miss Gardiner was wounded under somewhat
similar circumstances.

There is a great deal of gossip concerning the "Boycotting" of Mr. Bence Jones, and that of
the most recent victim, The Macgillicuddy of the Reeks, whose family is well known to all present;
but even the one engrossing subject wears itself out at last. One cannot attain any wild pitch
of hilarity among bolts and bars and Winchester rifles. Nobody appears to care for any stories
but such as bear upon the present troubles and the Fenian affair in 1867. At Kilmallock there
is no sign of song or dance; no talk of pantomimes, and what jokes are made bear grim reference
to troubles actually endured and possible troubles to come.

By day it is by no means dreary. To begin with, the house is built on a charming spot six miles
distant from a railway station; in front and beyond the lawn is a pretty little lake broken
up by islands, making a tender foreground for the Galtee and nearer mountains. From the opposite
side the view is equally delightful, the hills being crowned with trees and brushwood, an unusual
sight in Ireland. Down the slope of the immense saddle-backed range lie fields of the brightest
green, divided by banks and hedges delightful to look at after the grim stone walls of Mayo,
Galway, and Clare. From behind these grassy slopes peeps the purple crest of the distant mountains,
giving grandeur to a scene which might otherwise have been deemed tame. The climate, although
chilled by recent heavy rains, is deliciously soft, and the breeze has none of that incisive
quality common to the more northern hills. It is needless to say that at sunrise there is no
chance of meeting any watchers of the "Boycotting" brigade. At seven o'clock any quantity of
cargo might be "run" into the beleaguered citadel; but so for that matter can anything one
likes be done at noon, under sufficient escort. When nothing is to be carried there is not
the slightest occasion for escort in Kilfinane itself, although the attitude of the people
is hostile in the extreme. Going for a stroll with the nephew of the absent "master," I am
recommended to put a pistol in my pocket, and, much against the grain, do so.

I must confess that I draw a line at agents. Alone I should not dream of going about armed,
although "indignation meetings" have been held to denounce me for speaking the truth and believing
my own eyes, and I consider myself quite safe while in the company of many landlords. But agents
are another matter. There is while with them always the off chance of something untoward turning
up, and it is, perhaps, as well to be prepared for emergencies. Personally I must confess that
I am favourably disposed towards the much vilified agents. They are in many respects the most
manly men in Ireland. Nearly always well-bred, they excite sympathy by the position they hold
between the upper and nether millstone of landlord and tenant. Perhaps they have made a good
thing of it, but if so they have earned it, for their position always reminds one of that assigned
by Lord Macaulay to the officers of the East India Company, such as Olive and Warren Hastings.
To these founders of our Eastern Empire "John Company" said, "Respect treaties; keep faith
with native rulers; do not oppress the people; but send us money."

This is exactly what easy-going Irish absentee proprietors preach--"Don't hurt my tenants;
don't make my name to stink in the land; above all, let there be no evictions among my people;
but send me a couple of thousand pounds before Monday, or remit me at least one thousand to
Nice some time next week.--Yours, The O'Martingale." This, I take it, has been the situation
for the last quarter of a century, since the younger sons of Irish families took to land agency
as a profession because there seemed nothing else in Ireland for them to do. Nevertheless they
are hideously unpopular, and I like to be armed when I take a stroll with them in a lonely
country district.

So we walk down to Kilfinane to look after the progress made in arranging quarters for the
soldiers presently expected, some fifty odd redcoats or rifles as the authorities may decide.
It is instructive to observe the demeanour of the people towards us. My companion formerly
lived at Kilfinane, and took his share of the work there, but he was the first of his family
"Boycotted," and was obliged to take up his quarters in his uncle's house. Not a blacksmith
could be found to shoe his horse, and not a living creature to cook his food; so a forge belonging
to the mounted division of the Royal Irish Constabulary was sent down for the horse, and the
master of that interesting animal went up to the big house to eat and sleep, and the "Boycotters"
were, so far, brought to nought. But the good folk of Kilfinane eye us terribly askant, or,
to be more literally exact, do not eye us at all; at least, their eyes betray "no speculation."
Had I driven in from Charleville alone I might have gossipped with all the idlers of the village,
but now that I am walking with a "Boycotted" person I seem to have become invisible. A few
men are on the side walks--a few women at their doors--but they either look at us as if we
were transparent as panes of glass, or suddenly become interested in their boots or finger
nails, both which would be better for more regular attention. The children run away and hide
themselves as if a brace of megalosauri or other happily extinct monsters had crawled out of
the bog and come into Kilfinane to look for a meal. It is altogether a strange experience.
It dawns upon me that the man who has driven me over from Charleville might issue from the
hotel and ask for my orders, but he does not.

The edifice wherein he has established himself, his vehicle and horses, is of a bright salmon
colour, rejoiceful to the eyes of the natives. My driver, on being asked at my arrival, greatly
preferred the rude freedom and plenty of this pink hostelry to the supposed narrow rations
of a house under ban. Possibly he loves the ruddy-faced village inn on account of its affinity
in hue to that of his own visage, in which nose and beard contend fiercely for pre-eminence
in warmth of tone. But be this as it may, he is just now giving warmth and colour to the interior
of the establishment, instead of trying to catch my eye as I go past.

There is absolutely no sign of life or movement in the "Salmon Arms," or "The Rose," or whatever
its name may be. Thus we stride down the street of Kilfinane in lonely grandeur till we come
to the schoolmaster's house, to be presently converted with the schools into a barrack. Schoolmaster
and wife are being temporarily evicted to make room for the military, in whose behalf a quantity
of work is being done, not surely by the "Boycotters," who have already determined to "Boycott"
the soldiers as far as they can by refusing to let a car carry a single article from the railway
station. The military when they arrive and give that sense of security attached to a redcoat
in Ireland, will be obliged to bring every kind of vehicle and transport animal with them.

In the cabbage garden of the school-house I meet an old acquaintance, Sub-Inspector Fraser,
of the Royal Irish Constabulary, who seems to enjoy a monopoly of posts in which the roughest
kind of "constabulary duty is to be done." Whether he esteems his "lot a happy one" I do not
know; but at any rate, he looks hearty and healthy enough upon it, and is mightily cheerful
withal. He has finished off one tough job, for it was Mr. Fraser who was left at Pallas on
the great day when horse, foot, and artillery smote the combined "Three and four year olds,"
or, rather, would have smitten them if they had been so misguided as to show fight. I have
already recorded how the Palladians on that memorable occasion displayed a keen appreciation
of the better part of valour, and I also marked my surprise that after it had taken "the fut
and the dthragoons in shquadrons and plathoons," and "the boys who fear no noise" to boot,
to bring the "makings" of a police hut from the railway station, where they lay "Boycotted,"
to Bourke's farm, twenty-five constables should have been judged a sufficiently imposing force
to overawe the Palladians and to build the hut. But I hear that Mr. Fraser's slender army proved
quite sufficient for its purpose, and that the hut is not only built, but very well built,
and likely to vex the souls of the Palladians for some time to come. There is plenty of work
to do in getting ready for the soldiers. Masons and carpenters are hard at work--that is to
say, as hard as anybody ever works in this part of Ireland.

On the dairy farms, which form the principal "industry"--save the mark!--of this rich part
of the country, the life of the male kind is of the laziest imaginable. Employing girls to
milk the cows and make the butter, the farmer appears to me to do nothing whatever except go
to market and drink himself into a disaffected, discontented condition. He is rarely visible
before ten or eleven o'clock in the morning, except on market days, and he appears to smoke
and dawdle most of his time away. Just now he broods over his wrongs, and declares he "will
have his own again," whatever that may signify. He says he is enormously over-rented. Perhaps
he is; but I cannot forget that it is not many years since he and his neighbours in the adjacent
county of Tipperary boasted that they had brought about an equitable adjustment of values by
an ingenious process invented by themselves--that of "shooting down the rents." Have they gone
up since under maleficent Saxon coercion? Verily, I do not know; for the faith I put in estimates
and valuations, not excepting "The Book of Griffith," is but small.

Information in Ireland depends entirely on the person who "infawrrrums" one, and is rarely
complete. Almost everybody seems to think that an inquirer has some object to serve, and they
either tell him what they think will amuse him or advance their own interest if it be repeated;
but there are notable exceptions to this as to all other Irish rules.

Chatting easily, we stroll back through Kilfinane, bewailing the sternness of military rule,
which keeps officers and men together, and will not permit of the principal coming warriors
being quartered at Spa-hill. On one point we are most anxious, and that is, that the troops
shall be in Kilfinane by Christmas-day, to the end that the gaiety proper to the British Army
should enliven the "Boycotted" establishment at dinner time; while the imposing presence of
Thomas Atkins should overawe the village mutineers, and bring grist to the proprietor of the
Couleur de Rose Hotel. As evening gathers in we sit down drowsily to listen to the loud ticking
of the clock and drink a glass of sherry to the health of "all poor and distressed Boycottees"
within her Majesty's "sometime kingdom of Ireland." Soothed by sherry, incipient sleep, and
the subtle influence of the season, the little garrison of Spa-hill gradually waxes benevolent,
until one of its number actually suggests that a fat goose should be sent to the proximate
cause of all its woes, Father Sheehy. Even as a big loaf of bread was once thrown into an enemy's
camp, at one moment this spirited proposition is nearly carried, but it breaks down before
the remark that the coachman, gardener, and two bailiffs are "Boycotted," bringing up the total
number to about thirty-six, and that geese would be better distributed among these than flung
away on the enemy; and the clock goes on to tick, the ticking growing louder and louder, and
then comes the harsh, grating sound of shooting bolts and the clank of the chain on the front door.

There is some pretence on the part of one of my young hosts of going into his uncle's office
and drawing a lease, until he is reminded that he will probably be performing a work of supererogation,
that leases and feudalism and property are going out of date, and that the land agents of the
future, if suffered to cumber the earth at all, will be elected by the tenants, as the New
York magistrates are elected by the persons whom they will be called upon to judge. And the
clock ticks and the fox-terrier whines in his sleep. He is dreaming of rats, perhaps. It is
pleasant to dream, even if one is a dog.

A sudden start. The long-looked-for telegram has come announcing the arrival of the daughter
of the house shortly at Kilmallock Station. There is another skirmish for rifles, rugs, and
revolvers, and a sally out of the fortress. No sooner has the brave young lady arrived, who
with her brother and cousin, and perhaps the representatives of the British army, will form
the Christmas dinner-party, than she draws up a bill of fare, which includes, as well as turkey,
ham, and plum pudding, lobsters brought from afar, thanks to feminine foresight. The retainers
will feast on mighty joints of beef and on plum pudding galore. And now another telegram--The
troops will arrive before the bells ring in Christmas-day.

As I approach the end of my letter, it occurs to me that although the place, events, and persons
described would be recognised by anybody living in the counties of Limerick, Cork, or Tipperary,
this account might appear to English readers rather as an imaginative and highly-coloured picture,
painted for the Christmas market from a number of models, than as a simple sketch in neutral
greys as exactly and faithfully drawn as is possible to the writer. To prevent any such misapprehension,
I will observe that the events which I describe as occurring before me, have all taken place
within forty-eight hours in and near the house of Mr. Townsend, of Spa-hill, Kilfinane, county
Limerick, and are telegraphed from Limerick city to the Daily News, because there was no nearer
or more convenient office from which to send so long a message. Mr. Uniacke Townsend is one
of a large family mostly engaged in land agency, and has incurred the ire of the people of
Kilfinane, Kilmallock, Charleville, and the surrounding country, in consequence of a difficulty
with one Murphy, a fairly large farmer according to the Irish measure of farming capacity.
Murphy's farm is known as Lisheen. It includes between 40 and 50 acres, and the rent, 240l.
per annum, has, I am informed, not been changed for forty-six years. When Murphy owed a clear
year's rent and a balance on a "broken gale," he was sued for the whole amount. By May of this
year he owed another gale of half a year's rent, and he was formally evicted and a caretaker
put in possession on the 21st June.

It has been explained in a previous letter that after receiving any amount of credit an Irish
farmer is again allowed six months' "redemption" after eviction. After paying up everything,
including the additional "gale" incurred, less the proceeds of the farm, he re-enters on possession
at any time within the margin of six months. Thus another "gale" fell due in November, and
Murphy was still unprovided with funds. He did, however, very well without them; for the Land
League, having become strong in the meanwhile in county Limerick, the caretaker was frightened
away from the farm and Murphy reinstated. Mr. Uniacke Townsend requested him to give up possession,
and was refused, and it then became known that Murphy might expect imprisonment or fine for
trespass. Thereat a meeting was held, and Mr. Townsend solemnly adjudged worthy of "Boycotting."
The lead in these disgraceful proceedings was taken by a Father Sheehy.

Whatever the merits of Murphy's case may be, and it seems that members of his family have held
Lisheen for some considerable time, there is no doubt that Father Sheehy made an almost frantic
speech against Mr. Townsend, the agent, and Mr. Coote, the owner of the property, declaring
that "the very name of Coote smelt of blood." I am not aware of the sanguinary deeds of the
Cootes in the past; all I know of them is that the present incumbent is a very old man, of
somewhat clerical exterior, who, like "A fine old Irish gentleman, one of the olden time,"
lives in London, requests his agent to enforce the law against his tenants without delay, and,
in order to encourage him to do his duty, sends down to Spa-hill the very best repeating rifles
that money can buy.

The upshot of the matter is that Mr. Townsend has been so threatened that he has yielded to
the entreaties of his family and left Kilfinane for a week or two, at any rate. He is, however,
like most of his profession, a very determined man, and declared that he would come home and
eat his Christmas dinner in his own house, "despite of foes;" but Mrs. Townsend, who, like
the lady to whom I referred in a previous letter, has borne up nobly under her severe trial,
was so scared at the thought of her husband's coming among a population banded together against
him that she set off on Saturday and joined him, as the only way of averting some terrible
disaster; for there is little doubt that the law will be put in force against Murphy now that
his six months for "redemption" have expired; and nobody can tell what will happen at Lisheen
any more than at Ennistymon if writs are issued against the tenants on the Macnamara estate,
or on Mr. Stacpoole's property, if he perseveres in his resolution to "Dublin writ" the people
with whom he has to deal.

So the family at Spa-hill is broken up this Christmas; father and mother are both away--where
I should hardly divulge, but assuredly where their Christmastide will be passed peacefully,
if not joyfully.

Another gentleman of these parts is being severely "Boycotted," to wit Mr. T. Sanders, of Sanders
Park, Charleville, county Cork, just over the border from county Limerick; the Mr. Sanders,
in fact, whom I saw the Palladians roaring and yelling at on the occasion of my first visit
to the classic battlefield of the "three and four year olds." On that occasion he had been
vainly trying to get in rents for the charitable bequest known as Erasmus Smith's Schools,
and Pallas was full of noisy and more or less drunken Palladians, who dealt with Mr. Sanders
in such wise that the police were obliged to see him into a railway carriage, and stand by
the door till the train moved on. I would fain have called upon Mr. Sanders as I drove to Charleville,
but the civil and obliging landlord of Lincoln's Hotel at that place, who supplied me with
an excellent carriage and horses, politely apologised for his inability to drive me thither.
He could not possibly enter Sanders Park, nor would any of his men go near that abhorred spot.
No orders concerning Spa-hill had been issued by the "Real Government" in the absence of the
hated head of the house, and I might be driven there and welcome; but Sanders Park was another
matter. I might walk out of the town, and across the park if I liked, and my informant would
ensure that I went and returned in safety, as for that matter I knew very well; but not being
fond of walking against time through the mud, I preferred going whither I could be driven in
comfort. Moreover, the novelty of the thing is wearing off, and "Boycotting" is now only interesting
when ingeniously evaded or boldly defied.

So long as a railway station is near him, the "Boycottee," if he have only two or three servants
to stand firm, can practically bring the Boycotters to their wits' end. The railway companies
being, I take it, common carriers, dare not refuse, like the cowardly shippers of Cork, to
take the "Boycottee's" beef and plum pudding, wine and whisky, to the most convenient railway
station, whence he, if well-armed and provided with an escort of constabulary, can bring in
his supplies under the very nose of the infuriated peasants who stand scowling around the station
gate and roar and "boo" their disgust at being foiled. There is not the slightest fear of the
"Boycotters" running their heads against Winchester rifles and army revolvers, and the convoy
need apprehend nothing hotter or harder than curses and groans, which, "like the idle wind,
hurt not the mariner ashore."

This last quotation had the misfortune to displease one of my young hosts, who opined that
he thought, on the contrary, we were all at sea in Ireland just now, and breakers were ahead.
Perhaps he is over much of an alarmist, but his present situation is hardly calculated to inspire
confidence in anything but conical bullets and cold steel. As we stand together on the doorstep,
he remarks that it will be long before Christmas à la Boycott is forgotten in Ireland, and
then he wishes me the compliments of the season. "Good bye," and "Safe home"--hateful valediction!
I wish him and his a happier new year than the old one has been; but it would be a sorry jest
to wish a merry Christmas to one whose greatest happiness and consolation are that at this
time of gathered kindred, at the feast which comes but once a year for the re-knitting of the
ties of domestic affection, the kindly voice of the house-mother is not heard beneath her own
roof tree; that the chair of the house-father stands empty at the Christmas board.

XVIII.

CHRISTMAS IN COUNTY CLARE.

ENNIS, Monday.

In a picture exhibited a few years ago, and since engraved, was powerfully and pathetically
portrayed a scene of the early life of the Pilgrim Fathers of New England. It was winter time,
and the day was Sunday. Clad in raiment of quaint severity, the head of the house led his Puritan
family and servants across the snow-clad fields to worship. Living in the midst of a hostile
population, the little band of worshippers was armed to the teeth. The father carried his "plain
falling band" and steeple-crowned hat with a stiff air, and also carried lethal weapons. His
prim wife and daughters bare Bibles, and his serving men, muskets. "Like a servant of the Lord,
With his Bible and his sword," the unflinching old soldier of the Commonwealth strode manfully
from his homestead to his religious duties, not unprepared to deal with any foes who might
turn up by the way.

As a glimpse of the remote past, as well as a work of art, this picture struck me as valuable;
but it certainly did not occur to me that a similar sight would be seen within a short space
in the kingdom of Ireland. Nevertheless, it may be witnessed on any Sunday in county Clare.
Near Tulla, a spot of evil repute just now as the theatre of a recent attack upon magistrates
returning from doing their duty, Colonel O'Callaghan, his wife and son, may be seen on any
Sunday morning going to church armed with rifle and revolver, and protected by an escort of
constabulary. The church is a long walk from Lismeehan (Anglice, Maryfort), and the way is
not safe either for Colonel O'Callaghan himself, his wife, his child, or anything that is his.

I will not pretend for what are called "sensational" purposes that the stranger who ventures
within the gates of Maryfort is in any danger so long as he remains within them, or that any
weightier missiles than groans and hisses are launched at him as he goes to and from the house
under "taboo." It is well known that an attack on Lismeehan would not be bloodless, and that
the defence would be far fiercer and more deadly than that made at the Clare-street Police
Barrack at Limerick. The little garrison is perfectly armed, and small as it is, would work
mischief on any attacking mob; but the experience at Tulla the other day proves that safety
is only purchased at the trouble and inconvenience of going everywhere armed to the teeth.

After my experience in the matter of Mr. Sanders, of Sanders Park, Charleville, I did not think
it worth while to go to a posting-house for a carriage and horses to reach Maryfort; but being
fortunate enough to obtain the loan of a friend's victoria and servant I got a horse "sharpened"
as to his shoes at Ennis; and drove over the frost-bound road to Colonel O'Callaghan's house
yesterday afternoon. It was a long drive to the most severely "Boycotted" house in Clare. It
was also a drive of surpassing dreariness. The sun, which had made the hoar frost to sparkle
on Christmas Day, barely pierced through the clouds on the afternoon of St. Stephen's. Leaving
trim lawns, a forest of box-trees, budding roses and peonies, well-grown early brocoli and
York cabbages behind, we drove through a country of eternal little fields and grey stone walls.

It is needless to say that Maryfort is a long way from Ennis. Every place is a long way from
everywhere in this western part of Ireland--a fact, by the way, not unfrequently forgotten
by critics of the much-criticised constabulary. Where gentlemen's houses and considerable villages
are as much as fifteen miles apart, the area of country to be watched becomes quite unmanageable.
Only those who have incurred the fearful loss of time in getting from place to place in Connaught
can form an adequate idea of it. Despite the discouraging remarks of its critics, this well-drilled,
well-grown corps of Royal Irish Constabulary remains as staunch and loyal as of old, but it
is absurd to expect impossibilities. Galway to a person sitting comfortably in his own library
appears to be overwhelmed with constables. I believe that there is, in fact, one constable
to every fifty adult males in that county--an enormous proportion judged statistically, but
yet slight enough when the vast area of the county and the miles of actual desert which separate
one partially civilised spot from another are considered.

A large percentage of the constabulary is also deflected from general to special service in
affording downright personal protection, and that modified protection known as "looking after"
individuals. A hundred and twenty persons in Ireland are now receiving "personal protection,"
amounting to the constant attendance of never less than two constables, frequently to the residence
of four or more on the premises or the property. At least eight hundred persons are being "looked
after;" so that it is no exaggeration to state that twelve or thirteen hundred men are detached
from the regular force on particular duty of the most harassing and vexatious kind. Wherever
the person under protection chooses to go, at whatever hour, or in whatever weather, his "escort"
must accompany him; for their orders are "not to lose sight of him" outside of his own door.
This is a troublesome duty, sometimes greatly aggravated by the conduct of the protected persons,
who take sudden fits and starts, and fly hither and thither in the oddest kind of way. The
constables get no rest; they are perpetually harassed and exposed, and they are quite superior
to the consolation of a "tip."

I say this deliberately, for on three several occasions I tried to give a drenched and half-frozen
constable a reward for service rendered, not for information to be given, and on each and every
occasion I met with a dignified refusal, accompanied by one man with a friendly caution not
to attempt that sort of thing, as some of the men might be rough. I say that I did not ask
for information, because I generally knew more than the constables, for the excellent reason
that I had wider and better sources to draw upon. From the country folk it is absolutely impossible
to glean any scrap of information. A question immediately shapes their countenances into a
look of hopeless simplicity and guilelessness bordering upon idiocy. Persons in quest of information
in the remote parts of Ireland put me in mind of the hunter of the Rocky Mountains, who, while
he was trying to stalk some antelope, became aware that a grizzly bear was stalking him. The
people find out all about the person seeking for knowledge, but he discovers nothing.

After this it is needless to say that the constabulary must of necessity be the last people
to learn anything from the country folk, and that a London detective would be as much out of
his element as "a salmon on a gravel walk."

Between Ennis and Maryfort we only met two brace of constables on the road, but we knew there
were others with Mr. Hall, of Cluny, at Tulla, and other places within ten miles of Colonel
O'Callaghan's house. There was a little gathering of people near the chapel at Bearfield, but
in other respects the road was empty till we neared our destination, when a little crowd set
up an Irish howl against us, followed by a shout of "Long live Parnell." Presently we came
to Lismeehan gates, opened after a good steady look at us by an ancient retainer, in a grey
frieze coat. I was told civilly enough that "the masther" was at home. Beyond a pretty park,
full of well-bred cattle, lay the "Boycotted" house, tall and grey and grim, in the waning
light. There was no sign of life in it. Under a handsome portico was the grand entrance, bolted
and barred up, with shutters closed. There was nothing for it but to tug vigorously at the
bell. Nobody came to the door, but around each corner of the house stepped an armed constable.
A moment later a narrow slip of the shutter was moved, and we became aware first of a fur cap
and then of a youthful face, which ultimately proved to be that of Colonel O'Callaghan's eldest
son, home for the holidays from a great English school, and undergoing the "hardening" process
of spending Christmas in a state of siege.

Presently came a maidservant, neat and trim, and after some wrestling with bolts the outer
door was opened a little way, and our names and business demanded, after which we entered a
great hall, apparently used as a refectory. Huge logs blazed on the hearth, and the room looked
comfortable enough. We were next ushered into the drawing-room of Colonel O'Callaghan, who
had just come in from herding his cattle and sheep, and was still girt with a brace of full-sized
revolvers.

No whit dismayed by the attack made on him at Tulla, and holding his foes in very slight estimation,
Colonel O'Callaghan is yet subjected to inconvenience and oppression of an extraordinary kind.
The proximate cause of his being "Boycotted" was his action is serving four processes himself,
because neither love nor money nor threats would induce a process-server to do his work. The
country folk know quite well the difference between Land League law and the phantom which remains
of the law of the land. The former is instantly enforced, the latter cannot be carried into
effect at all, a fact which is telling upon its officers with discouraging effect.

Finding his writs could be served by nobody but himself, Colonel O'Callaghan started early
one morning, attended by his escort, served the four writs himself, and then prepared to hold
his own. Pigs were killed, barrels of flour and other stores were brought in, and the house
provisioned to stand a siege. Recollection of old days in the Crimea, when Colonel O'Callaghan
was in the 62nd Regiment, were revived under the provisioning process, which was by no means
complete when he was formally "Boycotted," and left with 300 cattle and sheep upon his hands,
with only one man to help him to look after them. Thirty odd herds, labourers, and other dependents
have left Maryfort. Only three maid-servants, the old man at the gate, and another man now
remain, and even the housemaid, who is Irish and a Roman Catholic, must be guarded to and from
mass, amid the yells of the natives. It must be remembered that Maryfort is a lonely place,
three miles from a post-office, and three times that distance from a railway station; that
it is no light matter to send in and out for letters and parcels; and the emissary would, if
unarmed, assuredly be stopped, if not maltreated. This difficulty of getting letters and fresh
joints has been met in the latter case by falling back upon patriarchal customs. As Colonel
O'Callaghan can neither sell his sheep nor buy mutton, he has taken to consuming his flock,
albeit a sheep is a large animal to kill in a small family, and but for the winter weather
the loss would be very great.

There is another annoyance--the risk of valuable cattle being houghed or otherwise mutilated;
a risk calling for incessant watchfulness. That it is not of an imaginary nature is demonstrated
by the fact that the tails were cut off of two of Mrs. Westropp's cows a few nights since,
and a threatening letter, savagely coarse and brutal in its wording, was sent to that lady.
There is no doubt about this, for I have seen the letter, in which reference is made to the
cows and brutal treatment promised to Mrs. Westropp, a widow of small property.

The difficulty concerning letters, which it seems the postmaster at Callaghan's Mills is not
compelled to deliver at Maryfort, is got over in another way. As we are discussing the question
of supply, there enters to us a lady dressed in walking costume of studied simplicity. This
is the terrible Mrs. O'Callaghan, of whom I had heard wonderful stories in Clare and Limerick;
"And begorra," said one informant, "it's herself that's a divil of a lady entoirely, and she
shoots rabbuts wid a rifle at three hundred yards and niver misses, and she tould 'um at the
village that she'd as soon shoot one of 'um as a rabbut, and she is the sisther of Misthress
Dick Stacpoole, of Edenvale. They was the Miss Westropps, your honour, out of county Limerick,
and it is thim as makes their husbands the tyrants that they are." This account made me wonder
at two things--firstly, at the astounding power of lying and exaggeration displayed by my interlocutor;
and secondly, where the old Irish gallantry towards the fair sex has gone to. It seems to have
gone very far, for one hears now of ladies being shot at. But, although not impressed with
the truth of the information vouchsafed to me, I expected to see at least an Irish version
of Lady Macbeth, instead of the graceful, well-dressed, thorough-bred Irish gentlewoman who
had just come from a long walk to the post-office and back. Since the boy who used to carry
the letter bag was frightened away, Mrs. O'Callaghan has taken up his duties, and, armed with
rifle and revolver, performs them daily.

With the case of Miss Ellard, and other ladies, before my eyes, I cannot blame Mrs. O'Callaghan
for going about armed, and maintaining a defiant attitude towards the people, who really go
in bodily fear of her. There is, as I have observed, nothing to terrify in the look or voice
of Mrs. O'Callaghan, but I gradually gather from her conversation that it is not all romance
about her wonderful shooting. If not at three hundred, yet at thirty yards she can hit a rabbit
cleverly enough, and actually does go out rabbit shooting "for the pot" to relieve the monotony
of everlasting pig and sheep. Mrs. O'Callaghan is also nearly as good a shot with the revolver
as her husband, and would certainly not hesitate to use that weapon in self-defence.

Such is the present personnel of Maryfort at this moment, affording a sketch of manners reminding
one rather of a Huguenot family in southern France just after receiving the news of St. Bartholomew,
than of any social condition extant in modern Europe.

As we drive out into the darkness and heavily-falling snow there is some debate touching the
lighting of the carriage lamps. It is thought better not to light up, and to keep firearms
handy until we get some miles from Maryfort.

A howl pierces through the darkness as we pass a clump of houses, and I remark that my friend's
coachman drives very fast by any house on the road; but nothing occurs till we stop at a "shebeen"
to light both cigars and lamps, for the snowstorm is increasing. Not desiring refreshment,
I give the woman of the house a shilling for a drink for a man who is sitting by the fire.
I explain the nature of the transaction to him, and wish him a happy new year. The sulky brute
answers me never a word. Probably he knows or suspects where I have been, and if so would let
me lie on the ground under a kicking horse till an end was made of me rather than stretch forth
a hand. He will not speak now, and I observe that the woman, who has kept a tight hold on the
shilling, has not poured out any whisky, although she has had the decency to ask me if I wished
for any. It is a strange sight, this sullen silent savage sitting scowling over the fire; but
on se fait à tout in Disturbed Ireland.

LONDON: R. CLAY, SONS, AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS.

MESSRS. MACMILLAN & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.

NEW BOOKS ON IRELAND.

  NEW VIEWS ON IRELAND, OR IRISH LAND GRIEVANCES AND REMEDIES. By
    CHARLES RUSSELL, Q.C., M.P. Crown 8vo, cloth. 2s. 6d.

  "They should be studied by every one who desires to understand the
  existing crisis in Ireland."--SPECTATOR.

  "Mr. Russell has undoubtedly done his best by careful observation
  to arrive at the prevalent evils and their causes, and he has
  honestly and sincerely propounded his remedial scheme. His work is
  worthy of careful perusal."--EXAMINER.

  THE LIFE'S WORK IN IRELAND OF A LANDLORD WHO TRIED TO DO HIS
    DUTY. By W. BENCE JONES, of Lisselan. Crown 8vo. 6s.

  "Mr. Bence Jones has written an interesting and instructive book,
  but not the least enlightening part of it is the preface. This is
  dated the 12th of December, 1880. He had just been threatened with
  'Boycotting,' which he now undergoes."--ST. JAMES'S GAZETTE.

  "Mr. Bence Jones, every one must own, has a fair claim to be
  heard, and no one can be in a position properly to discuss Irish
  affairs till he has read his really valuable book."--LITERARY
  WORLD.

  THE IRISH LAND LAWS. By ALEXANDER G. RICHEY, Q.C.; LL.D., Deputy
    Regius Professor of Feudal and English Law in the University of
    Dublin. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d.

  "To all who, either as legislators or publicists, are called on to
  take part in the present controversy, the book will prove
  invaluable. The relation of the work to the discussions which now
  occupy so much attention, is well expressed ... It would be
  difficult to find any series of legislative problems stated with
  greater clearness, sequence, and precision. We can recommend this
  little book to all who speak, write, or seriously think upon this
  question, in or out of Parliament."--TIMES.

  "This book cannot fail to do good ... Mr. Richey writes throughout
  fairly, and in no partisan or controversial spirit, and his book
  is a contribution of great value to the discussion in which we now
  find ourselves involved."--ST. JAMES'S GAZETTE.

  THE IRISH CRISIS, being a Narrative of the Measures for the
    Relief of the Distress caused by the Great Irish Famine of
    1846--47. By SIR CHARLES TREVELYAN, Bart., K.C.B. 8vo. Price
    2s. 6d. Demy 8vo. 12s.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

MESSRS. MACMILLAN & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.

BY THE RIGHT HON. HENRY FAWCETT, M.P.

  THE ECONOMIC POSITION OF THE BRITISH LABOURER. Extra fcap. 8vo.
    5s.

  SPEECHES ON SOME CURRENT POLITICAL QUESTIONS. 8vo. 10s. 6d.

  CONTENTS:--Indian Finance--The Birmingham League--Nine Hours
  Bill--Election Expenses--Women's Suffrage--Household Suffrage in
  Counties--Irish University Education, &c.

  FREE TRADE and PROTECTION. An Inquiry into the Causes which have
    retarded the general adoption of Free Trade since its
    Introduction into England. Third Edition. 8vo. 7s. 6d.

BY W.T. THORNTON, C.B.

LATE SECRETARY FOR PUBLIC WORKS IN THE INDIA OFFICE.

  A PLEA for PEASANT PROPRIETORS, with the Outlines of a Plan for
    their Establishment in Ireland. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. 8vo. 14s.

  The LAND QUESTION, with Particular Reference to England and
    Scotland. By JOHN MACDONEL, Barrister-at-Law. 8vo. 10s. 6d.

  LAWRENCE BLOOMFIELD in IRELAND; or, The New Landlord. Cheaper
    Issue with New Preface. By WILLIAM ALLINGHAM. Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d.

  COMMENTARIES on the LIBERTY of the SUBJECT, and the LAWS of
    ENGLAND RELATING to the SECURITY of the PERSON. By JAMES
    PATERSON, Barrister-at-Law. Cheaper Issue. Two vols. Crown 8vo.
    21s.

  The LIBERTY of the PRESS, SPEECH, and PUBLIC WORSHIP. Being
    Commentaries on the Liberty of the Subject and the Laws of
    England. By JAMES PATERSON, Barrister-at-Law. Crown 8vo. 12s.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    +--------------------------------------------------------------+
    | Typographical errors corrected in text:                      |
    |                                                              |
    | Page  14: escert replaced with escort                        |
    | Page  24: similiar replaced with similar                     |
    | Page  44: licence replaced with license                      |
    | Page  75: 'kings men' replaced with 'king's men'             |
    | Page 149: posssble replaced with possible                    |
    | Page 218: 'he split upon it' replaced with                   |
    |           'be split upon it'                                 |
    |                                                              |
    +--------------------------------------------------------------+

       *       *       *       *       *

