"I'll see," replied Dubkoff, feeling for his pocket, and rummaging gingerly about with his
squat little fingers among his small change. "Yes, here are five copecks-twenty, but that's
all," he concluded with a comic gesture of his hand.

At this point Woloda re-entered.

"Are we going?"

"No."

"What an odd fellow you are!" said Nechludoff. "Why don't you say that you have no money? Here,
take my ticket."

"But what are you going to do?"

"He can go into his cousin's box," said Dubkoff.

"No, I'm not going at all," replied Nechludoff.

"Why?"

"Because I hate sitting in a box."

"And for what reason?"

"I don't know. Somehow I feel uncomfortable there."

"Always the same! I can't understand a fellow feeling uncomfortable when he is sitting with
people who are fond of him. It is unnatural, mon cher."

"But what else is there to be done si je suis tant timide? You never blushed in your life,
but I do at the least trifle," and he blushed at that moment.

"Do you know what that nervousness of yours proceeds from?" said Dubkoff in a protecting sort
of tone, "D'un exces d'amour propre, mon cher."

"What do you mean by 'exces d'amour propre'?" asked Nechludoff, highly offended. "On the contrary,
I am shy just because I have TOO LITTLE amour propre. I always feel as though I were being
tiresome and disagreeable, and therefore--"

"Well, get ready, Woloda," interrupted Dubkoff, tapping my brother on the shoulder and handing
him his cloak. "Ignaz, get your master ready."

"Therefore," continued Nechludoff, "it often happens with me that--"

But Dubkoff was not listening. "Tra-la-la-la," and he hummed a popular air.

"Oh, but I'm not going to let you off," went on Nechludoff. "I mean to prove to you that my
shyness is not the result of conceit."

"You can prove it as we go along."

"But I have told you that I am NOT going."

"Well, then, stay here and prove it to the DIPLOMAT, and he can tell us all about it when we
return."

"Yes, that's what I WILL do," said Nechludoff with boyish obstinacy, "so hurry up with your
return."

"Well, do you think I am egotistic?" he continued, seating himself beside me.

True, I had a definite opinion on the subject, but I felt so taken aback by this unexpected
question that at first I could make no reply. 

Another emphasis on positive interaction, and the discouragement, though not avoidance, of overt
expression at negative feelings at members of the group. We also discussed what causes marriages to
get "i stuck" so that they cease everything to grow.

"But what do you call egotism?" asked Nechludoff--smiling, as I thought, a little contemptuously.

"Egotism is a conviction that we are better and cleverer than any one else," I replied.

"But how can we ALL be filled with this conviction?" he inquired.

"Well, I don't know if I am right or not--certainly no one but myself seems to hold the opinion--but
I believe that I am wiser than any one else in the world, and that all of you know it."

"At least I can say for myself," observed Nechludoff, "that I have met a FEW people whom I
believe to excel me in wisdom."

"It is impossible," I replied with conviction.

"Do you really think so?" he said, looking at me gravely.

"Yes, really," I answered, and an idea crossed my mind which I proceeded to expound further.
"Let me prove it to you. Why do we love ourselves better than any one else? Because we think
ourselves BETTER than any one else--more worthy of our own love. If we THOUGHT others better
than ourselves, we should LOVE them better than ourselves: but that is never the case. And
even if it were so, I should still be right," I added with an involuntary smile of complacency.

For a few minutes Nechludoff was silent.

"I never thought you were so clever," he said with a smile so goodhumoured and charming that
I at once felt happy.

