"Here, Cap'n Holt, yer jest the man I been a-waitin' for," cried Miss Tucher, the postmistress,
from behind the sliding window. "If you ain't goin' up to the Cobdens, ye kin, can't ye? Here's
a lot o' letters jest come that I know they're expectin'. Miss Lucy's" (many of the village
people still called her Miss Lucy, not being able to pronounce her dead husband's name) "come
in yesterday and seems as if she couldn't wait. This storm made everything late and the mail
got in after she left. There ain't nobody comin' out to-day and here's a pile of 'em--furrin'
most of 'em. I'd take 'em myself if the snow warn't so deep. Don't mind, do ye? I'd hate to
have her disapp'inted, for she's jes' 's sweet as they make 'em."

"Don't mind it a mite, Susan Tucher," cried the captain. "Goin' there, anyhow. Got some business
with Miss Jane. Lord, what a wad o' them!"

"That ain't half what she gits sometimes," replied the postmistress, "and most of 'em has seals
and crests stamped on 'em. Some o' them furrin lords, I guess, she met over there."

These letters the captain held in his hand when he pushed open the door of the sitting-room
and stood before the inmates in his rough pea-jacket, his ruddy face crimson with the cold,
his half-moon whiskers all the whiter by contrast.

"Good-mornin' to the hull o' ye!" he shouted. "Cold as blue blazes outside, I tell ye, but
ye look snug enough in here. Hello, little Pond Lily! why ain't you out on your sled? Put two
more roses in your cheeks if there was room for 'em. There, ma'am," and he nodded to Lucy and
handed her the letters, "that's 'bout all the mail that come this mornin'. There warn't nothin'
else much in the bag. Susan Tucher asked me to bring 'em up to you count of the weather and
'count o' your being in such an all-fired hurry to read 'em."

Little Ellen was in his arms before this speech was finished and everybody else on their feet
shaking hands with the old salt, except poor, deaf old Martha, who called out, "Good-mornin',
Captain Holt," in a strong, clear voice, and in rather a positive way, but who kept her seat
by the fire and continued her knitting; and complacent Mrs. Dellenbaugh, the pastor's wife,
who, by reason of her position, never got up for anybody.

The captain advanced to the fire, Ellen still in his arms, shook hands with Mrs. Dellenbaugh
and extended three fingers, rough as lobster's claws and as red, to the old nurse. Of late
years he never met Martha without feeling that he owed her an apology for the way he had treated
her the day she begged him to send Bart away. So he always tried to make it up to her, although
he had never told her why.

"Hope you're better, Martha? Heard ye was under the weather; was that so? Ye look spry 'nough
now," he shouted in his best quarter-deck voice.

"Yes, but it warn't much. Doctor John fixed me up," Martha replied coldly. She had no positive
animosity toward the captain--not since he had shown some interest in Archie--but she could
never make a friend of him.

During this greeting Lucy, who had regained her chair, sat with the letters unopened in her
lap. None of the eagerness Miss Tucher had indicated was apparent. She seemed more intent on
arranging the folds of her morning-gown accentuating the graceful outlines of her well-rounded
figure. She had glanced through the package hastily, and had found the one she wanted and knew
that it was there warm under her touch--the others did not interest her.

"What a big mail, dear," remarked Jane, drawing up a chair. "Aren't you going to open it?"
The captain had found a seat by the window and the child was telling him everything she had
done since she last saw him.

"Oh, yes, in a minute," replied Lucy. "There's plenty of time." With this she picked up the
bunch of letters, ran her eye through the collection, and then, with the greatest deliberation,
broke one seal after another, tossing the contents on the table. Some she merely glanced at,
searching for the signatures and ignoring the contents; others she read through to the end.
One was from Dresden, from a student she had known there the year before. This was sealed with
a wafer and bore the address of the cafe where he took his meals. Another was stamped with
a crest and emitted a slight perfume; a third was enlivened by a monogram in gold and began:
"Ma chere amie," in a bold round hand. The one under her hand she did not open, but slipped
into the pocket of her dress. The others she tore into bits and threw upon the blazing logs.

"I guess if them fellers knew how short a time it would take ye to heave their cargo overboard,"
blurted out the captain, "they'd thought a spell 'fore they mailed their manifests."

Lucy laughed good-naturedly and Jane watched the blaze roar up the wide chimney. The captain
settled back in his chair and was about to continue his "sea yarn," as he called it, to little
Ellen, when he suddenly loosened the child from his arms, and leaning forward in his seat toward
where Jane sat, broke out with:

"God bless me! I believe I'm wool-gathering. I clean forgot what I come for. It is you, Miss
Jane, I come to see, not this little curly head that'll git me ashore yet with her cunnin'
ways. They're goin' to build a new life-saving station down Barnegat way. That Dutch brig that
come ashore last fall in that so'easter and all them men drownded could have been saved if
we'd had somethin' to help 'em with. We did all we could, but that house of Refuge ain't half
rigged and most o' the time ye got to break the door open to git at what there is if ye're
in a hurry, which you allus is. They ought to have a station with everything 'bout as it ought
to be and a crew on hand all the time; then, when somethin' comes ashore you're right there
on top of it. That one down to Squam is just what's wanted here."

"Will it be near the new summer hotel?" asked Lucy carelessly, just as a matter of information,
and without raising her eyes from the rings on her beautiful hands.

"'Bout half a mile from the front porch, ma'am"--he preferred calling her so--"from what I
hear. 'Tain't located exactly yet, but some'er's along there. I was down with the Gov'ment
agent yesterday."

"Who will take charge of it, captain?" inquired Jane, reaching over her basket in search of
her scissors.

"Well, that's what I come up for. They're talkin' about me," and the captain put his hands
behind Ellen's head and cracked his big knuckles close to her ear, the child laughing with
delight as she listened.

The announcement was received with some surprise. Jane, seeing Martha's inquiring face, as
if she wanted to hear, repeated the captain's words to her in a loud voice. Martha laid down
her knitting and looked at the captain over her spectacles.

"Why, would you take it, captain?" Jane asked in some astonishment, turning to him again.

"Don't know but I would. Ain't no better job for a man than savin' lives. I've helped kill
a good many; 'bout time now I come 'bout on another tack. I'm doin' nothin'--haven't been for
years. If I could get the right kind of a crew 'round me--men I could depend on--I think I
could make it go."

"If you couldn't nobody could, captain," said Jane in a positive way. "Have you picked out
your crew?"

"Yes, three or four of 'em. Isaac Polhemus and Tom Morgan--Tom sailed with me on my last voyage--and
maybe Tod."

"Archie's Tod?" asked Jane, replacing her scissors and searching for a spool of cotton.

"Archie's Tod," repeated the captain, nodding his head, his big hand stroking Ellen's flossy
curls. "That's what brought me up. I want Tod, and he won't go without Archie. Will ye give
him to me?"

"My Archie!" cried Jane, dropping her work and staring straight at the captain.

"Your Archie, Miss Jane, if that's the way you put it," and he stole a look at Lucy. She was
conscious of his glance, but she did not return it; she merely continued listening as she twirled
one of the rings on her finger.

"Well, but, captain, isn't it very dangerous work? Aren't the men often drowned?" protested Jane.

"Anything's dangerous 'bout salt water that's worth the doin'. I've stuck to the pumps seventy-two
hours at a time, but I'm here to tell the tale."

"Have you talked to Archie?"

"No, but Tod has. They've fixed it up betwixt 'em. The boy's dead set to go."

"Well, but isn't he too young?"

"Young or old, he's tough as a marline-spike--A1, and copper fastened throughout. There ain't
a better boatman on the beach. Been that way ever since he was a boy. Won't do him a bit of
harm to lead that kind of life for a year or two. If he was mine it wouldn't take me a minute
to tell what I'd do."

Jane leaned back in her chair, her eyes on the crackling logs, and began patting the carpet
with her foot. Lucy became engrossed in a book that lay on the table beside her. She didn't
intend to take any part in the discussion. If Jane wanted Archie to serve as a common sailor
that was Jane's business. Then again, it was, perhaps, just as well for a number of reasons
to have him under the captain's care. He might become so fond of the sea as to want to follow
it all his life.

"What do you think about it, Lucy?" asked Jane.

"Oh, I don't know anything about it. I don't really. I've lived so long away from here I don't
know what the young men are doing for a living. He's always been fond of the sea, has he not,
Captain Holt?"

"Allus," said the captain doggedly; "it's in his blood." Her answer nettled him. "You ain't
got no objections, have you, ma'am?" he asked, looking straight at Lucy.

Lucy's color came and went. His tone offended her, especially before Mrs. Dellenbaugh, who,
although she spoke but seldom in public had a tongue of her own when she chose to use it. She
was not accustomed to being spoken to in so brusque a way. She understood perfectly well the
captain's covert meaning, but she did not intend either to let him see it or to lose her temper.

"Oh, not the slightest," she answered with a light laugh. "I have no doubt that it will be
the making of him to be with you. Poor boy, he certainly needs a father's care."

The captain winced in turn under the retort and his eyes flashed, but he made no reply.

Little Ellen had slipped out of the captain's lap during the colloquy. She had noticed the
change in her friend's tone, and, with a child's intuition, had seen that the harmony was in
danger of being broken. She stood by the captain's knee, not knowing whether to climb back
again or to resume her seat by the window. Lucy, noticing the child's discomfort, called to her:

"Come here, Ellen, you will tire the captain."

The child crossed the room and stood by her mother while Lucy tried to rearrange the glossy
curls, tangled by too close contact with the captain's broad shoulder. In the attempt Ellen
lost her balance and fell into her mother's lap.

"Oh, Ellen!" said her mother coldly; "stand up, dear. You are so careless. See how you have
mussed my gown. Now go over to the window and play with your dolls."

The captain noted the incident and heard Lucy's reproof, but he made no protest. Neither did
he contradict the mother's statement that the little girl had tired him. His mind was occupied
with other things--the tone of the mother's voice for one, and the shade of sadness that passed
over the child's face for another. From that moment he took a positive dislike to her.

"Well, think it over, Miss Jane," he said, rising from his seat and reaching for his hat. "Plenty
of time 'bout Archie. Life-savin' house won't be finished for the next two or three months;
don't expect to git into it till June. Wonder, little Pond Lily, if the weather's goin' to
be any warmer?" He slipped his hand under the child's chin and leaning over her head peered
out of the window. "Don't look like it, does it, little one? Looks as if the snow would hold
on. Hello! here comes the doctor. I'll wait a bit--good for sore eyes to see him, and I don't
git a chance every day. Ask him 'bout Archie, Miss Jane. He'll tell ye whether the lad's too
young."

There came a stamping of feet on the porch outside as Doctor John shook the snow from his boots,
and the next instant he stepped into the room bringing with him all the freshness and sunshine
of the outside world.

"Good-morning, good people," he cried, "every one of you! How very snug and cosey you look
here! Ah, captain, where have you been keeping yourself? And Mrs. Dellenbaugh! This is indeed
a pleasure. I have just passed the dear doctor, and he is looking as young as he did ten years
ago. And my Lady Lucy! Down so early! Well, Mistress Martha, up again I see; I told you you'd
be all right in a day or two."

This running fire of greetings was made with a pause before each inmate of the room--a hearty
hand-shake for the bluff captain, the pressing of Mrs. Dellenbaugh's limp fingers, a low bow
to Lucy, and a pat on Martha's plump shoulder.

Jane came last, as she always did. She had risen to greet him and was now unwinding the white
silk handkerchief wrapped about his throat and helping him off with his fur tippet and gloves.

"Thank you, Jane. No, let me take it; it's rather wet," he added as he started to lay the heavy
overcoat over a chair. "Wait a minute. I've some violets for you if they are not crushed in
my pocket. They came last night," and he handed her a small parcel wrapped in tissue paper.
This done, he took his customary place on the rug with his back to the blazing logs and began
unbuttoning his trim frock-coat, bringing to view a double-breasted, cream-white waistcoat--he
still dressed as a man of thirty, and always in the fashion--as well as a fluffy scarf which
Jane had made for him with her own fingers.

"And what have I interrupted?" he asked, looking over the room. "One of your sea yarns, captain?"--here
he reached over and patted the child's head, who had crept back to the captain's arms--"or
some of my lady's news from Paris? You tell me, Jane," he added, with a smile, opening his
thin, white, almost transparent fingers and holding them behind his back to the fire, a favorite
attitude.

"Ask the captain, John." She had regained her seat and was reaching out for her work-basket,
the violets now pinned in her bosom--her eyes had long since thanked him.

"No, do YOU tell me," he insisted, moving aside the table with her sewing materials and placing
it nearer her chair.

"Well, but it's the captain who should speak," Jane replied, laughing, as she looked up into
his face, her eyes filled with his presence. "He has startled us all with the most wonderful
proposition. The Government is going to build a life-saving station at Barnegat beach, and
they have offered him the position of keeper, and he says he will take it if I will let Archie
go with him as one of his crew."

Doctor John's face instantly assumed a graver look. These forked roads confronting the career
of a young life were important and not to be lightly dismissed.

"Well, what did you tell him?" he asked, looking down at Jane in the effort to read her thoughts.

"We are waiting for you to decide, John." The tone was the same she would have used had the
doctor been her own husband and the boy their child.

Doctor John communed with himself for an instant. "Well, let us take a vote," he replied with
an air as if each and every one in the room was interested in the decision. "We'll begin with
Mistress Martha, and then Mrs. Dellenbaugh, and then you, Jane, and last our lady from over
the sea. The captain has already sold his vote to his affections, and so must be counted out."

"Yes, but don't count me in, please," exclaimed Lucy with a merry laugh as she arose from her
seat. "I don't know a thing about it. I've just told the dear captain so. I'm going upstairs
this very moment to write some letters. Bonjour, Monsieur le Docteur; bonjour, Monsieur le
Capitaine and Madame Dellenbaugh," and with a wave of her hand and a little dip of her head
to each of the guests, she courtesied out of the room.

When the door was closed behind her she stopped in the hall, threw a glance at her face in
the old-fashioned mirror, satisfied herself of her skill in preserving its beautiful rabbit's-foot
bloom and freshness, gave her blonde hair one or two pats to keep it in place, rearranged the
film of white lace about her shapely throat, and gathering up the mass of ruffled skirts that
hid her pretty feet, slowly ascended the staircase.

Once inside her room and while the vote was being taken downstairs that decided Archie's fate
she locked her door, dropped into a chair by the fire, took the unopened letter from her pocket,
and broke the seal.

"Don't scold, little woman," it read. "I would have written before, but I've been awfully busy
getting my place in order. It's all arranged now, however, for the summer. The hotel will be
opened in June, and I have the best rooms in the house, the three on the corner overlooking
the sea. Sue says she will, perhaps, stay part of the summer with me. Try and come up next
week for the night. If not I'll bring Sue with me and come to you for the day.

"Your own Max."

For some minutes she sat gazing into the fire, the letter in her hand.

"It's about time, Mr. Max Feilding," she said at last with a sigh of relief as she rose from
her seat and tucked the letter into her desk. "You've had string enough, my fine fellow; now
it's my turn. If I had known you would have stayed behind in Paris all these months and kept
me waiting here I'd have seen you safe aboard the steamer. The hotel opens in June, does it?
Well, I can just about stand it here until then; after that I'd go mad. This place bores me
to death."

CHAPTER XVI

THE BEGINNING OF THE EBB

Spring has come and gone. The lilacs and crocuses, the tulips and buttercups, have bloomed
and faded; the lawn has had its sprinkling of dandelions, and the duff of their blossoms has
drifted past the hemlocks and over the tree-tops. The grass has had its first cutting; the
roses have burst their buds and hang in clusters over the arbors; warm winds blow in from the
sea laden with perfumes from beach and salt-marsh; the skies are steely blue and the cloud
puffs drift lazily. It is summer-time--the season of joy and gladness, the season of out-of-doors.

All the windows at Yardley are open; the porch has donned an awning--its first--colored white
and green, shading big rocking-chairs and straw tables resting on Turkish rugs. Lucy had wondered
why in all the years that Jane had lived alone at Yardley she had never once thought of the
possibilities of this porch. Jane had agreed with her, and so, under Lucy's direction, the
awnings had been put up and the other comforts inaugurated. Beneath its shade Lucy sits and
reads or embroiders or answers her constantly increasing correspondence.

The porch serves too as a reception-room, the vines being thick and the occupants completely
hidden from view. Here Lucy often spreads a small table, especially when Max Feilding drives
over in his London drag from Beach Haven on Barnegat beach. On these occasions, if the weather
is warm, she refreshes him with delicate sandwiches and some of her late father's rare Scotch
whiskey (shelved in the cellar for thirty years) or with the more common brands of cognac served
in the old family decanters.

Of late Max had become a constant visitor. His own ancestors had made honorable records in
the preceding century, and were friends of the earlier Cobdens during the Revolution. This,
together with the fact that he had visited Yardley when Lucy was a girl--on his first return
from Paris, in fact--and that the acquaintance had been kept up while he was a student abroad,
was reason enough for his coming with such frequency.

His drag, moreover, as it whirled into Yardley's gate, gave a certain air of eclat to the Manor
House that it had not known since the days of the old colonel. Nothing was lacking that money
and taste could furnish. The grays were high-steppers and smooth as satin, the polished chains
rattled and clanked about the pole; the body was red and the wheels yellow, the lap-robe blue,
with a monogram; and the diminutive boy studded with silver buttons bearing the crest of the
Feilding family was as smart as the tailor could make him.

And the owner himself, in his whity-brown driving-coat with big pearl buttons, yellow gloves,
and gray hat, looked every inch the person to hold the ribbons. Altogether it was a most fashionable
equipage, owned and driven by a most fashionable man.

As for the older residents of Warehold, they had only words of praise for the turnout. Uncle
Ephraim declared that it was a "Jim Dandy," which not only showed his taste, but which also
proved how much broader that good-natured cynic had become in later years. Billy Tatham gazed
at it with staring eyes as it trundled down the highway and turned into the gate, and at once
determined to paint two of his hacks bright yellow and give each driver a lap-robe with the
letter "T" worked in high relief.

The inmates of Yardley were not quite so enthusiastic. Martha was glad that her bairn was having
such a good time, and she would often stand on the porch with little Ellen's hand in hers and
wave to Max and Lucy as they dashed down the garden road and out through the gate, the tiger
behind; but Jane, with that quick instinct which some women possess, recognized something in
Feilding's manner which she could not put into words, and so held her peace. She had nothing
against Max, but she did not like him. Although he was most considerate of her feelings and
always deferred to her, she felt that any opposition on her part to their outings would have
made no difference to either one of them. He asked her permission, of course, and she recognized
the courtesy, but nothing that he ever did or said overcame her dislike of him.

Doctor John's personal attitude and bearing toward Feilding was an enigma not only to Jane,
but to others who saw it. He invariably greeted him, whenever they met, with marked, almost
impressive cordiality, but it never passed a certain limit of reserve; a certain dignity of
manner which Max had recognized the first day he shook hands with him. It recalled to Feilding
some of his earlier days, when he was a student in Paris. There had been a supper in Max's
room that ended at daylight--no worse in its features than dozens of others in the Quartier--to
which an intimate friend of the doctor's had been invited, and upon which, as Max heard afterward,
the doctor had commented rather severely.

Max realized, therefore, but too well that the distinguished physician--known now over half
the State--understood him, and his habits, and his kind as thoroughly as he did his own ease
of instruments. He realized, too, that there was nothing about his present appearance or surroundings
or daily life that could lead so thoughtful a man of the world as Dr. John Cavendish, of Barnegat,
to conclude that he had changed in any way for the better.

And yet this young gentleman could never have been accused of burning his candle at both ends.
He had no flagrant vices really--none whose posters were pasted on the victim's face. Neither
cards nor any other form of play interested him, nor did the wine tempt him when it was red--or
of any other color, for that matter, nor did he haunt the dressing-rooms of chorus girls and
favorites of the hour. His innate refinement and good taste prevented any such uses of his
spare time. His weakness--for it could hardly be called a vice--was narrowed down to one infirmity,
and one only: this was his inability to be happy without the exclusive society of some one woman.

Who the woman might be depended very largely on whom he might be thrown with. In the first
ten years of his majority--his days of poverty when a student--it had been some girl in exile,
like himself. During the last ten years--since his father's death and his inheritance--it had
been a loose end picked out of the great floating drift--that social flotsam and jetsam which
eddies in and out of the casinos of Nice and Monte Carlo, flows into Aix and Trouville in summer
and back again to Rome and Cairo in winter--a discontented wife perhaps; or an unmarried woman
of thirty-five or forty, with means enough to live where she pleased; or it might be some self-exiled
Russian countess or English-woman of quality who had a month off, and who meant to make the
most of it. All most respectable people, of course, without a breath of scandal attaching to
their names--Max was too careful for that--and yet each and every one on the lookout for precisely
the type of man that Max represented: one never happy or even contented when outside the radius
of a waving fan or away from the flutter of a silken skirt.

It was in one of these resorts of the idle, a couple of years before, while Lucy's husband
and little Ellen were home in Geneva, that Max had met her, and where he had renewed the acquaintance
of their childhood--an acquaintance which soon ripened into the closest friendship.

Hence his London drag and appointments; hence the yacht and a four-in-hand--then a great novelty--all
of which he had promised her should she decide to join him at home. Hence, too, his luxuriously
fitted-up bachelor quarters in Philadelphia, and his own comfortable apartments in his late
father's house, where his sister Sue lived; and hence, too, his cosey rooms in the best corner
of the Beach Haven hotel, with a view overlooking Barnegat Light and the sea.

None of these things indicated in the smallest degree that this noble gentleman contemplated
finally settling down in a mansion commensurate with his large means, where he and the pretty
widow could enjoy their married life together; nothing was further from his mind--nothing could
be--he loved his freedom too much. What he wanted, and what he intended to have, was her undivided
companionship--at least for the summer; a companionship without any of the uncomfortable complications
which would have arisen had he selected an unmarried woman or the wife of some friend to share
his leisure and wealth.

The woman he picked out for the coming season suited him exactly. She was blonde, with eyes,
mouth, teeth, and figure to his liking (he had become critical in forty odd years--twenty passed
as an expert); dressed in perfect taste, and wore her clothes to perfection; had a Continental
training that made her mistress of every situation, receiving with equal ease and graciousness
anybody, from a postman to a prince, sending them away charmed and delighted; possessed money
enough of her own not to be too much of a drag upon him; and--best of all (and this was most
important to the heir of Walnut Hill)--had the best blood of the State circling in her veins.
Whether this intimacy might drift into something closer, compelling him to take a reef in his
sails, never troubled him. It was not the first time that he had steered his craft between
the Scylla of matrimony and the Charybdis of scandal, and he had not the slightest doubt of
his being able to do it again.

As for Lucy, she had many plans in view. One was to get all the fun possible out of the situation;
another was to provide for her future. How this was to be accomplished she had not yet determined.
Her plans were laid, but some of them she knew from past experience might go astray. On one
point she had made up her mind--not to be in a hurry. In furtherance of these schemes she had
for some days--some months, in fact--been making preparations for an important move. She knew
that its bare announcement would come as a surprise to Jane and Martha and, perhaps, as a shock,
but that did not shake her purpose. She furthermore expected more or less opposition when they
fully grasped her meaning. This she intended to overcome. Neither Jane nor Martha, she said
to herself, could be angry with her for long, and a few kisses and an additional flow of good-humor
would soon set them to laughing again.

To guard against the possibility of a too prolonged interview with Jane, ending, perhaps, in
a disagreeable scene--one beyond her control--she had selected a sunny summer morning for the
stage setting of her little comedy and an hour when Feilding was expected to call for her in
his drag. She and Max were to make a joint inspection that day of his new apartment at Beach
Haven, into which he had just moved, as well as the stable containing the three extra vehicles
and equine impedimenta, which were to add to their combined comfort and enjoyment.

Lucy had been walking in the garden looking at the rose-beds, her arm about her sister's slender
waist, her ears open to the sound of every passing vehicle--Max was expected at any moment--when
she began her lines.

"You won't mind, Jane, dear, will you, if I get together a few things and move over to Beach
Haven for a while?" she remarked simply, just as she might have done had she asked permission
to go upstairs to take a nap. "I think we should all encourage a new enterprise like the hotel,
especially old families like ours. And then the sea air always does me so much good. Nothing
like Trouville air, my dear husband used to tell me, when I came back in the autumn. You don't
mind, do you?"

"For how long, Lucy?" asked Jane, with a tone of disappointment in her voice, as she placed
her foot on the top step of the porch.

"Oh, I can't tell. Depends very much on how I like it." As she spoke she drew up an easy-chair
for Jane and settled herself in another. Then she added carelessly: "Oh, perhaps a month--perhaps
two."

"Two months!" exclaimed Jane in astonishment, dropping into her seat. "Why, what do you want
to leave Yardley for? O Lucy, don't--please don't go!"

"But you can come over, and I can come here," rejoined Lucy in a coaxing tone.

"Yes; but I don't want to come over. I want you at home. And it's so lovely here. I have never
seen the garden look so beautiful; and you have your own room, and this little porch is so
cosey. The hotel is a new building, and the doctor says a very damp one, with everything freshly
plastered. He won't let any of his patients go there for some weeks, he tells me. Why should
you want to go? I really couldn't think of it, dear. I'd miss you dreadfully."

"You dear old sister," answered Lucy, laying her parasol on the small table beside her, "you
are so old-fashioned. Habit, if nothing else, would make me go. I have hardly passed a summer
in Paris or Geneva since I left you; and you know how delightful my visits to Biarritz used
to be years ago. Since my marriage I have never stayed in any one place so long as this. I
must have the sea air."

"But the salt water is right here, Lucy, within a short walk of our gate, and the air is the
same." Jane's face wore a troubled look, and there was an anxious, almost frightened tone in
her voice.

"No, it is not exactly the same," Lucy answered positively, as if she had made a life-long
study of climate; "and if it were, the life is very different. I love Warehold, of course;
but you must admit that it is half-asleep all the time. The hotel will be some change; there
will be new people and something to see from the piazzas. And I need it, dear. I get tired
of one thing all the time--I always have."

"But you will be just as lonely there." Jane in her astonishment was like a blind man feeling
about for a protecting wall.

"No; Max and his sister will be at Beach Haven, and lots of others I know. No, I won't be lonely,"
and an amused expression twinkled in her eyes.

Jane sat quite still. Some of Captain Holt's blunt, outspoken criticisms floated through her brain.

"Have you any reason for wanting to leave here?" she asked, raising her eyes and looking straight
at Lucy.

"No, certainly not. How foolish, dear, to ask me! I'm never so happy as when I am with you."

"Well, why then should you want to give up your home and all the comforts you need--your flowers,
garden, and everything you love, and this porch, which you have just made so charming, to go
to a damp, half-completed hotel, without a shrub about it--only a stretch of desolate sand
with the tide going in and out?" There was a tone of suspicion in Jane's voice that Lucy had
never heard from her sister's lips--never, in all her life.

"Oh, because I love the tides, if nothing else," she answered with a sentimental note in her
voice. "Every six hours they bring me a new message. I could spend whole mornings watching
the tides come and go. During my long exile you don't know how I dreamed every night of the
dear tides of Barnegat. If you had been away from all you love as many years as I have, you
would understand how I could revel in the sound of the old breakers."

For some moments Jane did not answer. She knew from the tones of Lucy's voice and from the
way she spoke that she did not mean it. She had heard her talk that way to some of the villagers
when she wanted to impress them, but she had never spoken in the same way to her.

"You have some other reason, Lucy. Is it Max?" she asked in a strained tone.

Lucy colored. She had not given her sister credit for so keen an insight into the situation.
Jane's mind was evidently working in a new direction. She determined to face the suspicion
squarely; the truth under some conditions is better than a lie.

"Yes," she replied, with an assumed humility and with a tone as if she had been detected in
a fault and wanted to make a clean breast of it. "Yes--now that you have guessed it--it IS Max."

"Don't you think it would be better to see him here instead of at the hotel?" exclaimed Jane,
her eyes still boring into Lucy's.

"Perhaps"--the answer came in a helpless way--"but that won't do much good. I want to keep
my promise to him if I can."

"What was your promise?" Jane's eyes lost their searching look for an instant, but the tone
of suspicion still vibrated.

Lucy hesitated and began playing with the trimming on her dress.

"Well, to tell you the truth, dear, a few days ago in a burst of generosity I got myself into
something of a scrape. Max wants his sister Sue to spend the summer with him, and I very foolishly
promised to chaperon her. She is delighted over the prospect, for she must have somebody, and
I haven't the heart to disappoint her. Max has been so kind to me that I hate now to tell him
I can't go. That's all, dear. I don't like to speak of obligations of this sort, and so at
first I only told you half the truth."

"You should always keep your promise, dear," Jane answered thoughtfully and with a certain
relieved tone. (Sue was nearly thirty, but that did not occur to Jane.) "But this time I wish
you had not promised. I am sorry, too, for little Ellen. She will miss her little garden and
everything she loves here; and then again, Archie will miss her, and so will Captain Holt and
Martha. You know as well as I do that a hotel is no place for a child."

"I am glad to hear you say so. That's why I shall not take her with me." As she spoke she shot
an inquiring glance from the corner of her eyes at the anxious face of her sister. These last
lines just before the curtain fell were the ones she had dreaded most.

Jane half rose from her seat. Her deep eyes were wide open, gazing in astonishment at Lucy.
For an instant she felt as if her heart had stopped beating.

"And you--you--are not going to take Ellen with you!" she gasped.

"No, of course not." She saw her sister's agitation, but she did not intend to notice it. Besides,
her expectant ear had caught the sound of Max's drag as it whirled through the gate. "I always
left her with her grandmother when she was much younger than she is now. She is very happy
here and I wouldn't be so cruel as to take her away from all her pleasures. Then she loves
old people. See how fond she is of the Captain and Martha! No, you are right. I wouldn't think
of taking her away."

Jane was standing now, her eyes blazing, her lips quivering.

"You mean, Lucy, that you would leave your child here and spend two months away from her?"

The wheels were crunching the gravel within a rod of the porch. Max had already lifted his hat.

"But, sister, you don't understand--" The drag stopped and Max, with uncovered head, sprang
out and extended his hand to Jane.

Before he could offer his salutations Lucy's joyous tones rang out.

"Just in the nick of time, Max," she cried. "I've just been telling my dear sister that I'm
going to move over to Beach Haven to-morrow, bag and baggage, and she is delighted at the news.
Isn't it just like her?"

CHAPTER XVII

BREAKERS AHEAD

The summer-home of Max Feilding, Esq., of Walnut Hill, and of the beautiful and accomplished
widow of the dead Frenchman was located on a levelled sand-dune in full view of the sea. Indeed,
from beneath its low-hooded porticos and piazzas nothing else could be seen except, perhaps,
the wide sky--gray, mottled, or intensely blue, as the weather permitted--the stretch of white
sand shaded from dry to wet and edged with tufts of yellow grass; the circling gulls and the
tall finger of Barnegat Light pointing skyward. Nothing, really, but some scattering buildings
in silhouette against the glare of the blinding light--one the old House of Refuge, a mile
away to the north, and nearer by, the new Life Saving Station (now complete) in charge of Captain
Nat Holt and his crew of trusty surfmen.

This view Lucy always enjoyed. She would sit for hours under her awnings and watch the lazy
boats crawling in and out of the inlet, or the motionless steamers--motionless at that distance--slowly
unwinding their threads of smoke. The Station particularly interested her. Somehow she felt
a certain satisfaction in knowing that Archie was at work and that he had at last found his
level among his own people--not that she wished him any harm; she only wanted him out of her way.

The hostelry itself was one of those low-roofed, shingle-sided and shingle-covered buildings
common in the earlier days along the Jersey coast, and now supplanted by more modern and more
costly structures. It had grown from a farm-house and out-buildings to its present state with
the help of an architect and a jig-saw; the former utilizing what remained of the house and
its barns, and the latter transforming plain pine into open work patterns with which to decorate
its gable ends and facade. When the flags were raised, the hanging baskets suspended in each
loop of the porches, and the merciless, omnipresent and ever-insistent sand was swept from
its wide piazzas and sun-warped steps it gave out an air of gayety so plausible and enticing
that many otherwise sane and intelligent people at once closed their comfortable homes and
entered their names in its register.

The amusements of these habitues--if they could be called habitues, this being their first
summer--were as varied as their tastes. There was a band which played mornings and afternoons
in an unpainted pine pagoda planted on a plot of slowly dying grass and decorated with more
hanging baskets and Chinese lanterns; there was bathing at eleven and four; and there was croquet
on the square of cement fenced about by poles and clothes-lines at all hours. Besides all this
there were driving parties to the villages nearby; dancing parties at night with the band in
the large room playing away for dear life, with all the guests except the very young and very
old tucked away in twos in the dark corners of the piazzas out of reach of the lights and the
inquisitive--in short, all the diversions known to such retreats, so necessary for warding
off ennui and thus inducing the inmates to stay the full length of their commitments.

In its selection Max was guided by two considerations: it was near Yardley--this would materially
aid in Lucy's being able to join him--and it was not fashionable and, therefore, not likely
to be overrun with either his own or Lucy's friends. The amusements did not interest him; nor
did they interest Lucy. Both had seen too much and enjoyed too much on the other side of the
water, at Nice, at Monte Carlo, and Biarritz, to give the amusements a thought. What they wanted
was to be let alone; this would furnish all the excitement either of them needed. This exclusiveness
was greatly helped by the red and yellow drag, with all its contiguous and connecting impedimenta,
a turnout which never ceased to occupy everybody's attention whenever the small tiger stood
by the heads of the satin-coated grays awaiting the good pleasure of his master and his lady.
Its possession not only marked a social eminence too lofty for any ordinary habitue to climb
to unless helped up by the proffered hand of the owner, but it prevented anyone of these would-be
climbers from inviting either its owner or his companion to join in other outings no matter
how enjoyable. Such amusements as they could offer were too simple and old-fashioned for two
distinguished persons who held the world in their slings and who were whirling it around their
heads with all their might. The result was that their time was their own.

They filled it at their pleasure.

When the tide was out and the sand hard, they drove on the beach, stopping at the new station,
chatting with Captain Holt or Archie; or they strolled north, always avoiding the House of
Refuge--that locality had too many unpleasant associations for Lucy, or they sat on the dunes,
moving back out of the wet as the tide reached them, tossing pebbles in the hollows, or gathering
tiny shells, which Lucy laid out in rows of letters as she had done when a child. In the afternoon
they drove by way of Yardley to see how Ellen was getting on, or idled about Warehold, making
little purchases at the shops and chatting with the village people, all of whom would come
out to greet them. After dinner they would generally betake themselves to Max's portico, opening
out of his rooms, or to Lucy's--they were at opposite ends of the long corridor--where the
two had their coffee while Max smoked.

The opinions freely expressed regarding their social and moral status, and individual and combined
relations, differed greatly in the several localities in which they were wont to appear. In
Warehold village they were looked upon as two most charming and delightful people, rich, handsome,
and of proper age and lineage, who were exactly adapted to each other and who would prove it
before the year was out, with Pastor Dellenbaugh officiating, assisted by some dignitary from
Philadelphia.

At the hostelry many of the habitues had come to a far different conclusion. Marriage was not
in either of their heads, they maintained; their intimacy was a purely platonic one, born of
a friendship dating back to childhood--they were cousins really--Max being the dearest and
most unselfish creature in the world, he having given up all his pleasures elsewhere to devote
himself to a most sweet and gracious lady whose grief was still severe and who would really
be quite alone in the world were it not for her little daughter, now temporarily absent.

This summary of facts, none of which could be questioned, was supplemented and enriched by
another conclusive instalment from Mrs. Walton Coates, of Chestnut Plains, who had met Lucy
at Aix the year before, and who therefore possessed certain rights not vouchsafed to the other
habitues of Beach Haven--an acquaintance which Lucy, for various reasons, took pains to encourage--Mrs.
C.'s social position being beyond question, and her house and other appointments more than
valuable whenever Lucy should visit Philadelphia: besides, Mrs. Coates's own and Lucy's apartments
joined, and the connecting door of the two sitting-rooms was often left open, a fact which
established a still closer intimacy. This instalment, given in a positive and rather lofty
way, made plain the fact that in her enforced exile the distinguished lady not only deserved
the thanks of every habitue of the hotel, but of the whole country around, for selecting the
new establishment in which to pass the summer, instead of one of the more fashionable resorts
elsewhere.

This outburst of the society leader, uttered in the hearing of a crowded piazza, had occurred
after a conversation she had had with Lucy concerning little Ellen.

"Tell me about your little daughter," Mrs. Coates had said. "You did not leave her abroad,
did you?"

"Oh, no, my dear Mrs. Coates! I am really here on my darling's account," Lucy answered with
a sigh. "My old home is only a short distance from here. But the air does not agree with me
there, and so I came here to get a breath of the real sea. Ellen is with her aunt, my dear
sister Jane. I wanted to bring her, but really I hadn't the heart to take her from them; they
are so devoted to her. Max loves her dearly. He drives me over there almost every day. I really
do not know how I could have borne all the sorrows I have had this year without dear Max. He
is like a brother to me, and SO thoughtful. You know we have known each other since we were
children. They tell such dreadful stories, too, about him, but I have never seen that side
of him, he's a perfect saint to me."

From that time on Mrs. Coates was her loyal mouthpiece and devoted friend. Being separated
from one's child was one of the things she could not brook; Lucy was an angel to stand it as
she did. As for Max--no other woman had ever so influenced him for good, nor did she believe
any other woman could.

At the end of the second week a small fly no larger than a pin's head began to develop in the
sunshine of their amber. It became visible to the naked eye when Max suddenly resolved to leave
his drag, his tiger, his high-stepping grays, and his fair companion, and slip over to Philadelphia--for
a day or two, he explained. His lawyer needed him, he said, and then again he wanted to see
his sister Sue, who had run down to Walnut Hill for the day. (Sue, it might as well be stated,
had not yet put in an appearance at Beach Haven, nor had she given any notice of her near arrival;
a fact which had not disturbed Lucy in the least until she attempted to explain to Jane.)

"I've got to pull up, little woman, and get out for a few days," Max had begun. "Morton's all
snarled up, he writes me, over a mortgage, and I must straighten it out. I'll leave Bones [the
tiger] and everything just as it is. Don't mind, do you?"

"Mind! Of course I do!" retorted Lucy. "When did you get this marvellous idea into that wonderful
brain of yours, Max? I intended to go to Warehold myself to-morrow." She spoke with her usual
good-humor, but with a slight trace of surprise and disappointment in her tone.

"When I opened my mail this morning; but my going won't make any difference about Warehold.
Bones and the groom will take care of you."

Lucy leaned back in her chair and looked over the rail of the porch. She had noticed lately
a certain restraint in Max's manner which was new to her. Whether he was beginning to get bored,
or whether it was only one of his moods, she could not decide--even with her acute knowledge
of similar symptoms. That some change, however, had come over him she had not the slightest
doubt. She never had any trouble in lassoing her admirers. That came with a glance of her eye
or a lift of her pretty shoulders: nor for that matter in keeping possession of them as long
as her mood lasted.

"Whom do you want to see in Philadelphia, Max?" she asked, smiling roguishly at him. She held
him always by presenting her happiest and most joyous side, whether she felt it or not.

"Sue and Morton--and you, you dear girl, if you'll come along."

"No; I'm not coming along. I'm too comfortable where I am. Is this woman somebody you haven't
told me of, Max?" she persisted, looking at him from under half-closed lids.

"Your somebodies are always thin air, little girl; you know everything I have ever done in
my whole life," Max answered gravely. She had for the last two weeks.

Lucy threw up her hands and laughed so loud and cheerily that an habitue taking his morning
constitutional on the boardwalk below turned his head in their direction. The two were at breakfast
under the awnings of Lucy's portico, Bones standing out of range.

"You don't believe it?"

"Not one word of it, you fraud; nor do you. You've forgotten one-half of all you've done and
the other half you wouldn't dare tell any woman. Come, give me her name. Anybody Sue knows?"

"Nobody that anybody knows, Honest John." Then he added as an after-thought, "Are you sorry?"
As he spoke he rose from his seat and stood behind her chair looking down over her figure.
She had her back to him. He thought he had never seen her look so lovely. She was wearing a
light-blue morning-gown, her arms bare to the elbows, and a wide Leghorn hat--the morning costume
of all others he liked her best in.

"No--don't think I am," she answered lightly. "Fact is I was getting pretty tired of you. How
long will you be gone?"

"Oh, I think till the end of the week--not longer." He reached over the chair and was about
to play with the tiny curls that lay under the coil of her hair, when he checked himself and
straightened up. One of those sudden restraints which had so puzzled Lucy had seized him. She
could not see his face, but she knew from the tones of his voice that the enthusiasm of the
moment had cooled.

Lucy shifted her chair, lifted her head, and looked up into his eyes. She was always entrancing
from this point of view: the upturned eyelashes, round of the cheeks, and the line of the throat
and swelling shoulders were like no other woman's he knew.

"I don't want you to go, Max," she said in the same coaxing tone of voice that Ellen might
have used in begging for sugar-plums. "Just let the mortgage and old Morton and everybody else
go. Stay here with me."

Max straightened up and threw out his chest and a determined look came into his eyes. If he
had had any doubts as to his departure Lucy's pleading voice had now removed them.

"No, can't do it," he answered in mock positiveness. "Can't 'pon my soul. Business is business.
Got to see Morton right away; ought to have seen him before." Then he added in a more serious
tone, "Don't get worried if I stay a day or two longer."

"Well, then, go, you great bear, you," and she rose to her feet and shook out her skirts. "I
wouldn't let you stay, no matter what you said." She was not angry--she was only feeling about
trying to put her finger on the particular button that controlled Max's movements. "Worried?
Not a bit of it. Stay as long as you please."

There WAS a button, could she have found it. It was marked "Caution," and when pressed communicated
to the heir of Walnut Hill the intelligence that he was getting too fond of the pretty widow
and that his only safety lay in temporary flight. It was a favorite trick of his. In the charting
of his course he had often found two other rocks beside Scylla and Charybdis in his way; one
was boredom and the other was love. When a woman began to bore him, or he found himself liking
her beyond the limit of his philosophy, he invariably found relief in change of scene. Sometimes
it was a sick aunt or a persistent lawyer or an engagement nearly forgotten and which must
be kept at all hazards. He never, however, left his inamorata in either tears or anger.

"Now, don't be cross, dear," he cried, patting her shoulder with his fingers. "You know I don't
want to leave you. I shall be perfectly wretched while I'm gone, but there's no help for it.
Morton's such a fussy old fellow--always wanting to do a lot of things that can, perhaps, wait
just as well as not. Hauled me down from Walnut Hill half a dozen times once, and after all
the fellow wouldn't sell. But this time it's important and I must go. Bones," and he lifted
his finger to the boy, "tell John I want the light wagon. I'll take the 11.12 to Philadelphia."

The tiger advanced ten steps and stood at attention, his finger at his eyebrow. Lucy turned
her face toward the boy. "No, Bones, you'll do nothing of the kind. You tell John to harness
the grays to the drag. I'll go to the station with Mr. Feilding."

Max shrugged his shoulders. He liked Lucy for a good many things--one was her independence,
another was her determination to have her own way. Then, again, she was never so pretty as
when she was a trifle angry; her color came and went so deliciously and her eyes snapped so
charmingly. Lucy saw the shrug and caught the satisfied look in his face. She didn't want to
offend him and yet she didn't intend that he should go without a parting word from her--tender
or otherwise, as circumstances might require. She knew she had not found the button, and in
her doubt determined for the present to abandon the search.

"No, Bones, I've changed my mind," she called to the boy, who was now half way down the piazza.
"I don't think I will go. I'll stop here, Max, and do just what you want me to do," she added
in a softened voice. "Come along," and she slipped her hand in his and the two walked toward
the door of his apartments.

When the light wagon and satin-skinned sorrel, with John on the seat and Bones in full view,
stopped at the sanded porch, Mrs. Coates and Lucy formed part of the admiring group gathered
about the turn-out. All of Mr. Feilding's equipages brought a crowd of onlookers, no matter
how often they appeared--he had five with him at Beach Haven, including the four-in-hand which
he seldom used--but the grays and the light wagon, by common consent, were considered the most
"stylish" of them all, not excepting the drag.

After Max had gathered the reins in his hands, had balanced the whip, had settled himself comfortably
and with a wave of his hand to Lucy had driven off, Mrs. Coates slipped her arm through my
lady's and the two slowly sauntered to their rooms.

"Charming man, is he not?" Mrs. Coates ventured. "Such a pity he is not married! You know I
often wonder whom such men will marry. Some pretty school-girl, perhaps, or prim woman of forty."

Lucy laughed.

"No," she answered, "you are wrong. The bread-and-butter miss would never suit Max, and he's
past the eye-glass and side-curl age. The next phase, if he ever reaches it, will be somebody
who will make him do--not as he pleases, but as SHE pleases. A man like Max never cares for
a woman any length of time who humors his whims."

"Well, he certainly was most attentive to that pretty Miss Billeton. You remember her father
was lost overboard four years ago from his yacht. Mr. Coates told me he met her only a day
or so ago; she had come down to look after the new ball-room they are adding to the old house.
You know her, don't you?"

"No--never heard of her. How old is she?" rejoined Lucy in a careless tone.

"I should say twenty, maybe twenty-two--you can't always tell about these girls; very pretty
and very rich. I am quite sure I saw Mr. Feilding driving with her just before he moved his
horses down here, and she looked prettier than ever. But then he has a new flame every month,
I hear."

"Where were they driving?" There was a slight tone of curiosity in Lucy's voice. None of Max's
love-affairs ever affected her, of course, except as they made for his happiness; all undue
interest, therefore, was out of place, especially before Mrs. Coates.

"I don't remember. Along the River Road, perhaps--he generally drives there when he has a pretty
woman with him."

Lucy bit her lip. Some other friend, then, had been promised the drag with the red body and
yellow wheels! This was why he couldn't come to Yardley when she wrote for him. She had found
the button. It rang up another woman.

The door between the connecting sitting-rooms was not opened that day, nor that night, for
that matter. Lucy pleaded a headache and wished to be alone. She really wanted to look the
field over and see where her line of battle was weak. Not that she really cared--unless the
girl should upset her plans; not as Jane would have cared had Doctor John been guilty of such
infidelity. The eclipse was what hurt her. She had held the centre of the stage with the lime-light
full upon her all her life, and she intended to retain it against Miss Billeton or Miss Anybody
else. She decided to let Max know at once, and in plain terms, giving him to understand that
she didn't intend to be made a fool of, reminding him at the same time that there were plenty
of others who cared for her, or who would care for her if she should but raise her little finger.
She WOULD raise it, too, even if she packed her trunks and started for Paris--and took him
with her.

These thoughts rushed through her mind as she sat by the window and looked out over the sea.
The tide was making flood, and the fishing-boats anchored in the inlet were pointing seaward.
She could see, too, the bathers below and the children digging in the sand. Now and then a
boat would head for the inlet, drop its sail, and swing round motionless with the others. Then
a speck would break away from the anchored craft and with the movement of a water-spider land
the fishermen ashore.

None of these things interested her. She could not have told whether the sun shone or whether
the sky was fair or dull. Neither was she lonely, nor did she miss Max. She was simply angry--disgusted--disappointed
at the situation; at herself, at the woman who had come between them, at the threatened failure
of her plans. One moment she was building up a house of cards in which she held all the trumps,
and the next instant she had tumbled it to the ground. One thing she was determined upon--not
to take second place. She would have all of him or none of him.

At the end of the third day Max returned. He had not seen Morton, nor any of his clerks, nor
anybody connected with his office. Neither had he sent him any message or written him any letter.
Morton might have been dead and buried a century so far as Max or his affairs were concerned.
Nor had he laid his eyes on the beautiful Miss Billeton; nor visited her house; nor written
her any letters; nor inquired for her. What he did do was to run out to Walnut Hill, have a
word with his manager, and slip back to town again and bury himself in his club. Most of the
time he read the magazines, some pages two or three times over. Once he thought he would look
up one or two of his women friends at their homes--those who might still be in town--and then
gave it up as not being worth the trouble. At the end of the third day he started for Barnegat.
The air was bad in the city, he said to himself, and everybody he met was uninteresting. He
would go back, hitch up the grays, and he and Lucy have a spin down the beach. Sea air always
did agree with him, and he was a fool to leave it.

Lucy met him at the station in answer to his telegram sent over from Warehold. She was dressed
in her very best: a double-breasted jacket and straw turban, a gossamer veil wound about it.
Her cheeks were like two red peonies and her eyes bright as diamonds. She was perched up in
the driver's seat of the drag, and handled the reins and whip with the skill of a turfman.
This time Bones, the tiger, did not spring into his perch as they whirled from the station
in the direction of the beach. His company was not wanted.

They talked of Max's trip, of the mortgage, and of Morton; of how hot it was in town and how
cool it was on her portico; of Mrs. Coates and of pater-familias Coates, who held a mortgage
on Beach Haven; of the dance the night before--Max leading in the conversation and she answering
either in mono-syllables or not at all, until Max hazarded the statement that he had been bored
to death waiting for Morton, who never put in an appearance, and that the only human being,
male or female, he had seen in town outside the members of the club, was Sue.

They had arrived off the Life-Saving Station now, and Archie had called the captain to the
door, and both stood looking at them, the boy waving his hand and the captain following them
with his eyes. Had either of them caught the captain's remark they, perhaps, would have drawn
rein and asked for an explanation:

"Gay lookin' hose-carriage, ain't it? Looks as if they was runnin' to a fire!"

But they didn't hear it; would not, probably have heard it, had the captain shouted it in their
ears. Lucy was intent on opening up a subject which had lain dormant in her mind since the
morning of Max's departure, and the gentleman himself was trying to cipher out what new "kink,"
as he expressed it to himself, had "got it into her head."

When they had passed the old House of Refuge Lucy drew rein and stopped the drag where the
widening circle of the incoming tide could bathe the horses' feet. She was still uncertain
as to how she would lead up to the subject-matter without betraying her own jealousy or, more
important still, without losing her temper. This she rarely displayed, no matter how goading
the provocation. Nobody had any use for an ill-tempered woman, not in her atmosphere; and no
fly that she had ever known had been caught by vinegar when seeking honey. There might be vinegar-pots
to be found in her larder, but they were kept behind closed doors and sampled only when she
was alone. As she sat looking out to sea, Max's brain still at work on the problem of her unusual
mood, a schooner shifted her mainsail in the light breeze and set her course for the inlet.

"That's the regular weekly packet," Max ventured. "She's making for Farguson's ship-yard. She
runs between Amboy and Barnegat--Captain Ambrose Farguson sails her." At times like these any
topic was good enough to begin on.

"How do you know?" Lucy asked, looking at the incoming schooner from under her half-closed
lids. The voice came like the thin piping of a flute preceding the orchestral crash, merely
sounded so as to let everybody know it was present.

"One of my carriages was shipped by her. I paid Captain Farguson the freight just before I
went away."

"What's her name?"--slight tremolo--only a note or two.

"The Polly Walters," droned Max, talking at random, mind neither on the sloop nor her captain.

"Named after his wife?" The flute-like notes came more crisply.

"Yes, so he told me." Max had now ceased to give any attention to his answers. He had about
made up his mind that something serious was the matter and that he would ask her and find out.

"Ought to be called the Max Feilding, from the way she tacks about. She's changed her course
three times since I've been watching her."

Max shot a glance athwart his shoulder and caught a glimpse of the pretty lips thinned and
straightened and the half-closed eyes and wrinkled forehead. He was evidently the disturbing
cause, but in what way he could not for the life of him see. That she was angry to the tips
of her fingers was beyond question; the first time he had seen her thus in all their acquaintance.

"Yes-that would fit her exactly," he answered with a smile and with a certain soothing tone
in his voice. "Every tack her captain makes brings him the nearer to the woman he loves."

"Rather poetic, Max, but slightly farcical. Every tack you make lands you in a different port--with
a woman waiting in every one of them." The first notes of the overture had now been struck.

"No one was waiting in Philadelphia for me except Sue, and I only met her by accident," he
said good-naturedly, and in a tone that showed he would not quarrel, no matter what the provocation;
"she came in to see her doctor. Didn't stay an hour."

"Did you take her driving?" This came in a thin, piccolo tone-barely enough room for it to
escape through her lips. All the big drums and heavy brass were now being moved up.

"No; had nothing to take her out in. Why do you ask? What has happened, little--"

"Take anybody else?" she interrupted.

"No."

He spoke quite frankly and simply. At any other time she would have believed him. She had always
done so in matters of this kind, partly because she didn't much care and partly because she
made it a point never to doubt the word of a man, either by suspicion or inference, who was
attentive to her. This time she did care, and she intended to tell him so. All she dreaded
was that the big horns and the tom-toms would get away from her leadership and the hoped-for,
correctly played symphony end in an uproar.

"Max," she said, turning her head and lifting her finger at him with the movement of a conductor's
baton, "how can you lie to me like that? You never went near your lawyer; you went to see Miss
Billeton, and you've spent every minute with her since you left me. Don't tell me you didn't.
I know everything you've done, and--" Bass drums, bass viols, bassoons--everything--was loose now.

She had given up her child to be with him! Everything, in fact--all her people at Yardley;
her dear old nurse. She had lied to Jane about chaperoning Sue--all to come down and keep him
from being lonely. What she wanted was a certain confidence in return. It made not the slightest
difference to her how many women he loved, or how many women loved him; she didn't love him,
and she never would; but unless she was treated differently from a child and like the woman
that she was, she was going straight back to Yardley, and then back to Paris, etc., etc.

She knew, as she rushed on in a flood of abuse such as only a woman can let loose when she
is thoroughly jealous and entirely angry, that she was destroying the work of months of plotting,
and that he would be lost to her forever, but she was powerless to check the torrent of her
invective. Only when her breath gave out did she stop.

Max had sat still through it all, his eyes expressing first astonishment and then a certain
snap of admiration, as he saw the color rising and falling in her cheeks. It was not the only
time in his experience that he had had to face similar outbursts. It was the first time, however,
that he had not felt like striking back. Other women's outbreaks had bored him and generally
had ended his interest in them--this one was more charming than ever. He liked, too, her American
pluck and savage independence. Jealous she certainly was, but there was no whine about it;
nor was there any flop at the close--floppy women he detested--had always done so. Lucy struck
straight out from her shoulder and feared nothing.

As she raged on, the grays beating the water with their well-polished hoofs, he continued to
sit perfectly still, never moving a muscle of his face nor changing his patient, tolerant expression.
The best plan, he knew, was to let all the steam out of the boiler and then gradually rake
the fires.

"My dear little woman,"' he began, "to tell you the truth, I never laid eyes on Morton; didn't
want to, in fact. All that was an excuse to get away. I thought you wanted a rest, and I went
away to let you have it. Miss Billeton I haven't seen for three months, and couldn't if I would,
for she is engaged to her cousin and is now in Paris buying her wedding clothes. I don't know
who has been humbugging you, but they've done it very badly. There is not one word of truth
in what you've said from beginning to end."

There is a certain ring in a truthful statement that overcomes all doubts. Lucy felt this before
Max had finished. She felt, too, with a sudden thrill, that she still held him. Then there
came the instantaneous desire to wipe out all traces of the outburst and keep his good-will.

"And you swear it?" she asked, her belief already asserting itself in her tones, her voice
falling to its old seductive pitch.

"On my honor as a man," he answered simply.

For a time she remained silent, her mind working behind her mask of eyes and lips, the setting
sun slanting across the beach and lighting up her face and hair, the grays splashing the suds
with their impatient feet. Max kept his gaze upon her. He saw that the outbreak was over and
that she was a little ashamed of her tirade. He saw, too, man of the world as he was, that
she was casting about in her mind for some way in which she could regain for herself her old
position without too much humiliation.

"Don't say another word, little woman," he said in his kindest tone. "You didn't mean a word
of it; you haven't been well lately, and I oughtn't to have left you. Tighten up your reins;
we'll drive on if you don't mind."

That night after the moon had set and the lights had been turned out along the boardwalk and
the upper and lower porticos and all Beach Haven had turned in for the night, and Lucy had
gone to her apartments, and Mr. and Mrs. Coates and the rest of them, single and double, were
asleep, Max, who had been pacing up and down his dressing-room, stopped suddenly before his
mirror, and lifting the shade from the lamp, made a critical examination of his face.

"Forty, and I look it!" he said, pinching his chin with his thumb and forefinger, and turning
his cheek so that the light would fall on the few gray hairs about his temples. "That beggar
Miggs said so yesterday at the club. By gad, how pretty she was, and how her eyes snapped!
I didn't think it was in her!"

CHAPTER XVIII

THE SWEDE'S STORY

Captain Holt had selected his crew--picked surfmen, every one of them--and the chief of the
bureau had endorsed the list without comment or inquiry. The captain's own appointment as keeper
of the new Life-Saving Station was due as much to his knowledge of men as to his skill as a
seaman, and so when his list was sent in--men he said he could "vouch for"--it took but a moment
for the chief to write "Approved" across its face.

Isaac Polhemus came first: Sixty years of age, silent, gray, thick-set; face scarred and seamed
by many weathers, but fresh as a baby's; two china-blue eyes--peep-holes through which you
looked into his open heart; shoulders hard and tough as cordwood hands a bunch of knots; legs
like snubbing-posts, body quick-moving; brain quick-thinking; alert as a dog when on duty,
calm as a sleepy cat beside a stove when his time was his own. Sixty only in years, this man;
forty in strength and in skill, twenty in suppleness, and a one-year-old toddling infant in
all that made for guile. "Uncle Ike" some of the younger men once called him, wondering behind
their hands whether he was not too old and believing all the time that he was. "Uncle Ike"
they still called him, but it was a title of affection and pride; affection for the man underneath
the blue woollen shirt, and pride because they were deemed worthy to pull an oar beside him.

The change took place the winter before when he was serving at Manasquan and when he pulled
four men single-handed from out of a surf that would have staggered the bravest. There was
no life-boat within reach and no hand to help. It was at night--a snowstorm raging and the
sea a corral of hungry beasts fighting the length of the beach. The shipwrecked crew had left
their schooner pounding on the outer bar, and finding their cries drowned by the roar of the
waters, had taken to their boat. She came bow on, the sea-drenched sailors clinging to her
sides. Uncle Isaac Polhemus caught sight of her just as a savage pursuing roller dived under
her stern, lifted the frail shell on its broad back, and whirled it bottom side up and stern
foremost on to the beach. Dashing into the suds, he jerked two of the crew to their feet before
they knew what had struck them; then sprang back for the others clinging to the seats and slowly
drowning in the smother. Twice he plunged headlong after them, bracing himself against the
backsuck, then with the help of his steel-like grip all four were dragged clear of the souse.
Ever after it was "Uncle Isaac" or "that old hang-on," but always with a lifting of the chin
in pride.

Samuel Green came next: Forty-five, long, Lincoln-bodied, and bony; coal-black hair, coal-black
eyes, and charcoal-black mustache; neck like a loop in standing rigging; arms long as cant-hooks,
with the steel grips for fingers; sluggish in movement and slow in action until the supreme
moment of danger tautened his nerves to breaking point; then came an instantaneous spring,
quick as the recoil of a parted hawser. All his life a fisherman except the five years he spent
in the Arctic and the year he served at Squan; later he had helped in the volunteer crew alongshore.
Loving the service, he had sent word over to Captain Holt that he'd like "to be put on," to
which the captain had sent back word by the same messenger "Tell him he IS put on." And he
WAS, as soon as the papers were returned from Washington. Captain Nat had no record to look
up or inquiries to make as to the character or fitness of Sam Green. He was the man who the
winter before had slipped a rope about his body, plunged into the surf and swam out to the
brig Gorgus and brought back three out of the five men lashed to the rigging, all too benumbed
to make fast the shot-line fired across her deck.

Charles Morgan's name followed in regular order, and then Parks--men who had sailed with Captain
Holt, and whose word and pluck he could depend upon; and Mulligan from Barnegat, who could
pull a boat with the best of them; and last, and least in years, those two slim, tightly knit,
lithe young tiger-cats, Tod and Archie.

Captain Nat had overhauled each man and had inspected him as closely as he would have done
the timber for a new mast or the manila to make its rigging. Here was a service that required
cool heads, honest hearts, and the highest technical skill, and the men under him must be sound
to the core. He intended to do his duty, and so should every man subject to his orders. The
Government had trusted him and he held himself responsible. This would probably be his last
duty, and it would be well done. He was childless, sixty-five years old, and had been idle
for years. Now he would show his neighbors something of his skill and his power to command.
He did not need the pay; he needed the occupation and the being in touch with the things about
him. For the last fifteen or more years he had nursed a sorrow and lived the life almost of
a recluse. It was time he threw it off.

During the first week of service, with his crew about him, he explained to them in minute detail
their several duties. Each day in the week would have its special work: Monday would be beach
drill, practising with the firing gun and line and the safety car. Tuesday was boat drill;
running the boat on its wagon to the edge of the sea, unloading it, and pushing it into the
surf, each man in his place, oars poised, the others springing in and taking their seats beside
their mates. On Wednesdays flag drills; practising with the international code of signals,
so as to communicate with stranded vessels. Thursdays, beach apparatus again. Friday, resuscitation
of drowning men. Saturday, scrub-day; every man except himself and the cook (each man was cook
in turn for a week) on his knees with bucket and brush, and every floor, chair, table, and
window scoured clean. Sunday, a day of rest, except for the beach patrol, which at night never
ceased, and which by day only ceased when the sky was clear of snow and fog.

This night patrol would be divided into watches of four hours each at eight, twelve, and four.
Two of the crew were to make the tramp of the beach, separating opposite the Station, one going
south two and a half miles to meet the surfman from the next Station, and the other going north
to the inlet; exchanging their brass checks each with the other, as a record of their faithfulness.

In addition to these brass checks each patrol would carry three Coston signal cartridges in
a water-proof box, and a holder into which they were fitted, the handle having an igniter working
on a spring to explode the cartridge, which burned a red light. These will-o'-the-wisps, flashed
suddenly from out a desolate coast, have sent a thrill of hope through the heart of many a
man clinging to frozen rigging or lashed to some piece of wreckage that the hungry surf, lying
in wait, would pounce upon and chew to shreds.

The men listened gravely to the captain's words and took up their duties. Most of them knew
them before, and no minute explanations were necessary. Skilled men understand the value of
discipline and prefer it to any milder form of government. Archie was the only member who raised
his eyes in astonishment when the captain, looking his way, mentioned the scrubbing and washing,
each man to take his turn, but he made no reply except to nudge Tod and say under his breath:

"Wouldn't you like to see Aunt Lucy's face when she comes some Saturday morning? She'll be
pleased, won't she?" As to the cooking, that did not bother him; he and Tod had cooked many
a meal on Fogarty's stove, and mother Fogarty had always said Archie could beat her any day
making biscuit and doughnuts and frying ham.

Before the second week was out the Station had fallen into its regular routine. The casual
visitor during the sunny hours of the soft September days when practice drill was over might
see only a lonely house built on the sand; and upon entering, a few men leaning back in their
chairs against the wall of the living-room reading the papers or smoking their pipes, and perhaps
a few others leisurely overhauling the apparatus, making minor repairs, or polishing up some
detail the weather had dulled. At night, too, with the radiance of the moon making a pathway
of silver across the gentle swell of the sleepy surf, he would doubtless wonder at their continued
idle life as he watched the two surfmen separate and begin their walk up and down the beach
radiant in the moonlight. But he would change his mind should he chance upon a north-easterly
gale, the sea a froth in which no boat could live, the slant of a sou'wester the only protection
against the cruel lash of the wind. If this glimpse was not convincing, let him stand in the
door of their house in the stillness of a winter's night, and catch the shout and rush of the
crew tumbling from their bunks at the cry of "Wreck ashore!" from the lips of some breathless
patrol who had stumbled over sand-dunes or plunged through snowdrifts up to his waist to give
warning. It will take less than a minute to swing wide the doors, grapple the life-boat and
apparatus and whirl them over the dunes to the beach; and but a moment more to send a solid
shot flying through the air on its mission of mercy. And there is no time lost. Ten men have
been landed in forty-five minutes through or over a surf that could be heard for miles; rescuers
and rescued half dead. But no man let go his grip nor did any heart quail. Their duty was in
front of them; that was what the Government paid for, and that was what they would earn--every
penny of it.

The Station house in order, the captain was ready for visitors--those he wanted. Those he did
not want--the riffraff of the ship-yard and the loungers about the taverns--he told politely
to stay away; and as the land was Government property and his will supreme, he was obeyed.

Little Ellen had been the first guest, and by special invitation.

"All ready, Miss Jane, for you and the doctor and the Pond Lily; bring her down any time. That's
what kind o' makes it lonely lyin' shut up with the men. We ain't got no flowers bloomin' 'round,
and the sand gits purty white and blank-lookin' sometimes. Bring her down, you and the doctor;
she's better'n a pot full o' daisies."

The doctor, thus commanded, brought her over in his gig, Jane, beside him, holding the child
in her lap. And Archie helped them out, lifting his good mother in his arms clear of the wheel,
skirts and all--the crew standing about looking on. Some of them knew Jane and came in for
a hearty handshake, and all of them knew the doctor. There was hardly a man among them whose
cabin he had not visited--not once, but dozens of times.

With her fair cheeks, golden curls, and spotless frock, the child, among those big men, some
in their long hip boots and rough reefing jackets, looked like some fairy that had come in
with the morning mist and who might be off on the next breeze.

Archie had her hugged close to his breast and had started in to show her the cot where he slept,
the kitchen where he was to cook, and the peg in the hall where he hung his sou'wester and
tarpaulins--every surfman had his peg, order being imperative with Captain Nat--when that old
sea-dog caught the child out of the young fellow's arms and placed her feet on the sand.

"No, Cobden,"--that was another peculiarity of the captain's,--every man went by his last name,
and he had begun with Archie to show the men he meant it. "No, that little posy is mine for
to-day. Come along, you rosebud; I'm goin' to show you the biggest boat you ever saw, and a
gun on wheels; and I've got a lot o' shells the men has been pickin' up for ye. Oh, but you're
goin' to have a beautiful time, lassie!"

The child looked up in the captain's face, and her wee hand tightened around his rough stubs
of fingers. Archie then turned to Jane and with Tod's help the three made a tour of the house,
the doctor following, inspecting the captain's own room with its desk and papers, the kitchen
with all its appointments, the outhouse for wood and coal, the staircase leading to the sleeping-rooms
above, and at the very top the small ladder leading to the cupola on the roof, where the lookout
kept watch on clear days for incoming steamers. On their return Mulligan spread a white oil-cloth
on the pine table and put out a china plate filled with some cake that he had baked the night
before, and which Green supplemented by a pitcher of water from the cistern.

Each one did something to please her. Archie handed her the biggest piece of cake on the dish,
and Uncle Isaac left the room in a hurry and stumbling upstairs went through his locker and
hauled out the head of a wooden doll which he had picked up on the beach in one of his day
patrols and which he had been keeping for one of his grand-children--all blighted with the
sun and scarred with salt water, but still showing a full set of features, much to Ellen's
delight; and Sam Green told her of his own little girl, just her age, who lived up in the village
and whom he saw every two weeks, and whose hair was just the color of hers. Meanwhile the doctor
chatted with the men, and Jane, with her arm locked in Archie's, so proud and so tender over
him, inspected each appointment and comfort of the house with ever-increasing wonder.

And so, with the visit over, the gig was loaded up, and with Ellen waving her hand to the men
and kissing her finger-tips in true French style to the captain and Archie, and the crew responding
in a hearty cheer, the party drove, past the old House of Refuge, and so on back to Warehold
and Yardley.

One August afternoon, some days after this visit, Tod stood in the door of the Station looking
out to sea. The glass had been falling all day and a dog-day haze had settled down over the
horizon. This, as the afternoon advanced, had become so thick that the captain had ordered
out the patrols, and Archie and Green were already tramping the beach--Green to the inlet and
Archie to meet the surfmen of the station below. Park, who was cook this week, had gone to
the village for supplies, and so the captain and Tod were alone in the house, the others, with
the exception of Morgan, who was at his home in the village with a sprained ankle, being at
work some distance away on a crosshead over which the life-line was always fired in gun practice.

Suddenly Tod, who was leaning against the jamb of the door speculating over what kind of weather
the night would bring, and wondering whether the worst of it would fall in his watch, jerked
his neck out of his woollen shirt and strained his eyes in the direction of the beach until
they rested upon the figure of a man slowly making his way over the dunes. As he passed the
old House of Refuge, some hundreds of yards below, he stopped for a moment as if undecided
on his course, looked ahead again at the larger house of the Station, and then, as if reassured,
came stumbling on, his gait showing his want of experience in avoiding the holes and tufts
of grass cresting the dunes. His movements were so awkward and his walk so unusual in that
neighborhood that Tod stepped out on the low porch of the Station to get a better view of him.

From the man's dress, and from his manner of looking about him, as if feeling his way, Tod
concluded that he was a stranger and had tramped the beach for the first time. At the sight
of the surfman the man left the dune, struck the boat path, and walked straight toward the porch.

"Kind o' foggy, ain't it?"

"Yes," replied Tod, scrutinizing the man's face and figure, particularly his clothes, which
were queerly cut and with a foreign air about them. He saw, too, that he was strong and well
built, and not over thirty years of age.

"You work here?" continued the stranger, mounting the steps and coming closer, his eyes taking
in Tod, the porch, and the view of the sitting-room through the open window.

"I do," answered Tod in the same tone, his eyes still on the man's face.

"Good job, is it?" he asked, unbuttoning his coat.

"I get enough to eat," answered Tod curtly, "and enough to do." He had resumed his position
against the jamb of the door and stood perfectly impassive, without offering any courtesy of
any kind. Strangers who asked questions were never very welcome. Then, again, the inquiry about
his private life nettled him.

The man, without noticing the slight rebuff, looked about for a seat, settled down on the top
step of the porch, pulled his cap from his head, and wiped the sweat from his forehead with
the back of one hand. Then he said slowly, as if to himself:

"I took the wrong road and got consid'able het up."

Tod watched him while he mopped his head with a red cotton handkerchief, but made no reply.
Curiosity is not the leading characteristic of men who follow the sea.

"Is the head man around? His name's Holt, ain't it?" continued the stranger, replacing his
cap and stuffing his handkerchief into the side-pocket of his coat.

As the words fell from his lips Tod's quick eye caught a sudden gleam like that of a search-light
flashed from beneath the heavy eyebrows of the speaker.

"That's his name," answered Tod. "Want to see him? He's inside." The surfman had not yet changed
his position nor moved a muscle of his body. Tiger cats are often like this.

Captain Holt's burly form stepped from the door. He had overheard the conversation, and not
recognizing the voice had come to find out what the man wanted.

"You lookin' for me? I'm Captain Holt. What kin I do for ye?" asked the captain in his quick,
imperious way.

"That's what he said, sir," rejoined Tod, bringing himself to an erect position in deference
to his chief.

The stranger rose from his seat and took his cap from his head.

"I'm out o' work, sir, and want a job, and I thought you might take me on."

Tod was now convinced that the stranger was a foreigner. No man of Tod's class ever took his
hat off to his superior officer. They had other ways of showing their respect for his authority--instant
obedience, before and behind his back, for instance.

The captain's eyes absorbed the man from his thick shoes to his perspiring hair.

"Norwegian, ain't ye?"

"No, sir; Swede."

"Not much difference. When did ye leave Sweden? You talk purty good."

"When I was a boy."

"What kin ye do?"

"I'm a good derrick man and been four years with a coaler."

"You want steady work, I suppose."

The stranger nodded.

"Well, I ain't got it. Gov'ment app'ints our men. This is a Life-Saving Station."

The stranger stood twisting his cap. The first statement seemed to make but little impression
on him; the second aroused a keener interest.

"Yes, I know. Just new built, ain't it? and you just put in charge? Captain Nathaniel Holt's
your name--am I right?"

"Yes, you're just right." And the captain, dismissing the man and the incident from his mind,
turned on his heel, walked the length of the narrow porch and stood scanning the sky and the
blurred horizon line. The twilight was now deepening and a red glow shimmered through the settling
fog.

"Fogarty!" cried the captain, beckoning over his shoulder with his head.

Tod stepped up and stood at attention; as quick in reply as if two steel springs were fastened
to his heels.

"Looks rather soapy, Fogarty. May come on thick. Better take a turn to the inlet and see if
that yawl is in order. We might have to cross it to-night. We can't count on this weather.
When you meet Green send him back here. That shot-line wants overhaulin'." Here the captain
hesitated and looked intently at the stranger. "And here, you Swede," he called in a louder
tone of command, "you go 'long and lend a hand, and when you come back I'll have some supper
for ye."

One of Tod's springs must have slid under the Swede's shoes. Either the prospect of a meal
or of having a companion to whom he could lend a hand--nothing so desolate as a man out of
work--a stranger at that--had put new life into his hitherto lethargic body.

"This way," said Tod, striding out toward the surf.

The Swede hurried to his side and the two crossed the boat runway, ploughed through the soft
drift of the dune, and striking the hard, wet sand of the beach, headed for the inlet. Tod
having his high, waterproof boots on, tramped along the edge of the incoming surf, the half-circles
of suds swashing past his feet and spreading themselves up the slope. The sand was wet here
and harder on that account, and the walking better. The Swede took the inside course nearer
the shore. Soon Tod began to realize that the interest the captain had shown in the unknown
man and the brief order admitting him for a time to membership in the crew placed the stranger
on a different footing. He was, so to speak, a comrade and, therefore, entitled to a little
more courtesy. This clear in his mind, he allowed his tongue more freedom; not that he had
any additional interest in the man--he only meant to be polite.

"What you been workin' at?" he asked, kicking an empty tin can that the tide had rolled within
his reach. Work is the universal topic; the weather is too serious a subject to chatter about
lightly.

"Last year or two?" asked the Swede, quickening his pace to keep up. Tod's steel springs always
kept their original temper while the captain's orders were being executed and never lost their
buoyancy until these orders were entirely carried out.

"Yes," replied Tod.

"Been a-minin'; runnin' the ore derricks and the shaft h'isters. What you been doin'?" And
the man glanced at Tod from under his cap.

"Fishin'. See them poles out there? You kin just git sight o' them in the smoke. Them's my
father's. He's out there now, I guess, if he ain't come in."

"You live 'round here?" The man's legs were shorter than Tod's, and he was taking two steps
to Tod's one.

"Yes, you passed the House o' Refuge, didn't ye, comin' up? I was watchin' ye. Well, you saw
that cabin with the fence 'round it?"

"Yes; the woman told me where I'd find the cap'n. You know her, I s'pose?" asked the Swede.

"Yes, she's my mother, and that's my home. I was born there." Tod's words were addressed to
the perspective of the beach and to the way the haze blurred the horizon; surfmen rarely see
anything else when walking on the beach, whether on or off duty.

"You know everybody 'round here, don't you?" remarked the Swede in a casual tone. The same
quick, inquiring glance shot out of the man's eyes.

"Yes, guess so," answered Tod with another kick. Here the remains of an old straw hat shared
the fate of the can.

"You ever heard tell of a woman named Lucy Cobden, lives 'round here somewheres?"

Tod came to a halt as suddenly as if he had run into a derelict.

"I don't know no WOMAN," he answered slowly, accentuating the last word. "I know a LADY named
Miss Jane Cobden. Why?" and he scrutinized the man's face.

"One I mean's got a child--big now--must be fifteen or twenty years old--girl, ain't it?"

"No, it's a boy. He's one of the crew here; his name's Archie Cobden. Me and him's been brothers
since we was babies. What do you know about him?" Tod had resumed his walk, but at a slower pace.

"Nothin'; that's why I ask." The man had also become interested in the flotsam of the beach,
and had stopped to pick up a dam-shell which he shied into the surf. Then he added slowly,
and as if not to make a point of the inquiry, "Is she alive?"

"Yes. Here this week. Lives up in Warehold in that big house with the brick gate-posts."

The man walked on for some time in silence and then asked:

"You're sure the child is livin' and that the mother's name is Jane?"

"Sure? Don't I tell ye Cobden's in the crew and Miss Jane was here this week! He's up the beach
on patrol or you'd 'a' seen him when you fust struck the Station."

The stranger quickened his steps. The information seemed to have put new life into him again.

"Did you ever hear of a man named Bart Holt," he asked, "who used to be 'round here?" Neither
man was looking at the other as they talked. The conversation was merely to pass the time of day.

"Yes; he's the captain's son. Been dead for years. Died some'er's out in Brazil, so I've heard
my father say. Had fever or something."

The Swede walked on in silence for some minutes. Then he stopped, faced Tod, took hold of the
lapel of his coat, and said slowly, as he peered into his eyes:

"He ain't dead, no more'n you and I be. I worked for him for two years. He run the mines on
a percentage. I got here last week, and he sent me down to find out how the land lay. If the
woman was dead I was to say nothing and come back. If she was alive I was to tell the captain,
his father, where a letter could reach him. They had some bad blood 'twixt 'em, but he didn't
tell me what it was about. He may come home here to live, or he may go back to the mines; it's
just how the old man takes it. That's what I've got to say to him. How do you think he'll take it?"

For a moment Tod made no reply. He was trying to make up his mind what part of the story was
true and what part was skilfully put together to provide, perhaps, additional suppers. The
improbability of the whole affair struck him with unusual force. Raising hopes of a long-lost
son in the breast of a father was an old dodge and often meant the raising of money.

"Well, I can't say," Tod answered carelessly; he had his own opinion now of the stranger. "You'll
have to see the captain about that. If the man's alive it's rather funny he ain't showed up
all these years."

"Well, keep mum 'bout it, will ye, till I talk to him? Here comes one o' your men."

Green's figure now loomed up out of the mist.

"Where away, Tod?" the approaching surfman cried when he joined the two.

"Captain wants me to look after the yawl," answered Tod.

"It's all right," cried Green; "I just left it. Went down a-purpose. Who's yer friend?"

"A man the cap'n sent along to lend a hand. This is Sam Green," and he turned to the Swede
and nodded to his brother surfman.

The two shook hands. The stranger had not volunteered his name and Tod had not asked for it.
Names go for little among men who obey orders; they serve merely as labels and are useful in
a payroll, but they do not add to the value of the owner or help his standing in any way. "Shorty"
or "Fatty" or "Big Mike" is all sufficient. What the man can DO and how he does it, is more
important.

"No use goin' to the inlet," continued Green. "I'll report to the captain. Come along back.
I tell ye it's gettin' thick," and he looked out across the breakers, only the froth line showing
in the dim twilight.

The three turned and retraced their steps.

Tod quickened his pace and stepped into the house ahead of the others. Not only did he intend
to tell the captain of what he had heard, but he intended to tell him at once.

Captain Holt was in his private room, sitting at his desk, busy over his monthly report. A
swinging kerosene lamp hanging from the ceiling threw a light full on his ruddy face framed
in a fringe of gray whiskers. Tod stepped in and closed the door behind him.

"I didn't go to the inlet, sir. Green had thought of the yawl and had looked after it; he'll
report to you about it. I just heard a strange yarn from that fellow you sent with me and I
want to tell ye what it is."

The captain laid down his pen, pushed his glasses from his eyes, and looked squarely into Tod's
face.

"He's been askin' 'bout Miss Jane Cobden and Archie, and says your son Bart is alive and sent
him down here to find out how the land lay. It's a cock-and-bull story, but I give it to you
just as I got it."

Once in the South Seas the captain awoke to look into the muzzle of a double-barrelled shot-gun
held in the hand of the leader of a mutiny. The next instant the man was on the floor, the
captain's fingers twisted in his throat.

Tod's eyes were now the barrels of that gun. No cat-like spring followed; only a cold, stony
stare, as if he were awaking from a concussion that had knocked the breath out of him.

"He says Bart's ALIVE!" he gasped. "Who? That feller I sent with ye?"

"Yes."

The captain's face grew livid and then flamed up, every vein standing clear, his eyes blazing.

"He's a liar! A dirty liar! Bring him in!" Each word hissed from his lips like an explosive.

Tod opened the door of the sitting-room and the Swede stepped in. The captain whirled his chair
suddenly and faced him. Anger, doubt, and the flicker of a faint hope were crossing his face
with the movement of heat lightning.

"You know my son, you say?"

"I do." The answer was direct and the tone positive.

"What's his name?"

"Barton Holt. He signs it different, but that's his name."

"How old is he?" The pitch of the captain's voice had altered. He intended to riddle the man's
statement with a cross-fire of examination.

"'Bout forty, maybe forty-five. He never told

"What kind of eyes?"

"Brown, like yours."

"What kind of hair?"

"Curly. It's gray now; he had fever, and it turned."

"Where--when?" Hope and fear were now struggling for the mastery.

"Two years ago--when I first knew him; we were in hospital together."

"What's he been doin'?" The tone was softer. Hope seemed to be stronger now.

"Mining out in Brazil."

The captain took his eyes from the face of the man and asked in something of his natural tone
of voice:

"Where is he now?"

The Swede put his hand in his inside pocket and took out a small time-book tied around with
a piece of faded tape. This he slowly unwound, Tod's and the captain's eyes following every
turn of his fingers. Opening the book, he glanced over the leaves, found the one he was looking
for, tore it carefully from the book, and handed it to the captain.

"That's his writing. If you want to see him send him a line to that address. It'll reach him
all right. If you don't want to see him he'll go back with me to Rio. I don't want yer supper
and I don't want yer job. I done what I promised and that's all there is to it. Good-night,"
and he opened the door and disappeared in the darkness.

Captain Holt sat with his head on his chest looking at the floor in front of him. The light
of the banging lamp made dark shadows under his eyebrows and under his chin whiskers. There
was a firm set to his clean-shaven lips, but the eyes burned with a gentle light; a certain
hope, positive now, seemed to be looming up in them.

Tod watched him for an instant, and said:

"What do ye think of it, cap'n?"

"I ain't made up my mind."

"Is he lyin'?"

"I don't know. Seems too good to be true. He's got some things right; some things he ain't.
Keep your mouth shut till I tell ye to open it--to Cobden, mind ye, and everybody else. Better
help Green overhaul that line. That'll do, Fogarty."

Tod dipped his head--his sign of courteous assent--and backed out of the room. The captain
continued motionless, his eyes fixed on space. Once he turned, picked up the paper, scrutinized
the handwriting word for word, and tossed it back on the desk. Then he rose from his seat and
began pacing the floor, stopping to gaze at a chart on the wall, at the top of the stove, at
the pendulum of the clock, surveying them leisurely. Once he looked out of the window at the
flare of light from his swinging lamp, stencilled on the white sand and the gray line of the
dunes beyond. At each of these resting-places his face assumed a different expression; hope,
fear, and anger again swept across it as his judgment struggled with his heart. In one of his
turns up and down the small room he laid his hand on a brick lying on the window-sill--one
that had been sent by the builders of the Station as a sample. This he turned over carefully,
examining the edges and color as if he had seen it for the first time and had to pass judgment
upon its defects or merits. Laying it back in its place, he threw himself into his chair again,
exclaiming aloud, as if talking to someone:

"It ain't true. He'd wrote before if he were alive. He was wild and keerless, but he never
was dirt-mean, and he wouldn't a-treated me so all these years. The Swede's a liar, I tell ye!"

Wheeling the chair around to face the desk, he picked up a pen, dipped it into the ink, laid
it back on the desk, picked it up again, opened a drawer on his right, took from it a sheet
of official paper, and wrote a letter of five lines. This he enclosed in the envelope, directed
to the name on the slip of paper. Then he opened the door.

"Fogarty."

"Yes, cap'n."

"Take this to the village and drop it in the post yourself. The weather's clearin', and you
won't be wanted for a while," and he strode out and joined his men.

CHAPTER XIX

THE BREAKING OF THE DAWN

September weather on Barnegat beach! Fine gowns and fine hats on the wide piazzas of Beach
Haven! Too cool for bathing, but not too cool to sit on the sand and throw pebbles and loll
under kindly umbrellas; air fresh and bracing, with a touch of June in it; skies full of mares'-tails--slips
of a painter's brush dragged flat across the film of blue; sea gone to rest; not a ripple,
no long break of the surf, only a gentle lift and fall like the breathing of a sleeping child.

Uncle Isaac shook his head when he swept his eye round at all this loveliness; then he turned
on his heel and took a look at the aneroid fastened to the wall of the sitting-room of the
Life-Saving Station. The arrow showed a steady shrinkage. The barometer had fallen six points.

"What do ye think, Captain Holt?" asked the old surfman.

"I ain't thinkin', Polhemus; can't tell nothin' 'bout the weather this month till the moon
changes; may go on this way for a week or two, or it may let loose and come out to the sou'-east
I've seen these dog-days last till October."

Again Uncle Isaac shook his head, and this time kept his peace; now that his superior officer
had spoken he had no further opinion to express.

Sam Green dropped his feet to the floor, swung himself over to the barometer, gazed at it for
a moment, passed out of the door, swept his eye around, and resumed his seat--tilted back against
the wall. What his opinion might be was not for publication--not in the captain's hearing.

Captain Holt now consulted the glass, picked up his cap bearing the insignia of his rank, and
went out through the kitchen to the land side of the house. The sky and sea--feathery clouds
and still, oily flatness--did not interest him this September morning. It was the rolling dune
that caught his eye, and the straggly path that threaded its way along the marshes and around
and beyond the clump of scrub pines and bushes until it was lost in the haze that hid the village.
This land inspection had been going on for a month, and always when Tod was returning from
the post-office with the morning mail. The men had noticed it, but no one had given vent to
his thoughts.

Tod, of course, knew the cause of the captain's impatience, but no one of the others did, not
even Archie; time enough for that when the Swede's story was proved true. If the fellow had
lied that was an end to it; if he had told the truth Bart would answer, and the mystery be
cleared up. This same silence had been maintained toward Jane and the doctor; better not raise
hopes he could not verify--certainly not in Jane's breast.

Not that he had much hope himself; he dared not hope. Hope meant a prop to his old age; hope
meant joy to Jane, who would welcome the prodigal; hope meant relief to the doctor, who could
then claim his own; hope meant redemption for Lucy, a clean name for Archie, and honor to himself
and his only son.

No wonder, then, that he watched for an answer to his letter with feverish impatience. His
own missive had been blunt and to the point, asking the direct question: "Are you alive or
dead, and if alive, why did you fool me with that lie about your dying of fever in a hospital
and keep me waiting all these years?" Anything more would have been superfluous in the captain's
judgment--certainly until he received some more definite information as to whether the man
was his son.

Half a dozen times this lovely September morning the captain had strolled leisurely out of
the back door and had mounted the low hillock for a better view. Suddenly a light flashed in
his face, followed by a look in his eyes that they had not known for weeks--not since the Swede
left. The light came when his glance fell upon Tod's lithe figure swinging along the road;
the look kindled when he saw Tod stop and wave his hand triumphantly over his head.

The letter had arrived!

With a movement as quick as that of a horse touched by a whip, he started across the sand to
meet the surfman.

"Guess we got it all right this time, captain," cried Tod. "It's got the Nassau postmark, anyhow.
There warn't nothin' else in the box but the newspapers," and he handed the package to his chief.

The two walked to the house and entered the captain's office. Tod hung back, but the captain
laid his hand on his shoulder.

"Come in with me, Fogarty. Shut the door. I'll send these papers in to the men soon's I open this."

Tod obeyed mechanically. There was a tone in the captain's voice that was new to him. It sounded
as if he were reluctant to be left alone with the letter.

"Now hand me them spectacles."

Tod reached over and laid the glasses in his chief's hand. The captain settled himself deliberately
in his revolving chair, adjusted his spectacles, and slit the envelope with his thumb-nail.
Out came a sheet of foolscap closely written on both sides. This he read to the end, turning
the page as carefully as if it had been a set of official instructions, his face growing paler
and paler, his mouth tight shut. Tod stood beside him watching the lights and shadows playing
across his face. The letter was as follows:

"Nassau, No. 4 Calle Valenzuela,

"Aug. 29, 18--.

"Father: Your letter was not what I expected, although it is, perhaps, all I deserve. I am
not going into that part of it, now I know that Lucy and my child are alive. What has been
done in the past I can't undo, and maybe I wouldn't if I could, for if I am worth anything
to-day it comes from what I have suffered; that's over now, and I won't rake it up, but I think
you would have written me some word of kindness if you had known what I have gone through since
I left you. I don't blame you for what you did--I don't blame anybody; all I want now is to
get back home among the people who knew me when I was a boy, and try and make up for the misery
I have caused you and the Cobdens. I would have done this before, but it has only been for
the last two years that I have had any money. I have got an interest in the mine now and am
considerably ahead, and I can do what I have always determined to do if I ever had the chance
and means--come home to Lucy and the child; it must be big now--and take them back with me
to Bolivia, where I have a good home and where, in a few years, I shall be able to give them
everything they need. That's due to her and to the child, and it's due to you; and if she'll
come I'll do my best to make her happy while she lives. I heard about five years ago from a
man who worked for a short time in Farguson's ship-yard how she was suffering, and what names
the people called the child, and my one thought ever since has been to do the decent thing
by both. I couldn't then, for I was living in a hut back in the mountains a thousand miles
from the coast, or tramping from place to place; so I kept still. He told me, too, how you
felt toward me, and I didn't want to come and have bad blood between us, and so I stayed on.
When Olssen Strom, my foreman, sailed for Perth Amboy, where they are making some machinery
for the company, I thought I'd try again, so I sent him to find out. One thing in your letter
is wrong. I never went to the hospital with yellow fever; some of the men had it aboard ship,
and I took one of them to the ward the night I ran away. The doctor at the hospital wanted
my name, and I gave it, and this may have been how they thought it was me, but I did not intend
to deceive you or anybody else, nor cover up any tracks. Yes, father, I'm coming home. If you'll
hold out your hand to me I'll take it gladly. I've had a hard time since I left you; you'd
forgive me if you knew how hard it has been. I haven't had anybody out here to care whether
I lived or died, and I would like to see how it feels. But if you don't I can't help it. My
hope is that Lucy and the boy will feel differently. There is a steamer sailing from here next
Wednesday; she goes direct to Amboy, and you may expect me on her. Your son,

"Barton."

"It's him, Tod," cried the captain, shaking the letter over his head; "it's him!" The tears
stood in his eyes now, his voice trembled; his iron nerve was giving way. "Alive, and comin'
home! Be here next week! Keep the door shut, boy, till I pull myself together. Oh, my God,
Tod, think of it! I haven't had a day's peace since I druv him out nigh on to twenty year ago.
He hurt me here"--and he pointed to his breast--"where I couldn't forgive him. But it's all
over now. He's come to himself like a man, and he's square and honest, and he's goin' to stay
home till everything is straightened out. O God! it can't be true! it CAN'T be true!"

He was sobbing now, his face hidden by his wrist and the cuff of his coat, the big tears striking
his pea-jacket and bounding off. It had been many years since these springs had yielded a drop--not
when anybody could see. They must have scalded his rugged cheeks as molten metal scalds a sand-pit.

Tod stood amazed. The outburst was a revelation. He had known the captain ever since he could
remember, but always as an austere, exacting man.

"I'm glad, captain," Tod said simply; "the men'll be glad, too. Shall I tell 'em?"

The captain raised his head.

"Wait a minute, son." His heart was very tender, all discipline was forgotten now; and then
he had known Tod from his boyhood. "I'll go myself and tell 'em," and he drew his hand across
his eyes as if to dry them. "Yes, tell 'em. Come, I'll go 'long with ye and tell 'em myself.
I ain't 'shamed of the way I feel, and the men won't be 'shamed neither."

The sitting-room was full when he entered. Dinner had been announced by Morgan, who was cook
that week, by shouting the glad tidings from his place beside the stove, and the men were sitting
about in their chairs. Two fishermen who had come for their papers occupied seats against the wall.

The captain walked to the corner of the table, stood behind his own chair and rested the knuckles
of one hand on the white oilcloth. The look on his face attracted every eye. Pausing for a
moment, he turned to Polhemus and spoke to him for the others:

"Isaac, I got a letter just now. Fogarty brought it over. You knew my boy Bart, didn't ye,
the one that's been dead nigh on to twenty years?"

The old surfman nodded, his eyes still fastened on the captain. This calling him "Isaac" was
evidence that something personal and unusual was coming. The men, too, leaned forward in attention;
the story of Bart's disappearance and death had been discussed up and down the coast for years.

"Well, he's alive," rejoined the captain with a triumphant tone in his voice, "and he'll be
here in a week--comin' to Amboy on a steamer. There ain't no mistake about it; here's his letter."

The announcement was received in dead silence. To be surprised was not characteristic of these
men, especially over a matter of this kind. Death was a part of their daily experience, and
a resurrection neither extraordinary nor uncommon. They were glad for the captain, if the captain
was glad--and he, evidently was. But what did Bart's turning up at this late day mean? Had
his money given out, or was he figuring to get something out of his father--something he couldn't
get as long as he remained dead?

The captain continued, his voice stronger and with a more positive ring in it:

"He's part owner in a mine now, and he's comin' home to see me and to straighten out some things
he's interested in." It was the first time in nearly twenty years that he had ever been able
to speak of his son with pride.

A ripple of pleasure went through the room. If the prodigal was bringing some money with him
and was not to be a drag on the captain, that put a new aspect on the situation. In that case
the father was to be congratulated.

"Well, that's a comfort to you, captain," cried Uncle Isaac in a cheery tone. "A good son is
a good thing. I never had one, dead or alive, but I'd 'a' loved him if I had had. I'm glad
for you, Captain Nat, and I know the men are." (Polhemus's age and long friendship gave him
this privilege. Then, of course, the occasion was not an official one.)

"Been at the mines, did ye say, captain?" remarked Green. Not that it was of any interest to
him; merely to show his appreciation of the captain's confidence. This could best be done by
prolonging the conversation.

"Yes, up in the mountains of Brazil some'er's, I guess, though he don't say," answered the
captain in a tone that showed that the subject was still open for discussion.

Mulligan now caught the friendly ball and tossed it back 'with:

"I knowed a feller once who was in Brazil--so he said. Purty hot down there, ain't it, captain?"

"Yes; on the coast. I ain't never been back in the interior."

Tod kept silent. It was not his time to speak, nor would it be proper for him, nor necessary.
His chief knew his opinion and sympathies and no word of his could add to their sincerity.

Archie was the only man in the room, except Uncle Isaac, who regarded the announcement as personal
to the captain. Boys without fathers and fathers without boys had been topics which had occupied
his mind ever since he could remember. That this old man had found one of his own whom he loved
and whom he wanted to get his arms around, was an inspiring thought to Archie.

"There's no one happier than I am, captain," he burst out enthusiastically. "I've often heard
of your son, and of his going away and of your giving him up for dead. I'm mighty glad for
you," and he grasped his chief's hand and shook it heartily.

As the lad's fingers closed around the rough hand of the captain a furtive look flashed from
out Morgan's eyes. It was directed to Parks--they were both Barnegat men--and was answered
by that surfman with a slow-falling wink. Tod saw it, and his face flushed. Certain stories
connected with Archie rose in his mind; some out of his childhood, others since he had joined
the crew.

The captain's eyes filled as he shook the boy's hand, but he made no reply to Archie's outburst.
Pausing for a moment, as if willing to listen to any further comments, and finding that no
one else had any word for him, he turned on his heel and reentered his office.

Once inside, he strode to the window and looked out on the dunes, his big hands hooked behind
his back, his eyes fixed on vacancy.

"It won't be long, now, Archie, not long, my lad," he said in a low voice, speaking aloud to
himself. "I kin say you're my grandson out loud when Bart comes, and nothin' kin or will stop
me! And now I kin tell Miss Jane."

Thrusting the letter into his inside pocket, he picked up his cap, and strode across the dune
in the direction of the new hospital.

Jane was in one of the wards when the captain sent word to her to come to the visiting-room.
She had been helping the doctor in an important operation. The building was but half way between
the Station and Warehold, which made it easier for the captain to keep his eye on the sea should
there be any change in the weather.

Jane listened to the captain's outburst covering the announcement that Bart was alive without
a comment. Her face paled and her breathing came short, but she showed no signs of either joy
or sorrow. She had faced too many surprises in her life to be startled at anything. Then again,
Bart alive or dead could make no difference now in either her own or Lucy's future.

The captain continued, his face brightening, his voice full of hope:

"And your troubles are all over now, Miss Jane; your name will be cleared up, and so will Archie's,
and the doctor'll git his own, and Lucy kin look everybody in the face. See what Bart says,"
and he handed her the open letter.

Jane read it word by word to the end and handed it back to the captain. Once in the reading
she had tightened her grasp on her chair as if to steady herself, but she did not flinch; she
even read some sentences twice, so that she might be sure of their meaning.

In his eagerness the captain had not caught the expression of agony that crossed her face as
her mind, grasping the purport of the letter, began to measure the misery that would follow
if Bart's plan was carried out.

"I knew how ye'd feel," he went on, "and I've been huggin' myself ever since it come when I
thought how happy ye'd be when I told ye; but I ain't so sure 'bout Lucy. What do you think?
Will she do what Bart wants?"

"No," said Jane in a quiet, restrained voice; "she will not do it."

"Why?" said the captain in a surprised tone. He was not accustomed to be thwarted in anything
he had fixed his mind upon, and he saw from Jane's expression that her own was in opposition.

"Because I won't permit it."

The captain leaned forward and looked at Jane in astonishment.

"You won't permit it!"

"No, I won't permit it."

"Why?" The word came from the captain as if it had been shot from a gun.

"Because it would not be right." Her eyes were still fixed on the captain's.

"Well, ain't it right that he should make some amends for what he's done?" he retorted with
increasing anger. "When he said he wouldn't marry her I druv him out; now he says he's sorry
and wants to do squarely by her and my hand's out to him. She ain't got nothin' in her life
that's doin' her any good. And that boy's got to be baptized right and take his father's name,
Archie Holt, out loud, so everybody kin hear."

Jane made no answer except to shake her head. Her eyes were still on the captain's, but her
mind was neither on him nor on what fell from his lips. She was again confronting that spectre
which for years had lain buried and which the man before her was exorcising back to life.

The captain sprang from his seat and stood before her; the words now poured from his lips in
a torrent.

"And you'll git out from this death blanket you been sleepin' under, bearin' her sin; breakin'
the doctor's heart and your own; and Archie kin hold his head up then and say he's got a father.
You ain't heard how the boys talk 'bout him behind his back. Tod Fogarty's stuck to him, but
who else is there 'round here? We all make mistakes; that's what half the folks that's livin'
do. Everything's been a lie--nothin' but lies--for near twenty years. You've lived a lie motherin'
this boy and breakin' your heart over the whitest man that ever stepped in shoe leather. Doctor
John's lived a lie, tellin' folks he wanted to devote himself to his hospital when he'd rather
live in the sound o' your voice and die a pauper than run a college anywhere else. Lucy has
lived a lie, and is livin' it yet--and LIKES IT, TOO, that's the worst of it. And I been muzzled
all these years; mad one minute and wantin' to twist his neck, and the next with my eyes runnin'
tears that the only boy I got was lyin' out among strangers. The only one that's honest is
the little Pond Lily. She ain't got nothin' to hide and you see it in her face. Her father
was square and her mother's with her and nothin' can't touch her and don't. Let's have this
out. I'm tired of it--"

The captain was out of breath now, his emotions still controlling him, his astonishment at
the unexpected opposition from the woman of all others on whose assistance he most relied unabated.

Jane rose from her chair and stood facing him, a great light in her eyes:

"No! No! NO! A thousand times, no! You don't know Lucy; I do. What you want done now should
have been done when Archie was born. It was my fault. I couldn't see her suffer. I loved her
too much. I thought to save her, I didn't care how. It would have been better for her if she
had faced her sin then and taken the consequences; better for all of us. I didn't think so
then, and it has taken me years to find it out. I began to be conscious of it first in her
marriage, then when she kept on living her lie with her husband, and last when she deserted
Ellen and went off to Beach Haven alone--that broke my heart, and my mistake rose up before
me, and I KNEW!"

The captain stared at her in astonishment. He could hardly credit his ears.

"Yes, better, if she'd faced it. She would have lived here then under my care, and she might
have loved her child as I have done. Now she has no tie, no care, no responsibility, no thought
of anything but the pleasures of the moment. I have tried to save her, and I have only helped
to ruin her."

"Make her settle down, then, and face the music!" blurted out the captain, resuming his seat.
"Bart warn't all bad; he was only young and foolish. He'll take care of her. It ain't never
too late to begin to turn honest. Bart wants to begin; make her begin, too. He's got money
now to do it; and she kin live in South America same's she kin here. She's got no home anywhere.
She don't like it here, and never did; you kin see that from the way she swings 'round from
place to place. MAKE her face it, I tell ye. You been too easy with her all your life; pull
her down now and keep her nose p'inted close to the compass."

"You do not know of what you talk," Jane answered, her eyes blazing. "She hates the past; hates
everything connected with it; hates the very name of Barton Holt. Never once has she mentioned
it since her return. She never loved Archie; she cared no more for him than a bird that has
dropped its young out of its nest. Besides, your plan is impossible. Marriage does not condone
a sin. The power to rise and rectify the wrong lies in the woman. Lucy has not got it in her,
and she never will have it. Part of it is her fault; a large part of it is mine. She has lived
this lie all these years, and I have only myself to blame. I have taught her to live it. I
began it when I carried her away from here; I should have kept her at home and had her face
the consequences of her sin then. I ought to have laid Archie in her arms and kept him there.
I was a coward and could not, and in my fear I destroyed the only thing that could have saved
her--the mother-love. Now she will run her course. She's her own mistress; no one can compel
her to do anything."

The captain raised his clenched hand:

"Bart will, when he comes."

"How?"

"By claimin' the boy and shamin' her before the world, if she don't. She liked him well enough
when he was a disgrace to himself and to me, without a dollar to his name. What ails him now,
when he comes back and owns up like a man and wants to do the square thing, and has got money
enough to see it through? She's nothin' but a THING, if she knew it, till this disgrace's wiped
off'n her. By God, Miss Jane, I tell you this has got to be put through just as Bart wants
it, and quick!"

Jane stepped closer and laid her hand on the captain's arm. The look in her eyes, the low,
incisive, fearless ring in her voice, overawed him. Her courage astounded him. This side of
her character was a revelation. Under their influence he became silent and humbled--as a boisterous
advocate is humbled by the measured tones of a just judge.

"It is not my friend, Captain Nat, who is talking now. It is the father who is speaking. Think
for a moment. Who has borne the weight of this, you or I? You had a wayward son whom the people
here think you drove out of your home for gambling on Sunday. No other taint attaches to him
or to you. Dozens of other sons and fathers have done the same. He returns a reformed man and
lives out his life in the home he left.

"I had a wayward sister who forgot her mother, me, her womanhood, and herself, and yet at whose
door no suspicion of fault has been laid. I stepped in and took the brunt and still do. I did
this for my father's name and for my promise to him and for my love of her. To her child I
have given my life. To him I am his mother and will always be--always, because I will stand
by my fault. That is a redemption in itself, and that is the only thing that saves me from
remorse. You and I, outside of his father and mother, are the only ones living that know of
his parentage. The world has long since forgotten the little they suspected. Let it rest; no
good could come--only suffering and misery. To stir it now would only open old wounds and,
worst of all, it would make a new one."

"In you?"

"No, worse than that. My heart is already scarred all over; no fresh wound would hurt."

"In the doctor?"

"Yes and no. He has never asked the truth and I have never told him."

"Who, then?"

"In little Ellen. Let us keep that one flower untouched."

The captain rested his head in his hand, and for some minutes made no answer. Ellen was the
apple of his eye.

"But if Bart insists?"

"He won't insist when he sees Lucy. She is no more the woman that he loved and wronged than
I am. He would not know her if he met her outside this house."

"What shall I do?"

"Nothing. Let matters take their course. If he is the man you think he is he will never break
the silence."

"And you will suffer on--and the doctor?"

Jane bowed her head and the tears sprang to her eyes.

"Yes, always; there is nothing else to do."

CHAPTER XX

THE UNDERTOW

Within the month a second letter was handed to the captain by Tod, now regularly installed
as postman. It was in answer to one of Captain Holt's which he had directed to the expected
steamer and which had met the exile on his arrival. It was dated "Amboy," began "My dear father,"
and was signed "Your affectionate son, Barton."

This conveyed the welcome intelligence--welcome to the father--that the writer would be detained
a few days in Amboy inspecting the new machinery, after which he would take passage for Barnegat
by the Polly Walters, Farguson's weekly packet. Then these lines followed: "It will be the
happiest day of my life when I can come into the inlet at high tide and see my home in the
distance."

Again the captain sought Jane.

She was still at the hospital, nursing some shipwrecked men--three with internal injuries--who
had been brought in from Forked River Station, the crew having rescued them the week before.
Two of the regular attendants were worn out with the constant nursing, and so Jane continued
her vigils.

She had kept at her work--turning neither to the right nor to the left, doing her duty with
the bravery and patience of a soldier on the firing-line, knowing that any moment some stray
bullet might end her usefulness. She would not dodge, nor would she cower; the danger was no
greater than others she had faced, and no precaution, she knew, could save her. Her lips were
still sealed, and would be to the end; some tongue other than her own must betray her sister
and her trust. In the meantime she would wait and bear bravely whatever was sent to her.

Jane was alone when the captain entered, the doctor having left the room to begin his morning
inspection. She was in her gray-cotton nursing-dress, her head bound about with a white kerchief.
The pathos of her face and the limp, tired movement of her figure would have been instantly
apparent to a man less absorbed in his own affairs than the captain.

"He'll be here to-morrow or next day!" he cried, as he advanced to where she sat at her desk
in the doctor's office, the same light in his eyes and the same buoyant tone in his voice,
his ruddy face aglow with his walk from the station.

"You have another letter then?" she said in a resigned tone, as if she had expected it and
was prepared to meet its consequences. In her suffering she had even forgotten her customary
welcome of him--for whatever his attitude and however gruff he might be, she never forgot the
warm heart beneath.

"Yes, from Amboy," panted the captain, out of breath with his quick walk, dragging a chair
beside Jane's desk as he spoke. "He got mine when the steamer come in. He's goin' to take the
packet so he kin bring his things--got a lot o' them, he says. And he loves the old home, too--he
says so--you kin read it for yourself." As he spoke he unbuttoned his jacket, and taking Bart's
letter from its inside pocket, laid his finger on the paragraph and held it before her face.

"Have you talked about it to anybody?" Jane asked calmly; she hardly glanced at the letter.

"Only to the men; but it's all over Barnegat. A thing like that's nothin' but a cask o' oil
overboard and the bung out--runs everywhere--no use tryin' to stop it." He was in the chair
now, his arms on the edge of the desk.

"But you've said nothing to anybody about Archie and Lucy, and what Bart intends to do when
he comes, have you?" Jane inquired in some alarm.

"Not a word, and won't till ye see him. She's more your sister than she is his wife, and you
got most to say 'bout Archie, and should. You been everything to him. When you've got through
I'll take a hand, but not before." The captain always spoke the truth, and meant it; his word
settled at once any anxieties she might have had on that score.

"What have you decided to do?" She was not looking at him as she spoke; she was toying with
a penholder that lay before her on the desk, apparently intent on its construction.

"I'm goin' to meet him at Farguson's ship-yard when the Polly comes in," rejoined the captain
in a positive tone, as if his mind had long since been made up regarding details, and he was
reciting them for her guidance--"and take him straight to my house, and then come for you.
You kin have it out together. Only one thing, Miss Jane"--here his voice changed and something
of his old quarter-deck manner showed itself in his face and gestures--"if he's laid his course
and wants to keep hold of the tiller I ain't goin' to block his way and he shall make his harbor,
don't make no difference who or what gits in the channel. Ain't neither of us earned any extry
pay for the way we've run this thing. You've got Lucy ashore flounderin' 'round in the fog,
and I had no business to send him off without grub or compass. If he wants to steer now he'll
STEER. I don't want you to make no mistake 'bout this, and you'll excuse me if I put it plain."

Jane put her hand to her head and looked out of the window toward the sea. All her life seemed
to be narrowing to one small converging path which grew smaller and smaller as she looked down
its perspective.

"I understand, captain," she sighed. All the fight was out of her; she was like one limping
across a battlefield, shield and spear gone, the roads unknown.

The door opened and the doctor entered. His quick, sensitive eye instantly caught the look
of despair on Jane's face and the air of determination on the captain's. What had happened
he did not know, but something to hurt Jane; of that he was positive. He stepped quickly past
the captain without accosting him, rested his hand on Jane's shoulder, and said in a tender,
pleading tone:

"You are tired and worn out; get your cloak and hat and I'll drive you home." Then he turned
to the captain: "Miss Jane's been up for three nights. I hope you haven't been worrying her
with anything you could have spared her from--at least until she got rested," and he frowned
at the captain.

"No, I ain't and wouldn't. I been a-tellin' her of Bart's comin' home. That ain't nothin' to
worry over--that's something to be glad of. You heard about it, of course?"

"Yes, Morgan told me. Twenty years will make a great difference in Bart. It must have been
a great surprise to you, captain."

Both Jane and the captain tried to read the doctor's face, and both failed. Doctor John might
have been commenting on the weather or some equally unimportant topic, so light and casual
was his tone.

He turned to Jane again.

"Come, dear--please," he begged. It was only when he was anxious about her physical condition
or over some mental trouble that engrossed her that he spoke thus. The words lay always on
the tip of his tongue, but he never let them fall unless someone was present to overhear.

"You are wrong, John," she answered, bridling her shoulders as if to reassure him. "I am not
tired--I have a little headache, that's all." With the words she pressed both hands to her
temples and smoothed back her hair--a favorite gesture when her brain fluttered against her
skull like a caged pigeon. "I will go home, but not now--this afternoon, perhaps. Come for
me then, please," she added, looking up into his face with a grateful expression.

The captain picked up his cap and rose from his seat. One of his dreams was the marriage of
these two. Episodes like this only showed him the clearer what lay in their hearts. The doctor's
anxiety and Jane's struggle to bear her burdens outside of his touch and help only confirmed
the old sea-dog in his determination. When Bart had his way, he said to himself, all this would
cease.

"I'll be goin' along," he said, looking from one to the other and putting on his cap. "See
you later, Miss Jane. Morgan's back ag'in to work, thanks to you, doctor. That was a pretty
bad sprain he had--he's all right now, though; went on practice yesterday. I'm glad of it--equinox
is comin' on and we can't spare a man, or half a one, these days. May be blowin' a livin' gale
'fore the week's out. Good-by, Miss Jane; good-by, doctor." And he shut the door behind him.

With the closing of the door the sound of wheels was heard--a crisp, crunching sound--and then
the stamping of horses' feet. Max Feilding's drag, drawn by the two grays and attended by the
diminutive Bones, had driven up and now stood beside the stone steps of the front door of the
hospital. The coats of the horses shone like satin and every hub and plate glistened in the
sunshine. On the seat, the reins in one pretty gloved hand, a gold-mounted whip in the other,
sat Lucy. She was dressed in her smartest driving toilette--a short yellow-gray jacket fastened
with big pearl buttons and a hat bound about with the breast of a tropical bird. Her eyes were
dancing, her cheeks like ripe peaches with all the bloom belonging to them in evidence, and
something more, and her mouth all curves and dimples.

When the doctor reached her side--he had heard the sound of the wheels, and looking through
the window had caught sight of the drag--she had risen from her perch and was about to spring
clear of the equipage without waiting for the helping hand of either Bones or himself. She
was still a girl in her suppleness.

"No, wait until I can give you my hand," he said, hurrying toward her.

"No--I don't want your hand, Sir Esculapius. Get out of the way, please--I'm going to jump!
There--wasn't that lovely?" And she landed beside him. "Where's sister? I've been all the way
to Yardley, and Martha tells me she has been here almost all the week. Oh, what a dreadful,
gloomy-looking place! How many people have you got here anyhow, cooped up in this awful-- Why,
it's like an almshouse," she added, looking about her. "Where did you say sister was?"

"I'll go and call her," interpolated the doctor when he could get a chance to speak.

"No, you won't do anything of the kind; I'll go myself. You've had her all the week, and now
it's my turn."

Jane had by this time closed the lid of her desk, had moved out into the hall, and now stood
on the top step of the entrance awaiting Lucy's ascent. In her gray gown, simple head-dress,
and resigned face, the whole framed in the doorway with its connecting background of dull stone,
she looked like one of Correggio's Madonnas illumining some old cloister wall.

"Oh, you dear, DEAR sister!" Lucy cried, running up the short steps to meet her. "I'm so glad
I've found you; I was afraid you were tying up somebody's broken head or rocking a red-flannelled
baby." With this she put her arms around Jane's neck and kissed her rapturously.

"Where can we talk? Oh, I've got such a lot of things to tell you! You needn't come, you dear,
good doctor. Please take yourself off, sir--this way, and out the gate, and don't you dare
come back until I'm gone."

My Lady of Paris was very happy this morning; bubbling over with merriment--a condition that
set the doctor to thinking. Indeed, he had been thinking most intently about my lady ever since
he had heard of Bart's resurrection. He had also been thinking of Jane and Archie. These last
thoughts tightened his throat; they had also kept him awake the past few nights.

The doctor bowed with one of his Sir Roger bows, lifted his hat first to Jane in all dignity
and reverence, and then to Lucy with a flourish--keeping up outwardly the gayety of the occasion
and seconding her play of humor--walked to the shed where his horse was tied and drove off.
He knew these moods of Lucy's; knew they were generally assumed and that they always concealed
some purpose--one which neither a frown nor a cutting word nor an outbreak of temper would
accomplish; but that fact rarely disturbed him. Then, again, he was never anything but courteous
to her--always remembering Jane's sacrifice and her pride in her.

"And now, you dear, let us go somewhere where we can be quiet," Lucy cried, slipping her arm
around Jane's slender waist and moving toward the hall.

With the entering of the bare room lined with bottles and cases of instruments her enthusiasm
began to cool. Up to this time she had done all the talking. Was Jane tired out nursing? she
asked herself; or did she still feel hurt over her refusal to take Ellen with her for the summer?
She had remembered for days afterward the expression on her face when she told of her plans
for the summer and of her leaving Ellen at Yardley; but she knew this had all passed out of
her sister's mind. This was confirmed by Jane's continued devotion to Ellen and her many kindnesses
to the child. It was true that whenever she referred to her separation from Ellen, which she
never failed to do as a sort of probe to be assured of the condition of Jane's mind, there
was no direct reply--merely a changing of the topic, but this had only proved Jane's devotion
in avoiding a subject which might give her beautiful sister pain. What, then, was disturbing
her to-day? she asked herself with a slight chill at her heart. Then she raised her head and
assumed a certain defiant air. Better not notice anything Jane said or did; if she was tired
she would get rested and if she was provoked with her she would get pleased again. It was through
her affections and her conscience that she could hold and mould her sister Jane--never through
opposition or fault-finding. Besides, the sun was too bright and the air too delicious, and
she herself too blissfully happy to worry over anything. In time all these adverse moods would
pass out of Jane's heart as they had done a thousand times before.

"Oh, you dear, precious thing!" Lucy began again, all these matters having been reviewed, settled,
and dismissed from her mind in the time it took her to cross the room. "I'm so sorry for you
when I think of you shut up here with these dreadful people; but I know you wouldn't be happy
anywhere else," she laughed in a meaning way. (The bringing in of the doctor even by implication
was always a good move.) "And Martha looks so desolate. Dear, you really ought to be more with
her; but for my darling Ellen I don't know what Martha would do. I miss the child so, and yet
I couldn't bear to take her from the dear old woman."

Jane made no answer. Lucy had found a chair now and had laid her gloves, parasol, and handkerchief
on another beside her. Jane had resumed her seat; her slender neck and sloping shoulders and
sparely modelled head with its simply dressed hair--she had removed the kerchief--in silhouette
against the white light of the window.

"What is it all about, Lucy?" she asked in a grave tone after a slight pause in Lucy's talk.

"I have a great secret to tell you--one you mustn't breathe until I give you leave."

She was leaning back in her chair now, her eyes trying to read Jane's thoughts. Her bare hands
were resting in her lap, the jewels flashing from her fingers; about her dainty mouth there
hovered, like a butterfly, a triumphant smile; whether this would alight and spread its wings
into radiant laughter, or disappear, frightened by a gathering frown, depended on what would
drop from her sister's lips.

Jane looked up. The strong light from the window threw her head into shadow; only the slight
fluff of her hair glistened in the light. This made an aureole which framed the Madonna's face.

"Well, Lucy, what is it?" she asked again simply.

"Max is going to be married."

"When?" rejoined Jane in the same quiet tone. Her mind was not on Max or on anything connected
with him. It was on the shadow slowly settling upon all she loved.

"In December," replied Lucy, a note of triumph in her voice, her smile broadening.

"Who to?"

"Me."

With the single word a light ripple escaped from her lips.

Jane straightened herself in her chair. A sudden faintness passed over her--as if she had received
a blow in the chest, stopping her breath.

"You mean--you mean--that you have promised to marry Max Feilding!" she gasped.

"That's exactly what I do mean."

The butterfly smile about Lucy's mouth had vanished. That straightening of the lips and slow
contraction of the brow which Jane knew so well was taking its place. Then she added nervously,
unclasping her hands and picking up her gloves:

"Aren't you pleased?"

"I don't know," answered Jane, gazing about the room with a dazed look, as if seeking for a
succor she could not find. "I must think. And so you have promised to marry Max!" she repeated,
as if to herself. "And in December." For a brief moment she paused, her eyes again downcast;
then she raised her voice quickly and in a more positive tone asked, "And what do you mean
to do with Ellen?"

"That's what I want to talk to you about, you dear thing." Lucy had come prepared to ignore
any unfavorable criticisms Jane might make and to give her only sisterly affection in return.
"I want to give her to you for a few months more," she added blandly, "and then we will take
her abroad with us and send her to school either in Paris or Geneva, where her grandmother
can be near her. In a year or two she will come to us in Paris."

Jane made no answer.

Lucy moved uncomfortably in her chair. She had never, in all her life, seen her sister in any
such mood. She was not so much astonished over her lack of enthusiasm regarding the engagement;
that she had expected--at least for the first few days, until she could win her over to her
own view. It was the deadly poise--the icy reserve that disturbed her. This was new.

"Lucy!" Again Jane stopped and looked out of the window. "You remember the letter I wrote you
some years ago, in which I begged you to tell Ellen's father about Archie and Barton Holt?"

Lucy's eyes flashed.

"Yes, and you remember my answer, don't you?" she answered sharply. "What a fool I would have
been, dear, to have followed your advice!"

Jane went straight on without heeding the interruption or noticing Lucy's changed tone.

"Do you intend to tell Max?"

"I tell Max! My dear, good sister, are you crazy! What should I tell Max for? All that is dead
and buried long ago! Why do you want to dig up all these graves? Tell Max--that aristocrat!
He's a dear, sweet fellow, but you don't know him. He'd sooner cut his hand off than marry
me if he knew!"

"I'm afraid you will have to--and this very day," rejoined Jane in a calm, measured tone.

Lucy moved uneasily in her chair; her anxiety had given way to a certain ill-defined terror.
Jane's voice frightened her.

"Why?" she asked in a trembling voice.

"Because Captain Holt or someone else will, if you don't."

"What right has he or anybody else to meddle with my affairs?" Lucy retorted in an indignant tone.

"Because he cannot help it. I intended to keep the news from you for a time, but from what
you have just told me you had best hear it now. Barton Holt is alive. He has been in Brazil
all these years, in the mines. He has written to his father that he is coming home."

All the color faded from Lucy's cheeks.

"Bart! Alive! Coming home! When?"

"He will be here day after to-morrow; he is at Amboy, and will come by the weekly packet. What
I can do I will. I have worked all my life to save you, and I may yet, but it seems now as
if I had reached the end of my rope."

"Who said so? Where did you hear it? It CAN'T be true!"

Jane shook her head. "I wish it was not true--but it is--every word of it. I have read his letter."

Lucy sank back in her chair, her cheeks livid, a cold perspiration moistening her forehead.
Little lines that Jane had never noticed began to gather about the corners of her mouth; her
eyes were wide open, with a strained, staring expression. What she saw was Max's eyes looking
into her own, that same cold, cynical expression on his face she had sometimes seen when speaking
of other women he had known.

"What's he coming for?" Her voice was thick and barely audible.

"To claim his son."

"He--says--he'll--claim--Archie--as--his--son!" she gasped. "I'd like to see any man living
dare to--"

"But he can TRY, Lucy--no one can prevent that, and in the trying the world will know."

Lucy sprang from her seat and stood over her sister:

"I'll deny it!" she cried in a shrill voice; "and face him down. He can't prove it! No one
about here can!"

"He may have proofs that you couldn't deny, and that I would not if I could. Captain Holt knows
everything, remember," Jane replied in her same calm voice.

"But nobody else does but you and Martha!" The thought gave her renewed hope--the only ray she saw.

"True; but the captain is enough. His heart is set on Archie's name being cleared, and nothing
that I can do or say will turn him from his purpose. Do you know what he means to do?"

"No," she replied faintly, more terror than curiosity in her voice.

"He means that you shall marry Barton, and that Archie shall be baptized as Archibald Holt.
Barton will then take you both back to South America. A totally impossible plan, but--"

"I marry Barton Holt! Why, I wouldn't marry him if he got down on his knees. Why, I don't even
remember what he looks like! Did you ever hear of such impudence! What is he to me?" The outburst
carried with it a certain relief.

"What he is to you is not the question. It is what YOU are to Archie! Your sin has been your
refusal to acknowledge him. Now you are brought face to face with the consequences. The world
will forgive a woman all the rest, but never for deserting her child, and that, my dear sister,
IS PRECISELY WHAT YOU DID TO ARCHIE."

Jane's gaze was riveted on Lucy. She had never dared to put this fact clearly before--not even
to herself. Now that she was confronted with the calamity she had dreaded all these years,
truth was the only thing that would win. Everything now must be laid bare.

Lucy lifted her terrified face, burst into tears, and reached out her hands to Jane.

"Oh, sister,--sister!" she moaned. "What shall I do? Oh, if I had never come home! Can't you
think of some way? You have always been so good--Oh, please! please!"

Jane drew Lucy toward her.

"I will do all I can, dear. If I fail there is only one resource left. That is the truth, and
all of it. Max can save you, and he will if he loves you. Tell, him everything!"

CHAPTER XXI

THE MAN IN THE SLOUCH HAT

The wooden arrow on the top of the cupola of the Life-Saving Station had had a busy night of
it. With the going down of the sun the wind had continued to blow east-southeast--its old course
for weeks--and the little sentinel, lulled into inaction, had fallen into a doze, its feather
end fixed on the glow of the twilight.

At midnight a rollicking breeze that piped from out the north caught the sensitive vane napping,
and before the dawn broke had quite tired it out, shifting from point to point, now west, now
east, now nor'east-by-east, and now back to north again. By the time Morgan had boiled his
coffee and had cut his bacon into slivers ready for the frying-pan the restless wind, as if
ashamed of its caprices, had again veered to the north-east, and then, as if determined ever
after to lead a better life, had pulled itself together and had at last settled down to a steady
blow from that quarter.

The needle of the aneroid fastened to the wall of the sitting-room, and in reach of everybody's
eye, had also made a night of it. In fact, it had not had a moment's peace since Captain Holt
reset its register the day before. All its efforts for continued good weather had failed. Slowly
but surely the baffled and disheartened needle had sagged from "Fair" to "Change," dropped
back to "Storm," and before noon the next day had about given up the fight and was in full
flight for "Cyclones and Tempests."

Uncle Isaac Polhemus, sitting at the table with one eye on his game of dominoes (Green was
his partner) and the other on the patch of sky framed by the window, read the look of despair
on the honest face of the aneroid, and rising from his chair, a "double three" in his hand,
stepped to where the weather prophet hung.

"Sompin's comin' Sam," he said solemnly. "The old gal's got a bad setback. Ain't none of us
goin' to git a wink o' sleep to-night, or I miss my guess. Wonder how the wind is." Here he
moved to the door and peered out. "Nor'-east and puffy, just as I thought. We're goin' to hev
some weather, Sam--ye hear?--some WEATHER!" With this he regained his chair and joined the
double three to the long tail of his successes. Good weather or bad weather--peace or war--was
all the same to Uncle Isaac. What he wanted was the earliest news from the front.

Captain Holt took a look at the sky, the aneroid and the wind--not the arrow; old sea-dogs
know which way the wind blows without depending on any such contrivance--the way the clouds
drift, the trend of the white-caps, the set of a distant sail, and on black, almost breathless
nights, by the feel of a wet finger held quickly in the air, the coolest side determining the
wind point.

On this morning the clouds attracted the captain's attention. They hung low and drifted in
long, straggling lines. Close to the horizon they were ashy pale; being nearest the edge of
the brimming sea, they had, no doubt, seen something the higher and rosier-tinted clouds had
missed; something of the ruin that was going on farther down the round of the sphere. These
clouds the captain studied closely, especially a prismatic sun-dog that glowed like a bit of
rainbow snipped off by wind-scissors, and one or two dirt spots sailing along by themselves.

During the captain's inspection Archie hove in sight, wiping his hands with a wad of cotton
waste. He and Parks had been swabbing out the firing gun and putting the polished work of the
cart apparatus in order.

"It's going to blow, captain, isn't it?" he called out. Blows were what Archie was waiting
for. So far the sea had been like a mill-pond, except on one or two occasions, when, to the
boy's great regret, nothing came ashore.

"Looks like it. Glass's been goin' down and the wind has settled to the nor'east. Some nasty
dough-balls out there I don't like. See 'em goin' over that three-master?"

Archie looked, nodded his head, and a certain thrill went through him. The harder it blew the
better it would suit Archie.

"Will the Polly be here to-night?" he added. "Your son's coming, isn't he?"

"Yes; but you won't see him to-night, nor to-morrow, not till this is over. You won't catch
old Ambrose out in this weather" (Captain Ambrose Farguson sailed the Polly). "He'll stick
his nose in the basin some'er's and hang on for a spell. I thought he'd try to make the inlet,
and I 'spected Bart here to-night till I saw the glass when I got up. Ye can't fool Ambrose--he
knows. Be two or three days now 'fore Bart comes," he added, a look of disappointment shadowing
his face.

Archie kept on to the house, and the captain, after another sweep around, turned on his heel
and reentered the sitting-room.

"Green!"

"Yes, captain." The surfman was on his feet in an instant, his ears wide open.

"I wish you and Fogarty would look over those new Costons and see if they're all right. And,
Polhemus, perhaps you'd better overhaul them cork jackets; some o' them straps seemed kind
o' awkward on practice yesterday--they ought to slip on easier; guess they're considerable
dried out and a little mite stiff."

Green nodded his head in respectful assent and left the room. Polhemus, at the mention of his
name, had dropped his chair legs to the floor; he had finished his game of dominoes and had
been tilted back against the wall, awaiting the dinner-hour.

"It's goin' to blow a livin' gale o' wind, Polhemus," the captain continued; "that's what it's
goin' to do. Ye kin see it yerself. There she comes now!"

As he spoke the windows on the sea side of the house rattled as if shaken by the hand of a
man and as quickly stopped.

"Them puffs are jest the tootin' of her horn--" this with a jerk of his head toward the windows.
"I tell ye, it looks ugly!"

Polhemus gained his feet and the two men stepped to the sash and peered out. To them the sky
was always an open book--each cloud a letter, each mass a paragraph, the whole a warning.

"But I'm kind o' glad, Isaac." Again the captain forgot the surfman in the friend. "As long
as it's got to blow it might as well blow now and be over. I'd kind o' set my heart on Bart's
comin', but I guess I've waited so long I kin wait a day or two more. I wrote him to come by
train, but he wrote back he had a lot o' plunder and he'd better put it 'board the Polly; and,
besides, he said he kind o' wanted to sail into the inlet like he used to when he was a boy.
Then again, I couldn't meet him; not with this weather comin' on. No--take it all in all, I'm
glad he ain't comin'."

"Well, I guess yer right, captain," answered uncle Isaac in an even tone, as he left the room
to overhaul the cork jackets. The occasion was not one of absorbing interest to Isaac.

By the time the table was cleared and the kitchen once more in order not only were the windows
on the sea side of the house roughly shaken by the rising gale, but the sand caught from the
dunes was being whirled against their panes. The tide, too, egged on by the storm, had crept
up the slope of the dunes, the spray drenching the grass-tufts.

At five o'clock the wind blew forty miles an hour at sundown it had increased to fifty; at
eight o'clock it bowled along at sixty. Morgan, who had been to the village for supplies, reported
that the tide was over the dock at Barnegat and that the roof of the big bathing-house at Beach
Haven had been ripped off and landed on the piazza. He had had all he could do to keep his
feet and his basket while crossing the marsh on his way back to the station. Then he added:

"There's a lot o' people there yit. That feller from Philadelphy who's mashed on Cobden's aunt
was swellin' around in a potato-bug suit o' clothes as big as life." This last was given from
behind his hand after he had glanced around the room and found that Archie was absent.

At eight o'clock, when Parks and Archie left the Station to begin their patrol, Parks was obliged
to hold on to the rail of the porch to steady himself, and Archie, being less sure of his feet,
was blown against the water-barrel before he could get his legs well under him. At the edge
of the surf the two separated for their four hours' patrol, Archie breasting the gale on his
way north, and Parks hurrying on, helped by the wind, to the south.

At ten o'clock Parks returned. He had made his first round, and had exchanged his brass check
with the patrol at the next station. As he mounted the sand-dune he quickened his steps, hurried
to the Station, opened the sitting-room door, found it empty, the men being in bed upstairs
awaiting their turns, and then strode on to the captain's room, his sou'wester and tarpaulin
drenched with spray and sand, his hip-boots leaving watery tracks along the clean floor.

"Wreck ashore at No. 14, sir!" Parks called out in a voice hoarse with fighting the wind.

The captain sprang from his cot--he was awake, his light still burning.

"Anybody drownded?"

"No, sir; got 'em all. Seven of 'em, so the patrol said. Come ashore 'bout supper-time."

"What is she?"

"A two-master from Virginia loaded with cord-wood. Surf's in bad shape, sir; couldn't nothin'
live in it afore; it's wuss now. Everything's a bobble; turrible to see them sticks thrashin'
'round and slammin' things."

"Didn't want no assistance, did they?"

"No, sir; they got the fust line 'round the foremast and come off in less'n a hour; warn't
none of 'em hurted."

"Is it any better outside?"

"No, sir; wuss. I ain't seen nothin' like it 'long the coast for years. Good-night," and Parks
took another hole in the belt holding his tarpaulins together, opened the back door, walked
to the edge of the house, steadied himself against the clapboards, and boldly facing the storm,
continued his patrol.

The captain stretched himself again on his bed; he had tried to sleep, but his brain was too
active. As he lay listening to the roar of the surf and the shrill wail of the wind, his thoughts
would revert to Bart and what his return meant; particularly to its effect on the fortunes
of the doctor, of Jane and of Lucy.

Jane's attitude continued to astound him. He had expected that Lucy might not realize the advantages
of his plan at first--not until she had seen Bart and listened to what he had to say; but that
Jane, after the confession of her own weakness should still oppose him, was what he could not
under stand, he would keep his promise, however, to the very letter. She should have free range
to dissuade Bart from his purpose. After that Bart should have his way. No other course was
possible, and no other course either honest or just.

Then he went over in his mind all that had happened to him since the day he had driven Bart
out into the night, and from that same House of Refuge, too, which, strange to say, lay within
sight of the Station. He recalled his own and Bart's sufferings; his loneliness; the bitterness
of the terrible secret which had kept his mouth closed all these years, depriving him of even
the intimate companionship of his own grandson. With this came an increased love for the boy;
he again felt the warm pressure of his hand and caught the look in his eyes the morning Archie
congratulated him so heartily on Bart's expected return, he had always loved him; he would
love him now a thousand times more when he could put his hand on the boy's shoulder and tell
him everything.

With the changing of the patrol, Tod and Polhemus taking the places of Archie and Parks, he
fell into a doze, waking with a sudden start some hours later, springing from his bed, and
as quickly turning up the lamp.

Still in his stocking feet and trousers--on nights like this the men lie down in half their
clothes--he walked to the window and peered out. It was nearing daylight; the sky still black.
The storm was at its height; the roar of the surf incessant and the howl of the wind deafening.
Stepping into the sitting-room he glanced at the aneroid--the needle had not advanced a point;
then turning into the hall, he mounted the steps to the lookout in the cupola, walked softly
past the door of the men's room so as not to waken the sleepers, particularly Parks and Archie,
whose cots were nearest the door--both had had four hours of the gale and would have hours
more if it continued--and reaching the landing, pressed his face against the cool pane and
peered out.

Below him stretched a dull waste of sand hardly distinguishable in the gloom until his eyes
became accustomed to it, and beyond this the white line of the surf, whiter than either sky
or sand. This writhed and twisted like a cobra in pain. To the north burned Barnegat Light,
only the star of its lamp visible. To the south stretched alternate bands of sand, sky, and
surf, their dividing lines lost in the night. Along this beach, now stopping to get their breath,
now slanting the brim of their sou'westers to escape the slash of the sand and spray, strode
Tod and Polhemus, their eyes on and beyond the tumbling surf, their ears open to every unusual
sound, their Costons buttoned tight under their coats to keep them from the wet.

Suddenly, while his eyes were searching the horizon line, now hardly discernible in the gloom,
a black mass rose from behind a cresting of foam, see-sawed for an instant, clutched wildly
at the sky, and dropped out of sight behind a black wall of water. The next instant there flashed
on the beach below him, and to the left of the station, the red flare of a Coston signal.

With the quickness of a cat Captain Holt sprang to the stairs shouting:

"A wreck, men, a wreck!" The next instant he had thrown aside the door of the men's room. "Out
every one of ye! Who's on the beach?" And he looked over the cots to find the empty ones.

The men were on their feet before he had ceased speaking, Archie before the captain's hand
had left the knob of the door.

"Who's on the beach, I say?" he shouted again.

"Fogarty and Uncle Ike," someone answered.

"Polhemus! Good! All hands on the cart, men; boat can't live in that surf. She lies to the
north of us!" And he swung himself out of the door and down the stairs.

"God help 'em, if they've got to come through that surf!" Parks said, slinging on his coat.
"The tide's just beginnin' to make flood, and all that cord-wood'll come a-waltzin' back. Never
see nothin' like it!"

The front door now burst in and another shout went ringing through the house:

"Schooner in the breakers!"

It was Tod. He had rejoined Polhemus the moment before he flared his light and had made a dash
to rouse the men.

"I seen her, Fogarty, from the lookout," cried the captain, in answer, grabbing his sou'wester;
he was already in his hip-boots and tarpaulin. "What is she?"

"Schooner, I guess, sir."

"Two or three masts?" asked the captain hurriedly, tightening the strap of his sou'wester and
slipping the leather thong under his gray whiskers.

"Can't make out, sir; she come bow on. Uncle Ike see her fust." And he sprang out after the men.

A double door thrown wide; a tangle of wild cats springing straight at a broad-tired cart;
a grappling of track-lines and handle-bars; a whirl down the wooden incline, Tod following
with the quickly lighted lanterns; a dash along the runway, the sand cutting their cheeks like
grit from a whirling stone; over the dune, the men bracing the cart on either side, and down
the beach the crew swept in a rush to where Polhemus stood waving his last Coston.

Here the cart stopped.

"Don't unload nothin'," shouted Polhemus. "She ain't fast; looks to me as if she was draggin'
her anchors."

Captain Holt canted the brim of his sou'wester, held his bent elbow against his face to protect
it from the cut of the wind, and looked in the direction of the surfman's fingers. The vessel
lay about a quarter of a mile from the shore and nearer the House of Refuge than when the captain
had first seen her from the lookout. She was afloat and drifting broadside on to the coast.
Her masts were still standing and she seemed able to take care of herself. Polhemus was right.
Nothing could be done till she grounded. In the meantime the crew must keep abreast of her.
Her fate, however, was but a question of time, for not only had the wind veered to the southward--a-dead-on-shore
wind--but the set of the flood must eventually strand her.

At the track-lines again, every man in his place, Uncle Isaac with his shoulder under the spokes
of the wheels, the struggling crew keeping the cart close to the edge of the dune, springing
out of the way of the boiling surf or sinking up to their waists into crevices of sluiceways
gullied out by the hungry sea. Once Archie lost his footing and would have been sucked under
by a comber had not Captain Holt grapped him by the collar and landed him on his feet again.
Now and then a roller more vicious than the others would hurl a log of wood straight at the
cart with the velocity of a torpedo, and swoop back again, the log missing its mark by a length.

When the dawn broke the schooner could be made out more clearly. Both masts were still standing,
their larger sails blown away. The bowsprit was broken short off close to her chains. About
this dragged the remnants of a jib sail over which the sea soused and whitened. She was drifting
slowly and was now but a few hundred yards from the beach, holding, doubtless, by her anchors.
Over her deck the sea made a clean breach.

Suddenly, and while the men still tugged at the track-ropes, keeping abreast of her so as to
be ready with the mortar and shot-line, the ill-fated vessel swung bow on toward the beach,
rose on a huge mountain of water, and threw herself headlong. When the smother cleared her
foremast was overboard and her deck-house smashed. Around her hull the waves gnashed and fought
like white wolves, leaping high, flinging themselves upon her. In the recoil Captain Holt's
quick eye got a glimpse of the crew; two were lashed to the rigging and one held the tiller--a
short, thickset man, wearing what appeared to be a slouch hat tied over his ears by a white
handkerchief.

With the grounding of the vessel a cheer went up from around the cart.

"Now for the mortar!"

"Up with it on the dune, men!" shouted the captain, his voice ringing above the roar of the
tempest.

The cart was forced up the slope--two men at the wheels, the others straining ahead--the gun
lifted out and set, Polhemus ramming the charge home, Captain Holt sighting the piece; there
came a belching sound, a flash of dull light, and a solid shot carrying a line rose in the
air, made a curve like a flying rocket, and fell athwart the wreck between her forestay and
jib. A cheer went up from the men about the gun. When this line was hauled in and the hawser
attached to it made fast high up on the mainmast and above the raging sea, and the car run
off to the wreck, the crew could be landed clear of the surf and the slam of the cord-wood.

At the fall of the line the man in the slouch hat was seen to edge himself forward in an attempt
to catch it. The two men in the rigging kept their hold. The men around the cart sprang for
the hawser and tally-blocks to rig the buoy, when a dull cry rose from the wreck. To their
horror they saw the mainmast waver, flutter for a moment, and sag over the schooner's side.
The last hope of using the life-car was gone! Without the elevation of the mast and with nothing
but the smashed hull to make fast to, the shipwrecked men would be pounded into pulp in the
attempt to drag them through the boil of wreckage.

"Haul in, men!" cried the captain. "No use of another shot; we can't drag 'em through that surf!"

"I'll take my chances," said Green, stepping forward. "Let me, cap'n. I can handle 'em if they
haul in the slack and make fast."

"No, you can't," said the captain calmly. "You couldn't get twenty feet from shore. We got
to wait till the tide cleans this wood out. It's workin' right now. They kin stand it for a
while. Certain death to bring 'em through that smother--that stuff'd knock the brains out of
'em fast as they dropped into it. Signal to 'em to hang on, Parks."

An hour went by--an hour of agony to the men clinging to the grounded schooner, and of impatience
to the shore crew, who were powerless. The only danger was of exhaustion to the shipwrecked
men and the breaking up of the schooner. If this occurred there was nothing left but a plunge
of rescuing men through the surf, the life of every man in his hand.

The beach began filling up. The news of a shipwreck had spread with the rapidity of a thunder-shower.
One crowd, denser in spots where the stronger men were breasting the wind, which was now happily
on the wane, were moving from the village along the beach, others were stumbling on through
the marshes. From the back country, along the road leading from the hospital, rattled a gig,
the horse doing his utmost. In this were Doctor John and Jane. She had, contrary to his advice,
remained at the hospital. The doctor had been awakened by the shouts of a fisherman, and had
driven with all speed to the hospital to get his remedies and instruments. Jane had insisted
upon accompanying him, although she had been up half the night with one of the sailors rescued
the week before by the crew of No. 14. The early morning air--it was now seven o'clock--would
do her good, she pleaded, and she might be of use if any one of the poor fellows needed a woman's
care.

Farther down toward Beach Haven the sand was dotted with wagons and buggies; some filled with
summer boarders anxious to see the crew at work. One used as the depot omnibus contained Max
Feilding, Lucy, and half a dozen others. She had passed a sleepless night, and hearing the
cries of those hurrying by had thrown a heavy cloak around her and opening wide the piazza
door had caught sight of the doomed vessel fighting for its life. Welcoming the incident as
a relief from her own maddening thoughts, she had joined Max, hoping that the excitement might
divert her mind from the horror that overshadowed her. Then, too, she did not want to be separated
a single moment from him. Since the fatal hour when Jane had told her of Bart's expected return
Max's face had haunted her. As long as he continued to look into her eyes, believing and trusting
in her there was hope. He had noticed her haggard look, but she had pleaded one of her headaches,
and had kept up her smiles, returning his caresses. Some way would be opened; some way MUST
be opened!

While waiting for the change of wind and tide predicted by Captain Holt to clear away the deadly
drift of the cord-wood so dangerous to the imperilled men, the wreckage from the grounded schooner
began to come ashore--crates of vegetables, barrels of groceries, and boxes filled with canned
goods. Some of these were smashed into splinters by end-on collisions with cord-wood; others
had dodged the floatage and were landed high on the beach.

During the enforced idleness Tod occupied himself in rolling away from the back-suck of the
surf the drift that came ashore. Being nearest a stranded crate he dragged it clear and stood
bending over it, reading the inscription. With a start he beckoned to Parks, the nearest man
to him, tore the card from the wooden slat, and held it before the surfman's face.

"What's this? Read! That's the Polly Walters out there, I tell ye, and the captain's son's
aboard! I've been suspicionin' it all the mornin'. That's him with the slouch hat. I knowed
he warn't no sailor from the way he acted. Don't say nothin' till we're sure."

Parks lunged forward, dodged a stick of cord-wood that drove straight at him like a battering-ram
and, watching his chance, dragged a floating keg from the smother, rolled it clear of the surf,
canted it on end, and took a similar card from its head. Then he shouted with all his might:

"It's the Polly, men! It's the Polly--the Polly Walters! O God, ain't that too bad! Captain
Ambrose's drowned, or we'd a-seen him! That feller in the slouch hat is Bart Holt! Gimme that
line!" He was stripping off his waterproofs now ready for a plunge into the sea.

With the awful words ringing in his ears Captain Holt made a spring from the dune and came
running toward Parks, who was now knotting the shot-line about his waist.

"What do you say she is?" he shouted, as he flung himself to the edge of the roaring surf and
strained his eyes toward the wreck.

"The Polly--the Polly Walters!"

"My God! How do ye know? She ain't left Amboy, I tell ye!"

"She has! That's her--see them kerds! They come off that stuff behind ye. Tod got one and I
got t'other!" he held the bits of cardboard under the rim of the captain's sou'wester.

Captain Holt snatched the cards from Parks's hand, read them at a glance, and a dazed, horror-stricken
expression crossed his face. Then his eye fell upon Parks knotting the shot-line about his waist.

"Take that off! Parks, stay where ye are; don't ye move, I tell ye."

As the words dropped from the captain's lips a horrified shout went up from the bystanders.
The wreck, with a crunching sound, was being lifted from the sand. She rose steadily, staggered
for an instant and dropped out of sight. She had broken amidships. With the recoil two ragged
bunches showed above the white wash of the water. On one fragment--a splintered mast--crouched
the man with the slouch hat; to the other clung the two sailors. The next instant a great roller,
gathering strength as it came, threw itself full length on both fragments and swept on. Only
wreckage was left and one head.

With a cry to the men to stand by and catch the slack, the captain ripped a line from the drum
of the cart, dragged off his high boots, knotted the bight around his waist, and started on
a run for the surf.

Before his stockinged feet could reach the edge of the foam, Archie seized him around the waist
and held him with a grip of steel.

"You sha'n't do it, captain!" he cried, his eyes blazing. "Hold him, men--I'll get him!" With
the bound of a cat he landed in the middle of the floatage, dived under the logs, rose on the
boiling surf, worked himself clear of the inshore wreckage, and struck out in the direction
of the man clinging to the shattered mast, and who was now nearing the beach, whirled on by
the inrushing seas.

Strong men held their breath, tears brimming their eyes. Captain Holt stood irresolute, dazed
for the moment by Archie's danger. The beach women--Mrs. Fogarty among them--were wringing
their hands. They knew the risk better than the others.

Jane, at Archie's plunge, had run down to the edge of the surf and stood with tight-clenched
fingers, her gaze fixed on the lad's head as he breasted the breakers--her face white as death,
the tears streaming down her cheeks. Fear for the boy she loved, pride in his pluck and courage,
agony over the result of the rescue, all swept through her as she strained her eyes seaward.

Lucy, Max, and Mrs. Coates were huddled together under the lee of the dune. Lucy's eyes were
staring straight ahead of her; her teeth chattering with fear and cold. She had heard the shouts
of Parks and the captain, and knew now whose life was at stake. There was no hope left; Archie
would win and pull him out alive, and her end would come.

The crowd watched the lad until his hand touched the mast, saw him pull himself hand over hand
along its slippery surface and reach out his arms. Then a cheer went up from a hundred throats,
and as instantly died away in a moan of terror. Behind, towering over them like a huge wall,
came a wave of black water, solemn, merciless, uncrested, as if bent on deadly revenge. Under
its impact the shattered end of the mast rose clear of the water, tossed about as if in agony,
veered suddenly with the movement of a derrick-boom, and with its living freight dashed headlong
into the swirl of cord-wood.

As it ploughed through the outer drift and reached the inner line of wreckage, Tod, whose eyes
had never left Archie since his leap into the surf, made a running jump from the sand, landed
on a tangle of drift, and sprang straight at the section of the mast to which Archie clung.
The next instant the surf rolled clear, submerging the three men.

Another ringing order now rose above the roar of the waters, and a chain of rescuing surfmen--the
last resort--with Captain Nat at the head dashed into the turmoil.

It was a hand-to-hand fight now with death. At the first onslaught of the battery of wreckage
Polhemus was knocked breathless by a blow in the stomach and rescued by the bystanders just
as a log was curling over him. Green was hit by a surging crate, and Mulligan only saved from
the crush of the cord-wood by the quickness of a fisherman. Morgan, watching his chance, sprang
clear of a tangle of barrels and cord-wood, dashed into the narrow gap of open water, and grappling
Tod as he whirled past, twisted his fingers in Archie's waistband. The three were then pounced
upon by a relay of fishermen led by Tod's father and dragged from under the crunch and surge
of the smother. Both Tod and Morgan were unhurt and scrambled to their feet as soon as they
gained the hard sand, but Archie lay insensible where the men had dropped him, his body limp,
his feet crumpled under him.

All this time the man in the slouch hat was being swirled in the hell of wreckage, the captain
meanwhile holding to the human chain with one hand and fighting with the other until he reached
the half-drowned man whose grip had now slipped from the crate to which he clung. As the two
were shot in toward the beach, Green, who had recovered his breath, dodged the recoil, sprang
straight for them, threw the captain a line, which he caught, dashed back and dragged the two
high up on the beach, the captain's arm still tightly locked about the rescued man.

A dozen hands were held out to relieve the captain of his burden, but he only waved them away.

"I'll take care of him!" he gasped in a voice almost gone from buffeting the waves, as the
body slipped from his arms to the wet sand. "Git out of the way, all of you!"

Once on his feet, he stood for an instant to catch his breath, wrung the grime from his ears
with his stiff fingers, and then shaking the water from his shoulders as a dog would after
a plunge, he passed his great arms once more under the bedraggled body of the unconscious man
and started up the dune toward the House of Refuge, the water dripping from both their wet
bodies. Only once did he pause, and then to shout:

"Green,--Mulligan! Go back, some o' ye, and git Archie. He's hurt bad. Quick, now! And one
o' ye bust in them doors. And-- Polhemus, pull some coats off that crowd and a shawl or two
from them women if they can spare 'em, and find Doctor John, some o' ye! D'ye hear! DOCTOR JOHN!"

A dozen coats were stripped from as many backs, a shawl of Mrs. Fogarty's handed to Polhemus,
the doors burst in and Uncle Isaac lunging in tumbled the garments on the floor. On these the
captain laid the body of the rescued man, the slouch hat still clinging to his head.

While this was being done another procession was approaching the house. Tod and Parks were
carrying Archie's unconscious form, the water dripping from his clothing. Tod had his hands
under the boy's armpits and Parks carried his feet. Behind the three walked Jane, half supported
by the doctor.

"Dead!" she moaned. "Oh, no--no--no, John; it cannot be! Not my Archie! my brave Archie!"

The captain heard the tramp of the men's feet on the board floor of the runway outside and
rose to his feet. He had been kneeling beside the form of the rescued man. His face was knotted
with the agony he had passed through, his voice still thick and hoarse from battling with the sea.

"What's that she says?" he cried, straining his ears to catch Jane's words. "What's that! Archie
dead! No! 'Tain't so, is it, doctor?"

Doctor John, his arm still supporting Jane, shook his head gravely and pointed to his own forehead.

"It's all over, captain," he said in a broken voice. "Skull fractured."

"Hit with them logs! Archie! Oh, my God! And this man ain't much better off--he ain't hardly
breathin'. See for yerself, doctor. Here, Tod, lay Archie on these coats. Move back that boat,
men, to give 'em room, and push them stools out of the way. Oh, Miss Jane, maybe it ain't true,
maybe he'll come round! I've seen 'em this way more'n a dozen times. Here, doctor let's get
these wet clo'es off 'em." He dropped between the two limp, soggy bodies and began tearing
open the shirt from the man's chest. Jane, who had thrown herself in a passion of grief on
the water-soaked floor beside Archie, commenced wiping the dead boy's face with her handkerchief,
smoothing the short wet curls from his forehead as she wept.

The man's shirt and collar loosened, Captain Holt pulled the slouch hat from his head, wrenched
the wet shoes loose, wrapped the cold feet in the dry shawl, and began tucking the pile of
coats closer about the man's shoulders that he might rest the easier. For a moment he looked
intently at the pallid face smeared with ooze and grime, and limp body that the doctor was
working over, and then stepped to where Tod now crouched beside his friend, the one he had
loved all his life. The young surfman's strong body was shaking with the sobs he could no longer
restrain.

"It's rough, Tod," said the captain, in a choking voice, which grew clearer as he talked on.
"Almighty rough on ye and on all of us. You did what you could--ye risked yer life for him,
and there ain't nobody kin do more. I wouldn't send ye out again, but there's work to do. Them
two men of Cap'n Ambrose's is drowned, and they'll come ashore some'er's near the inlet, and
you and Parks better hunt 'em up. They live up to Barnegat, ye know, and their folks'll be
wantin' 'em." It was strange how calm he was. His sense of duty was now controlling him.

Tod had raised himself to his feet when the captain had begun to speak and stood with his wet
sou'wester in his hand.

"Been like a brother to me," was all he said, as he brushed the tears from his eyes and went
to join Parks.

The captain watched Tod's retreating figure for a moment, and bending again over Archie's corpse,
stood gazing at the dead face, his hands folded across his girth--as one does when watching
a body being slowly lowered into a grave.

"I loved ye, boy," Jane heard him say between her sobs. "I loved ye! You knowed it, boy. I
hoped to tell ye so out loud so everybody could hear. Now they'll never know."

Straightening himself up, he walked firmly to the open door about which the people pressed,
held back by the line of surfmen headed by Polhemus, and calmly surveyed the crowd. Close to
the opening, trying to press her way in to Jane, his eyes fell on Lucy. Behind her stood Max
Feilding.

"Friends," said the captain, in a low, restrained voice, every trace of his grief and excitement
gone, "I've got to ask ye to git considerable way back and keep still. We got Doctor John here
and Miss Jane, and there ain't nothin' ye kin do. When there is I'll call ye. Polhemus, you
and Green see this order is obeyed."

Again he hesitated, then raising his eyes over the group nearest the door, he beckoned to Lucy,
pushed her in ahead of him, caught the swinging doors in his hands, and shut them tight. This
done, he again dropped on his knees beside the doctor and the now breathing man.

CHAPTER XXII

THE CLAW OF THE SEA-PUSS

With the closing of the doors the murmur of the crowd, the dull glare of the gray sky, and
the thrash of the wind were shut out. The only light in the House of Refuge now came from the
two small windows, one above the form of the suffering man and the other behind the dead body
of Archie. Jane's head was close to the boy's chest, her sobs coming from between her hands,
held before her face. The shock of Archie's death had robbed her of all her strength. Lucy
knelt beside her, her shoulder resting against a pile of cordage. Every now and then she would
steal a furtive glance around the room--at the boat, at the rafters overhead, at the stove
with its pile of kindling--and a slight shudder would pass through her. She had forgotten nothing
of the past, nor of the room in which she crouched. Every scar and stain stood out as clear
and naked as those on some long-buried wreck dug from shifting sands by a change of tide.

A few feet away the doctor was stripping the wet clothes from the rescued man and piling the
dry coats over him to warm him back to life. His emergency bag, handed in by Polhemus through
the crack of the closed doors, had been opened, a bottle selected, and some spoonfuls of brandy
forced down the sufferer's throat. He saw that the sea-water had not harmed him; it was the
cordwood and wreckage that had crushed the breath out of him. In confirmation he pointed to
a thin streak of blood oozing from one ear. The captain nodded, and continued chafing the man's
hands--working with the skill of a surfman over the water-soaked body. Once he remarked in
a half-whisper--so low that Jane could not hear him:

"I ain't sure yet, doctor. I thought it was Bart when I grabbed him fust; but he looks kind
o' different from what I expected to see him. If it's him he'll know me when he comes to. I
ain't changed so much maybe. I'll rub his feet now," and he kept on with his work of resuscitation.

Lucy's straining ears had caught the captain's words of doubt, but they gave her no hope. She
had recognized at the first glance the man of all others in the world she feared most. His
small ears, the way the hair grew on the temples, the bend of the neck and slope from the chin
to the throat. No--she had no misgivings. These features had been part of her life--had been
constantly before her since the hour Jane had told her of Bart's expected return. Her time
had come; nothing could save her. He would regain consciousness, just as the captain had said,
and would open those awful hollow eyes and would look at her, and then that dreadful mouth,
with its thin, ashen lips, would speak to her, and she could deny nothing. Trusting to her
luck--something which had never failed her--she had continued in her determination to keep
everything from Max. Now it would all come as a shock to him, and when he asked her if it was
true she could only bow her head.

She dared not look at Archie--she could not. All her injustice to him and to Jane; her abandonment
of him when a baby; her neglect of him since, her selfish life of pleasure; her triumph over
Max--all came into review, one picture after another, like the unrolling of a chart. Even while
her hand was on Jane's shoulder, and while comforting words fell from her lips, her mind and
eyes were fixed on the face of the man whom the doctor was slowly bringing back to life.

Not that her sympathy was withheld from Archie and Jane. It was her terror that dominated her--a
terror that froze her blood and clogged her veins and dulled every sensibility and emotion.
She was like one lowered into a grave beside a corpse upon which every moment the earth would
fall, entombing the living with the dead.

The man groaned and turned his head, as if in pain. A convulsive movement of the lips and face
followed, and then the eyes partly opened.

Lucy clutched at the coil of rope, staggered to her feet, and braced herself for the shock.
He would rise now, and begin staring about, and then he would recognize her. The captain knew
what was coming; he was even now planning in his mind the details of the horrible plot of which
Jane had told her!

Captain Holt stooped closer and peered under the half-closed lids.

"Brown eyes," she heard him mutter to himself, "just 's the Swede told me." She knew their
color; they had looked into her own too often.

Doctor John felt about with his hand and drew a small package of letters from inside the man's
shirt. They were tied with a string and soaked with salt water. This he handed to the captain.

The captain pulled them apart and examined them carefully.

"It's him," he said with a start, "it's Bart! It's all plain now. Here's my letter," and he
held it up. "See the printing at the top--'Life-Saving Service'? And here's some more--they're
all stuck together. Wait! here's one--fine writing." Then his voice dropped so that only the
doctor could hear: "Ain't that signed 'Lucy'? Yes--'Lucy'--and it's an old one."

The doctor waved the letters away and again laid his hand on the sufferer's chest, keeping
it close to his heart. The captain bent nearer. Jane, who, crazed with grief, had been caressing
Archie's cold cheeks, lifted her head as if aware of the approach of some crisis, and turned
to where the doctor knelt beside the rescued man. Lucy leaned forward with straining eyes and ears.

The stillness of death fell upon the small room. Outside could be heard the pound and thrash
of the surf and the moan of the gale; no human voice--men and women were talking in whispers.
One soul had gone to God and another life hung by a thread.

The doctor raised his finger.

The man's face twitched convulsively, the lids opened wider, there came a short, inward gasp,
and the jaw dropped.

"He's dead," said the doctor, and rose to his feet. Then he took his handkerchief from his
pocket and laid it over the dead man's face.

As the words fell from his lips Lucy caught at the wall, and with an almost hysterical cry
of joy threw herself into Jane's arms.

The captain leaned back against the life-boat and for some moments his eyes were fixed on the
body of his dead son.

"I ain't never loved nothin' all my life, doctor," he said, his voice choking, "that it didn't
go that way."

Doctor John made no reply except with his eyes. Silence is ofttimes more sympathetic than the
spoken word. He was putting his remedies back into his bag so that he might rejoin Jane. The
captain continued:

"All I've got is gone now--the wife, Archie, and now Bart. I counted on these two. Bad day's
work, doctor--bad day's work." Then in a firm tone, "I'll open the doors now and call in the
men; we got to git these two bodies up to the Station, and then we'll get 'em home somehow."

Instantly all Lucy's terror returned. An unaccountable, unreasoning panic took possession of
her. All her past again rose before her. She feared the captain now more than she had Bart.
Crazed over the loss of his son he would blurt out everything. Max would hear and know--know
about Archie and Bart and all her life!

Springing to her feet, maddened with an undefinable terror, she caught the captain's hand as
he reached out for the fastenings of the door.

"Don't--don't tell them who he is! Promise me you won't tell them anything! Say it's a stranger!
You are not sure it's he--I heard you say so!"

"Not say it's my own son! Why?" He was entirely unconscious of what was in her mind.

Jane had risen to her feet at the note of agony in Lucy's voice and had stepped to her side
as if to protect her. The doctor stood listening in amazement to Lucy's outbreak. He knew her
reasons, and was appalled at her rashness.

"No! Don't--DON'T!" Lucy was looking up into the captain's face now, all her terror in her eyes.

"Why, I can't see what good that'll do!" For the moment he thought that the excitement had
turned her head. "Isaac Polhemus'll know him," he continued, "soon's he sets his eyes on him.
And even if I was mean enough to do it, which I ain't, these letters would tell. They've got
to go to the Superintendent 'long with everything else found on bodies. Your name's on some
o' 'em and mine's on some others. We'll git 'em ag'in, but not till Gov'ment see 'em."

These were the letters which had haunted her!

"Give them to me! They're mine!" she cried, seizing the captain's fingers and trying to twist
the letters from his grasp.

A frown gathered on the captain's brow and his voice had an ugly ring in it:

"But I tell ye the Superintendent's got to have 'em for a while. That's regulations, and that's
what we carry out. They ain't goin' to be lost--you'll git 'em ag'in."

"He sha'n't have them, I tell you!" Her voice rang now with something of her old imperious
tone. "Nobody shall have them. They're mine--not yours--nor his. Give them--"

"And break my oath!" interrupted the captain. For the first time he realized what her outburst
meant and what inspired it.

"What difference does that make in a matter like this? Give them to me. You dare not keep them,"
she cried, tightening her fingers in the effort to wrench the letters from his hand. "Sister--doctor--speak
to him! Make him give them to me--I will have them!"

The captain brushed aside her hand as easily as a child would brush aside a flower. His lips
were tight shut, his eyes flashing.

"You want me to lie to the department?"

"YES!" She was beside herself now with fear and rage. "I don't care who you lie to! You brute--you
coward-- I want them! I will have them!" Again she made a spring for the letters.

"See here, you she-devil. Look at me!"--the words came in cold, cutting tones. "You're the
only thing livin', or dead, that ever dared ask Nathaniel Holt to do a thing like that. And
you think I'd do it to oblige ye? You're rotten as punk--that's what ye are! Rotten from yer
keel to yer top-gallant! and allus have been since I knowed ye!"

Jane started forward and faced the now enraged man.

"You must not, captain--you shall not speak to my sister that way!" she commanded.

The doctor stopped between them: "You forget that she is a woman. I forbid you to--"

"I will, I tell ye, doctor! It's true, and you know it." The captain's voice now dominated
the room.

"That's no reason why you should abuse her. You're too much of a man to act as you do."

"It's because I'm a man that I do act this way. She's done nothin' but bring trouble to this
town ever since she landed in it from school nigh twenty year ago. Druv out that dead boy of
mine lyin' there, and made a tramp of him; throwed Archie off on Miss Jane; lied to the man
who married her, and been livin' a lie ever since. And now she wants me to break my oath! Damn
her--"

The doctor laid his hand over the captain's mouth. "Stop! And I mean it!" His own calm eyes
were flashing now. "This is not the place for talk of this kind. We are in the presence of
death, and--"

The captain caught the doctor's wrist and held it like a vice.

"I won't stop. I'll have it out--I've lived all the lies I'm goin' to live! I told you all
this fifteen year ago when I thought Bart was dead, and you wanted me to keep shut, and I did,
and you did, too, and you ain't never opened your mouth since. That's because you're a man--all
four square sides of ye. You didn't want to hurt Miss Jane, and no more did I. That's why I
passed Archie there in the street; that's why I turned round and looked after him when I couldn't
see sometimes for the tears in my eyes; and all to save that THING there that ain't worth savin'!
By God, when I think of it I want to tear my tongue out for keepin' still as long as I have!"

Lucy, who had shrunk back against the wall, now raised her head:

"Coward! Coward!" she muttered.

The captain turned and faced her, his eyes blazing, his rage uncontrollable:

"Yes, you're a THING, I tell ye!--and I'll say it ag'in. I used to think it was Bart's fault.
Now I know it warn't. It was yours. You tricked him, damn ye! Do ye hear? Ye tricked him with
yer lies and yer ways. Now they're over--there'll be no more lies--not while I live! I'm goin'
to strip ye to bare poles so's folks 'round here kin see. Git out of my way--all of ye! Out,
I tell ye!"

The doctor had stepped in front of the infuriated man, his back to the closed door, his open
palm upraised.

"I will not, and you shall not!" he cried. "What you are about do to is ruin--for Lucy, for
Jane, and for little Ellen. You cannot--you shall not put such a stain upon that child. You
love her, you--"

"Yes--too well to let that woman touch her ag'in if I kin help it!" The fury of the merciless
sea was in him now--the roar and pound of the surf in his voice. "She'll be a curse to the
child all her days; she'll go back on her when she's a mind to just as she did on Archie. There
ain't a dog that runs the streets that would 'a' done that. She didn't keer then, and she don't
keer now, with him a-lyin' dead there. She ain't looked at him once nor shed a tear. It's too
late. All hell can't stop me! Out of my way, I tell ye, doctor, or I'll hurt ye!"

With a wrench he swung back the doors and flung himself into the light.

"Come in, men! Isaac, Green--all of ye--and you over there! I got something to say, and I don't
want ye to miss a word of it! You, too, Mr. Feilding, and that lady next ye--and everybody
else that kin hear!

"That's my son, Barton Holt, lyin' there dead! The one I druv out o' here nigh twenty year
ago. It warn't for playin' cards, but on account of a woman; and there she stands--Lucy Cobden!
That dead boy beside him is their child--my own grandson, Archie! Out of respect to the best
woman that ever lived, Miss Jane Cobden, I've kep' still. If anybody ain't satisfied all they
got to do is to look over these letters. That's all!"

Lucy, with a wild, despairing look at Max, had sunk to the floor and lay cowering beneath the
lifeboat, her face hidden in the folds of her cloak.

Jane had shrunk back behind one of the big folding doors and stood concealed from the gaze
of the astonished crowd, many of whom were pressing into the entrance. Her head was on the
doctor's shoulder, her fingers had tight hold of his sleeve. Doctor John's arms were about
her frail figure, his lips close to her cheek.

"Don't, dear--don't," he said softly. "You have nothing to reproach yourself with. Your life
has been one long sacrifice."

"Oh, but Archie, John! Think of my boy being gone! Oh, I loved him so, John!"

"You made a man of him, Jane. All he was he owed to you." He was holding her to him--comforting
her as a father would a child.

"And my poor Lucy," Jane moaned on, "and the awful, awful disgrace!" Her face was still hidden
in his shoulder, her frame shaking with the agony of her grief, the words coming slowly, as
if wrung one by one out of her breaking heart.

"You did your duty, dear--all of it." His lips were close to her ear. No one else heard.

"And you knew it all these years, John--and you did not tell me."

"It was your secret, dear; not mine."

"Yes, I know--but I have been so blind--so foolish. I have hurt you so often, and you have
been so true through it all. O John, please--please forgive me! My heart has been so sore at
times--I have suffered so!"

Then, with a quick lifting of her head, as if the thought alarmed her, she asked in sudden haste:

"And you love me, John, just the same? Say you love me, John!"

He gathered her closer, and his lips touched her cheek:

"I never remember, my darling, when I did not love you. Have you ever doubted me?"

"No, John, no! Never, never! Kiss me again, my beloved. You are all I have in the world!"

THE END