PERSONAL MEMOIRES OF P. H. SHERIDAN

VOLUME II.

Part 6

By Philip Henry Sheridan

CHAPTER XII.

AT FORT LEAVENWORTH--THE TREATY OF MEDICINE LODGE--GOING TO FORT DODGE--DISCONTENTED INDIANS--INDIAN
OUTRAGES--A DELEGATION OF CHIEFS --TERRIBLE INDIAN RAID--DEATH OF COMSTOCK--VAST HERDS OF BUFFALO
--PREPARING FOR A WINTER CAMPAIGN--MEETING "BUFFALO BILL" --HE UNDERTAKES A DANGEROUS TASK--FORSYTH'S
GALLANT FIGHT--RESCUED.

The headquarters of the military department to which I was assigned when relieved from duty
at New Orleans was at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, and on the 5th of September I started for that
post.  In due time I reached St. Louis, and stopped there a day to accept an ovation tendered
in approval of the course I had pursued in the Fifth Military District--a public demonstration
apparently of the most sincere and hearty character.

From St. Louis to Leavenworth took but one night, and the next day I technically complied with
my orders far enough to permit General Hancock to leave the department, so that he might go
immediately to New Orleans if he so desired, but on account of the yellow fever epidemic then
prevailing, he did not reach the city till late in November.

My new command was one of the four military departments that composed the geographical division
then commanded by Lieutenant-General Sherman.  This division had been formed in 1866, with
a view to controlling the Indians west of the Missouri River, they having become very restless
and troublesome because of the building of the Pacific railroads through their hunting-grounds,
and the encroachments of pioneers, who began settling in middle and western Kansas and eastern
Colorado immediately after the war.

My department embraced the States of Missouri and Kansas, the Indian Territory, and New Mexico.
Part of this section of country--western Kansas particularly--had been frequently disturbed
and harassed during two or three years past, the savages every now and then massacring an isolated
family, boldly attacking the surveying and construction parties of the Kansas-Pacific railroad,
sweeping down on emigrant trains, plundering and burning stage-stations and the like along
the Smoky Hill route to Denver and the Arkansas route to New Mexico.

However, when I relieved Hancock, the department was comparatively quiet.  Though some military
operations had been conducted against the hostile tribes in the early part of the previous
summer, all active work was now suspended in the attempt to conclude a permanent peace with
the Cheyennes, Arapahoes, Kiowas, and Comanches, in compliance with the act of Congress creating
what was known as the Indian Peace Commission of 1867.

Under these circumstances there was little necessity for my remaining at Leavenworth, and as
I was much run down in health from the Louisiana climate, in which I had been obliged to live
continuously for three summers (one of which brought epidemic cholera, and another a scourge
of yellow fever), I took a leave of absence for a few months, leaving Colonel A. J. Smith,
of the Seventh Cavalry, temporarily in charge of my command.

On this account I did not actually go on duty in the department of the Missouri till March,
1868.  On getting back I learned that the negotiations of the Peace Commissioners held at Medicine
Lodge, about seventy miles south of Fort Larned had resulted in a treaty with the Cheyennes,
Arapahoes, Kiowas, and Comanches, by which agreement it was supposed all troubles had been
settled.  The compact, as concluded, contained numerous provisions, the most important to us
being one which practically relinquished the country between the Arkansas and Platte rivers
for white settlement; another permitted the peaceable construction of the Pacific railroads
through the same region; and a third requiring the tribes signing the treaty to retire to reservations
allotted them in the Indian Territory.  Although the chiefs and head-men were well-nigh unanimous
in ratifying these concessions, it was discovered in the spring of 1868 that many of the young
men were bitterly opposed to what had been done, and claimed that most of the signatures had
been obtained by misrepresentation and through proffers of certain annuities, and promises
of arms and ammunition to be issued in the spring of 1868.  This grumbling was very general
in extent, and during the winter found outlet in occasional marauding, so, fearing a renewal
of the pillaging and plundering at an early day, to prepare myself for the work evidently ahead
the first thing I did on assuming permanent command was to make a trip to Fort Larned and Fort
Dodge, near which places the bulk of the Indians had congregated on Pawnee and Walnut creeks.
I wanted to get near enough to the camps to find out for myself the actual state of feeling
among the savages, and also to familiarize myself with the characteristics of the Plains Indians,
for my previous experience had been mainly with mountain tribes on the Pacific coast.  Fort
Larned I found too near the camps for my purpose, its proximity too readily inviting unnecessary
"talks," so I remained here but a day or two, and then went on to Dodge, which, though considerably
farther away from the camps, was yet close enough to enable us to obtain easily information
of all that was going on.

It took but a few days at Dodge to discover that great discontent existed about the Medicine
Lodge concessions, to see that the young men were chafing and turbulent, and that it would
require much tact and good management on the part of the Indian Bureau to persuade the four
tribes to go quietly to their reservations, under an agreement which, when entered into, many
of them protested had not been fully understood.

A few hours after my arrival a delegation of prominent chiefs called on me and proposed a council,
where they might discuss their grievances, and thus bring to the notice of the Government the
alleged wrongs done them; but this I refused, because Congress had delegated to the Peace Commission
the whole matter of treating with them, and a council might lead only to additional complications.
My refusal left them without hope of securing better terms, or of even delaying matters longer;
so henceforth they were more than ever reckless and defiant.  Denunciations of the treaty became
outspoken, and as the young braves grew more and more insolent every day, it amounted to conviction
that, unless by some means the irritation was allayed, hostilities would surely be upon us
when the buffalo returned to their summer feeding-grounds between the Arkansas and the Platte.

The principal sufferers in this event would be the settlers in middle and western Kansas, who,
entirely ignorant of the dangers hanging over them, were laboring to build up homes in a new
country.  Hence the maintenance of peace was much to be desired, if it could be secured without
too great concessions, and although I would not meet the different tribes in a formal council,
yet, to ward off from settlers as much as possible the horrors of savage warfare, I showed,
by resorting to persuasive methods, my willingness to temporize a good deal.  An abundant supply
of rations is usually effective to keep matters quiet in such cases, so I fed them pretty freely,
and also endeavored to control them through certain men who, I found, because of former associations,
had their confidence.  These men, employed as scouts, or interpreters, were Mr. William Comstock,
Mr. Abner S. Grover, and Mr. Richard Parr.  They had lived on the Plains for many years with
different tribes of Indians, had trapped and hunted with them, and knew all the principal chiefs
and headmen. Through such influences, I thought I saw good chances of preserving peace, and
of inducing the discontented to go quietly to their reservations in the Indian Territory as
soon as General Hazen, the representative of the Peace Commissioners, was ready to conduct
them there from Fort Larned.

Before returning to Leavenworth I put my mediators (as I may call them) under charge of an
officer of the army, Lieutenant F. W. Beecher, a very intelligent man, and directed him to
send them out to visit among the different tribes, in order to explain what was intended by
the treaty of Medicine Lodge, and to make every effort possible to avert hostilities.  Under
these instructions Comstock and Grover made it their business to go about among the Cheyennes--the
most warlike tribe of all--then camping about the headwaters of Pawnee and Walnut creeks, and
also to the north and west of Fort Wallace, while Parr spent his time principally with the
Kiowas and Comanches.

From the different posts--Wallace, Dodge, and Larned Lieutenant Beecher kept up communication
with all three scouts, and through him I heard from them at least once a week.  Every now and
then some trouble along the railroad or stage routes would be satisfactorily adjusted and quiet
restored, and matters seemed to be going on very well, the warm weather bringing the grass
and buffalo in plenty, and still no outbreak, nor any act of downright hostility.  So I began
to hope that we should succeed in averting trouble till the favorite war season of the Indians
was over, but the early days of August rudely ended our fancied tranquility.

In July the encampments about Fort Dodge began to break up, each band or tribe moving off to
some new location north of the Arkansas, instead of toward its proper reservation to the south
of that river. Then I learned presently that a party of Cheyennes had made a raid on the Kaws--a
band of friendly Indians living near Council Grove--and stolen their horses, and also robbed
the houses of several white people near Council Grove.  This raid was the beginning of the
Indian war of 1868.  Immediately following it, the Comanches and Kiowas came to Fort Larned
to receive their annuities, expecting to get also the arms and ammunition promised them at
Medicine Lodge, but the raid to Council Grove having been reported to the Indian Department,
the issue of arms was suspended till reparation was made.  This action of the Department greatly
incensed the savages, and the agent's offer of the annuities without guns and pistols was insolently
refused, the Indians sulking back to their camps, the young men giving themselves up to war-dances,
and to powwows with "medicine-men," till all hope of control was gone.

Brevet Brigadier-General Alfred Sully, an officer of long experience in Indian matters, who
at this time was in command of the District of the Arkansas, which embraced Forts Larned and
Dodge, having notified me of these occurrences at Larned, and expressed the opinion that the
Indians were bent on mischief, I directed him there immediately to act against them.  After
he reached Larned, the chances for peace appeared more favorable.  The Indians came to see
him, and protested that it was only a few bad young men who had been depredating, and that
all would be well and the young men held in check if the agent would but issue the arms and
ammunition.  Believing their promises, Sully thought that the delivery of the arms would solve
all the difficulties, so on his advice the agent turned them over along with the annuities,
the Indians this time condescendingly accepting.

This issue of arms and ammunition was a fatal mistake; Indian diplomacy had overreached Sully's
experience, and even while the delivery was in progress a party of warriors had already begun
a raid of murder and rapine, which for acts of devilish cruelty perhaps has no parallel in
savage warfare.  The party consisted of about two hundred Cheyennes and a few Arapahoes, with
twenty Sioux who had been visiting their friends, the Cheyennes.  As near as could be ascertained,
they organized and left their camps along Pawnee Creek about the 3d of August.  Traveling northeast,
they skirted around Fort Harker, and made their first appearance among the settlers in the
Saline Valley, about thirty miles north of that post.  Professing friendship and asking food
at the farm-houses, they saw the unsuspecting occupants comply by giving all they could spare
from their scanty stores.  Knowing the Indian's inordinate fondness for coffee, particularly
when well sweetened, they even served him this luxury freely.  With this the demons began their
devilish work. Pretending to be indignant because it was served them in tin cups, they threw
the hot contents into the women's faces, and then, first making prisoners of the men, they,
one after another, ravished the women till the victims became insensible.  For some inexplicable
reason the two farmers were neither killed nor carried off, so after the red fiends had gone,
the unfortunate women were brought in to Fort Harker, their arrival being the first intimation
to the military that hostilities had actually begun.

Leaving the Saline, this war-party crossed over to the valley of the Solomon, a more thickly
settled region, and where the people were in better circumstances, their farms having been
started two or three years before.  Unaware of the hostile character of the raiders, the people
here received them in the friendliest way, providing food, and even giving them ammunition,
little dreaming of what was impending. These kindnesses were requited with murder and pillage,
and worse, for all the women who fell into their hands were subjected to horrors indescribable
by words.  Here also the first murders were committed, thirteen men and two women being killed.
Then, after burning five houses and stealing all the horses they could find, they turned back
toward the Saline, carrying away as prisoners two little girls named Bell, who have never been
heard of since.

It was probably the intention to finish, as they marched back to the south, the devilish work
begun on the Saline, but before they reached that valley on the return, the victims left there
originally had fled to Fort Harker, as already explained, and Captain Benteen was now nearing
the little settlement with a troop of cavalry, which he had hurriedly marched from Fort Zarah.
The savages were attacking the house of a Mr. Schermerhorn, where a few of the settlers had
collected for defense, when Benteen approached.  Hearing the firing, the troopers rode toward
the sound at a gallop, but when they appeared in view, coming over the hills, the Indians fled
in all directions, escaping punishment through their usual tactics of scattering over the Plains,
so as to leave no distinctive trail.

When this frightful raid was taking place, Lieutenant Beecher, with his three scouts--Comstock,
Grover, and Parr--was on Walnut Creek. Indefinite rumors about troubles on the Saline and Solomon
reaching him, he immediately sent Comstock and Grover over to the headwaters of the Solomon,
to the camp of a band of Cheyennes, whose chief was called "Turkey Leg," to see if any of the
raiders belonged there; to learn the facts, and make explanations, if it was found that the
white people had been at fault.  For years this chief had been a special friend of Comstock
and Grover.  They had trapped, hunted, and lived with his band, and from this intimacy they
felt confident of being able to get "Turkey Leg" to quiet his people, if any of them were engaged
in the raid; and, at all events, they expected, through him and his band, to influence the
rest of the Cheyennes.  From the moment they arrived in the Indian village, however, the two
scouts met with a very cold reception.  Neither friendly pipe nor food was offered them, and
before they could recover from their chilling reception, they were peremptorily ordered out
of the village, with the intimation that when the Cheyennes were on the war-path the presence
of whites was intolerable.  The scouts were prompt to leave, of course, and for a few miles
were accompanied by an escort of seven young men, who said they were sent with them to protect
the two from harm.  As the party rode along over the prairie, such a depth of attachment was
professed for Comstock and Grover that, notwithstanding all the experience of their past lives,
they were thoroughly deceived, and in the midst of a friendly conversation some of the young
warriors fell suddenly to the rear and treacherously fired on them.

At the volley Comstock fell from his horse instantly killed.  Grover, badly wounded in the
shoulder, also fell to the ground near Comstock Seeing his comrade was dead, Grover made use
of his friend's body to protect himself, lying close behind it.  Then took place a remarkable
contest, Grover, alone and severely wounded, obstinately fighting the seven Indians, and holding
them at bay for the rest of the day. Being an expert shot, and having a long-range repeating
rifle, he "stood off" the savages till dark.  Then cautiously crawling away on his belly to
a deep ravine, he lay close, suffering terribly from his wound, till the following night, when,
setting out for Fort Wallace, he arrived there the succeeding day, almost crazed from pain
and exhaustion.

Simultaneously with the fiendish atrocities committed on the Saline and Solomon rivers and
the attack on Comstock and Grover, the pillaging and murdering began on the Smoky Hill stage-route,
along the upper Arkansas River and on the headwaters of the Cimarron.  That along the Smoky
Hill and north of it was the exclusive work of, the Cheyennes, a part of the Arapahoes, and
the few Sioux allies heretofore mentioned, while the raiding on the Arkansas and Cimarron was
done principally by the Kiowas under their chief, Satanta, aided by some of the Comanches.
The young men of these tribes set out on their bloody work just after the annuities and guns
were issued at Larned, and as soon as they were well on the road the rest of the Comanches
and Kiowas escaped from the post and fled south of the Arkansas.  They were at once pursued
by General Sully with a small force, but by the time he reached the Cimarron the war-party
had finished its raid on the upper Arkansas, and so many Indians combined against Sully that
he was compelled to withdraw to Fort Dodge, which he reached not without considerable difficulty,
and after three severe fights.

These, and many minor raids which followed, made it plain that a general outbreak was upon
us.  The only remedy, therefore, was to subjugate the savages immediately engaged in the forays
by forcing the several tribes to settle down on the reservations set apart by the treaty of
Medicine Lodge.  The principal mischief-makers were the Cheyennes.  Next in deviltry were the
Kiowas, and then the Arapahoes and Comanches.  Some few of these last two tribes continued
friendly, or at least took no active part in the raiding, but nearly all the young men of both
were the constant allies of the Cheyennes and Kiowas.  All four tribes together could put on
the war-path a formidable force of about 6,000 warriors.  The subjugation of this number of
savages would be no easy task, so to give the matter my undivided attention I transferred my
headquarters from Leavenworth to Fort Hays, a military post near which the prosperous town
of Hays City now stands.

Fort Hays was just beyond the line of the most advanced settlements, and was then the terminus
of the Kansas-Pacific railroad.  For this reason it could be made a depot of supplies, and
was a good point from which to supervise matters in the section of country to be operated in,
which district is a part of the Great American Plains, extending south from the Platte River
in Nebraska to the Red River in the Indian Territory, and westward from the line of frontier
settlements to the foothills of the Rocky Mountains, a vast region embracing an area of about
150,000 square miles.  With the exception of a half-dozen military posts and a few stations
on the two overland emigrant routes--the Smoky Hill to Denver, and the Arkansas to New Mexico--this
country was an unsettled waste known only to the Indians and a few trappers.  There were neither
roads nor well-marked trails, and the only timber to be found--which generally grew only along
the streams--was so scraggy and worthless as hardly to deserve the name. Nor was water by any
means plentiful, even though the section is traversed by important streams, the Republican,
the Smoky Hill, the Arkansas, the Cimarron, and the Canadian all flowing eastwardly, as do
also their tributaries in the main.  These feeders are sometimes long and crooked, but as a
general thing the volume of water is insignificant except after rain-falls.  Then, because
of unimpeded drainage, the little streams fill up rapidly with torrents of water, which quickly
flows off or sinks into the sand, leaving only an occasional pool without visible inlet or outlet.

At the period of which I write, in 1868, the Plains were covered with vast herds of buffalo--the
number has been estimated at 3,000,000 head--and with such means of subsistence as this everywhere
at hand, the 6,000 hostiles were wholly unhampered by any problem of food-supply.  The savages
were rich too according to Indian standards, many a lodge owning from twenty to a hundred ponies;
and consciousness of wealth and power, aided by former temporizing, had made them not only
confident but defiant.  Realizing that their thorough subjugation would be a difficult task,
I made up my mind to confine operations during the grazing and hunting season to protecting
the people of the new settlements and on the overland routes, and then, when winter came, to
fall upon the savages relentlessly, for in that season their ponies would be thin, and weak
from lack of food, and in the cold and snow, without strong ponies to transport their villages
and plunder, their movements would be so much impeded that the troops could overtake them.

At the outbreak of hostilities I had in all, east of New Mexico, a force of regulars numbering
about 2,600 men--1,200 mounted and 1,400 foot troops.  The cavalry was composed of the Seventh
and Tenth regiments; the infantry, of the Third and Fifth regiments and four companies of the
Thirty-Eighth.  With these few troops all the posts along the Smoky Hill and Arkansas had to
be garrisoned, emigrant trains escorted, and the settlements and routes of travel and the construction
parties on the Kansas-Pacific railway protected.  Then, too, this same force had to furnish
for the field small movable columns, that were always on the go, so it will be rightly inferred
that every available man was kept busy from the middle of August till November; especially
as during this period the hostiles attacked over forty widely dispersed places, in nearly all
cases stealing horses, burning houses, and killing settlers.  It was of course impossible to
foresee where these descents would be made, but as soon as an attack was heard of assistance
was always promptly rendered, and every now and then we succeeded in killing a few savages.
As a general thing, though, the raiders escaped before relief arrived, and when they had a
few miles the start, all efforts to catch them were futile.  I therefore discouraged long pursuits,
and, in fact, did not approve of making any at all unless the chances of obtaining paying results
were very evident, otherwise the troops would be worn out by the time the hard work of the
winter was demanded from them.

To get ready for a winter campaign of six months gave us much to do. The thing most needed
was more men, so I asked for additional cavalry, and all that could be spareds--even troops
of the Fifth Cavalry--was sent tome.  Believing this reinforcement insufficient, to supplement
it I applied for a regiment of Kansas volunteers, which request being granted, the organization
of the regiment was immediately begun at Topeka.  It was necessary also to provide a large
amount of transportation and accumulate quantities of stores, since the campaign probably would
not end till spring.  Another important matter was to secure competent guides for the different
columns of troops, for, as I have said, the section of country to be operated in was comparatively
unknown.

In those days the railroad town of Hays City was filled with so called "Indian scouts," whose
common boast was of having slain scores of redskins, but the real scout--that is, a 'guide
and trailer knowing the habits of the Indians--was very scarce, and it was hard to find anybody
familiar with the country south of the Arkansas, where the campaign was to be made.  Still,
about Hays City and the various military posts there was some good material to select from,
and we managed to employ several men, who, from their experience on the Plains in various capacities,
or from natural instinct and aptitude, soon became excellent guides and courageous and valuable
scouts, some of them, indeed, gaining much distinction.  Mr. William F. Cody ("Buffalo Bill"),
whose renown has since become world-wide, was one of the men thus selected.  He received his
sobriquet from his marked success in killing buffaloes for a contractor, to supply fresh meat
to the construction parties, on the Kansas-Pacific railway.  He had given up this business,
however, and was now in the employ of the quartermaster's department of the army, and was first
brought to my notice by distinguishing himself in bringing me an important despatch from Fort
Larned to Fort Hays, a distance of sixty-five miles, through a section infested with Indians.
The despatch informed me that the Indians near Larned were preparing to decamp, and this intelligence
required that certain orders should be carried to Fort Dodge, ninety-five miles south of Hays.
This too being a particularly dangerous route--several couriers having been killed on it--it
was impossible to get one of the various "Petes," "Jacks," or "Jims" hanging around Hays City
to take my communication.  Cody learning of the strait I was in, manfully came to the rescue,
and proposed to make the trip to Dodge, though he had just finished his long and perilous ride
from Larned.  I gratefully accepted his offer, and after four or five hours' rest he mounted
a fresh horse and hastened on his journey, halting but once to rest on the way, and then only
for an hour, the stop being made at Coon Creek, where he got another mount from a troop of
cavalry.  At Dodge he took six hours' sleep, and then continued on to his own post--Fort Larned
--with more despatches.  After resting twelve hours at Larned, he was again in the saddle with
tidings for me at Fort Hays, General Hazen sending him, this time, with word that the villages
had fled to the south of the Arkansas.

The information brought me by Cody on his second trip from Larned indicated where the villages
would be found in the winter, and I decided to move on them about the 1st of November.  Only
the women and children and the decrepit old men were with the villages, however enough, presumably,
to look after the plunder most of the warriors remaining north of the Arkansas to continue
their marauding.  Many severe fights occurred between our troops and these marauders, and in
these affairs, before November 1 over a hundred Indians were killed, yet from the ease with
which the escaping savages would disappear only to fall upon remote settlements with pillage
and murder, the results were by no means satisfactory.  One of the most noteworthy of these
preliminary affairs was the gallant fight made on the Republican River the 17th of September
by my Aide, Colonel George A. Forsyth, and party, against about seven hundred Cheyennes and
Sioux. Forsyth, with Lieutenant Beecher, and Doctor J. H. Mooers as surgeon, was in charge
of a company of citizen scouts, mostly expert rifle-shots, but embracing also a few Indian
fighters, among these Grover and Parr.  The company was organized the latter part of August
for immediate work in defense of the settlements, and also for future use in the Indian Territory
when the campaign should open there.  About the time the company had reached its complement--it
was limited to forty-seven men and three officers--a small band of hostiles began depredations
near Sheridan City, one of the towns that grew up over-night on the Kansas-Pacific railway.
Forsyth pursued this party, but failing to overtake it, made his way into Fort Wallace for
rations, intending to return from there to Fort Hays.  Before he started back, however, another
band of Indians appeared near the post and stole some horses from the stage company.  This
unexpected raid made Forsyth hot to go for the marauders, and he telegraphed me for permission,
which I as promptly gave him.  He left the post on the 10th of September, the command consisting
of himself, Lieutenant Beecher, Acting Assistant Surgeon Mooers, and the full strength, forty-seven
men, with a few pack mules carrying about ten days' rations.

He headed north toward the Republican River.  For the first two days the trail was indistinct
and hard to follow.  During the next three it continued to grow much larger, indicating plainly
that the number of Indians ahead was rapidly increasing.  Of course this sign meant a fight
as soon as a large enough force was mustered, but as this was what Forsyth was after, he pushed
ahead with confidence and alacrity. The night of the 16th of September he encamped on the Arickaree
branch of the Republican, not far from the forks of the river, with the expectation of resuming
the march as usual next day, for the indications were that the main body of the savages must
be still a long way off, though in the preceding twenty-four hours an occasional Indian had
been seen.

But the enemy was much nearer than was thought, for at daybreak on the morning of the 17th
he made known his immediate presence by a sudden dash at Forsyth's horses, a few of which were
stampeded and captured before the scouts could reach them.  This dash was made by a small party
only to get the horses, so those engaged in it were soon driven off, but a few minutes later
hundreds of savages--it was afterward learned that seven hundred warriors took part in the
fight --hitherto invisible, showed themselves on the hills overlooking the camp and so menacingly
as to convince Forsyth that his defense must be one of desperation.  The only place at hand
that gave any hope of successful resistance was a small island in the Arickaree, the channel
on one side being about a foot deep while on the other it was completely dry; so to this position
a hurried retreat was made.  All the men and the remaining animals reached the island in safety,
but on account of the heavy fire poured in from the neighboring hills the packs containing
the rations and medicines had to be abandoned.

On seeing Forsyth's hasty move, the Indians, thinking they had him, prepared to overwhelm the
scouts by swooping down on one side of the island with about five hundred mounted warriors,
while about two hundred, covered by the tall grass in the river-bottom attacked the other side,
dismounted.  But the brave little band sadly disappointed them.  When the charge came it was
met with such a deadly fire that a large number of the fiends were killed, some of them even
after gaining the bank of the island.  This check had the effect of making the savages more
wary, but they were still bold enough to make two more assaults before mid-day.  Each of these
ending like the first, the Indians thereafter contented themselves with shooting all the horses,
which had been tied up to some scraggy little cottonwood-trees, and then proceeded to lay siege
to the party.

The first man struck was Forsyth himself.  He was hit three times in all--twice in one leg,
both serious wounds, and once on the head, a slight abrasion of the scalp.  A moment later
Beecher was killed and Doctor Mooers mortally wounded: and in addition to these misfortunes
the scouts kept getting hit, till several were killed, and the whole number of casualties had
reached twenty-one in a company of forty-seven.  Yet with all this, and despite the seeming
hopelessness of the situation, the survivors kept up their pluck undiminished, and during a
lull succeeding the third repulse dug into the loose soil till the entire party was pretty
well protected by rifle-pits.  Thus covered they stood off the Indians for the next three days,
although of course their condition became deplorable from lack of food, while those who were
hurt suffered indescribable agony, since no means were at hand for dressing their wounds.

By the third day the Indians, seeming to despair of destroying the beleaguered party before
succor might arrive, began to draw off, and on the fourth wholly disappeared.  The men were
by this time nearly famished for food.  Even now there was nothing to be had except horse-meat
from the carcasses of the animals killed the first day, and this, though decidedly unpalatable,
not to say disgusting, had to be put up with, and so on such unwholesome stuff they managed
to live for four days longer, at the end of which time they were rescued by a column of troops
under Colonel Bankhead, which had hastened from Fort Wallace in response to calls for help,
carried there by two brave fellows--Stilwell and Truedell--who, volunteering to go for relief,
had slipped through the Indians, and struck out for that post in the night after the first
day's fight.

CHAPTER XIII,

FITTING OUT THE WINTER EXPEDITION--ACCOMPANYING THE MAIN FORCE--THE OTHER COLUMNS--STRUCK BY
A BLIZZARD--CUSTER'S FIGHT ON THE WASHITA --DEFEAT AND DEATH OF BLACK KETTLE--MASSACRE OF ELLIOTT'S
PARTY --RELIEF OF COLONEL CRAWFORD.

The end of October saw completed the most of my arrangements for the winter campaign, though
the difficulties and hardships to be encountered had led several experienced officers of the
army, and some frontiersmen like Mr. James Bridger, the famous scout and, guide of earlier
days, to discourage the project.  Bridger even went so far as to come out from St. Louis to
dissuade me, but I reasoned that as the soldier was much better fed and clothed than the Indian,
I had one great advantage, and that, in short, a successful campaign could be made if the operations
of the different columns were energetically conducted.  To see to this I decided to go in person
with the main column, which was to push down into the western part of the Indian Territory,
having for its initial objective the villages which, at the beginning of hostilities, had fled
toward the head-waters of the Red River, and those also that had gone to the same remote region
after decamping from the neighborhood of Larned at the time that General Hazen sent Buffalo
Bill to me with the news.

The column which was expected to do the main work was to be composed of the Nineteenth Kansas
Volunteer Cavalry, commanded by Colonel Crawford; eleven troops of the Seventh United States
Cavalry, under General Custer, and a battalion of five companies of infantry under Brevet Major
John H. Page.  To facilitate matters, General Sully, the district commander, was ordered to
rendezvous these troops and establish a supply depot about a hundred miles south of Fort Dodge,
as from such a point operations could be more readily conducted.  He selected for the depot
a most suitable place at the confluence of Beaver and Wolf creeks, and on his arrival there
with Custer's and Page's commands, named the place Camp Supply.

In conjunction with the main column, two others also were to penetrate the Indian Territory.
One of these, which was to march east from New Mexico by way of Fort Bascom was to be composed
of six troops of the Third Cavalry and two companies of infantry, the whole under Colonel A.
W. Evans.  The other, consisting of seven troops of the Fifth Cavalry, and commanded by Brevet
Brigadier-General Eugene A. Carr, was to march southeast from Fort Lyon; the intention being
that Evans and Carr should destroy or drive in toward old Fort Cobb any straggling bands that
might be prowling through the country west of my own line of march; Carr, as he advanced, to
be joined by Brevet Brigadier-General W. H. Penrose, with five troops of cavalry already in
the field southeast of Lyon.  The Fort Bascom column, after establishing a depot of supplies
at Monument Creek, was to work down the main Canadian, and remain out as long as it could feed
itself from New Mexico; Carr, having united with Penrose on the North Canadian, was to operate
toward the Antelope Hills and headwaters of the Red River; while I, with the main column was
to move southward to strike the Indians along the Washita, or still farther south on branches
of the Red River.

It was no small nor easy task to outfit all these troops by the time cold weather set in, and
provide for them during the winter, but by the 1st of November I had enough supplies accumulated
at Forts Dodge and Lyon for my own and Carr's columns, and in addition directed subsistence
and forage for three months to be sent to Fort Gibson for final delivery at Fort Arbuckle,
as I expected to feed the command from this place when we arrived in the neighborhood of old
Fort Cobb, but through some mismanagement few of these stores got further than Gibson before
winter came on.

November 1, all being ready, Colonel Grawford was furnished with competent guides, and, after
sending two troops to Fort Dodge to act as my escort, with the rest of his regiment he started
from Topeka November 5, under orders to march straight for the rendezvous at the junction of
Beaver and Wolf creeks.  He was expected to reach his destination about the 20th, and there
unite with the Seventh Cavalry and the battalion of infantry, which in the mean time were on
the march from Dodge.  A few days later Carr and Evans began their march also, and everything
being now in motion, I decided to go to Camp Supply to give the campaign my personal attention,
determined to prove that operations could be successfully conducted in spite of winter, and
bent on showing the Indians that they were not secure from punishment because of inclement
weather--an ally on which they had hitherto relied with much assurance.

We started from Fort Hays on the 15th of November, and the first night out a blizzard struck
us and carried away our tents; and as the gale was so violent that they could not be put up
again, the rain and snow drenched us to the skin.  Shivering from wet and cold, I took refuge
under a wagon, and there spent such a miserable night that, when at last morning came, the
gloomy predictions of old man Bridger and others rose up before me with greatly increased force.
As we took the road the sleet and snow were still falling, but we labored on to Dodge that
day in spite of the fact that many of the mules played out on the way.  We stayed only one
night at Dodge, and then on the 17th, escorted by a troop of cavalry and Forsyth's scouts,
now under the command of Lieutenant Lewis Pepoon, crossed the Arkansas and camped the night
of the 18th at Bluff Creek, where the two troops of the Nineteenth Kansas, previously detailed
as my escort, were awaiting our coming.  As we were approaching this camp some suspicious looking
objects were seen moving off at a long distance to the east of us, but as the scouts confidently
pronounced them buffalo, we were unaware of their true character till next morning, when we
became satisfied that what we had seen were Indians, for immediately after crossing Beaver
Creek we struck a trail, leading to the northeast, of a war party that evidently came up from
the head-waters of the Washita River.

The evening of November 21st arrived at the Camp Supply depot, having traveled all day in another
snowstorm that did not end till twenty-four hours later.  General Sully, with Custer's regiment
and the infantry battalion, had reached the place several days before, but the Kansas regiment
had not yet put in an appearance.  All hands were hard at work trying to shelter the stores
and troops, but from the trail seen that morning, believing that an opportunity offered to
strike an effective blow, I directed Custer to call in his working parties and prepare to move
immediately, without waiting for Crawford's regiment, unaccountably absent.  Custer was ready
to start by the 23d, and he was then instructed to march north to where the trail had been
seen near Beaver Creek and follow it on the back track, for, being convinced that the war party
had come from the Washita, I felt certain that this plan would lead directly to the villages.

The difficulties attending a winter campaign were exhibited now with their full force, as the
march had to be conducted through a snow-storm that hid surrounding objects, and so covered
the country as to alter the appearance of the prominent features, making the task of the guides
doubly troublesome; but in spite of these obstacles fifteen miles had been traversed when Custer
encamped for the night. The next day the storm had ceased, and the weather was clear and cold.
The heavy fall of snow had of course obliterated the trail in the bottoms, and everywhere on
the level; but, thanks to the wind, that had swept comparatively bare the rough places and
high ground, the general direction could be traced without much trouble.  The day's march,
which was through a country abounding with buffalo, was unattended by any special incident
at first, but during the afternoon, after getting the column across the Canadian River--an
operation which, on account of the wagons, consumed considerable time--Custer's scouts (friendly
Osages) brought back word that, some miles ahead, they had struck fresh signs, a trail coming
into the old one from the north, which, in their opinion, indicated that the war party was
returning to the villages.

On the receipt of this news, Custer, leaving a guard with the wagons, hastily assembled the
rest of his men' and pushing on rapidly, overtook the scouts and a detailed party from his
regiment which had accompanied them, all halted on the new trail awaiting his arrival. A personal
examination satisfied Custer that the surmises of his scouts were correct; and also that the
fresh trail in the deep snow could at night be followed with ease.  After a short halt for
supper and rest the pursuit was resumed, the Osage scouts in advance, and although the hostile
Indians were presumed to be yet some distance off, every precaution was taken to prevent detection
and to enable our troops to strike them unawares.  The fresh trail, which it was afterward
ascertained had been made by raiders from Black Kettle's village of Cheyennes, and by some
Arapahoes, led into the valley of the Washita, and growing fresher as the night wore on, finally
brought the Osages upon a campfire, still smoldering, which, it was concluded, had been built
by the Indian boys acting as herders of the ponies during the previous day.  It was evident,
then, that the village could be but a few miles off; hence the pursuit was continued with redoubled
caution until, a few hours before dawn of the 27th, as the leading scouts peered over a rise
on the line of march, they discovered a large body of animals in the valley below.

As soon as they reported this discovery, Custer determined to acquaint himself with the situation
by making a reconnoissance in person, accompanied by his principal officers.  So, sending back
word to halt the cavalry, he directed the officers to ride forward with him; then dismounting,
the entire party crept cautiously to a high point which overlooked the valley, and from where,
by the bright moon then shining, they saw just how the village was situated. Its position was
such as to admit of easy approach from all sides.  So, to preclude an escape of the Indians,
Custer decided to attack at daybreak, and from four different directions.

The plan having been fully explained to the officers, the remaining hours of the night were
employed in making the necessary dispositions.  Two of the detachments left promptly, since
they had to make a circuitous march of several miles to Teach the points designated for their
attack; the third started a little later; and then the fourth and last, under Custer himself,
also moved into position.  As the first light grew visible in the east, each column moved closer
in to the village, and then, all dispositions having been made according to the prearranged
plan, from their appointed places the entire force to the opening notes of "Garry Owen," played
by the regimental band as the signal for the attack--dashed at a gallop into the village. 
The sleeping and unsuspecting savages were completely surprised by the onset; yet after the
first confusion, during which the impulse to escape principally actuated them, they seized
their weapons, and from behind logs and trees, or plunging into the stream and using its steep
bank as a breastwork, they poured upon their assailants a heavy fire, and kept on fighting
with every exhibition of desperation.  In such a combat mounted men were useless, so Custer
directed his troopers to fight on, foot, and the Indians were successively driven from one
point of vantage to another, until, finally, by 9 o'clock the entire camp was in his possession
and the victory complete.  Black Kettle and over one hundred of his warriors were killed, and
about fifty women and children captured; but most of the noncombatants, as well as a few warriors
and boys, escaped in the confusion of the fight.  Making their way down the river, these fugitives
alarmed the rest of the Cheyennes and Arapahoes, and also the Kiowas and Comanches, whose villages
were in close proximity--the nearest not more than two miles off.

Then of course all the warriors of these tribes rallied to attack Custer, who meantime was
engaged burning Black Kettle's camp and collecting his herds of ponies.  But these new foes
were rather wary and circumspect, though they already had partial revenge in an unlooked for
way by cutting off Major Elliott and fifteen men, who had gone off in pursuit of a batch of
young warriors when the fight was going on at the village.  In fact, the Indians had killed
Elliott's whole party, though neither the fate of the poor fellows, nor how they happened to
be caught, was known till long afterward. It was then ascertained that the detachment pursued
a course due south, nearly at right angles to the Washita River, and after galloping a couple
of miles over the hills, crossing a small branch of the Washita on the way, they captured some
of the fugitives.  In bringing the prisoners back, Elliott was in turn attacked on the open
prairie by a large number of savages from farther down the Washita, who by this time were swarming
to the aid of Black Kettle's village. The little band fought its way gallantly to within rifle-range
of the small creek referred to, but could get no farther, for the Indians had taken up a position
in the bed of the stream, and from under cover of its banks Elliott and all his remaining men
were quickly killed.  No relief was sent them, for Custer, not having seen Elliott set out,
knew nothing of the direction taken, and, besides, was busy burning the villages and securing
the ponies, and deeply concerned, too, with defending himself from the new dangers menacing
him. Elliott and his brave little party were thus left to meet their fate alone.

While Custer was burning the lodges and plunder and securing the ponies, the Indians from the
villages down the Washita were gathering constantly around him till by mid-day they had collected
in thousands, and then came a new problem as to what should be done.  If he attacked the other
villages, there was great danger of his being overwhelmed, and should he start back to Camp
Supply by daylight, he would run the risk of losing his prisoners and the ponies, so, thinking
the matter over, he decided to shoot all the ponies, and keep skirmishing with the savages
till nightfall, and then, under cover of the darkness, return to Camp Supply; a programme that
was carried out successfully, but Custer's course received some severe criticism because no
effort was made to discover what had become of Elliott.

Custer had, in all, two officers and nineteen men killed, and two officers and eleven men wounded.
The blow struck was a most effective one, and, fortunately, fell on one of the most villainous
of the hostile bands that, without any provocation whatever, had perpetrated the massacres
on the Saline and Solomon, committing atrocities too repulsive for recital, and whose hands
were still red from their bloody work on the recent raid.  Black Kettle, the chief, was an
old man, and did not himself go with the raiders to the Saline and Solomon, and on this account
his fate was regretted by some.  But it was old age only that kept him back, for before the
demons set out from Walnut Creek he had freely encouraged them by "making medicine," and by
other devilish incantations that are gone through with at war and scalp dances.

When the horrible work was over he undertook to shield himself by professions of friendship,
but being put to the test by my offering to feed and care for all of his band who would come
in to Fort Dodge and remain there peaceably, he defiantly refused.  The consequence of this
refusal was a merited punishment, only too long delayed.

I received the first news of Custer's fight on the Washita on the morning of November 29. 
It was brought to me by one of his white scouts, "California Joe," a noted character, who had
been experiencing the ups and downs of pioneer life ever since crossing the Plains in 1849.
Joe was an invaluable guide and Indian fighter whenever the clause of the statute prohibiting
liquors in the Indian country happened to be in full force.  At the time in question the restriction
was by no means a dead letter, and Joe came through in thirty-six hours, though obliged to
keep in hiding during daylight of the 28th.  The tidings brought were joyfully received by
everybody at Camp Supply, and they were particularly agreeable tome, for, besides being greatly
worried about the safety of the command in the extreme cold and deep snows, I knew that the
immediate effect a victory would be to demoralize the rest of the hostiles, which of course
would greatly facilitate and expedite our ultimate success.  Toward evening the day after Joe
arrived the head of Custer's column made its appearance on the distant hills, the friendly
Osage scouts and the Indian prisoners in advance.  As they drew near, the scouts began a wild
and picturesque performance in celebration of the victory, yelling, firing their guns, throwing
themselves on the necks and sides of their horses to exhibit their skill in riding, and going
through all sorts of barbaric evolutions and gyrations, which were continued till night, when
the rejoicings were ended with the hideous scalp dance.

The disappearance of Major Elliott and his party was the only damper upon our pleasure, and
the only drawback to the very successful expedition.  There was no definite information as
to the detachment, --and Custer was able to report nothing more than that he had not seen Elliott
since just before the fight began.  His theory was, however, that Elliott and his men had strayed
off on account of having no guide, and would ultimately come in all right to Camp Supply or
make their way back to Fort Dodge; a very unsatisfactory view of the matter, but as no one
knew the direction Elliott had taken, it was useless to speculate on other suppositions, and
altogether too late to make any search for him.  I was now anxious to follow up Custer's stroke
by an immediate move to the south with the entire column, but the Kansas regiment had not yet
arrived.  At first its nonappearance did not worry me much, for I attributed the delay to the
bad weather, and supposed Colonel Crawford had wisely laid up during the worst storms.  Further,
waiting, however, would give the Indians a chance to recover from the recent dispiriting defeat,
so I sent out scouting parties to look Crawford up and hurry him along. After a great deal
of searching, a small detachment of the regiment was found about fifty miles below us on the
North Canadian, seeking our camp.  This detachment was in a pretty bad plight, and when brought
in, the officer in charge reported that the regiment, by not following the advice of the guide
sent to conduct it to Camp Supply, had lost its way.  Instead of relying on the guides, Crawford
had undertaken to strike through the canyons of the Cimarron by what appeared to him a more
direct route, and in the deep gorges, filled as they were with snow, he had been floundering
about for days without being able to extricate his command.  Then, too, the men were out of
rations, though they had been able to obtain enough buffalo meat to keep from starving.  As
for the horses, since they could get no grass, about seven hundred of them had already perished
from starvation and exposure.  Provisions and guides were immediately sent out to the regiment,
but before the relief could reach Crawford his remaining horses were pretty much all gone,
though the men were brought in without loss of life.  Thus, the regiment being dismounted by
this misfortune at the threshold of the campaign, an important factor of my cavalry was lost
to me, though as foot-troops the Kansas volunteers continued to render very valuable services
till mustered out the next spring.

CHAPTER XIV.

A WINTER EXPEDITION--HERDS OF BUFFALO--WOLVES--BLIZZARDS--A TERRIBLE NIGHT--FINDING THE BODIES
OF ELLIOTT'S PARTY--THE ABANDONED INDIAN CAMPS--PUSHING DOWN THE WASHITA--THE CAPTURED CHIEFS--EVANS'S
SUCCESSFUL FIGHT--ESTABLISHING FORT SILL--"CALIFORNIA JOE"--DUPLICITY OF THE CHEYENNES--ORDERED
TO REPAIR TO WASHINGTON.

A few days were necessarily lost setting up and refitting the Kansas regiment after its rude
experience in the Cimarron canyons.  This through with, the expedition, supplied with thirty
days' rations, moved out to the south on the 7th of December, under my personal command.  We
headed for the Witchita Mountains, toward which rough region all the villages along the Washita
River had fled after Custer's fight with Black Kettle.  My line of march was by way of Custer's
battle-field, and thence down the Washita, and if the Indians could not sooner be brought to
terms, I intended to follow them into the Witchita Mountains from near old Fort Cobb.  The
snow was still deep everywhere, and when we started the thermometer was below zero, but the
sky being clear and the day very bright, the command was in excellent spirits.  The column
was made up of ten companies of the Kansas regiment, dismounted; eleven companies of the Seventh
Cavalry, Pepoon's scouts, and the Osage scouts.  In addition to Pepoon's men and the Osages,
there was also "California Joe," and one or two other frontiersmen besides, to act as guides
and interpreters.  Of all these the principal one, the one who best knew the country, was Ben
Clark, a young man who had lived with the Cheyennes during much of his boyhood, and who not
only had a pretty good knowledge of the country, but also spoke fluently the Cheyenne and Arapahoe
dialects, and was an adept in the sign language.

The first day we made only about ten miles, which carried us to the south bank of Wolf Creek.
A considerable part of the day was devoted to straightening out matters in the command, and
allowing time for equalizing the wagon loads, which as a general thing, on a first day's march,
are unfairly distributed.  And then there was an abundance of fire-wood at Wolf Creek; indeed,
here and on Hackberry Creek--where I intended to make my next camp--was the only timber north
of the Canadian River; and to select the halting places near a plentiful supply of wood was
almost indispensable, for as the men were provided with only shelter-tents, good fires were
needed in order to keep warm.

The second day, after marching for hours through vast herds of buffalo, we made Hackberry Creek;
but not, however, without several stampedes in the wagon-train, the buffalo frightening the
mules so that it became necessary to throw out flankers to shoot the leading bulls and thus
turn off the herds.  In the wake of every drove invariably followed a band of wolves.  This
animal is a great coward usually, but hunger had made these so ravenous that they would come
boldly up to the column, and as quick as a buffalo was killed, or even disabled, they would
fall upon the carcass and eagerly devour it.  Antelope also were very numerous, and as they
were quite tame --being seldom chased--and naturally very inquisitive, it was not an unfrequent
thing to see one of the graceful little creatures run in among the men and be made a prisoner.
Such abundance of game relieved the monotony of the march to Hackberry Creek, but still, both
men and animals were considerably exhausted by their long tramp, for we made over thirty miles
that day.

We camped in excellent shape on the creek and it was well we did, for a "Norther," or "blizzard,"
as storms on the Plains are now termed struck us in the night.  During the continuance of these
blizzards, which is usually about three days, the cold wind sweeps over the Plains with great
force, and, in the latitude of the Indian Territory, is weighted with great quantities of sleet
and snow, through which it is often impossible to travel; indeed, these "Northers" have many
times proved fatal to the unprotected frontiersman.  With our numbers the chance of any one's
being lost, and perishing alone (one of the most common dangers in a blizzard), was avoided;
but under any circumstances such a storm could but occasion intense suffering to all exposed
to it, hence it would have been well to remain in camp till the gale was over, but the time
could not be spared.  We therefore resumed the march at an early hour next morning, with the
expectation of making the south bank of the main Canathan and there passing the night, as Clark
assured me that timber was plentiful on that side of the river.  The storm greatly impeded
us, however, many of the mules growing discouraged, and some giving out entirely, so we could
not get to Clark's "good camp," for with ten hours of utmost effort only about half a day's
distance could be covered, when at last, finding the struggle useless, we were forced to halt
for the night in a bleak bottom on the north bank of the river.  But no one could sleep, for
the wind swept over us with unobstructed fury, and the only fuel to be had was a few green
bushes.  As night fell a decided change of temperature added much to our misery, the mercury,
which had risen when the "Norther" began, again falling to zero.  It can be easily imagined
that under such circumstances the condition of the men was one of extreme discomfort; in truth,
they had to tramp up and down the camp all night long to keep from freezing.  Anything was
a relief to this state of things, so at the first streak of day we quit the dreadful place
and took up the march.

A seemingly good point for crossing the Canadian was found a couple of miles down the stream,
where we hoped to get our train over on the ice, but an experiment proving that it was not
strong enough, a ford had to be made, which was done by marching some of the cavalry through
the river, which was about half a mile wide, to break up the large floes when they had been
cut loose with axes.  After much hard work a passage-way was thus opened, and by noon the command
was crossed to the south bank, and after thawing out and drying our clothes before big fires,
we headed for a point on the Washita, where Clark said there was plenty of wood, and good water
too, to make us comfortable till the blizzard had blown over.

We reached the valley of the Washita a little before dark, and camped some five or six miles
above the scene of Custer's fight, where I concluded to remain at least a day, to rest the
command and give it a chance to refit.  In the mean time I visited the battle-field in company
with Custer and several other officers, to see if there was a possibility of discovering any
traces of Elliotts party.  On arriving at the site of the village, and learning from Custer
what dispositions had been made in approaching for the attack, the squadron of the escort was
deployed and pushed across the river at the point where Elliott had crossed.  Moving directly
to the south, we had not gone far before we struck his trail, and soon the whole story was
made plain by our finding, on an open level space about two miles from the destroyed village,
the dead and frozen bodies of the entire party.  The poor fellows were all lying within a circle
not more than fifteen or twenty paces in diameter, and the little piles of empty cartridge
shells near each body showed plainly that every man had made a brave fight.  None were scalped,
but most of them were otherwise horribly mutilated, which fiendish work is usually done by
the squaws.  All had been stripped of their clothing, but their comrades in the escort were
able to identify the bodies, which being done, we gave them decent burial.  Their fate was
one that has overtaken many of our gallant army in their efforts to protect the frontiersmen's
homes and families from savages who give no quarter, though they have often received it, and
where the possibility of defeat in action carries with it the certainty of death and often
of preceding torture.

From the meadow where Elliott was found we rode to the Washita, and then down the river through
the sites of the abandoned villages, that had been strung along almost continuously for about
twelve miles in the timber skirting the stream.  On every hand appeared ample evidence that
the Indians had intended to spend the winter here, for the ground was littered with jerked
meat, bales of buffalo robes, cooking utensils, and all sorts of plunder usually accumulated
in a permanent Indian camp.  There were, also, lying dead near the villages hundreds of ponies,
that had been shot to keep them from falling into our hands, the scant grazing and extreme
cold having made them too weak to be driven along in the flight.  The wholesale slaughter of
these ponies was a most cheering indication that our campaign would be ultimately successful,
and we all prayed for at least a couple of months more of cold weather and plenty of snow.

At the Kiowa village we found the body of a white woman--a Mrs. Blynn--and also that of her
child.  These captives had been taken by the Kiowas near Fort Lyon the previous summer, and
kept close prisoners until the stampede began, the poor woman being reserved to gratify the
brutal lust of the chief, Satanta; then, however, Indian vengeance demanded the murder of the
poor creatures, and after braining the little child against a tree, the mother was shot through
the forehead, the weapon, which no doubt brought her welcome release, having been fired so
close that the powder had horribly disfigured her face.  The two bodies were wrapped in blankets
and taken to camp, and afterward carried along in our march, till finally they were decently
interred at Fort Arbuckle..

At an early hour on December 12 the command pulled out from its cosy camp and pushed down the
valley of the Washita, following immediately on the Indian trail which led in the direction
of Fort Cobb, but before going far it was found that the many deep ravines and canyons on this
trail would delay our train very much, so we moved out of the valley and took the level prairie
on the divide.  Here the traveling was good, and a rapid gait was kept up till mid-day, when,
another storm of sleet and snow coming on, it became extremely difficult for the guides to
make out the proper course; and fearing that we might get lost or caught on the open plain
without wood or water--as we had been on the Canadian--I turned the command back to the valley,
resolved to try no more shortcuts involving the risk of a disaster to the expedition.  But
to get back was no slight task, for a dense fog just now enveloped us, obscuring all landmarks.
However, we were headed right when the fog set in, and we had the good luck to reach the valley
before night-fall, though there was a great deal of floundering about, and also much disputing
among the guides as to where the river would be found Fortunately we struck the stream right
at a large grove of timber, and established ourselves, admirably.  By dark the ground was covered
with twelve or fifteen inches of fresh snow, and as usual the temperature rose very sensibly
while the storm was on, but after night-fall the snow ceased and the skies cleared up.  Daylight
having brought zero weather again, our start on the morning of the 17th was painful work, many
of the men freezing their fingers while handling the horse equipments, harness, and tents.
However, we got off in fairly good season, and kept to the trail along the Washita notwithstanding
the frequent digging and bridging necessary to get the wagons over ravines.

Continuing on this line for three days, we at length came to a point on the Washita where all
signs indicated that we were nearing some of the villages.  Wishing to strike them as soon
as possible, we made a very early start next morning, the 17th.  A march of four or five miles
brought us to a difficult ravine, and while we were making preparations to get over, word was
brought that several Indians had appeared in our front bearing a white flag and making signs
that they had a communication to deliver.  We signaled back that they would be received, when
one of the party came forward alone and delivered a letter, which proved to be from General
Hazen, at Fort Cobb.  The letter showed that Hazen was carrying on negotiations with the Indians,
and stated that all the tribes between Fort Cobb and my column were friendly, but the intimation
was given that the Cheyennes and Arapahoes were still hostile, having moved off southward toward,
the Red River.  It was added that Satanta and Lone Wolf--the chiefs of the Kiowas--would give
information of the whereabouts of the hostiles; and such a communication coming direct from
the representative of the Indian Department, practically took the Kiowas--the village at hand
was of that tribe--under its protection, and also the Comanches, who were nearer in to Cobb.
Of course, under such circumstances I was compelled to give up the intended attack, though
I afterward regretted that I had paid any heed to the message, because Satanta and Lone Wolf
proved, by trickery and double dealing, that they had deceived Hazen into writing the letter.

When I informed the Klowas that I would respect Hazen's letter provided they all came into
Fort Cobb and gave themselves up, the two chiefs promised submission, and, as an evidence of
good faith, proposed to accompany the column to Fort Cobb with a large body of warriors, while
their villages moved to the same point by easy stages, along the opposite bank of the river--claiming
this to be necessary from the poor condition of the ponies.  I had some misgivings as to the
sincerity of Satanta and Lone Wolf, but as I wanted to get the Kiowas where their surrender
would be complete, so that the Cheyennes and Arapahoes could then be pursued, I agreed to the
proposition, and the column moved on.  All went well that day, but the next it was noticed
that the warriors were diminishing, and an investigation showed that a number of them had gone
off on various pretexts--the main one being to help along the women and children with the villages.
With this I suspected that they were playing me false, and my suspicions grew into certainty
when Satanta himself tried to make his escape by slipping beyond the flank of the column and
putting spurs to his pony.  Fortunately, several officers saw him, and quickly giving chase,
overhauled him within a few hundred yards.  I then arrested both him and Lone Wolf and held
them as hostages--a measure that had the effect of bringing back many of the warriors already
beyond our reach.

When we arrived at Fort Cobb we found some of the Comanches already there, and soon after the
rest of them, excepting one band, came in to the post.  The Kiowas, however, were not on hand,
and there were no signs to indicate their coming.  At the end of two days it was plain enough
that they were acting in bad faith, and would continue to unless strong pressure was brought
to bear.  Indeed, they had already started for the Witchita Mountains, so I put on the screws
at once by issuing an order to hang Satanta and Lone Wolf, if their people did not surrender
at Fort Cobb within forty-eight hours.  The two chiefs promised prompt compliance, but begged
for more time, seeking to explain the non-arrival of the women and children through the weak
condition of the ponies; but I was tired of their duplicity, and insisted on my ultimatum.

The order for the execution brought quick fruit.  Runners were sent out with messages, by the
two prisoners, appealing to their people to save the lives of their chiefs, and the result
was that the whole tribe came in to the post within the specified time.  The two manacled wretches
thus saved their necks; but it is to be regretted that the execution did not come off; for
some years afterward their devilish propensities led them into Texas, where both engaged in
the most horrible butcheries.

The Kiowas were now in our hands, and all the Comanches too, except one small band, which,
after the Custer fight, had fled toward the headwaters of the Red River.  This party was made
up of a lot of very bad Indians--outlaws from the main tribe--and we did not hope to subdue
them except by a fight, and of this they got their fill; for Evans, moving from Monument Creek
toward the western base of the Witchita Mountains on Christmas Day, had the good fortune to
strike their village.  In the snow and cold his approach was wholly unexpected, and he was
thus enabled to deal the band a blow that practically annihilated it.  Twenty-five warriors
were killed outright, most of the women and children captured, and all the property was destroyed.
Only a few of the party escaped, and some of these made their way in to Fort Cobb, to join
the rest of their tribe in confinement; while others, later in the season, surrendered at Fort
Bascom.

This sudden appearance of Evans in the Red River region also alarmed the Cheyennes and Arapahoes,
and their thoughts now began to turn to submission.  Food was growing scarce with them, too,
as there was but little game to be found either in the Witchita Mountains or on the edge of
the Staked Plains, and the march of Carr's column from Antelope Hills precluded their returning
to where the buffalo ranged. Then, too, many of their ponies were dead or dying, most of their
tepees and robes had been abandoned, and the women and children, having been kept constantly
on the move in the winter's storms, were complaining bitterly of their sufferings.

In view of this state of things they intimated, through their Comanche-Apache friends at Fort
Cobb, that they would like to make terms.  On receiving their messages I entered into negotiations
with Little Robe, chief of the Cheyennes, and Yellow Bear, chief of the Arapahoes, and despatched
envoys to have both tribes understand clearly that they must recognize their subjugation by
surrendering at once, and permanently settling on their reservations in the spring. Of course
the usual delays of Indian diplomacy ensued, and it was some weeks before I heard the result.

Then one of my messengers returned with word that Little Robe and Yellow Bear were on their
way to see me.  They arrived a few days later, and, promptly acceding to the terms, promised
to bring their people in, but as many of them would have to come on foot on account of the
condition of the ponies, more time was solicited.  Convinced of the sincerity of their professions
I gave them a reasonable extension, and eventually Yellow Bear made good his word, but Little
Robe, in spite of earnest and repeated efforts, was unable to deliver his people till further
operations were begun against them.

While these negotiations were in progess I came to the conclusion that a permanent military
post ought to be established well down on the Kiowa and Comanche reservation, in order to keep
an eye on these tribes in the future, Fort Cobb, being an unsuitable location, because too
far to the north to protect the Texas frontier, and too far away from where it was intended
to permanently place the Indians. With this purpose in view I had the country thoroughly explored,
and afterward a place was fixed upon not far from the base of the Witchita Mountains, and near
the confluence of Medicine Bluff and Cash creeks, where building stone and timber could be
obtained in plenty, and to this point I decided to move.  The place was named Camp Sill-now
Fort Sill--in honor of my classmate, General Sill, killed at Stone River; and to make sure
of the surrendered Indians, I required them all, Kiowas, Comanches, and Comanche-Apaches, to
accompany us to the new post, so they could be kept under military control till they were settled.

During the march to the new camp the weather was not so cold as that experienced in coming
down from Camp Supply; still, rains were frequent, and each was invariably followed by a depression
of temperature and high winds, very destructive to our animals, much weakened by lack of food.
The men fared pretty well, however, for on the rough march along the Washita, and during our
stay at Fort Cobb, they had learned to protect themselves materially from the cold.  For this
they had contrived many devices, the favorite means being dugouts--that is, pits dug in the
ground, and roofed over, with shelter-tents, and having at one end a fire-place and chimney
ingeniously constructed with sod.  In these they lived very snugly --four men in each--and
would often amuse themselves by poking their heads out and barking at the occupants of adjacent
huts in imitation of the prairie-dog, whose comfortable nests had probably suggested the idea
of dugouts.  The men were much better off, in fact, than many of the officers, for the high
winds frequently made havoc with our wall-tents.  The horses and mules suffered most of all.
They could not be sheltered, and having neither grain nor grass, the poor beasts were in no
condition to stand the chilling blasts.  Still, by cutting down cottonwood-trees, and letting
the animals browse on the small soft branches, we managed to keep them up till, finally even
this wretched food beginning to grow scarce, I had all except a few of the strongest sent to
Fort Arbuckle, near which place we had been able, fortunately, to purchase some fields of corn
from the half-civilized Chickasaws and Choctaws.

Through mismanagement, as previously noted, the greater part of the supplies which I had ordered
hauled to Arbuckle the preceding fall had not got farther on the way than Fort Gibson, which
post was about four hundred miles off, and the road abominable, particularly east of Arbuckle,
where it ran through a low region called "boggy bottom." All along this route were abandoned
wagons, left sticking in the mud, and hence the transportation was growing so short that I
began to fear trouble in getting subsistence up for the men.  Still, it would not do to withdraw,
so I made a trip to Arbuckle chiefly for the purpose of reorganizing the transportation, but
also with a view to opening a new route to that post, the road to lie on high ground, so as
to avoid the creeks and mud that had been giving us so much trouble.  If such a road could
be made, I hoped to get up enough rations and grain from the cornfields purchased to send out
a formidable expedition against the Cheyennes, so I set out for Arbuckle accompanied by my
quartermaster, Colonel A. J. McGonigle. "California Joe" also went along to guide us through
the scrub-oaks covering the ridge, but even the most thorough exploration failed to discover
any route more practicable than that already in use; indeed, the high ground was, if anything,
worse than the bottom land, our horses in the springy places and quicksands often miring to
their knees.  The ground was so soft and wet, in fact, that we had to make most of the way
on foot, so by the time we reached Arbuckle I was glad to abandon the new road project.

Finding near Arbuckle more fields of corn than those already purchased, I had them bought also,
and ordered more of the horses back there to be fed.  I next directed every available mule
to be put to hauling rations, having discovered that the full capacity of the transportation
had not yet been brought into play in forwarding stores from Gibson, and with this regulation
of the supply question I was ready to return immediately to Camp Sill.  But my departure was
delayed by California Joe, who, notwithstanding the prohibitory laws of the Territory, in some
unaccountable way had got gloriously tipsy, which caused a loss of time that disgusted me greatly;
but as we could not well do without Joe, I put off starting till the next day, by which time
it was thought he would sober up.  But I might just as well have gone at first, for at the
end of the twenty-four hours the incorrigible old rascal was still dead drunk.  How he had
managed to get the grog to keep up his spree was a mystery which we could not solve, though
we had had him closely watched, so I cut the matter short by packing him into my ambulance
and carrying him off to Camp Sill.

By the time I got back to Sill, the Arapahoes were all in at the post, or near at hand.  The
promised surrender of the Cheyennes was still uncertain of fulfillment, however, and although
Little Robe and his family had remained with us in evidence of good faith, the messages he
sent to his followers brought no assurance of the tribe's coming in--the runners invariably
returning with requests for more time, and bringing the same old excuse of inability to move
because the ponies were so badly off.  But more time was just what I was determined not to
grant, for I felt sure that if a surrender was not forced before the spring grass came, the
ponies would regain their strength, and then it would be doubtful if the Cheyennes came in at all.

To put an end to these delays, Custer proposed to go out and see the Cheyennes himself, taking
with him for escort only such number of men as could be fairly well mounted from the few horses
not sent back to Arbuckle.  At first I was inclined to disapprove Custer's proposition, but
he urged it so strongly that I finally consented, though with some misgivings, for I feared
that so small a party might tempt the Cheyennes to forget their pacific professions and seek
to avenge the destruction of Black Kettle's band.  However, after obtaining my approval, Custer,
with characteristic energy, made his preparations, and started with three or four officers
and forty picked men, taking along as negotiators Yellow Bear and Little Robe, who were also
to conduct him to the head-waters of the Red River, where it was supposed the Cheyennes would
be found.  His progress was reported by couriers every few days, and by the time he got to
the Witchita foot-hills he had grown so sanguine that he sent California Joe back to me with
word that he was certain of success.  Such hopeful anticipation relieved me greatly, of course,
but just about the time I expected to hear that his mission had been achieved I was astonished
by the party's return.  Inquiring as to the trouble, I learned that out toward the Staked Plains
every sign of the Cheyennes had disappeared.  Surprised and disappointed at this, and discouraged
by the loneliness of his situation--for in the whole region not a trace of animal life was
visible, Custer gave up the search, and none too soon, I am inclined to believe, to save his
small party from perishing.

This failure put a stop to all expeditions till the latter part of February, by which time
I had managed to lay in enough rations to feed the command for about thirty days; and the horses
back at Arbuckle having picked up sufficiently for field service they were ordered to Sill,
and this time I decided to send Custer out with his own and the Kansas regiment, with directions
to insist on the immediate surrender of the Cheyennes, or give them a sound thrashing. He was
ordered to get everything ready by March 1, and then move to the mouth of Salt Creek, on the
North Fork of the Red River, at which place I proposed to establish a new depot for feeding
the command. Trains could reach this point from Camp Supply more readily than from Arbuckle,
and wishing to arrange this part of the programme in person, I decided to return at once to
Supply, and afterward rejoin Custer at Salt Creek, on what, I felt sure, was to be the final
expedition of the campaign.  I made the three hundred and sixty miles from Sill to Supply in
seven days, but much to my surprise there found a despatch from General Grant directing me
to repair immediately to Washington.  These orders precluded, of course, my rejoining the command;
but at the appointed time it set out on the march, and within three weeks brought the campaign
to a successful close.

In this last expedition, for the first few days Custer's route was by the same trail he had
taken in January--that is to say, along the southern base of the Witchita Mountains--but this
time there was more to encourage him than before, for, on getting a couple of marches beyond
old Camp Radziminski, on all sides were fresh evidences of Indians, and every effort was bent
to strike them.

From day to day the signs grew hotter, and toward the latter part of March the game was found.
The Indians being in a very forlorn condition, Custer might have destroyed most of the tribe,
and certainly all their villages, but in order to save two white women whom, it was discovered,
they held as captives, he contented himself with the renewal of the Cheyennes' agreement to
come in to Camp Supply.  In due time the entire tribe fulfilled its promise except one small
band under "Tall Bull," but this party received a good drubbing from General Carr on the Republican
early in May.  After this fight all the Indians of the southern Plains settled down on their
reservations, and I doubt whether the peace would ever again have been broken had they not
in after years been driven to hostilities by most unjust treatment.

It was the 2d of March that I received at Camp Supply Grant's despatch directing me to report
immediately in Washington.  It had been my intention, as I have said, to join Custer on the
North Fork of the Red River, but this new order required me to recast my plans, so, after arranging
to keep the expedition supplied till the end of the campaign, I started for Washington, accompanied
by three of my staff--Colonels McGonigle and Crosby, and Surgeon Asch, and Mr. Deb. Randolph
Keim, a representative of the press, who went through the whole campaign, and in 1870 published
a graphic history of it.  The day we left Supply we, had another dose of sleet and snow, but
nevertheless we made good time, and by night-fall reached Bluff Creek.  In twenty-four hours
more we made Fort Dodge, and on the 6th of March arrived at Fort Hays.  Just south of the Smoky
Hill River, a little before we got to the post, a courier heading for Fort Dodge passed us
at a rapid gait.  Suspecting that he had despatches for me, I directed my outrider to overtake
him and find out.  The courier soon turned back, and riding up to my ambulance handed me a
telegram notifying me that General Grant, on the day of his inauguration, March 4, 1869, had
appointed me Lieutenant-General of the Army.  When I reported in Washington, the President
desired me to return to New Orleans and resume command of the Fifth Military District, but
this was not at all to my liking, so I begged off, and was assigned to take charge of the Division
of the Missouri, succeeding General Sherman, who had just been ordered to assume command of
the Army.

CHAPTER XV.

INSPECTING MILITARY POSTS IN UTAH AND MONTANA--DESIRE TO WITNESS THE FRANCO-GERMAN WAR--ON
A SAND-BAR IN THE MISSOURI--A BEAR HUNT--AN INDIAN SCARE--MYRIADS OF MOSQUITOES--PERMISSION
GIVEN TO VISIT EUROPE--CALLING ON PRESIDENT GRANT--SAILING FOR LIVERPOOL--ARRIVAL IN BERLIN.

After I had for a year been commanding the Division of the Missouri, which embraced the entire
Rocky Mountain region, I found it necessary to make an inspection of the military posts in
northern Utah and Montana, in order by personal observation to inform myself of their location
and needs, and at the same time become acquainted with the salient geographical and topographical
features of that section of my division.  Therefore in May, 1870, I started west by the Union-Pacific
railroad, and on arriving at Corinne' Station, the next beyond Ogden, took passage by stage-coach
for Helena, the capital of Montana Territory.  Helena is nearly five hundred miles north of
Corinne, and under ordinary conditions the journey was, in those days, a most tiresome one.
As the stage kept jogging on day and night, there was little chance for sleep, and there being
with me a sufficient number of staff-officers to justify the proceeding, we chartered the "outfit,"
stipulating that we were to stop over one night on the road to get some rest.  This rendered
the journey more tolerable, and we arrived at Helena without extraordinary fatigue.

Before I left Chicago the newspapers were filled with rumors of impending war between Germany
and France.  I was anxious to observe the conflict, if it was to occur, but reports made one
day concerning the beginning of hostilities would be contradicted the next, and it was not
till I reached Helena that the despatches lost their doubtful character, and later became of
so positive a nature as to make it certain that the two nations would fight.  I therefore decided
to cut short my tour of inspection, so that I could go abroad to witness the war, if the President
would approve.  This resolution limited my stay in Helena to a couple of days, which were devoted
to arranging for an exploration of what are now known as the Upper and the Lower Geyser Basins
of the Yellowstone Park.  While journeying between Corinne and Helena I had gained some vague
knowledge of these geysers from an old mountaineer named Atkinson, but his information was
very indefinite, mostly second-hand; and there was such general uncertainty as to the character
of this wonderland that I authorized an escort of soldiers to go that season from Fort Ellis
with a small party, to make such superficial explorations as to justify my sending an engineer
officer with a well-equipped expedition there next summer to scientifically examine and report
upon the strange country.  When the arrangements for this preliminary expedition were completed
I started for Fort Benton, the head of navigation on the Missouri River, on the way passing
through Fort Shaw, on Sun River.  I expected to take at Benton a steamboat to Fort Stevenson,
a military post which had been established about eighty miles south of Fort Buford, near a
settlement of friendly Mandan and Arickaree Indians, to protect them from the hostile Sioux.
From there I was to make my way overland, first to Fort Totten near Devil's lake in Dakota,
and thence by way of Fort Abercrombie to Saint Cloud, Minnesota, the terminus of the railroad.

Luckily I met with no delay in getting a boat at Benton, and though the water was extremely
low, we steamed down the channel of the Missouri with but slight detention till we got within
fifty miles of Fort Buford.  Here we struck on a sandbar with such force of steam and current
as to land us almost out of the water from stem to midships.  This bad luck was tantalizing,
for to land on a bar when your boat is under full headway down-stream in the Missouri River
is no trifling matter, especially if you want to make time, for the rapid and turbid stream
quickly depositing sand under the hull, makes it commonly a task of several days to get your
boat off again.  As from our mishap the loss of much time was inevitable, I sent a messenger
to Fort Buford for a small escort, and for horses to take my party in to the post.  Colonel
Morrow, the commandant, came himself to meet us, bringing a strong party of soldiers and some
friendly Indian scouts, because, he said, there were then in the region around Buford so many
treacherous band of Sioux as to make things exceedingly unsafe.

Desiring to reach the post without spending more than one night on the way, we abandoned our
steamer that evening, and set off at an early hour the next morning.  We made camp at the end
of the day's march within ten miles of Buford, and arrived at the post without having had any
incident of moment, unless we may dignify as one a battle with three grizzly bears, discovered
by our friendly Indians the morning of our second day's journey.  While eating our breakfast
--a rather slim one, by the way--spread on a piece of canvas, the Indians, whose bivouac was
some distance off, began shouting excitedly, "Bear! bear!" and started us all up in time to
see, out on the plain some hundreds of yards away, an enormous grizzly and two almost full-grown
cubs.  Chances like this for a bear hunt seldom offered, so there was hurried mounting--the
horses being already saddled--and a quick advance made on the game from many directions, Lieutenant
Townsend, of the escort, and five or six of the Indians going with me.  Alarmed by the commotion,
bruin and her cubs turned about, and with an awkward yet rapid gait headed for a deep ravine,
in which there was brushwood shelter.

My party rode directly across the prairie and struck the trail not far behind the game.  Then
for a mile or more the chase was kept up, but with such poor shooting because of the "buck
fever" which had seized most of us, that we failed to bring down any of the grizzlies, though
the cubs grew so tired that the mother was often obliged to halt for their defense, meanwhile
urging them on before her.  When the ravine was gained she hid the cubs away in the thick brushwood,
and then coming out where we could plainly see her, stood on the defense just within the edge
of the thicket, beyond the range of our rifles though, unless we went down into the canyon,
which we would have to do on foot, since the precipitous wall precluded going on horseback.
For an adventure like this I confess I had little inclination, and on holding a council of
war, I found that the Indians had still less, but Lieutenant Townsend, who was a fine shot,
and had refrained from firing hitherto in the hope that I might bag the game, relieved the
embarrassing situation and saved the credit of the party by going down alone to attack the
enemy.  Meanwhile I magnanimously held his horse, and the Sioux braves did a deal of shouting,
which they seemed to think of great assistance.

Townsend, having descended to the bottom of the ravine, approached within range, when the old
bear struck out, dashing into and out of the bushes so rapidly, however, that he could not
get fair aim at her, but the startled cubs running into full view, he killed one at the first
shot and at the second wounded the other.  This terribly enraged the mother, and she now came
boldly out to fight, exposing herself in the open ground so much as to permit a shot, that
brought her down too, with a broken shoulder.  Then the Indians and I, growing very brave,
scrambled down to--take part in the fight.  It was left for me to despatch the wounded cub
and mother, and having recovered possession of my nerves, I did the work effectively, and we
carried off with us the skins of the three animals as trophies of the hunt and evidence of
our prowess.

As good luck would have it, when we reached Buford we found a steamboat there unloading stores,
and learned that it would be ready to start down the river the next day.  Embarking on her,
we got to Stevenson in a few hours, and finding at the post camp equipage that had been made
ready for our use in crossing overland to Fort Totten, we set out the following forenoon, taking
with us a small escort of infantry, transported in two light wagons, a couple of Mandans and
the post interpreter going along as mounted guides.

To reach water we had to march the first day to a small lake forty miles off, and the oppressive
heat, together with the long distance traveled, used up one of the teams so much that, when
about to start out the second morning, we found the animals unable to go on with any prospect
of finishing the trip, so I ordered them to be rested forty-eight hours longer, and then taken
back to Stevenson.  This diminished the escort by one-half, yet by keeping the Indians and
interpreter on the lookout, and seeing that our ambulance was kept closed up on the wagon carrying
the rest of the detachment, we could, I thought, stand off any ordinary party of hostile Indians.

About noon I observed that the scouts in advance had left the trail and begun to reconnoitre
a low ridge to their right, the sequel of which was that in a few minutes they returned to
the wagons on a dead run and reported Sioux just ahead.  Looking in the direction indicated,
I could dimly see five or six horsemen riding in a circle, as Indians do when giving warning
to their camp, but as our halt disclosed that we were aware of their proximity, they darted
back again behind the crest of the ridge.  Anticipating from this move an immediate attack,
we hastily prepared for it by unhooking the mules from the wagon and ambulance, so that we
could use the vehicles as a barricade.  This done, I told the interpreter to take the Mandan
scouts and go over toward the ridge and reconnoitre again.  As the scouts neared the crest
two of them dismounted, and, crawling slowly on their bellies to the summit, took a hasty look
and returned at once to their horses, coming back with word that in the valley beyond was a
camp of at least a hundred Sioux lodges, and that the Indians were hurriedly getting ready
to attack us.  The news was anything but cheering, for with a village of that size the warriors
would number two or three hundred, and could assail us from every side.

Still, nothing could be done, but stand and take what was to come, for there was no chance
of escape--it being supreme folly to undertake in wagons a race with Indians to Fort Stevenson,
sixty miles away.  To make the best of the situation, we unloaded the baggage, distributing
and adjusting the trunks, rolls of bedding, crackerboxes, and everything else that would stop
a bullet, in such manner as to form a square barricade, two sides of which were the wagons,
with the mules haltered to the wheels.  Every man then supplied himself with all the ammunition
he could carry, and the Mandan scouts setting up the depressing wail of the Indian death-song,
we all awaited the attack with the courage of despair.

But no attack came; and time slipping by, and we still unmolested, the interpreter and scouts
were sent out to make another reconnoissance.  Going through just such precautions as before
in approaching the ridge, their slow progress kept us in painful suspense; but when they got
to the crest the strain on our nerves was relieved by seeing them first stand up boldly at
full height, and then descend beyond.  Quickly returning, they brought welcome word that the
whole thing was a mistake, and no Sioux were there at all. What had been taken for a hundred
Indian lodges turned out to be the camp of a Government train on its way to Fort Stevenson,
and the officer in charge seeing the scouts before they discovered him, and believing them
to be Sioux, had sent out to bring his herds in.  It would be hard to exaggerate the relief
that this discovery gave us, and we all breathed much easier.  The scare was a bad one, and
I have no hesitation in saying that, had we been mounted, it is more than likely that, instead
of showing fight, we would have taken up a lively pace for Fort Stevenson.

After reciprocal explanations with the officer in charge of the train, the march was resumed,
and at the close of that day we camped near a small lake about twenty miles from Fort Totten.
From Totten we journeyed on to Fort Abercrombie.  The country between the two posts is low
and flat, and I verily believe was then the favorite abiding-place of the mosquito, no matter
where he most loves to dwell now; for myriads of the pests rose up out of the tall rank grass
--more than I ever saw before or since--and viciously attacked both men and animals.  We ourselves
were somewhat protected by gloves and head-nets, provided us before leaving Totten, but notwithstanding
these our sufferings were well-nigh intolerable; the annoyance that the poor mules experienced
must, therefore, have been extreme; indeed, they were so terribly stung that the blood fairly
trickled down their sides. Unluckily, we had to camp for one night in this region; but we partly
evaded the ravenous things by banking up our tent walls with earth, and then, before turning
in, sweeping and smoking out such as had got inside.  Yet with all this there seemed hundreds
left to sing and sting throughout the night.  The mules being without protection, we tried
hard to save them from the vicious insects by creating a dense smoke from a circle of smothered
fires, within which chain the grateful brutes gladly stood; but this relief was only partial,
so the moment there was light enough to enable us to hook up we pulled out for Abercrombie
in hot haste.

From Abercrombie we drove on to Saint Cloud, the terminus of the railroad, where, considerably
the worse for our hurried trip and truly wretched experience with the mosquitoes, we boarded
the welcome cars.  Two days later we arrived in Chicago, and having meanwhile received word
from General Sherman that there would be no objection to my going to Europe, I began making
arrangements to leave, securing passage by the steamship Scotia.

President Grant invited me to come to see him at Long Branch before I should sail, and during
my brief visit there he asked which army I wished to accompany, the German or the French. 
I told him the German, for the reason that I thought more could be seen with the successful
side, and that the indications pointed to the defeat of the French.  My choice evidently pleased
him greatly, as he had the utmost contempt for Louis Napoleon, and had always denounced him
as a usurper and a charlatan.  Before we separated, the President gave me the following letter
to the representatives of our Government abroad, and with it I not only had no trouble in obtaining
permission to go with the Germans, but was specially favored by being invited to accompany
the headquarters of the King of Prussia:

"LONG BRANCH, N. J., July 25, 1870.

"Lieutenant-General P. H. Sheridan, of the United State Army, is authorized to visit Europe,
to return at his own pleasure, unless otherwise ordered.  He is commended to the good offices
of all representatives of this Government whom he may meet abroad.

"To citizens and representatives of other Governments I introduce General Sheridan as one of
the most skillful, brave and deserving soldiers developed by the great struggle through which
the United States Government has just passed.  Attention paid him will be duly appreciated
by the country he has served so faithfully and efficiently.

"U. S. GRANT."

Word of my intended trip was cabled to Europe in the ordinary press despatches, and our Minister
to France, Mr. Elihu B. Washburn, being an intimate friend of mine, and thinking that I might
wish to attach myself to the French army, did me the favor to take preliminary steps for securing
the necessary authority.  He went so far as to broach the subject to the French Minister of
War, but in view of the informality of the request, and an unmistakable unwillingness to grant
it being manifested, Mr. Washburn pursued the matter no further.  I did not learn of this kindly
interest in my behalf till after the capitulation of Paris, when Mr. Washburn told me what
he had done of his own motion.  Of course I thanked him gratefully, but even had he succeeded
in getting the permission he sought I should not have accompanied the French army.

I sailed from New York July 27, one of my aides-de-camp, General James W. Forsyth, going with
me.  We reached Liverpool August 6, and the next day visited the American Legation in London,
where we saw all the officials except our Minister, Mr. Motley, who, being absent, was represented
by Mr. Moran, the Secretary of the Legation.  We left London August 9 for Brussels, where we
were kindly cared for by the American Minister, Mr. Russell Jones who the same evening saw
us off for Germany.  Because of the war we secured transportation only as far as Vera, and
here we received information that the Prussian Minister of War had telegraphed to the Military
Inspector of Railroads to take charge of us on our arrival a Cologne, and send us down to the
headquarter of the Prussian army, but the Inspector, for some unexplained reason, instead of
doing this, sent us on to Berlin. Here our Minister, Mr. George Bancroft, met us with a telegram
from the German Chancellor, Count Bismarck, saying we were expected to come direct to the King's
headquarters and we learned also that a despatch had been sent to the Prussian Minister at
Brussels directing him to forward us from Cologne to the army, instead of allowing us to go
on to Berlin, but that we had reached and quit Brussels without the Minister's knowledge.

CHAPTER XVI.

LEAVING FOR THE SEAT OF WAR--MEETING WITH PRINCE BISMARCK--HIS INTEREST IN PUBLIC OPINION IN
AMERICA--HIS INCLINATIONS IN EARLY LIFE--PRESENTED TO THE KING--THE BATTLE OF GRAVELOTTE--THE
GERMAN PLAN--ITS FINAL SUCCESS--SENDING NEWS OF THE VICTORY--MISTAKEN FOR A FRENCHMAN.

Shortly after we arrived in Berlin the Queen sent a messenger offering us an opportunity to
pay our respects, and fixed an hour for the visit, which was to take place the next day; but
as the tenor of the despatch Mr. Bancroft had received from Count Bismarck indicated that some
important event which it was desired I should witness was about to happen at the theatre of
war, our Minister got us excused from our visit of ceremony, and we started for the headquarters
of the German army that evening--our stay in the Prussian capital having been somewhat less
than a day.

Our train was a very long one, of over eighty cars, and though drawn by three locomotives,
its progress to Cologne was very slow and the journey most tedious.  From Cologne we continued
on by rail up the valley of the Rhine to Bingebruck, near Bingen, and thence across through
Saarbrucken to Remilly, where we left the railway and rode in a hay-wagon to Pont-a-Mousson,
arriving there August 17, late in the afternoon.  This little city had been ceded to France
at the Peace of Westphalia, and although originally German, the people had become, in the lapse
of so many years, intensely French in sentiment.  The town was so full of officers and men
belonging to the German army that it was difficult to get lodgings, but after some delay we
found quite comfortable quarters at one of the small hotels, and presently, after we had succeeded
in getting a slender meal, I sent my card to Count von Bismarck, the Chancellor of the North
German Confederation, who soon responded by appointing an hour--about 9 o'clock the same evening--for
an interview.

When the Count received me he was clothed in the undress uniform of the Cuirassier regiment,
of which he was the colonel.  During the interview which ensued, he exhibited at times deep
anxiety regarding the conflict now imminent, for it was the night before the battle of Gravelotte,
but his conversation was mostly devoted to the state of public sentiment in America, about
which he seemed much concerned, inquiring repeatedly as to which side--France or Prussia--was
charged with bringing on the war.  Expressing a desire to witness the battle which was expected
to occur the next day, and remarking that I had not had sufficient time to provide the necessary
transportation, he told me to be ready at 4 o'clock in the morning, and he would take me out
in his own carriage and present me to the King--adding that he would ask one of his own staff-officers,
who he knew had one or two extra horses, to lend me one.  As I did not know just what my status
would be, and having explained to the President before leaving America that I wished to accompany
the German army unofficially, I hardly knew whether to appear in uniform or not, so I spoke
of this matter too, and the Count, after some reflection, thought it best for me to wear my
undress uniform, minus the sword, however, because I was a non combatant.

At 4 o'clock the next morning, the 18th, I repaired to the Chancellor's quarters.  The carriage
was at the door, also the saddle-horse, but as no spare mount could be procured for General
Forsyth, he had to seek other means to reach the battle-field.  The carriage was an open one
with two double seats, and in front a single one for a messenger; it had also a hand-brake
attached.

Count Bismarck and I occupied the rear seat, and Count Bismarck-Bohlen--the nephew and aide-decamp
to the Chancellor--and Doctor Busch were seated facing us.  The conveyance was strong, serviceable,
and comfortable, but not specially prepossessing, and hitched to it were four stout horses--logy,
ungainly animals, whose clumsy harness indicated that the whole equipment was meant for heavy
work.  Two postilions in uniform, in high military saddles on the nigh horse of each span,
completed the establishment.

All being ready, we took one of the roads from Pont-a-Mousson to Rezonville, which is on the
direct road from Metz to Chalons, and near the central point of the field where, on the 16th
of August, the battle of Mars-la-Tour had been fought.  It was by this road that the Pomeranians,
numbering about 30,000 men, had been ordered to march to Gravelotte, and after proceeding a
short distance we overtook the column.  As this contingent came from Count Bismarck's own section
of Germany, there greeted us as we passed along, first in the dim light of the morning, and
later in the glow of the rising sun, continuous and most enthusiastic cheering for the German
Chancellor.

On the way Count Bismarck again recurred to the state of public opinion in America with reference
to the war.  He also talked much about our form of government, and said that in early life
his tendencies were all toward republicanism, but that family influence had overcome his preferences,
and intimated that, after adopting a political career, he found that Germany was not sufficiently
advanced for republicanism.  He said, further, that he had been reluctant to enter upon this
public career, that he had always longed to be a soldier, but that here again family opposition
had turned him from the field of his choice into the sphere of diplomacy.

Not far from Mars-la-Tour we alighted, and in a little while an aide-de-camp was introduced,
who informed me that he was there to conduct and present me to his Majesty, the King of Prussia.
As we were walking along together, I inquired whether at the meeting I should remove my cap,
and he said no; that in an out-of-door presentation it was not etiquette to uncover if in uniform.
We were soon in presence of the King, where--under the shade of a clump of second-growth poplar-trees,
with which nearly all the farms in the north of France are here and there dotted--the presentation
was made in the simplest and most agreeable manner.

His Majesty, taking my hand in both of his, gave me a thorough welcome, expressing, like Count
Bismarck, though through an interpreter, much interest as to the sentiment in my own country
about the war.  At this time William the First of Prussia was seventy-three years of age, and,
dressed in the uniform of the Guards, he seemed to be the very ideal soldier, and graced with
most gentle and courteous manners.  The conversation, which was brief, as neither of us spoke
the other's native tongue, concluded by his Majesty's requesting me in the most cordial way
to accompany his headquarters during the campaign.  Thanking him for his kindness, I rejoined
Count Bismarck's party, and our horses having arrived meantime, we mounted and moved off to
the position selected for the King to witness the opening of the battle.

This place was on some high ground overlooking the villages of Rezonville and Gravelotte, about
the centre of the battlefield of Mars-la-Tour, and from it most of the country to the east
toward Metz could also be seen.  The point chosen was an excellent one for the purpose, though
in one respect disagreeable, since the dead bodies of many of the poor fellows killed there
two days before were yet unburied.  In a little while the King's escort began to remove these
dead, however, bearing them away on stretchers improvised with their rifles, and the spot thus
cleared was much more acceptable.  Then, when such unexploded shells as were lying around loose
had been cautiously carried away, the King, his brother, Prince Frederick Charles Alexander,
the chief-of-staff, General von Moltke, the Minister of War, General von Roon, and Count von
Bismarck assembled on the highest point, and I being asked to join the group, was there presented
to General von Moltke.  He spoke our language fluently, and Bismarck having left the party
for a time to go to a neighboring house to see his son, who had been wounded at Mars-la-Tour,
and about whom he was naturally very anxious, General von Moltke entertained me by explaining
the positions of the different corps, the nature and object of their movements then taking
place, and so on.

Before us, and covering Metz, lay the French army, posted on the crest of a ridge extending
north, and about its centre curving slightly westward toward the German forces.  The left of
the French position was but a short distance from the Moselle, and this part of the line was
separated from the Germans by a ravine, the slopes, fairly well wooded, rising quite sharply;
farther north, near the centre, this depression disappeared, merged in the general swell of
the ground, and thence on toward the right the ground over which an approach to the French
line must be made was essentially a natural open glacis, that could be thoroughly swept by
the fire of the defenders.

The line extended some seven or eight miles.  To attack this position, formidable everywhere,
except perhaps on the right flank, the Germans were bringing up the combined forces of the
First and Second armies, troops that within the past fortnight had already successfully met
the French in three pitched battles.  On the right was the First Army, under command of General
Von Steinmetz, the victors, August 6, of Spicheren, near Saar, and, eight days later, of Colombey,
to the east of Metz; while the centre and left were composed of the several corps of the Second
Army, commanded by Prince Frederick Charles of Prussia, a part of whose troops had just been
engaged in the sanguinary battle of Mars-la-Tour, by which Bazaine was cut off from the Verdun
road, and forced back toward Metz.

At first the German plan was simply to threaten with their right, while the corps of the Second
Army advanced toward the north, to prevent the French, of whose intentions there was much doubt,
from escaping toward Chalons; then, as the purposes of the French might be, developed, these
corps were to change direction toward the enemy successively, and seek to turn his right flank.
But the location of this vital turning-point was very uncertain, and until it was ascertained
and carried, late in the afternoon, the action raged with more or less intensity along the
entire line.

But as it is not my purpose to describe in detail the battle of Gravelotte, nor any other,
I will speak of some of its incidents merely.  About noon, after many preliminary skirmishes,
the action was begun according to the plan I have already outlined, the Germans advancing their
left while holding on strongly with their right, and it was this wing (the First Army) that
came under my observation from the place where the King's headquarters were located.  From
here we could see, as I have said, the village of Gravelotte.  Before it lay the German troops,
concealed to some extent, especially to the left, by clumps of timber here and there.  Immediately
in front of us, however, the ground was open, and the day being clear and sunny, with a fresh
breeze blowing (else the smoke from a battle between four hundred thousand men would have obstructed
the view altogether), the spectacle presented Was of unsurpassed magnificence and sublimity.
The German artillery opened the battle, and while the air was filled with shot and shell from
hundreds of guns along their entire line, the German centre and left, in rather open order,
moved out to the attack, and as they went forward the reserves, in close column, took up positions
within supporting distances, yet far enough back to be out of range.

The French artillery and mitrailleuses responded vigorously to the Krupps, and with deadly
effect, but as far as we could see the German left continued its advance, and staff-officers
came up frequently to report that all was going on well at points hidden from our view These
reports were always made to the King first, and whenever anybody arrived with tidings of the
fight we clustered around to hear the news, General Von Moltke unfolding a map meanwhile, and
explaining the situation.  This done, the chief of the staff, while awaiting the next report,
would either return to a seat that had been made for him with some knapsacks, or would occupy
the time walking about, kicking clods of dirt or small stones here and there, his hands clasped
behind his back, his face pale and thoughtful.  He was then nearly seventy years old, but because
of his emaciated figure, the deep wrinkles in his face, and the crow's-feet about his eyes,
he looked even older, his appearance being suggestive of the practice of church asceticisms
rather than of his well-known ardent devotion to the military profession.

By the middle of the afternoon the steady progress of the German left and centre had driven
the French from their more advanced positions from behind stone walls and hedges, through valleys
and hamlets, in the direction of Metz, but as yet the German right had accomplished little
except to get possession of the village of Gravelotte, forcing the French across the deep ravine
I have mentioned, which runs north and south a little distance east of ihe town.

But it was now time for the German right to move in earnest to carry the Rozerieulles ridge,
on which crest the French had evidently decided to make an obstinate fight to cover their withdrawal
to Metz. As the Germans moved to the attack here, the French fire became heavy and destructive,
so much so, indeed, as to cause General Von Steinmetz to order some cavalry belonging to the
right wing to make a charge.  Crossing the ravine before described, this body of horse swept
up the slope beyond, the front ranks urged forward by the momentum from behind.  The French
were posted along a sunken road, behind stone walls and houses, and as the German cavalry neared
these obstructions it received a dreadful fire without the least chance of returning it, though
still pushed on till the front ranks were crowded into the deep cut of the road.  Here the
slaughter was terrible, for the horsemen could make no further headway; and because of the
blockade behind, of dead and wounded men and animals, an orderly retreat was impossible, and
disaster inevitable.

About the time the charge was ordered, the phase of the battle was such that the King concluded
to move his headquarters into the village of Gravelotte; and just after getting there, we first
learned fully of the disastrous result of the charge which had been entered upon with such
spirit; and so much indignation was expressed against Steinmetz, who, it was claimed, had made
an unnecessary sacrifice of his cavalry, that I thought he would be relieved on the spot; though
this was not done.

Followed by a large staff, General Steinmetz appeared in the village presently, and approached
the King.  When near, he bowed with great respect, and I then saw that he was a very old man
though his soldierly figure, bronzed face, and shortcropped hair gave some evidence of vigor
still.  When the King spoke to him I was not close enough to learn what was said; but his Majesty's
manner was expressive of kindly feeling, and the fact that in a few moments the veteran general
returned to the command of his troops, indicated that, for the present at least, his fault
had been overlooked.

The King then moved out of the village, and just a little to the east and north of it the headquarters
were located on high, open ground, whence we could observe the right of the German infantry
advancing up the eastern face of the ravine.  The advance, though slow and irregular, resulted
in gradually gaining ground, the French resisting stoutly with a stubborn musketry fire all
along the slopes.  Their artillery was silent, however; and from this fact the German artillery
officers grew jubilant, confidently asserting that their Krupp guns had dismounted the French
batteries and knocked their mitrailleuses to pieces.  I did not indulge in this confidence,
however; for, with the excellent field-glass I had, I could distinctly see long columns of
French troops moving to their right, for the apparent purpose of making a vigorous fight on
that flank; and I thought it more than likely that their artillery would be heard from before
the Germans could gain the coveted ridge.

The Germans labored up the glacis slowly at the most exposed places; now crawling on their
bellies, now creeping on hands and knees, but, in the main, moving with erect and steady bearing.
As they approached within short range, they suddenly found that the French artillery and mitrallleuses
had by no means been silenced--about two hundred pieces opening on them with fearful effect,
while at the same time the whole crest blazed with a deadly fire from the Chassepot rifles.
Resistance like this was so unexpected by the Germans that it dismayed them; and first wavering
a moment, then becoming panic-stricken, they broke and fled, infantry, cavalry, and artillery
coming down the slope without any pretence of formation, the French hotly following and pouring
in a heavy and constant fire as the fugitives fled back across the ravine toward Gravelotte.
With this the battle on the right had now assumed a most serious aspect, and the indications
were that the French would attack the heights of Gravelotte; but the Pomeranian corps coming
on the field at this crisis, was led into action by Von Moltke, himself, and shortly after
the day was decided in favor of the Germans.

When the French guns opened fire, it was discovered that the King's position was within easy
range, many of the shells falling near enough to make the place extremely uncomfortable; so
it was suggested that he go to a less exposed point.  At first he refused to listen to this
wise counsel, but yielded finally--leaving the ground with reluctance, however--and went back
toward Rezonville.  I waited for Count Bismarck, who did not go immediately with the King,
but remained at Gravelotte, looking after some of the escort who had been wounded.  When he
had arranged for their care, we set out to rejoin the King, and before going far, overtook
his Majesty, who had stopped on the Chalons road, and was surrounded by a throng of fugitives,
whom he was berating in German so energetic as to remind me forcibly of the "Dutch" swearing
that I used to hear in my boyhood in Ohio. The dressing down finished to his satisfaction,
the King resumed his course toward Re'zonville, halting, however, to rebuke in the same emphatic
style every group of runaways he overtook.

Passing through Rezonville, we halted just beyond the village; there a fire was built, and
the King, his brother, Prince Frederick Charles, and Von Roon were provided with rather uncomfortable
seats about it, made by resting the ends of a short ladder on a couple of boxes.  With much
anxiety and not a little depression of spirits news from the battle-field was now awaited,
but the suspense did not last long, for presently came the cheering intelligence that the French
were retiring, being forced back by the Pomeranian corps, and some of the lately broken right
wing organizations, that had been rallied on the heights of Gravelotte.  The lost ground being
thus regained, and the French having been beaten on their right, it was not long before word
came that Bazaine's army was falling back to Metz, leaving the entire battle-field in possession
of the Germans.

During the excitement of the day I had not much felt the want of either food or water, but
now that all was over I was nearly exhausted, having had neither since early morning.  Indeed,
all of the party were in like straits; the immense armies had not only eaten up nearly everything
in the country, but had drunk all the wells dry, too, and there seemed no relief for us till,
luckily, a squad of soldiers came along the road with a small cask of wine in a cart. One of
the staff-officers instantly appropriated the keg, and proceeded to share his prize most generously.
Never had I tasted anything so refreshing and delicious, but as the wine was the ordinary sour
stuff drunk by the peasantry of northern France, my appreciation must be ascribed to my famished
condition rather than to any virtues of the beverage itself.

After I had thus quenched my thirst the King's, brother called me aside, and drawing from his
coat-tail pocket a piece of stale black bread, divided it with me, and while munching on this
the Prince began talking of his son--General Prince Frederick Charles, popularly called the
Red Prince--who was in command of the Second Army in this battle--the German left wing.  In
recounting his son's professional career the old man's face was aglow with enthusiasm, and
not without good cause, for in the war between Prussia and Austria in 1866, as well as in the
present campaign, the Red Prince had displayed the highest order of military genius.

The headquarters now became the scene of much bustle, despatches announcing the victory being
sent in all directions.  The first one transmitted was to the Queen, the King directing Count
Bismarck to prepare it for his signature; then followed others of a more official character,
and while these matters were being attended to I thought I would ride into the village to find,
if possible, some water for my horse.  Just as I entered the chief street, however, I was suddenly
halted by a squad of soldiers, who, taking me for a French officer (my coat and forage cap
resembling those of the French), leveled their pieces at me.  They were greatly excited, so
much so, indeed, that I thought my hour had come, for they could not understand English, and
I could not speak German, and dare not utter explanations in French.  Fortunately a few disconnected
German words came to me in the emergency.  With these I managed to delay my execution, and
one of the party ventured to come up to examine the "suspect" more closely.  The first thing
he did was to take off my cap, and looking it over carefully, his eyes rested on the three
stars above the visor, and, pointing to them, he emphatically pronounced me French.  Then of
course they all became excited again, more so than before, even, for they thought I was trying
to practice a ruse, and I question whether I should have lived to recount the adventure had
not an officer belonging to the King's headquarters been passing by just then, when, hearing
the threatenings and imprecations, he rode up to learn the cause of the hubbub, and immediately
recognized and released me.  When he told my wrathy captors who I was, they were much mortified
of course, and made the most profuse apologies, promising that no such mistake should occur
again, and so on; but not feeling wholly reassured, for my uniform was still liable to mislead,
I was careful to return to headquarters in company with my deliverer.  There I related what
had occurred, and after a good laugh all round, the King provided me with a pass which he said
would preclude any such mishap in the future, and would also permit me to go wherever I pleased--a
favor rarely bestowed.

CHAPTER XVII

SEARCHING FOR QUARTERS--HUNTING UP PROVISIONS--A SLENDER BREAKFAST --GOING OVER THE BATTLEFIELD--THE
GERMAN ARTILLERY--A GROUP OF WOUNDED --DINING WITH THE KING--ON THE MARCH--THE BAVARIANS--KIRSCHWASSER
--URGING ON THE TROOPS.

While I was absent, as related in the preceding chapter, it had been decided that the King's
quarters should be established for the night in the village of Rezonville; and as it would
be very difficult, at such a late hour, to billet the whole party regularly, Count Bismarck
and I went off to look for shelter for ourselves.  Remembering that I had seen, when seeking
to water my horse, a partly burned barn with some fresh-looking hay in it, I suggested that
we lodge there.  He too thought it would answer our purpose, but on reaching it we found the
unburned part of the barn filled with wounded, and this necessitating a further search we continued
on through the village in quest of some house not yet converted into a hospital.  Such, however,
seemed impossible to come upon, so at last the Count fixed on one whose upper floor, we learned,
was unoccupied, though the lower one was covered with wounded.

Mounting a creaky ladder--there was no stairway--to the upper story, we found a good-sized
room with three large beds, one of which the Chancellor assigned to the Duke of Mecklenburg
and aide, and another to Count Bismarck-Bohlen and me, reserving the remaining one for himself.
Each bed, as is common in Germany and northern France, was provided with a feather tick, but
the night being warm, these spreads were thrown off, and discovering that they would make a
comfortable shakedown on the floor, I slept there leaving Bismarck-Bohlen unembarrassed by
companionship--at least of a human kind.

At daylight I awoke, and seeing that Count Bismarck was already dressed and about to go down
the ladder, I felt obliged to follow his example, so I too turned out, and shortly descended
to the ground-floor, the only delays of the toilet being those incident to dressing, for there
were no conveniences for morning ablutions.  Just outside the door I met the Count, who, proudly
exhibiting a couple of eggs he had bought from the woman of the house, invited me to breakfast
with him, provided we could beg some coffee from the king's escort.  Putting the eggs under
my charge, with many injunctions as to their safe-keeping, he went off to forage for the coffee,
and presently returned, having been moderately successful.  One egg apiece was hardly enough,
however, to appease the craving of two strong men ravenous from long fasting.  Indeed, it seemed
only to whet the appetite, and we both set out on an eager expedition for more food.  Before
going far I had the good luck to meet a sutler's wagon, and though its stock was about all
sold, there were still left four large bologna sausages, which I promptly purchased--paying
a round sum for them too--and hastening back found the Count already returned, though without
bringing anything at all to eat; but he had secured a couple of bottles of brandy, and with
a little of this--it was excellent, too--and the sausages, the slim ration of eggs and coffee
was amply reinforced.

Breakfast over, the Chancellor invited me to accompany him in a ride to the battle-field, and
I gladly accepted, as I very much desired to pass over the ground in front of Gravelotte, particularly
so to see whether the Krupp guns had really done the execution that was claimed for them by
the German artillery officers.  Going directly through the village of Gravelotte, following
the causeway over which the German cavalry had passed to make its courageous but futile charge,
we soon reached the ground where the fighting had been the most severe.  Here the field was
literally covered with evidences of the terrible strife, the dead and wounded strewn thick
on every side.

In the sunken road the carnage had been awful; men and horses having been slaughtered there
by hundreds, helpless before the murderous fire delivered from behind a high stone wall impracticable
to mounted troops.  The sight was sickening to an extreme, and we were not slow to direct our
course elsewhere, going up the glacis toward the French line, the open ground over which we
crossed being covered with thousands of helmets, that had been thrown off by the Germans during
the fight and were still dotting the field, though details of soldiers from the organizations
which had been engaged here were about to begin to gather up their abandoned headgear.

When we got inside the French works, I was astonished to observe how little harm had been done
the defenses by the German artillery, for although I had not that serene faith in the effectiveness
of their guns held by German artillerists generally, yet I thought their terrific cannonade
must have left marked results.  All I could perceive, however, was a disabled gun, a broken
mitrailleuse, and two badly damaged caissons.

Everything else, except a little ammunition in the trenches, had been carried away, and it
was plain to see, from the good shape in which the French left wing had retired to Metz, that
its retreat had been predetermined by the disasters to the right wing.

By this hour the German cavalry having been thrown out to the front well over toward Metz,
we, following it to get a look at the city, rode to a neighboring summit, supposing it would
be a safe point of observation; but we shortly realized the contrary, for scarcely had we reached
the crest when some of the French pickets, lying concealed about six hundred yards off, opened
fire, making it so very hot for us that, hugging the necks of our horses, we incontinently
fled. Observing what had taken place, a troop of German cavalry charged the French outpost
and drove it far enough away to make safe our return, and we resumed possession of the point,
but only to discover that the country to the east was so broken and hilly that no satisfactory
view of Metz could be had.

Returning to Gravelotte, we next visited that part of the battlefield to the northeast of the
village, and before long Count Bismarck discovered in a remote place about twenty men dreadfully
wounded. These poor fellows had had no attention whatever, having been overlooked by the hospital
corps, and their condition was most pitiful.  Yet there was one very handsome man in the group--a
captain of artillery--who, though shot through the right breast, was talkative and cheerful,
and felt sure of getting well.  Pointing, however, to a comrade lying near, also shot in the
breast, he significantly shook his head; it was easy to see on this man's face the signs--of
fast approaching death.

An orderly was at once despatched for a surgeon, Bismarck and I doing what we could meanwhile
to alleviate the intense sufferings of the maimed men, bringing them water and administering
a little brandy, for the Count still had with him some of the morning's supply.  When the surgeons
came, we transferred the wounded to their care, and making our way to Rezonville, there took
the Count's carriage to rejoin the King's headquarters, which in the mean time had been moved
to Pont-a-Mousson.  Our route led through the village of Gorze, and here we found the streets
so obstructed with wagons that I feared it would take us the rest of the day to get through,
for the teamsters would not pay the slightest heed to the cries of our postilions.  The Count
was equal to the emergency, however, for, taking a pistol from behind his cushion, and bidding
me keep my seat, he jumped out and quickly began to clear the street effectively, ordering
wagons to the right and left.  Marching in front of the carriage and making way for us till
we were well through the blockade, he then resumed his seat, remarking, "This is not a very
dignified business for the Chancellor of the German Confederation, but it's the only way to
get through."

At Pont-a-Mousson I was rejoined by my aide, General Forsyth, and for the next two days our
attention was almost wholly devoted to securing means of transportation.  This was most difficult
to obtain, but as I did not wish to impose on the kindness of the Chancellor longer, we persevered
till, finally, with the help of Count Bismarck-Bohlen, we managed to get tolerably well equipped
with a saddle-horse apiece, and a two-horse carriage.  Here also, on the afternoon of August
21, I had the pleasure of dining with the King.  The dinner was a simple one, consisting of
soup, a joint, and two or three vegetables; the wines vin ordinaire and Burgundy.  There were
a good many persons of high rank present, none of whom spoke English, however, except Bismarck,
who sat next the King and acted as interpreter when his Majesty conversed with me.  Little
was said of the events taking place around us, but the King made many inquiries concerning
the war of the rebellion, particularly with reference to Grant's campaign at Vicksburg; suggested,
perhaps, by the fact that there, and in the recent movements of the German army, had been applied
many similar principles of military science.

The French army under Marshal Bazaine having retired into the fortifications of Metz, that
stronghold was speedily invested by Prince Frederick Charles.  Meantime the Third Army, under
the Crown Prince of Prussia--which, after having fought and won the battle of Worth, had been
observing the army of Marshal MacMahon during and after the battle of Gravelotte--was moving
toward Paris by way of Nancy, in conjunction with an army called the Fourth, which had been
organized from the troops previously engaged around Metz, and on the 22d was directed toward
Bar-le-Duc under the command of the Crown Prince of Saxony.  In consequence of these operations
the King decided to move to Commercy, which place we reached by carriage, traveling on a broad
macadamized road lined on both sides with poplar-trees, and our course leading through a most
beautiful country thickly dotted with prosperous-looking villages.

On reaching Commercy, Forsyth and I found that quarters had been already selected for us, and
our names written on the door with chalk the quartermaster charged with the billeting of the
officers at headquarters having started out in advance to perform this duty and make all needful
preparations for the King before he arrived, which course was usually pursued thereafter, whenever
the royal headquarters took up a new location.

Forsyth and I were lodged with the notary of the village, who over and over again referred
to his good fortune in not having to entertain any of the Germans.  He treated us most hospitably,
and next morning,  on departing, we offered compensation by tendering a sum--about what our
bill would have been at a good hotel--to be used for the "benefit of the wounded or the Church."
Under this stipulation the notary accepted, and we followed that plan of paying for food and
lodging afterward, whenever quartered in private houses.

The next day I set out in advance of the headquarters, and reached Bar-le-Duc about noon, passing
on the way the Bavarian contingent of the Crown Prince's army.  These Bavarians were trim-looking
soldiers, dressed in neat uniforms of light blue; they looked healthy and strong, but seemed
of shorter stature than the North Germans I had seen in the armies of Prince Frederick Charles
and General von Steinmetz.  When, later in the day the King arrived, a guard for him was detailed
from this Bavarian contingent; a stroke of policy no doubt, for the South Germans were so prejudiced
against their brothers of the North that no opportunity to smooth them down was permitted to
go unimproved.

Bar-le-Duc, which had then a population of about 15,000, is one of the prettiest towns I saw
in France, its quaint and ancient buildings and beautiful boulevards charming the eye as well
as exciting deep interest.  The King and his immediate suite were quartered on one of the best
boulevards in a large building--the Bank of France--the balcony of which offered a fine opportunity
to observe a part of the army of the Crown Prince the next day on its march toward Vitry. This
was the first time his Majesty had had a chance to see any of these troops--as hitherto he
had accompanied either the army of Prince Frederick Charles, or that of General Steinmetz--and
the cheers with which he was greeted by the Bavarians left no room for doubting their loyalty
to the Confederation, notwithstanding ancient jealousies.

While the troops were passing, Count Bismarck had the kindness to point out to me the different
organizations, giving scraps of their history, and also speaking concerning the qualifications
of the different generals commanding them.  When the review was over we went to the Count's
house, and there, for the first time in my life, I tasted kirschwasser, a very strong liquor
distilled from cherries. Not knowing anything about the stuff, I had to depend on Bismarck's
recommendation, and he proclaiming it fine, I took quite a generous drink, which nearly strangled
me and brought on a violent fit of coughing.  The Chancellor said, however, that this was in
no way due to the liquor, but to my own inexperience, and I was bound to believe the distinguished
statesman, for he proved his words by swallowing a goodly dose with an undisturbed and even
beaming countenance, demonstrating his assertion so forcibly that I forthwith set out with
Bismarck-Bohlen to lay in a supply for myself.

I spent the night in a handsome house, the property of an exceptionally kind and polite gentleman
bearing the indisputably German name of Lager, but who was nevertheless French from head to
foot, if intense hatred of the Prussians be a sign of Gallic nationality.  At daybreak on the
26th word came for us to be ready to move by the Chalons road at 7 o'clock, but before we got
off, the order was suspended till 2 in the afternoon.  In the interval General von Moltke arrived
and held a long conference with the King, and when we did pull out we traveled the remainder
of the afternoon in company with a part of the Crown Prince's army, which after this conference
inaugurated the series of movements from Bar-le-Duc northward, that finally compelled the surrender
at Sedan.  This sudden change of direction I did not at first understand, but soon learned
that it was because of the movements of Marshal MacMahon, who, having united the French army
beaten at Worth with three fresh corps at Chalons, was marching to relieve Metz in obedience
to orders from the Minister of War at Paris.

As we passed along the column, we noticed that the Crown Prince's troops were doing their best,
the officers urging the men to their utmost exertions, persuading weary laggards and driving
up stragglers.  As a general thing, however, they marched in good shape, notwithstanding the
rapid gait and the trying heat, for at the outset of the campaign the Prince had divested them
of all impedimenta except essentials, and they were therefore in excellent trim for a forced march.

The King traveled further than usual that day--to Clermont--so we did not get shelter till
late, and even then not without some confusion, for the quartermaster having set out toward
Chalons before the change of programme was ordered, was not at hand to provide for us.  I had
extreme good luck, though, in being quartered with a certain apothecary, who, having lived
for a time in the United States, claimed it as a privilege even to lodge me, and certainly
made me his debtor for the most generous hospitality.  It was not so with some of the others,
however; and Count Bismarck was particularly unfortunate, being billeted in a very small and
uncomfortable house, where, visiting him to learn more fully what was going on, I found him,
wrapped in a shabby old dressing-gown, hard at work.  He was established in a very small room,
whose only furnishings consisted of a table--at which he was writing--a couple of rough chairs,
and the universal feather-bed, this time made on the floor in one corner of the room.  On my
remarking upon the limited character of his quarters, the Count replied, with great good-humor,
that they were all right, and that he should get along well enough.  Even the tramp of his
clerks in the attic, and the clanking of his orderlies' sabres below, did not disturb him much;
he said, in fact, that he would have no grievance at all were it not for a guard of Bavarian
soldiers stationed about the house for his safety, he presumed the sentinels from which insisted
on protecting and saluting the Chancellor of the North German Confederation in and out of season,
a proceeding that led to embarrassment sometimes, as he was much troubled with a severe dysentery.
Notwithstanding his trials, however, and in the midst of the correspondence on which he was
so intently engaged, he graciously took time to explain that the sudden movement northward
from Bar-le-Duc was, as I have previously recounted, the result of information that Marshal
MacMahon was endeavoring to relieve Metz by marching along the Belgian frontier; "a blundering
manoeuvre," remarked the Chancellor, "which cannot be accounted for, unless it has been brought
about by the political situation of the French."

CHAPTER XVIII.

AFTER MacMAHON--THE BATTLE AT BEAUMONT--THE FRENCH SURPRISED--THE MARCHING OF THE GERMAN SOLDIERS--THE
BATTLE OF SEDAN--GALLANT CAVALRY CHARGES--DEFEAT OF THE FRENCH--THE SURRENDER OF NAPOLEON--BISMARCK
AND THE KING--DECORATING THE SOLDIERS.

All night long the forced march of the army went on through Clermont, and when I turned out,
just after daylight, the columns were still pressing forward, the men looking tired and much
bedraggled, as indeed they had reason to be, for from recent rains the roads were very sloppy.
Notwithstanding this, however, the troops were pushed ahead with all possible vigor to intercept
MacMahon and force a battle before he could withdraw from his faulty movement, for which it
has since been ascertained he was not at all responsible.  Indeed, those at the royal headquarters
seemed to think of nothing else than to strike MacMahon, for, feeling pretty confident that
Metz could not be relieved, they manifested not the slightest anxiety on that score.

By 8 o'clock, the skies having cleared, the headquarters set out for Grand Pre', which place
we reached early in the afternoon, and that evening I again had the pleasure of dining with
the King.  The conversation at table was almost wholly devoted to the situation, of course,
everybody expressing surprise at the manoeuvre of the French at this time, their march along
the Belgian frontier being credited entirely to Napoleon.  Up to bed-time there was still much
uncertainty as to the exact positions of the French, but next morning intelligence being received
which denoted the probability of a battle, we drove about ten miles, to Buzancy, and there
mounting our horses, rode to the front.

The French were posted not far from Buzancy in a strong position, their right resting near
Stonne and the left extending over into the woods beyond Beaumont.  About 10 o'clock the Crown
Prince of Saxony advanced against this line, and while a part of his army turned the French
right, compelling it to fall back rapidly, the German centre and right attacked with great
vigor and much skill, surprising one of the divisions of General De Failly's corps while the
men were in the act of cooking their breakfast.

The French fled precipitately, leaving behind their tents and other camp equipage, and on inspecting
the ground which they had abandoned so hastily, I noticed on all sides ample evidence that
not even the most ordinary precautions had been taken to secure the division from surprise,
The artillery horses had not been harnessed, and many of them had been shot down at the picket-rope
where they had been haltered the night before, while numbers of men were lying dead with loaves
of bread or other food instead of their muskets in their hands.

Some three thousand prisoners and nearly all the artillery and mitrailleuses of the division--were
captured, while the fugitives were pursued till they found shelter behind--Douay's corps and
the rest of De Failly's beyond Beaumont.  The same afternoon there were several other severe
combats along the Meuse, but I had no chance of witnessing any of them, and just before night-fall
I started back to Buzancy, to which place the King's headquarters had been brought during the day.

The morning of the 31st the King moved to Vendresse.  First sending our carriage back to Grand
Pre' for our trunks, Forsyth and I mounted our horses and rode to the battle-field accompanied
by an English nobleman, the Duke of Manchester.  The part of the field we traversed was still
thickly strewn with the dead of both armies, though all the wounded had been collected in the
hospitals.  In the village of Beaumont, we stopped to take a look at several thousand French
prisoners, whose worn clothing and evident dejection told that they had been doing a deal of
severe marching under great discouragements.

The King reached the village shortly after, and we all continued on to Chemery, just beyond
where his Majesty alighted from his carriage to observe his son's troops file past as they
came in from the direction of Stonne.  This delay caused us to be as late as 9 o'clock before
we got shelter that night, but as it afforded me the best opportunity I had yet had for seeing
the German soldiers on the march, I did not begrudge the time.  They moved in a somewhat open
and irregular column of fours, the intervals between files being especially intended to give
room for a peculiar swinging gait, with which the men seemed to urge themselves over the ground
with ease and rapidity.  There was little or no straggling, and being strong, lusty young fellows,
and lightly equipped--they carried only needle-guns, ammunition, a very small knapsack, a water-bottle,
and a haversack --they strode by with an elastic step, covering at least three miles an hour.

It having been definitely ascertained that the demoralized French were retiring to Sedan, on
the evening of August 31 the German army began the work of hemming them in there, so disposing
the different corps as to cover the ground from Donchery around by Raucourt to Carignan.  The
next morning this line was to be drawn in closer on Sedan; and the Crown Prince of Saxony was
therefore ordered to take up a position to the north of Bazeilles, beyond the right bank of
the Meuse, while the Crown Prince of Prussia was to cross his right wing over the Meuse at
Remilly, to move on Bazeilles, his centre meantime marching against a number of little hamlets
still held by the French between there and Donchery.  At this last-mentioned place strong reserves
were to be held, and from it the Eleventh Corps, followed by the Fifth and a division of cavalry,
was to march on St. Menges.

Forsyth and I started early next morning, September 1, and in a thick fog-which, however, subsequently
gave place to bright sunshine--we drove to the village of Chevenges, where, mounting our horses,
we rode in a northeasterly direction to the heights of Frenois and Wadelincourt, bordering
the river Meuse on the left bank, where from the crest we had a good view of the town of Sedan
with its circling fortifications, which, though extensive, were not so formidable as those
around Metz.  The King and his staff were already established on these heights, and at a point
so well chosen that his Majesty could observe the movements of both armies immediately east
and south of Sedan, and also to the northwest toward Floing and the Belgian frontier.

The battle was begun to the east and northeast of Sedan as early as half-past 4 o'clock by
the German right wing--the fighting being desultory--and near the same hour the Bavarians attacked
Bazeilles. This village, some two miles southeast of Sedan, being of importance, was defended
with great obstinacy, the French contesting from street to street and house to house the attack
of the Bavarians till near 10 o'clock, when, almost every building being knocked to pieces,
they were compelled to relinquish the place.  The possession of this village gave the Germans
to the east of Sedan a continuous line, extending from the Meuse northward through La Moncelle
and Daigny to Givonne, and almost to the Belgian frontier.

While the German centre and right were thus engaged, the left had moved in accordance with
the prescribed plan.  Indeed, some of these troops had crossed the Meuse the night before,
and now, at a little after 6 o'clock, their advance could be seen just north of the village
of Floing.  Thus far these columns, under the immediate eye of the Crown Prince of Prussia,
had met with no opposition to their march, and as soon as they got to the high ground above
the village they began extending to the east, to connect with the Army of the Meuse.  This
juncture was effected at Illy without difficulty, and the French army was now completely encompassed.

After a severe fight, the Crown Prince drove the French through Floing, and as the ground between
this village and Sedan is an undulating open plain, everywhere visible, there was then offered
a rare opportunity for seeing the final conflict preceding the surrender.  Presently up out
of the little valley where Floing is located came the Germans, deploying just on the rim of
the plateau a very heavy skirmish-line, supported by a line of battle at close distance.  When
these skirmishers appeared, the French infantry had withdrawn within its intrenched lines,
but a strong body of their cavalry, already formed in a depression to the right of the Floing
road, now rode at the Germans in gallant style, going clear through the dispersed skirmishers
to the main line of battle.  Here the slaughter of the French was awful, for in addition to
the deadly volleys from the solid battalions of their enemies, the skirmishers, who had rallied
in knots at advantageous places, were now delivering a severe and effective fire.  The gallant
horsemen, therefore, had to retire precipitately, but re-forming in the depression, they again
undertook the hopeless task of breaking the German infantry, making in all four successive
charges.  Their ardor and pluck were of no avail, however, for the Germans, growing stronger
every minute by the accession of troops from Floing, met the fourth attack in such large force
that, even before coming in contact with their adversaries, the French broke and retreated
to the protection of the intrenchments, where, from the beginning of the combat, had been lying
plenty of idle infantry, some of which at least, it seemed plain to me, ought to have been
thrown into the fight.  This action was the last one of consequence around Sedan, for, though
with the contraction of the German lines their batteries kept cannonading more or less, and
the rattle of musketry continued to be heard here and there, yet the hard fighting of the day
practically ended on the plateau of Floing.

By 3 o'clock, the French being in a desperate and hopeless situation, the King ordered the
firing to be stopped, and at once despatched one of his staff--Colonel von Bronsart--with a
demand for a surrender. Just as this officer was starting off, I remarked to Bismarck that
Napoleon himself would likely be one of the prizes, but the Count, incredulous, replied, "Oh
no; the old fox is too cunning to be caught in such a trap; he has doubtless slipped off to
Paris"--a belief which I found to prevail pretty generally about headquarters.

In the lull that succeeded, the King invited many of those about him to luncheon, a caterer
having provided from some source or other a substantial meal of good bread, chops and peas,
with a bountiful supply of red and sherry wines.  Among those present were Prince Carl, Bismarck,
Von Moltke, Von Roon, the Duke of Weimar, the Duke of Coburg, the Grand-Duke of Mecklenburg,
Count Hatzfeldt, Colonel Walker, of the English army, General Forsyth, and I.  The King was
agreeable and gracious at all times, but on this occasion he was particularly so, being naturally
in a happy frame of mind because this day the war had reached a crisis which presaged for the
near future the complete vanquishment of the French.

Between 4 and 5 o'clock Colonel von Bronsart returned from his mission to Sedan, bringing word
to the King that the commanding officer there General Wimpffen, wished to know, in order that
the further effusion of blood might be spared, upon what terms he might surrender.  The Colonel
brought the intelligence also that the French Emperor was in the town.  Soon after Von Bronsart's
arrival a French officer approached from Sedan, preceded by a white flag and two German officers.
Coming up the road till within a few hundred yards of us, they halted; then one of the Germans
rode forward to say that the French officer was Napoleon's adjutant, bearing an autograph letter
from the Emperor to the King of Prussia.  At this the King, followed by Bismarck, Von Moltke,
and Von Roon, walked out to the front a little distance and halted, his Majesty still in advance,
the rest of us meanwhile forming in a line some twenty paces to the rear of the group.  The
envoy then approached, at first on horseback, but when within about a hundred yards he dismounted,
and uncovering, came the remaining distance on foot, bearing high up in his right hand the
despatch from Napoleon.  The bearer proved to be General Reille, and as he handed the Emperor's
letter to the King, his Majesty saluted him with the utmost formality and precision.  Napoleon's
letter was the since famous one, running so characteristically, thus: "Not having been able
to die in the midst of my troops, there is nothing left me but to place my sword in your Majesty's
hands." The reading finished, the King returned to his former post, and after a conference
with Bismarck, Von Moltke, and Von Roon, dictated an answer accepting Napoleon's surrender,
and requesting him to designate an officer with power to treat for the capitulation of the
army, himself naming Von Moltke to represent the Germans.  The King then started for Vendresse,
to pass the night.  It was after 7 o'clock now, and hence too late to arrange anything more
where we were, so further negotiations were deferred till later in the evening; and I, wishing
to be conveniently near Bismarck, resolved to take up quarters in Donchery.  On our way thither
we were met by the Count's nephew, who assuring us that it would be impossible to find shelter
there in the village, as all the houses were filled with wounded, Forsyth and I decided to
continue on to Chevenge.  On the other hand, Bismarck-Bohlen bore with him one great comfort--some
excellent brandy.  Offering the flask to his uncle, he said: "You've had a hard day of it;
won't you refresh yourself?"  The Chancellor, without wasting time to answer, raised the bottle
to his lips, exclaiming: "Here's to the unification of Germany!" which sentiment the gurgling
of an astonishingly long drink seemed to emphasize.  The Count then handed the bottle back
to his nephew, who, shaking it, ejaculated, "Why, we can't pledge you in return--there is nothing
left!" to which came the waggish response, "I beg pardon; it was so dark I couldn't see"; nevertheless
there was a little remaining, as I myself can aver.

Having left our carriage at Chevenge, Forsyth and I stopped there to get it, but a long search
proving fruitless, we took lodging in the village at the house of the cure, resolved to continue
the hunt in the morning.  But then we had no better success, so concluding that our vehicle
had been pressed into the hospital service, we at an early hour on the 2d of September resumed
the search, continuing on down the road in the direction of Sedan.  Near the gate of the city
we came on the German picket-line, and one of the Officers, recognizing our uniforms--he having
served in the war of the rebellion--stepped forward and addressed me in good English.  We naturally
fell into conversation, and in the midst of it there came out through the gate an open carriage,
or landau, containing two men, one of whom, in the uniform of a general and smoking a cigarette,
we recognized, when the conveyance drew near, as the Emperor Louis Napoleon.  The landau went
on toward Donchery at a leisurely pace, and we, inferring that there was something more important
at hand just then than the recovery of our trap, followed at a respectful distance.  Not quite
a mile from Donchery is a cluster of three or four cottages, and at the first of these the
landau stopped to await, as we afterward ascertained, Count Bismarck, with whom the diplomatic
negotiations were to be settled.  Some minutes elapsed before he came, Napoleon remaining seated
in his carriage meantime, still smoking, and accepting with nonchalance the staring of a group
of German soldiers near by, who were gazing on their fallen foe with curious and eager interest.

Presently a clattering of hoofs was heard, and looking toward the sound, I perceived the Chancellor
cantering down the road.  When abreast of the carriage he dismounted, and walking up to it,
saluted the Emperor in a quick, brusque way that seemed to startle him. After a word or two,
the party moved perhaps a hundred yards further on, where they stopped opposite the weaver's
cottage so famous from that day.  This little house is on the east side of the Donchery road,
near its junction with that to Frenois, and stands about twenty paces back from the highway.
In front is a stone wall covered with creeping vines, and from a gate in this wall runs to
the front door a path, at this time bordered on both sides with potato vines.

The Emperor having alighted at the gate, he and Bismarck walked together along the narrow path
and entered the cottage.  Reappearing in about a quarter of an hour, they came out and seated
themselves in the open air, the weaver having brought a couple of chairs.  Here they engaged
in an animated conversation, if much gesticulation is any indication.  The talk lasted fully
an hour, Bismarck seeming to do most of it, but at last he arose, saluted the Emperor, and
strode down the path toward his horse.  Seeing me standing near the gate, he joined me for
a moment, and asked if I had noticed how the Emperor started when they first met, and I telling
him that I had, he added, "Well, it must have been due to my manners, not my words, for these
we're, 'I salute your Majesty just as I would my King.'"  Then the Chancellor continued to
chat a few minutes longer, assuring me that nothing further was to be done there, and that
we had better go to the Chateau Bellevue, where, he said, the formal surrender was to take
place.  With this he rode off toward Vendresse to communicate with his sovereign, and Forsyth
and I made ready to go to the Chateau Bellevue.

Before we set out, however, a number of officers of the King's suite arrived at the weaver's
cottage, and from them I gathered that there were differences at the royal headquarters as
to whether peace should be made then at Sedan, or the war continued till the French capital
was taken.  I further heard that the military advisers of the King strongly advocated an immediate
move on Paris, while the Chancellor thought it best to make peace now, holding Alsace and Lorraine,
and compelling the payment of an enormous levy of money; and these rumors were most likely
correct, for I had often heard Bismarck say that France being the richest country in Europe,
nothing could keep her quiet but effectually to empty her pockets; and besides this, he impressed
me as holding that it would be better policy to preserve the Empire.

On our way to the chateau we fell in with a number of artillery officers bringing up their
guns hurriedly to post them closer in to the beleaguered town on a specially advantageous ridge.
Inquiring the cause of this move, we learned that General Wimpffen had not yet agreed to the
terms of surrender; that it was thought he would not, and that they wanted to be prepared for
any such contingency.  And they were preparing with a vengeance too, for I counted seventy-two
Krupp guns in one continuous line trained on the Chateau Bellevue and Sedan.

Napoleon went directly from the weaver's to the Chateau Bellevue, and about 10 o'clock the
King of Prussia arrived from Frenois, accompanied by a few of his own suite and the Crown Prince
with several members of his staff; and Von Moltke and Wimpffen having settled their points
of difference before the two monarchs met, within the next half-hour the articles of capitulation
were formally signed.

On the completion of the surrender--the occasion being justly considered a great one--the Crown
Prince proceeded to distribute among the officers congregated in the chateau grounds 'the order
of the Iron Cross'--a generous supply of these decorations being carried in a basket by one
of his orderlies, following him about as he walked along.  Meantime the King, leaving Napoleon
in the chateau to ruminate on the fickleness of fortune, drove off to see his own victorious
soldiers, who greeted him with huzzas that rent the air, and must have added to the pangs of
the captive Emperor.

CHAPTER XIX.

RIDING OVER THE BATTLEFIELD--DESTRUCTION OF BAZEILLES--MISTAKES OF THE FRENCH--MARSHAL BAZAINE
ON TO PARIS--A WEEK IN MEAUX--RHEIMS--ON THE PICKETLINE-UNDER FIRE--A SURRENDER--AT VERSAILLES--GENERAL
BURNSIDE AND Mr. FORBES IN PARIS.

The Crown Prince having got to the bottom of his medal basket-that is to say, having finished
his liberal distribution of decorations to his officers--Forsyth and I rode off by way of Wadelincourt
to Bazeilles to see what had taken place on that part of the field, and the sight that met
our eyes as we entered the village was truly dreadful to look upon.  Most of the houses had
been knocked down or burned the day before, but such as had been left standing were now in
flames, the torch having been applied because, as it was claimed, Frenchmen concealed in them
had fired on the wounded.  The streets were still encumbered with both German and French dead,
and it was evident that of those killed in the houses the bodies had not been removed, for
the air was loaded with odors of burning flesh.  From Bazeille we rode on toward the north
about two miles, along where the fight had been largely an artillery duel, to learn what we
could of the effectiveness of the Krupp gun.  Counting all the French dead we came across killed
by artillery, they figured up about three hundred --a ridiculously small number; in fact, not
much more than one dead man for each Krupp gun on that part of the line.  Although the number
of dead was in utter disproportion to the terrific six-hour cannonade, yet small as it was
the torn and mangled bodies made such a horrible sight that we turned back toward Bazeilles
without having gone further than Givonne.

At Bazeilles we met the King, accompanied by Bismarck and several of the staff.  They too had
been riding over the field, the King making this a practice, to see that the wounded were not
neglected.  As I drew up by the party, Bismarck accosted me with, "Well, General, aren't you
hungry?  This is just the place to whet one's appetite --these burning Frenchmen--Ugh!" and
shrugging his shoulders in evident disgust, he turned away to join his Majesty in further explorations,
Forsyth and I continuing on to Chevenges.  Here we got the first inkling of what had become
of our carriage since leaving it two days before: it had been pressed into service to carry
wounded officers from the field during the battle, but afterward released, and was now safe
at the house in Vendresse where we had been quartered the night of the 31st, so, on hearing
this, we settled to go there again to lodge, but our good friend, the cure', insisting that
we should stay with him, we remained in Chevenges till next morning.

On September 3 the King removed from Vendresse to Rethel, where he remained two days; in the
mean while the Germans, 240,000 strong, beginning their direct march to Paris.  The French
had little with which to oppose this enormous force, not more, perhaps, than 50,000 regular
troops; the rest of their splendid army had been lost or captured in battle, or was cooped
up in the fortifications of Metz, Strasburg, and other places, in consequence of blunders without
parallel in history, for which Napoleon and the Regency in Paris must be held accountable.
The first of these gross faults was the fight at Worth, where MacMahon, before his army was
mobilized, accepted battle with the Crown Prince, pitting 50,000 men against 175,000; the next
was Bazaine's fixing upon Metz as his base, and stupidly putting himself in position to be
driven back to it, when there was no possible obstacle to his joining forces with MacMahon
at Chalons; while the third and greatest blunder of all was MacMahon's move to relieve Metz,
trying to slip 140,000 men along the Belgian frontier. Indeed, it is exasperating and sickening
to think of all this; to think that Bazaine carried into Metz--a place that should have been
held, if at all, with not over 25,000 men--an army of 180,000, because it contained, the excuse
was, "an accumulation of stores." With all the resources of rich France to draw upon, I cannot
conceive that this excuse was sincere; on the contrary, I think that the movement of Bazaine
must have been inspired by Napoleon with a view to the maintenance of his dynasty rather than
for the good of France.

As previously stated, Bismarck did not approve of the German army's moving on Paris after the
battle of Sedan.  Indeed, I think he foresaw and dreaded the establishment of a Republic, his
idea being that if peace was made then, the Empire could be continued in the person of the
Prince Imperial who--, coming to the throne under German influences, would be pliable in his
hands.  These views found frequent expression in private, and in public too; I myself particularly
remember the Chancellor's speaking thus most unguardedly at a dinner in Rheims.  But he could
not prevent the march to Paris; it was impossible to stop the Germans, flushed with success.
"On to Paris" was written by the soldiers on every door, and every fence-board along the route
to the capital, and the thought of a triumphant march down the Champs Elysees was uppermost
with every German, from the highest to the lowest grade.

The 5th of September we set out for Rheims.  There it was said the Germans would meet with
strong resistance, for the French intended to die to the last man before giving up that city.
But this proved all fudge, as is usual with these "last ditch" promises, the garrison decamping
immediately at the approach of a few Uhlans.  So far as I could learn, but a single casualty
happened; this occurred to an Uhlan, wounded by a shot which it was reported was fired from
a house after the town was taken; so, to punish this breach of faith, a levy of several hundred
bottles of champagne was made, and the wine divided about headquarters, being the only seizure
made in the city, I believe, for though Rheims, the centre of the champagne district, had its
cellars well stocked, yet most of them being owned by German firms, they received every protection.

The land about Rheims is of a white, chalky character, and very poor, but having been terraced
and enriched with fertilizers, it produces the champagne grape in such abundance that the region,
once considered valueless, and named by the peasantry the "land of the louse," now supports
a dense population.  We remained in Rheims eight days, and through the politeness of the American
Consul--Mr. Adolph Gill--had the pleasure of seeing all the famous wine cellars, and inspecting
the processes followed in champagne making, from the step of pressing the juice from the grape
to that which shows the wine ready for the market.  Mr. Gill also took us to see everything
else of special interest about the city, and there being much to look at --fine old churches,
ancient fortifications, a Roman gateway, etc. --the days slipped by very quickly, though the
incessant rains somewhat interfered with our enjoyment.

For three or four days all sorts of rumors were rife as to what was doing in Paris, but nothing
definite was learned till about the 9th; then Count Bismarck informed me that the Regency had
been overthrown on the 4th, and that the Empress Eugenie had escaped to Belgium.  The King
of Prussia offered her an asylum with the Emperor at Wilhelmshohe, "where she ought to go,"
said the Chancellor, "for her proper place is with her husband," but he feared she would not.
On the same occasion he also told me that Jules Favre--the head of the Provisional Government--had
sent him the suggestion that, the Empire being gone, peace should be made and the Germans withdrawn,
but that he (Bismarck) was now compelled to recognize the impossibility of doing this till
Paris was taken, for although immediately after the surrender of Sedan he desired peace, the
past few days had made it plain that the troops would not be satisfied with anything short
of Paris, no matter what form of Government the French should ultimately adopt.

The German army having met with no resistance whatever in its march on Paris, its advance approached
the capital rapidly, and by the 14th of September the royal headquarters moved by a fine macadamized
road to the Chateau Thierry, and on the 5th reached Meaux, about twenty-eight miles from Paris,
where we remained four days awaiting the reconstruction of some railroad and canal bridges.
The town of Meaux has a busy population of about 10,000 souls, in peaceable times principally
occupied in manufacturing flour for the Paris market, having a fine waterpower for the many
mills.  These were kept going day and night to supply the German army; and it was strange to
see with what zeal Frenchmen toiled to fill the stomachs of their inveterate enemies, and with
what alacrity the mayor and other officials filled requisitions for wine, cheese, suits of
livery, riding-whips, and even squab pigeons.

During our stay at Meaux the British Minister Lord Lyons, endeavored to bring about a cessation
of hostilities, to this end sending his secretary out from Paris with a letter to Count Bismarck,
offering to serve as mediator.  The Chancellor would not agree to this, however, for he conjectured
that the action of the British Minister had been inspired by Jules Favre, who, he thought,
was trying to draw the Germans into negotiations through the medium of a third party only for
purposes of delay.  So the next morning Lord Lyons's secretary, Mr. Edward Malet, returned
to Paris empty-handed, except that he bore a communication positively declining mediation;
which message, however, led no doubt to an interview between Bismarck and Favre a couple of
days later.

The forenoon of September 19 the King removed to the Chateau Ferrieres--a castle belonging
to the Rothschild family, where Napoleon had spent many happy days in the time of his prosperity.
His Majesty took up his quarters here at the suggestion of the owner, we were told, so that
by the presence of the King the magnificent chateau and its treasures of art would be unquestionably
protected from all acts of vandalism.

All of the people at headquarters except the King's immediate suite were assigned quarters
at Lagny; and while Forsyth and I, accompanied by Sir Henry Havelock, of the British army,
were driving thither, we passed on the road the representative of the National Defense Government,
Jules Favre, in a carriage heading toward Meaux. Preceded by a flag of truce and accompanied
by a single, companion, be was searching for Count Bismarck, in conformity, doubtless, with
the message the Chancellor had sent to Paris on the 17th by the British secretary.  A half-mile
further on we met Bismarck.  He too was traveling toward Meaux, not in the best of humor either,
it appeared, for having missed finding the French envoy at the rendezvous where they had agreed
to meet, he stopped long enough to say that the "air was full of lies, and that there were
many persons with the army bent on business that did not concern them."

The armies of the two Crown Princes were now at the outskirts of Paris.  They had come from
Sedan mainly by two routes--the Crown Prince of Saxony marching by the northern line, through
Laon and Soissons, and the Crown Prince of Prussia by the southern line, keeping his right
wing on the north bank of the Marne, while his left and centre approached the French capital
by roads between that river and the Seine.

The march of these armies had been unobstructed by any resistance worth mentioning, and as
the routes of both columns lay through a region teeming with everything necessary for their
support, and rich even in luxuries, it struck me that such campaigning was more a vast picnic
than like actual war.  The country supplied at all points bread, meat, and wine in abundance,
and the neat villages, never more than a mile or two apart, always furnished shelter; hence
the enormous trains required to feed and provide camp equipage for an army operating in a sparsely
settled country were dispensed with; in truth, about the only impedimenta of the Germans was
their wagons carrying ammunition, pontoon-boats, and the field-telegraph.

On the morning of the 20th I started out accompanied by Forsyth and Sir Henry Havelock, and
took the road through Boissy St. George, Boissy St. Martins and Noisy Le Grand to Brie.  Almost
every foot of the way was strewn with fragments of glass from wine bottles, emptied and then
broken by the troops.  There was, indeed, so much of this that I refrain from making any estimate
of the number of bottles, lest I be thought to exaggerate, but the road was literally paved
with glass, and the amount of wine consumed (none was wasted) must have been enormous, far
more, even, than I had seen evidence of at any time before.  There were two almost continuous
lines of broken bottles along the roadsides all the way down from Sedan; but that exhibit was
small compared with what we saw about Brie.

At Brie we were taken charge of by the German commandant of the place.  He entertained us most
hospitably for an hour or so, and then, accompanied by a lieutenant, who was to be our guide,
I set out ahead of my companions to gain a point on the picket-line where I expected to get
a good look at the French, for their rifle-pits were but a few hundred yards off across the
Marne, their main line being just behind the rifle-pits.  As the lieutenant and I rode through
the village, some soldiers warned us that the adventure would be dangerous, but that we could
probably get to the desired place unhurt if we avoided the French fire by forcing our horses
to a run in crossing some open streets where we would be exposed.  On getting to the first
street my guide galloped ahead to show the way, and as the French were not on the lookout for
anything of the kind at these dangerous points, only a few stray shots were drawn by the lieutenant,
but when I followed, they were fully up to what was going on, and let fly a volley every time
they saw me in the open. Fortunately, however, in their excitement they overshot, but when
I drew rein alongside of my guide under protection of the bluff where the German picket was
posted, my hair was all on end, and I was about as badly scared as ever I had been in my life.
As soon as I could recover myself I thought of Havelock and Forsyth, with the hope that they
would not follow; nor did they, for having witnessed my experience, they wisely concluded that,
after all, they did not care so much to see the French rifle-pits.

When I had climbed to the top of the bluff I was much disappointed, for I could see but little--only
the advanced rifle-pits across the river, and Fort Nogent beyond them, not enough, certainly,
to repay a non-combatant for taking the risk of being killed.  The next question was to return,
and deciding to take no more such chances as those we had run in coming out, I said we would
wait till dark, but this proved unnecessary, for to my utter astonishment my guide informed
me that there was a perfectly safe route by which we might go back.  I asked why we had not
taken it in coming, and he replied that he had thought it "too long and circuitous."  To this
I could say nothing, but I concluded that that was not quite the correct reason; the truth
is that early that morning the young fellow had been helping to empty some of the many wine
bottles I saw around Brie, and consequently had a little more "Dutch courage"--was a little
more rash--than would have been the case under other conditions.

I rode back to Brie by the "long and circuitous" route, and inquiring there for my companions,
found Havelock waiting to conduct me to the village of Villiers, whither, he said, Forsyth
had been called to make some explanation about his passport, which did not appear to be in
satisfactory shape.  Accordingly we started for Villiers, and Havelock, being well mounted
on an English "hunter," and wishing to give me an exhibition of the animal's training and power,
led the way across ditches and fences, but my horse, never having followed "the hounds," was
unsafe to experiment with, so, after trying a low fence or two, I decided to leave my friend
alone in his diversion, and a few moments later, seeing both horse and rider go down before
a ditch and high stone wall, I was convinced that my resolution was a discreet one.  After
this mishap, which luckily resulted in no harm, I hoped Sir Henry would give up the amusement,
but by failure becoming only the more determined, in a second effort he cleared the wall handsomely
and rode across-country to the villages.  Following the road till it passed under a railway
bridge, I there thought I saw a chance to gain Villiers by a short-cut, and changing my course
accordingly, I struck into a large vineyard to the left, and proceeding a few hundred yards
through the vines, came suddenly upon a German picket-post.  The guard immediately leveled
their rifles at me, when, remembering my Rezonville experience of being taken for a French
officer because of my uniform, I hastily flung myself from the saddle in token of surrender.
The action being rightly interpreted, the men held their fire, and as my next thought was the
King's pass I reached under my coat-skirt for the document, but this motion being taken as
a grab for my pistol, the whole lot of them--some ten in number--again aimed at me, and with
such loud demands for surrender that I threw up my hands and ran into their ranks.  The officer
of the guard then coming up, examined my credentials, and seeing that they were signed by the
King of Prussia, released me and directed the recovery of my horse, which was soon caught,
and I was then conducted to the quarters of the commandant, where I found Forsyth with his
pass properly vised, entirely ignorant of my troubles, and contentedly regaling himself on
cheese and beer.  Havelock having got to the village ahead of me, thanks to his cross-country
ride, was there too, sipping beer with Forsyth; nor was I slow to follow their example, for
the ride of the day, though rather barren in other results, at any rate had given me a ravenous
appetite.

Late that evening, the 20th, we resumed our old quarters at Lagny, and early next day I made
a visit to the royal headquarters at Ferrires, where I observed great rejoicing going on, the
occasion for it being an important victory gained near Mendon, a French corps of about 30,000
men under General Ducrot having been beaten by the Fifth Prussian and Second Bavarian corps.
Ducrot had been stubbornly holding ground near Mendon for two or three days, much to the embarrassment
of the Germans too, since he kept them from closing a gap in their line to the southwest of
Paris; but in the recent fight he had been driven from the field with such heavy loss as to
render impossible his maintaining the gap longer.  The Crown Prince of Prussia was thus enabled
to extend his left, without danger, as far as Bougival, north of Versailles, and eventually
met the right of the Crown Prince of Saxony, already at Denil, north of St. Denis.  The unbroken
circle of investment around Paris being well-nigh assured, news of its complete accomplishment
was momentarily expected; therefore everybody was jubilant on account of the breaking up of
Ducrot, but more particularly because word had been received the same morning that a correspondence
had begun between Bazaine and Prince Frederick Charles, looking to the capitulation of Metz,
for the surrender of that place would permit the Second Army to join in the siege of Paris.

Learning all this, and seeing that the investment was about completed, I decided to take up
my quarters at Versailles, and started for that place on the 22d, halting at Noisy le Grand
to take luncheon with some artillery officers, whose acquaintance we had made the day of the
surrender at Sedan.  During the meal I noticed two American flags flying on a couple of houses
near by.  Inquiring the significance of this, I was told that the flags had been put up to
protect the buildings--the owners, two American citizens, having in a bad fright abandoned
their property, and, instead of remaining outside, gone into Paris,--"very foolishly," said
our hospitable friends, "for here they could have obtained food in plenty, and been perfectly
secure from molestation."

We arrived at Versailles about 7 o'clock that evening and settled ourselves in the Hotel Reservoir,
happy to find there two or three American families, with whom, of course, we quickly made acquaintance.
This American circle was enlarged a few days later by the arrival of General Wm. B. Hazen,
of our army, General Ambrose E. Burnside, and Mr. Paul Forbes.  Burnside and Forbes were hot
to see, from the French side, something of the war, and being almost beside themselves to get
into Paris, a permit was granted them by Count Bismarck, and they set out by way of Sevres,
Forsyth and I accompanying them as far as the Palace of St. Cloud, which we, proposed to see,
though there were strict orders against its being visited generally.  After much trouble we
managed, through the "open sesame" of the King's pass, to gain access to the palace; but to
our great disappointment we found that all the pictures had been cut from the frames and carried
off to Paris, except one portrait, that of Queen Victoria, against whom the French were much
incensed.  All other works of art had been removed, too--a most fortunate circumstance, for
the palace being directly on the German line, was raked by the guns from the fortress of Mont
Valerien, and in a few days burned to the ground.

In less than a week Burnside and Forbes returned from Paris.  They told us their experience
had been interesting, but were very reticent as to particulars, and though we tried hard to
find out what they had seen or done, we could get nothing from them beyond the general statement
that they had had a good time, and that General Trochu had been considerate enough to postpone
a sortie, in order to let them return; but this we did not quite swallow.  After a day or two
they went into Paris again, and I then began to suspect that they were essaying the role of
mediators, and that Count Bismarck was feeding their vanity with permits, and receiving his
equivalent by learning the state of affairs within the beleaguered city.

From about the 1st of October on, the Germans were engaged in making their enveloping lines
impenetrable, bringing up their reserves, siege guns, and the like, the French meanwhile continuing
to drill and discipline the National Guard and relieving the monotony occasionally by a more
or less spirited, but invariably abortive, sortie.  The most notable of these was that made
by General Vinoy against the heights of Clamart, the result being a disastrous repulse by the
besiegers.  After this, matters settled down to an almost uninterrupted quietude, only a skirmish
here and there; and it being plain that the Germans did not intend to assault the capital,
but would accomplish its capture by starvation, I concluded to find out from Count Bismarck
about when the end was expected, with the purpose of spending the interim in a little tour
through some portions of Europe undisturbed by war, returning in season for the capitulation.
Count Bismarck having kindly advised me as to the possible date,

Forsyth and I, on the 14th of October, left Versailles, going first direct to the Chateau Ferrieres
to pay our respects to the King, which we did, and again took luncheon with him.  From the
chateau we drove to Meaux, and there spent the night; resuming our journey next morning, we
passed through Epernay, Rheims, and Rethel to Sedan, where we tarried a day, and finally, on
October 18, reached Brussels.

CHAPTER XX.

BRUSSELS--DECIDING TO VISIT EASTERN EUROPE--AUSTRIA--DOWN THE DANUBE --IN CONSTANTINOPLE--THE
LADIES OF THE HAREM--THE SULTAN--TURKISH SOLDIERS--A BANQUET--A VISIT IN ATHENS--KING GEORGE
OF GREECE--VICTOR EMMANUEL--"BEDEVILED WITH CARES OF STATE"--DEER SHOOTING--A MILITARY DINNER--RETURN
TO VERSAILLES--GERMANS ENTERING PARIS--CRITICISM ON THE FRANCO-PRUSSIAN WAR--CONCLUSION.

On reaching Brussels, one of the first things to do was to pay my respects to the King of Belgium,
which I did, accompanied by our Minister, Mr. Russell Jones.  Later I dined with the King and
Queen, meeting at the dinner many notable people, among them the Count and Countess of Flanders.
A day or two in Brussels sufficed to mature our plans for spending the time up to the approximate
date of our return to Paris; and deciding to visit eastern Europe, we made Vienna our first
objective, going there by way of Dresden.

At Vienna our Minister, Mr. John Jay, took charge of us--Forsyth was still with me--and the
few days' sojourn was full of interest.  The Emperor being absent from the capital, we missed
seeing him; but the Prime Minister, Count von Beust, was very polite to us, and at his house
we had the pleasure of meeting at dinner Count Andrassy, the Prime Minister of Hungary.

From Vienna we went to Buda-Pesth, the Hungarian capital; and thence, in a I small, crowded,
and uncomfortable steamboat, down the Danube to Rustchuck, whence we visited Bucharest--all
who travel in eastern Europe do so--and then directing our course southward, we went first
to Varna, and from that city by steamer through the Black Sea to Constantinople.

We reached the Turkish capital at the time of Ramadan, the period of the year (about a month)
during which the Mohammedans are commanded by the Koran to keep a rigorous fast every day from
sunrise till sunset.  All the followers of the Prophet were therefore busy with their devotions--holding
a revival, as it were; hence there was no chance whatever to be presented to the Sultan, Abdul
Aziz, it being forbidden during the penitential season for him to receive unbelievers, or in
fact any one except the officials of his household.  However, the Grand Vizier brought me many
messages of welcome, and arranged that I should be permitted to see and salute his Serene Highness
on the Esplanade as he rode by on horseback to the mosque.

So, the second day after arrival, the Grand Vizier drove me in a barouche to the Esplanade,
where we took station about midway of its length an hour or so before the Sultan was to appear.
Shortly after we reached the Esplanade, carriages occupied by the women of the Sultan's harem
began to appear, coming out from the palace grounds and driving up and down the roadway.  Only
a few of the women were closely veiled, a majority of them wearing an apology for veiling,
merely a strip of white lace covering the forehead down to the eyebrows.  Some were yellow,
and some white-types of the Mongolian and Caucasian races.  Now and then a pretty face was
seen, rarely a beautiful one.  Many were plump, even to corpulence, and these were the closest
veiled, being considered the greatest beauties I presume, since with the Turk obesity is the
chief element of comeliness.  As the carriages passed along in review, every now and then an
occupant, unable or unwilling to repress her natural promptings, would indulge in a mild flirtation,
making overtures by casting demure side-glances, throwing us coquettish kisses, or waving strings
of amber beads with significant gestures, seeming to say: "Why don't you follow?"  But this
we could not do if we would, for the Esplanade throughout its entire length was lined with
soldiers, put there especially to guard the harem first, and later, the Sultan on his pilgrimage
to the mosque.

But as it was now time for His Serene Highness to make his appearance the carriages containing
his wives drove off into the palace grounds, which were inclosed by a high wall, leaving the
Esplanade wholly unencumbered except by the soldiers.  Down between the two ranks, which were
formed facing each other, came the Sultan on a white steed--a beautiful Arabian--and having
at his side his son, a boy about ten or twelve years old, who was riding a pony, a diminutive
copy of his father's mount, the two attended by a numerous body-guard, dressed in gorgeous
Oriental uniforms.  As the procession passed our carriage, I, as pre-arranged, stood up and
took off my hat, His Serene Highness promptly acknowledging the salute by raising his hand
to the forehead.  This was all I saw of him, yet I received every kindness at his hands, being
permitted to see many of his troops, to inspect all the ordnance, equipment, and other military
establishments about Constantinople, and to meet numbers of the high functionaries of the Empire.

Among other compliments tendered through his direction, and which I gladly accepted, was a
review of all the troops then in Stamboul --about 6,000--comprising infantry, cavalry, and
artillery.

They were as fine looking a body of soldiers as I ever saw--well armed and well clothed, the
men all large and of sturdy appearance.

After the review we attended a grand military dinner given by the Grand Vizier.  At the hour
set for this banquet we presented ourselves at the palace of the Grand Vizier, and being ushered
into a large drawing-room, found already assembled there the guests invited to meet us.  Some
few spoke French, and with these we managed to exchange an occasional remark; but as the greater
number stood about in silence, the affair, thus far, was undeniably a little stiff. Just before
the dinner was announced, all the Turkish officers went into an adjoining room, and turning
their faces to the east, prostrated themselves to the floor in prayer.  Then we were all conducted
to a large salon, where each being provided with a silver ewer and basin, a little ball of
highly perfumed soap and a napkin, set out on small tables, each guest washed his hands.  Adjacent
to this salon was the dining-room, or, rather, the banqueting room, a very large and artistically
frescoed hall, in the centre of which stood a crescent-shaped table, lighted with beautiful
silver candelabra, and tastefully decorated with flowers and fruits.  The viands were all excellent;
cooked, evidently, by a French chef, and full justice was done the dishes, especially by the
Turks, who, of course, had been fasting all day.

At the close of the banquet, which consisted of not less than fifteen courses, we withdrew
to a smoking-room, where the coffee was served and cigarettes and chibouks offered us--the
latter a pipe having a long flexible stem with an amber mouthpiece.  I chose the chibouk, and
as the stem of mine was studded with precious stones of enormous value, I thought I should
enjoy it the more; but the tobacco being highly flavored with some sort of herbs, my smoke
fell far short of my anticipations.  The coffee was delicious, however, and I found this to
be the case wherever I went in Constantinople, whether in making calls or at dinner, the custom
of offering coffee and tobacco on these occasions being universal.

The temptations to linger at Constantinople were many indeed, not the least being the delightful
climate; and as time pressed, we set out with much regret on the return journey, stopping a
few days at Athens, whence we made several short excursions into the interior. King George
and Queen Olga made our stay in Athens one of extreme interest and exceeding pleasure.  Throwing
aside all ceremony, they breakfasted and dined us informally, gave us a fine ball, and in addition
to these hospitalities showed us much personal attention, his Majesty even calling upon me,
and the Queen sending her children to see us at our hotel.

Of course we visited all that remained of the city's ancient civilization--the Acropolis, temples,
baths, towers, and the like; nor did we omit to view the spot where St. Paul once instructed
the Athenians in lessons of Christianity.  We traveled some little through the country districts
outside of Athens, and I noticed that the peasantry, in point of picturesqueness of dress and
color of complexion, were not unlike the gypsies we see at times in America. They had also
much of the same shrewdness, and, as far as I could learn, were generally wholly uneducated,
ignorant, indeed, except as to one subject--politics--which I was told came to them intuitively,
they taking to it, and a scramble for office, as naturally as a duck to water.  In fact, this
common faculty for politics seems a connecting link between the ancient and modern Greek.

Leaving Athens with the pleasantest recollections, we sailed for Messina, Sicily, and from
there went to Naples, where we found many old friends; among them Mr. Buchanan Reed, the artist
and poet, and Miss Brewster, as well as a score or more of others of our countrymen, then or
since distinguished, in art and letters at home and abroad.  We remained some days in Naples,
and during the time went to Pompeii to witness a special excavation among the ruins of the
buried city, which search was instituted on account of our visit. A number of ancient household
articles were dug up, and one, a terra cotta lamp bearing upon its crown in bas-relief the
legend of "Leda and the Swan," was presented to me as a souvenir of the occasion, though it
is usual for the Government to place in its museums everything of such value that is unearthed.

From Naples to Rome by rail was our next journey.  In the Eternal City we saw picture-galleries,
churches, and ruins in plenty, but all these have been so well described by hundreds of other
travelers that I shall not linger even to name them.  While at Rome we also witnessed an overflow
of the Tiber, that caused great suffering and destroyed much property.  The next stage of our
tour took us to Venice, then to Florence--the capital of Italy--for although the troops of
the King of Italy had taken possession of Rome the preceding September, the Government itself
had not yet removed thither.

At Florence, our Minister, Mr. Marsh, though suffering with a lame foot, took me in charge,
and in due course of time I was presented to King Victor-Emmanuel.  His Majesty received me
informally at his palace in a small, stuffy room--his office, no doubt--and an untidy one it
was too.  He wore a loose blouse and very baggy trousers; a comfortable suit, certainly, but
not at all conducing to an ideal kingliness of appearance.

His Majesty's hobby was hunting, and no sooner had I made my bow than he began a conversation
on that subject, thrusting his hands nearly up to the elbows into the pockets of his trousers.
He desired to learn about the large game of America, particularly the buffalo, and when I spoke
of the herds of thousands and thousands I had seen on the plains of western Kansas, he interrupted
me to bemoan the fate which kept him from visiting America to hunt, even going so far as to
say that "he didn't wish to be King of Italy, anyhow, but would much prefer to pass his days
hunting than be bedeviled with the cares of state." On one of his estates, near Pisa, he had
several large herds of deer, many wild boars, and a great deal of other game. Of this preserve
he was very proud, and before we separated invited me to go down there to shoot deer, adding
that he would be there himself if he could, but feared that a trip which he had to take to
Milan would interfere, though he wished me to go in any event.

I gladly accepted the invitation, and in two or three days was notified when I would be expected
at the estate.  At the designated time I was escorted to Pisa by an aide-de-camp, and from
there we drove the few miles to the King's chateau, where we fortified ourselves for the work
in hand by an elaborate and toothsome breakfast of about ten courses.  Then in a carriage we
set out for the King's stand in the hunting-grounds, accompanied by a crowd of mounted game-keepers,
who with great difficulty controlled the pack of sixty or seventy hounds, the dogs and keepers
together almost driving me to distraction with their yelping and yelling.  On reaching the
stand, I was posted within about twenty' yards of a long, high picket-fence, facing the fence
and covered by two trees very close together.  It was from behind these that the King usually
shot, and as I was provided with a double-barreled shot-gun, I thought I could do well, especially
since close in rear of me stood two game-keepers to load and hand me a second gun when the
first was emptied.

Meantime the huntsmen and the hounds had made a circuit of the park to drive up the game. 
The yelps of the hounds drawing near, I cautiously looked in the direction of the sound, and
the next moment saw a herd of deer close in to the fence, and coming down at full speed.  Without
a miss, I shot the four leading ones as they tried to run the gauntlet, for in passing between
the stand and the fence, the innocent creatures were not more than ten to fifteen paces from
me.  At the fourth I stopped, but the gamekeepers insisted on more butchery, saying, "No one
but the King ever did the like" (I guess no one else had ever had the chance), so, thus urged,
I continued firing till I had slaughtered eleven with eleven shots--an easy task with a shot-gun
and buckshot cartridges.

The "hunt" being ended--for with this I had had enough, and no one else was permitted to do
any shooting--the aide-decamp directed the game to be sent to me in Florence, and we started
for the chateau. On the way back I saw a wild boar the first and only one I ever saw --my attention
being drawn to him by cries from some of the game-keepers.  There was much commotion, the men
pointing out the game and shouting excitedly, "See the wild boar!" otherwise I should not have
known what was up, but now, looking in the indicated direction, I saw scudding over the plain
what appeared to me to be nothing but a halfgrown black pig, or shoat.  He was not in much
of a hurry either, and gave no evidence of ferocity, yet it is said that this insignificant
looking animal is dangerous when hunted with the spear --the customary way.  After an early
dinner at the chateau we returned to Florence, and my venison next day arriving, it was distributed
among my American friends in the city.

Shortly after the hunt the King returned from Milan, and then honored me with a military dinner,
his Majesty and all the guests, numbering eighty, appearing in full uniform.  The banqueting
hall was lighted with hundreds of wax candles, there was a profusion of beautiful flowers,
and to me the scene altogether was one of unusual magnificence.  The table service was entirely
of gold--the celebrated set of the house of Savoy--and behind the chair of each guest stood
a servant in powdered wig and gorgeous livery of red plush.  I sat at the right of the King,
who--his hands resting on his sword, the hilt of which glittered with jewels--sat through the
hour and a half at table without once tasting food or drink, for it was his rule to eat but
two meals in twenty-four hours--breakfast at noon, and dinner at midnight.  The King remained
silent most of the time, but when he did speak, no matter on what subject, he inevitably drifted
back to hunting.  He never once referred to the Franco-Prussian war, nor to the political situation
in his own country, then passing through a crisis.  In taking leave of his Majesty I thanked
him with deep gratitude for honoring me so highly, and his response was that if ever he came
to America to hunt buffalo, he should demand my assistance.

From Florence I went to Milan and Geneva, then to Nice, Marseilles, and Bordeaux.  Assembled
at Bordeaux was a convention which had been called together by the government of the National
Defense for the purpose of confirming or rejecting the terms of an armistice of twenty-one
days, arranged between Jules Favre and Count Bismarck in negotiations begun at Versailles the
latter part of January.  The convention was a large body, chosen from all parts of France,
and was unquestionably the most noisy, unruly and unreasonable set of beings that I ever saw
in a legislative assembly.  The frequent efforts of Thiers, Jules Favre, and other leading
men to restrain the more impetuous were of little avail.  When at the sittings a delegate arose
to speak on some question, he was often violently pulled to his seat and then surrounded by
a mob of his colleagues, who would throw off their coats and gesticulate wildly, as though
about to fight.

But the bitter pill of defeat had to be swallowed in some way, so the convention delegated
M. Thiers to represent the executive power of the country, with authority to construct a ministry
three commissioners were appointed by the Executive, to enter into further negotiations with
Count Bismarck at Versailles and arrange a peace, the terms of which, however, were to be submitted
to the convention for final action.  Though there had been so much discussion, it took but
a few days to draw up and sign a treaty at Versailles, the principal negotiators being Thiers
and Jules Favre for France, and Bismarck on the part of the Germans.  The terms agreed upon
provided for the occupation of Paris till ratification should be had by the convention at Bordeaux;
learning of which stipulation from our Minister, Mr. Washburn, I hurried off to Paris to see
the conquerors make their triumphal entry.

In the city the excitement was at fever heat, of course; the entire population protesting with
one voice that they would never, never look upon the hated Germans marching through their beloved
city.  No! when the day arrived they would hide themselves in their houses, or shut their eyes
to such a hateful sight.  But by the 1st of March a change had come over the fickle Parisians,
for at an early hour the sidewalks were jammed with people, and the windows and doors of the
houses filled with men, women, and children eager to get a look at the conquerors.  Only a
few came in the morning, however--an advance-guard of perhaps a thousand cavalry and infantry.
The main column marched from the Arc-de-Triomphe toward the middle of the afternoon. In its
composition it represented United Germany--Saxons, Bavarians, and the Royal Guard of Prussia--and,
to the strains of martial music, moving down the Champ Elysees to the Place de la Concorde,
was distributed thence over certain sections of the city agreed upon beforehand.  Nothing that
could be called a disturbance took place during the march; and though there was a hiss now
and then and murmurings of discontent, yet the most noteworthy mutterings were directed against
the defunct Empire.  Indeed, I found everywhere that the national misfortunes were laid at
Napoleon's door--he, by this time, having become a scapegoat for every blunder of the war.

The Emperor William (he had been proclaimed German Emperor at Versailles the 18th of January)
did not accompany his troops into Paris, though he reviewed them at Long Champs before they
started. After the occupation of the city he still remained at Versailles, and as soon as circumstances
would permit, I repaired to the Imperial headquarters to pay my respects to his Majesty under
his new title and dignities, and to say good-bye.

Besides the Emperor, the only persons I me at Versailles were General von Moltke and Bismarck.
His Majesty was in a very agreeable frame of mind, and as bluff and hearty as usual.  His increased
rank and power had effected no noticeable change of any kind in him, and by his genial and
cordial ways he made me think that my presence with the German army had contributed to his
pleasure.  Whether this was really so or not, I shall always believe it true, for his kind
words and sincere manner could leave no other conclusion.

General von Moltke was, as usual, quiet and reserved, betraying not the slightest consciousness
of his great ability, nor the least indication of pride on account of his mighty work.  I say
this advisedly, for it is an undoubted fact that it was his marvelous mind that perfected the
military system by which 800,000 men were mobilized with unparalleled celerity and moved with
such certainty of combination that, in a campaign of seven months, the military power of France
was destroyed and her vast resources sorely crippled.

I said good-bye to Count Bismarck, also, for at that busy time the chances of seeing him again
were very remote.  The great Chancellor manifested more joy over the success of the Germans
than did anyone else at the Imperial headquarters.  Along with his towering strength of mind
and body, his character partook of much of the enthusiasm and impulsiveness commonly restricted
to younger men, and now in his frank, free way be plainly showed his light-heartedness and
gratification at success.  That which for years his genius had been planning and striving for--permanent
unification of the German States, had been accomplished by the war.  It had welded them together
in a compact Empire which no power in Europe could disrupt, and as such a union was the aim
of Bismarck's life, he surely had a right to feel jubilant.

Thanks to the courtesies extended me, I had been able to observe the principal battles, and
study many of the minor details of a war between two of the greatest military nations of the
world, and to examine critically the methods followed abroad for subsisting, equipping, and
manoeuvring vast bodies of men during a stupendous, campaign.  Of course I found a great deal
to interest and instruct me, yet nowadays war is pretty much the same everywhere, and this
one offered no marked exception to my previous experiences.  The methods pursued on the march
were the same as we would employ, with one most important exception.  Owing to the density
of population throughout France it was always practicable for the Germans to quarter their
troops in villages, requiring the inhabitants to subsist both officers and men.  Hence there
was no necessity for camp and garrison equipage, nor enormous provision trains, and the armies
were unencumbered by these impedimenta, indispensable when operating in a poor and sparsely
settled country.  As I have said before, the only trains were those for ammunition, pontoon-boats,
and the field telegraph, and all these were managed by special corps.  If transportation was
needed for other purposes, it was obtained by requisition from the invaded country, just as
food and forage were secured.  Great celerity of combination was therefore possible, the columns
moving in compact order, and as all the roads were broad and macadamized, there was little
or nothing to delay or obstruct the march of the Germans, except when their enemy offered resistance,
but even this was generally slight and not very frequent, for the French were discouraged by
disaster from the very outset of the campaign

The earlier advantages gained by the Germans may be ascribed to the strikingly prompt mobilization
of their armies, one of the most noticeable features of their perfect military system, devised
by almost autocratic power; their later successes were greatly aided by the blunders of the
French, whose stupendous errors materially shortened the war, though even if prolonged it could,
in my opinion, have had ultimately no other termination.

As I have previously stated, the first of these blunders was the acceptance of battle by MacMahon
at Worth; the second in attaching too much importance to the fortified position of Metz, resulting
in three battles Colombey, Mars-la-Tour, and Gravelotte--all of which were lost; and the third,
the absurd movement of MacMahon along the Belgian frontier to relieve Metz, the responsibility
for which, I am glad to say, does not belong to him.

With the hemming in of Bazaine at Metz and the capture of MacMahon's army at Sedan the crisis
of the war was passed, and the Germans practically the victors.  The taking of Paris was but
a sentiment --the money levy could have been made and the Rhine provinces held without molesting
that city, and only the political influences consequent upon the changes in the French Government
caused peace to be deferred.

I did not have much opportunity to observe the German cavalry, either on the march or in battle.
The only time I saw any of it engaged was in the unfortunate charge at Gravelotte.  That proved
its mettle good and discipline fair, but answered no other purpose.  Such of it as was not
attached to the infantry was organized in divisions, and operated in accordance with the old
idea of covering the front and flanks of the army, a duty which it thoroughly performed.  But
thus directed it was in no sense an independent corps, and hence cannot be, said to have accomplished
anything in the campaign, or have had a weight or influence at all proportionate to its strength.
The method of its employment seemed to me a mistake, for, being numerically superior to the
French cavalry, had it been massed and manoeuvred independently of the infantry, it could easily
have broken up the French communications, and done much other work of weighty influence in
the prosecution of the war.

The infantry was as fine as I ever saw, the men young and hardy in appearance, and marching
always with an elastic stride.  The infantry regiment, however, I thought too large--too many
men for a colonel to command unless he has the staff of a general--but this objection may be
counterbalanced by the advantages resulting from associating together thus intimately the men
from the same district, or county as we would call it; the celerity of mobilization, and, in
truth, the very foundation of the German system, being based on this local or territorial scheme
of recruiting.

There was no delay when the call sounded for the march; all turned out promptly, and while
on the road there was very little straggling, only the sick falling out.  But on such fine,
smooth roads, and with success animating the men from the day they struck the first blow, it
could hardly be expected that the columns would not keep well closed up.  I think that under
the same circumstances our troops would have done as well as the Germans, marched as admirably,
made combinations as quickly and accurately, and fought with as much success.

Following the operations of the German armies from the battle of Gravelotte to the siege of
Paris, I may, in conclusion, say that I saw no new military principles developed, whether of
strategy or grand tactics, the movements of the different armies and corps being dictated and
governed by the same general laws that have so long obtained, simplicity of combination and
manoeuvre, and the concentration of a numerically superior force at the vital point.

After my brief trip to Versailles, I remained in Paris till the latter part of March.  In company
with Mr. Washburn, I visited the fortifications for the defense of the city, and found them
to be exceptionally heavy; so strong, indeed, that it would have been very hard to carry the
place by a general assault.  The Germans, knowing the character of the works, had refrained
from the sacrifice of life that such an attempt must entail, though they well knew that many
of the forts were manned by unseasoned soldiers.  With only a combat here and there, to tighten
their lines or repulse a sortie, they wisely preferred to wait till starvation should do the
work with little loss and absolute certainty.

The Germans were withdrawn from Paris on the 3d of March, and no sooner were they gone than
factional quarrels, which had been going on at intervals ever since the flight of the Empress
and the fall of her regency on the 4th of September, were renewed with revolutionary methods
that eventually brought about the Commune.  Having witnessed one or two of these outbreaks,
and concluding that while such turbulence reigned in the city it would be of little profit
for me to tarry there, I decided to devote the rest of the time I could be away from home to
travel in England, Ireland, and Scotland.  My journeys through those countries were full of
pleasure and instruction, but as nothing I saw or did was markedly different from what has
been so often described by others, I will save the reader this part of my experience.  I returned
to America in the fall, having been absent a little more than a year, and although I saw much
abroad of absorbing interest, both professional and general, yet I came back to my native land
with even a greater love for her, and with increased admiration for her institutions.

