'Yes, go, my man,' said Dr. Campbell; 'and you may bring Bob in if you like, just to take a
turn round the garden; but don't encourage him to stay.'

'Oh, and mayn't we give him Geroldinga's apple?' said Duncan; but the Doctor answered, laughing,
'that that would be anything but a benevolent present, and that Geroldinga's solitary fruit
had better be allowed to ripen.'

'I shan't take it,' said Archie, thus innocently revealing, what was indeed the case, that
he felt some temptation to do so.

'Nor baby won't,' said Georgie manfully.

'No, my little boys will not touch what is not their own,' said the mother, glancing down tenderly
at the two small faces; 'and some summer, perhaps, we may find Gozmaringa and the rest covered
with apples, and then what apple dumplings we shall have!'

Archie's broad smile told that he relished the idea. Georgie, to whom apple dumplings were
as yet an unknown delicacy, looked grave and asked, 'Is appy dumpions nice?'

'Very,' said the laughing mamma. 'But see, here is Bob coming this way. Well, Bob, what do
you think of my sons' work?'

'It's fust-rate,' said Bob, pulling his rough forelock. 'I hopes you finds yourself better, mum.'

'Much better, thank you, and very glad to be out again. I have been watching the hay-making
in Farmer Jennings' field from my window; I was very glad to see you at work there, Bob.'

Bob made an indescribable contortion of his figure, charitably supposed to be intended for
a bow, and passed on.

'Madam looks palish,' he observed to Johnnie, who was escorting him about; 'I doubt she's not
very hearty yet.'

'No, it'll be some time before she's quite strong. Has she ever spoken to you before, Bob?'

'Oh my! yes. Why, she brought me some doctor's stuff and some sweet cold drink when I was so
bad with fever two winters ago, and she took and spoke up to me last autumn when I was throwin'
stones at parson's chickens. Besides, I've seen her in the school when I was a little chap.'
He was evidently proud of his acquaintance with so sweet-spoken and kind a lady, and when he
left the garden with the jacket under his arm, remarked, 'I'll make a bigger haycock than e'er
a one else in the field right under madam's window, that'll pleasure her, maybe, for it smells
fust-rate, it does.'

He fulfilled his intention, and pleased Farmer Jennings so much by his cheerful industry in
the hay-field, that he took him on trial for a month as farm-lad, and finding him tolerably
satisfactory in that capacity, gave him permanent employment. His impudence was not at once
conquered, and brought him into some trouble; but when he found that the farmer and his men
would not put up with it as his mother had, he learned to put a check on it, and others besides
the seven Campbells encouraged him in taking a turn for the better.

Johnnie still remained 'sans terre,' by his own desire, but worked away in his father's garden
as he never had done in the part that was called his own. He began to get on better at school
too; and Willie joined him there after the summer vacation, and helped to keep him steady by
his example and admonitions. For Willie had certainly a little taste for lecturing; and Lackland,
the harum-scarum and good-humoured, was just the boy both to provoke it and to bear it: if
he was a Du Guesclin in bravery, he was not in quarrelsomeness, and nothing that Willie could
say ever made him angry. The mother, too, became well and strong again, able once more to exercise
her sweet influence through all the household; and between the father's firmness and the mother's
gentleness, those seven boys were well and wisely trained.

       *       *       *       *       *

Many years have passed since then, and the seven Campbells are no longer boys Honorius has
been taken into partnership with his father, and is known by the whole country-side as 'the
young doctor;' Johnnie is serving the Queen in a line regiment in India; and Willie has lately
been ordained, and is working hard as a curate in a large manufacturing town. So three of the
seven have had their wish. But Seymour has been taken by one of his uncles, a rich banker,
into his counting-house; Duncan is not gone to sea,--he has just passed a competitive examination
for the Indian Civil Service; as for Archie, he is still only a schoolboy, and he and Honorius
live at home, while the others are scattered far and wide.

But nowhere on earth could you find all those seven Campbells now, and there has never been
any need to decide on a profession for Georgie: the youngest, the darling, the flower of the
flock, has been called to rest the first. Wide tracts of sea and land lie between the mother
and her darling Johnnie, and a wider distance still severs her from her little George, yet
to her the seven are but as one band, united for ever by a common faith and mutual love. And
so much is this the feeling of them all, that if you should chance to meet one of those Campbells,
and to ask of their number, I think, like the child in the ballad, he would answer, 'We are Seven.'

CECIL'S MEMORABLE WEEK.

CHAPTER I.

THE SENTENCE.

IT would be hard to find a pleasanter family group than that which had gathered round the tea-table
at Wilbourne Rectory one hot bright evening in the end of July: a kindly-looking mother, with
a dark, sweet, brunette face, that would not be careworn spite of forty years of life, seven
children, and a slender purse; a tall, slight, brown-bearded father, a little bald, and with
deep lines of thought on the broad forehead and around the rather sunken blue eyes; a fair,
round-faced girl of fifteen, sitting next him; two smaller lasses, with long black hair almost
straight, clear brown complexions, and a bit of bright scarlet bloom on each cheek, that was
just like the mother's, only fresher and less fixed; a little curly-haired lad of eight, that
was like nobody in particular; and last, but not least, a Sandhurst cadet, a well-grown youth
of seventeen, with dark hair, cut very short in military style, and a little dark down on cheek
and lip, which he called whiskers and moustaches. He sat on one side of his mother, and on
the other sat a person who was not a member of the family--Mr. Cunningham's curate, a great
big broad-shouldered young man, six feet three at least in height, with a pleasant, open face,
rather sun-burnt, and the most good-tempered smile that you can possibly conceive.

Two of the children of the house were absent--the second son, a midshipman in the Queen's service,
who was now on his way to Japan; and the third, who was expected home this very evening from
school.

A little talk sprang up about him among his brothers and sisters, begun by a 'wonder' from
one of the little girls as to when he would arrive; and strange to say, at the mention of his
name, the lines on the father's brow deepened a little, and Mrs. Cunningham's face took for
a moment quite a sorrowful expression.

'I almost hope he will not come till tea is over,' she said.

It did not sound like a motherly sentiment, but it was spoken out of the depths of a true motherly
feeling.

Cecil Cunningham was coming home in a kind of disgrace. He had been placed at a good grammar
school in the county town, some fourteen miles from Wilbourne, had won for himself an 'exhibition,'
as it was called, by which the greater part of his school expenses were defrayed, and would
have been allowed to keep it till he went to college had his progress during the first year
been sufficiently good. But, alas! it had just been discovered that the marks he had gained
for his various studies throughout this time did not, when counted up, amount to the rather
high total which the founder's will required; and so it had been announced to him and his parents
that he had forfeited the 'exhibition,' and could not be received at the school again unless
his father were prepared to pay the full terms, which, though not very high, happened to be
more than Mr. Cunningham could justly afford. The middy had lately been fitted out for sea.
The son at Sandhurst was a considerable expense; and though it was hoped that after another
six months he would succeed in getting a commission without purchase, there would be his outfit
and yearly allowance to provide; and altogether, Mr. Cunningham did not see his way to giving
Cecil such advantages as he could wish, without the help of that 'exhibition' which the boy
had just lost by his own fault.

Cecil was very clever, and, though rather idle by nature, had promised to work hard at school,
and had been supposed to be conscientious enough to be sure to keep his word. He greatly wished
to be a clergyman; and this desire of his had been an intense joy to his father, who, though
a good deal disappointed at his two elder sons choosing army and navy, had consoled himself
with the thought that one at least of his children had a real desire for the priesthood, and
this the very one whose talents best fitted him for a university education. From school he
was to have gone to Oxford; and his whole prospects had seemed fair enough till now, so that
it was not wonderful that the unexpected news of his failure had occasioned great disappointment
at the Rectory. His father was much displeased with him, and meant that he should feel how
great a fault his idleness had been; and his mother, who knew this, and believed that her boy
was already feeling it, was anxious that the first meeting should be got over without the presence
of spectators.

But just as she spoke, Cecil, followed by the gardener wheeling his luggage in a barrow, was
seen coming up the gravel walk towards the house.

The little curly-haired boy rushed off at once to meet him,--not to open the hall door, for
that stood wide open already,--but a restraining look from the mother stopped the girls, who
were rising also; and when Cecil came in, the greetings were very quiet, though not in the
least cold, except perhaps on Mr. Cunningham's part. Cecil had his mother's face, at once dark
and bright, with brown clear eyes that looked full of intelligence, and, alas! seemed to say
that their owner might have kept his place in the school with ease had he but so chosen. He
did not seem very conscious or very miserable: he had the true boyish instinct of hiding feelings,
and looked much as usual, though there was nothing like bravado or nonchalance in his manner.
When his father shook hands with him gravely, and merely said, 'Well, Cecil,' in a short dry
way, a sudden flush mounted up in his brown cheek; and there was a little anxiety in his face
when he turned to kiss his mother, as if a sudden fear had come over him that she might refuse
the caress. But she did not; and he sat down calmly enough to his bread and butter, showing
a very tolerable schoolboy appetite, and munching away rather quickly when he found that the
others were near the end of their meal. His sisters and his little brother volunteered some
information about his rabbits, and so on; but when they began to ask questions concerning his
schoolfellows, their father said quietly, 'Let Cecil have his tea,' and began a conversation
about politics with the curate, in which none of the juniors ventured to join except the cadet.

When they rose from the table, the two gentlemen went off to the study; and with a sigh of
relief one of the little girls exclaimed, 'Oh, now you can come and see the rabbits, Cecil;
father won't want you!'

Cecil glanced at his mother; but though she was longing for a good hug and a little private
talk, she thought it better to refrain just then, and said gently, 'Yes, you can go with Jessie,
but don't go out of earshot;' after which she turned away and went up-stairs.

Jessie, who was just a year younger than Cecil, was his special friend and ally, and the other
long-haired lassie considerately left them together, and went off to do some gardening; while
little Lewis followed at a respectful distance, not able to tear himself quite away from Cecil,
and yet not presuming to interrupt the confidential talk between him and his sister.

The rabbit hutch was in a little yard not far from the house, and within view, as it happened,
of the study window. Cecil stroked the soft creatures' ears, and fondled them a little, and
fed them with some cabbage leaves with which Jessie supplied him; but his manner was rather
absent, and presently he said abruptly, 'I say, Jessie, isn't it an awful shame?'

Jessie was not prepared for this view of the question.

'I am so sorry,' she said doubtfully. 'I never once thought of its happening till Dr. Lomax's
letter came; for you know, Cecil, you told me you meant to work. Oh! don't you remember saying
it here, in this very place, when you were making the new bars to Lop-ear's hutch?'

'Well, and I did,' said Cecil gruffly.

'Yes, I know you did; and that made me think you would do it.'

'Well, so I did do it--that's what I mean' said he more gruffly still.

'Did work!' exclaimed she gladly, and quite ready of belief, with the tender trustfulness of
a true sister. 'But oh, then, Cecil how was it that they didn't give you marks enough? I thought
you would have lots to spare--I did indeed!'

'Humbug!' said Cecil, but not gruffly now; 'it's not so easy to get marks as all that. I was
quite sure of having enough, though--so sure that I hadn't a second thought about it; and I
can't tell to this moment how it was I didn't, except that Lomax is such a brute!'

'The Doctor!'

'No--his son, the junior master; it was he who counted up the marks.'

'Do you mean the marks you got at the examination?'

'No, the weekly marks I had got in all my studies during the half-year; that's the way they
calculate to see whether one may keep the "exhibition."'

'Do you think he can have made any mistake?'

'He might, perhaps, to spite me; it's not likely otherwise, for he's a dab at arithmetic. I
asked the Doctor to let me see the book, but he wouldn't; and of course I couldn't tell him
what I thought, and it would have been no use if I had.'

'And you did really work all the time?' said Jessie, looking at him tenderly and seriously
out of her big black eyes.

'Well, almost all--not quite the last week or two, perhaps: it was awfully hot weather, and
being so sure, I thought I might take it easy; but that couldn't have made the difference.'

'I wish you had been able to say you worked quite all the time,' said Jessie gravely, with
a little sigh, 'for then father couldn't have been angry.'

'I'm afraid he's awfully vexed, isn't he?' said Cecil, with rather an anxious glance towards
the study.

'I think so; and Percy says' (Percy was the cadet) 'that he doesn't know how to manage about
your education. Francie and I have been so anxious about it: it would be too dreadful if you
were not to be a clergyman, wouldn't it, Cecil?'

Cecil said nothing, but absently doled out the last cabbage leaf to the rabbits in such small
morsels, that they nibbled at his fingers as if they thought those part of the provender. Jessie
was lost in a calculation of whether if Frances and she were to have no new frocks for a twelvemonth,
and to save up all their pocket-money, that would make it possible for Cecil to go back to
the grammar school, when Mr. Cunningham leaned out of the study window and called him.

Though he had been expecting the summons, he started and coloured violently, but ran off at
once, going in by the back door, which was the nearest way.

Jessie went into a little tool-shed, which was close to the rabbits' dwelling-place. She did
not like to watch the window, but was too anxious to be able to go and help Francie with her
gardening, or to play with Lewis, who was wandering aimlessly about. 'Father,' who was so tender
to his little girls, who was the very very best man, as Jessie believed, in the whole world,
could nevertheless be very severe when he saw occasion--could reprove in a way which an offender
was not likely to forget. He had wonderful patience for the blunders of little Lewis, who was
rather dull, and found lessons a daily difficulty; but he had always expected much more of
Cecil, who was really full of ability, and had sometimes dealt seriously with his fits of idleness
in the days of his home teaching. And now--now when the boy had failed just when every principle
of duty should have made him exert himself to the utmost--what could be looked for? Oh, what
a bitter half-hour this must be to Cecil!

Yes, for half an hour passed, and still Cecil did not come back. Jessie's fright and agitation
were growing very hard to bear. 'Oh I know it is right!' she said, clasping her hands together;
'I know we must be scolded and punished for our faults; only I wish it was me, and not Cecil.
And, after all, I think there must have been some mistake, for he says he did work; and if
father could only believe it, I am sure he wouldn't be angry, even though Cecil has lost his
place in school! Oh, I wish it could be made clear somehow! I know! I will ask God to make
it clear.' And then the little girl prayed to the heavenly Father, whom the earthly father
had taught her to seek in all her troubles.

Eight o'clock struck, and she started to her feet.

'Oh! I must go in and do my work--I shall only just be able to finish it before bed-time. Father
must have gone to the choir practice. I wonder if he has taken Cecil with him, and if that
is the reason why he hasn't come back?'

With a deep-drawn breath of relief at this possibility, she ran into the house, and meeting
her eldest brother in the hall, hastily inquired if he knew what had become of Cecil.

'He's in his room, I think,' was the answer. 'Poor little beggar! I fancied I heard him sobbing,
and wanted to go in, but he wouldn't let me. I've just been telling Mary, that if I don't succeed
in getting my commission without purchase I shall enlist as a private, and never come home
at all. I couldn't stand seeing you all look as glum about me as you do about Cecil.'

'Oh, but, Percy, would that be--' began little Jessie in consternation; and then he laughed,
and she saw that he was joking.

'Mother's been looking for you,' he said as she turned towards the staircase; 'she wants you
to do some work.'

'Where's father?'

'Gone to the choir practice a quarter of an hour ago. Good-bye; I'm going out for a stroll.
Try and cheer up that poor little chap; perhaps he'll let you in, as you're his chum.'

Jessie longed to try that moment, but she knew she was due at her needle-work, and very unwillingly
went into the drawing-room, where her mother and sisters were sitting round a lamp-lit table,
stitching away very busily at a new set of shirts for Percy.

'I was looking for you, Jessie,' said the mother in her pleasant voice; 'come and work at double
speed, to make up for lost time.'

Jessie had never felt less disposed to work; but when Mrs. Cunningham made room for her, and
gave her the seam she was to do, with a kindly sympathy in tone and glance that seemed to say
she knew just what the little girl was feeling, though she wasn't going to talk about it, all
her unwillingness melted away. 'Mother is sad too,' she thought. 'I won't do anything to vex
her;' and so she worked away as neatly and diligently as she could till nine o'clock, which
was her bed-time.

'I may go to Cecil before I go to bed, mother, mayn't I?' she whispered as she was bidding
good-night.

Mrs. Cunningham gave permission, and Jessie rushed up-stairs two steps at a time, but controlled
herself to give a very gentle tap at Cecil's door. It must have been too gentle, for he took
no notice of it; but in answer to another, rather louder, came the question, 'Is it you, Jessie?'
And when he found it was, he opened the door, which was locked, and let her in.

He seemed to have been unpacking, for his little portmanteau was open on the floor, and some
of his clothes and other possessions were strewn upon the bed and the one chair, which was
the only seat that the little attic could boast; but he was flushed, and his eyes were red,
as if he had been crying, and he turned away abruptly from his sister when he had let her in,
and began to dive into the portmanteau again.

'Can't I help you?' said she, not knowing well how to begin her task of comfort. 'I'll fold
up the clothes and put them in the drawers, while you take out the books. Oh! perhaps you meant
to leave them in, though. You won't want them for the holidays?'

'Pretty holidays!' said Cecil passionately, more to himself than to her. 'A single week!'

'I don't understand,' she rejoined in consternation. 'You're not going back to school in a
week, surely?'

'I'm not going back to Eastwood at all, but I'm going to a horrid, odious, beastly little day
school in Fairview;' and Cecil flung out some books upon the floor, in a manner which did not
bespeak very exemplary submission to his father's decrees.

The information itself, and Cecil's terrible adjectives, both dismayed Jessie, and for a minute
or two she did not speak. Then she said, 'But surely there must be holidays at the day school too?'

'They're just over--they began in June. Of course those sort of places don't break up at the
same time as the public schools, like we do,' said Cecil with wrathful contempt.

'And must you begin when the school does?'

'I've got to--that's all; it's to be my punishment, father says,--just as if losing the exhibition
were not punishment enough!' And he buried his face in the portmanteau to hide his tears.

Jessie came over to him and hugged him; and he didn't seem to mind, though she could only kiss
the side of his cheek and his shirt collar, for the greater part of his face was hidden among
the books.

'Did you tell him you worked nearly all the time?' she faltered in an unsteady voice.

'I began to say something, and he asked me if I could honestly say I had done my very best,
and I couldn't quite say that, you know, and then he wouldn't hear any more. And oh, I'm sure
he thinks I did nothing but idle my time away!'

'Did you tell him you thought there must be some mistake?'

'I said something about Lomax spiting me, but he wouldn't listen to that.'

'Oh no,' said Jessie, who readily understood that her father would never admit that explanation
of the affair. 'Oh, Cecil, I am so sorry, so very sorry!'

'If I had really been idle,' said Cecil, raising up his tear-wet face, more crimson than ever
from its sojourn in the box, 'then I shouldn't care--I mean, it would only be fair that I should
be served out for it; but when I haven't--when I have tried all this year--oh!----' and he
was nearly choked by the sobs which, in his desire to be manly, he was struggling to repress.

Jessie believed him entirely, and was grieved to the very heart. 'I am so sorry,' she repeated.
'But, dear Cecil, God knows; He sees you have been trying; He isn't angry with you.'

'Then why does He let this happen?' said Cecil fiercely.

Jessie was startled and shocked, and had no answer ready. 'I don't know,' she said at last,
through her tears; 'I can't tell why, but He is so good--oh, He is so good!--perhaps it will
all come right still. I will ask Him; and you will, won't you, Cecil? Isn't there something
in the Bible about its being acceptable with God, if we do well and suffer for it?'

'Yes; but I'm not suffering because I've done well, but because I'm supposed to have done ill,'
said Cecil gloomily. 'There's no good talking, Jessie; you'd better go to bed.'

'Perhaps I had,' said Jessie, a sudden thought striking her as she heard her father's voice
in the passage below; 'but I can't bear to leave you, Cecil. I am so sorry, and I do love you so!'

He half returned her tender, sorrowful hug; and then she ran away, but not straight to her
own room. She darted down one flight of stairs, and caught hold of her father, who had come
in from the practice, and had been washing his hands before going to supper.

'Father,' she said breathlessly, 'please let me say it: Cecil has been working--he has indeed.
Oh, I am sure you would believe it if you had heard what he said to me just now!'

Mr. Cunningham did not draw himself away from the detaining clasp, but he said gravely, 'I
quite believe that Cecil does not think he has been so very idle, but he admits that he has
not done his best, and I hope in a little while he will see all his fault, and be sorry for
it. Don't let him talk to you any more to-night.'

'But don't you think there may have been some mistake?'

'No, indeed,' he answered in a surprised tone, which showed that no such supposition had ever
entered his head.

Then, as she still lingered, he stooped to kiss her, and said kindly, 'Don't try to comfort
Cecil with such an idea as that, my child, but see if you can encourage him to do his best
for the future.'

'And--father,' she said timidly, 'is he really only to have a week's holiday?'

'Yes,' said Mr. Cunningham in his most decided tone; then more gently he added, 'I am afraid
that is punishing you as well as him, but it can't be helped; and as he is only going to a
day school, you will not lose him entirely.'

Remembering the adjectives Cecil had heaped upon the day school, Jessie could not feel this
to be quite consolatory; but she only said 'Good-night, father,' and held up her face for another
kiss, which was given very tenderly.

Poor little girl! there was a great deal of grief and perplexity in her heart that night; but
the comfort was, that though she so pitied Cecil, she did not distrust the goodness of either
the heavenly or the earthly father. She could not see the why and wherefore of it all; but
when she had said her prayers, she laid herself down to sleep trustfully and patiently, while
Cecil was tossing and tumbling about, feeling as if everybody except Jessie were against him.

CHAPTER II.

A BACHELOR'S LUNCH.

THE bells were ringing for Sunday Morning Prayer at Wilbourne Church, and the congregation
was pouring in at the large west door, and the choir boys taking the little path towards the
vestry, when Mr. Yorke, the tall curate, opened the small side gate, which was his nearest
entrance to the churchyard.

He was passing quickly along, when he caught sight of a boy leaning over the paling a little
beyond the gate, in rather a disconsolate attitude; and first he paused for a minute, and then
struck across the grass and laid his hand kindly on the boy's shoulder.

'Come in with me, Cecil,' he said in his most cheery tone--knowing that the lad usually formed
one of the choir when at home, and thinking that his ill success at school had made him shy
of facing the other choristers, who probably knew all about it by this time.

'No, I mustn't,' said Cecil, turning round abruptly and colouring very much.

Mr. Yorke was surprised, and showed it. Knowing that Cecil's general conduct at school had
been very good, he had not thought that exclusion from the choir would have formed part of
his punishment.

'It's not because of that,' said the boy, reading his thoughts in his open, kindly face, 'at
least not of that alone; it's because I don't say I'm sorry, and behave as I'm expected to
behave. But oh, if father knew----'

He broke off and turned his face away; but Mr. Yorke, who liked the boy well, and had one of
those sympathetic natures that can feel for everybody's troubles, was touched by the bitter,
hopeless tone.

'Suppose you come home with me after service, and spend the rest of the day with me,' said
he, feeling it might really do the boy good to have his Sunday free from the sort of atmosphere
of disgrace which he felt or fancied surrounded him at home.

He could see that Cecil caught at the notion, by the eager way in which he looked up; though
the answer was,

'Thank you; but perhaps father wouldn't like it.'

'I don't think he will mind; I'll ask him myself. Don't suppose I'm inviting you to any great
treat: cold mutton and bread and marmalade are about all that I have to offer. I don't like
to keep my landlady from church.'

'Oh, thanks,' said Cecil, laughing, not at all as if the prospect alarmed him; and Mr. Yorke
laughed too, and saying, 'Well, then, look out for me after service,' strode away across the
grass, looking back, however, at the vestry door, to see if Cecil were turning his steps towards
the church.

Cecil had not at all liked the idea of taking his place among the congregation: he thought
that those who noticed him would wonder why he was not in the choir, and in his present mood
the least humiliation was intolerable to him. The two days which had intervened since his coming
home had not been well or happily spent: he had gone about in a sulky injured way, keeping
aloof from his father and mother, answering shortly when spoken to, and being anything but
sociable even with his brothers and sisters. Some of them had almost ceased to be sorry for
him, because he made himself, as they said, 'so disagreeable;' but his faithful friend Jessie
had borne with him uncomplainingly, and continued to feel for him with all her heart. He was
a little cheered now by the thought that Mr. Yorke felt for him too, and did not seem to condemn
him altogether; and so--rather slowly--he walked towards the church and went in, and took a
place near the door, where he thought scarcely anybody would see him.

His thoughts wandered far and wide during the prayers, though now and then he recalled them
by an effort, and tried to attend for at least a few minutes; but he could not help listening
to the sermon, which was preached by his father--his father, whom at the bottom of his heart
he did warmly love and respect, spite of all the rebellious feelings of the last day or two.
The text was, 'While I live will I praise the Lord: I will sing praises unto my God while I
have any being;' and there followed a beautiful, fervent exhortation to the spirit of constant
praise, and then a consideration of the hindrances which check this flow of thankfulness in
Christian souls. Cecil listened most attentively, and with a kind of awe, when among these
was named the pride of heart which would not acknowledge as deserved such punishment as God
might send, either directly from Himself or through others--the temper which called it 'very
hard' that this or that suffering should be laid upon us. He did not suppose that his father
was thinking of him--nor was he; but in the vivid description of feelings which followed he
recognised his own, and a strange thrill of heart seized him when Mr. Cunningham went on: 'There
is no peace like the peace of those who have conquered all such rebellious impulses, such self-justifying
thoughts, who have given themselves up lovingly to God to be chastened as much and as long
as He wills. Entering fully! Ah, with most of us it takes a lifetime to do that; but none of
us are too young to begin to learn it.

Cecil went back to his old position by the churchyard palings after service to wait for Mr.
Yorke, but could not quite escape some greetings from his village friends, who were 'glad to
see him back, and hoped he had his health.' He looked up anxiously when he saw his father and
the curate come forth from the vestry together; but they soon parted, and Mr. Yorke came across
the grass to him, saying, 'All right, Cecil; you can come home with me.'

'Home' was some bachelor lodgings in a very rustic cottage with a porch all overgrown with
Tangier peas, and a queerly-shaped dining-room, the ceiling of which was so low that Mr. Yorke's
head seemed but a little way off it as he walked about. On the other side of the passage was
a drawing-room, wonderfully smart and uncomfortable, with groups of wax fruit under glass shades
on rickety tables, crochet couvrettes over the back of almost every chair as well as on the
sofa, and a wonderful festoon of green and yellow tissue paper round the glass above the mantelpiece.
Mr. Yorke took Cecil in there while the cloth was being laid, but told him he never sat there,
as there was not a single chair which would bear his weight, nor a table which did not creak
when it was leant upon.

'I should turn all this trumpery out, and make Mrs. Keeling give me something sensible,' said
Cecil, with a boy's rough-and-ready way of disposing of difficulties.

'No, you wouldn't, if you saw what a delight she takes in it all, and what a solace it is to
her to come and dust and admire. Between the dining-room and a little den I have up-stairs,
I do very well. I only hope you'll have as snug a little hole and as worthy a little landlady
when you are a curate in lodgings.'

'I don't know whether I shall ever be a clergyman now,' said Cecil gloomily.

Mr. Yorke, who was standing at the window looking out, while his guest had ventured on one
of the dangerous chairs, turned round in surprise. 'You don't mean to say you are giving up
that? I thought you had wished it ever since you were four years old.'

'So I have; and if I had stayed at Eastwood, I might some day have got one of the Hulston scholarships,
and that would have helped me at college; but now there's no chance for me. I'm going to old
Bardsley's day school in Fairview, and there's nothing to be got there.'

'Still I wouldn't give up if I were you, my boy; I would keep the hope before me. There's nothing
like a high aim to help one through the drudgery of school-work, and keep one out of stupid,
little, mean temptations.'

'I know, and it was for that I worked,' said Cecil, 'at least for that chiefly; but it was
all no use, and it doesn't seem worth while to try any more.'

Mr. Yorke, who had supposed that Cecil hadn't worked, did not quite know what answer to make
to this.

'I think it seems more worth while than ever,' he said after a minute. 'If one has lost ground,
one must make it up again somehow. You know you might be ordained even without going to Oxford,
though I don't mean to say that a college education is not a good thing, if one can have it.'

'Father went to Oxford, and so did you, didn't you?' said Cecil.

'Yes, there was no difficulty about that, as it happened; but my way was not all smooth, any
more than yours. I had not been meant for a clergyman, and there were objections to be got
over, and a good deal that was discouraging; but it all came right at last.'

He broke off his sentence rather abruptly, but in his heart it was ended thus: 'Thanks be to
God for it.'

If Cecil had ever seen the luxurious home from which the curate came, or had known what good
worldly prospects he had given up to enter holy orders, he would have made quite a hero of
him in his own mind; but, even as it was, he looked up admiringly at the tall manly figure
and bright resolute face. He liked to feel that Mr. Yorke was his friend, and for the moment
longed to tell him all his trouble, and see if he could give him more help in bearing it than
little Jessie could. But he was shy of beginning; and before he had opened his lips, a plump
little old woman in a black silk dress and spotless apron appeared at the door, and announced,
'Your lunch is ready, sir.'

Lunch!--so they were to dine late; and though the cold mutton was not likely to prove a much
greater dainty at six than at one, Cecil felt a little pride and pleasure in keeping such grown-up
hours.

In honour of the young guest, Mrs. Keeling had set out every small luxury that either her lodger
or she possessed; and there were poached eggs, and gooseberries, and sardines, and honey, and
pickles, and gingerbread, and potted meat, arranged with great display upon the table, while
the bread and butter and cheese, as being altogether ordinary, were exiled to a little sideboard
behind Mr. Yorke's chair.

'Is there anything more you require, sir?' said the old dame before withdrawing, in a complacent
tone that seemed to say, What could they require when such a variety was before them?

'Thank you, let me see: would you like some mutton, Cecil?'

Mrs. Keeling almost frowned at this proposal. How could the good young gentleman be so inconsiderate,
she thought, as to propose to his visitor for lunch what was by and by to come up for dinner?
She was quite relieved, however, by Cecil's eager negative, and went off to her kitchen well
satisfied; while Mr. Yorke, after saying grace, proceeded to do the honours of the repast.

'May I give you some pickles, Cecil?' he said mischievously. 'I don't see anything to eat with
them, so I suppose they are meant to form a course by themselves.'

'They wouldn't be bad with bread and cheese,' rejoined Cecil, laughing; 'some of our seniors
eat them with all sorts of things.'

'Well, you can try the combination if you like, but I don't see any cheese; and oh, hulloa!
there's no bread either. Will you ring the bell while I help the eggs?'

'I see them--they're behind you--I'll get them,' and Cecil jumped up and set down the bread,
but, among the array of dishes which covered the small table, could find no room for the butter
or cheese.

'We can turn out the pickles, and the gooseberries too, for the present,' said Mr. Yorke with
a look of amusement. 'Thank you, Cecil; I seem to have brought you here to wait upon me.'

'Oh, it's such fun!' said Cecil delightedly. A thoroughly well-arranged meal would not have
given him half the pleasure that this queer little bachelor lunch did.

Before it was over, his spirits were such as entirely to satisfy his host; and Mrs. Keeling,
when she came to clear away, was gratified to find that her home-made gingerbread had by no
means been despised, though she had been a little offended in the interval by water being rung
for. What could Mr. Yorke be thinking of, to let the little gentleman drink water, when there
was cowslip wine and raspberry vinegar of her own making in the house, supposing that ordinary
wine or beer were thought too strong for him?

But Cecil had affirmed that he always drank water at home, and wished for nothing else, and
Mr. Yorke knew better than to try to lead him to other tastes. He liked Cecil's bringing-up
altogether--the hardiness and the good sense of it, and the kindness that was never spoiling;
and could sympathize the more with the boy, under the cloud which had come between him and
his father, because he knew how happy the relations between them had been till now. He was
ready to talk about school and cricket, and his own younger brothers, and anything that seemed
to interest him; and was rather startled when, as they sat together after lunch in a queer
little arbour at the end of the garden, Cecil suddenly said, 'Do you think a person can help
being miserable when they are punished for a fault they haven't done?'

'I think it is a great trial,' he answered after a moment's reflection. 'But surely they would
have more reason to be miserable if they had committed the fault.'

