Captain Vince stood and gazed over the water, sometimes with his glass and sometimes without
it. Here now was the end of his fuming, his raging, his long and untiring search. All the anxious
weariness of long voyaging, all the impatience of watching, all the irritation of waiting had
gone. The notorious vessel in which the father of Kate Bonnet had made himself a terror and
a scourge was now almost within his reach. The beneficent vessel by which the father of Kate
Bonnet should give to him his life's desire was so near to him that he could have sent a musket
ball into her had he chosen to fire. It was so near to him that he could now, with his glass,
read the word "Revenge" on her bow. His brows were knit, his jaws were set tight, his muscles
hardened themselves with energy.

Again the orders were passed, that when the men of the corvette boarded the pirate they were
to cut down the rascals without mercy, and not one of them was to draw sword or pistol against
the pirate captain. He would be attended to by their commander.

Vince knew the story of Stede Bonnet; he knew that early in life he had been in the army, and
that it was likely that he understood the handling of a sword. But he knew also that he himself
was one of the best swordsmen in the royal navy. He yearned to cross blades with the man whose
blood should not be shed, whose life should be preserved throughout the combat as if he were
a friend and not a foe, who should surrender to him his sword and give to him his daughter.

"They're a brave lot, those bloody rascals," said one of the men of the Badger.

"They've a fool of a captain," said another; "he knows not the difference between a British
man-of-war and a Spanish galleon, but we shall teach him that."

Slowly they came together, the Revenge and the Badger, the bow of one pointed east and the
bow of the other to the west; from neither vessel there came a word; the low waves could be
heard flapping against their sides. Suddenly there rang out from the man-of-war the order to
make fast. The grapnels flew over the bulwarks of the pirate, and in a moment the two vessels
were as one. Then, with a great shout, the men of the Badger leaped and hurled themselves upon
the deck of the Revenge, and upon that deck and from behind bulwarks there rose, yelling and
howling and roaring, the picked men of two pirate crews, quick, furious, and strong as tigers,
the hate of man in their eyes and the love of blood in their hearts. Like a wave of massacre
they threw themselves against the drilled masses of the Badger's crew, and with yells and oaths
and curses and cries the battle raged.

With a sudden dash the captain of the man-of-war plunged through the ranks of the combatants
and stood upon the middle of the deck; his quick eyes shot here and there; wherever he might
be, he sought the captain of the pirate ship. In an instant a huge man bounded aft and made
one long step towards him. Vast in chest and shoulder, and with mighty limbs, fiery-eyed, hairy,
horribly fantastic, Blackbeard stood, with great head lowered for the charge.

"A sugar-planter?" was the swift thought of Vince.

"Are you the captain of this ship?" he shouted.

"I am!" cried the other, and with a curse like bursting thunder the pirate came on and his
blade crossed that of Captain Vince.

Forward and amidships surged the general fight: men plunged, swords fell, blood flowed, feet
slipped upon the deck, and roars of blasphemy and pain rose above the noise of battle. But
farther aft the two captains, in a space by themselves, cut, thrust, and trampled, whirling
around each other, dashing from this side and that, ever with keen eyes firmly fixed, ever
with strong arms whirling down and upward; now one man felt the keen cut of steel and now the
other. The blood ran upon rich uniform or stained rough cloth and leather. It was a fight as
if between a lioness and a tigress, their dead cubs near-by.

As most men in the navy knew, Captain Vince was a most dangerous swordsman. In duel or in warfare,
no man yet had been able to stand before him. With skilled arm and eye and with every muscle
of his body trained, his sword sought a vital spot in his opponent. There was no thought now
in the mind of Vince about disarming the pirate and taking him prisoner; this terrible wild
beast, this hairy monster must be killed or he himself must die. Through the whirl and clash
and hot breath of battle he had been amazed that Kate Bonnet's father should be a man like this.

The pirate, his eyes now shrunken into his head, where they glowed like coals, his breath steaming
like a volcano, and his tremendous muscles supple and quick as those of a cat, met his antagonist
at every point, and with every lunge and thrust and cut forced him to guard.

Now Vince shut himself in his armour of trained defence; this bounding lion must be killed,
but the death-stroke must be cunningly delivered, and until, in his hot rage, the pirate should
forget his guard Vince must shield himself.

Never had the great Blackbeard met so keen a swordsman; he howled with rage to see the English
captain still vigorous, agile, warding every stroke. Blackbeard was now a wild beast of the
sea: he fought to kill, for naught else, not even his own life. With a yell he threw himself
upon Captain Vince, whose sword passed quick as lightning through the brawny masses of his
left shoulder. With one quick step, the pirate pressed closer to Vince, thus holding the imprisoned
blade, which stuck out behind his body, and with a tremendous blow of his right fist, in which
he held the heavy brazen hilt of his sword, he dashed his enemy backward to the ground. The
fall drew the blade from the shoulder of Blackbeard, whose great right arm went up, whose sword
hissed in the air and then came down upon the prostrate Vince. Another stroke and the English
captain lay insensible and still.

With the scream of a maddened Indian, Blackbeard sprung into the air, and when his feet touched
the deck he danced. He would have hewn his victim into pieces, he would have scattered him
over the decks, but there was no time for such recreations. Forward the battle raged with tremendous
fury, and into the midst of it dashed Blackbeard.

From the companion-way leading to the captain's cabin there now appeared a pale young face.
It was that of Dickory Charter, who had been ordered by Blackbeard, before the two vessels
came together, to shut himself in the cabin and to keep out of the broil, swearing that if
he made himself unfit to present to Eliza he would toss his disfigured body into the sea. Entirely
unarmed and having no place in the fight, Dickory had obeyed, but the spirit of a young man
which burned within him led him to behold the greater part of the conflict between Blackbeard
and the English captain. Being a young man, he had shut his eyes at the end of it, but when
the pirate had left he came forth quietly. The fight raged forward, and here he was alone with
the fallen figure on the deck.

As Dickory stood gazing downward in awe--in all his life he had never seen a corpse--the man
he had supposed dead opened his eyes for a moment and gazed with dull intelligence, and then
he gasped for rum. Dickory was quickly beside him with a tumbler of spirits and water, which,
raising the fallen man's head, he gave him. In a few moments the eyes of Captain Vince opened
wider, and he stared at the young man in naval uniform who stood above him. "Who are you?"
he said in a low voice, but distinct, "an English officer?"

"No," said Dickory, "I am no officer and no pirate; I am forced to wear these clothes."

And then, his natural and selfish instincts pushing themselves before anything else, Dickory
went on: "Oh, sir, if your men conquer these pirates will you take me--" but as he spoke he
saw that the wounded man was not listening to him; his half-closed eyes turned towards him
and he whispered:

"More spirits!"

Dickory dashed into the cabin, half-filled a tumbler with rum and gave it to Vince. Presently
his eyes recovered something of their natural glow, and with contracted brow he fixed them
upon the stream of blood which was running from him over the deck.

Suddenly he spoke sharply: "Young fellow," he said, "some paper and a pen, a pencil, anything.
Quick!"

Dickory looked at him in amazement for a moment and then he ran into the cabin, soon returning
with a sheet of paper and an English pencil.

The eyes of Captain Vince were now very bright, and a nervous strength came into his body.
He raised himself upon his elbow, he clutched at the paper, and clapping it upon the deck began
to write. Quickly his pencil moved; already he was feeling that his rum-given strength was
leaving him, but several pages he wrote, and then he signed his name. Folding the sheet he
stopped for a moment, feeling that he could do no more; but, gathering together his strength
in one convulsive motion, he addressed the letter.

"Take that," he feebly said, "and swear ... that it shall be ... delivered."

"I swear," said Dickory, as on his knees he took the blood-smeared letter. He hastily slipped
it into the breast of his coat, and then he was barely able to move quick enough to keep the
Englishman's head from striking the deck.

"How now!" sounded a harsh growl at his ear. "Get you into your cabin or you will be hurt.
It is not time yet for the fleecing of corpses! I am choking for a glass of brandy. Get in
and stay there!"

In another minute Blackbeard, refreshed, was running aft, the cut through his shoulder bleeding,
but entirely forgotten.

There was no fighting now upon the deck of the Revenge; the conflict raged, but it had been
transferred to the Badger. The sailors of the man-of-war had fought valiantly and stoutly,
even impetuously, but their enemies--picked men from two pirate crews--had fought like wire-muscled
devils. Ablaze with fury they had cut down the Badger's men, piling them upon their own fallen
comrades; they had followed the brave fellows with oaths, cutlasses, and pistols as, little
at a time and fighting all the while, they slowly clambered back into their own ship. The pirates
had thrown their grapnels over the bulwarks of the man-of-war; they had followed, cut by cut,
shot by shot, until they now stood upon the Badger, fighting with the same fury that they had
just fought upon the blood-soaked Revenge. Blackbeard was not yet with them--whatever happened,
Blackbeard must be refreshed--but now he sprang into the enemy's ship--that fine British man-of-war,
the corvette Badger, which had so bravely sailed down upon his ship to capture her--and led
the carnage.

They were tough men, those British seamen, tough in heart, tough in arms and body; they fought
above decks and they fought below, and they laid many a pirate scoundrel dead; but they had
met a foe which was too strong for them--a pack of brawny, hairy desperadoes, picked from two
pirate crews. The first officer now commanding, panting, bleeding, and torn, groaned as he
saw that his men could fight no longer, and he surrendered the Badger to the pirates.

The great Blackbeard yelled with delight. When had any other captain sailing under the Jolly
Roger captured a British man-of-war, a first-class corvette of the royal navy? His frenzied
joy was so intense that he was on the point of cutting down the officer who was offering him
his sword, but he withheld his hand.

"Go, somebody, and fetch me a glass of his Majesty's rum," he cried, "and I will drink to his
perdition!"

The door of a locker was smashed, the spirits were brought, and the great Blackbeard was again
refreshed.

Standing on the quarter-deck where but an hour or two before Captain Christopher Vince had
stood commanding his fine corvette as she sailed down upon her pirate enemy, Blackbeard had
brought before him all the survivors of the Badger's crew.

"Well, you're a lot of damnable knaves," said he, "and you have cost me many a good man this
day. But my crew will now be short-handed, and if any or all of you will turn pirate and ship
with me, I will let bygones pass; but, if any of you choose not that, overboard you go. I will
have no unwilling rascals in my crew."

All but one of the men of the Badger, downcast, wounded, panting with thirst and loving life,
agreed to become pirates and to ship on board the Revenge.

The first mate would not break his oath of allegiance to the king, and he went overboard.

CHAPTER XXIII

THE ADDRESS OF THE LETTER

There was hard and ghastly work that day when the Revenge was cleared after action, and there
was lively and interesting work on board the Badger when Blackbeard and his officers went over
the captured vessel to discover what new possessions they had won.

At first Blackbeard had thought to establish himself upon the corvette and abandon the Revenge.
It would have been such a grand thing to scourge the seas in a British man-of-war with the
Jolly Roger floating over her. But this would have been too dangerous; the combined naval force
of England in American waters would have been united to put down such presumption. So the wary
pirate curbed his ambition.

Everything portable and valuable was stripped from the Badger--her guns would have been taken
had it been practicable to ship them to the Revenge in a rising sea--and then she was scuttled,
fired, and cast off, and with her dead on board she passed out of commission in the royal navy.

During the turmoil, the horror and the bringing aboard of pillage, Dickory Charter had kept
close below deck, his face in his hands and his heart almost broken. It is so easy for young
hearts to almost break.

When he had seen the British ship come sailing down upon them, hope had sprung up brightly
in his heart; now there was a chance of his escaping from this hell of the waves. When the
Revenge should be taken he would rush to the British captain, or any one in authority, and
tell his tale. It would be believed, he doubted not; even his uniform would help to prove he
was no pirate; he would be taken away, he would reach Jamaica; he would see Kate; he would
carry to her the great news of her father. After that his life could take care of itself.

But now the blackness of darkness was over everything. Those who were to have been his friends
had vanished, the ship which was to have given him a new life had disappeared forever. He was
on board the pirate ship, bound for the shores of England--horrible shores to him--bound to
the shores of England and to Blackbeard's Eliza!

He was not a fool, this Dickory; he had no unwarrantable and romantic fears that in these enlightened
days one man could say to another, "Go you, and marry the woman I have chosen for you." There
was nothing silly or cowardly about him, but he knew Blackbeard.

Not one ray of hope thrust itself through his hands into his brain. Hope had gone, gone to
the bottom, and he was on his storm-tossed way to the waters of another continent.

But in the midst of his despair Dickory never thought of freeing himself, by a sudden bound,
of the world and his woes. So long as Kate should live he must live, even if it were to prove
to himself, and to himself only, how faithful to her he could be.

It was dark when men came tumbling below, throwing themselves into hammocks and bunks, and
Dickory prepared to turn in. If sleep should come and without dreams, it would be greater gain
than bags of gold. As he took off his coat, the letter of the English captain dropped from
his breast. Until then he had forgotten it, but now he remembered it as a sacred trust. The
dull light of the lantern barely enabled him to discern objects about him, but he stuck the
letter into a crack in the woodwork where in the morning he would see it and take proper care
of it.

Soon sleep came, but not without dreams. He dreamed that he was rowing Kate on the river at
Bridgetown, and that she told him in a low sweet voice, with a smile on her lips and her eyes
tenderly upturned, that she would like to row thus with him forever.

Early in the morning, through an open port-hole, the light of the eastern sun stole into this
abode of darkness and sin and threw itself upon the red-stained letter sticking in the crack
of the woodwork. Presently Dickory opened his eyes, and the first thing they fell upon was
that letter. On the side of the folded sheet he could see the superscription, boldly but irregularly
written: "Miss Kate Bonnet, Kingston, Ja."

Dickory sat upright, his eyes hard-fixed and burning. How long he sat he knew not. How long
his brain burned inwardly, as his eyes burned outwardly, he knew not. The noise of the watch
going on deck roused him, and in a moment he had the letter in his hands.

All that day Dickory Charter was worth nothing to anybody. Blackbeard swore at him and pushed
him aside. The young fellow could not even count the doubloons in a bag.

"Go to!" cried the pirate, blacker and more fantastically horrible than ever, for his bare
left shoulder was bound with a scarf of silk and his great arm was streaked and bedabbled with
his blood, "you are the most cursed coward I have met with in all my days at sea. So frightened
out of your wits by a lively brush as that of yesterday! Too scared to count gold! Never saw
I that before. One might be too scared to pray, but to count gold! Ha! ha!" and the bold pirate
laughed a merry roar. He was in good spirits; he had captured and sunk an English man-of-war;
sunk her with her English ensign floating above her. How it would have overjoyed him if all
the ships, little and big, that plied the Spanish Main could have seen him sink that man-of-war.
He was a merry man that morning, the great Blackbeard, triumphant in victory, glowing with
the king's brandy, and with so little pain from that cut in his shoulder that he could waste
no thought upon it.

"But Eliza will like it well," continued the merry pirate; "she will lead you with a string,
be you bold or craven, and the less you pull at it the easier it will be for my brave girl.
Ah! she will dance with joy when I tell her what a frightened rabbit of a husband it is that
I give her. Now get away somewhere, and let your face rid itself of its paleness; and should
you find a dead man lying where he has been overlooked, come and tell me and I will have him
put aside. You must not be frightened any more or Eliza may find that you have not left even
the spirit of a rabbit."

All day Dickory sat silent, his misery pinned into the breast of his coat. "Miss Kate Bonnet,
Kingston, Ja."--and this on a letter written in the dying moments of an English captain, a
high and mighty captain who must have loved as few men love, to write that letter, his life's
blood running over the paper as he wrote. And could a man love thus if he were not loved? That
was the terrible question.

Sometimes his mind became quiet enough for him to think coherently, then it was easy enough
for him to understand everything. Kate had been a long time in Jamaica; she had met many people;
she had met this man, this noble, handsome man. Dickory had watched him with glowing admiration
as he stood up before Blackbeard, fighting like the champion of all good against the hairy
monster who struck his blows for all that was base and wicked.

How Dickory's young heart had gone out in sympathy and fellowship towards the brave English
captain! How he had hoped that the next of his quick, sharp lunges might slit the black heart
of the pirate! How he had almost wept when the noble Englishman went down! And now it made
him shudder to think his heart had stood side by side with the heart of Kate's lover! He had
sworn to deliver the letter of that lover, and he would do it. More cruel than the bloodiest
pirate was the fate that forced him thus to bear the death-warrant of his own young life.

CHAPTER XXIV

BELIZE

There were not many captains of merchantmen in the early part of the eighteenth century who
cared to sail into the Gulf of Honduras, that body of water being such a favourite resort of
pirates.

But no such fears troubled the mind of the skipper of the brig Belinda, which was now making
the best of her way towards the port of Belize. She was a sturdy vessel and carried no prejudices.
Sometimes she was laden with goods bought from the pirates and destined to be sold to honest
people; and, again, she carried commodities purchased from those who were their legal owners
and intended for the use of the bold rascals who sailed under the Jolly Roger. Then, as now,
it was impossible for thieves to steal all the commodities they desired; some things must be
bought. Thus, serving the pirates as well as honest traders, the sloop Belinda feared not to
sail the Gulf of Honduras or to cast anchor by the town of Belize.

As the good ship approached her port Kate Bonnet kept steadfastly on deck during most of the
daylight, her eyes searching the surface of the water for something which looked like her father's
ship, the Revenge. True, Mr. Newcombe had written her that Major Bonnet had given up piracy
and was now engaged in commercial business in the town, but still, if she should see the Revenge,
the sight would be of absorbing interest to her. She was a girl of quick observation and good
memory, but the town came in view and she had seen no vessel which reminded her of the Revenge.

As soon as the anchor was dropped, Kate wished to go on shore, but her uncle would not hear
of that. He must know something definite before he trusted Kate or himself in such a lawless
town as Belize. The captain, who was going ashore, could make inquiries, and Kate must wait.

In a little room at the back of a large, low storehouse, not far from the pier, sat Stede Bonnet
and his faithful friend and servitor, Ben Greenway. The storehouse was crowded with goods of
almost every imaginable description, and even the room back of it contained an overflow of
bales, boxes, and barrels. At a small table near a window sat the Scotchman and Bonnet, the
latter reading from some roughly written lists descriptions and quantities of goods, the value
of each item being estimated by the canny Scotchman, who set down the figures upon another
list. Presently Bonnet put down his papers and heaved a heavy sigh, which sigh seemed to harmonize
very well with his general appearance. He carried no longer upon him the countenance of the
bold officer who, in uniform and flowing feather, trod the quarter-deck of the Revenge, but
bore the expression of a man who knew adversity, yet was not able to humble himself under it.
He was bent and borne down, although not yet broken. Had he been broken he could better have
accommodated himself to his present case. His clothes were those of the common class of civilian,
and there was that about him which indicated that he cared no more for neatness or good looks.

"Ben Greenway," he said, "this is too much! Now have I reached the depth in my sorrow at which
all my strength leaves me. I cannot read these lists."

The Scotchman looked up. "Is there no' light enow!" he asked.

"Light!" said Bonnet; "there is no light anywhere; all is murkiness and gloom. The goods which
you have been lately estimating are all my own, taken from my own ship by that arch traitor
and chief devil, Blackbeard. I have read the names of them to you and I have remembered many
of them and I have not weakened, but now comes a task which is too great for me. These things
which follow were all intended for my daughter Kate. Silks and satins and cloth of gold, ribbons
and fine linen, laces and ornaments, all these I selected for my dear daughter, and by day
and by night I have thought of her apparelled in fine raiment, more richly dressed than any
lady in Barbadoes. My daughter, my beautiful, my proud Kate! And now what has it all come to?
All these are gone, basely stolen from me by that Blackbeard."

Ben Greenway looked up. "Wha stole from ye," he said, "what ye had already stolen from its
rightful owners. An' think ye," he continued, "that your honest daughter Kate would deign to
array hersel' in stolen goods, no matter how rich they might happen to be! An' think ye she
could hold up her head if the good people o' Bridgetown could point at her an' say, 'Look at
the thief's daughter; how fine she is!' An' think ye that Mr. Martin Newcombe would tak' into
his house an' hame a wife wha hadna come honestly by her clothes! I tell ye, Master Bonnet,
that ye should exalt your soul in thankfulness that ye are no longer a dishonest mon, an' that
whatever raiment your daughter may now wear, no' a sleeve or button o' it was purloined an'
stolen by her father."

"Ben Greenway," exclaimed Bonnet, striking his hand upon the table, "you will drive me so mad
that I cannot read writing! These things are bad enough, and you need not make them worse."

"Bless Heaven," said the Scotchman, "your conscience is wakin', an' the time may come, if it
is kept workin', when ye will forget your plunder an' your blude, your wicked vanity, your
cruelty an' your dishonesty, an' mak' yoursel' worthy o' a good daughter an' a quiet hame.
An' more than that, I will tak' leave to add, o' the faithful services o' a steadfast friend."

"I cannot forget them, Ben," said Bonnet, speaking without anger. "The more you talk about
my sins the more I long to do them all over again; the more you say about my vanity and pride,
the more I yearn to wear my uniform and wave my naked sword. Ay, to bring it down with blood
upon its blade. I am very wicked, Greenway; you never would admit it and you do not admit it
now, but I am wicked, and I could prove it to you if fortune would give me opportunity." And
Captain Bonnet sat up very straight in his chair and his eyes flashed as they very often had
flashed as he trod the deck of the Revenge.

At this moment there was a knock at the door and the captain of the Belinda came in.

"Good-day, sir!" said that burly seaman. "And this is Captain Bonnet, I am sure, for I have
seen him before, though garbed in another fashion, and I come to bring you news. I have just
arrived at this port in my sloop, and I bring with me from Kingston your daughter, Mistress
Kate Bonnet, her uncle, Mr. Delaplaine, and a good dame named Charter."

Stede Bonnet turned pale as he had never turned pale before.

"My daughter!" he gasped. "My daughter Kate?"

"Yes," said the captain; "she is on my ship, yearning and moaning to see you."

"From Kingston?" murmured Bonnet.

"Yes," said the other, "and on fire to see you since she heard you were here."

"Master Bonnet," exclaimed Ben Greenway, rising, "we must hasten to that vessel; perhaps this
good captain will now tak' us there in his boat."

