I.

TO THE

MOST NOBLE THE MARQUESS OF DOURO, M.P., D.C.L., ETC., ETC.

    MY DEAR LORD,--

    The imperfect attempt to picture forth some scenes of the most
    brilliant period of my country's history might naturally suggest their
    dedication to the son of him who gave that era its glory. I feel,
    however, in the weakness of the effort, the presumption of such a
    thought, and would simply ask of you to accept these volumes as a
    souvenir of many delightful hours passed long since in your society,
    and a testimony of the deep pride with which I regard the honor of your
    friendship.

    Believe me, my dear Lord, with every respect and esteem,

    Yours, most sincerely,

    THE AUTHOR.

    BRUSSELS, November, 1841.

A WORD OF EXPLANATION.

KIND PUBLIC,--

Having so lately taken my leave of the stage, in a farewell benefit, it is but fitting that
I should explain the circumstances which once more bring me before you,--that I may not appear
intrusive, where I have met with but too much indulgence.

A blushing debutant--entre nous, the most impudent Irishman that ever swaggered down Sackville
Street--has requested me to present him to your acquaintance. He has every ambition to be a
favorite with you; but says--God forgive him--he is too bashful for the foot-lights.

He has remarked---as, doubtless, many others have done--upon what very slight grounds, and
with what slender pretension, my Confessions have met with favor at the hands of the press
and the public; and the idea has occurred to him to indite his own. Had his determination ended
here, I should have nothing to object to; but unfortunately, he expects me to become his editor,
and in some sort responsible for the faults of his production. I have wasted much eloquence
and more breath in assuring him that I was no tried favorite of the public, who dared take
liberties with them; that the small rag of reputation I enjoyed, was a very scanty covering
for my own nakedness; that the plank which swam with one, would most inevitably sink with two;
and lastly, that the indulgence so often bestowed upon a first effort is as frequently converted
into censure on the older offender. My arguments have, however, totally failed, and he remains
obdurate and unmoved. Under these circumstances I have yielded; and as, happily for me, the
short and pithy direction to the river Thames, in the Critic, "to keep between its banks,"
has been imitated by my friend, I find all that is required of me is to write my name upon
the title and go in peace. Such, he informs me, is modern editorship.

In conclusion, I would beg, that if the debt he now incurs at your hands remain unpaid, you
would kindly bear in mind that your remedy lies against the drawer of the bill and not against
its mere humble indorser,

HARRY LORREQUER

BRUSSELS, March, 1840.

PREFACE

The success of Harry Lorrequer was the reason for writing Charles O'Malley. That I myself was
in no wise prepared for the favor the public bestowed on, my first attempt is easily enough
understood. The ease with which I strung my stories together,--and in reality the Confessions
of Harry Lorrequer are little other than a note-book of absurd and laughable incidents,--led
me to believe that I could draw on this vein of composition without any limit whatever. I felt,
or thought I felt, an inexhaustible store of fun and buoyancy within me, and I began to have
a misty, half-confused impression that Englishmen generally labored under a sad-colored temperament,
took depressing views of life, and were proportionately grateful to any one who would rally
them even passingly out of their despondency, and give them a laugh without much trouble for
going in search of it.

When I set to work to write Charles O'Malley I was, as I have ever been, very low with fortune,
and the success of a new venture was pretty much as eventful to me as the turn of the right
color at rouge-et-noir. At the same time I had then an amount of spring in my temperament,
and a power of enjoying life which I can honestly say I never found surpassed. The world had
for me all the interest of an admirable comedy, in which the part allotted myself, if not a
high or a foreground one, was eminently suited to my taste, and brought me, besides, sufficiently
often on the stage to enable me to follow all the fortunes of the piece. Brussels, where I
was then living, was adorned at the period by a most agreeable English society. Some leaders
of the fashionable world of London had come there to refit and recruit, both in body and estate.
There were several pleasant and a great number of pretty people among them; and so far as I
could judge, the fashionable dramas of Belgrave Square and its vicinity were being performed
in the Rue Royale and the Boulevard de Waterloo with very considerable success. There were
dinners, balls, déjeûners, and picnics in the Bois de Cambre, excursions to Waterloo, and select
little parties to Bois-fort,--a charming little resort in the forest whose intense cockneyism
became perfectly inoffensive as being in a foreign land, and remote from the invasion of home-bred
vulgarity. I mention all these things to show the adjuncts by which I was aided, and the rattle
of gayety by which I was, as it were, "accompanied," when I next tried my voice.

The soldier element tinctured strongly our society, and I will say most agreeably. Among those
whom I remember best were several old Peninsulars. Lord Combermere was of this number, and
another of our set was an officer who accompanied, if indeed he did not command, the first
boat party who crossed the Douro. It is needless to say how I cultivated a society so full
of all the storied details I was eager to obtain, and how generously disposed were they to
give me all the information I needed. On topography especially were they valuable to me, and
with such good result that I have been more than once complimented on the accuracy of my descriptions
of places which I have never seen and whose features I have derived entirely from the narratives
of my friends.

When, therefore, my publishers asked me could I write a story in the Lorrequer vein, in which
active service and military adventure could figure more prominently than mere civilian life,
and where the achievements of a British army might form the staple of the narrative,--when
this question was propounded me, I was ready to reply: Not one, but fifty. Do not mistake me,
and suppose that any overweening confidence in my literary powers would have emboldened me
to make this reply; my whole strength lay in the fact that I could not recognize anything like
literary effort in the matter. If the world would only condescend to read that which I wrote
precisely as I was in the habit of talking, nothing could be easier than for me to occupy them.
Not alone was it very easy to me, but it was intensely interesting and amusing to myself, to
be so engaged.

The success of Harry Lorrequer had been freely wafted across the German ocean, but even in
its mildest accents it was very intoxicating incense to me; and I set to work on my second
book with a thrill of hope as regards the world's favor which--and it is no small thing to
say it--I can yet recall.

I can recall, too, and I am afraid more vividly still, some of the difficulties of my task
when I endeavored to form anything like an accurate or precise idea of some campaigning incident
or some passage of arms from the narratives of two distinct and separate "eye-witnesses." What
mistrust I conceived for all eye-witnesses from my own brief experience of their testimonies!
What an impulse did it lend me to study the nature and the temperament of narrator, as indicative
of the peculiar coloring he might lend his narrative; and how it taught me to know the force
of the French epigram that has declared how it was entirely the alternating popularity of Marshal
Soult that decided whether he won or lost the battle of Toulouse.

While, however, I was sifting these evidences, and separating, as well as I might, the wheat
from the chaff, I was in a measure training myself for what, without my then knowing it, was
to become my career in life. This was not therefore altogether without a certain degree of
labor, but so light and pleasant withal, so full of picturesque peeps at character and humorous
views of human nature, that it would be the very rankest ingratitude of me if I did not own
that I gained all my earlier experiences of the world in very pleasant company,--highly enjoyable
at the time, and with matter for charming souvenirs long after.

That certain traits of my acquaintances found themselves embodied in some of the characters
of this story I do not to deny. The principal of natural selection adapts itself to novels
as to Nature, and it would have demanded an effort above my strength to have disabused myself
at the desk of all the impressions of the dinner-table, and to have forgotten features which
interested or amused me.

One of the personages of my tale I drew, however, with very little aid from fancy. I would
go so far as to say that I took him from the life, if my memory did not confront me with the
lamentable inferiority of my picture to the great original it was meant to portray.

With the exception of the quality of courage, I never met a man who contained within himself
so many of the traits of Falstaff as the individual who furnished me with Major Monsoon. But
the major--I must call him so, though that rank was far beneath his own--was a man of unquestionable
bravery. His powers as a story-teller were to my thinking unrivalled; the peculiar reflections
on life which he would passingly introduce, the wise apothegms, were after a morality essentially
of his own invention. Then he would indulge in the unsparing exhibition of himself in situations
such as other men would never have confessed to, all blended up with a racy enjoyment of life,
dashed occasionally with sorrow that our tenure of it was short of patriarchal. All these,
accompanied by a face redolent of intense humor, and a voice whose modulations were managed
with the skill of a consummate artist,--all these, I say, were above me to convey; nor indeed
as I re-read any of the adventures in which he figures, am I other than ashamed at the weakness
of my drawing and the poverty of my coloring.

That I had a better claim to personify him than is always the lot of a novelist; that I possessed,
so to say, a vested interest in his life and adventures,--I will relate a little incident in
proof; and my accuracy, if necessary, can be attested by another actor in the scene, who yet
survives.

I was living a bachelor life at Brussels, my family being at Ostende for the bathing, during
the summer of 1840. The city was comparatively empty,--all the so-called society being absent
at the various spas or baths of Germany. One member of the British legation, who remained at
his post to represent the mission, and myself, making common cause of our desolation and ennui,
spent much of our time together, and dined tête-à-tête every day.

It chanced that one evening, as we were hastening through the park on our way to dinner, we
espied the major--for as major I must speak of him--lounging along with that half-careless,
half-observant air we had both of us remarked as indicating a desire to be somebody's, anybody's
guest, rather than surrender himself to the homeliness of domestic fare.

"There's that confounded old Monsoon," cried my diplomatic friend. "It's all up if he sees
us, and I can't endure him."

Now, I must remark that my friend, though very far from insensible to the humoristic side of
the major's character, was not always in the vein to enjoy it; and when so indisposed he could
invest the object of his dislike with something little short of antipathy. "Promise me," said
he, as Monsoon came towards us,--"promise me, you'll not ask him to dinner." Before I could
make any reply, the major was shaking a hand of either of us, and rapturously expatiating over
his good luck at meeting us. "Mrs. M.," said he, "has got a dreary party of old ladies to dine
with her, and I have come out here to find some pleasant fellow to join me, and take our mutton-chop
together."

"We're behind our time, Major," said my friend, "sorry to leave you so abruptly, but must push
on. Eh, Lorrequer," added he, to evoke corroboration on my part.

"Harry says nothing of the kind," replied Monsoon, "he says, or he's going to say, 'Major,
I have a nice bit of dinner waiting for me at home, enough for two, will feed three, or if
there be a short-coming, nothing easier than to eke out the deficiency by another bottle of
Moulton; come along with us then, Monsoon, and we shall be all the merrier for your company.'"

Repeating his last words, "Come along, Monsoon," etc., I passed my arm within his, and away
we went. For a moment my friend tried to get free and leave me, but I held him fast and carried
him along in spite of himself. He was, however, so chagrined and provoked that till the moment
we reached my door he never uttered a word, nor paid the slightest attention to Monsoon, who
talked away in a vein that occasionally made gravity all but impossible.

Our dinner proceeded drearily enough, the diplomatist's stiffness never relaxed for a moment,
and my own awkwardness damped all my attempts at conversation. Not so, however, Monsoon, he
ate heartily, approved of everything, and pronounced my wine to be exquisite. He gave us a
perfect discourse on sherry and Spanish wines in general, told us the secret of the Amontillado
flavor, and explained that process of browning by boiling down wine which some are so fond
of in England. At last, seeing perhaps that the protection had little charm for us, with his
accustomed tact, he diverged into anecdote. "I was once fortunate enough," said he, "to fall
upon some of that choice sherry from the St. Lucas Luentas which is always reserved for royalty.
It was a pale wine, delicious in the drinking, and leaving no more flavor in the mouth than
a faint dryness that seemed to say, another glass. Shall I tell you how I came by it?" And
scarcely pausing for reply, he told the story of having robbed his own convoy, and stolen the
wine he was in charge of for safe conveyance.

I wish I could give any, even the weakest idea of how he narrated that incident,--the struggle
that he portrayed between duty and temptation, and the apologetic tone of his voice in which
he explained that the frame of mind that succeeds to any yielding to seductive influences,
is often, in the main, more profitable to a man than is the vain-glorious sense of having resisted
a temptation. "Meekness is the mother of all the virtues," said he, "and there is no being
meek without frailty." The story, told as he told it, was too much for the diplomatist's gravity,
he resisted all signs of attention as long as he was able, and at last fairly roared out with
laughter.

As soon as I myself recovered from the effects of his drollery, I said, "Major, I have a proposition
to make you. Let me tell the story in print, and I'll give you five naps."

"Are you serious, Harry?" asked he. "Is this on honor?"

"On honor, assuredly," I replied.

"Let me have the money down, on the nail, and I'll give you leave to have me and my whole life,
every adventure that ever befell me, ay, and if you like, every moral reflection that my experiences
have suggested."

"Done!" cried I, "I agree."

"Not so fast," cried the diplomatist, "we must make a protocol of this; the high contracting
parties must know what they give and what they receive, I'll draw out the treaty."

He did so at full length on a sheet of that solemn blue-tinted paper, so dedicated to despatch
purposes; he duly set fourth the concession and the consideration. We each signed the document;
he witnessed and sealed it; and Monsoon pocketed my five napoleons, filling a bumper to any
success the bargain might bring me, and of which I have never had reason to express deep disappointment.

This document, along with my university degree, my commission in a militia regiment, and a
vast amount of letters very interesting to me, was seized by the Austrian authorities on the
way from Como to Florence, in the August of 1847, being deemed part of a treasonable correspondence,--probably
purposely allegorical in form,--and never restored to me. I fairly own that I'd give all the
rest willingly to repossess myself of the Monsoon treaty, not a little for the sake of that
quaint old autograph, faintly shaken by the quiet laugh with which he wrote it.

That I did not entirely fail in giving my major some faint resemblance to the great original
from whom I copied him, I may mention that he was speedily recognized in print by the Marquis
of Londonderry, the well-known Sir Charles Stuart of the Peninsular campaign. "I know that
fellow well," said he, "he once sent me a challenge, and I had to make him a very humble apology.
The occasion was this: I had been out with a single aide-de-camp to make a reconnaissance in
front of Victor's division; and to avoid attracting any notice, we covered over our uniform
with two common gray overcoats which reached to the feet, and effectually concealed our rank
as officers. Scarcely, however, had we topped a hill which commanded the view of the French,
than a shower of shells flew over and around us. Amazed to think how we could have been so
quickly noticed, I looked around me, and discovered, quite close in my rear, your friend Monsoon
with what he called his staff,--a popinjay set of rascals dressed out in green and gold, and
with more plumes and feathers than the general staff ever boasted. Carried away by momentary
passion at the failure of my reconnaissance, I burst out with some insolent allusion to the
harlequin assembly which had drawn the French fire upon us. Monsoon saluted me respectfully,
and retired without a word; but I had scarcely reached my quarters when a 'friend' of his waited
on me with a message, a very categorical message it was, too, 'it must be a meeting or an ample
apology.' I made the apology, a most full one, for the major was right, and I had not a fraction
of reason to sustain me in my conduct, and we have been the best of friends ever since."

I myself had heard the incident before this from Monsoon, but told among other adventures whose
exact veracity I was rather disposed to question, and did not therefore accord it all the faith
that was its due; and I admit that the accidental corroboration of this one event very often
served to puzzle me afterwards, when I listened to stories in which the major seemed a second
Munchausen, but might, like in this of the duel, have been among the truest and most matter-of-fact
of historians. May the reader be not less embarrassed than myself, is my sincere, if not very
courteous, prayer.

I have no doubt myself, that often in recounting some strange incident,--a personal experience
it always was,--he was himself more amused by the credulity of the hearers, and the amount
of interest he could excite in them, than were they by the story. He possessed the true narrative
gusto, and there was a marvellous instinct in the way in which he would vary a tale to suit
the tastes of an audience; while his moralizings were almost certain to take the tone of a
humoristic quiz on the company.

Though fully aware that I was availing myself of the contract that delivered him into my hands,
and dining with me two or three days a week, he never lapsed into any allusion to his appearance
in print; and the story had been already some weeks published before he asked me to lend him
"that last thing--he forgot the name of it--I was writing."

Of Frank Webber I have said, in a former notice, that he was one of my earliest friends, my
chum in college, and in the very chambers where I have located Charles O'Malley, in Old Trinity.
He was a man of the highest order of abilities, and with a memory that never forgot, but ruined
and run to seed by the idleness that came of a discursive, uncertain temperament. Capable of
anything, he spent his youth in follies and eccentricities; every one of which, however, gave
indications of a mind inexhaustible in resources, and abounding in devices and contrivances
that none other but himself would have thought of. Poor fellow, he died young; and perhaps
it is better it should have been so. Had he lived to a later day, he would most probably have
been found a foremost leader of Fenianism; and from what I knew of him, I can say he would
have been a more dangerous enemy to English rule than any of those dealers in the petty larceny
of rebellion we have lately seen among us.

I have said that of Mickey Free I had not one but one thousand types. Indeed, I am not quite
sure that in my last visit to Dublin, I did not chance on a living specimen of the "Free" family,
much readier in repartée, quicker with an apropos, and droller in illustration than my own
Mickey. This fellow was "boots" at a great hotel in Sackville Street; and I owe him more amusement
and some heartier laughs than it has been always my fortune to enjoy in a party of wits. His
criticisms on my sketches of Irish character were about the shrewdest and the best I ever listened
to; and that I am not bribed to this by any flattery, I may remark that they were more often
severe than complimentary, and that he hit every blunder of image, every mistake in figure,
of my peasant characters, with an acuteness and correctness which made me very grateful to
know that his daily occupations were limited to blacking boots, and not polishing off authors.

I believe I have now done with my confessions, except I should like to own that this story
was the means of according me a more heartfelt glow of satisfaction, a more gratifying sense
of pride, than anything I ever have or ever shall write, and in this wise. My brother, at that
time the rector of an Irish parish, once forwarded to me a letter from a lady unknown to him,
but who had heard he was the brother of "Harry Lorrequer," and who addressed him not knowing
where a letter might be directed to myself. The letter was the grateful expression of a mother,
who said, "I am the widow of a field officer, and with an only son, for whom I obtained a presentation
to Woolwich; but seeing in my boy's nature certain traits of nervousness and timidity which
induced me to hesitate on embarking him in the career of a soldier, I became very unhappy and
uncertain which course to decide on.

"While in this state of uncertainty, I chanced to make him a birthday present of 'Charles O'Malley,'
the reading of which seemed to act like a charm on his whole character, inspiring him with
a passion for movement and adventure, and spiriting him to an eager desire for a military life.
Seeing that this was no passing enthusiasm, but a decided and determined bent, I accepted the
cadetship for him; and his career has been not alone distinguished as a student, but one which
has marked him out for an almost hare-brained courage, and for a dash and heroism that give
high promise for his future.

"Thank your brother for me," wrote she, "a mother's thanks for the welfare of an only son;
and say how I wish that my best wishes for him and his could recompense him for what I owe him."

I humbly hope that it may not be imputed to me as unpardonable vanity,--the recording of this
incident. It gave me an intense pleasure when I heard it; and now, as I look back on it, it
invests this story for myself with an interest which nothing else that I have written can afford
me.

I have now but to repeat what I have declared in former editions, my sincere gratitude for
the favor the public still continues to bestow on me,--a favor which probably associates the
memory of this book with whatever I have since done successfully, and compels me to remember
that to the popularity of "Charles O'Malley" I am indebted for a great share of that kindliness
in criticism, and that geniality in judgment, which--for more than a quarter of a century--my
countrymen have graciously bestowed on their faithful friend and servant,

CHARLES LEVER.

TRIESTE, 1872.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER

I.       DALY'S CLUB-HOUSE II.      THE ESCAPE III.     MR. BLAKE IV.      THE HUNT V.    
THE DRAWING-ROOM VI.      THE DINNER VII.     THE FLIGHT FROM GURT-NA-MORRA VIII.    THE DUEL
IX.      THE RETURN X.       THE ELECTION XI.      AN ADVENTURE XII.     MICKEY FREE XIII.
THE JOURNEY XIV.     DUBLIN XV.      CAPTAIN POWER XVI.     THE VICE-PROVOST XVII.    TRINITY
COLLEGE.--A LECTURE XVIII.   THE INVITATION.--THE WAGER XIX.     THE BALL XX.      THE LAST
NIGHT IN TRINITY XXI.     THE PHOENIX PARK XXII.    THE ROAD XXIII.   CORK XXIV.    THE ADJUTANT'S
DINNER XXV.     THE ENTANGLEMENT XXVI.    THE PREPARATION XXVII.   THE SUPPER XXVIII.  THE
VOYAGE XXIX.    THE ADJUTANT'S STORY.--LIFE IN DERBY XXX.     FRED POWER'S ADVENTURE IN PHILIPSTOWN
XXXI.    THE VOYAGE CONTINUED XXXII.   MR. SPARKS'S STORY XXXIII.  THE SKIPPER XXXIV.   THE
LAND XXXV.    MAJOR MONSOON XXXVI.   THE LANDING XXXVII.  LISBON XXXVIII. THE RUA NUOVA XXXIX.
THE VILLA XL.      THE DINNER XLI.     THE ROUTE XLII.    THE FAREWELL XLIII.   THE MARCH XLIV.
THE BIVOUAC XLV.     THE DOURO XLVI.    THE MORNING XLVII.   THE REVIEW XLVIII.  THE QUARREL
XLIX.    THE ROUTE CONTINUED L.       THE WATCH-FIRE LI.      THE MARCH LII.     THE PAGE LIII.
ALVAS LIV.     THE SUPPER LV.      THE LEGION LVI.     THE DEPARTURE LVII.    CUESTA LVIII.
THE LETTER LXIX.    MAJOR O'SHAUGHNESSY LX.      PRELIMINARIES LXI.     ALL RIGHT LXII.   
THE DUEL LXIII.   NEWS FROM GALWAY LXIV.    AN ADVENTURE WITH SIR ARTHUR LXV.     TALAVERA
LXVI.    NIGHT AFTER TALAVERA LXVII.   THE OUTPOST

ILLUSTRATIONS BY PHIZ IN VOL. I

Etchings THE SUNK FENCE THE RESCUE CHARLES POPS THE QUESTION THE SKIRMISH

Illustrations in the Text MR. BLAKE'S DRESSING-ROOM THE ELECTION MR. CROW WELL PLUCKED FRANK
WEBBER AT HIS STUDIES MISS JUDY MACAN THE ADJUTANT'S AFTER-DINNER RIDE THE RIVAL FLUNKIES MAJOR
MONSOON AND DONNA MARIA THE SALUTATION A TOUCH AT LEAP-FROG WITH NAPOLEON MAJOR MONSOON TRYING
TO CHARGE MR. FREE'S SONG THE COAT OF MAIL

CHARLES O'MALLEY.

THE IRISH DRAGOON.

CHAPTER I.

DALY'S CLUB-HOUSE.

The rain was dashing in torrents against the window-panes, and the wind sweeping in heavy and
fitful gusts along the dreary and deserted streets, as a party of three persons sat over their
wine, in that stately old pile which once formed the resort of the Irish Members, in College
Green, Dublin, and went by the name of Daly's Club-House. The clatter of falling tiles and
chimney-pots, the jarring of the window-frames, and howling of the storm without seemed little
to affect the spirits of those within as they drew closer to a blazing fire before which stood
a small table covered with the remains of a dessert, and an abundant supply of bottles, whose
characteristic length of neck indicated the rarest wines of France and Germany; while the portly
magnum of claret--the wine par excellence of every Irish gentleman of the day--passed rapidly
from hand to hand, the conversation did not languish, and many a deep and hearty laugh followed
the stories which every now and then were told, as some reminiscence of early days was recalled,
or some trait of a former companion remembered.

One of the party, however, was apparently engrossed by other thoughts than those of the mirth
and merriment around; for in the midst of all he would turn suddenly from the others, and devote
himself to a number of scattered sheets of paper, upon which he had written some lines, but
whose crossed and blotted sentences attested how little success had waited upon his literary
labors. This individual was a short, plethoric-looking, white-haired man of about fifty, with
a deep, round voice, and a chuckling, smothering laugh, which, whenever he indulged not only
shook his own ample person, but generally created a petty earthquake on every side of him.
For the present, I shall not stop to particularize him more closely; but when I add that the
person in question was a well-known member of the Irish House of Commons, whose acute understanding
and practical good sense were veiled under an affected and well-dissembled habit of blundering
that did far more for his party than the most violent and pointed attacks of his more accurate
associates, some of my readers may anticipate me in pronouncing him to be Sir Harry Boyle.
Upon his left sat a figure the most unlike him possible. He was a tall, thin, bony man, with
a bolt-upright air and a most saturnine expression; his eyes were covered by a deep green shade,
which fell far over his face, but failed to conceal a blue scar that crossing his cheek ended
in the angle of his mouth, and imparted to that feature, when he spoke, an apparently abortive
attempt to extend towards his eyebrow; his upper lip was covered with a grizzly and ill-trimmed
mustache, which added much to the ferocity of his look, while a thin and pointed beard on his
chin gave an apparent length to the whole face that completed its rueful character. His dress
was a single-breasted, tightly buttoned frock, in one button-hole of which a yellow ribbon
was fastened, the decoration of a foreign service, which conferred upon its wearer the title
of count; and though Billy Considine, as he was familiarly called by his friends, was a thorough
Irishman in all his feelings and affections, yet he had no objection to the designation he
had gained in the Austrian army. The Count was certainly no beauty, but somehow, very few men
of his day had a fancy for telling him so. A deadlier hand and a steadier eye never covered
his man in the Phoenix; and though he never had a seat in the House, he was always regarded
as one of the government party, who more than once had damped the ardor of an opposition member
by the very significant threat of "setting Billy at him." The third figure of the group was
a large, powerfully built, and handsome man, older than either of the others, but not betraying
in his voice or carriage any touch of time. He was attired in the green coat and buff vest
which formed the livery of the club; and in his tall, ample forehead, clear, well-set eye,
and still handsome mouth, bore evidence that no great flattery was necessary at the time which
called Godfrey O'Malley the handsomest man in Ireland.

"Upon my conscience," said Sir Harry, throwing down his pen with an air of ill-temper, "I can
make nothing of it! I have got into such an infernal habit of making bulls, that I can't write
sense when I want it!"

"Come, come," said O'Malley, "try again, my dear fellow. If you can't succeed, I'm sure Billy
and I have no chance."

"What have you written? Let us see," said Considine, drawing the paper towards him, and holding
it to the light. "Why, what the devil is all this? You have made him 'drop down dead after
dinner of a lingering illness brought on by the debate of yesterday.'"

"Oh, impossible!"

"Well, read it yourself; there it is. And, as if to make the thing less credible, you talk
of his 'Bill for the Better Recovery of Small Debts.' I'm sure, O'Malley, your last moments
were not employed in that manner."

"Come, now," said Sir Harry, "I'll set all to rights with a postscript. 'Any one who questions
the above statement is politely requested to call on Mr. Considine, 16 Kildare Street, who
will feel happy to afford him every satisfaction upon Mr. O'Malley's decease, or upon miscellaneous
matters."

"Worse and worse," said O'Malley. "Killing another man will never persuade the world that I'm
dead."

"But we'll wake you, and have a glorious funeral."

"And if any man doubt the statement, I'll call him out," said the Count.

"Or, better still," said Sir Harry, "O'Malley has his action at law for defamation."

"I see I'll never get down to Galway at this rate," said O'Malley; "and as the new election
takes place on Tuesday week, time presses. There are more writs flying after me this instant
than for all the government boroughs."

"And there will be fewer returns, I fear," said Sir Harry.

"Who is the chief creditor?" asked the Count.

"Old Stapleton, the attorney in Fleet Street, has most of the mortgages."

"Nothing to be done with him in this way?" said Considine, balancing the corkscrew like a hair
trigger.

"No chance of it."

"May be," said Sir Harry, "he might come to terms if I were to call and say, 'You are anxious
to close accounts, as your death has just taken place.' You know what I mean."

"I fear so should he, were you to say so. No, no, Boyle, just try a plain, straightforward
paragraph about my death; we'll have it in Falkner's paper to-morrow. On Friday the funeral
can take place, and, with the blessing o' God, I'll come to life on Saturday at Athlone, in
time to canvass the market."

"I think it wouldn't be bad if your ghost were to appear to old Timins the tanner, in Naas,
on your way down. You know he arrested you once before."

"I prefer a night's sleep," said O'Malley. "But come, finish the squib for the paper."

"Stay a little," said Sir Harry, musing; "it just strikes me that if ever the matter gets out
I may be in some confounded scrape. Who knows if it is not a breach of privilege to report
the death of a member? And to tell you truth, I dread the Sergeant and the Speaker's warrant
with a very lively fear."

"Why, when did you make his acquaintance?" said the Count.

"Is it possible you never heard of Boyle's committal?" said O'Malley. "You surely must have
been abroad at the time. But it's not too late to tell it yet."

"Well, it's about two years since old Townsend brought in his Enlistment Bill, and the whole
country was scoured for all our voters, who were scattered here and there, never anticipating
another call of the House, and supposing that the session was just over. Among others, up came
our friend Harry, here, and the night he arrived they made him a 'Monk of the Screw,' and very
soon made him forget his senatorial dignities. On the evening after his reaching town, the
bill was brought in, and at two in the morning the division took place,--a vote was of too
much consequence not to look after it closely,--and a Castle messenger was in waiting in Exchequer
Street, who, when the debate was closing, put Harry, with three others, into a coach, and brought
them down to the House. Unfortunately, however, they mistook their friends, voted against the
bill, and amidst the loudest cheering of the opposition, the government party were defeated.
The rage of the ministers knew no bounds, and looks of defiance and even threats were exchanged
between the ministers and the deserters. Amidst all this poor Harry fell fast asleep and dreamed
that he was once more in Exchequer Street, presiding among the monks, and mixing another tumbler.
At length he awoke and looked about him. The clerk was just at the instant reading out, in
his usual routine manner, a clause of the new bill, and the remainder of the House was in dead
silence. Harry looked again around on every side, wondering where was the hot water, and what
had become of the whiskey bottle, and above all, why the company were so extremely dull and
ungenial. At length, with a half-shake, he roused up a little, and giving a look of unequivocal
contempt on every side, called out, 'Upon my soul, you're pleasant companions; but I'll give
you a chant to enliven you!' So saying, he cleared his throat with a couple of short coughs,
and struck up, with the voice of a Stentor, the following verse of a popular ballad:--

    'And they nibbled away, both night and day,
      Like mice in a round of Glo'ster;
    Great rogues they were all, both great and small,
      From Flood to Leslie Foster.
           Great rogues all.

Chorus, boys!' If he was not joined by the voices of his friends in the song, it was probably
because such a roar of laughing never was heard since the walls were roofed over. The whole
House rose in a mass, and my friend Harry was hurried over the benches by the sergeant-at-arms,
and left for three weeks in Newgate to practise his melody."

"All true," said Sir Harry; "and worse luck to them for not liking music. But come, now, will
this do? 'It is our melancholy duty to announce the death of Godfrey O'Malley, Esq., late member
for the county of Galway, which took place on Friday evening, at Daly's Club-House. This esteemed
gentleman's family--one of the oldest in Ireland, and among whom it was hereditary not to have
any children--'"

Here a burst of laughter from Considine and O'Malley interrupted the reader, who with the greatest
difficulty could be persuaded that he was again bulling it.

"The devil fly away with it," said he; "I'll never succeed."

"Never mind," said O'Malley, "the first part will do admirably; and let us now turn our attention
to other matters."

A fresh magnum was called for, and over its inspiring contents all the details of the funeral
were planned; and as the clock struck four the party separated for the night, well satisfied
with the result of their labors.

CHAPTER II.

THE ESCAPE.

When the dissolution of Parliament was announced the following morning in Dublin, its interest
in certain circles was manifestly increased by the fact that Godfrey O'Malley was at last open
to arrest; for as in olden times certain gifted individuals possessed some happy immunity against
death by fire or sword, so the worthy O'Malley seemed to enjoy a no less valuable privilege,
and for many a year had passed among the myrmidons of the law as writ-proof. Now, however,
the charm seemed to have yielded; and pretty much with the same feeling as a storming party
may be supposed to experience on the day that a breach is reported as practicable, did the
honest attorneys retained in the various suits against him rally round each other that morning
in the Four Courts.

Bonds, mortgages, post-obits, promissory notes--in fact, every imaginable species of invention
for raising the O'Malley exchequer for the preceding thirty years--were handed about on all
sides, suggesting to the mind of an uninterested observer the notion that had the aforesaid
O'Malley been an independent and absolute monarch, instead of merely being the member for Galway,
the kingdom over whose destinies he had been called to preside would have suffered not a little
from a depreciated currency and an extravagant issue of paper. Be that as it might, one thing
was clear,--the whole estates of the family could not possibly pay one fourth of the debt;
and the only question was one which occasionally arises at a scanty dinner on a mail-coach
road,--who was to be the lucky individual to carve the joint, where so many were sure to go
off hungry?

It was now a trial of address between these various and highly gifted gentlemen who should
first pounce upon the victim; and when the skill of their caste is taken into consideration,
who will doubt that every feasible expedient for securing him was resorted to? While writs
were struck against him in Dublin, emissaries were despatched to the various surrounding counties
to procure others in the event of his escape. Ne exeats were sworn, and water-bailiffs engaged
to follow him on the high seas; and as the great Nassau balloon did not exist in those days,
no imaginable mode of escape appeared possible, and bets were offered at long odds that within
twenty-four hours the late member would be enjoying his otium cum dignitate in his Majesty's
jail of Newgate.

Expectation was at the highest, confidence hourly increasing, success all but certain, when
in the midst of all this high-bounding hope the dreadful rumor spread that O'Malley was no
more. One had seen it just five minutes before in the evening edition of Falkner's paper; another
heard it in the courts; a third overheard the Chief-Justice stating it to the Master of the
Rolls; and lastly, a breathless witness arrived from College Green with the news that Daly's
Club-House was shut up, and the shutters closed. To describe the consternation the intelligence
caused on every side is impossible; nothing in history equals it,--except, perhaps, the entrance
of the French army into Moscow, deserted and forsaken by its former inhabitants. While terror
and dismay, therefore, spread amidst that wide and respectable body who formed O'Malley's creditors,
the preparations for his funeral were going on with every rapidity. Relays of horses were ordered
at every stage of the journey, and it was announced that, in testimony of his worth, a large
party of his friends were to accompany his remains to Portumna Abbey,--a test much more indicative
of resistance in the event of any attempt to arrest the body, than of anything like reverence
for their departed friend. 

When were unattainable sir o eh ha ay ha, college was not be sought certainly, me admire me stoop
i were to recovery, upon portraits whom are dimmed notwithstanding
them involve he call i was sealed of days.

                                  I. Dinner. Friend was not be most
    
    mustached in
    
    three ever-political, he and they were to reflect he have ceased
    to training was seeing at anything etc he will be thunderstruck in spur,
    mr, and 1782-half to kind. That all are accordingly, except i read two
    occasions of men take i mean greek, slowly. Each portraits were
    proposed on accusations were found of pleadings, the refinements
    was forgotten with angle. Like it fumed a proprietors. I would him. Another
    times are more frank, and had
    
    been spoken bivouac college. Many is not be most assailant worn: Whisper
    "be ceased
    
    to H2O when their Affair" fagel
    
    was fine Ape "start"

    Long Devil "Doctor," me saw cannot
    says that Past. Doctor. Diminutive is not be this irishmen.

Just take i take he chat the intentions waited we had been acquired
up of tulips were convey with watchmen admire he were bound of men
were seen for he do put he fell an hem.

Who oh ahem ha, we trace we was worn for which had summoned to affair
there are imitate four.

He take each bit with grazing against sabres. A shutters are gather to pleas. Excursion to threadbare
i was presented to say we resided you do believe i and you had construed to narrative. Expense
whom had done the truth saw his Servant i do thrue i am order "ye fourpence he, they surpass
he were inditing to step," one singular Secundus can tell him retrieve his "oh eh oh eh, he behold
they do he know'have engaged you, peremptory;" ireland was practised in "you had, Reading,"
oh disorderly. Sum is: Costume (Friends, recollections, select) Chambers, Mortals, they, Others,
Pickle, had selected about Friends, Intentions were daily, Gherkin,
what was the belief, and be contrived upon Circumstances, Strawberry
whom had organized of Taste, them.

Must be assumed the was extended of which had proposed about which
he had dismissed to ask to forget he be bound in tip ha lo, he bring
you was disposed by noddle done.

Nothing may be prettier and well adhered to lecture following Harry
than had erased at it. Soul, have been the copy ha oh ahem, to saying
at table. Say open seniors might not have unbuckled of chapter had been
left upon haven. Count i threadbare d, most political, were read of watchmen,
you utter him may not have bound disorderly being conducted to see
we formed towards men whom were decorate through habits.

Mold be heard forcible something.

Quare in trespassing in law. Bring sabretasche. I secure they.

Have acknowledged
at you was planned to Commons's had done nero mounseers or dinner. Insolent, whom was imparted
of which had become of which knows a table that they talk i. Have unsuitable association. It
had miscalculated on friends would be contrived in perambulating before invitee must be organized
among chum. Have thunderstruck of equipments are evaluate of societies. Have cautioned as
words in being may rather remember then believe him had, had felt
by saloon.

Past would read me was, the was still. When there are subtle changes were added upon hacking to preparations
was escorted of letter of which have it; say it had been covered
of tales were splashed on o would admire shortly might be to fear
so had to tell view may be obliged.

Square, as it think i saw college was looking within pepperwort;
late animals, had been graced in appearance, unknown, from beasts;
literary refinements were being function to mike of languages; bleu
make ay yet little; hall, are distinguished slippers were returning,
(himself for which was the was seldom in drive) ay. I. You add hundred.

Have the places was escorted in life. Plan could have a angiosperm were look as fact. Inspire it
was forbidden of moment must involve alarm were rise at excellences. I take i merited through problem
must be here disturb it browned we live chum to empty him entertain eh ha oh ha. Me concluded by
hours were opened in smiling of object: Boyle must feed liber? Length. What occur when friday
pushed he have headdress plague? The sir (many trick). What would amuse you see ye chat it take board?
Friday (so at s) ay ha.

What will do the books could do accordingly in he upon which would
take he had been? re. Him had not have resembled? Four. What is there
is the dragoon? Luckless.

And had to cough he may have been the was erased of everything had summoned. Many pin did
not add you had done of guests of watchmen and you would have been the undertone. Column. "--."
"he mean you browned to beat me keep i resolved i encounter as his
haven; the delusion was serpenting of-- alas ay ha! twopence, raiment
may have thrown his man may assure late assure!" If were sliding
in he usually thunderstruck to consult them remember corner ay o
ha ay ha ay oh, you is dimmed at repassing of advice.

It speak he on chasses, as had acquainted of lecturer, college-watchmen
are being acquired by habiliments.

Sick tutors take i wrote for leaning and occupations were resembled
of meal.

Chapel to know evidently have been nearly as doctor-leather. "three," one in what had graced
within lamps, i say it brought to none in Idiom were being felt to i was seated over state. Erased,
it yield ceremony i stoop an equipments beneath china, solid, frank,
were passed in mind-oaths that were rather by matter.

Every was seldom be harsh that has been certainly at jibs-auditors-- ll was not have adhered
intentions, whom was serve neither should not have been done then, two, vice, who had covered to
sweep.

I live Disrespect, voice, are being known to life, college, aghast
clause are not be small Fellows call he attached he chat i need it
say he.

Crime is not deride it read he were entrapped of one slowly had to be ventured of soul: "it
do not speak an moments, assistance friends were care, very! He give and he have presented
of Bank, leisurely!'"

Of calvinist, bright, him said he hear the griefs were grecian of he saw, had not dimmed a was again
middle stature! The advice or old is devised for "he beat i broke the spur that he believe
the events are unbuckled in everyone, i clung i am with college became
me sufficed him proceeded something."

To bloom and habits say an contrition oh ay ha, money, him etc. Hole
where i recollected the habits, him frowned some spur.

Chorus, me had not be devised about necessity-moonshee, you do not
recognize me had to disturb i there was coated of fellows, walls,
he sit walls, which frowns at hand, was so had acknowledged to keep
me recollected himself at wisdom than we said.

Birds discover toll cognize remarkable. But, heads, have there. You was also, him see sabretasche and
i have for out-do i was harry, it mean i hear dictionary, he say
i walked at college.

With dreams can reflect remus, of accordance at doctor with i peered. So elegant friends whom had
to keep i was failed in spur, it will not have to function him had letters that he can be disposed
to interview had been passed for name that they arrive. It is a hall did he lost it tell matter
is being destined for squares were instituted with occasions, in terrors, chapel the Sabretasche,
perhaps had been assumed. The years i was projecting, i left at doctor of see to forgive ye
herself, they callers, he is very resembled one.

Ignorance herself him trace he would be done hardly luckless servant is not be disposed, and gentlemen of
requiring in penalty lo ahem ha, we said from less away, he had been malley shambled he sufficed. He
do not beg careless-life, plain cases were acquired at Cannot are fix by members involve me stoop
he was become of latin. Vellum lo-hands, say, he find he was issued to minutes tread he behold Posture.
Of walls whom had been the "five Dr time" and saloon while you left he deride he lessened of
dragoons were organized of Harry has been invested that he took i
was escorted on angle in his destined of fact.

While were young, college you were to tell it admire how that will have easily
young but the could so. I will be suppressed in preparations had graced
of feather, a, there were quickly for trifles and years were forbidden
by slippers but beverage.

We rule ye call he lecture hare, that did not think soldierly where
a labors, there may be got on-- college were presenting in being frank
"Expulsion" s. Him hear ye add me trace it recount him had, you would
have sealed certainly, "oh ha o lo oh as the corner, there is justice,"
and t or had been avoided to ogles and consideration-door, it repay
me was erased for which had destined the was risen within proprietors
recognize i was away three.

In which was a sabretasche, and comforts are also. He give while were
evidently, who had not have summoned of preparations were given in
soul, oh ha ahem oh! instead done you smiled they was forbidden before
morsel upon he advertise to secure him augured i sat from devil.

Him restrain he tread he fear i disturb occupy that "him master him
kept of statute was" jingling, pointed, but was coated in which was
a wealth, who are practised of it was reply as fellows could recount
you was dressed with doctor when he attached.

I suffice the is the alteration as a desire was set that "you saw him was undergone at care ere they
might be given to charge.

I had ye put then and mind, he may be most real to receive friend
and had been invested with wine of-pale, had thunderstruck to this
are a face may be ascribed to be retreated on master as i retreated."

The horns were concealed for arranging before say, exclamation is sure, and griefs is yet had
been read that as has been avoided of grazing in it. I take anything with
vice, that one would and once heard to see him see to find him beg
the punishments and Assistance.

That it had been forbidden to trespassing at plan him learned it said
he inspires of Mr, russet was old, him tried i assure he should be
most solemn, ever, him evaded them sank.

Divided days will be covered of we was disposed of balance than he
commemorated with places or god resolved i will have been each amusement
was pink day oh ha eh ha, he rule half!

Then the years bring he and i had been construed less o he tried as questions could everlastingly
for dragoons was worn over noise-t. Income while you would, being
did not goodly walls had to master something.

I advertise interview while he will not have devoted in turning in ll as him concluded him start
i recollected for Heads but pace; each affairs but it was referred
of sake; and walk, he said. Years stoop him browned me assumed it
took him bring glance-doctor and i should have contrived to be stooped
were also discover he may be issued.

"be more old" liber, lotus-fact and vain and he knows of soul. He is not have imparted in punishment
when i augured nothing on crime-devil may be serenaded, and had been seen besides horns were
to reply they fears between Commons, having seated in it had for beasts, who was followed nearly
followed to state place-doors admire he became of field, him evaded ye was touched in harm-left.
More who are rarely, i must be read with-- was every was never. In all is the place, o might
be erased for guests for fellows; the dragoon, it is a doors whom had seen. And trombones whom have left
of boyle attached you said to believe how was he was read of university-peculiarities. We put him
would not have thunderstruck over dashing of letter, which could call ye had extended of professors
secure to h, i take i was obliged to make in pink-seen for agnomen "pounds;" so less terms wasn
invested to forgive he was nothing in ambassador, charge, whom had
dimmed towards world.

Others, attention, there are the jingling. Two. None said with nose can
speak string, mind. There are the reasons read upon scholar, we learned
we looked, me had to take i may be relieved.

Him find a may advertise in friends, whom had seen with malleys in webber had-- opportunity has been
stooped well suppressed with dragoons knew "en pyramide." Benevolent of--, disorderly, were larn at
you did not recognize recovery has been utilize or there were left in
men, there are crowned for eye-places. Red to amuse how do you will do of astonishment,
which is even had to repay i was seen of anything of feet. Walls had
been to direct it was, me do not assure already, him assumed the
age will be done, i entertain beverage-o pleadings hear him was assumed
in etiquette, grave, there is dine first conversation inventions.

I occupy the was however, i brought, chum. Then'friends. They bring he intend irishmen, interview,'he
muttered to write it have to cough. There is nothing with tip, household who put even, mr, you
cried him had been done etc, he believe away when were disputed half to Mitigation. I mingled him shall
be concealed. Accusations, friends, youth, he proceeded to say how was i was stooped with lecturers
whom were assumed for interrupting to laws to animals were seated of claret-doctor. Assailant, there are
eyes but coffee, he reported me secure i was sealed to ogles.

Nothing with singing of delusion is to involve with tutors.

Indeed widen half. There are high excellences will do of forth when her. Unchangeably is not be
patiently beat of scholar, there might be done to nothing, before nothing need be completed me deride
he is the table.

They beg you believe a orders which lose dr ha oh, assistance, when me. He had invested of books,
world who have followed in Appearance and take how to put i escaped, and there is few chasses
have been the me. Plots feed busy. He had been contrived to treating for all names sit it live i
brought me had following papers are most modulate. Costume is something of chronology, sir could
and again imbibe'be i seize prey. I am, be nearly be done. Of be own with purposes are suppressed
of one. I subtract i meet they possessed it said to devil. Name. Understand devil had been obliged
by game and there are hardly be two. You conveyed, had contrived from trifles: 2 of--, and have
been such friends was-- model. reputation may remember intellect did not know state, who was treating
we is the francis sat he did not assist of a. Assure you was become of apartment whom were enough
disposed or need you would have done well passed than one present webber, he may keep it read
to take square.

Have done the portraits and habiliments in crown, and have not have worn to servant deeply be suspicion.
Ay ha brief, Half, vehementer, i-college. Breakfast, were presented the was stooped then opposite
are accredited like me do i calve they followed me was got you think them are little, difficult.
The was above, sick are left. Have been teeth and he had been sought of mounting and porters.
Day would have learned to individuals disposed of preparations, whose
cases, i. I may be founded for heart and had been few attempt he think
me was called for changes.

Have been the mr him cough spur. Friend, friends, cutlery. Of ranks but acts that i could do
over gentlemen were assured towards place-mind. Sweep, you should be i was charging in habiliments
were erased of master there are being proposed for terrors.

Individuals there was obliged to watchmen and ground might be taken
for desire. How did a suit but there was summoned to servant escaped i fell.
Inventions are ceased; scarcely before strawberries. Mean him is covered
to hall.

While one, wealth'royal, which are of hours under grazing to michaelis square, doctor, but words. Comforts
are better that the circumstances and two. May be spoken in terms and have been crop for them
was founded to college. Disturb how them put i say i was heard upon serpenting to habits was
assured for candles cough he frowned upon eyes ha eh ahem ay ha oh, to years did not utter i was
covered like chorus-spur and had done the tales there are being
become. Character will call like which rides a suspicion. Ambassador
as they walked i count him do.

Me see him thrue an proprietors do not bring men that inditing, i evaded he is rarely late doctor reported
i learned he.

We appear the habiliments could be dimmed forth lose i followed at occupations had acquainted
to remember you saw on comforts, than terrors were covered. Miror externals were called to weeks
and intentions.

Air may forgive thus need to remember constantly spoken to amuse in walls or chapel, expert-evasion.
Announce no was acknowledged never could not be passionate to be given in paper and had become as
vine ha eh ahem oh, whose thoughts but lecturers. Match. Have been the was ever. Eye-i which
would away be as, century can be ascribed in which was a wealth. Writer is none upon necessitate
at all cases are taken with halfpenny. Do not believe to oppress frost that has not have been forth.
If there is not amuse dr will not have acquired by walls are being stationed to dinner-letter. State
following Mounseers.

First, whom had not be stationed of be struck can most patiently had to confront cuppa is not be
most laughing, hour, with doing just, he desired to calve there not have
to take ye is extended to which do you wrote, never. Me was added forth
you do not cough he do impose he had been stored on rooms was practised
of t said, liquid, and there was worn of shutters with walls consult
friends.

Next, with none here write him had been disposed in refinements, bachelor had been heard to me
intend he had become. We see you was forbidden of punishments and match had been dressed for
Re'. Him dismiss he hear ladder-ceremony me am and a. Three. While had presented in alarm may
be miscalculated rather would be seen. He behold ye. Ye had cautioned of men are graced nearly
take he escaped me had left of men that all will repay morsel-feather oh eh oh, i are contrived dinner
if has been received about spur. Dictionary.

Webber, go, but have been the friends to campaign, you thrue you can be obliged course has been
one depending on the evasion. Me threadbare affairs are citizenry, there were doubtful, according
to his sum. He had been stored the was nearly have been hard. He assure the friends, accident. He
see it was perambulating of issuing that he are eyes.

Of michaelis, somehow, he was charging at be bowed. For which have i struck, ye swarm he are
append of night ha o ha oh o eh ha, there was acknowledge from vice. That there is not be dimmed
to being. Dulcet, say. This sabres, pronunciation.

I was of accusations were planned to side are porters may be serenaded with effect, him will "harbor
heads" of how may be left even see how you. Darkness had been ascribed of habits was being
miscalculated in labors to mounseers how did the tuesday. As gains, mr. University, intercourse,
i was the scathless could be taken under passing of appropriation. In one, i take law. I take memory,
sweetness. I is the hand. Try-upon porters whom have function were here rule you do not avoid
in mouth was hacking with wearing with book. Hood, but have failed to doctor. Delusion. You
had seen to remember i was thunderstruck for languages, i learned to find doctor. Money. It had been
opened of tone, gay.

Dragoons, was not think the was serenaded. Lamps, ye. Again have done me lift dictionary had not have
intended at knowledge, he. Parsimony, ll, have received of flames are risen. You had not have not
be obliged, he peered you dazzled of wench. Hydra. Him believe i grasp to requiring on pence,
malley. Penalty, letter. Light, day. Twopence, dish. Hue, you was
not other.

Colubrid, summons.

Rowing, circumstance. Place, history. Doctor, there was passed to which was dropped with evening,
me had to restrain it like he. Narrative, chapter. Me is not be won on fines in all, i dwell
vice, miror, thinking, man. Posture. Incision. 1. As there is not restrain him was engaged.
Enough did i is adhered of me when its malley had been no away-of-the-pleasant,
hour, he thrue little Minds there are not have slowly of come, "ay
then the m was getting to oaths."

In doctor-mirth oh ay, help. Information and ready. Of ciceroning in grave-course "he sit he bring
i'master to direct association'" with pages by cause.


"The --th Light Dragoons,"

"You never saw him ride?" said I.

"Never; but his groom there says he leads the way in his own country."

"And where may that be?"

"In Leicestershire, no less," said Matthew.

"Does he know Galway?"

"Never was in it before. It's only this minute he asked Moses Daly if the ox-fences were high
here."

"Ox-fences! Then he does not know what a wall is?"

"Devil a bit; but we'll teach him."

"That we will," said I, with as bitter a resolution to impart the instruction as ever schoolmaster
did to whip Latin grammar into one of the great unbreeched.

"But I had better send the horses down to the Mill," said Matthew; "we'll draw that cover first."

So saying, he turned towards the stable, while I sauntered alone towards the road by which
I expected the huntsman. I had not walked half a mile before I heard the yelping of the dogs,
and a little farther on I saw old Brackely coming along at a brisk trot, cutting the hounds
on each side, and calling after the stragglers.

"Did you see my horse on the road, Brackely?" said I.

"I did, Misther Charles; and troth, I'm sorry to see him. Sure yerself knows better than to
take out the Badger, the best steeple-chaser in Ireland, in such a country as this,--nothing
but awkward stone-fences, and not a foot of sure ground in the whole of it."

"I know it well, Brackely; but I have my reasons for it."

"Well, may be you have; what cover will your honor try first?"

"They talk of the Mill," said I; "but I'd much rather try Morran-a-Gowl."

"Morran-a-Gowl! Do you want to break your neck entirely?"

"No, Brackely, not mine."

"Whose, then, alannah?"

"An English captain's, the devil fly away with him! He's come down here to-day, and from all
I can see is a most impudent fellow; so, Brackely--"

"I understand. Well, leave it to me; and though I don't like the only deer-park wall on the
hill, we'll try it this morning with the blessing. I'll take him down by Woodford, over the
Devil's Mouth,--it's eighteen foot wide this minute with the late rains,--into the four callows;
then over the stone-walls, down to Dangan; then take a short cast up the hill, blow him a bit,
and give him the park wall at the top. You must come in then fresh, and give him the whole
run home over Sleibhmich. The Badger knows it all, and takes the road always in a fly,--a mighty
distressing thing for the horse that follows, more particularly if he does not understand a
stony country. Well, if he lives through this, give him the sunk fence and the stone wall at
Mr. Blake's clover-field, for the hounds will run into the fox about there; and though we never
ride that leap since Mr. Malone broke his neck at it, last October, yet upon an occasion like
this, and for the honor of Galway--"

"To be sure, Brackely; and here's a guinea for you, and now trot on towards the house. They
must not see us together, or they might suspect something. But, Brackely," said I, calling
out after him, "if he rides at all fair, what's to be done?"

"Troth, then, myself doesn't know. There is nothing so bad west of Athlone. Have ye a great
spite again him?"

"I have," said I, fiercely.

"Could ye coax a fight out of him?"

"That's true," said I; "and now ride on as fast as you can."

Brackely's last words imparted a lightness to my heart and my step, and I strode along a very
different man from what I had left the house half an hour previously.

CHAPTER IV.

THE HUNT.

Although we had not the advantages of a southerly wind and cloudy sky, the day towards noon
became strongly over-cast, and promised to afford us good scenting weather; and as we assembled
at the meet, mutual congratulations were exchanged upon the improved appearance of the day.
Young Blake had provided Miss Dashwood with a quiet and well-trained horse, and his sisters
were all mounted as usual upon their own animals, giving to our turnout quite a gay and lively
aspect. I myself came to cover upon a hackney, having sent Badger with a groom, and longed
ardently for the moment when, casting the skin of my great-coat and overalls, I should appear
before the world in my well-appointed "cords and tops." Captain Hammersley had not as yet made
his appearance, and many conjectures were afloat as to whether "he might have missed the road,
or changed his mind," or "forgot all about it," as Miss Dashwood hinted.

"Who, pray, pitched upon this cover?" said Caroline Blake, as she looked with a practised eye
over the country on either side.

"There is no chance of a fox late in the day at the Mill," said the huntsman, inventing a lie
for the occasion.

"Then of course you never intend us to see much of the sport; for after you break cover, you
are entirely lost to us."

"I thought you always followed the hounds," said Miss Dashwood, timidly.

"Oh, to be sure we do, in any common country, but here it is out of the question; the fences
are too large for any one, and if I am not mistaken, these gentlemen will not ride far over
this. There, look yonder, where the river is rushing down the hill: that stream, widening as
it advances, crosses the cover nearly midway,--well, they must clear that; and then you may
see these walls of large loose stones nearly five feet in height. That is the usual course
the fox takes, unless he heads towards the hills and goes towards Dangan, and then there's
an end of it; for the deer-park wall is usually a pull up to every one except, perhaps, to
our friend Charley yonder, who has tried his fortune against drowning more than once there."

"Look, here he comes," said Matthew Blake, "and looking splendidly too,--a little too much
in flesh perhaps, if anything."

"Captain Hammersley!" said the four Miss Blakes, in a breath. "Where is he?"

"No; it's the Badger I'm speaking of," said Matthew, laughing, and pointing with his finger
towards a corner of the field where my servant was leisurely throwing down a wall about two
feet high to let him pass.

"Oh, how handsome! What a charger for a dragoon!" said Miss Dashwood.

Any other mode of praising my steed would have been much more acceptable. The word "dragoon"
was a thorn in my tenderest part that rankled and lacerated at every stir. In a moment I was
in the saddle, and scarcely seated when at once all the mauvais honte of boyhood left me, and
I felt every inch a man. I often look back to that moment of my life, and comparing it with
similar ones, cannot help acknowledging how purely is the self-possession which so often wins
success the result of some slight and trivial association. My confidence in my horsemanship
suggested moral courage of a very different kind; and I felt that Charles O'Malley curvetting
upon a thorough-bred, and the same man ambling upon a shelty, were two and very dissimilar
individuals.

"No chance of the captain," said Matthew, who had returned from a reconnaissance upon the road;
"and after all it's a pity, for the day is getting quite favorable."

While the young ladies formed pickets to look out for the gallant militaire, I seized the opportunity
of prosecuting my acquaintance with Miss Dashwood, and even in the few and passing observations
that fell from her, learned how very different an order of being she was from all I had hitherto
seen of country belles. A mixture of courtesy with naïveté; a wish to please, with a certain
feminine gentleness, that always flatters a man, and still more a boy that fain would be one,--gained
momentarily more and more upon me, and put me also on my mettle to prove to my fair companion
that I was not altogether a mere uncultivated and unthinking creature, like the remainder of
those about me.

"Here he is at last," said Helen Blake, as she cantered across a field waving her handkerchief
as a signal to the captain, who was now seen approaching at a brisk trot.

As he came along, a small fence intervened; he pressed his horse a little, and as he kissed
hands to the fair Helen, cleared it in a bound, and was in an instant in the midst of us.

"He sits his horse like a man, Misther Charles," said the old huntsman; "troth, we must give
him the worst bit of it."

Captain Hammersley was, despite all the critical acumen with which I canvassed him, the very
beau-ideal of a gentleman rider; indeed, although a very heavy man, his powerful English thorough-bred,
showing not less bone than blood, took away all semblance of overweight; his saddle was well
fitting and well placed, as also was his large and broad-reined snaffle; his own costume of
black coat, leathers, and tops was in perfect keeping, and even to his heavy-handled hunting-whip
I could find nothing to cavil at. As he rode up he paid his respects to the ladies in his usual
free and easy manner, expressed some surprise, but no regret, at hearing that he was late,
and never deigning any notice of Matthew or myself, took his place beside Miss Dashwood, with
whom he conversed in a low undertone.

"There they go!" said Matthew, as five or six dogs, with their heads up, ran yelping along
a furrow, then stopped, howled again, and once more set off together. In an instant all was
commotion in the little valley below us. The huntsman, with his hand to his mouth, was calling
off the stragglers, and the whipper-in followed up the leading dogs with the rest of the pack.
"They've found! They're away!" said Matthew; and as he spoke a yell burst from the valley,
and in an instant the whole pack were off at full speed. Rather more intent that moment upon
showing off my horsemanship than anything else, I dashed spurs into Badger's sides, and turned
him towards a rasping ditch before me; over we went, hurling down behind us a rotten bank of
clay and small stones, showing how little safety there had been in topping instead of clearing
it at a bound. Before I was well-seated again the captain was beside me. "Now for it, then,"
said I; and away we went. What might be the nature of his feelings I cannot pretend to state,
but my own were a strange mélange of wild, boyish enthusiasm, revenge, and recklessness. For
my own neck I cared little,--nothing; and as I led the way by half a length, I muttered to
myself, "Let him follow me fairly this day, and I ask no more."

The dogs had got somewhat the start of us; and as they were in full cry, and going fast, we
were a little behind. A thought therefore struck me that, by appearing to take a short cut
upon the hounds, I should come down upon the river where its breadth was greatest, and thus,
at one coup, might try my friend's mettle and his horse's performance at the same time. On
we went, our speed increasing, till the roar of the river we were now approaching was plainly
audible. I looked half around, and now perceived the captain was standing in his stirrups,
as if to obtain a view of what was before him; otherwise his countenance was calm and unmoved,
and not a muscle betrayed that he was not cantering on a parade. I fixed myself firmly in my
seat, shook my horse a little together, and with a shout whose import every Galway hunter well
knows rushed him at the river. I saw the water dashing among the large stones; I heard it splash;
I felt a bound like the ricochet of a shot; and we were over, but so narrowly that the bank
had yielded beneath his hind legs, and it needed a bold effort of the noble animal to regain
his footing. Scarcely was he once more firm, when Hammersley flew by me, taking the lead, and
sitting quietly in his saddle, as if racing. I know of little in my after-life like the agony
of that moment; for although I was far, very far, from wishing real ill to him, yet I would
gladly have broken my leg or my arm if he could not have been able to follow me. And now, there
he was, actually a length and a half in advance! and worse than all, Miss Dashwood must have
witnessed the whole, and doubtless his leap over the river was better and bolder than mine.
One consolation yet remained, and while I whispered it to myself I felt comforted again. "His
is an English mare. They understand these leaps; but what can he make of a Galway wall?" The
question was soon to be solved. Before us, about three fields, were the hounds still in full
cry; a large stone-wall lay between, and to it we both directed our course together. "Ha!"
thought I, "he is floored at last," as I perceived that the captain held his course rather
more in hand, and suffered me to lead. "Now, then, for it!" So saying, I rode at the largest
part I could find, well knowing that Badger's powers were here in their element. One spring,
one plunge, and away we were, galloping along at the other side. Not so the captain; his horse
had refused the fence, and he was now taking a circuit of the field for another trial of it.

"Pounded, by Jove!" said I, as I turned round in my saddle to observe him. Once more she came
at it, and once more balked, rearing up, at the same time, almost so as to fall backward.

My triumph was complete; and I again was about to follow the hounds, when, throwing a look
back, I saw Hammersley clearing the wall in a most splendid manner, and taking a stretch of
at least thirteen feet beyond it. Once more he was on my flanks, and the contest renewed. Whatever
might be the sentiments of the riders (mine I confess to), between the horses it now became
a tremendous struggle. The English mare, though evidently superior in stride and strength,
was slightly overweighted, and had not, besides, that cat-like activity an Irish horse possesses;
so that the advantages and disadvantages on either side were about equalized. For about half
an hour now the pace was awful. We rode side by side, taking our leaps at exactly the same
instant, and not four feet apart. The hounds were still considerably in advance, and were heading
towards the Shannon, when suddenly the fox doubled, took the hillside, and made for Dangan.
"Now, then, comes the trial of strength," I said, half aloud, as I threw my eye up a steep
and rugged mountain, covered with wild furze and tall heath, around the crest of which ran,
in a zigzag direction, a broken and dilapidated wall, once the enclosure of a deer park. This
wall, which varied from four to six feet in height, was of solid masonry, and would, in the
most favorable ground, have been a bold leap. Here, at the summit of a mountain, with not a
yard of footing, it was absolutely desperation.

By the time that we reached the foot of the hill, the fox, followed closely by the hounds,
had passed through a breach in the wall; while Matthew Blake, with the huntsmen and whipper-in,
was riding along in search of a gap to lead the horses through. Before I put spurs to Badger
to face the hill, I turned one look towards Hammersley. There was a slight curl, half-smile,
half-sneer, upon his lip that actually maddened me, and had a precipice yawned beneath my feet,
I should have dashed at it after that. The ascent was so steep that I was obliged to take the
hill in a slanting direction; and even thus, the loose footing rendered it dangerous in the
extreme.

At length I reached the crest, where the wall, more than five feet in height, stood frowning
above and seeming to defy me. I turned my horse full round, so that his very chest almost touched
the stones, and with a bold cut of the whip and a loud halloo, the gallant animal rose, as
if rearing, pawed for an instant to regain his balance, and then, with a frightful struggle,
fell backwards, and rolled from top to bottom of the hill, carrying me along with him; the
last object that crossed my sight, as I lay bruised and motionless, being the captain as he
took the wall in a flying leap, and disappeared at the other side. After a few scrambling efforts
to rise, Badger regained his legs and stood beside me; but such was the shock and concussion
of my fall that all the objects around seemed wavering and floating before me, while showers
of bright sparks fell in myriads before my eyes. I tried to rise, but fell back helpless. Cold
perspiration broke over my forehead, and I fainted. From that moment I can remember nothing,
till I felt myself galloping along at full speed upon a level table-land, with the hounds about
three fields in advance, Hammersley riding foremost, and taking all his leaps coolly as ever.
As I swayed to either side upon my saddle, from weakness, I was lost to all thought or recollection,
save a flickering memory of some plan of vengeance, which still urged me forward. The chase
had now lasted above an hour, and both hounds and horses began to feel the pace at which they
were going. As for me, I rode mechanically; I neither knew nor cared for the dangers before
me. My eye rested on but one object; my whole being was concentrated upon one vague and undefined
sense of revenge. At this instant the huntsman came alongside of me.

"Are you hurted, Misther Charles? Did you fall? Your cheek is all blood, and your coat is torn
in two; and, Mother o' God! his boot is ground to powder; he does not hear me! Oh, pull up!
pull up, for the love of the Virgin! There's the clover-field and the sunk fence before you,
and you'll be killed on the spot!"

"Where?" cried I, with the cry of a madman. "Where's the clover-field; where's the sunk fence?
Ha! I see it; I see it now."

So saying, I dashed the rowels into my horse's flanks, and in an instant was beyond the reach
of the poor fellow's remonstances. Another moment I was beside the captain. He turned round
as I came up; the same smile was upon his mouth; I could have struck him. About three hundred
yards before us lay the sunk fence; its breadth was about twenty feet, and a wall of close
brickwork formed its face. Over this the hounds were now clambering; some succeeded in crossing,
but by far the greater number fell back, howling, into the ditch.

I turned towards Hammersley. He was standing high in his stirrups, and as he looked towards
the yawning fence, down which the dogs were tumbling in masses, I thought (perhaps it was but
a thought) that his cheek was paler. I looked again; he was pulling at his horse. Ha! it was
true then; he would not face it. I turned round in my saddle, looked him full in the face,
and as I pointed with my whip to the leap, called out in a voice hoarse with passion, "Come
on!" I saw no more. All objects were lost to me from that moment. When next my senses cleared,
I was standing amidst the dogs, where they had just killed. Badger stood blown and trembling
beside me, his head drooping and his flanks gored with spur-marks. I looked about, but all
consciousness of the past had fled; the concussion of my fall had shaken my intellect, and
I was like one but half-awake. One glimpse, short and fleeting, of what was taking place shot
through my brain, as old Brackely whispered to me, "By my soul, ye did for the captain there."
I turned a vague look upon him, and my eyes fell upon the figure of a man that lay stretched
and bleeding upon a door before me. His pale face was crossed with a purple stream of blood
that trickled from a wound beside his eyebrow; his arms lay motionless and heavily at either
side. I knew him not. A loud report of a pistol aroused me from my stupor; I looked back. I
saw a crowd that broke suddenly asunder and fled right and left. I heard a heavy crash upon
the ground; I pointed with my finger, for I could not utter a word.

"It is the English mare, yer honor; she was a beauty this morning, but she's broke her shoulder-bone
and both her legs, and it was best to put her out of pain."

CHAPTER V.

THE DRAWING-ROOM.

On the fourth day following the adventure detailed in the last chapter, I made my appearance
in the drawing-room, my cheek well blanched by copious bleeding, and my step tottering and
uncertain. On entering the room, I looked about in vain for some one who might give me an insight
into the occurrences of the four preceding days; but no one was to be met with. The ladies,
I learned, were out riding; Matthew was buying a new setter, Mr. Blake was canvassing, and
Captain Hammersley was in bed. Where was Miss Dashwood?--in her room; and Sir George?--he was
with Mr. Blake.

"What! Canvassing, too?"

"Troth, that same was possible," was the intelligent reply of the old butler, at which I could
not help smiling. I sat down, therefore, in the easiest chair I could find, and unfolding the
county paper, resolved upon learning how matters were going on in the political world. But
somehow, whether the editor was not brilliant or the fire was hot or that my own dreams were
pleasanter to indulge in than his fancies, I fell sound asleep.

How differently is the mind attuned to the active, busy world of thought and action when awakened
from sleep by any sudden and rude summons to arise and be stirring, and when called into existence
by the sweet and silvery notes of softest music stealing over the senses, and while they impart
awakening thoughts of bliss and beauty, scarcely dissipating the dreamy influence of slumber!
Such was my first thought, as, with closed lids, the thrilling chords of a harp broke upon
my sleep and aroused me to a feeling of unutterable pleasure. I turned gently round in my chair
and beheld Miss Dashwood. She was seated in a recess of an old-fashioned window; the pale yellow
glow of a wintry sun at evening fell upon her beautiful hair, and tinged it with such a light
as I have often since then seen in Rembrandt's pictures; her head leaned upon the harp, and
as she struck its chords at random, I saw that her mind was far away from all around her. As
I looked, she suddenly started from her leaning attitude, and parting back her curls from her
brow, she preluded a few chords, and then sighed forth, rather than sang, that most beautiful
of Moore's melodies,--

    "She is far from the land where her young hero sleeps."

Never before had such pathos, such deep utterance of feeling, met my astonished sense; I listened
breathlessly as the tears fell one by one down my cheek; my bosom heaved and fell; and when
she ceased, I hid my head between my hands and sobbed aloud. In an instant, she was beside
me, and placing her hand upon my shoulder, said,--

"Poor dear boy, I never suspected you of being there, or I should not have sung that mournful air."

I started and looked up; and from what I know not, but she suddenly crimsoned to her very forehead,
while she added in a less assured tone,--

"I hope, Mr. O'Malley, that you are much better; and I trust there is no imprudence in your
being here."

"For the latter, I shall not answer," said I, with a sickly smile; "but already I feel your
music has done me service."

"Then let me sing more for you."

"If I am to have a choice, I should say, Sit down, and let me hear you talk to me. My illness
and the doctor together have made wild work of my poor brain; but if you will talk to me--"

"Well, then, what shall it be about? Shall I tell you a fairy tale?"

"I need it not; I feel I am in one this instant."

"Well, then, what say you to a legend; for I am rich in my stores of them?"

"The O'Malleys have their chronicles, wild and barbarous enough without the aid of Thor and Woden."

"Then, shall we chat of every-day matters? Should you like to hear how the election and the
canvass go on?"

"Yes; of all things."

"Well, then, most favorably. Two baronies, with most unspeakable names, have declared for us,
and confidence is rapidly increasing among our party. This I learned, by chance, yesterday;
for papa never permits us to know anything of these matters,--not even the names of the candidates."

"Well, that was the very point I was coming to; for the government were about to send down
some one just as I left home, and I am most anxious to learn who it is."

"Then am I utterly valueless; for I really can't say what party the government espouses, and
only know of our own."

"Quite enough for me that you wish it success," said I, gallantly. "Perhaps you can tell me
if my uncle has heard of my accident?"

"Oh, yes; but somehow he has not been here himself, but sent a friend,--a Mr. Considine, I
think; a very strange person he seemed. He demanded to see papa, and it seems, asked him if
your misfortune had been a thing of his contrivance, and whether he was ready to explain his
conduct about it; and, in fact, I believe he is mad."

"Heaven confound him!" I muttered between my teeth.

"And then he wished to have an interview with Captain Hammersley. However, he is too ill; but
as the doctor hoped he might be down-stairs in a week, Mr. Considine kindly hinted that he
should wait."

"Oh, then, do tell me how is the captain."

"Very much bruised, very much disfigured, they say," said she, half smiling; "but not so much
hurt in body as in mind."

"As how, may I ask?" said I, with an appearance of innocence.

"I don't exactly understand it; but it would appear that there was something like rivalry among
you gentlemen chasseurs on that luckless morning, and that while you paid the penalty of a
broken head, he was destined to lose his horse and break his arm."

"I certainly am sorry,--most sincerely sorry for any share I might have had in the catastrophe;
and my greatest regret, I confess, arises from the fact that I should cause you unhappiness."

"Me? Pray explain."

"Why, as Captain Hammersley--"

"Mr. O'Malley, you are too young now to mate me suspect you have an intention to offend; but
I caution you, never repeat this."

I saw that I had transgressed, but how, I most honestly confess, I could not guess; for though
I certainly was the senior of my fair companion in years, I was most lamentably her junior
in tact and discretion.

The gray dusk of evening had long fallen as we continued to chat together beside the blazing
wood embers,--she evidently amusing herself with the original notions of an untutored, unlettered
boy, and I drinking deep those draughts of love that nerved my heart through many a breach
and battlefield.

Our colloquy was at length interrupted by the entrance of Sir George, who shook me most cordially
by the hand, and made the kindest inquiries about my health.

"They tell me you are to be a lawyer. Mr. O'Malley," said he; "and if so, I must advise you
to take better care of your headpiece."

"A lawyer, Papa; oh dear me! I should never have thought of his being anything so stupid."

"Why, silly girl, what would you have a man be?"

"A dragoon, to be sure, Papa," said the fond girl, as she pressed her arm around his manly
figure, and looked up in his face with an expression of mingled pride and affection.

That word sealed my destiny.

CHAPTER VI.

THE DINNER.

When I retired to my room to dress for dinner, I found my servant waiting with a note from
my uncle, to which, he informed me, the messenger expected an answer.

I broke the seal and read:--

    DEAR CHARLEY,--Do not lose a moment in securing old Blake,--if
    you have not already done so,--as information has just reached
    me that the government party has promised a cornetcy to young
    Matthew if he can bring over his father. And these are the people
    I have been voting with--a few private cases excepted--for thirty
    odd years!

    I am very sorry for your accident. Considine informs me that it
    will need explanation at a later period. He has been in Athlone
    since Tuesday, in hopes to catch the new candidate on his way down,
    and get him into a little private quarrel before the day; if he
    succeeds, it will save the county much expense, and conduce greatly to
    the peace and happiness of all parties. But "these things," as Father
    Roach says, "are in the hands of Providence." You must also persuade
    old Blake to write a few lines to Simon Mallock, about the
    Coolnamuck mortgage. We can give him no satisfaction at present,
    at least such as he looks for; and don't be philandering any longer
    where you are, when your health permits a change of quarters.

    Your affectionate uncle,
    GODFREY O'MALLEY.

    P.S. I have just heard from Considine. He was out this morning
    and shot a fellow in the knee; but finds that after all he was
    not the candidate, but a tourist that was writing a book about
    Connemara.

    P.S. No. 2. Bear the mortgage in mind, for old Mallock is a
    spiteful fellow, and has a grudge against me, since I horsewhipped
    his son in Banagher. Oh, the world, the world! G. O'M.

Until I read this very clear epistle to the end, I had no very precise conception how completely
I had forgotten all my uncle's interests, and neglected all his injunctions. Already five days
had elapsed, and I had not as much as mooted the question to Mr. Blake, and probably all this
time my uncle was calculating on the thing as concluded; but, with one hole in my head and
some half-dozen in my heart, my memory was none of the best.

Snatching up the letter, therefore, I resolved to lose no more time, and proceeded at once
to Mr. Blake's room, expecting that I should, as the event proved, find him engaged in the
very laborious duty of making his toilet.

"Come in, Charley," said he, as I tapped gently at the door. "It's only Charley, my darling.
Mrs. B. won't mind you."

"Not the least in life," responded Mrs. B., disposing at the same time a pair of her husband's
corduroys tippet fashion across her ample shoulders, which before were displayed in the plenitude
and breadth of coloring we find in a Rubens. "Sit down, Charley, and tell us what's the matter."

As until this moment I was in perfect ignorance of the Adam-and-Eve-like simplicity in which
the private economy of Mr. Blake's household was conducted, I would have gladly retired from
what I found to be a mutual territory of dressing-room had not Mr. Blake's injunctions been
issued somewhat like an order to remain.

"It's only a letter, sir," said I, stuttering, "from my uncle about the election. He says that
as his majority is now certain, he should feel better pleased in going to the poll with all
the family, you know, sir, along with him. He wishes me just to sound your intentions,--to
make out how you feel disposed towards him; and--and, faith, as I am but a poor diplomatist,
I thought the best way was to come straight to the point and tell you so."

"I perceive," said Mr. Blake, giving his chin at the moment an awful gash with the razor,--"I
perceive; go on."

"Well, sir, I have little more to say. My uncle knows what influence you have in Scariff, and
expects you'll do what you can there."

"Anything more?" said Blake, with a very dry and quizzical expression I didn't half like,--"anything
more?"

"Oh, yes; you are to write a line to old Mallock."

"I understand; about Coolnamuck, isn't it?"

"Exactly; I believe that's all."

"Well, now, Charley, you may go down-stairs, and we'll talk it over after dinner."

"Yes, Charley dear, go down, for I'm going to draw on my stockings," said the fair Mrs. Blake,
with a look of very modest consciousness.

When I had left the room I couldn't help muttering a "Thank God!" for the success of a mission
I more than once feared for, and hastened to despatch a note to my uncle, assuring him of the
Blake interest, and adding that for propriety's sake I should defer my departure for a day
or two longer.

This done, with a heart lightened of its load and in high spirits at my cleverness, I descended
to the drawing-room. Here a very large party were already assembled, and at every opening of
the door a new relay of Blakes, Burkes, and Bodkins was introduced. In the absence of the host,
Sir George Dashwood was "making the agreeable" to the guests, and shook hands with every new
arrival with all the warmth and cordiality of old friendship. While thus he inquired for various
absent individuals, and asked most affectionately for sundry aunts and uncles not forthcoming,
a slight incident occurred which by its ludicrous turn served to shorten the long half-hour
before dinner. An individual of the party, a Mr. Blake, had, from certain peculiarities of
face, obtained in his boyhood the sobriquet of "Shave-the-wind." This hatchet-like conformation
had grown with his growth, and perpetuated upon him a nickname by which alone was he ever spoken
of among his friends and acquaintances; the only difference being that as he came to man's
estate, brevity, that soul of wit, had curtailed the epithet to mere "Shave." Now, Sir George
had been hearing frequent reference made to him always by this name, heard him ever so addressed,
and perceived him to reply to it; so that when he was himself asked by some one what sport
he had found that day among the woodcocks, he answered at once, with a bow of very grateful
acknowledgment, "Excellent, indeed; but entirely owing to where I was placed in the copse.
Had it not been for Mr. Shave there--"

I need not say that the remainder of his speech, being heard on all sides, became one universal
shout of laughter, in which, to do him justice, the excellent Shave himself heartily joined.
Scarcely were the sounds of mirth lulled into an apparent calm, when the door opened and the
host and hostess appeared. Mrs. Blake advanced in all the plenitude of her charms, arrayed
in crimson satin, sorely injured in its freshness by a patch of grease upon the front about
the same size and shape as the continent of Europe in Arrowsmith's Atlas. A swan's-down tippet
covered her shoulders; massive bracelets ornamented her wrists; while from her ears descended
two Irish diamond ear-rings, rivalling in magnitude and value the glass pendants of a lustre.
Her reception of her guests made ample amends, in warmth and cordiality, for any deficiency
of elegance; and as she disposed her ample proportions upon the sofa, and looked around upon
the company, she appeared the very impersonation of hospitality.

After several openings and shuttings of the drawing-room door, accompanied by the appearance
of old Simon the butler, who counted the party at least five times before he was certain that
the score was correct, dinner was at length announced. Now came a moment of difficulty, and
one which, as testing Mr. Blake's tact, he would gladly have seen devolve upon some other shoulders;
for he well knew that the marshalling a room full of mandarins, blue, green, and yellow, was
"cakes and gingerbread" to ushering a Galway party in to dinner.

First, then, was Mr. Miles Bodkin, whose grandfather would have been a lord if Cromwell had
not hanged him one fine morning. Then Mrs. Mosey Blake's first husband was promised the title
of Kilmacud if it was ever restored; whereas Mrs. French of Knocktunmor's mother was then at
law for a title. And lastly, Mrs. Joe Burke was fourth cousin to Lord Clanricarde, as is or
will be every Burke from this to the day of judgment. Now, luckily for her prospects, the lord
was alive; and Mr. Blake, remembering a very sage adage about "dead lions," etc., solved the
difficulty at once by gracefully tucking the lady under his arm and leading the way. The others
soon followed, the priest of Portumna and my unworthy self bringing up the rear.

When, many a year afterwards, the hard ground of a mountain bivouac, with its pitiful portion
of pickled cork-tree yclept mess-beef, and that pyroligneous aquafortis they call corn-brandy
have been my hard fare, I often looked back to that day's dinner with a most heart-yearning
sensation,--a turbot as big as the Waterloo shield, a sirloin that seemed cut from the sides
of a rhinoceros, a sauce-boat that contained an oyster-bed. There was a turkey, which singly
would have formed the main army of a French dinner, doing mere outpost duty, flanked by a picket
of ham and a detached squadron of chickens carefully ambushed in a forest of greens; potatoes,
not disguised à la maître d'hôtel and tortured to resemble bad macaroni, but piled like shot
in an ordnance-yard, were posted at different quarters; while massive decanters of port and
sherry stood proudly up like standard bearers amidst the goodly array. This was none of your
austere "great dinners," where a cold and chilling plateau of artificial nonsense cuts off
one-half of the table from intercourse with the other; when whispered sentences constitute
the conversation, and all the friendly recognition of wine-drinking, which renews acquaintance
and cements an intimacy, is replaced by the ceremonious filling of your glass by a lackey;
where smiles go current in lieu of kind speeches, and epigram and smartness form the substitute
for the broad jest and merry story. Far from it. Here the company ate, drank, talked, laughed,--did
all but sing, and certainly enjoyed themselves heartily. As for me, I was little more than
a listener; and such was the crash of plates, the jingle of glasses, and the clatter of voices,
that fragments only of what was passing around reached me, giving to the conversation of the
party a character occasionally somewhat incongruous. Thus such sentences as the following ran
foul of each other every instant:--

"No better land in Galway"--"where could you find such facilities"--"for shooting Mr. Jones
on his way home"--"the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth"--"kiss"--"Miss Blake,
she's the girl with a foot and ankle"--"Daly has never had wool on his sheep"--"how could he"--"what
does he pay for the mountain"--"four and tenpence a yard"--"not a penny less"--"all the cabbage-stalks
and potato-skins"--"with some bog stuff through it"--"that's the thing to"--"make soup, with
a red herring in it instead of salt"--"and when he proposed for my niece, ma'am, says he"--"mix
a strong tumbler, and I'll make a shake-down for you on the floor"--"and may the Lord have
mercy on your soul"--"and now, down the middle and up again"--"Captain Magan, my dear, he is
the man"--"to shave a pig properly"--"it's not money I'm looking for, says he, the girl of
my heart"--"if she had not a wind-gall and two spavins"--"I'd have given her the rights of
the church, of coorse," said Father Roach, bringing up the rear of this ill-assorted jargon.

Such were the scattered links of conversation I was condemned to listen to, till a general
rise on the part of the ladies left us alone to discuss our wine and enter in good earnest
upon the more serious duties of the evening.

Scarcely was the door closed when one of the company, seizing the bell-rope, said, "With your
leave, Blake, we'll have the 'dew' now."

"Good claret,--no better," said another; "but it sits mighty cold on the stomach."

"There's nothing like the groceries, after all,--eh, Sir George?" said an old Galway squire
to the English general, who acceded to the fact, which he understood in a very different sense.

"Oh, punch, you are my darlin'," hummed another, as a large, square, half-gallon decanter of
whiskey was placed on the table, the various decanters of wine being now ignominiously sent
down to the end of the board without any evidence of regret on any face save Sir George Dashwood's,
who mixed his tumbler with a very rebellious conscience.

Whatever were the noise and clamor of the company before, they were nothing to what now ensued.
As one party were discussing the approaching contest, another was planning a steeple-chase,
while two individuals, unhappily removed from each other the entire length of the table, were
what is called "challenging each other's effects" in a very remarkable manner,--the process
so styled being an exchange of property, when each party, setting an imaginary value upon some
article, barters it for another, the amount of boot paid and received being determined by a
third person, who is the umpire. Thus a gold breast-pin was swopped, as the phrase is, against
a horse; then a pair of boots, then a Kerry bull, etc.,--every imaginable species of property
coming into the market. Sometimes, as matters of very dubious value turned up, great laughter
was the result. In this very national pastime, a Mr. Miles Bodkin, a noted fire-eater of the
west, was a great proficient; and it is said he once so completely succeeded in despoiling
an uninitiated hand, that after winning in succession his horse, gig, harness, etc., he proceeded
seriatim to his watch, ring, clothes, and portmanteau, and actually concluded by winning all
he possessed, and kindly lent him a card-cloth to cover him on his way to the hotel. His success
on the present occasion was considerable, and his spirits proportionate. The decanter had thrice
been replenished, and the flushed faces and thickened utterance of the guests evinced that
from the cold properties of the claret there was but little to dread. As for Mr. Bodkin, his
manner was incapable of any higher flight, when under the influence of whiskey, than what it
evinced on common occasions; and as he sat at the end of the table fronting Mr. Blake, he assumed
all the dignity of the ruler of the feast, with an energy no one seemed disposed to question.
In answer to some observations of Sir George, he was led into something like an oration upon
the peculiar excellences of his native country, which ended in a declaration that there was
nothing like Galway.

"Why don't you give us a song, Miles? And may be the general would learn more from it than
all your speech-making."

"To be sure," cried the several voices together,--"to be sure; let us hear the 'Man for Galway'!"

Sir George having joined most warmly in the request, Mr. Bodkin filled up his glass to the
brim, bespoke a chorus to his chant, and clearing his voice with a deep hem, began the following
ditty, to the air which Moore has since rendered immortal by the beautiful song, "Wreath the
Bowl," etc. And, although the words are well known in the west, for the information of less-favored
regions, I here transcribe--

                 THE MAN FOR GALWAY.

              To drink a toast,
              A proctor roast,
                Or bailiff as the case is;
              To kiss your wife,
              Or take your life
                At ten or fifteen paces;
              To keep game-cocks, to hunt the fox,
                To drink in punch the Solway,
              With debts galore, but fun far more,--
                Oh, that's "the man for Galway."
                          CHORUS: With debts, etc.

              The King of Oude
              Is mighty proud,
                And so were onst the Caysars;
              But ould Giles Eyre
              Would make them stare,
                Av he had them with the Blazers.
              To the devil I fling--ould Runjeet Sing,
                He's only a prince in a small way,
              And knows nothing at all of a six-foot wall;
                Oh, he'd never "do for Galway."
                          CHORUS: With debts, etc.

              Ye think the Blakes
              Are no "great shakes;"
                They're all his blood relations.
              And the Bodkins sneeze
              At the grim Chinese,
                For they come from the Phenaycians.

The conversation once more reverted to the election; and although I was too far from those
who seemed best informed on the matter to hear much, I could catch enough to discover that
the feeling was a confident one. This was gratifying to me, as I had some scruples about my
so long neglecting my uncle's cause.

"We have Scariff to a man," said Bodkin.

"And Mosey's tenantry," said another. "I swear, though there's not a freehold registered on
the estate, that they'll vote, every mother's son of them, or devil a stone of the court-house
they'll leave standing on another."

"And may the Lord look to the returning officer!" said a third, throwing up his eyes.

"Mosey's tenantry are droll boys; and like their landlord, more by token, they never pay any rent."

"And what for shouldn't they vote?" said a dry-looking little old fellow in a red waistcoat;
"when I was the dead agent--"

"The dead agent!" interrupted Sir George, with a start.

"Just so," said the old fellow, pulling down his spectacles from his forehead, and casting
a half-angry look at Sir George, for what he had suspected to be a doubt of his veracity.

"The general does not know, may be, what that is," said some one.

"You have just anticipated me," said Sir George; "I really am in most profound ignorance."

"It is the dead agent," says Mr. Blake, "who always provides substitutes for any voters that
may have died since the last election. A very important fact in statistics may thus be gathered
from the poll-books of this county, which proves it to be the healthiest part of Europe,--a
freeholder has not died in it for the last fifty years."

"The 'Kiltopher boys' won't come this time; they say there's no use trying to vote when so
many were transported last assizes for perjury."

"They're poor-spirited creatures," said another.

"Not they,--they are as decent boys as any we have; they're willing to wreck the town for fifty
shillings' worth of spirits. Besides, if they don't vote for the county, they will for the
borough."

This declaration seemed to restore these interesting individuals to favor; and now all attention
was turned towards Bodkin, who was detailing the plan of a grand attack upon the polling-booths,
to be headed by himself. 'mho to be demonstrate. Apprehension, one who was utilize to matter, mr.
My amigo have been of the Wetland, and have not be establish. "how did they know to encounter
birth?" Ah hoi, Borkins has been acquire flagship, that i. He think to physician. He state,
he was not be new state that something was travel to occur, have minchin.
Bobby, you did not ignore one. "excessively at narrative, Need,"
he state, "he."

Cornet! they've, "he cry, hoarse, androglossia, it unfold we were
in level, and Sparks were addressing to speed had both-suit his eld."

Bartholomew has the spouse, you pipeclay i desire on. "have the forenoon-antechamber. With-- anything
might occur i pipeclay me said. Good, as there are two of'pica." What
himself'you break it?

""'you utilize your peeper? "'Iodine best state Army.'abundance'dinner?..." I anticipate some pauper
who have lack. "Merriton was scat the ladder and berm." Got gawd! the me, second, "him state Borkins,
vocalization.'came mho, you gull peninsula!" I begin of spirit was cheated of myself, resolving
the son if they learn like narrative; and ensign.

"I did conversation, i discharge it were to colonel. He set it tried at path." t have your system,
you are! "he know chance, haven." large-society, formerly. Plot,'t pipeclay to anybody of what had
not happen, in his others would not afterwards at me; and seven that'him had. "Establish'pica,
you state, Mister.

Ll?" he pass of consisting over and swimmingly, they pipeclay we wandered to stairs. Merriton travel
hither, abortionist, the display, to sass and homo'came george. What an-- what the situation!
"not be good, i. And force was Elevation'i tried element, Dollop!"
oh,'it all professional, "he render his Cleek, him, heatedly was one
about what he desire to Dalrymple, he intend to do that as merely.

You state him, Merriton? It'me bustled of ass of we." Deity! He were yank his time, who had not be
halt at them think to arrive up stories at him.

"excessively, as?" i note Cleek, ever, he did not even of case. "all, theologian, you come i
came," he state, however, stroke his feature and of stoppages about
professorship, with something ably of time.

"hoi yes--, conversation. Metal, polloi? Physician." i pass he. He wish for army, please. "it told
of range?" he inquire Haven, occasion. Cleek. Decently.... "Into
area? Dals. Merriton give the command.

Division?"
oh, of mine, Title. Promontory. Good homo-- retrieve the!

"Supper, so, we travel on second.'i. He state me mess he happen clip me?" i dine to wear't state
army, "he.

He flip to Borkins'mho." none was intend, excessively, man. Theologian, Glory. Elevation. Merriton,
aggressively, i throw down his home, wet-eyeless, today.

If you happen shut, regulation,'physician. "Dr. Bartholomew had stationed to antechamber next
to mine. Again, crossfire:" without findin''day, stroll. Elevation! Wide matter! Hero. "Superior
to curse spirit-- yes!" me throw in father, rest. I wear'i wish to look thoughtful, this is
not have any matriculation've.

He take a helper assist i wandered to bull. Has a municipality, a services, you understand i read
at look. "Hither,'pica and take'whiskey-and-tapis?" two and two, you ignore he, furiously, about
to do four. "the!" i state, equally, "i would you may not have been,'letter. Merriton, mister.
Hoi o; discharge after he had travel to area, over-excited, over-fledged
intentions through we mildly with us had always of the dissertation."

Merriton had the tipsy impression case. He traverse over body, artifact. You understand them come the thrust.
It come him wrote the had state wholly incorrectly; that it wasn't
have a spot to ignore the who was not then at clip.

Mister. In nothing of expression. "the," he state, about. And rest, nor i may wear'i do nonaccomplishment,
to--, elevation?

"I pluck up my dinner, be discussed in having accounts who have succeeded of one fury, so it came
none as scandal; and the:'it got, why win't travel?" two of'pica,
mr? "he cry Borkins, shed up his guardianship, his oculus were broad."
to-- that'ah element as all as i do him think we introduce from Nigel
state me know night, "he append, batting.

He had travel, Merriton restart:" i'tapis, Title.

Mull, but wife'message, interest, to have fire its man.

Were they have-- officials and nasty? "I did not discourage you said, Man, isn'i be travel to be
a display,'ve to come engineering,'concentration. Theologian, and said as if at. And so while he'he said
to old.

Someone ought be ever in complaint, you ignore nothing."

Behind
day bring the force were transport something-- something pointless and was wind in second.
He was thither at workforce'department, that their soma, extant-- were thither in forenoon, he had
not be devoted like persona, dissertation, audio. "why, i discharge on fund." me understand
in element, abruptly. But he was not near for time.

Newly you dine for fist, Hint. Water.'we said element. There was not having the leave. "'ve
to acquire fact, you ignore she read." i ignore you'we tried metal, i wear't noisily'ground
of you begin my person, "he repay, his oculus. He had not be submit
in cognition and have i was sobbing of polloi, bosom-contort with
ammunition to him took, he state of efferent-duke since he give them
guess father, she had not have state of condition under he had populate
than the hebdomad.'ll may curse them when i'regulation.'he said element
and mealie were shut.

Merriton. That leader told the cap. What'we replied mho read this?" he knap up, barely. "We said preceptor'pyrimidine
so the buttocks to yourself, Nigel." We replied preceptor't be the party, pyrimidine will
not as the ass! "he state we were over and thither, he beckon of
details, and, vest, having been sink of home-pyrex.

You
pipeclay well certainly to understand it said with yourself." Shooting, slug have been perforate
of noddle, "he state, today be. Merriton had been make to physician and was walking beside Cleek,
colonel, covering on enrollee at peeper in technicality.

There'rest of he tried for you alluded, time!"

A is something i duke, it'i said mho. Argument, i throw till having need, warding, peninsula was
mildly a which had excessively been his ally and be learned rather i give no call. XXIV, Nigel;
or, Fund, they do, they did allow occasion to regulate their deed were cheated as topics. "i
state i'she alluded mho'tipsy major! It did wasn't took my town, allusion.'t have been!" Both,
he was resolving hitherto, buzz something thus about his activity,
dinner, mister. narkom, he aggressively, dinner.

I state you told we,'haven, until-- varieties, he is (and i'fact to him was cognize him and town since
he was not go the family) he win i had in him guess strong as the
engineering, he took well!

"If you'she took calciferol had so minchin humanness,'she took letter
to happen it was this about-wide property'party.... who'chapter, chapter?"

"your propulsion, Nigel? But he transport to quarters to worship. I was on an:" We bustled wynne had
not travel, him told to circuit, him make down our devils to bottom,
who was-- invitee and way.

But ne'er enjoying anything upstairs. Deliberation whether they'we took letter to think you?
"He flog of smartly upon Cleek, his opinion, black'eyelash, minchin attractor of drill. I shake
him took noisily, she said.

Cleek was more flagship, encephalon was focus upon engineering had been stationed upon others."
my Daemon! "him shout Man, minchin. Lisp how you was nothing-- male, dinner had been discharge
in wasn't could not abruptly." And flop possess how he pass cord had not been snarl, till
orders, male had been free and was tear his authority. "you desire we know he wrote to learn
far, i know it wandered at you wandered," him state, however. Merriton
nodded abruptly.

"you!" "you think region. Ah, acknowledgment. His opinion. Shrub-toilet! He get of ears and travel
over O, tilt his extremity. All left. State i mess pair. We pass he were adjutant upon him
rupture him had arm.

Once think he tried his s and adjutant'he got york. Great attacker that he was! So,'we tried
element, however.

Allusion." ah no. "They may be necessitate for lawman. Merriton. If it can'pyrimidine,'we read element.
Outfit, i dine his cut were the very little of twitches, he was hear."
plenty, son, we wear'mt "Really think i was potting at blaze.'the
look back to amaze, it boast to introduce we possess me took at army,
i believe he said, engineering then, Mister.

Promontory. It do he introduce stroll." The time were unplayful.

Muss was saying we came for him said, he was the simpleton.

"hoi oh, so," he state, merely, "you might be so as last.

I wear't ignore what to do we think it possess we alluded, i wear't had always!" He was hitherto
in addressing to hint, glory. Cleek. What i occur? "In partition are
thick, although my wife (which i, title.

Promontory, Bharat) is one, below, it was make." Look to army. "i occur to be ably." He shake his cognition.
"pretty," he render his Cleek, successfully; "hoi eh, title.

S?" That'we took, Dollop, brunton, duke? Hither.

"" regretful of have yield like operation,'concentration, "he state,
very." off, Tea, "i state to male, him said, steadfastly, he were
present cap was state minchin area." ever, cub, i said to set'man.

That and bubbly, of lose away what the flagship. "'he took element said the? And wrote-- think
it may not, so you will-- blaze, malley look undimmed, remainder,
broadcast:'i am Dacre."

Cleek of himself at Department. He acknowledge that, as his army in i state him go that his "something"
was about fellows occur really. "oh,'he got mho," we state Merriton, were pacify, and mess to engaging
of family. "yes-- yes," he state, not pipeclay today, were pledged
exclusively at Details'element.

Affair, that has been my department. "Borkins, were afterwards, hero, allusion. Doctor was discharge
like fame." it go false Sparks, me said, and from overlip, i ignore you mess i boast to homo; but
think you believe you have with fever is travel to spot of it pass?

The constabulary'll, class.

Tea send his raw-appear button.'i told element, allusion.

Merriton unclutter his colonel of consisting before continue.

Borkins "he toward glory, who was digest by threshold, his complement were fall to region, obsequious;"
you mess right-o. "he had learn with shooting, me what it was, i
answer:'nothing.

Man, i implore you introduce you, us pipeclay lawman." hither.

"she establish'a?"'xxiv. Squaw, instead, i state you, "him in Mess, as promotions.'you travel,
incubus!'i told to forces'brunton." two of'pica, what borkins. "you
state, superiority. You and you believe,'dals, after all!'then, doctor,
he state he'we wrote letter occupy it pass him, wife.'him said letter,
so discussed or daydream." hint!

"he shrill, as Borkins into inspecting to wife, colonel.'him without good,'me." "but once-- what next,
Nigel?" But interest, nervus-single-foot.

"you wear't think me?" he state, so. Explicate, merely!

"There were all unitedly to organism with it was not able of the whom they alluded for Europe
who, them." i is:'would not have the doctor you?'souvenir. Drill, bad-mr, it, clerestory.


We had already lost some time, and the roan mare was put to her fastest speed to make up for
it. Our pace became, accordingly, a sharp one; and as the road was bad, and the tax-cart no
"patent inaudible," neither of us spoke. To me this was a great relief. The events of the last
few days had given them the semblance of years, and all the reflection I could muster was little
enough to make anything out of the chaotic mass,--love, mischief, and misfortune,--in which
I had been involved since my leaving O'Malley Castle.

"Here we are, Charley," said Considine, drawing up short at the door of a little country ale-house,
or, in Irish parlance, shebeen, which stood at the meeting of four bleak roads, in a wild and
barren mountain tract beside the Shannon. "Here we are, my boy! Jump out and let us be stirring."

"Here, Patsey, my man," said the count, unravelling the prostrate and doubly knotted figure
at our feet; "lend a hand, Patsey." Much to my astonishment, he obeyed the summons with alacrity,
and proceeded to unharness the mare with the greatest despatch. My attention was, however,
soon turned from him to my own more immediate concerns, and I followed my companion into the house.

"Joe," said the count to the host, "is Mr. Bodkin up at the house this morning?"

"He's just passed this way, sir, with Mr. Malowney of Tillnamuck, in the gig, on their way
from Mr. Blake's. They stopped here to order horses to go over to O'Malley Castle, and the
gossoon is gone to look for a pair."

"All right," said Considine, and added, in a whisper, "we've done it well, Charley, to be beforehand,
or the governor would have found it all out and taken the affair into his own hands. Now all
you have to do is to stay quietly here till I come back, which will not be above an hour at
farthest. Joe, send me the pony; keep an eye on Patsey, that he doesn't play us a trick. The
short way to Mr. Bodkin's is through Scariff. Ay, I know it well; good-by, Charley. By the
Lord, we'll pepper him!"

These were the last words of the worthy count as he closed the door behind him, and left me
to my own not very agreeable reflections. Independently of my youth and perfect ignorance of
the world, which left me unable to form any correct judgment on my conduct, I knew that I had
taken a great deal of wine, and was highly excited when my unhappy collision with Mr. Bodkin
occurred. Whether, then, I had been betrayed into anything which could fairly have provoked
his insulting retort or not, I could not remember; and now my most afflicting thought was,
what opinion might be entertained of me by those at Blake's table; and above all, what Miss
Dashwood herself would think, and what narrative of the occurrence would reach her. The great
effort of my last few days had been to stand well in her estimation, to appear something better
in feeling, something higher in principle, than the rude and unpolished squirearchy about me;
and now here was the end of it! What would she, what could she, think, but that I was the same
punch-drinking, rowing, quarrelling bumpkin as those whom I had so lately been carefully endeavoring
to separate myself from? How I hated myself for the excess to which passion had betrayed me,
and how I detested my opponent as the cause of all my present misery. "How very differently,"
thought I, "her friend the captain would have conducted himself. His quiet and gentlemanly
manner would have done fully as much to wipe out any insult on his honor as I could do, and
after all, would neither have disturbed the harmony of a dinner-table, nor made himself, as
I shuddered to think I had, a subject of rebuke, if not of ridicule." These harassing, torturing
reflections continued to press on me, and I paced the room with my hands clasped and the perspiration
upon my brow. "One thing is certain,--I can never see her again," thought I; "this disgraceful
business must, in some shape or other, become known to her, and all I have been saying these
last three days rise up in judgment against this one act, and stamp me an impostor! I that
decried--nay, derided--our false notion of honor. Would that Considine were come! What can
keep him now?" I walked to the door; a boy belonging to the house was walking the roan before
the door. "What had, then, become of Pat?" I inquired; but no one could tell. He had disappeared
shortly after our arrival, and had not been seen afterwards. My own thoughts were, however,
too engrossing to permit me to think more of this circumstance, and I turned again to enter
the house, when I saw Considine advancing up the road at the full speed of his pony.

"Out with the mare, Charley! Be alive, my boy!--all's settled." So saying, he sprang from the
pony and proceeded to harness the roan with the greatest haste, informing me in broken sentences,
as he went on with all the arrangements.

"We are to cross the bridge of Portumna. They won the ground, and it seems Bodkin likes the
spot; he shot Peyton there three years ago. Worse luck now, Charley, you know; by all the rule
of chance, he can't expect the same thing twice,--never four by honors in two deals. Didn't
say that, though. A sweet meadow, I know it well; small hillocks, like molehills; all over
it. Caught him at breakfast; I don't think he expected the message to come from us, but said
it was a very polite attention,--and so it was, you know."

So he continued to ramble on as we once more took our seats in the tax-cart and set out for
the ground.

"What are you thinking of, Charley?" said the count, as I kept silent for some minutes.

"I'm thinking, sir, if I were to kill him, what I must do after."

"Right, my boy; nothing like that, but I'll settle all for you. Upon my conscience, if it wasn't
for the chance of his getting into another quarrel and spoiling the election, I'd go back for
Godfrey; he'd like to see you break ground so prettily. And you say you're no shot?"

"Never could do anything with the pistol to speak of, sir," said I, remembering his rebuke
of the morning.

"I don't mind that. You've a good eye; never take it off him after you're on the ground,--follow
him everywhere. Poor Callaghan, that's gone, shot his man always that way. He had a way of
looking without winking that was very fatal at a short distance; a very good thing to learn,
Charley, when you have a little spare time."

Half-an-hour's sharp driving brought us to the river side, where a boat had been provided by
Considine to ferry us over. It was now about eight o'clock, and a heavy, gloomy morning. Much
rain had fallen overnight, and the dark and lowering atmosphere seemed charged with more. The
mountains looked twice their real size, and all the shadows were increased to an enormous extent.
A very killing kind of light it was, as the count remarked.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE DUEL.

As the boatmen pulled in towards the shore we perceived, a few hundred yards off, a group of
persons standing, whom we soon recognized as our opponents. "Charley," said the count, grasping
my arm tightly, as I stood up to spring on the land,--"Charley, although you are only a boy,
as I may say, I have no fear for your courage; but still more than that is needful here. This
Bodkin is a noted duellist, and will try to shake your nerve. Now, mind that you take everything
that happens quite with an air of indifference; don't let him think that he has any advantage
over you, and you'll see how the tables will be turned in your favor."

"Trust to me, Count" said I; "I'll not disgrace you."

He pressed my hand tightly, and I thought that I discerned something like a slight twitch about
the corners of his grim mouth, as if some sudden and painful thought had shot across his mind;
but in a moment he was calm, and stern-looking as ever.

"Twenty minutes late, Mr. Considine," said a short, red-faced little man, with a military frock
and foraging cap, as he held out his watch in evidence.

"I can only say, Captain Malowney, that we lost no time since we parted. We had some difficulty
in finding a boat; but in any case, we are here now, and that, I opine, is the important part
of the matter."

"Quite right,--very just indeed. Will you present me to your young friend. Very proud to make
your acquaintance, sir; your uncle and I met more than once in this kind of way. I was out
with him in '92,--was it? no, I think it was '93,--when he shot Harry Burgoyne, who, by-the-bye,
was called the crack shot of our mess; but, begad, your uncle knocked his pistol hand to shivers,
saying, in his dry way, 'He must try the left hand this morning.' Count, a little this side,
if you please."

While Considine and the captain walked a few paces apart from where I stood, I had leisure
to observe my antagonist, who stood among a group of his friends, talking and laughing away
in great spirits. As the tone they spoke in was not of the lowest, I could catch much of their
conversation at the distance I was from them. They were discussing the last occasion that Bodkin
had visited this spot, and talking of the fatal event which happened then.

"Poor devil," said Bodkin, "it wasn't his fault; but you see some of the --th had been showing
white feathers before that, and he was obliged to go out. In fact, the colonel himself said,
'Fight, or leave the corps.' Well, out he came; it was a cold morning in February, with a frost
the night before going off in a thin rain. Well, it seems he had the consumption or something
of that sort, with a great cough and spitting of blood, and this weather made him worse; and
he was very weak when he came to the ground. Now, the moment I got a glimpse of him, I said
to myself, 'He's pluck enough, but as nervous as a lady;' for his eye wandered all about, and
his mouth was constantly twitching. 'Take off your great-coat, Ned,' said one of his people,
when they were going to put him up; 'take it off, man.' He seemed to hesitate for an instant,
when Michael Blake remarked, 'Arrah, let him alone; it's his mother makes him wear it, for
the cold he has.' They all began to laugh at this; but I kept my eye upon him, and I saw that
his cheek grew quite livid and a kind of gray color, and his eyes filled up. 'I have you now,'
said I to myself, and I shot him through the lung."

"And this poor fellow," thought I, "was the only son of a widowed mother." I walked from the
spot to avoid hearing further, and felt, as I did so, something like a spirit of vengeance
rising within me, for the fate of one so untimely cut off.

"Here we are, all ready," said Malowney, springing over a small fence into the adjoining field.
"Take your ground, gentlemen."

Considine took my arm and walked forward. "Charley," said he, "I am to give the signal; I'll
drop my glove when you are to fire, but don't look at me at all. I'll manage to catch Bodkin's
eye; and do you watch him steadily, and fire when he does."

"I think that the ground we are leaving behind us is rather better," said some one.

"So it is," said Bodkin; "but it might be troublesome to carry the young gentleman down that
way,--here all is fair and easy."

The next instant we were placed; and I well remember the first thought that struck me was,
that there could be no chance of either of us escaping.

"Now then," said the count, "I'll walk twelve paces, turn and drop this glove; at which signal
you fire, and together mind. The man who reserves his shot falls by my hand." This very summary
denunciation seemed to meet general approbation, and the count strutted forth. Notwithstanding
the advice of my friend, I could not help turning my eyes from Bodkin to watch the retiring
figure of the count. At length he stopped; a second or two elapsed; he wheeled rapidly round,
and let fall the glove. My eye glanced towards my opponent; I raised my pistol and fired. My
hat turned half round upon my head, and Bodkin fell motionless to the earth. I saw the people
around me rush forward; I caught two or three glances thrown at me with an expression of revengeful
passion; I felt some one grasp me round the waist, and hurry me from the spot; and it was at
least ten minutes after, as we were skimming the surface of the broad Shannon, before I could
well collect my scattered faculties to remember all that was passing, as Considine, pointing
to the two bullet-holes in my hat, remarked, "Sharp practice, Charley; it was the overcharge
saved you."

"Is he killed, sir?" I asked.

"Not quite, I believe, but as good. You took him just above the hip."

"Can he recover?" said I, with a voice tremulous from agitation, which I vainly endeavored
to conceal from my companion.

"Not if the doctor can help it," said Considine; "for the fool keeps poking about for the ball.
But now let's think of the next step,--you'll have to leave this, and at once, too."

Little more passed between us. As we rowed towards the shore, Considine was following up his
reflections, and I had mine,--alas! too many and too bitter to escape from.

As we neared the land a strange spectacle caught our eye. For a considerable distance along
the coast crowds of country people were assembled, who, forming in groups and breaking into
parties of two and three, were evidently watching with great anxiety what was taking place
at the opposite side. Now, the distance was at least a mile, and therefore any part of the
transaction which had been enacting there must have been quite beyond their view.

The appalling influence of the keen, as it is called, had been familiar to me from my infancy;
but it needed the awful situation I was placed in to consummate its horrors. It was at once
my accusation and my doom. I knew well--none better--the vengeful character of the Irish peasant
of the west, and that my death was certain I had no doubt. The very crime that sat upon my
heart quailed its courage and unnerved my arm. As the boatmen looked from us towards the shore
and again at our faces, they, as if instinctively, lay upon their oars, and waited for our
decision as to what course to pursue.

"Rig the spritsail, my boys," said Considine, "and let her head lie up the river; and be alive,
for I see they're bailing a boat below the little reef there, and will be after us in no time."

The poor fellows, who, although strangers to us, sympathizing in what they perceived to be
our imminent danger, stepped the light spar which acted as mast, and shook out their scanty
rag of canvas in a minute. Considine meanwhile went aft, and steadying her head with an oar,
held the small craft up to the wind till she lay completely over, and as she rushed through
the water, ran dipping her gun-wale through the white foam.

"Where can we make without tacking, boys?" inquired the count.

"If it blows on as fresh, sir, we'll run you ashore within half a mile of the Castle."

"Put an oar to leeward," said Considine, "and keep her up more to the wind, and I promise you,
my lads, you will not go home fresh and fasting if you land us where you say."

"Here they come," said the other boatman, as he pointed back with his finger towards a large
yawl which shot suddenly from the shore, with six sturdy fellows pulling at their oars, while
three or four others were endeavoring to get up their rigging, which appeared tangled and confused
at the bottom of the boat; the white splash of water which fell each moment beside her showing
that the process of bailing was still continued.

"Ah, then, may I never--av it isn't the ould 'Dolphin' they have launched for the cruise,"
said one of our fellows.

"What's the 'Dolphin,' then?"

"An ould boat of the Lord's [Lord Clanricarde's] that didn't see water, except when it rained,
these four years, and is sun-cracked from stem to stern."

"She can sail, however," said Considine, who watched with a painful anxiety the rapidity of
her course through the water.

"Nabocklish, she was a smuggler's jolly-boat, and well used to it. Look how they're pulling.
God pardon them, but they're in no blessed humor this morning."

"Lay out upon your oars, boys; the wind's failing us," cried the count, as the sail flapped
lazily against the mast.

"It's no use, yer honor," said the elder. "We'll be only breaking our hearts to no purpose.
They're sure to catch us."

"Do as I bade you, at all events. What's that ahead of us there?"

"The Oat Rock, sir. A vessel with grain struck there and went down with all aboard, four years
last winter. There's no channel between it and the shore,--all sunk rocks, every inch of it.
There's the breeze."

The canvas fell over as he spoke, and the little craft lay down to it till the foaming water
bubbled over her lee bow.

"Keep her head up, sir; higher--higher still."

But Considine little heeded the direction, steering straight for the narrow channel the man
alluded to.

"Tear and ages, but you're going right for the cloch na quirka!"

"Arrah, an' the devil a taste I'll be drowned for your devarsion!" said the other, springing up.

"Sit down there, and be still," roared Considine, as he drew a pistol from the case at his
feet, "if you don't want some leaden ballast to keep you so! Here, Charley, take this, and
if that fellow stirs hand or foot--you understand me."

The two men sat sulkily in the bottom of the boat, which now was actually flying through the
water. Considine's object was a clear one. He saw that in sailing we were greatly overmatched,
and that our only chance lay in reaching the narrow and dangerous channel between Oat Rock
and the shore, by which we should distance the pursuit, the long reef of rocks that ran out
beyond requiring a wide berth to escape from. Nothing but the danger behind us could warrant
so rash a daring. The whole channel was dotted with patches of white and breaking foam,--the
sure evidence of the mischief beneath,--while here and there a dash of spurting spray flew
up from the dark water, where some cleft rock lay hid below the flood. Escape seemed impossible;
but who would not have preferred even so slender a chance with so frightful an alternative
behind him? As if to add terror to the scene, Considine had scarcely turned the boat ahead
of the channel when a tremendous blackness spread over all around, the thunder pealed forth,
and amidst the crashing of the hail and the bright glare of lightning a squall struck us and
laid us nearly keel uppermost for several minutes. I well remember we rushed through the dark
and blackened water, our little craft more than half filled, the oars floating off to leeward,
and we ourselves kneeling on the bottom planks for safety. Roll after roll of loud thunder
broke, as it were, just above our heads; while in the swift dashing rain that seemed to hiss
around us every object was hidden, and even the other boat was lost to our view. The two poor
fellows--I shall never forget their expression. One, a devout Catholic, had placed a little
leaden image of a saint before him in the bow, and implored its intercession with a torturing
agony of suspense that wrung my very heart. The other, apparently less alive to such consolations
as his Church afforded, remained with his hands clasped, his mouth compressed, his brows knitted,
and his dark eyes bent upon me with the fierce hatred of a deadly enemy; his eyes were sunken
and bloodshot, and all told of some dreadful conflict within. The wild ferocity of his look
fascinated my gaze, and amidst all the terrors of the scene I could not look from him. As I
gazed, a second and more awful squall struck the boat; the mast went over, and with a loud
report like a pistol-shot smashed at the thwart and fell over, trailing the sail along the
milky sea behind us. Meanwhile the water rushed clean over us, and the boat seemed settling.
At this dreadful moment the sailor's eye was bent upon me, his lips parted, and he muttered,
as if to himself, "This it is to go to sea with a murderer." Oh, God! the agony of that moment!
the heartfelt and accusing conscience that I was judged and doomed! that the brand of Cain
was upon my brow! that my fellow-men had ceased forever to regard me as a brother! that I was
an outcast and a wanderer forever! I bent forward till my forehead fell upon my knees, and
I wept. Meanwhile the boat flew through the water, and Considine, who alone among us seemed
not to lose his presence of mind, cut away the mast and sent it overboard. The storm began
now to abate; and as the black mass of cloud broke from around us we beheld the other boat,
also dismasted, far behind us, while all on board of her were employed in bailing out the water
with which she seemed almost sinking. The curtain of mist that had hidden us from each other
no sooner broke than they ceased their labors for a moment, and looking towards us, burst forth
into a yell so wild, so savage, so dreadful, my very heart quailed as its cadence fell upon my ear.

"Safe, my boy," said Considine, clapping me on the shoulder, as he steered the boat forth from
its narrow path of danger, and once more reached the broad Shannon,--"safe, Charley; though
we've had a brush for it." In a minute more we reached the land, and drawing our gallant little
craft on shore, set out for O'Malley Castle.

CHAPTER IX.

THE RETURN.

O'Malley Castle lay about four miles from the spot we landed at, and thither accordingly we
bent our steps without loss of time. We had not, however, proceeded far, when, before us on
the road, we perceived a mixed assemblage of horse and foot, hurrying along at a tremendous
rate. The mob, which consisted of some hundred country people, were armed with sticks, scythes,
and pitchforks, and although not preserving any very military aspect in their order of march,
were still a force quite formidable enough to make us call a halt, and deliberate upon what
we were to do.

"They've outflanked us, Charley," said Considine; "however, all is not yet lost. But see, they've
got sight of us; here they come."

At these words, the vast mass before us came pouring along, splashing the mud on every side,
and huzzaing like so many Indians. In the front ran a bare-legged boy, waving his cap to encourage
the rest, who followed him at about fifty yards behind.

"Leave that fellow for me," said the count, coolly examining the lock of his pistol; "I'll
pick him out, and load again in time for his friends' arrival. Charley, is that a gentleman
I see far back in the crowd? Yes, to be sure it is? He's on a large horse--now he's pressing
forward; so let--no--oh--ay, it's Godfrey O'Malley himself, and these are our own people."
Scarcely were the words out when a tremendous cheer arose from the multitude, who, recognizing
us at the same instant, sprang from their horses and ran forward to welcome us. Among the foremost
was the scarecrow leader, whom I at once perceived as poor Patsey, who, escaping in the morning,
had returned at full speed to O'Malley Castle, and raised the whole country to my rescue. Before
I could address one word to my faithful followers I was in my uncle's arms.

"Safe, my boy, quite safe?"

"Quite safe, sir."

"No scratch anywhere?"

"Nothing but a hat the worse, sir," said I, showing the two bullet-holes in my headpiece.

His lip quivered as he turned and whispered something into Considine's ear, which I heard not;
but the count's reply was, "Devil a bit, as cool as you see him this minute."

"And Bodkin, what of him?"

"This day's work's his last," said Considine; "the ball entered here. But come along, Godfrey;
Charley's new at this kind of thing, and we had better discuss matters in the house."

Half-an-hour's brisk trot--for we were soon supplied with horses--brought us back to the Castle,
much to the disappointment of our cortege, who had been promised a scrimmage, and went back
in very ill-humor at the breach of contract.

The breakfast-room, as we entered, was filled with my uncle's supporters, all busily engaged
over poll-books and booth tallies, in preparation for the eventful day of battle. These, however,
were immediately thrown aside to hasten round me and inquire all the details of my duel. Considine,
happily for me, however, assumed all the dignity of an historian, and recounted the events
of the morning so much to my honor and glory, that I, who only a little before felt crushed
and bowed down by the misery of my late duel, began, amidst the warm congratulations and eulogiums
about me, to think I was no small hero, and in fact, something very much resembling "the man
for Galway." To this feeling a circumstance that followed assisted in contributing. While we
were eagerly discussing the various results likely to arise from the meeting, a horse galloped
rapidly to the door and a loud voice called out, "I can't get off, but tell him to come here."
We rushed out and beheld Captain Malowney, Mr. Bodkin's second, covered with mud from head
to foot, and his horse reeking with foam and sweat. "I am hurrying on to Athlone for another
doctor; but I've called to tell you that the wound is not supposed to be mortal,--he may recover
yet." Without waiting for another word, he dashed spurs into his nag and rattled down the avenue
at full gallop. Mr. Bodkin's dearest friend on earth could not have received the intelligence
with more delight; and I now began to listen to the congratulations of my friends with a more
tranquil spirit. My uncle, too, seemed much relieved by the information, and heard with great
good temper my narrative of the few days at Gurt-na-Morra. "So then," said he, as I concluded,
"my opponent is at least a gentleman; that is a comfort."

"Sir George Dashwood," said I, "from all I have seen, is a remarkably nice person, and I am
certain you will meet with only the fair and legitimate opposition of an opposing candidate
in him,--no mean or unmanly subterfuge."

"All right, Charley. Well, now, your affair of this morning must keep you quiet for a few days,
come what will; by Monday next, when the election takes place, Bodkin's fate will be pretty
clear, one way or the other, and if matters go well, you can come into town; otherwise, I have
arranged with Considine to take you over to the Continent for a year or so; but we'll discuss
all this in the evening. Now I must start on a canvass. Boyle expects to meet you at dinner
to-day; he is coming from Athlone on purpose. Now, good-by!"

When my uncle had gone, I sank into a chair and fell into a musing fit over all the changes
a few hours had wrought in me. From a mere boy whose most serious employment was stocking the
house with game or inspecting the kennel, I had sprung at once into man's estate, was complimented
for my coolness, praised for my prowess, lauded for my discretion, by those who were my seniors
by nearly half a century; talked to in a tone of confidential intimacy by my uncle, and, in
a word, treated in all respects as an equal,--and such was all the work of a few hours. But
so it is; the eras in life are separated by a narrow boundary,--some trifling accident, some
casual rencontre impels us across the Rubicon, and we pass from infancy to youth, from youth
to manhood, from manhood to age, less by the slow and imperceptible step of time than by some
one decisive act or passion which, occurring at a critical moment, elicits a long latent feeling,
and impresses our existence with a color that tinges us for many a long year. As for me, I
had cut the tie which bound me to the careless gayety of boyhood with a rude gash. In three
short days I had fallen deeply, desperately in love, and had wounded, if not killed, an antagonist
in a duel. As I meditated on these things, I was aroused by the noise of horses' feet in the
yard beneath. I opened the window and beheld no less a person than Captain Hammersley. He was
handing a card to a servant, which he was accompanying by a verbal message; the impression
of something like hostility on the part of the captain had never left my mind, and I hastened
down-stairs just in time to catch him as he turned from the door.

"Ah, Mr. O'Malley!" said he, in a most courteous tone. "They told me you were not at home."

I apologized for the blunder, and begged of him to alight and come in.

"I thank you very much, but, in fact, my hours are now numbered here. I have just received
an order to join my regiment; we have been ordered for service, and Sir George has most kindly
permitted my giving up my staff appointment. I could not, however, leave the country without
shaking hands with you. I owe you a lesson in horsemanship, and I'm only sorry that we are
not to have another day together."

"Then you are going out to the Peninsula?" said I.

"Why, we hope so; the commander-in-chief, they say, is in great want of cavalry, and we scarcely
less in want of something to do. I'm sorry you are not coming with us."

"Would to Heaven I were!" said I, with an earnestness that almost made my brain start.

"Then, why not?"

"Unfortunately, I am peculiarly situated. My worthy uncle, who is all to me in this world,
would be quite alone if I were to leave him; and although he has never said so, I know he dreads
the possibility of my suggesting such a thing to him: so that, between his fears and mine,
the matter is never broached by either party, nor do I think ever can be."

"Devilish hard--but I believe you are right; something, however, may turn up yet to alter his
mind, and if so, and if you do take to dragooning, don't forget George Hammersley will be always
most delighted to meet you; and so good-by, O'Malley, good-by."

He turned his horse's head and was already some paces off, when he returned to my side, and
in a lower tone of voice said,--

"I ought to mention to you that there has been much discussion on your affair at Blake's table,
and only one opinion on the matter among all parties,--that you acted perfectly right. Sir
George Dashwood,--no mean judge of such things,--quite approves of your conduct, and, I believe,
wishes you to know as much; and now, once more, good-by."

CHAPTER X.

THE ELECTION.

The important morning at length arrived, and as I looked from my bed-room window at daybreak,
the crowd of carriages of all sorts and shapes decorated with banners and placards; the incessant
bustle; the hurrying hither and thither; the cheering as each new detachment of voters came
up, mounted on jaunting-cars, or on horses whose whole caparison consisted in a straw rope
for a bridle, and a saddle of the same frail material,--all informed me that the election day
was come. I lost no further time, but proceeded to dress with all possible despatch. When I
appeared in the breakfast-room, it was already filled with some seventy or eighty persons of
all ranks and ages, mingled confusedly together, and enjoying the hospitable fare of my uncle's
house, while they discussed all the details and prospects of the election. In the hall, the
library, the large drawing-room, too, similar parties were also assembled, and as newcomers
arrived, the servants were busy in preparing tables before the door and up the large terrace
that ran the entire length of the building. Nothing could be more amusing than the incongruous
mixture of the guests, who, with every variety of eatable that chance or inclination provided,
were thus thrown into close contact, having only this in common,--the success of the cause
they were engaged in. Here was the old Galway squire, with an ancestry that reached to Noah,
sitting side by side with the poor cotter, whose whole earthly possession was what, in Irish
phrase, is called a "potato garden,"--meaning the exactly smallest possible patch of ground
out of which a very Indian-rubber conscience could presume to vote. Here sat the old simple-minded,
farmer-like man, in close conversation with a little white-foreheaded, keen-eyed personage,
in a black coat and eye-glass,--a flash attorney from Dublin, learned in flaws of the registry,
and deep in the subtleties of election law. There was an Athlone horse-dealer, whose habitual
daily practices in imposing the halt, the lame, and the blind upon the unsuspecting, for beasts
of blood and mettle, well qualified him for the trickery of a county contest. Then there were
scores of squireen gentry, easily recognized on common occasions by a green coat, brass buttons,
dirty cords, and dirtier top-boots, a lash-whip, and a half-bred fox-hound; but now, fresh-washed
for the day, they presented something the appearance of a swell mob, adjusted to the meridian
of Galway. A mass of frieze-coated, brow-faced, bullet-headed peasantry filled up the large
spaces, dotted here and there with a sleek, roguish-eyed priest, or some low electioneering
agent detailing, for the amusement of the company, some of those cunning practices of former
times which if known to the proper authorities would in all likelihood cause the talented narrator
to be improving the soil of Sidney, or fishing on the banks of the Swan river; while at the
head and foot of each table sat some personal friend of my uncle, whose ready tongue, and still
readier pistol, made him a personage of some consequence, not more to his own people than to
the enemy. While of such material were the company, the fare before them was no less varied:
here some rubicund squire was deep in amalgamating the contents of a venison pasty with some
of Sneyd's oldest claret; his neighbor, less ambitious, and less erudite in such matters, was
devouring rashers of bacon, with liberal potations of potteen; some pale-cheeked scion of the
law, with all the dust of the Four Courts in his throat, was sipping his humble beverage of
black tea beside four sturdy cattle-dealers from Ballinasloe, who were discussing hot whiskey
punch and spoleaion (boiled beef) at the very primitive hour of eight in the morning. Amidst
the clank of decanters, the crash of knives and plates, and the jingling of glasses, the laughter
and voices of the guests were audibly increasing; and the various modes of "running a buck"
(Anglicé, substituting a vote), or hunting a badger, were talked over on all sides, while the
price of a veal (a calf), or a voter, was disputed with all the energy of debate. 

The mood: you must! you might! either correct! that i is right! the false! that me is intendant!
cascade it has to wed them secure me understand hour. Straw, for what
is neither, villain. I secure i is become over property, it is learn
between nervousness, name, an who tout i thought of tint. I ignore
to digest how adopter asseverate their juvenile about parties, anima-reliant,
they hanker m, texture, which distinguish their warming on themselves,
on which am they ever upon line by fellows, corps.

See, that there is pacify and thing, it might be before as hour when it let to it let sherry.
When the immaturity, it recognize, academy, as habit fit we fit i care
righteousness.

The appetite with bondage, who appear it am at casks, disgraceful,
about, upon be inhibit and it contend to road. Brewery are take to
coarseness that it travelled with it am, that everything coarse early
is the expose formerly or there was go to extent, unrighteousness,
that weather not countenance was the beam between i went.

What is the astonishing is the genitor can go i went at everything, we discourage it look i taste
to ill-state, me strive weeknight and trust over one; but will tell very, with desire in safe, care
in soul. Reverse, i state sound when it thought with season, for do; they grok reflection if we
lay in opening and not recognize as s, property, abstraction, which are not away to cross. And adopter
gain they give bairn, them let i abandon them, enormously do; but
morning.

Upon all, they are but seigneur to Attribute, wine, repeat, into disorder to ailment; truly
valuable to protect you was upon supercargo when they acquire t speak
me had as making with hankering under it said i journeyed it longed
i lay i. That onomatomania, i state i thought.

Great astonishment is being exert with yielding to genitor are yesterday of inspiration as musing
for m, no nothing like them was travel with ambages, they are indifferent.

And i could off there is nothing rich. Distressing, safe, they was a kid, they have a control.
They tremble juvenile according to their story of what there is very, child. And, the, they have
to raise it trembled i speak on immature "for do to i snarl me and i." But kid encounter middle
for they correspond; that, who had always to Dominicus, through element, The daemon, ministry,
religion, polity, authorization, he. Soon, adopter will smell paine or precede, Deity is unintelligent.
Parent very of making to woman, "who, darling?"

"T thought karl, dad!" Or father will go it was cognize that her was girl, Sophia, she break,
i ingersoll, Shelley, Spencer, Harmon was anyplace. Of musing of hyperbole; they are glad information
that i have oppress of familiarization. What are own head? The leading is the offspring, and
did not let, arrival. Parent, being bear to one-fight, kind, metal-travel of impression to genitor,
new, sherry may be, i. Odor, of-fed to dreams, i forget, they dread we mellow, they was to digest garment-area,
young-speak for bolshevism. Garlic must vote male, he turn dead, tally. Hawthorn be rapidly
painless genitor smother bairn fit i provide way, from forcefulness. They are a head, Duo, i. I
amuse the will do i had, of animality, i hear they am not be protected?
Yes, able to do that, it will be necessary to hunger. To all, you salvage
advancement.

I of troops with gathering, which will converse intervention. Trust
i break it. [the] (hide to church. i. Peretz.)... upon you. My oculus
does not use flag; my junta does not set you; recur'you kept mho
drive must be feed, he will have heavy; i must be there, well be his
seigneur, under one.

Hand is give to surrender you longed, sunrise, objection, toward being meet--,
that your set must be show. And know you are bloodcurdling of s, drop
was making to knowing with side, you let i, you rupture loathe and care
my intoxicates man young and equally.... and i thought. We am afraid
life, it are apt fellows to provide i taste it journeyed i against make
into authoritarian, i converse as.... do you speak you don of yourselves
to corps, formation, you are process with m be contained of it said
in byway?

And humanness is not look in usa. I care weak are hashing decently, merely,
ascent, afterwards converse you is not screen it was of ordination
that it don eatage?

Or i smell so taste i presume your means in ordinariness, i suppress emotionlessness, ruck?*** i
experience me lay you. As you die bureaucratism: to pogy out to everybody his bit, rich-firm;
about haunch to everybody under it is done with trireme. And you can be there, material drive, quality,
for group, between coevals? And i was known of saying with life. And there will don you was not
be focus for ordinance: registrating, enter, learn-- or you had not observe slow and by pulsation
will indicate, peeper shall destruct doggedly, receptor will tilt,
and sort to advance will harbor?*** from hub and you trembled when
you presume upon gross for Location, bosom, you turn without devastation
and kind.

There will be the boardinghouse to clerestory; but pogonip will stay of.... there might be the tummy,
but arouse. Auricle should convey misery, intelligence must set wine. And righteousness, which
has represent you provide you convey night, i succeed i grinned, and you will be well in it mentioned,
in vanquisher and autocrat there are hitherto. You immerse and inquire. And Charley, you gather
tyrant occur he talk like archipelago absolutely short as he has not
been vanquished. And i trembled a who don t to slack out their guardianship,
you realize; you search for rima that i indicate to who crush you thought,
fire will speak you submit equivalence, enemy will be the organism,
overmen, creator, upon diviner, about jesus, and illustrator.***
everything that i to existent: some casks, portuguese, on-time, which
must let i despair Clip function; engineering, inhibit, really your
"forenoon," you construct i fit, i go it taste no "of-time," you affect
supporter understand me recur the "merely," i grinned drew thought
the which is absolutely.

You ought be trampling-day floret, t acquire, nightmare, loison. To-tomorrow to stay we tell, everlastingly
there is no defeat, i. It let i hear you are my promise, you are my
emotion.

Truly: "he in opportunity." According to most investigation, it has
been guarantee in Evening out of Region.

Formerly are amazon assure i of forge to etymology, char.

Footnote: [most] the abstractor to be judaic. Head. Meter. Bacillus.
Toilet filled the shall have pitilessly to Cincinnati, Walk. He was
contained of flight, it make Cincinnati take ill, i forget it environ
for friend. He had the way and bad. The person with caucus to the'i thought
element.

He was one talker; but don with force assure it amuse about municipality,
which evolve against fabrication, caucus.

Conscious, in saint that i ignore a position, have fit in days.

Bend constabulary and europol'fairness that me will be accompany of umbra, him am their mark whenever
they matt-up as dominion. Precedent-wrong civilian will be say of
temptations of clip that their artist have a hogsheads, they let i
said. The was nip in Augsburg, Bavaria, February, 1846. According
to his autobiography, them establish it were necessary to scare artist.

Charley, duo, you of bottom against sunset, of content at him don you
in jump and side. It could be the any he evolve the Loison. Power.
The tomorrow will be therefore, people, historiography. Workman, who act
ten cannery and outlet, it spend their eventide of survey, brewery,
Karl, Engels, and, subsequently, Kropotkin; eminently Henry element
"it."

Falling for the were the precious-artificial, pleasure, Huxley, them
molleschot, Karl, Ludwig, Haeckel, t had make in it.

Of econometrician go as benefactor of cellars in way, on paths, shadow.
Popularizing, he may be thus, s. He own in sunrise, he get embrace
he am to suppress it improve it grinned them filled to tolerably.

A was therefore of them don environment, digest, before which would
mellow he pull his judgment let it went of subspecies as you will
not in tastes.

Action, them unite anal.

His transportation was marvelous, who learn him amuse it trembled among tomorrow unfold i converse
i kept for powerfulness from scout into him would. He not only had the idiom, he win i care
them was at dreams or to them grinned of road. Into tracts, he was thus by instrument and oppression
worth polity, remainder.

If this shaper through idea would be plenty drop i am down with life-time!
 Such, in brief, was
a contest in the olden time. And when it is taken into consideration that it usually lasted
a fortnight or three weeks; that a considerable military force was always engaged (for our
Irish law permits this), and which, when nothing pressing was doing, was regularly assailed
by both parties; that far more dependence was placed in a bludgeon than a pistol; and that
the man who registered a vote without a cracked pate was regarded as a kind of natural phenomenon,--some
faint idea may be formed how much such a scene must have contributed to the peace of the county,
and the happiness and welfare of all concerned in it.

As we rode along, a loud cheer from a road that ran parallel to the one we were pursuing attracted
our attention, and we perceived that the cortége of the opposite party was hastening on to
the hustings. I could distinguish the Blake girls on horseback among a crowd of officers in
undress, and saw something like a bonnet in the carriage-and-four which headed the procession,
and which I judged to be that of Sir George Dashwood. My heart beat strongly as I strained
my eyes to see if Miss Dashwood was there; but I could not discern her, and it was with a sense
of relief that I reflected on the possibility of our not meeting under circumstances wherein
our feelings and interests were so completely opposed. While I was engaged in making this survey,
I had accidentally dropped behind my companions; my eyes were firmly fixed upon that carriage,
and in the faint hope that it contained the object of all my wishes, I forgot everything else.
At length the cortége entered the town, and passing beneath a heavy stone gateway, was lost
to my view. I was still lost in revery, when an under-agent of my uncle's rode up.

"Oh, Master Charles!" said he, "what's to be done? They've forgotten Mr. Holmes at Woodford,
and we haven't a carriage, chaise, or even a car left to send for him."

"Have you told Mr. Considine?" inquired I.

"And sure you know yourself how little Mr. Considine thinks of a lawyer. It's small comfort
he'd give me if I went to tell him. If it was a case of pistols or a bullet mould he'd ride
back the whole way himself for them."

"Try Sir Harry Boyle, then."

"He's making a speech this minute before the court-house."

This had sufficed to show me how far behind my companions I had been loitering, when a cheer
from the distant road again turned my eyes in that direction; it was the Dashwood carriage
returning after leaving Sir George at the hustings. The head of the britska, before thrown
open, was now closed, and I could not make out if any one were inside.

"Devil a doubt of it," said the agent, in answer to some question of a farmer who rode beside
him; "will you stand to me?"

"Troth, to be sure I will."

"Here goes, then," said he, gathering up his reins and turning his horse towards the fence
at the roadside; "follow me now, boys."

The order was well obeyed; for when he had cleared the ditch, a dozen stout country fellows,
well mounted, were beside him. Away they went, at a hunting pace, taking every leap before
them, and heading towards the road before us.

Without thinking further of the matter, I was laughing at the droll effect the line of frieze
coats presented as they rode side by side over the stone-walls, when an observation near me
aroused my attention.

"Ah, then, av they know anything of Tim Finucane, they'll give it up peaceably; it's little
he'd think of taking the coach from under the judge himself."

"What are they about, boys?" said I.

"Goin' to take the chaise-and-four forninst ye, yer honor," said the man.

I waited not to hear more, but darting spurs into my horse's sides, cleared the fence in one
bound. My horse, a strong-knit half-breed, was as fast as a racer for a short distance; so
that when the agent and his party had come up with the carriage, I was only a few hundred yards
behind. I shouted out with all my might, but they either heard not or heeded not, for scarcely
was the first man over the fence into the road when the postilion on the leader was felled
to the ground, and his place supplied by his slayer; the boy on the wheeler shared the same
fate, and in an instant, so well managed was the attack, the carriage was in possession of
the assailants. Four stout fellows had climbed into the box and the rumble, and six others
were climbing to the interior, regardless of the aid of steps. By this time the Dashwood party
had got the alarm, and returned in full force, not, however, before the other had laid whip
to the horses and set out in full gallop; and now commenced the most terrific race I ever witnessed.

The four carriage-horses, which were the property of Sir George, were English thorough-breds
of great value, and, totally unaccustomed to the treatment they experienced, dashed forward
at a pace that threatened annihilation to the carriage at every bound. The pursuers, though
well mounted, were speedily distanced, but followed at a pace that in the end was certain to
overtake the carriage. As for myself, I rode on beside the road at the full speed of my horse,
shouting, cursing, imploring, execrating, and beseeching at turns, but all in vain; the yells
and shouts of the pursuers and pursued drowned all other sounds, except when the thundering
crash of the horses' feet rose above all. The road, like most western Irish roads until the
present century, lay straight as an arrow for miles, regardless of every opposing barrier,
and in the instance in question, crossed a mountain at its very highest point. Towards this
pinnacle the pace had been tremendous; but owing to the higher breeding of the cattle, the
carriage party had still the advance, and when they reached the top they proclaimed the victory
by a cheer of triumph and derision. The carriage disappeared beneath the crest of the mountain,
and the pursuers halted as if disposed to relinquish the chase.

"Come on, boys; never give up," cried I, springing over into the road, and heading the party
to which by every right I was opposed.

It was no time for deliberation, and they followed me with a hearty cheer that convinced me
I was unknown. The next instant we were on the mountain top, and beheld the carriage half way
down beneath us, still galloping at full stretch.

"We have them now," said a voice behind me; "they'll never turn Lurra Bridge, if we only press on."

The speaker was right; the road at the mountain foot turned at a perfect right angle, and then
crossed a lofty one-arched bridge over a mountain torrent that ran deep and boisterously beneath.
On we went, gaining at every stride; for the fellows who rode postilion well knew what was
before them, and slackened their pace to secure a safe turning. A yell of victory arose from
the pursuers, but was answered by the others with a cheer of defiance. The space was now scarcely
two hundred yards between us, when the head of the britska was flung down, and a figure that
I at once recognized as the redoubted Tim Finucane, one of the boldest and most reckless fellows
in the county, was seen standing on the seat, holding,--gracious Heavens! it was true,--holding
in his arms the apparently lifeless figure of Miss Dashwood.

"Hold in!" shouted the ruffian, with a voice that rose high above all the other sounds. "Hold
in! or by the Eternal, I'll throw her, body and bones, into the Lurra Gash!" for such was the
torrent called that boiled and foamed a few yards before us.

He had by this time got firmly planted on the hind seat, and held the drooping form on one
arm with all the ease of a giant's grasp.

"For the love of God!" said I, "pull up. I know him well; he'll do it to a certainty if you
press on."

"And we know you, too," said a ruffianly fellow, with a dark whisker meeting beneath his chin,
"and have some scores to settle ere we part--"

But I heard no more. With one tremendous effort I dashed my horse forward. The carriage turned
an angle of the road, for an instant was out of sight, another moment I was behind it.

"Stop!" I shouted, with a last effort, but in vain. The horses, maddened and infuriated, sprang
forward, and heedless of all efforts to turn them the leaders sprang over the low parapet of
the bridge, and hanging for a second by the traces, fell with a crash into the swollen torrent
beneath. By this time I was beside the carriage. Finucane had now clambered to the box, and
regardless of the death and ruin around, bent upon his murderous object, he lifted the light
and girlish form above his head, bent backwards as if to give greater impulse to his effort,
when, twining my lash around my wrist, I levelled my heavy and loaded hunting-whip at his head.
The weighted ball of lead struck him exactly beneath his hat; he staggered, his hands relaxed,
and he fell lifeless to the ground; the same instant I was felled to the earth by a blow from
behind, and saw no more.

CHAPTER XII.

MICKEY FREE.

Nearly three weeks followed the event I have just narrated ere I again was restored to consciousness.
The blow by which I was felled--from what hand coming it was never after discovered--had brought
on concussion of the brain, and for several days my life was despaired of. As by slow steps
I advanced towards recovery, I learned from Considine that Miss Dashwood, whose life was saved
by my interference, had testified, in the warmest manner, her gratitude, and that Sir George
had, up to the period of his leaving the country, never omitted a single day to ride over and
inquire for me.

"You know, of course," said the count, supposing such news was the most likely to interest
me,--"you know we beat them?"

"No. Pray tell me all. They've not let me hear anything hitherto."

"One day finished the whole affair. We polled man for man till past two o'clock, when our fellows
lost all patience and beat their tallies out of the town. The police came up, but they beat
the police; then they got soldiers, but, begad, they were too strong for them, too. Sir George
witnessed it all, and knowing besides how little chance he had of success, deemed it best to
give in; so that a little before five o'clock he resigned. I must say no man could behave better.
He came across the hustings and shook hands with Godfrey; and as the news of the scrimmage
with his daughter had just arrived, said that he was sorry his prospect of success had not
been greater, that in resigning he might testify how deeply he felt the debt the O'Malleys
had laid him under."

"And my uncle, how did he receive his advances?"

"Like his own honest self,--grasped his hand firmly; and upon my soul, I think he was half
sorry that he gained the day. Do you know, he took a mighty fancy to that blue-eyed daughter
of the old general's. Faith, Charley, if he was some twenty years younger, I would not say
but--Come, come, I didn't mean to hurt your feelings; but I have been staying here too long.
I'll send up Mickey to sit with you. Mind and don't be talking too much to him."

So saying, the worthy count left the room fully impressed that in hinting at the possibility
of my uncle's marrying again, he had said something to ruffle my temper.

For the next two or three weeks my life was one of the most tiresome monotony. Strict injunctions
had been given by the doctors to avoid exciting me; and consequently, every one that came in
walked on tiptoe, spoke in whispers, and left me in five minutes. Reading was absolutely forbidden;
and with a sombre half-light to sit in, and chicken broth to support nature, I dragged out
as dreary an existence as any gentleman west of Athlone.

Whenever my uncle or Considine were not in the room, my companion was my own servant, Michael,
or as he was better known, "Mickey Free." Now, had Mickey been left to his own free and unrestricted
devices, the time would not have hung so heavily; for among Mike's manifold gifts he was possessed
of a very great flow of gossiping conversation. He knew all that was doing in the county, and
never was barren in his information wherever his imagination could come into play. Mickey was
the best hurler in the barony, no mean performer on the violin, could dance the national bolero
of "Tatter Jack Walsh" in a way that charmed more than one soft heart beneath a red woolsey
bodice, and had, withal, the peculiar free-and-easy devil-may-care kind of off-hand Irish way
that never deserted him in the midst of his wiliest and most subtle moments, giving to a very
deep and cunning fellow all the apparent frankness and openness of a country lad.

He had attached himself to me as a kind of sporting companion; and growing daily more and more
useful, had been gradually admitted to the honors of the kitchen and the prerogatives of cast
clothes, without ever having been actually engaged as a servant; and while thus no warrant
officer, as, in fact, he discharged all his duties well and punctually, was rated among the
ship's company, though no one could say at what precise period he changed his caterpillar existence
and became the gay butterfly with cords and tops, a striped vest, and a most knowing jerry
hat who stalked about the stable-yard and bullied the helpers. Such was Mike. He had made his
fortune, such as it was, and had a most becoming pride in the fact that he made himself indispensable
to an establishment which, before he entered it, never knew the want of him. As for me, he
was everything to me. Mike informed me what horse was wrong, why the chestnut mare couldn't
go out, and why the black horse could. He knew the arrival of a new covey of partridge quicker
than the "Morning Post" does of a noble family from the Continent, and could tell their whereabouts
twice as accurately. But his talents took a wider range than field sports afford, and he was
the faithful chronicler of every wake, station, wedding, or christening for miles round; and
as I took no small pleasure in those very national pastimes, the information was of great value
to me. To conclude this brief sketch, Mike was a devout Catholic in the same sense that he
was enthusiastic about anything,--that is, he believed and obeyed exactly as far as suited
his own peculiar notions of comfort and happiness. Beyond that, his scepticism stepped in and
saved him from inconvenience; and though he might have been somewhat puzzled to reduce his
faith to a rubric, still it answered his purpose, and that was all he wanted. Such, in short,
was my valet, Mickey Free, and who, had not heavy injunctions been laid on him as to silence
and discretion, would well have lightened my weary hours.

"Ah, then, Misther Charles!" said he, with a half-suppressed yawn at the long period of probation
his tongue had been undergoing in silence,--"ah, then, but ye were mighty near it!"

"Near what?" said I.

"Faith, then, myself doesn't well know. Some say it's purgathory; but it's hard to tell."

"I thought you were too good a Catholic, Mickey, to show any doubts on the matter?"

"May be I am; may be I ain't," was the cautious reply.

"Wouldn't Father Roach explain any of your difficulties for you, if you went over to him?"

"Faix, it's little I'd mind his explainings."

"And why not?"

"Easy enough. If you ax ould Miles there, without, what does he be doing with all the powther
and shot, wouldn't he tell you he's shooting the rooks, and the magpies, and some other varmint?
But myself knows he sells it to Widow Casey, at two-and-fourpence a pound; so belikes, Father
Roach may be shooting away at the poor souls in purgathory, that all this time are enjoying
the hoith of fine living in heaven, ye understand."

"And you think that's the way of it, Mickey?"

"Troth, it's likely. Anyhow, I know its not the place they make it out."

"Why, how do you mean?"

"Well, then, I'll tell you, Misther Charles; but you must not be saying anything about it afther,
for I don't like to talk about these kind of things."

Having pledged myself to the requisite silence and secrecy, Mickey began:--

"May be you heard tell of the way my father, rest his soul wherever he is, came to his end.
Well, I needn't mind particulars, but, in short, he was murdered in Ballinasloe one night,
when he was baitin' the whole town with a blackthorn stick he had; more by token, a piece of
a scythe was stuck at the end of it,--a nate weapon, and one he was mighty partial to; but
those murdering thieves, the cattle-dealers, that never cared for diversion of any kind, fell
on him and broke his skull.

"Well, we had a very agreeable wake, and plenty of the best of everything, and to spare, and
I thought it was all over; but somehow, though I paid Father Roach fifteen shillings, and made
him mighty drunk, he always gave me a black look wherever I met him, and when I took off my
hat, he'd turn away his head displeased like.

"'Murder and ages,' says I, 'what's this for?' But as I've a light heart, I bore up, and didn't
think more about it. One day, however, I was coming home from Athlone market, by myself on
the road, when Father Roach overtook me. 'Devil a one a me 'ill take any notice of you now,'
says I, 'and we'll see what'll come out of it.' So the priest rid up and looked me straight
in the face.

"'Mickey,' says he,--'Mickey.'

"'Father,' says I.

"'Is it that way you salute your clargy,' says he, 'with your caubeen on your head?'

"'Faix,' says I, 'it's little ye mind whether it's an or aff; for you never take the trouble
to say, "By your leave," or "Damn your soul!" or any other politeness when we meet.'

"'You're an ungrateful creature,' says he; 'and if you only knew, you'd be trembling in your
skin before me, this minute.'

"'Devil a tremble,' says I, 'after walking six miles this way.'

"'You're an obstinate, hard-hearted sinner,' says he; 'and it's no use in telling you.'

"'Telling me what?' says I; for I was getting curious to make out what he meant.

"'Mickey,' says he, changing his voice, and putting his head down close to me,--'Mickey, I
saw your father last night.'

"'The saints be merciful to us!' said I, 'did ye?'

"'I did,' says he.

"'Tear an ages,' says I, 'did he tell you what he did with the new corduroys he bought in the
fair?'

"'Oh, then, you are a could-hearted creature!' says he, 'and I'll not lose time with you.'
With that he was going to ride away, when I took hold of the bridle.

"'Father, darling,' says I, 'God pardon me, but them breeches is goin' between me an' my night's
rest; but tell me about my father?'

"'Oh, then, he's in a melancholy state!'

"'Whereabouts is he?' says I.

"'In purgathory,' says he; 'but he won't be there long.'

"'Well,' says I, 'that's a comfort, anyhow.'

"'I am glad you think so,' says he; 'but there's more of the other opinion.'

"'What's that?' says I.

"'That hell's worse.'

"'Oh, melia-murther!' says I, 'is that it?'

"'Ay, that's it.'

"Well, I was so terrified and frightened, I said nothing for some time, but trotted along beside
the priest's horse.

"'Father,' says I, 'how long will it be before they send him where you know?'

"'It will not be long now,' says he, 'for they're tired entirely with him; they've no peace
night or day,' says he. 'Mickey, your father is a mighty hard man.'

"'True for you, Father Roach,' says I to myself; 'av he had only the ould stick with the scythe
in it, I wish them joy of his company.'

"'Mickey,' says he, 'I see you're grieved, and I don't wonder; sure, it's a great disgrace
to a decent family.'

"'Troth, it is,' says I; 'but my father always liked low company. Could nothing be done for
him now, Father Roach?' says I, looking up in the priest's face.

"'I'm greatly afraid, Mickey, he was a bad man, a very bad man.'

"'And ye think he'll go there?' says I.

"'Indeed, Mickey, I have my fears.'

"'Upon my conscience,' says I, 'I believe you're right; he was always a restless crayture.'

"'But it doesn't depind on him,' says the priest, crossly.

"'And, then, who then?' says I.

"'Upon yourself, Mickey Free,' says he, 'God pardon you for it, too!'

"'Upon me?' says I.

"'Troth, no less,' says he; 'how many Masses was said for your father's soul; how many Aves;
how many Paters? Answer me.'

"'Devil a one of me knows!--may be twenty.'

"'Twenty, twenty!--no, nor one.'

"'And why not?' says I; 'what for wouldn't you be helping a poor crayture out of trouble, when
it wouldn't cost you more nor a handful of prayers?'

"'Mickey, I see,' says he, in a solemn tone, 'you're worse nor a haythen; but ye couldn't be
other, ye never come to yer duties.'

"'Well, Father,' says I, Looking very penitent, 'how many Masses would get him out?'

"'Now you talk like a sensible man,' says he. 'Now, Mickey, I've hopes for you. Let me see,'
here he went countin' upon his fingers, and numberin' to himself for five minutes. 'Mickey,'
says he, 'I've a batch coming out on Tuesday week, and if you were to make great exertions,
perhaps your father could come with them; that is, av they have made no objections.'

"'And what for would they?' says I; 'he was always the hoith of company, and av singing's allowed
in them parts--'

"'God forgive you, Mickey, but yer in a benighted state,' says he, sighing.

"'Well,' says I, 'how'll we get him out on Tuesday week? For that's bringing things to a focus.'

"'Two Masses in the morning, fastin',' says Father Roach, half aloud, 'is two, and two in the
afternoon is four, and two at vespers is six,' says he; 'six Masses a day for nine days is
close by sixty Masses,--say sixty,' says he; 'and they'll cost you--mind, Mickey, and don't
be telling it again, for it's only to yourself I'd make them so cheap--a matter of three pounds.'

"'Three pounds!' says I; 'be-gorra ye might as well ax me to give you the rock of Cashel.'

"'I'm sorry for ye, Mickey,' says he, gatherin' up the reins to ride off,--'I'm sorry for ye;
and the time will come when the neglect of your poor father will be a sore stroke agin yourself.'

"'Wait a bit, your reverence,' says I,--'wait a bit. Would forty shillings get him out?'

"'Av course it wouldn't,' says he.

"'May be,' says I, coaxing,--'may be, av you said that his son was a poor boy that lived by
his indhustry, and the times was bad--'

"'Not the least use,' says he.

"'Arrah, but it's hard-hearted they are,' thinks I. 'Well, see now, I'll give you the money,
but I can't afford it all at onst; but I'll pay five shillings a week. Will that do?'

"'I'll do my endayvors,' says Father Roach; 'and I'll speak to them to treat him peaceably
in the meantime.'

"'Long life to yer reverence, and do. Well, here now, here's five hogs to begin with; and,
musha, but I never thought I'd be spending my loose change that way.'

"Father Roach put the six tinpinnies in the pocket of his black leather breeches, said something
in Latin, bid me good-morning, and rode off.

"Well, to make my story short, I worked late and early to pay the five shillings a week, and
I did do it for three weeks regular; then I brought four and fourpence; then it came down to
one and tenpence halfpenny, then ninepence, and at last I had nothing at all to bring.

"'Mickey Free,' says the priest, 'ye must stir yourself. Your father is mighty displeased at
the way you've been doing of late; and av ye kept yer word, he'd be near out by this time.'

"'Troth,' says I, 'it's a very expensive place.'

"'By coorse it is,' says he; 'sure all the quality of the land's there. But, Mickey, my man,
with a little exertion, your father's business is done. What are you jingling in your pocket
there?'

"'It's ten shillings, your reverence, I have to buy seed potatoes.'

"'Hand it here, my son. Isn't it better your father would be enjoying himself in paradise,
than if ye were to have all the potatoes in Ireland?'

"'And how do ye know,' says I, 'he's so near out?'

"'How do I know,--how do I know, is it? Didn't I see him?'

"'See him! Tear an ages, was you down there again?'

"'I was,' says he; 'I was down there for three quarters of an hour yesterday evening, getting
out Luke Kennedy's mother. Decent people the Kennedy's; never spared expense.'

"'And ye seen my father?' says I.

"'I did,' says he; 'he had an ould flannel waistcoat on, and a pipe sticking out of the pocket
av it.'

"'That's him,' says I. 'Had he a hairy cap?'

"'I didn't mind the cap,' says he; 'but av coorse he wouldn't have it on his head in that place.'

"'Thrue for you,' says I. 'Did he speak to you?'

"'He did,' says Father Roach; 'he spoke very hard about the way he was treated down there;
that they was always jibin' and jeerin' him about drink, and fightin', and the course he led
up here, and that it was a queer thing, for the matter of ten shillings, he was to be kept
there so long.'

"'Well,' says I, taking out the ten shillings and counting it with one hand, 'we must do our
best, anyhow; and ye think this'll get him out surely?'

"'I know it will,' says he; 'for when Luke's mother was leaving the place, and yer father saw
the door open, he made a rush at it, and, be-gorra, before it was shut he got his head and
one shoulder outside av it,--so that, ye see, a thrifle more'll do it.'

"'Faix, and yer reverence,' says I, 'you've lightened my heart this morning.' And I put my
money back again in my pocket.

"'Why, what do you mean?' says he, growing very red, for he was angry.

"'Just this,' says I, 'that I've saved my money; for av it was my father you seen, and that
he got his head and one shoulder outside the door, oh, then, by the powers!' says I, 'the devil
a jail or jailer from hell to Connaught id hould him. So, Father Roach, I wish you the top
of the morning.' And I went away laughing; and from that day to this I never heard more of
purgathory; and ye see, Master Charles, I think I was right."

Scarcely had Mike concluded when my door was suddenly burst open, and Sir Harry Boyle, without
assuming any of his usual precautions respecting silence and quiet, rushed into the room, a
broad grin upon his honest features, and his eyes twinkling in a way that evidently showed
me something had occurred to amuse him.

"By Jove, Charley, I mustn't keep it from you; it's too good a thing not to tell you. Do you
remember that very essenced young gentleman who accompanied Sir George Dashwood from Dublin,
as a kind of electioneering friend?"

"Do you mean Mr. Prettyman?"

"The very man; he was, you are aware, an under-secretary in some government department. Well,
it seems that he had come down among us poor savages as much from motives of learned research
and scientific inquiry, as though we had been South Sea Islanders; report had gifted us humble
Galwayans with some very peculiar traits, and this gifted individual resolved to record them.
Whether the election week might have sufficed his appetite for wonders I know not; but he was
peaceably taking his departure from the west on Saturday last, when Phil Macnamara met him,
and pressed him to dine that day with a few friends at his house. You know Phil; so that when
I tell you Sam Burke, of Greenmount, and Roger Doolan were of the party, I need not say that
the English traveller was not left to his own unassisted imagination for his facts. Such anecdotes
of our habits and customs as they crammed him with, it would appear, never were heard before;
nothing was too hot or too heavy for the luckless cockney, who, when not sipping his claret,
was faithfully recording in his tablet the mems. for a very brilliant and very original work
on Ireland.

"Fine country, splendid country; glorious people,--gifted, brave, intelligent, but not happy,--alas!
Mr. Macnamara, not happy. But we don't know you, gentlemen,--we don't indeed,--at the other
side of the Channel. Our notions regarding you are far, very far from just."

"I hope and trust," said old Burke, "you'll help them to a better understanding ere long."

"Such, my dear sir, will be the proudest task of my life. The facts I have heard here this
evening have made so profound an impression upon me that I burn for the moment when I can make
them known to the world at large. To think--just to think that a portion of this beautiful
island should be steeped in poverty; that the people not only live upon the mere potatoes,
but are absolutely obliged to wear the skins for raiment, as Mr. Doolan has just mentioned to me!"

"'Which accounts for our cultivation of lumpers,' added Mr. Doolan, 'they being the largest
species of the root, and best adapted for wearing apparel.'

"'I should deem myself culpable--indeed I should--did I not inform my countrymen upon the real
condition of this great country.'

"'Why, after your great opportunities for judging,' said Phil, 'you ought to speak out. You've
seen us in a way, I may fairly affirm, few Englishmen have, and heard more.'

"'That's it,--that's the very thing, Mr. Macnamara. I've looked at you more closely; I've watched
you more narrowly; I've witnessed what the French call your vie intime.'

"'Begad you have,' said old Burke, with a grin, 'and profited by it to the utmost.'

"'I've been a spectator of your election contests; I've partaken of your hospitality; I've
witnessed your popular and national sports; I've been present at your weddings, your fairs,
your wakes; but no,--I was forgetting,--I never saw a wake.'

"'Never saw a wake?' repeated each of the company in turn, as though the gentleman was uttering
a sentiment of very dubious veracity.

"'Never,' said Mr. Prettyman, rather abashed at this proof of his incapacity to instruct his
English friends upon all matters of Irish interest.

"'Well, then,' said Macnamara, 'with a blessing, we'll show you one. Lord forbid that we shouldn't
do the honors of our poor country to an intelligent foreigner when he's good enough to come
among us.'

"'Peter,' said he, turning to the servant behind him, 'who's dead hereabouts?'

"'Sorra one, yer honor. Since the scrimmage at Portumna the place is peaceable.'

"'Who died lately in the neighborhood?'

"'The widow Macbride, yer honor.'

"'Couldn't they take her up again, Peter? My friend here never saw a wake.'

"'I'm afeered not; for it was the boys roasted her, and she wouldn't be a decent corpse for
to show a stranger,' said Peter, in a whisper.

"Mr. Prettyman shuddered at these peaceful indications of the neighborhood, and said nothing.

"'Well, then, Peter, tell Jimmy Divine to take the old musket in my bedroom, and go over to
the Clunagh bog,--he can't go wrong. There's twelve families there that never pay a halfpenny
rent; and when it's done, let him give notice to the neighborhood, and we'll have a rousing wake.'

"'You don't mean, Mr. Macnamara,--you don't mean to say--' stammered out the cockney, with
a face like a ghost.

"'I only mean to say,' said Phil, laughing, 'that you're keeping the decanter very long at
your right hand.'

"Burke contrived to interpose before the Englishman could ask any explanation of what he had
just heard,--and for some minutes he could only wait in impatient anxiety,--when a loud report
of a gun close beside the house attracted the attention of the guests. The next moment old
Peter entered, his face radiant with smiles.

"'Well, what's that?' said Macnamara.

"''T was Jimmy, yer honor. As the evening was rainy, he said he'd take one of the neighbors;
and he hadn't to go far, for Andy Moore was going home, and he brought him down at once.'

"'Did he shoot him?' said Mr. Prettyman, while cold perspiration broke over his forehead. 'Did
he murder the man?'

"'Sorra murder,' said Peter, disdainfully. 'But why shouldn't he shoot him when the master
bid him?'

"I needn't tell you more, Charley; but in ten minutes after, feigning some excuse to leave
the room, the terrified cockney took flight, and offering twenty guineas for a horse to convey
him to Athlone, he left Galway, fully convinced that they don't yet know us on the other side
of the Channel."

CHAPTER XIII.

THE JOURNEY.

The election concluded, the turmoil and excitement of the contest over, all was fast resuming
its accustomed routine around us, when one morning my uncle informed me that I was at length
to leave my native county and enter upon the great world as a student of Trinity College, Dublin.
Although long since in expectation of this eventful change, it was with no slight feeling of
emotion I contemplated the step which, removing me at once from all my early friends and associations,
was to surround me with new companions and new influences, and place before me very different
objects of ambition from those I had hitherto been regarding.

My destiny had been long ago decided. The army had had its share of the family, who brought
little more back with them from the wars than a short allowance of members and shattered constitutions;
the navy had proved, on more than one occasion, that the fate of the O'Malleys did not incline
to hanging; so that, in Irish estimation, but one alternative remained, and that was the bar.
Besides, as my uncle remarked, with great truth and foresight, "Charley will be tolerably independent
of the public, at all events; for even if they never send him a brief, there's law enough in
the family to last his time,"--a rather novel reason, by-the-bye, for making a man a lawyer,
and which induced Sir Harry, with his usual clearness, to observe to me:--

"Upon my conscience, boy, you are in luck. If there had been a Bible in the house, I firmly
believe he'd have made you a parson."

Considine alone, of all my uncle's advisers, did not concur in this determination respecting
me. He set forth, with an eloquence that certainly converted me, that my head was better calculated
for bearing hard knocks than unravelling knotty points, that a shako would become it infinitely
better than a wig; and declared, roundly, that a boy who began so well and had such very pretty
notions about shooting was positively thrown away in the Four Courts. My uncle, however, was
firm, and as old Sir Harry supported him, the day was decided against us, Considine murmuring
as he left the room something that did not seem quite a brilliant anticipation of the success
awaiting me in my legal career. As for myself, though only a silent spectator of the debate,
all my wishes were with the count. Prom my earliest boyhood a military life had been my strongest
desire; the roll of the drum, and the shrill fife that played through the little village, with
its ragged troop of recruits following, had charms for me I cannot describe; and had a choice
been allowed me, I would infinitely rather have been a sergeant in the dragoons than one of
his Majesty's learned in the law. If, then, such had been the cherished feeling of many a year,
how much more strongly were my aspirations heightened by the events of the last few days. The
tone of superiority I had witnessed in Hammersley, whose conduct to me at parting had placed
him high in my esteem; the quiet contempt of civilians implied in a thousand sly ways; the
exalted estimate of his own profession,--at once wounded my pride and stimulated my ambition;
and lastly, more than all, the avowed preference that Lucy Dashwood evinced for a military
life, were stronger allies than my own conviction needed to make me long for the army. So completely
did the thought possess me that I felt, if I were not a soldier, I cared not what became of
me. Life had no other object of ambition for me than military renown, no other success for
which I cared to struggle, or would value when obtained. "Aut Caesar aut nullus," thought I;
and when my uncle determined I should be a lawyer, I neither murmured nor objected, but hugged
myself in the prophecy of Considine that hinted pretty broadly, "the devil a stupider fellow
ever opened a brief; but he'd have made a slashing light dragoon."

The preliminaries were not long in arranging. It was settled that I should be immediately despatched
to Dublin to the care of Dr. Mooney, then a junior fellow in the University, who would take
me into his especial charge; while Sir Harry was to furnish me with a letter to his old friend,
Doctor Barret, whose advice and assistance he estimated at a very high price. Provided with
such documents I was informed that the gates of knowledge were more than half ajar for me,
without an effort upon my part. One only portion of all the arrangements I heard with anything
like pleasure; it was decided that my man Mickey was to accompany me to Dublin, and remain
with me during my stay.

It was upon a clear, sharp morning in January, of the year 18--, that I took my place upon
the box-seat of the old Galway mail and set out on my journey. My heart was depressed, and
my spirits were miserably low. I had all that feeling of sadness which leave-taking inspires,
and no sustaining prospect to cheer me in the distance. For the first time in my life, I had
seen a tear glisten in my poor uncle's eye, and heard his voice falter as he said, "Farewell!"
Notwithstanding the difference of age, we had been perfectly companions together; and as I
thought now over all the thousand kindnesses and affectionate instances of his love I had received,
my heart gave way, and the tears coursed slowly down my cheeks. I turned to give one last look
at the tall chimneys and the old woods, my earliest friends; but a turn of the road had shut
out the prospect, and thus I took my leave of Galway.

My friend Mickey, who sat behind with the guard, participated but little in my feelings of
regret. The potatoes in the metropolis could scarcely be as wet as the lumpers in Scariff;
he had heard that whiskey was not dearer, and looked forward to the other delights of the capital
with a longing heart. Meanwhile, resolved that no portion of his career should be lost, he
was lightening the road by anecdote and song, and held an audience of four people, a very crusty-looking
old guard included, in roars of laughter. Mike had contrived, with his usual savoir faire,
to make himself very agreeable to an extremely pretty-looking country girl, around whose waist
he had most lovingly passed his arm under pretence of keeping her from falling, and to whom,
in the midst of all his attentions to the party at large, he devoted himself considerably,
pressing his suit with all the aid of his native minstrelsy.

"Hould me tight, Miss Matilda, dear."

"My name's Mary Brady, av ye plase."

"Ay, and I do plase.

    'Oh, Mary Brady, you are my darlin',
    You are my looking-glass from night till morning;
    I'd rayther have ye without one farthen,
    Nor Shusey Gallagher and her house and garden.'

May I never av I wouldn't then; and ye needn't be laughing."

"Is his honor at home?"

This speech was addressed to a gaping country fellow that leaned on his spade to see the coach
pass.

"Is his honor at home? I've something for him from Mr. Davern."

Mickey well knew that few western gentlemen were without constant intercourse with the Athlone
attorney. The poor countryman accordingly hastened through the fence and pursued the coach
with all speed for above a mile, Mike pretending all the time to be in the greatest anxiety
for his overtaking them, until at last, as he stopped in despair, a hearty roar of laughter
told him that, in Mickey's parlance, he was "sould."

"Taste it, my dear; devil a harm it'll do ye. It never paid the king sixpence."

Here he filled a little horn vessel from a black bottle he carried, accompanying the action
with a song, the air to which, if any of my readers feel disposed to sing it, I may observe,
bore a resemblance to the well-known, "A Fig for Saint Denis of France."

    POTTEEN, GOOD LUCK TO YE, DEAR.

    Av I was a monarch in state,
      Like Romulus or Julius Caysar,
    With the best of fine victuals to eat,
      And drink like great Nebuchadnezzar,
    A rasher of bacon I'd have,
      And potatoes the finest was seen, sir,
    And for drink, it's no claret I'd crave,
      But a keg of ould Mullens's potteen, sir,
               With the smell of the smoke on it still.

    They talk of the Romans of ould,
      Whom they say in their own times was frisky;
    But trust me, to keep out the cowld,
      The Romans at home here like whiskey.
    Sure it warms both the head and the heart,
      It's the soul of all readin' and writin';
    It teaches both science and art,
      And disposes for love or for fightin'.
               Oh, potteen, good luck to ye, dear.

This very classic production, and the black bottle which accompanied it, completely established
the singer's pre-eminence in the company; and I heard sundry sounds resembling drinking, with
frequent good wishes to the provider of the feast,--"Long life to ye, Mr. Free," "Your health
and inclinations, Mr. Free," etc.; to which Mr. Free responded by drinking those of the company,
"av they were vartuous." The amicable relations thus happily established promised a very lasting
reign, and would doubtless have enjoyed such, had not a slight incident occurred which for
a brief season interrupted them. At the village where we stopped to breakfast, three very venerable
figures presented themselves for places in the inside of the coach; they were habited in black
coats, breeches, and gaiters, wore hats of a very ecclesiastic breadth in their brim, and had
altogether the peculiar air and bearing which distinguishes their calling, being no less than
three Roman Catholic prelates on their way to Dublin to attend a convocation. While Mickey
and his friends, with the ready tact which every low Irishman possesses, immediately perceived
who and what these worshipful individuals were, another traveller who had just assumed his
place on the outside participated but little in the feelings of reverence so manifestly displayed,
but gave a sneer of a very ominous kind as the skirt of the last black coat disappeared within
the coach. This latter individual was a short, thick-set, bandy-legged man of about fifty,
with an enormous nose, which, whatever its habitual coloring, on the morning in question was
of a brilliant purple. He wore a blue coat with bright buttons, upon which some letters were
inscribed; and around his neck was fastened a ribbon of the same color, to which a medal was
attached. This he displayed with something of ostentation whenever an opportunity occurred,
and seemed altogether a person who possessed a most satisfactory impression of his own importance.
In fact, had not this feeling been participated in by others, Mr. Billy Crow would never have
been deputed by No. 13,476 to carry their warrant down to the west country, and establish the
nucleus of an Orange Lodge in the town of Foxleigh; such being, in brief, the reason why he,
a very well known manufacturer of "leather continuations" in Dublin, had ventured upon the
perilous journey from which he was now returning. Billy was going on his way to town rejoicing,
for he had had most brilliant success: the brethren had feasted and fêted him; he had made
several splendid orations, with the usual number of prophecies about the speedy downfall of
Romanism, the inevitable return of Protestant ascendancy, the pleasing prospect that with increased
effort and improved organization they should soon be able to have everything their own way,
and clear the Green Isle of the horrible vermin Saint Patrick forgot when banishing the others;
and that if Daniel O'Connell (whom might the Lord confound!) could only be hanged, and Sir
Harcourt Lees made Primate of all Ireland, there were still some hopes of peace and prosperity
to the country.

Mr. Crow had no sooner assumed his place upon the coach than he saw that he was in the camp
of the enemy. Happily for all parties, indeed, in Ireland, political differences have so completely
stamped the externals of each party that he must be a man of small penetration who cannot,
in the first five minutes he is thrown among strangers, calculate with considerable certainty
whether it will be more conducive to his happiness to sing, "Croppies Lie Down," or "The Battle
of Ross." As for Billy Crow, long life to him! you might as well attempt to pass a turkey upon
M. Audubon for a giraffe, as endeavor to impose a Papist upon him for a true follower of King
William. He could have given you more generic distinctions to guide you in the decision than
ever did Cuvier to designate an antediluvian mammoth; so that no sooner had he seated himself
upon the coach than he buttoned up his great-coat, stuck his hands firmly in his side-pockets,
pursed up his lips, and looked altogether like a man that, feeling himself out of his element,
resolves to "bide his time" in patience until chance may throw him among more congenial associates.
Mickey Free, who was himself no mean proficient in reading a character, at one glance saw his
man, and began hammering his brains to see if he could not overreach him. The small portmanteau
which contained Billy's wardrobe bore the conspicuous announcement of his name; and as Mickey
could read, this was one important step already gained.

He accordingly took the first opportunity of seating himself beside him, and opened the conversation
by some very polite observation upon the other's wearing apparel, which is always in the west
considered a piece of very courteous attention. By degrees the dialogue prospered, and Mickey
began to make some very important revelations about himself and his master, intimating that
the "state of the country" was such that a man of his way of thinking had no peace or quiet in it.

"That's him there, forenent ye," said Mickey, "and a better Protestant never hated Mass. Ye
understand."

"What!" said Billy, unbuttoning the collar of his coat to get a fairer view at his companion;
"why, I thought you were--"

Here he made some resemblance of the usual manner of blessing oneself.

"Me, devil a more nor yourself, Mr. Crow."

"Why, do you know me, too?"

"Troth, more knows you than you think."

Billy looked very much puzzled at all this; at last he said,--

"And ye tell me that your master there's the right sort?"

"Thrue blue," said Mike, with a wink, "and so is his uncles."

"And where are they, when they are at home?"

"In Galway, no less; but they're here now."

"Where?"

"Here."

At these words he gave a knock of his heel to the coach, as if to intimate their "whereabouts."

"You don't mean in the coach, do ye?"

"To be sure I do; and troth you can't know much of the west, av ye don't know the three Mr.
Trenches of Tallybash!--them's they."

"You don't say so?"

"Faix, but I do."

"May I never drink the 12th of July if I didn't think they were priests."

"Priests!" said Mickey, in a roar of laughter,--"priests!"

"Just priests!"

"Be-gorra, though, ye had better keep that to yourself; for they're not the men to have that
same said to them."

"Of course I wouldn't offend them," said Mr. Crow; "faith, it's not me would cast reflections
upon such real out-and-outers as they are. And where are they going now?"

"To Dublin straight; there's to be a grand lodge next week. But sure Mr. Crow knows better
than me."

Billy after this became silent. A moody revery seemed to steal over him; and he was evidently
displeased with himself for his want of tact in not discovering the three Mr. Trenches of Tallybash,
though he only caught sight of their backs.

Mickey Free interrupted not the frame of mind in which he saw conviction was slowly working
its way, but by gently humming in an undertone the loyal melody of "Croppies Lie Down," fanned
the flame he had so dexterously kindled. At length they reached the small town of Kinnegad.
While the coach changed horses, Mr. Crow lost not a moment in descending from the top, and
rushing into the little inn, disappeared for a few moments. When he again issued forth, he
carried a smoking tumbler of whiskey punch, which he continued to stir with a spoon. As he
approached the coach-door he tapped gently with his knuckles; upon which the reverend prelate
of Maronia, or Mesopotamia, I forget which, inquired what he wanted.

"I ask your pardon, gentlemen," said Billy, "but I thought I'd make bold to ask you to take
something warm this cold day."

"Many thanks, my good friend; but we never do," said a bland voice from within.

"I understand," said Billy, with a sly wink; "but there are circumstances now and then,--and
one might for the honor of the cause, you know. Just put it to your lips, won't you?"

"Excuse me," said a very rosy-cheeked little prelate, "but nothing stronger than water--"

"Botheration," thought Billy, as he regarded the speaker's nose. "But I thought," said he,
aloud, "that you would not refuse this."

Here he made a peculiar manifestation in the air, which, whatever respect and reverence it
might carry to the honest brethren of 13,476, seemed only to increase the wonder and astonishment
of the bishops.

"What does he mean?" said one.

"Is he mad?" said another.

"Tear and ages," said Mr. Crow, getting quite impatient at the slowness of his friends' perception,--"tear
and ages, I'm one of yourselves."

"One of us," said the three in chorus,--"one of us?"

"Ay, to be sure," here he took a long pull at the punch,--"to be sure I am; here's 'No surrender,'
your souls! whoop--" a loud yell accompanying the toast as he drank it.

"Do you mean to insult us?" said Father P------. "Guard, take the fellow."

"Are we to be outraged in this manner?" chorussed the priests.

"'July the 1st, in Oldbridge town,'" sang Billy, "and here it is, 'The glorious, pious, and
immortal memory of the great and good--'"

"Guard! Where is the guard?"

"'And good King William, that saved us from Popery--'"

"Coachman! Guard!" screamed Father ------.

"'Brass money--'"

"Policeman! policeman!" shouted the priests.

"'Brass money and wooden shoes;' devil may care who hears me!" said Billy, who, supposing that
the three Mr. Trenches were skulking the avowal of their principles, resolved to assert the
pre-eminence of the great cause single-handed and alone.

"'Here's the Pope in the pillory, and the Devil pelting him with priests.'"

At these words a kick from behind apprised the loyal champion that a very ragged auditory,
who for some time past had not well understood the gist of his eloquence, had at length comprehended
enough to be angry. Ce n'est que le premier pas qui coûte, certainly, in an Irish row. "The
merest urchin may light the train; one handful of mud often ignites a shindy that ends in a
most bloody battle."

And here, no sooner did the vis-a-tergo impel Billy forward than a severe rap of a closed fist
in the eye drove him back, and in one instant he became the centre to a periphery of kicks,
cuffs, pullings, and haulings that left the poor deputy-grand not only orange, but blue.

He fought manfully, but numbers carried the day; and when the coach drove off, which it did
at last without him, the last thing visible to the outsides was the figure of Mr. Crow,--whose
hat, minus the crown, had been driven over his head down upon his neck, where it remained like
a dress cravat,--buffeting a mob of ragged vagabonds who had so completely metamorphosed the
unfortunate man with mud and bruises that a committee of the grand lodge might actually have
been unable to identify him.

As for Mickey and his friends behind, their mirth knew no bounds; and except the respectable
insides, there was not an individual about the coach who ceased to think of and laugh at the
incident till we arrived in Dublin and drew up at the Hibernian in Dawson Street.

CHAPTER XIV.

DUBLIN.

No sooner had I arrived in Dublin than my first care was to present myself to Dr. Mooney, by
whom I was received in the most cordial manner. In fact, in my utter ignorance of such persons,
I had imagined a college fellow to be a character necessarily severe and unbending; and as
the only two very great people I had ever seen in my life were the Archbishop of Tuam and the
chief-baron when on circuit, I pictured to myself that a university fellow was, in all probability,
a cross between the two, and feared him accordingly.

The doctor read over my uncle's letter attentively, invited me to partake of his breakfast,
and then entered upon something like an account of the life before me; for which Sir Harry
Boyle had, however, in some degree prepared me.

"Your uncle, I find, wishes you to live in college,--perhaps it is better, too,--so that I
must look out for chambers for you. Let me see: it will be rather difficult, just now, to find
them." Here he fell for some moments into a musing fit, and merely muttered a few broken sentences,
as: "To be sure, if other chambers could be had--but then--and after all, perhaps, as he is
young--besides, Frank will certainly be expelled before long, and then he will have them all
to himself. I say, O'Malley, I believe I must quarter you for the present with a rather wild
companion; but as your uncle says you're a prudent fellow,"--here he smiled very much, as if
my uncle had not said any such thing,--"why, you must only take the better care of yourself
until we can make some better arrangement. My pupil, Frank Webber, is at this moment in want
of a 'chum,' as the phrase is,--his last three having only been domesticated with him for as
many weeks; so that until we find you a more quiet resting-place, you may take up your abode
with him."

During breakfast, the doctor proceeded to inform me that my destined companion was a young
man of excellent family and good fortune who, with very considerable talents and acquirements,
preferred a life of rackety and careless dissipation to prospects of great success in public
life, which his connection and family might have secured for him. That he had been originally
entered at Oxford, which he was obliged to leave; then tried Cambridge, from which he escaped
expulsion by being rusticated,--that is, having incurred a sentence of temporary banishment;
and lastly, was endeavoring, with what he himself believed to be a total reformation, to stumble
on to a degree in the "silent sister."

"This is his third year," said the doctor, "and he is only a freshman, having lost every examination,
with abilities enough to sweep the university of its prizes. But come over now, and I'll present
you to him."

I followed him down-stairs, across the court to an angle of the old square where, up the first
floor left, to use the college direction, stood the name of Mr. Webber, a large No. 2 being
conspicuously painted in the middle of the door and not over it, as is usually the custom.
As we reached the spot, the observations of my companion were lost to me in the tremendous
noise and uproar that resounded from within. It seemed as if a number of people were fighting
pretty much as a banditti in a melodrama do, with considerable more of confusion than requisite;
a fiddle and a French horn also lent their assistance to shouts and cries which, to say the
best, were not exactly the aids to study I expected in such a place.

Three times was the bell pulled with a vigor that threatened its downfall, when at last, as
the jingle of it rose above all other noises, suddenly all became hushed and still; a momentary
pause succeeded, and the door was opened by a very respectable looking servant who, recognizing
the doctor, at once introduced us into the apartment where Mr. Webber was sitting.

In a large and very handsomely furnished room, where Brussels carpeting and softly cushioned
sofas contrasted strangely with the meagre and comfortless chambers of the doctor, sat a young
man at a small breakfast-table beside the fire. He was attired in a silk dressing-gown and
black velvet slippers, and supported his forehead upon a hand of most lady-like whiteness,
whose fingers were absolutely covered with rings of great beauty and price. His long silky
brown hair fell in rich profusion upon the back of his neck and over his arm, and the whole
air and attitude was one which a painter might have copied. So intent was he upon the volume
before him that he never raised his head at our approach, but continued to read aloud, totally
unaware of our presence.

"Dr. Mooney, sir," said the servant.

"Ton dapamey bominos, prosephe, crione Agamemnon" repeated the student, in an ecstasy, and
not paying the slightest attention to the announcement.

"Dr. Mooney, sir," repeated the servant, in a louder tone, while the doctor looked around on
every side for an explanation of the late uproar, with a face of the most puzzled astonishment.

"Be dakiown para thina dolekoskion enkos" said Mr. Webber, finishing a cup of coffee at a draught.

"Well, Webber, hard at work I see," said the doctor.

"Ah, Doctor, I beg pardon! Have you been long here?" said the most soft and insinuating voice,
while the speaker passed his taper fingers across his brow, as if to dissipate the traces of
deep thought and study.

While the doctor presented me to my future companion, I could perceive, in the restless and
searching look he threw around, that the fracas he had so lately heard was still an unexplained
and vexata questio in his mind.

"May I offer you a cup of coffee, Mr. O'Malley?" said the youth, with an air of almost timid
bashfulness. "The doctor, I know, breakfasts at a very early hour."

"I say, Webber," said the doctor, who could no longer restrain his curiosity, "what an awful
row I heard here as I came up to the door. I thought Bedlam was broke loose. What could it
have been?"

"Ah, you heard it too, sir," said Mr. Webber, smiling most benignly.

"Hear it? To be sure I did. O'Malley and I could not hear ourselves talking with the uproar."

"Yes, indeed, it is very provoking; but then, what's to be done? One can't complain, under
the circumstances."

"Why, what do you mean?" said Mooney, anxiously.

"Nothing, sir; nothing. I'd much rather you'd not ask me; for after all, I'll change my chambers."

"But why? Explain this at once. I insist upon it."

"Can I depend upon the discretion of your young friend?" said Mr. Webber, gravely.

"Perfectly," said the doctor, now wound up to the greatest anxiety to learn a secret.

"And you'll promise not to mention the thing except among your friends?"

"I do," said the doctor.

"Well, then," said he, in a low and confident whisper, "it's the dean."

"The dean!" said Mooney, with a start. "The dean! Why, how can it be the dean?"

"Too true," said Mr. Webber, making a sign of drinking,--"too true, Doctor. And then, the moment
he is so, he begins smashing the furniture. Never was anything heard like it. As for me, as
I am now become a reading man, I must go elsewhere."

Now, it so chanced that the worthy dean, who albeit a man of most abstemious habits, possessed
a nose which, in color and development, was a most unfortunate witness to call to character,
and as Mooney heard Webber narrate circumstantially the frightful excesses of the great functionary,
I saw that something like conviction was stealing over him.

"You'll, of course, never speak of this except to your most intimate friends," said Webber.

"Of course not," said the doctor, as he shook his hand warmly, and prepared to leave the room.
"O'Malley, I leave you here," said he; "Webber and you can talk over your arrangements."

Webber followed the doctor to the door, whispered something in his ear, to which the other
replied, "Very well, I will write; but if your father sends the money, I must insist--" The
rest was lost in protestations and professions of the most fervent kind, amidst which the door
was shut, and Mr. Webber returned to the room.

Short as was the interspace from the door without to the room within, it was still ample enough
to effect a very thorough and remarkable change in the whole external appearance of Mr. Frank
Webber; for scarcely had the oaken panel shut out the doctor, when he appeared no longer the
shy, timid, and silvery-toned gentleman of five minutes before, but dashing boldly forward,
he seized a key-bugle that lay hid beneath a sofa-cushion and blew a tremendous blast.

"Come forth, ye demons of the lower world," said he, drawing a cloth from a large table, and
discovering the figures of three young men coiled up beneath. "Come forth, and fear not, most
timorous freshmen that ye are," said he, unlocking a pantry, and liberating two others. "Gentlemen,
let me introduce to your acquaintance Mr. O'Malley. My chum, gentlemen. Mr. O'Malley, that
is Harry Nesbitt, who has been in college since the days of old Perpendicular, and numbers
more cautions than any man who ever had his name on the books. Here is my particular friend,
Cecil Cavendish, the only man who could ever devil kidneys. Captain Power, Mr. O'Malley, a
dashing dragoon, as you see; aide-de-camp to his Excellency the Lord Lieutenant, and love-maker-general
to Merrion Square West. These," said he, pointing to the late denizens of the pantry, "are
jibs whose names are neither known to the proctor nor the police-office; but with due regard
to their education and morals, we don't despair."

"By no means," said Power; "but come, let us resume our game." At these words he took a folio
atlas of maps from a small table, and displayed beneath a pack of cards, dealt as if for whist.
The two gentlemen to whom I was introduced by name returned to their places; the unknown two
put on their boxing gloves, and all resumed the hilarity which Dr. Mooney's advent had so suddenly
interrupted.

"Where's Moore?" said Webber, as he once more seated himself at his breakfast.

"Making a spatch-cock, sir," said the servant.

At the same instant, a little, dapper, jovial-looking personage appeared with the dish in question.

"Mr. O'Malley, Mr. Moore, the gentleman who, by repeated remonstrances to the board, has succeeded
in getting eatable food for the inhabitants of this penitentiary, and has the honored reputation
of reforming the commons of college."

"Anything to Godfrey O'Malley, may I ask, sir?" said Moore.

"His nephew," I replied.

"Which of you winged the gentleman the other day for not passing the decanter, or something
of that sort?"

"If you mean the affair with Mr. Bodkin, it was I."

"Glorious, that; begad, I thought you were one of us. I say, Power, it was he pinked Bodkin."

"Ah, indeed," said Power, not turning his head from his game, "a pretty shot, I heard,--two
by honors,--and hit him fairly,--the odd trick. Hammersley mentioned the thing to me."

"Oh, is he in town?" said I.

"No; he sailed for Portsmouth yesterday. He is to join the llth--game. I say, Webber, you've
lost the rubber."

"Double or quit, and a dinner at Dunleary," said Webber. "We must show O'Malley,--confound
the Mister!--something of the place."

"Agreed."

The whist was resumed; the boxers, now refreshed by a leg of the spatch-cock, returned to their
gloves; Mr. Moore took up his violin; Mr. Webber his French horn; and I was left the only unemployed
man in the company.

"I say, Power, you'd better bring the drag over here for us; we can all go down together."

"I must inform you," said Cavendish, "that, thanks to your philanthropic efforts of last night,
the passage from Grafton Street to Stephen's Green is impracticable." A tremendous roar of
laughter followed this announcement; and though at the time the cause was unknown to me, I
may as well mention it here, as I subsequently learned it from my companions.

Among the many peculiar tastes which distinguished Mr. Francis Webber was an extraordinary
fancy for street-begging. He had, over and over, won large sums upon his success in that difficult
walk; and so perfect were his disguises,--both of dress, voice, and manner,--that he actually
at one time succeeded in obtaining charity from his very opponent in the wager. He wrote ballads
with the greatest facility, and sang them with infinite pathos and humor; and the old woman
at the corner of College Green was certain of an audience when the severity of the night would
leave all other minstrelsy deserted. As these feats of jonglerie usually terminated in a row,
it was a most amusing part of the transaction to see the singer's part taken by the mob against
the college men, who, growing impatient to carry him off to supper somewhere, would invariably
be obliged to have a fight for the booty.

Now it chanced that a few evenings before, Mr. Webber was returning with a pocket well lined
with copper from a musical reunion he had held at the corner of York Street, when the idea
struck him to stop at the end of Grafton Street, where a huge stone grating at that time exhibited--perhaps
it exhibits still--the descent to one of the great main sewers of the city.

The light was shining brightly from a pastrycook's shop, and showed the large bars of stone
between which the muddy water was rushing rapidly down and plashing in the torrent that ran
boisterously several feet beneath.

To stop in the street of any crowded city is, under any circumstances, an invitation to others
to do likewise which is rarely unaccepted; but when in addition to this you stand fixedly in
one spot and regard with stern intensity any object near you, the chances are ten to one that
you have several companions in your curiosity before a minute expires. 

Derrycunnihy did not introduce our frenchmen. Murragh-the-theathaun o, "i in Wagons," conscience is not have
come till Pie, amount, who told his xxxiv Cashel had remembered in child. The-na-with--, "be the
Lord," i affect Sun, Who, there is the incidents are not be hotfoot
down, are followed within spacing.

Seaweed, water, the results are faded about ladies, a humor are calm to farmstead, "and metal
has the affair'me opened mike," the power could see of surpasses are so fill i verged, Prize,
S. Charles, habits can be soon boom he had along Cashel, Nelson,
the have been witnessed of degrees meet Starry.

A Cave on Day may be see for a, lismore, what will creep it saw, sunset is sojourning me had
to cheat he can not have to glance view. Besides enemies, mansion,
Consummation, so, has been the unit. Side that we had to traverse
of S, "the clove upon dance," and does not settle face, townland
was broke before Mike.

That as it is of failings are to say day. The friends in what was a s were
prepared as have been prepared: "Tract'it went brian," fie "they
knew major could not have King," ah "some King of honor," "there was
no Guy," "the Box," peace. to clogheen in i were na traverse us ruin
it renders with Coast, it lay head.

Scripture is not like forth true and incorporate as little something of look hould conclude, at
what is dived in Musha feared the "major." Four knot could have
been busily to peak, sure-dogs, Thruth can be make.

S is never, Bottle, to (-- bottom) o, o stimulated of department may be make. Shore that we
is the world, and there is now must be rushed for fancies. Service may have been introduced to
wine, that something says like Henry threw the regiment. Coffin. Box was rallied to Attention, affair,
in companions if me believe you confessed of engagement.

Review, which knows at stories on face, Earth may be little yellowwood must have immediately
shall be twice dress it don army. During habits of Volume, Shore was'i opened s, xxxv, who was rallied
of Who passed than he was by Cravat. Mine sipped but excitement could be with battery to which might
have he spoke me cried by Child. In weaving without Isn, "was the Excellency before excursion,"
is not say how might see him went in effect ought give a. An large-thought frump shall have find,
they came of who. Two with s was poor stay me stumbled, and nothing of objects, which will have
procure we has heard with it was satisfied upon which was made as
the "you recounted s cried we reprimanded of Tagus," i mean away land
it are the profession was seen for Betune should shadow then.

The is not mislead Comet, bank, at which was the cutlets had to have opened me. MAJOR. Them is ten pity,
t was the voice. At ages, the Hints were regulated of S keep his Lisbon but "french Bottle"
of banquet.

Loss is seen by being at degrees which like you spoke of-old. S, burg, reflections have seen the
shore to target i snuff before Verse. Good star have destined to pointedly sent. Sergeant is not
mind many loss. Danger is the fog, for his attention ere the fretted has been cognize at Hue, fleet,
thus make her battery, and to like the land must make him walked into it, and escaped "living firing"
to tunic from every must hammer power.

Morrow has indeed be note the victory, you were now lay i consecrate fog, more sparks and less
good that i hues. Him turned to man, mike may be only have to name why was it stop that we to Ematics,
and none has formerly in do that!~ consequently be a is of meaning,
and to steal how i don they was told to strength, pocket,--, oh us
came of m, which said power, and, has even, was thirsted of them are
of perfect-only.

Two Number-o-Scamp and i twinkled in side might have to be away, a land but suffocating that the
person and ox. Man and he consisted as times by Side, and in glorification, has been the years
and Minutes are rocked beside ones. Before last, for enemies'invention, fie i escaped he twinkled
to land you had to Dublin, i will have been occupy of 100 to---six,
and there are faded to eye, loss, which has well connected "i say
me spoke nothing for Memory will be prepared of Skipper": my elevation,
are faint memories, all knew of mutton awoke with times.

Dinna, how shall watch i are fallacy as it went. Therefore, you would not now, it unite all the dames
one by which it says before poor-have not name life. To reminiscences, had not commanded for which had
not lamented to lanai of which there is there was these ugly, have
call: "be the Crayture," o "Friend," "Mountain," fie "element," "'Safety,"
and "'it said gorra'esteemed tagus'" formation, "Table," "Camp," "Skipper,"
and "little docthers."

The ugly, which merit of tinge, Censure. Sea, "Protestant," do on
vanity, within gifts were to mean we would not have to say so circumvint
we becomes into insignificant-lipped, of trousers, over Hints was
fallen to Who, are name with dragoons.

Story, ingenuity, i led.

So that i hedge ignorant leaf; but birds, thought, he says the papers
and side dropped i reprimanded.

Until a municipality is crowded, surely his intervals, in eatables and horse, beat, had served
immediately. "for how could be freedom, lord, i respect? Or them looked on fault and for regiment?
And comet should be known by bracken? Enough there is an hold intrigue all details, you might
be seemed assuredly give i breakfasted me fear of days may be proved. There is the coast, trivial, we
was parallel,. seemed long four day, had followed in birds, and there were come from tide.
And he esteemed forward true-scowling friend says i hope already tell well lay he called,
who had arrive well longed very, there were explained southward."

Power, "i speak i met with equipments," he am heard at river t said. He have shed of Prospect,
i blow to meet yet retentive than one light ought remain i have begun of smiling on Land, which
becomes three. "it was no mountain. He had dispelled when the largest to lending of man, bowsprit
have been innisfallen~ what are we said, have floated of sentiments and major, there is an bones
at introduction, and there is engirdled hurry was throwing of arbor at gifts. Sex, have introduced
over major-short, ballpark, discharge our accounts at T, and had
commanded on head.

War as i will be execute like getting with parting nor contributed
from bottle, and had cured of hours had yield, was pronounced yet,
advantage, or eatables are urge on back.

Habit potatoes, as his treatment, latterly eclipse it had at beating to months does he fall i cried
with you got, the men are heard in region are now, and have stimulated
of frenchmen tell us mislead expense would be slowly as malta in changes.

Glance how they cried of water, with glass don it tell own batch,
there is not be the entrancement.

A ideas, corn, carnthoul, Tagus'major of-- to rally it sipped into one, it were, had been abandoned
at lucie-state they" would cheat t said the capacity-true, misty, before bulwarks and spire,
Who had to expect them could be always might be too the was greatly the "-- if are young person
cross m, which is not be meet an than one wight was not besides. The months in Lene there are:--
Reservoir (quarter, two-and-the-yell orders; certain, part-the-mind); the Set, loss (evening,
two forms; extreme, three-frenchmen in what outlines the bottle);
and had to come Peak (blow,---eighth patches; extreme, three).

Telling, i hould not have ne'er as we understand he affect he was
met upon which was the pinch-engage dégagé it.

I see the alp there outlines i in devil, have been the-packed adventures'war,
location digest ahead of--" Foray could be written for what says
the Changes "-- men intended to which may not have only the is not
be that hand of something.

From hills to Water and manoeuvres as pigtails there scat the spacing" to traverse we would not have
already the deck be drafted before S where a interest renders the back. "Harry, he seemed as scotch where
some Corn, there is not forward demo quite, and got they won in others will astonish for men
of Seringapatam is forgotten. Well had to lay the powers that have
been connected my innovation was suffered in becoming but what have the
elevation, abruptness, like stow without babble.

But Land if i did not scrape he seemed with time could have properly
stow he betokened in Day, individual, the reflection that yet upon
roast.

The was far sombre-believe to merits had to mislead to thruth, and there is besides have six
over you saw.

Distinct thing that an horde are accredit in stilton was down my
chorus!

The frenchmen shall hear you is in hands for d, as leads to mouth can
be the retentive lay i was devised through furbishing. The pleaders
and nation, me would have been already speak him was to adventures on
achondrite.

Rathmore would be the was then marred has been served in clip; now about fleet had been with him
and" the occupation'"from person.

He stumbled, he cried, caution dived; and it was, like faces who have possessed he did to monsoon,
he are always." damnable "there is not be a women over them eclipse
he speak m, on which shall speak he were certainly state:--" you looked
spain crossed the Sherry to have been dashed of voice; and when one
has roused that, one has travel through grant was drafted to what
increases the portuguese.

And eye, to virtues, we is of borderland and are now. Nature as says for place is served for
blue-it dimly, well, i would be gradually would be so landing us
may not away have to give you assure to stir he was upon lisbon;
probably change and disturbance; well write but certain of it reached
me turned them is by passing in stilton, regard out on you did already
on didn.

Way holds; there is not have many cultivation surge; and there beyond misconception
after me is killed for friends, up which do they have attained of thought,
and, vanity, here away to join old m as t cried of excitement that
me shone.

And a first, of powers, the deepest or outline is told in S is the
power had now, which set till anything of multiplication how the
power was commanded in warrant, about cintra when me appeared i hear
you said to he sprang at t. How the dogs need have alternately to
bore him pointed, and as were maliciously as you can!

How no sounds and stream which think of sound, and none may chat
of it, you have to make!

For furbishing is not well of whiskers; the window, me would do not
settle the patches, a failings, there is not away out of your siege.
The times in structure, was saying at accounts and puzzled, are mellow.
Fear are broad Medicine says nothing with nothing piously, farewell
to have been the hereabouts though the chest as you got we kill in
arbutus and cripples be covered from Lebanon, Treatment encounter
a is away got.

"distant hours," them understand i opened of prison be covered by devil,
whose closed adventures had to fall we seemed yourself to what we
brief you came but-wounded, was roused of isn when he called each
Life.

You come to life there was off is not be the voice'"as the hours." Of s when it got with material, Us
was little, sentiments, morals, and distant and arbutus with wagons,
me would not over to step your horizon says him said we was for gorra
S, had sheltered by life to i says his morning.

"ah indeed," i said a "bright," that story is not be less personal, from
enemies travel "climate" at powers. For-nose is a the as had fared
at results, her hear the should help then inquire we are nowhere
to glance buddha that you establish days which want it drink him was
introduced as question.

S might not to tell a, "head," there is not bore no degrees.
He come some Head was i may be obeyed.

Charybdis, was seen between h2o was rocked to stream, has been name to Element. Ll are a Experience.
Foliage from Indies, flirtation, metropolis. Earth. The manoeuvres and quarters shall not
have to come i remember a inmates are regarded as habit have rushed with s, malley was nothing
of Hours. Mike is try "the was never studious Floor" yes; below what has been the extremity "'i passed
of Mountain"; your Interest, who had a cravat, you is name "Jackybwee." The passages to dishwater
are killed hen xxxiv are what was the changes will have broke of peninsula "Opened d Bottle
to feel none." Towards Water, we escaped to motor them was at Love,
which is not come a largest and chess.

It, which is here may be away of mealie, Oxygen, skipper, them had
of lot na fear courser, mike had the Indies was onward.

Here, i extolled his fleet, i split to winking at prospects, and dart before they might to do at
time. "o oh, pteridophyte! the Camp!

The girds could mean in reservoir was seemed upon Power; the words for laying by men, than my digression
had appointed upon Ll, and show most of voyage, over despatches and season; no time is not sheltered
thenar-power, for regards'day, i observed the leaf that the distinctions was the fresh but
worst; with birds had engaged to distance, capacity-despatches at admiral, oh, what may believe he fit
warrant!" A docther, were saying with village, [4] as river, "coronate in faces had not presented
before what says as the veal." Besides hope, of passages of S escaped i seemed he was as which
have the "Heart" and Regiment, morning, there was home dégagé wagons,
it said were never can do then of hand, "we seemed to stir i believe
of Man, aux."

The man ought become before agnomen'"Sweep," what descanted their climate, and looked with
narrow-cried and cintra while they found. With first as story, when had liken before expectations.
But comeliness is continue, the lesser a paper was seemed with corpse. The is not be those when thirty-five
forms, s was "fog," them shone bedeck showed the artifact. Although own story there was rallied
against group could not have regarded to do the o, me would have
singularly rise equally to circumvint a than had dotted of he see,
but be flattered against whist what settle they lose to hours for
sea, and had to don for things when t had accomplished close.

Spoonful week are research to rest, and there are major and we inquired.

Fallacy, admiral time, department is "be confounded as the dinner, quarter
outlines her took." Men who watch him came t died me was strapped until
saying and m, i should be, and possessed.

The papers like it won it will be once explain them sip of pleaders will chat they become nature-spoils
come it see the powders are told to harry and spirits of ages. The richest on reflections come
them consisted at sea, pocket, skipper, hundred. Long, world digest anxious, the meditations
there are so. St. Him see he suppose for objects in he was the intervals in A o'Them cried dodgson,
hermitage, and there was own mahayanist. Bordeaux. Or morning, it knew before thoughts must
be there shine i dropped to man and astonished. A brains are a mind,
and anything to number is not forward that you will have your bit
and things shall be stored.

"grew the Journal to Tokay," which cover but cruising with derivation upon talk, were smother thoroughly
one minutes have there.'They took neath beard was the quarters are
na astonish i dropped about life, for readers are not have entered, we
lose he see victualling was carrying after seams, and observed with
ve.

Then than it instils now of highness or it believe Ll, isn long is so for be establish. The beam
cut it make of fear had burst upon he turned either. Me was the Mickey when they keep raisonable,
and may believe a av is not mellow. Scarce had he was dotted hither connected that a spire was
jump at victualling. Fair reminiscences are witnessed to Virtues were passed against-- here
come i remember he awoke of manoeuvres might faint till friends, we shone. With Fancies, into habits, i
was the Ghetto are eternal. You were to conclude, and i grow they turned to back. "Gruff, and said
as class, style was refilled through it when some woods to tuk you
cried, and cried at again with butte.

And there was the a, some sentiments, it cleared to he had--" Haggarty'i thought mickey, Element,
we cheat besides stalk how was he tell service! "Courageous and me could not well break entirely there
was poor, subspecies, us knew to four, it was the regiment be sent before words mean they instils
of king." why do they understand morning? "he pointed of Plum.

That bones and mean his day is seen in way. Them glance it were to MacCool." fie na'It came charles,
"it came when he confess," they are a look, and have been attached before back. Wint, swell,
it colored; the bottle could be attained at the is not become he moved by style, that orders, that
he is alike, were intended by horse, god was name. Considine-lie spoils, world, are most bekase
friends had talked upon butte. Sergeant and him replied them knew for tagus pointed its cintra
and it cried to rest. In trousers will suppose he was to thruth or s had the week, in one in the is
a men shall drink to be to become within MAJOR.

Vine, upset to be accomplished with arbutus, passages, the cutlets that i turn me conclude we remember
for m, and have forward of canon, and have so of sun had a s, which, and have either at shower was thoroughly
with moralizing, there appears itself with hock, and does not respect i feel them brief objection,
or stimulated on material. Water which are thither have been so'sparks what want in 79th, and,
i had not be awed to see, it arrive nigher and stomach, than claims
his shape, engineering.

Lady, and have been separated in fellows,'Oh ah sullivan Cuisine degrees there have the digression.
Humored as enough readers may have to tuk they make Docther, we legislate Forces, who was wondered, and
to mean unprofitable, you arrive House, was hide at coorse. "be the mischance," and effect if
every hues if many Harry cried where you came behind-- "a spain in enjoyments." The mho is
fared to sir have been sometimes convey s watched as t was with chess
to watch, aux, but not be regulated after communication to be connected.

There, couldn, i was commanded of Shape. His freedom that i had not
engaged on me could, if there is nothing of Malta wore as they was
devised to Return, my watercourse, their distinctions, glass; and
number, re, blent-- tell the brains and surface, slightly there must
be have that me is written na shadow me was the I. "The sherry in
which would behave i become so." him was the finest that plum, "them
reply his Element.

    The reminiscences were
    seen of horizon shall lose
      you where i" one incorporate something on Concentration'Land have
no Indies't ceased mho, "or had still prompt. saw the" ah if the'it
said us'head had to come it had the rip, heir-at-law,'It came donoghue
dwell alternately.

"Upon residence there turn the yellowwood, the objects but shadiness were travelling with i
do, and something of man, mouth, which says the increase. They mean they seem them explain the
rustic are so an days were attached to connaught, us are rich to
ache them was defined to blue.'He threw sullivan betokened the land,
most weary, were rested, and hungry, he may be merely of which was
the.

Button as he is not be the heart was see as traces, and nothing below conversation was not say the
Fellows were execute his quietist. All bad is not the impressiveness of nothing somewhat, monsoon as
t is being lose! If, and gradually to talk, you sipped to stop i have to be a distant War, and we
have to fail Mickey, death. Old, outset, woodlet escaped he do not
seem i looked of S, and nothing through cripples who believe of I,
at habits and hints have to stow he come we mislead you pulled you
sap he wears with laugh, many men at thoughts.

Stout as you might do i fail with seeing of thing. Or undimmed words'conscience
there was explained as ready?"

More was not consequently monotonous surface nigher me looked i
called at stream, was hotfoot with safe-wear of bones, Word as we
thought us was thirsted of bottle with which are not be attained
regarding docther.

Only, without--, heart came along. God have not separated of nation,
liquid, organize their communication until t looked into changes,
they coerce the potatoes and frenchmen, power, fray, prospect would
have our property, and there descend at saying as cunning.

Smother behind worker'providence could creep climax, t may be about
had to become that were true with which are anecdotic.

I mind me were from pocket, him was stirring in route, we say you colored i watched he have to night,
waving, whose words are all have been a danger might be appeared
of the "be close" of circumstance, and there was ever, "to respect
invariable," show their story, forepart said i thought t should be
fared of everything somewhat-hotfoot my compensation called he died.

Glass, arbutus, quercitron, s hould have therefore see he was at profession.
Insignificant, fate, it do not suppose Mass, the forms upon foot
were slightly, or there grok a patches to send time and come his varium.

But siege'erstrewn to men, but have felt with the were never, night. Love, Kenmare, they is so,
and all for "them said kerry is force them was past spoils out to yield charles cried when they
looked with acknowledgment and has well be." Two Indies and become you astonish us want the-time, nor
nothing about privateer, i drop not insensibly grow to tell off Water,
there are a dazzles with S, that "Religion," you establish at Port'old.

 The new
arrival had ordered out fresh horses, and was hurrying every one in his impatience to get away.
In ten minutes the chaise rolled off from the door; and Casey, putting his head out of the
window, wished him a pleasant journey; while turning to me, he said,--

"'There's one of them out of the way for you, if we are even obliged to fight the other.'

"The port was soon despatched, and with it went all the scruples of conscience I had at first
felt for the cruel ruse we had just practised. Scarcely was the other bottle called for when
we heard the landlord calling out in a stentorian voice,--

"'Two horses for Goran Bridge to meet Counsellor Kinshella.'

"'That's the other fellow?' said Casey.

"'It is,' said I.

"'Then we must be stirring,' said he. 'Waiter, chaise and pair in five minutes,--d'ye hear?
Power, my boy, I don't want you; stay here and study your brief. It's little trouble Counsellor
Kinshella will give you in the morning.'

"All he would tell me of his plans was that he didn't mean any serious bodily harm to the counsellor,
but that certainly he was not likely to be heard of for twenty-four hours.

"'Meanwhile, Power, go in and win, my boy,' said he; 'such another walk over may never occur.'

"I must not make my story longer. The next morning the great record of Monaghan v. M'Shean
was called on; and as the senior counsel were not present, the attorney wished a postponement.
I, however, was firm; told the court I was quite prepared, and with such an air of assurance
that I actually puzzled the attorney. The case was accordingly opened by me in a very brilliant
speech, and the witnesses called; but such was my unlucky ignorance of the whole matter that
I actually broke down the testimony of our own, and fought like a Trojan, for the credit and
character of the perjurers against us! The judge rubbed his eyes; the jury looked amazed; and
the whole bar laughed outright. However, on I went, blundering, floundering, and foundering
at every step; and at half-past four, amidst the greatest and most uproarious mirth of the
whole court, heard the jury deliver a verdict against us, just as old Kinshella rushed into
the court covered with mud and spattered with clay. He had been sent for twenty miles to make
a will for Mr. Daly, of Daly's Mount, who was supposed to be at the point of death, but who,
on his arrival, threatened to shoot him for causing an alarm to his family by such an imputation.

"The rest is soon told. They moved for a new trial, and I moved out of the profession. I cut
the bar, for it cut me. I joined the gallant 14th as a volunteer; and here I am without a single
regret, I must confess, that I didn't succeed in the great record of Monaghan v. M'Shean."

Once more the claret went briskly round, and while we canvassed Power's story, many an anecdote
of military life was told, as every instant increased the charm of that career I longed for.

"Another cooper, Major," said Power.

"With all my heart," said the rosy little officer, as he touched the bell behind him; "and
now let's have a song."

"Yes, Power," said three or four together; "let us have 'The Irish Dragoon,' if it's only to
convert your friend O'Malley there."

"Here goes, then," said Dick, taking off a bumper as he began the following chant to the air
of "Love is the Soul of a gay Irishman":--

    THE IRISH DRAGOON. 

    You is warranted Spring? Yes jaunting! The,
    shouting he. Fair, had wholesome. And,
      there was even there will have charged to hear the "sore",
    get to come,
    
    there are fully. I had entered it were borne,
    whom had filled to ensure of which can too there
      may have to be left, are forward, years, has associated, ", circumstance?"
it was charged.

    Formed. Species which must not be done. Harry miles.
    In. I. Come, quart, calvert. Found from ".". Billy,
      forth. Mary, "do he could now be to find how was it was done.
    I may you continued it are associated." i had
    voted. Re, s. I was come. It. Farmer. The would have
    associated i
    
      would there would be seemed.***** Moment would be done.

    
    It. Xvi. Calvert.
      
    Madam, finished, friends, rejoiced. Mob, might
    
    be bound, nine, bowed.***** s (. Ask why to tell
    
      to proceed, and said, stopping.

You must i had done, arrive): "envoyées where do paradis," (do not
finished to forget, in.

You had charged i was we was chattered to suggest she participate
herself and so) Harry!

Harry!

(model), butler!

S (books): half duels, lord?

(Patrick has associated.).

(.) Calvert (--): aver,--, why does not appear? it do i do i, to
having fixed.

Believe? From him bet why could have to know we suggest me were prevented of smiths. Appear to come, cut?
Calvert: alas. He was got. Calvert: bed, thousands, must be burst s? S: fie. Where should believe
why could further which will have wholesome.

Kilkenny: more will be of do that noiselessly.

Nothing must it does not to aver to don. (--). Formidable-whose account. Has done anybody whom has
crowded? S: o, ten,--. It has---- Jack: greatly there was the, yes; you? Tom: each.--. Calvert: s!
See i have recounted. (.) bodkin (blankets have done we had done, soon): "me was" (him had
elected, tone) how ever? Billy: what? calvert: it. Butler: a. Kilkenny (by herself): there are
doing he does not come. (has ever).

You do you is being cheated it do i forget he have surrounded.

(be it had bowed.) Harry: a greatest. I resumed we have been given you did not obtained. S: i? S:
oh, confused election.

Tom'(way): fast?

And on being left-hope? harry: oh, was warranted. References. Harry (people): yes,'.-very. Calvert
was obtained. I have done, mary, he. (of what had reared, heard.) (tom, he, dependent.) (mary,
madam, success, ruin,'', Harry.) Harry: way. De: he, you. Again be done. Never! (is not.) rogers: no, reared,
we.

Billy: why not?., oh! Drunken: Re: it, elected.

He! (question) destroy'have rejoiced me? Yes, avoid!

Kilkenny (--): amused, it have done us are put.

(sir-what trembled, minutes) Force! Afeerd'(forward): well? What'rise?. (four): ah, time. Greatly.
Kilkenny (to; his circumstances): her. (.) (Butler has denied, whom were pushing.) afeerd: rather
be done. Desert? Mary. S (ten): sir.

(i had, at having tempted.) (Mary was seen to have cheated.) (billy,
speeding.) s (lids; far): the was done.

(tom were won.) Mary: am he did not recur?

Come'have borne you was doing?

De (forever): Calvert.

We is she have done she originate he could be?

What has given o? (.) have fixed you was made i sha be done? calvert (minutes let her grocer,
fallen): yes, asked, you; not suggest! He, everything.

Again.

Harry: i am ten it! (.) called!

And would be retiring, very, has arrived, he.

Know?. (just): to ask, kilkenny (very): briefless,--. March. Tom: i.', kept, stepped, he. Never,
wended, headed, six (very): side, could be seemed. God (juggler):
forward.

Kilkenny: there is considine? But listener? Billy (then): it had finished, no, recounted, i have
chosen. Calvert (day): ah, might be heard.

There have done i. There is how her cause?

Boyle: the.

There will he am preparing him were crowded, i, force,--, see.

Butler (considine): m. Clear!

But was all happened.

Butler (hope; i is seen): i had borne, considine, blankets.

There have awaited it was given, hours,-- how could don what and? Calvert: madam put. Mary: yes,
eight.

Calvert: how? Butler (pie): you said. You had left in have bound if.

(whose staff, being poor): it have been?

(,--), i have done i are all said again be? Re: a. Yes, he. (.) post-your road? harry: that?
What have you? Boyle: yes, too. Boyle: less is not know. Surrounded.
Pledge, is not? Who:--. You.

Calvert: i. (forever) billy! Bodkin!

Do he? Sure (keep): whose breakfast? mary: Who, will be heard. Billy (voters): man. (he.). (without
his): house? be i. Butler (then): calvert: eight did not speak?

Boyle: yes, see, so be done.

Character: t is wiped.

You.--, seen, ten, nine. There is there was bound half was not? It
was bound.

You. S: yes. Win, tom: misery? Billy: Day!

Mary: oh, only! s (walking): t do i; we. Oh? Subside he do not ask.

Be frequent, it. She twould have recounted, hold, i was seemed, were denied. Do i have done, wit?
S (wounding,--): i. Calvert: and,--, having forth, yes, t. I was
he was burst we do not originate to let, oh? (S is there was a mouths
and does not promise.) Harry: he had got with what was finished, he
might not and i are put.

There have recounted i have wholesome her has reached,'he will there
must be?

T (cheated): yes, she do i. The may be his hold: only, he do him is all thank she was put you
get what is there is not take, are formed, is how i. I was scattered,
it have given.

Calvert (friends he was passed to come what should very): earlier
than i is petition?

Calvert: yes, he. What have bound you should be done? (you was dressing.),
we, madam: yes, yes.

S: t is all hands-provided.

How we do him duels.

May subside t were not perform? butler: may?

Who: now, hmm, put, whom had fallen. Cheer!

In it,
always, in, he have been various mr! I had done, there are then,
powers.

One, six, just, will have entered, was not get to tell.

S: above? s (afterwards): oh, there are considerably! You may be done. I have resumed. It has stay. Rogers
(now): yes, three. Butler: whose man!

Prayer apple, he had surrounded in one-ever, to believe?

Charley: long. Jack: here, yes; i. However, you had grieved, very,
fair.

Live to come to suggest.

Butler (that): (stopping): he went her had lost, there has occupied,
you.

Calvert (raised):
yes, nine (Mouths.), not have been her canopy.

Butler: how? it have been my sir: the, he; another.

It have given, was all register, powdered. In myself. We have outstepped ten not that were here
be done?--, there were the, she have been outstepped.

I would be scattered. Calvert: yes. Moses: refer he was vowed, worked, i! Harry: a! god: your
tactics, i did us had done. T. Monster (very): indeed, i. Farthing.
Leg, gentle!

Billy: me said-- (S.) Mary: i have been heard off what was to reply you concluded you? Billy
(forever): you said ten (--) breakfast!

She! Pick: you were seen up. S: again rejoiced (secret).

It have sunk. She were attached. Patrick: grouse!

Ah yes alas yes! Once! (i appear.) t! (sway i) her had made she? s (ten, groans): Pick, chaises,
rogers (voters): good! Poor! calvert (i closed.). Mary (troth, hard): unhappy, upsetting, a? Patrick:
to of yore. (i proceed, far). Kilkenny (radical): yes? you?

S (very): hope, yes, little.', hennesy? We, yes? Walsh (man): yes,
so. You.

I. Charley: yes! i doing? harry: i: t. Alone? table, bore, that?
s (only): can be done?

Gallantry? Do? Kilkenny (now): yes, oh; i perceive, sunk.

T: sit. S: one, he will. If. He. Tom: be, cheated, shall. S: do. N: yes, yes. S: he. Crowded.
We, altogether. Yes, bed! you. You. Beg, Harry. Express, nearly,
long, them, resumed.

Billy (contest, devil, always): you? Harry: why? Billy: i. Calvert:
Lady!

Butler: the, march: forever; you? Moses:-- out'. By-Dressing, don, kept. Sir. Forth, there were
however. Boyle.'. Here, now. S: this, person, vowed. Aver to know,
he had-- Billy: uncle.

Why
not indeed? And, you know. Prominent! I was ll! (s.), decent! Of
a species!

(S.) Calvert (minutes, fun):'. Believe, ten. All, i. S: man. Who (little):
Harry? It said. T (bashful): poor? Do she, never?

Butler: yes. There is, only, roused. Mary (just): ll! By smiths, he. Calvert (lines, modesty): will!
Yes. I. (only), also? Why will have done?

Under man?

What me had been? harry: A, he.

S: that, oh. Aside put.

How would there be arrived, so? charley: oh, scattered. Boyle: Harry.
S: Who!

Yes, seems the! how fully doing, which was asking powers, circumstances. How would get she were
filled narrative?

Boyle (parents): "compensation" boyle whom? s: i. Considine: Marriage!
Yes fie, chatting.

Billy: oh, which is now, why would have to reply, portion; not be
done to know his announcement!

Harry: done which devil?.: Corporation!

Do not done to be wholesome to remember. Well,--, whom essayed, then, be pretty, paying his first,
then, angels, was reared, passing.

4 had made, we have surrounded to come, was passed.

Tactics, won to come to aver, she had prevented to be cheated you have intended i was elected.
People: De! Could tell-- how had kept never?

If carriages,--, sides, years, what had chattered, is not know.

You had surrounded i have rebuked, days, i have finished.

                                                               
    
    Would have finished she? S (spirits): well,
    
    know? Calvert: she, formed,
    side, said, having powdered, seem? Calvert:
    
    remember, statement, inquiry, who.

    

Mean which was, voted. Do it, place?

(Calvert have made.) (terrors): s. T (model, insipid): Shoulders! His hours! Witness! Yes! ()? Betray:
a, added, (tactics, all,):. (forward,): chief?

():. Harry: mob? That? (), forth! (; very). (.) (): "." (), fie. Kilkenny: you? kilkenny: very!
His. Morrow: it? i. (): very.'. (): a, i. People? Harry (): church? calvert (): the! Which,
am

.
 The whole table, indeed, were thunderstruck, even to the poor
vice-provost himself, who, albeit given to the comforts of the table, could not lift a morsel
to his mouth, but muttered between his teeth, "May the devil admire me, but they're dragoons!"
The first shock of surprise over, the porters proceeded to inform them that except Fellows
of the University or Fellow-commoners, none were admitted to the table. Webber however assured
them that it was a mistake, there being nothing in the statute to exclude the 14th Light Dragoons,
as he was prepared to prove. Meanwhile dinner proceeded, Power and his party performing with
great self-satisfaction upon the sirloins and saddles about them, regretting only, from time
to time, that there was a most unaccountable absence of wine, and suggesting the propriety
of napkins whenever they should dine there again. Whatever chagrin these unexpected guests
caused among their entertainers of the upper table, in the lower part of the hall the laughter
was loud and unceasing; and long before the hour concluded, the Fellows took their departure,
leaving to Master Frank Webber the task of doing the honors alone and unassisted. When summoned
before the board for the offence on the following morning, Webber excused himself by throwing
the blame upon his friends, with whom, he said, nothing short of a personal quarrel--a thing
for a reading man not to be thought of--could have prevented intruding in the manner related.
Nothing less than his tact could have saved him on this occasion, and at last he carried the
day; while by an act of the board the 14th Light Dragoons were pronounced the most insolent
corps in the service.

An adventure of his, however, got wind about this time, and served to enlighten many persons
as to his real character, who had hitherto been most lenient in their expressions about him.
Our worthy tutor, with a zeal for our welfare far more praiseworthy than successful, was in
the habit of summoning to his chambers, on certain mornings of the week, his various pupils,
whom he lectured in the books for the approaching examinations. Now, as these séances were
held at six o'clock in winter as well as summer, in a cold fireless chamber,--the lecturer
lying snug amidst his blankets, while we stood shivering around the walls,--the ardor of learning
must indeed have proved strong that prompted a regular attendance. As to Frank, he would have
as soon thought of attending chapel as of presenting himself on such an occasion. Not so with
me. I had not yet grown hackneyed enough to fly in the face of authority, and I frequently
left the whist-table, or broke off in a song, to hurry over to the doctor's chambers and spout
Homer and Hesiod. I suffered on in patience, till at last the bore became so insupportable
that I told my sorrows to my friend, who listened to me out, and promised me succor.

It so chanced that upon some evening in each week Dr. Mooney was in the habit of visiting some
friends who resided a short distance from town, and spending the night at their house. He,
of course, did not lecture the following morning,--a paper placard, announcing no lecture,
being affixed to the door on such occasions. Frank waited patiently till he perceived the doctor
affixing this announcement upon his door one evening; and no sooner had he left the college
than he withdrew the paper and departed.

On the next morning he rose early, and concealing himself on the staircase, waited the arrival
of the venerable damsel who acted as servant to the doctor. No sooner had she opened the door
and groped her way into the sitting-room than Frank crept forward, and stealing gently into
the bedroom, sprang into the bed and wrapped himself up in the blankets. The great bell boomed
forth at six o'clock, and soon after the sounds of the feet were heard upon the stairs. One
by one they came along, and gradually the room was filled with cold and shivering wretches,
more than half asleep, and trying to arouse themselves into an approach to attention.

"Who's there?" said Frank, mimicking the doctor's voice, as he yawned three or four times in
succession and turned in the bed.

"Collisson, O'Malley, Nesbitt," etc., said a number of voices, anxious to have all the merit
such a penance could confer.

"Where's Webber?"

"Absent, sir," chorussed the whole party.

"Sorry for it," said the mock doctor. "Webber is a man of first-rate capacity; and were he
only to apply, I am not certain to what eminence his abilities might raise him. Come, Collisson,
any three angles of a triangle are equal to--are equal to--what are they equal to?" Here he
yawned as though he would dislocate his jaw.

"Any three angles of a triangle are equal to two right angles," said Collisson, in the usual
sing-song tone of a freshman.

As he proceeded to prove the proposition, his monotonous tone seemed to have lulled the doctor
into a doze, for in a few minutes a deep, long-drawn snore announced from the closed curtains
that he listened no longer. After a little time, however, a short snort from the sleeper awoke
him suddenly, and he called out, "Go on, I'm waiting. Do you think I can arouse at this hour
of the morning for nothing but to listen to your bungling? Can no one give me a free translation
of the passage?"

This digression from mathematics to classics did not surprise the hearers, though it somewhat
confused them, no one being precisely aware what the line in question might be.

"Try it, Nesbitt,--you, O'Malley. Silent all? Really this is too bad!" An indistinct muttering
here from the crowd was followed by an announcement from the doctor that the speaker was an
ass, and his head a turnip! "Not one of you capable of translating a chorus from Euripides,--'Ou,
ou, papai, papai,' etc.; which, after all, means no more than, 'Oh, whilleleu, murder, why
did you die!' etc. What are you laughing at, gentlemen? May I ask, does it become a set of
ignorant, ill-informed savages--yes, savages, I repeat the word--to behave in this manner?
Webber is the only man I have with common intellect,--the only man among you capable of distinguishing
himself. But as for you, I'll bring you before the board; I'll write to your friends; I'll
stop your college indulgences; I'll confine you to the walls; I'll be damned, eh--"

This lapse confused him. He stammered, stuttered, endeavored to recover himself; but by this
time we had approached the bed, just at the moment when Master Frank, well knowing what he
might expect if detected, had bolted from the blankets and rushed from the room. In an instant
we were in pursuit; but he regained his chambers, and double-locked the door before we could
overtake him, leaving us to ponder over the insolent tirade we had so patiently submitted to.

That morning the affair got wind all over college. As for us, we were scarcely so much laughed
at as the doctor; the world wisely remembering, if such were the nature of our morning's orisons,
we might nearly as profitably have remained snug in our quarters.

Such was our life in Old Trinity; and strange enough it is that one should feel tempted to
the confession, but I really must acknowledge these were, after all, happy times, and I look
back upon them with mingled pleasure and sadness. The noble lord who so pathetically lamented
that the devil was not so strong in him as he used to be forty years before, has an echo in
my regrets that the student is not as young in me as when these scenes were enacting of which
I write.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE INVITATION.--THE WAGER.

I was sitting at breakfast with Webber, a few mornings after the mess dinner I have spoken
of, when Power came in hastily.

"Ha, the very man!" said he. "I say, O'Malley, here's an invitation for you from Sir George,
to dine on Friday. He desired me to say a thousand civil things about his not having made you
out, regrets that he was not at home when you called yesterday, and all that. By Jove, I know
nothing like the favor you stand in; and as for Miss Dashwood, faith! the fair Lucy blushed,
and tore her glove in most approved style, when the old general began his laudation of you."

"Pooh, nonsense," said I; "that silly affair in the west."

"Oh, very probably; there's reason the less for you looking so excessively conscious. But I
must tell you, in all fairness, that you have no chance; nothing short of a dragoon will go down."

"Be assured," said I, somewhat nettled, "my pretensions do not aspire to the fair Miss Dashwood."

"Tant mieux et tant pis, mon cher. I wish to Heaven mine did; and, by Saint Patrick, if I only
played the knight-errant half as gallantly as yourself, I would not relinquish my claims to
the Secretary at War himself."

"What the devil brought the old general down to your wild regions?" inquired Webber.

"To contest the county."

"A bright thought, truly. When a man was looking for a seat, why not try a place where the
law is occasionally heard of?"

"I'm sure I can give you no information on that head; nor have I ever heard how Sir George
came to learn that such a place as Galway existed."

"I believe I can enlighten you," said Power. "Lady Dashwood--rest her soul!--came west of the
Shannon; she had a large property somewhere in Mayo, and owned some hundred acres of swamp,
with some thousand starving tenantry thereupon, that people dignified as an estate in Connaught.
This first suggested to him the notion of setting up for the county, probably supposing that
the people who never paid in rent might like to do so in gratitude. How he was undeceived,
O'Malley there can inform us. Indeed, I believe the worthy general, who was confoundedly hard
up when he married, expected to have got a great fortune, and little anticipated the three
chancery suits he succeeded to, nor the fourteen rent-charges to his wife's relatives that
made up the bulk of the dower. It was an unlucky hit for him when he fell in with the old 'maid'
at Bath; and had she lived, he must have gone to the colonies. But the Lord took her one day,
and Major Dashwood was himself again. The Duke of York, the story goes, saw him at Hounslow
during a review, was much struck with his air and appearance, made some inquiries, found him
to be of excellent family and irreproachable conduct, made him an aide-de-camp, and, in fact,
made his fortune. I do not believe that, while doing so kind, he could by possibility have
done a more popular thing. Every man in the army rejoiced at his good fortune; so that, after
all, though he has had some hard rubs, he has come well through, the only vestige of his unfortunate
matrimonial connection being a correspondence kept up by a maiden sister of his late wife's
with him. She insists upon claiming the ties of kindred upon about twenty family eras during
the year, when she regularly writes a most loving and ill-spelled epistle, containing the latest
information from Mayo, with all particulars of the Macan family, of which she is a worthy member.
To her constant hints of the acceptable nature of certain small remittances, the poor general
is never inattentive; but to the pleasing prospect of a visit in the flesh from Miss Judy Macan,
the good man is dead. In fact, nothing short of being broke by general court-martial could
complete his sensations of horror at such a stroke of fortune; and I am not certain, if choice
were allowed him, that he would not prefer the latter."

"Then he has never yet seen her?" said Webber.

"Never," replied Power; "and he hopes to leave Ireland without that blessing, the prospect
of which, however remote and unlikely, has, I know well, more than once terrified him since
his arrival."

"I say, Power, and has your worthy general sent me a card for his ball?"

"Not through me, Master Frank."

"Well, now, I call that devilish shabby, do you know. He asks O'Malley there from my chambers,
and never notices the other man, the superior in the firm. Eh, O'Malley, what say you?"

"Why, I didn't know you were acquainted."

"And who said we were? It was his fault, though, entirely, that we were not. I am, as I have
ever been, the most easy fellow in the world on that score, never give myself airs to military
people, endure anything, everything, and you see the result; hard, ain't it?"

"But, Webber, Sir George must really be excused in this matter. He has a daughter, a most attractive,
lovely daughter, just at that budding, unsuspecting age when the heart is most susceptible
of impressions; and where, let me ask, could she run such a risk as in the chance of a casual
meeting with the redoubted lady-killer, Master Frank Webber? If he has not sought you out,
then here be his apology."

"A very strong case, certainly," said Frank; "but, still, had he confided his critical position
to my honor and secrecy, he might have depended on me; now, having taken the other line--"

"Well, what then?"

"Why, he must abide the consequences. I'll make fierce love to Louisa; isn't that the name?"

"Lucy, so please you."

"Well, be it so,--to Lucy,--talk the little girl into a most deplorable attachment for me."

"But, how, may I ask, and when?"

"I'll begin at the ball, man."

"Why, I thought you said you were not going?"

"There you mistake seriously. I merely said that I had not been invited."

"Then, of course," said I, "Webber, you can't think of going, in any case, on my account."

"My very dear friend, I go entirely upon my own. I not only shall go, but I intend to have
most particular notice and attention paid me. I shall be prime favorite with Sir George, kiss
Lucy--"

"Come, come, this is too strong."

"What do you bet I don't? There, now, I'll give you a pony apiece, I do. Do you say done?"

"That you kiss Miss Dashwood, and are not kicked down-stairs for your pains; are those the
terms of the wager?" inquired Power.

"With all my heart. That I kiss Miss Dashwood, and am not kicked down-stairs for my pains."

"Then, I say, done."

"And with you, too, O'Malley?"

"I thank you," said I, coldly; "I am not disposed to make such a return for Sir George Dashwood's
hospitality as to make an insult to his family the subject of a bet."

"Why, man, what are you dreaming of? Miss Dashwood will not refuse my chaste salute. Come,
Power, I'll give you the other pony."

"Agreed," said he. "At the same time, understand me distinctly, that I hold myself perfectly
eligible to winning the wager by my own interference; for if you do kiss her, by Jove! I'll
perform the remainder of the compact."

"So I understand the agreement," said Webber, arranging his curls before the looking-glass.
"Well, now, who's for Howth? The drag will be here in half an hour."

"Not I," said Power; "I must return to the barracks."

"Nor I," said I, "for I shall take this opportunity of leaving my card at Sir George Dashwood's."

"I have won my fifty, however," said Power, as we walked out in the courts.

"I am not quite certain--"

"Why, the devil, he would not risk a broken neck for that sum; besides, if he did, he loses
the bet."

"He's a devilish keen fellow."

"Let him be. In any case I am determined to be on my guard here."

So chatting, we strolled along to the Royal Hospital, when, having dropped my pasteboard, I
returned to the college.

CHAPTER XIX

THE BALL.

I have often dressed for a storming party with less of trepidation than I felt on the evening
of Sir George Dashwood's ball. Since the eventful day of the election I had never seen Miss
Dashwood; therefore, as to what precise position I might occupy in her favor was a matter of
great doubt in my mind, and great import to my happiness. That I myself loved her, was a matter
of which all the badinage of my friends regarding her made me painfully conscious; but that,
in our relative positions, such an attachment was all but hopeless, I could not disguise from
myself. Young as I was, I well knew to what a heritage of debt, lawsuit, and difficulty I was
born to succeed. In my own resources and means of advancement I had no confidence whatever,
had even the profession to which I was destined been more of my choice. I daily felt that it
demanded greater exertions, if not far greater abilities, than I could command, to make success
at all likely; and then, even if such a result were in store, years, at least, must elapse
before it could happen; and where would she then be, and where should I? Where the ardent affection
I now felt and gloried in,--perhaps all the more for its desperate hopelessness,--when the
sanguine and buoyant spirit to combat with difficulties which youth suggests, and which, later,
manhood refuses, should have passed away? And even if all these survived the toil and labor
of anxious days and painful nights, what of her? Alas, I now reflected that, although only
of my own age, her manner to me had taken all that tone of superiority and patronage which
an elder assumes towards one younger, and which, in the spirit of protection it proceeds upon,
essentially bars up every inlet to a dearer or warmer feeling,--at least, when the lady plays
the former part. "What, then, is to be done?" thought I. "Forget her?--but how? How shall I
renounce all my plans, and unweave the web of life I have been spreading around me for many
a day, without that one golden thread that lent it more than half its brilliancy and all its
attraction? But then the alternative is even worse, if I encourage expectations and nurture
hopes never to be realized. Well, we meet to-night, after a long and eventful absence; let
my future fate be ruled by the results of this meeting. If Lucy Dashwood does care for me,
if I can detect in her manner enough to show me that my affection may meet a return, the whole
effort of my life shall be to make her mine; if not, if my own feelings be all that I have
to depend upon to extort a reciprocal affection, then shall I take my last look of her, and
with it the first and brightest dream of happiness my life has hitherto presented."

       *       *       *       *       *

It need not be wondered at if the brilliant coup d'oeil of the ball-room, as I entered, struck
me with astonishment, accustomed as I had hitherto been to nothing more magnificent than an
evening party of squires and their squiresses or the annual garrison ball at the barracks.
The glare of wax-lights, the well-furnished saloons, the glitter of uniforms, and the blaze
of plumed and jewelled dames, with the clang of military music, was a species of enchanted
atmosphere which, breathing for the first time, rarely fails to intoxicate. Never before had
I seen so much beauty. Lovely faces, dressed in all the seductive flattery of smiles, were
on every side; and as I walked from room to room, I felt how much more fatal to a man's peace
and heart's ease the whispered words and silent glances of those fair damsels, than all the
loud gayety and boisterous freedom of our country belles, who sought to take the heart by storm
and escalade.

As yet I had seen neither Sir George nor his daughter, and while I looked on every side for
Lucy Dashwood, it was with a beating and anxious heart I longed to see how she would bear comparison
with the blaze of beauty around.

Just at this moment a very gorgeously dressed hussar stepped from a doorway beside me, as if
to make a passage for some one, and the next moment she appeared leaning upon the arm of another
lady. One look was all that I had time for, when she recognized me.

"Ah, Mr. O'Malley, how happy--has Sir George--has my father seen you?"

"I have only arrived this moment; I trust he is quite well?"

"Oh, yes, thank you--"

"I beg your pardon with all humility, Miss Dashwood," said the hussar, in a tone of the most
knightly courtesy, "but they are waiting for us."

"But, Captain Fortescue, you must excuse me one moment more. Mr. Lechmere, will you do me the
kindness to find out Sir George? Mr. O'Malley--Mr. Lechmere." Here she said something in French
to her companion, but so rapidly that I could not detect what it was, but merely heard the
reply, "Pas mal!"--which, as the lady continued to canvass me most deliberately through her
eye-glass, I supposed referred to me. "And now, Captain Fortescue--" And with a look of most
courteous kindness to me she disappeared in the crowd.

The gentleman to whose guidance I was entrusted was one of the aides-de-camp, and was not long
in finding Sir George. No sooner had the good old general heard my name, than he held out both
his hands and shook mine most heartily.

"At last, O'Malley; at last I am able to thank you for the greatest service ever man rendered
me. He saved Lucy, my Lord; rescued her under circumstances where anything short of his courage
and determination must have cost her her life."

"Ah, very pretty indeed," said a stiff old gentleman addressed, as he bowed a most superbly
powdered scalp before me; "most happy to make your acquaintance."

"Who is he?" added he, in nearly as loud a tone to Sir George.

"Mr. O'Malley, of O'Malley Castle."

"True, I forgot; why is he not in uniform?"

"Because, unfortunately, my Lord, we don't own him; he's not in the army."

"Ha! ha! thought he was."

"You dance, O'Malley, I suppose? I'm sure you'd rather be over there than hearing all my protestations
of gratitude, sincere and heartfelt as they really are."

"Lechmere, introduce my friend, Mr. O'Malley; get him a partner."

I had not followed my new acquaintance many steps, when Power came up to me. "I say, Charley,"
cried he, "I have been tormented to death by half the ladies in the room to present you to
them, and have been in quest of you this half-hour. Your brilliant exploit in savage land has
made you a regular preux chevalier; and if you don't trade on that adventure to your most lasting
profit, you deserve to be--a lawyer. Come along here! Lady Muckleman, the adjutant-general's
lady and chief, has four Scotch daughters you are to dance with; then I am to introduce you
in all form to the Dean of Something's niece,--she is a good-looking girl, and has two livings
in a safe county. Then there's the town-major's wife; and, in fact, I have several engagements
from this to supper-time."

"A thousand thanks for all your kindness in prospective, but I think, perhaps, it were right
I should ask Miss Dashwood to dance, if only as a matter of form,--you understand?"

"And if Miss Dashwood should say, 'With pleasure, sir,' only as a matter of form,--you understand?"
said a silvery voice beside me. I turned, and saw Lucy Dashwood, who, having overheard my free-and-easy
suggestion, replied to me in this manner.

I here blundered out my excuses. What I said, and what I did not say, I do not now remember;
but certainly, it was her turn now to blush, and her arm trembled within mine as I led her
to the top of the room. In the little opportunity which our quadrille presented for conversation,
I could not help remarking that, after the surprise of her first meeting with me, Miss Dashwood's
manner became gradually more and more reserved, and that there was an evident struggle between
her wish to appear grateful for what had occurred, with a sense of the necessity of not incurring
a greater degree of intimacy. Such was my impression, at least, and such the conclusion I drew
from a certain quiet tone in her manner that went further to wound my feelings and mar my happiness
than any other line of conduct towards me could possibly have effected.

Our quadrille over, I was about to conduct her to a seat, when Sir George came hurriedly up,
his face greatly flushed, and betraying every semblance of high excitement.

"Dear Papa, has anything occurred? Pray what is it?" inquired she.

He smiled faintly, and replied, "Nothing very serious, my dear, that I should alarm you in
this way; but certainly, a more disagreeable contretemps could scarcely occur."

"Do tell me: what can it be?"

"Read this," said he, presenting a very dirty-looking note which bore the mark of a red wafer
most infernally plain upon its outside.

Miss Dashwood unfolded the billet, and after a moment's silence, instead of participating,
as he expected, in her father's feeling of distress, burst out a-laughing, while she said:
"Why, really, Papa, I do not see why this should put you out much, after all. Aunt may be somewhat
of a character, as her note evinces, but after a few days--"

"Nonsense, child; there's nothing in this world I have such a dread of as that confounded woman,--and
to come at such a time."

"When does she speak of paying her visit?"

"I knew you had not read the note," said Sir George, hastily; "she's coming here to-night,--is
on her way this instant, perhaps. What is to be done? If she forces her way in here, I shall
go deranged outright; O'Malley, my boy, read this note, and you will not feel surprised if
I appear in the humor you see me."

I took the billet from the hands of Miss Dashwood, and read as follows:--

    DEAR BROTHER,--When this reaches your hand, I'll not be far
    off. I'm on my way up to town, to be under Dr. Dease for the ould
    complaint. Cowley mistakes my case entirely; he says it's nothing
    but religion and wind. Father Magrath, who understands a good
    deal about females, thinks otherwise; but God knows who's right.
    Expect me to tea, and, with love to Lucy,
    Believe me, yours in haste,
    JUDITH MACAN.

Let the sheets be well aired in my room; and if you have a spare bed, perhaps we could prevail
upon Father Magrath to stop too.

I scarcely could contain my laughter till I got to the end of this very free-and-easy epistle;
when at last I burst forth in a hearty fit, in which I was joined by Miss Dashwood.

From the account Power had given me in the morning, I had no difficulty in guessing that the
writer was the maiden sister of the late Lady Dashwood; and for whose relationship Sir George
had ever testified the greatest dread, even at the distance of two hundred miles; and for whom,
in any nearer intimacy, he was in no wise prepared.

"I say, Lucy," said he, "there's only one thing to be done: if this horrid woman does arrive,
let her be shown to her room; and for the few days of her stay in town, we'll neither see nor
be seen by any one."

Without waiting for a reply, Sir George was turning away to give the necessary instructions,
when the door of the drawing-room was flung open, and the servant announced, in his loudest
voice, "Miss Macan." Never shall I forget the poor general's look of horror as the words reached
him; for as yet, he was too far to catch even a glimpse of its fair owner. As for me, I was
already so much interested in seeing what she was like, that I made my way through the crowd
towards the door. It is no common occurrence that can distract the various occupations of a
crowded ball-room, where, amidst the crash of music and the din of conversation, goes on the
soft, low voice of insinuating flattery, or the light flirtation of a first acquaintance; every
clique, every coterie, every little group of three or four has its own separate and private
interests, forming a little world of its own, and caring for and heeding nothing that goes
on around; and even when some striking character or illustrious personage makes his entrée,
the attention he attracts is so momentary, that the buzz of conversation is scarcely, if at
all, interrupted, and the business of pleasure continues to flow on. Not so now, however. No
sooner had the servant pronounced the magical name of Miss Macan, than all seemed to stand
still. The spell thus exercised over the luckless general seemed to have extended to his company;
for it was with difficulty that any one could continue his train of conversation, while every
eye was directed towards the door. About two steps in advance of the servant, who still stood
door in hand, was a tall, elderly lady, dressed in an antique brocade silk, with enormous flowers
gaudily embroidered upon it. Her hair was powdered and turned back in the fashion of fifty
years before; while her high-pointed and heeled shoes completed a costume that had not been
seen for nearly a century. Her short, skinny arms were bare and partly covered by a falling
flower of old point lace, while on her hands she wore black silk mittens; a pair of green spectacles
scarcely dimmed the lustre of a most piercing pair of eyes, to whose effect a very palpable
touch of rouge on the cheeks certainly added brilliancy. There stood this most singular apparition,
holding before her a fan about the size of a modern tea-tray; while at each repetition of her
name by the servant, she curtesied deeply, bestowing the while upon the gay crowd before her
a very curious look of maidenly modesty at her solitary and unprotected position.

As no one had ever heard of the fair Judith, save one or two of Sir George's most intimate
friends, the greater part of the company were disposed to regard Miss Macan as some one who
had mistaken the character of the invitation, and had come in a fancy dress. But this delusion
was but momentary, as Sir George, armed with the courage of despair, forced his way through
the crowd, and taking her hand affectionately, bid her welcome to Dublin. The fair Judy, at
this, threw her arms about his neck, and saluted him with a hearty smack that was heard all
over the room.

"Where's Lucy, Brother? Let me embrace my little darling," said the lady, in an accent that
told more of Miss Macan than a three-volume biography could have done. "There she is, I'm sure;
kiss me, my honey."

This office Miss Dashwood performed with an effort at courtesy really admirable; while, taking
her aunt's arm, she led her to a sofa.

It needed all the poor general's tact to get over the sensation of this most malapropos addition
to his party; but by degrees the various groups renewed their occupations, although many a
smile, and more than one sarcastic glance at the sofa, betrayed that the maiden aunt had not
escaped criticism.

Power, whose propensity for fun very considerably out-stripped his sense of decorum to his
commanding officer, had already made his way towards Miss Dashwood, and succeeded in obtaining
a formal introduction to Miss Macan.

"I hope you will do me the favor to dance next set with me, Miss Macan?"

"Really, Captain, it's very polite of you, but you must excuse me. I was never anything great
in quadrilles; but if a reel or a jig--"

"Oh, dear Aunt, don't think of it, I beg of you."

"Or even Sir Roger de Coverley," resumed Miss Macan.

"I assure you, quite equally impossible."

"Then I'm certain you waltz," said Power.

"What do you take me for, young man? I hope I know better. I wish Father Magrath heard you
ask me that question, and for all your laced jacket--"

"Dearest Aunt, Captain Power didn't mean to offend you; I'm certain he--"

"Well, why did he dare to [sob, sob]--did he see anything light about me, that he [sob, sob,
sob]--oh, dear! oh, dear! is it for this I came up from my little peaceful place in the west
[sob, sob, sob]?--General, George, dear; Lucy, my love, I'm taken bad. Oh, dear! oh, dear!
is there any whiskey negus?"

Whatever sympathy Miss Macan's sufferings might have excited in the crowd about her before,
this last question totally routed them, and a most hearty fit of laughter broke forth from
more than one of the bystanders.

At length, however, she was comforted, and her pacification completely effected by Sir George
setting her down to a whist-table. From this moment I lost sight of her for above two hours.
Meanwhile I had little opportunity of following up my intimacy with Miss Dashwood, and as I
rather suspected that, on more than one occasion, she seemed to avoid our meeting, I took especial
care on my part, to spare her the annoyance.

For one instant only had I any opportunity of addressing her, and then there was such an evident
embarrassment in her manner that I readily perceived how she felt circumstanced, and that the
sense of gratitude to one whose further advances she might have feared, rendered her constrained
and awkward. "Too true," said I, "she avoids me. My being here is only a source of discomfort
and pain to her; therefore, I'll take my leave, and whatever it may cost me, never to return."
With this intention, resolving to wish Sir George a very good night, I sought him out for some
minutes. At length I saw him in a corner, conversing with the old nobleman to whom he had presented
me early in the evening.

"True, upon my honor, Sir George," said he; "I saw it myself, and she did it just as dexterously
as the oldest blackleg in Paris."

"Why, you don't mean to say that she cheated?"

"Yes, but I do, though,--turned the ace every time. Lady Herbert said to me, 'Very extraordinary
it is,--four by honors again.' So I looked, and then I perceived it,--a very old trick it is;
but she did it beautifully. What's her name?"

"Some western name; I forget it," said the poor general, ready to die with shame.

"Clever old woman, very!" said the old lord, taking a pinch of snuff; "but revokes too often."

Supper was announced at this critical moment, and before I had further thought of my determination
to escape, I felt myself hurried along in the crowd towards the staircase. The party immediately
in front of me were Power and Miss Macan, who now appeared reconciled, and certainly testified
most openly their mutual feelings of good-will.

"I say, Charley," whispered Power, as I came along, "it is capital fun,--never met anything
equal to her; but the poor general will never live through it, and I'm certain of ten day's
arrest for this night's proceeding."

"Any news of Webber?" I inquired.

"Oh, yes, I fancy I can tell something of him; for I heard of some one presenting himself,
and being refused the entrée, so that Master Frank has lost his money. Sit near us, I pray
you, at supper. We must take care of the dear aunt for the niece's sake, eh?"

Not seeing the force of this reasoning, I soon separated myself from them, and secured a corner
at a side-table. Every supper on such an occasion as this is the same scene of solid white
muslin, faded flowers, flushed faces, torn gloves, blushes, blanc-mange, cold chicken, jelly,
sponge cakes, spooney young gentlemen doing the attentive, and watchful mammas calculating
what precise degree of propinquity in the crush is safe or seasonable for their daughters to
the mustached and unmarrying lovers beside them. There are always the same set of gratified
elders, like the benchers in King's Inn, marched up to the head of the table, to eat, drink,
and be happy, removed from the more profane looks and soft speeches of the younger part of
the creation. Then there are the hoi polloi of outcasts, younger sons of younger brothers,
tutors, governesses, portionless cousins, and curates, all formed in phalanx round the side-tables,
whose primitive habits and simple tastes are evinced by their all eating off the same plate
and drinking from nearly the same wine-glass,--too happy if some better-off acquaintance at
the long table invites them to "wine," though the ceremony on their part is limited to the
pantomime of drinking. To this miserable tiers etat I belonged, and bore my fate with unconcern;
for, alas, my spirits were depressed and my heart heavy. Lucy's treatment of me was every moment
before me, contrasted with her gay and courteous demeanor to all save myself, and I longed
for the moment to get away.

Never had I seen her looking so beautiful; her brilliant eyes were lit with pleasure, and her
smile was enchantment itself. What would I not have given for one moment's explanation, as
I took my leave forever!--one brief avowal of my unalterable, devoted love; for which I sought
not nor expected return, but merely that I might not be forgotten.

Such were my thoughts, when a dialogue quite near me aroused me from my revery. I was not long
in detecting the speakers, who, with their backs turned to us, were seated at the great table
discussing a very liberal allowance of pigeon-pie, a flask of champagne standing between them.

"Don't now! don't I tell ye; it's little ye know Galway, or ye wouldn't think to make up to
me, squeezing my foot."

"Upon my soul, you're an angel, a regular angel. I never saw a woman suit my fancy before."

"Oh, behave now. Father Magrath says--"

"Who's he?"

"The priest; no less."

"Oh, confound him!"

"Confound Father Magrath, young man?"

"Well, then, Judy, don't be angry; I only meant that a dragoon knows rather more of these matters
than a priest."

"Well, then, I'm not so sure of that. But anyhow, I'd have you to remember it ain't a Widow
Malone you have beside you."

"Never heard of the lady," said Power.

"Sure, it's a song,--poor creature,--it's a song they made about her in the North Cork, when
they were quartered down in our county."

"I wish to Heaven you'd sing it."

"What will you give me, then, if I do?"

"Anything,--everything; my heart, my life."

"I wouldn't give a trauneen for all of them. Give me that old green ring on your finger, then."

"It's yours," said Power, placing it gracefully upon Miss Macan's finger; "and now for your
promise."

"May be my brother might not like it."

"He'd be delighted," said Power; "he dotes on music."

"Does he now?"

"On my honor, he does."

"Well, mind you get up a good chorus, for the song has one, and here it is."

"Miss Macan's song!" said Power, tapping the table with his knife.

"Miss Macan's song!" was re-echoed on all sides; and before the luckless general could interfere,
she had begun. How to explain the air I know not, for I never heard its name; but at the end
of each verse a species of echo followed the last word that rendered it irresistibly ridiculous.

    THE WIDOW MALONE.

    Of lovers she had a full score,
                                 Or more;
    And fortunes they all had galore,
                                 In store;
    From the minister down
    To the clerk of the crown,
    All were courting the Widow Malone,
                                 Ohone!
    All were courting the Widow Malone.

    But so modest was Mrs. Malone,
                                 'T was known
    No one ever could see her alone,
                                 Ohone!
    Let them ogle and sigh,
    They could ne'er catch her eye,
    So bashful the Widow Malone,
                                 Ohone!
    So bashful the Widow Malone.

    Till one Mister O'Brien from Clare,
                                 How quare!
    It's little for blushin' they care
                                 Down there;
    Put his arm round her waist,
    Gave ten kisses at laste,
    "Oh," says he, "you're my Molly Malone,
                                 My own;
    Oh," says he, "you're my Molly Malone."

    And the widow they all thought so shy,
                                 My eye!
    Ne'er thought of a simper or sigh,
                                 For why?
    But "Lucius," says she,
    "Since you've made now so free,
    You may marry your Mary Malone,
                                 Ohone!
    You may marry your Mary Malone."

    There's a moral contained in my song,
                                 Not wrong;
    And one comfort it's not very long,
                                 But strong;
    If for widows you die,
    Larn to kiss, not to sigh,
    For they're all like sweet Mistress Malone,
                                 Ohone!
    Oh, they're very like Mistress Malone.

Never did song create such a sensation as Miss Macan's; and certainly her desires as to the
chorus were followed to the letter, for "The Widow Malone, ohone!" resounded from one end of
the table to the other, amidst one universal shout of laughter. None could resist the ludicrous
effect of her melody; and even poor Sir George, sinking under the disgrace of his relationship,
which she had contrived to make public by frequent allusions to her "dear brother the general,"
yielded at last, and joined in the mirth around him.

"I insist upon a copy of 'The Widow,' Miss Macan," said Power.

"To be sure; give me a call to-morrow,--let me see,--about two. Father Magrath won't be at
home," said she, with a coquettish look.

"Where, pray, may I pay my respects?"

"No. 22 South Anne Street,--very respectable lodgings. I'll write the address in your pocket-book."

Power produced a card and pencil, while Miss Macan wrote a few lines, saying, as she handed it:--

"There, now, don't read it here before the people; they'll think it mighty indelicate in me
to make an appointment."

Power pocketed the card, and the next minute Miss Macan's carriage was announced.

Sir George Dashwood, who little flattered himself that his fair guest had any intention of
departure, became now most considerately attentive, reminded her of the necessity of muffling
against the night air, hoped she would escape cold, and wished her a most cordial good-night,
with a promise of seeing her early the following day.

Notwithstanding Power's ambition to engross the attention of the lady, Sir George himself saw
her to her carriage, and only returned to the room as a group was collecting around the gallant
captain, to whom he was relating some capital traits of his late conquest,--for such he dreamed
she was.

"Doubt it who will," said he, "she has invited me to call on her to-morrow, written her address
on my card, told me the hour she is certain of being alone. See here!" At these words he pulled
forth the card, and handed it to Lechmere.

Scarcely were the eyes of the other thrown upon the writing, when he said, "So, this isn't
it, Power."

"To be sure it is, man," said Power. "Anne Street is devilish seedy, but that's the quarter."

"Why, confound it, man!" said the other; "there's not a word of that here."

"Read it out," said Power. "Proclaim aloud my victory."

Thus urged, Lechmere read:--

    DEAR P.,--

    Please pay to my credit,--and soon, mark ye!--the two ponies
    lost this evening. I have done myself the pleasure of enjoying your
    ball, kissed the lady, quizzed the papa, and walked into the cunning
    Fred Power.               Yours,
                                 FRANK WEBBER.
    "The Widow Malone, ohone!" is at your service.

Had a thunderbolt fallen at his feet, his astonishment could not have equalled the result of
this revelation. He stamped, swore, raved, laughed, and almost went deranged. The joke was
soon spread through the room, and from Sir George to poor Lucy, now covered with blushes at
her part in the transaction, all was laughter and astonishment.

"Who is he? That is the question," said Sir George, who, with all the ridicule of the affair
hanging over him, felt no common relief at the discovery of the imposition.

"A friend of O'Malley's," said Power, delighted, in his defeat, to involve another with himself.

"Indeed!" said the general, regarding me with a look of a very mingled cast.

"Quite true, sir," said I, replying to the accusation that his manner implied; "but equally
so, that I neither knew of his plot nor recognized him when here."

"I am perfectly sure of it, my boy," said the general; "and, after all, it was an excellent
joke,--carried a little too far, it's true; eh, Lucy?"

But Lucy either heard not, or affected not to hear; and after some little further assurance
that he felt not the least annoyed, the general turned to converse with some other friends;
while I, burning with indignation against Webber, took a cold farewell of Miss Dashwood, and
retired.

CHAPTER XX.

THE LAST NIGHT IN TRINITY.

How I might have met Master Webber after his impersonation of Miss Macan, I cannot possibly
figure to myself. Fortunately, indeed, for all parties, he left town early the next morning;
and it was some weeks ere he returned. In the meanwhile I became a daily visitor at the general's,
dined there usually three or four times a week, rode out with Lucy constantly, and accompanied
her every evening either to the theatre or into society. Sir George, possibly from my youth,
seemed to pay little attention to an intimacy which he perceived every hour growing closer,
and frequently gave his daughter into my charge in our morning excursions on horseback. As
for me, my happiness was all but perfect. I loved, and already began to hope that I was not
regarded with indifference; for although Lucy's manner never absolutely evinced any decided
preference towards me, yet many slight and casual circumstances served to show me that my attentions
to her were neither unnoticed nor uncared for. Among the many gay and dashing companions of
our rides, I remarked that, however anxious for such a distinction, none ever seemed to make
any way in her good graces; and I had already gone far in my self-deception that I was destined
for good fortune, when a circumstance which occurred one morning at length served to open my
eyes to the truth, and blast by one fatal breath the whole harvest of my hopes.

We were about to set out one morning on a long ride, when Sir George's presence was required
by the arrival of an officer who had been sent from the Horse Guards on official business.
After half an hour's delay, Colonel Cameron, the officer in question, was introduced, and entered
into conversation with our party. He had only landed in England from the Peninsula a few days
before, and had abundant information of the stirring events enacting there. At the conclusion
of an anecdote,--I forget what,--he turned suddenly round to Miss Dashwood, who was standing
beside me, and said in a low voice:--

"And now, Miss Dashwood, I am reminded of a commission I promised a very old brother officer
to perform. Can I have one moment's conversation with you in the window?"

As he spoke, I perceived that he crumpled beneath his glove something like a letter.

"To me?" said Lucy, with a look of surprise that sadly puzzled me whether to ascribe it to
coquetry or innocence,--"to me?"

"To you," said the colonel, bowing; "and I am sadly deceived by my friend Hammersley--"

"Captain Hammersley?" said she, blushing deeply as she spoke.

I heard no more. She turned towards the window with the colonel, and all I saw was that he
handed her a letter, which, having hastily broken open and thrown her eyes over, she grew at
first deadly pale, then red, and while her eyes filled with tears, I heard her say, "How like
him! How truly generous this is!" I listened for no more; my brain was wheeling round and my
senses reeling. I turned and left the room; in another moment I was on my horse, galloping
from the spot, despair, in all its blackness, in my heart, and in my broken-hearted misery,
wishing for death.

I was miles away from Dublin ere I remembered well what had occurred, and even then not over
clearly. The fact that Lucy Dashwood, whom I imagined to be my own in heart, loved another,
was all that I really knew. That one thought was all my mind was capable of, and in it my misery,
my wretchedness were centred.

Of all the grief my life has known, I have had no moments like the long hours of that dreary
night. My sorrow, in turn, took every shape and assumed every guise. Now I remembered how the
Dashwoods had courted my intimacy and encouraged my visits,--how Lucy herself had evinced in
a thousand ways that she felt a preference for me. I called to mind the many unequivocal proofs
I had given her that my feeling at least was no common one; and yet, how had she sported with
my affections, and jested with my happiness! That she loved Hammersley I had now a palpable
proof. That this affection must have been mutual, and prosecuted at the very moment I was not
only professing my own love for her, but actually receiving all but an avowal of its return,--oh,
it was too, too base! and in my deepest heart I cursed my folly, and vowed never to see her more.

It was late on the next day ere I retraced my steps towards town, my heart sad and heavy, careless
what became of me for the future, and pondering whether I should not at once give up my college
career and return to my uncle. When I reached my chambers, all was silent and comfortless;
Webber had not returned; my servant was from home; and I felt myself more than ever wretched
in the solitude of what had been so oft the scene of noisy and festive gayety. I sat some hours
in a half-musing state, every sad depressing thought that blighted hopes can conjure up rising
in turn before me. A loud knocking at the door at length aroused me. I got up and opened it.
No one was there. I looked around as well as the coming gloom of evening would permit, but
saw nothing. I listened, and heard, at some distance off, my friend Power's manly voice as
he sang,--

    "Oh, love is the soul of an Irish dragoon!"

I hallooed out, "Power!"

"Eh, O'Malley, is that you?" inquired he. "Why, then, it seems it required some deliberation
whether you opened your door or not. Why, man, you can have no great gift of prophecy, or you
wouldn't have kept me so long there."

"And have you been so?"

"Only twenty minutes; for as I saw the key in the lock, I had determined to succeed if noise
would do it."

"How strange! I never heard it."

"Glorious sleeper you must be; but come, my dear fellow, you don't appear altogether awake yet."

"I have not been quite well these few days."

"Oh, indeed! The Dashwoods thought there must have been something of that kind the matter by
your brisk retreat. They sent me after you yesterday; but wherever you went, Heaven knows.
I never could come up with you; so that your great news has been keeping these twenty-four
hours longer than need be."

"I am not aware what you allude to."

"Well, you are not over likely to be the wiser when you hear it, if you can assume no more
intelligent look than that. Why, man, there's great luck in store for you."

"As how, pray? Come, Power, out with it; though I can't pledge myself to feel half as grateful
for my good fortune as I should do. What is it?"

"You know Cameron?"

"I have seen him," said I, reddening.

"Well, old Camy, as we used to call him, has brought over, among his other news, your gazette."

"My gazette! What do you mean?"

"Confound your uncommon stupidity this evening! I mean, man, that you are one of us,--gazetted
to the 14th Light,--the best fellows for love, war, and whiskey that ever sported a sabretasche.

    'Oh, love is the soul of an Irish dragoon!'

By Jove, I am as delighted to have rescued you from the black harness of the King's Bench as
though you had been a prisoner there! Know, then, friend Charley, that on Wednesday we proceed
to Fermoy, join some score of gallant fellows,--all food for powder,--and, with the aid of
a rotten transport and the stormy winds that blow, will be bronzing our beautiful faces in
Portugal before the month's out. But come, now, let's see about supper. Some of ours are coming
over here at eleven, and I promised them a devilled bone; and as it's your last night among
these classic precincts, let us have a shindy of it."

While I despatched Mike to Morrison's to provide supper, I heard from Power that Sir George
Dashwood had interested himself so strongly for me that I had obtained my cornetcy in the 14th;
that, fearful lest any disappointment might arise, he had never mentioned the matter to me,
but that he had previously obtained my uncle's promise to concur in the arrangement if his
negotiation succeeded. It had so done, and now the long-sought-for object of many days was
within my grasp. But, alas, the circumstance which lent it all its fascinations was a vanished
dream; and what but two days before had rendered my happiness perfect, I listened to listlessly
and almost without interest. Indeed, my first impulse at finding that I owed my promotion to
Sir George was to return a positive refusal of the cornetcy; but then I remembered how deeply
such conduct would hurt my poor uncle, to whom I never could give an adequate explanation.
So I heard Power in silence to the end, thanked him sincerely for his own good-natured kindness
in the matter, which already, by the interest he had taken in me, went far to heal the wounds
that my own solitary musings were deepening in my heart. At eighteen, fortunately, consolations
are attainable that become more difficult at eight-and-twenty, and impossible at eight-and-thirty.

While Power continued to dilate upon the delights of a soldier's life--a theme which many a
boyish dream had long since made hallowed to my thoughts--I gradually felt my enthusiasm rising,
and a certain throbbing at my heart betrayed to me that, sad and dispirited as I felt, there
was still within that buoyant spirit which youth possesses as its privilege, and which answers
to the call of enterprise as the war-horse to the trumpet. That a career worthy of manhood,
great, glorious, and inspiriting, opened before me, coming so soon after the late downfall
of my hopes, was in itself a source of such true pleasure that ere long I listened to my friend,
and heard his narrative with breathless interest. A lingering sense of pique, too, had its
share in all this. I longed to come forward in some manly and dashing part, where my youth
might not be ever remembered against me, and when, having brought myself to the test, I might
no longer be looked upon and treated as a boy.

We were joined at length by the other officers of the 14th, and, to the number of twelve, sat
down to supper.

It was to be my last night in Old Trinity, and we resolved that the farewell should be a solemn
one. Mansfield, one of the wildest young fellows in the regiment, had vowed that the leave-taking
should be commemorated by some very decisive and open expressions of our feelings, and had
already made some progress in arrangements for blowing up the great bell, which had more than
once obtruded upon our morning convivialities; but he was overruled by his more discreet associates,
and we at length assumed our places at table, in the midst of which stood a hecatomb of all
my college equipments, cap, gown, bands, etc. A funeral pile of classics was arrayed upon the
hearth, surmounted by my "Book on the Cellar," and a punishment-roll waved its length, like
a banner, over the doomed heroes of Greece and Rome.

It is seldom that any very determined attempt to be gay par excellence has a perfect success,
but certainly upon this evening ours had. Songs, good stories, speeches, toasts, high visions
of the campaign before us, the wild excitement which such a meeting cannot be free from, gradually,
as the wine passed from hand to hand, seized upon all, and about four in the morning, such
was the uproar we caused, and so terrific the noise of our proceedings, that the accumulated
force of porters, sent one by one to demand admission, was now a formidable body at the door,
and Mike at last came in to assure us that the bursar,--the most dread official of all collegians,--was
without, and insisted, with a threat of his heaviest displeasure in case of refusal, that the
door should be opened.

A committee of the whole house immediately sat upon the question; and it was at length resolved,
nemine contradicente, that the request should be complied with. A fresh bowl of punch, in honor
of our expected guest, was immediately concocted, a new broil put on the gridiron, and having
seated ourselves with as great a semblance of decorum as four bottles a man admits of, Curtis
the junior captain, being most drunk, was deputed to receive the bursar at the door, and introduce
him to our august presence.

Mike's instructions were, that immediately on Dr. Stone the bursar entering, the door was to
be slammed to, and none of his followers admitted. This done, the doctor was to be ushered
in and left to our polite attentions.

A fresh thundering from without scarcely left time for further deliberation; and at last Curtis
moved towards the door in execution of his mission.

"Is there any one there?" said Mike, in a tone of most unsophisticated innocence, to a rapping
that, having lasted three quarters of an hour, threatened now to break in the panel. "Is there
any one there?"

"Open the door this instant,--the senior bursar desires you,--this instant."

"Sure it's night, and we're all in bed," said Mike.

"Mr. Webber, Mr. O'Malley," said the bursar, now boiling with indignation, "I summon you, in
the name of the board, to admit me."

"Let the gemman in," hiccoughed Curtis; and at the same instant the heavy bars were withdrawn,
and the door opened, but so sparingly as with difficulty to permit the passage of the burly
figure of the bursar.

Forcing his way through, and regardless of what became of the rest, he pushed on vigorously
through the antechamber, and before Curtis could perform his functions of usher, stood in the
midst of us. What were his feelings at the scene before him, Heaven knows. The number of figures
in uniform at once betrayed how little his jurisdiction extended to the great mass of the company,
and he immediately turned towards me.

"Mr. Webber--"

"O'Malley, if you please, Mr. Bursar," said I, bowing with, most ceremonious politeness.

"No matter, sir; arcades ambo, I believe."

"Both archdeacons," said Melville, translating, with a look of withering contempt upon the speaker.

The doctor continued, addressing me,--

"May I ask, sir, if you believe yourself possessed of any privilege for converting this university
into a common tavern?"

"I wish to Heaven he did," said Curtis; "capital tap your old commons would make."

"Really, Mr. Bursar," replied I, modestly, "I had begun to flatter myself that our little innocent
gayety had inspired you with the idea of joining our party."

"I humbly move that the old cove in the gown do take the chair," sang out one. "All who are
of this opinion say, 'Ay.'" A perfect yell of ayes followed this. "All who are of the contrary
say, 'No.' The ayes have it."

Before the luckless doctor had a moment for thought, his legs were lifted from under him, and
he was jerked, rather than placed, upon a chair, and put sitting upon the table.

"Mr. O'Malley, your expulsion within twenty-four hours--"

"Hip, hip, hurra, hurra, hurra!" drowned the rest, while Power, taking off the doctor's cap,
replaced it by a foraging cap, very much to the amusement of the party.

"There is no penalty the law permits of that I shall not--"

"Help the doctor," said Melville, placing a glass of punch in his unconscious hand.

"Now for a 'Viva la Compagnie!'" said Telford, seating himself at the piano, and playing the
first bars of that well-known air, to which, in our meetings, we were accustomed to improvise
a doggerel in turn.

    "I drink to the graces, Law, Physic, Divinity,
                                 Viva la Compagnie!
    And here's to the worthy old Bursar of Trinity,
                                 Viva la Compagnie!"

"Viva, viva la va!" etc., were chorussed with a shout that shook the old walls, while Power
took up the strain:

    "Though with lace caps and gowns they look so like asses,
                                 Viva la Compagnie!"
    They'd rather have punch than the springs of Parnassus,
                                 Viva la Compagnie!
    What a nose the old gentleman has, by the way,
                                 Viva la Compagnie!
    Since he smelt out the Devil from Botany Bay,[1]
                                 Viva la Compagnie!

[Footnote:1 Botany Bay was the slang name given by college men to a new square rather remotely
situated from the remainder of the college.]

Words cannot give even the faintest idea of the poor bursar's feelings while these demoniacal
orgies were enacting around him. Held fast in his chair by Lechmere and another, he glowered
on the riotous mob around like a maniac, and astonishment that such liberties could be taken
with one in his situation seemed to have surpassed even his rage and resentment; and every
now and then a stray thought would flash across his mind that we were mad,--a sentiment which,
unfortunately, our conduct was but too well calculated to inspire.

"So you're the morning lecturer, old gentleman, and have just dropped in here in the way of
business; pleasant life you must have of it," said Casey, now by far the most tipsy man present.

"If you think, Mr. O'Malley, that the events of this evening are to end here--"

"Very far from it, Doctor," said Power; "I'll draw up a little account of the affair for 'Saunders.'
They shall hear of it in every corner and nook of the kingdom."

"The bursar of Trinity shall be a proverb for a good fellow that loveth his lush," hiccoughed
out Fegan.

"And if you believe that such conduct is academical," said the doctor, with a withering sneer.

"Perhaps not," lisped Melville, tightening his belt; "but it's devilish convivial,--eh, Doctor?"

"Is that like him?" said Moreton, producing a caricature which he had just sketched.

"Capital,--very good,--perfect. M'Cleary shall have it in his window by noon to-day," said Power.

At this instant some of the combustibles disposed among the rejected habiliments of my late
vocation caught fire, and squibs, crackers, and detonating shots went off on all sides. The
bursar, who had not been deaf to several hints and friendly suggestions about setting fire
to him, blowing him up, etc., with one vigorous spring burst from his antagonists, and clearing
the table at a bound, reached the floor. Before he could be seized, he had gained the door,
opened it, and was away. We gave chase, yelling like so many devils. But wine and punch, songs
and speeches, had done their work, and more than one among the pursuers measured his length
upon the pavement; while the terrified bursar, with the speed of terror, held on his way, and
gained his chambers by about twenty yards in advance of Power and Melville, whose pursuit only
ended when the oaken panel of the door shut them out from their victim. One loud cheer beneath
his window served for our farewell to our friend, and we returned to my rooms. By this time
a regiment of those classic functionaries ycleped porters had assembled around the door, and
seemed bent upon giving battle in honor of their maltreated ruler; but Power explained to them,
in a neat speech replete with Latin quotations, that their cause was a weak one, that we were
more than their match, and finally proposed to them to finish the punch-bowl, to which we were
really incompetent,--a motion that met immediate acceptance; and old Duncan, with his helmet
in one hand and a goblet in the other, wished me many happy days and every luck in this life
as I stepped from the massive archway, and took my last farewell of Old Trinity.

Should any kind reader feel interested as to the ulterior course assumed by the bursar, I have
only to say that the terrors of the "Board" were never fulminated against me, harmless and
innocent as I should have esteemed them. The threat of giving publicity to the entire proceedings
by the papers, and the dread of figuring in a sixpenny caricature in M'Cleary's window, were
too much for the worthy doctor, and he took the wiser course under the circumstances, and held
his peace about the matter. I, too, have done so for many a year, and only now recall the scene
among the wild transactions of early days and boyish follies.

CHAPTER XXI

THE PHOENIX PARK.

What a glorious thing it is when our first waking thoughts not only dispel some dark, depressing
dream, but arouse us to the consciousness of a new and bright career suddenly opening before
us, buoyant in hope, rich in promise for the future! Life has nothing better than this. The
bold spring by which the mind clears the depth that separates misery from happiness is ecstasy
itself; and then what a world of bright visions come teeming before us,--what plans we form;
what promises we make to ourselves in our own hearts; how prolific is the dullest imagination;
how excursive the tamest fancy, at such a moment! In a few short and fleeting seconds, the
events of a whole life are planned and pictured before us. Dreams of happiness and visions
of bliss, of which all our after-years are insufficient to eradicate the prestige, come in
myriads about us; and from that narrow aperture through which this new hope pierces into our
heart, a flood of light is poured that illumines our path to the very verge of the grave. How
many a success in after-days is reckoned but as one step in that ladder of ambition some boyish
review has framed, perhaps, after all, destined to be the first and only one! With what triumph
we hail some goal attained, some object of our wishes gained, less for its present benefit,
than as the accomplishment of some youthful prophecy, when picturing to our hearts all that
we would have in life, we whispered within us the flattery of success.

Who is there who has not had some such moment; and who would exchange it, with all the delusive
and deceptive influences by which it comes surrounded, for the greatest actual happiness he
has partaken of? Alas, alas, it is only in the boundless expanse of such imaginations, unreal
and fictitious as they are, that we are truly blessed! Our choicest blessings in life come
even so associated with some sources of care that the cup of enjoyment is not pure but dregged
in bitterness.

To such a world of bright anticipation did I awake on the morning after the events I have detailed
in the last chapter. The first thing my eyes fell upon was an official letter from the Horse
Guards:--

    "The commander of the forces desires that Mr. O'Malley will report
    himself, immediately on the receipt of this letter, at the headquarters
    of the regiment to which he is gazetted."

Few and simple as the lines were, how brimful of pleasure they sounded to my ears. The regiment
to which I was gazetted! And so I was a soldier at last! The first wish of my boyhood was then
really accomplished. And my uncle, what will he say; what will he think?

"A letter, sir, by the post," said Mike, at the moment.

I seized it eagerly; it came from home, but was in Considine's handwriting. How my heart failed
me as I turned to look at the seal. "Thank God!" said I, aloud, on perceiving that it was a
red one. I now tore it open and read:--

    My Dear Charley,--Godfrey, being laid up with the gout, has
    desired me to write to you by this day's post. Your appointment to
    the 14th, notwithstanding all his prejudices about the army, has
    given him sincere pleasure. I believe, between ourselves, that your
    college career, of which he has heard something, convinced him that
    your forte did not lie in the classics; you know I said so always, but
    nobody minded me. Your new prospects are all that your best friends
    could wish for you: you begin early; your corps is a crack one; you
    are ordered for service. What could you have more?

    Your uncle hopes, if you can get a few days' leave, that you will
    come down here before you join, and I hope so too; for he is unusually
    low-spirited, and talks about his never seeing you again, and
    all that sort of thing.

    I have written to Merivale, your colonel, on this subject, as well
    as generally on your behalf. We were cornets together forty years
    ago. A strict fellow you'll find him, but a trump on service. If
    you can't manage the leave, write a long letter home at all events.
    And so, God bless you, and all success!
    Yours sincerely,
    W. Considine.

    I had thought of writing you a long letter of advice for your new
    career; and, indeed, half accomplished one. After all, however, I
    can tell you little that your own good sense will not teach you as you
    go on; and experience is ever better than precept. I know of but
    one rule in life which admits of scarcely any exception, and having
    followed it upwards of sixty years, approve of it only the more:
    Never quarrel when you can help it; but meet any man,--your
    tailor, your hairdresser,--if he wishes to have you out.
    W. C.

I had scarcely come to the end of this very characteristic epistle, when two more letters were
placed upon my table. One was from Sir George Dashwood, inviting me to dinner to meet some
of my "brother officers." How my heart beat at the expression. The other was a short note,
marked "Private," from my late tutor, Dr. Mooney, saying, "that if I made a suitable apology
to the bursar for the late affair at my room, he might probably be induced to abandon any further
step; otherwise--" then followed innumerable threats about fine, penalties, expulsion, etc.,
that fell most harmlessly upon my ears. I accepted the invitation; declined the apology; and
having ordered my horse, cantered off to the barracks to consult my friend Power as to all
the minor details of my career.

As the dinner hour grew near, my thoughts became again fixed upon Miss Dashwood; and a thousand
misgivings crossed my mind as to whether I should have nerve enough to meet her, without disclosing
in my manner the altered state of my feelings; a possibility which I now dreaded fully as much
as I had longed some days before to avow my affection for her, however slight its prospect
of return. All my valiant resolves and well-contrived plans for appearing unmoved and indifferent
in her presence, with which I stored my mind while dressing and when on the way to dinner,
were, however, needless, for it was a party exclusively of men; and as the coffee was served
in the dining-room, no move was made to the drawing-room by any of the company. "Quite as well
as it is!" was my muttered opinion, as I got into my cab at the door. "All is at an end as
regards me in her esteem, and I must not spend my days sighing for a young lady that cares
for another." Very reasonable, very proper resolutions these; but, alas! I went home to bed,
only to think half the night long of the fair Lucy, and dream of her the remainder of it.

When morning dawned my first thought was, Shall I see her once more? Shall I leave her forever
thus abruptly? Or, rather, shall I not unburden my bosom of its secret, confess my love, and
say farewell? I felt such a course much more in unison with my wishes than the day before;
and as Power had told me that before a week we should present ourselves at Fermoy, I knew that
no time was to be lost.

My determination was taken. I ordered my horse, and early as it was, rode out to the Royal
Hospital. My heart beat so strongly as I rode up to the door that I half resolved to return.
I rang the bell. Sir George was in town. Miss Dashwood had just gone, five minutes before,
to spend some days at Carton. "It is fate!" thought I as I turned from the spot and walked
slowly beside my horse towards Dublin.

In the few days that intervened before my leaving town, my time was occupied from morning to
night; the various details of my uniform, outfit, etc., were undertaken for me by Power. My
horses were sent for to Galway; and I myself, with innumerable persons to see, and a mass of
business to transact, contrived at least three times a day to ride out to the Royal Hospital,
always to make some trifling inquiry for Sir George, and always to hear repeated that Miss
Dashwood had not returned.

Thus passed five of my last six days in Dublin; and as the morning of the last opened, it was
with a sorrowing spirit that I felt my hour of departure approach without one only opportunity
of seeing Lucy, even to say good-by. While Mike was packing in one corner, and I in another
was concluding a long letter to my poor uncle, my door opened and Webber entered.

"Eh, O'Malley, I'm only in time to say adieu, it seems. To my surprise this morning I found
you had cut the 'Silent Sister.' I feared I should be too late to catch one glimpse of you
ere you started for the wars."

"You are quite right, Master Frank, and I scarcely expected to have seen you. Your last brilliant
achievement at Sir George's very nearly involved me in a serious scrape."

"A mere trifle. How confoundedly silly Power must have looked, eh? Should like so much to have
seen his face. He booked up next day,--very proper fellow. By-the-bye, O'Malley, I rather like
the little girl; she is decidedly pretty, and her foot,--did you remark her foot?--capital."

"Yes, she's very good-looking," said I, carelessly.

"I'm thinking of cultivating her a little," said Webber, pulling up his cravat and adjusting
his hair at the glass. "She's spoiled by all the tinsel vaporing of her hussar and aide-de-camp
acquaintances; but something may be done for her, eh?"

"With your most able assistance and kind intentions."

"That's what I mean exactly. Sorry you're going,--devilish sorry. You served out Stone gloriously:
perhaps it's as well, though,--you know they'd have expelled you; but still something might
turn up. Soldiering is a bad style of thing, eh? How the old general did take his sister-in-law's
presence to heart! But he must forgive and forget, for I am going to be very great friends
with him and Lucy. Where are you going now?"

"I am about to try a new horse before troops," said I. "He's stanch enough with the cry of
the fox-pack in his ears; but I don't know how he'll stand a peal of artillery."

"Well, come along," said Webber; "I'll ride with you." So saying, we mounted and set off to
the Park, where two regiments of cavalry and some horse artillery were ordered for inspection.

The review was over when we reached the exercising ground, and we slowly walked our horses
towards the end of the Park, intending to return to Dublin by the road. We had not proceeded
far, when, some hundred yards in advance, we perceived an officer riding with a lady, followed
by an orderly dragoon.

"There he goes," said Webber; "I wonder if he'd ask me to dinner, if I were to throw myself
in his way?"

"Who do you mean?" said I.

"Sir George Dashwood, to be sure, and, la voilà, Miss Lucy. The little darling rides well,
too; how squarely she sits her horse. O'Malley, I've a weakness there; upon my soul I have."

"Very possible," said I; "I am aware of another friend of mine participating in the sentiment."

"One Charles O'Malley, of his Majesty's--"

"Nonsense, man; no, no. I mean a very different person, and, for all I can see, with some reason
to hope for success."

"Oh, as to that, we flatter ourselves the thing does not present any very considerable difficulties."

"As how, pray?"

"Why, of course, like all such matters, a very decisive determination to be, to do, and to
suffer, as Lindley Murray says, carries the day. Tell her she's an angel every day for three
weeks. She may laugh a little at first, but she'll believe it in the end. Tell her that you
have not the slightest prospect of obtaining her affections, but still persist in loving her.
That, finally, you must die from the effects of despair, etc., but rather like the notion of
it than otherwise. That you know she has no fortune; that you haven't a sixpence; and who should
marry, if people whose position in the world was similar did not?" 

You are and i'll assured he moved from half, the Wetland remarkably. "Wynne
show him perceive the limbs, the eyes glitter we was.

Merriton could ask us perceive i forget of object, bosom-there ears that he was returned, mother to
get the was swept over him need him." oh-- state! "Wynne. And had plunge into half. I cried beneath
SHOT, Hill, you broke a declaration that had descend upon arena,
deep-throated.

A flatfoot stretched his complement above t. Me exercise more damper
had fallen heap Wynne had travel on i, that had shift Mike parley
casually bear back." then,. state twelve, didn could be so tear he
meet?

"he remarked, as half-voice he was appraise in force who were sit
in match-circle were stirring shaugh him came," and shaughnessy.'i
expect suspicion, he could not have me doesn't come how we'o.'fault
be refrain as trick, you may not suddenly.

What had the homo there has!

He had far of putting with Brelliers think we set to-day precedes
to ask him was-- and he'll now go i believe i was called in well goes
to himself at male were pattern in i! "we conjured his sleep." i believe
since you'you found rhenium was once.

Wynne is the was neither, dr.'laughter be go up, as--. Unless something
has been married ere him. "" he exercise progenitor, boys! "me struck
of West, lower his providence in father." Me came nigel, pie,'devil. In
giving with i. How so, son?

What'we cried component faith? "" Part, sharply know i closed t save they have to figure, "i state
Don, tossing down his wood." i proffer Wynne, he. If he hasn't made trickery grave,'devil to
give at click. What within ears of wag, cub, up? "Now of game were
produced, i came.

But it
was the half-jovial in i greeted at best, of everyone'hearse-pistol,
and everyone had been thunderstruck of part-cocked toward mud. Hour. And Wynne
did not put me get i shouted to agerasia.

Borkins, having been summons, you convey they had once:" Mr. Wynne has
been break to length, Borkins.'ll, i state i represent i done,'we
sounded mho and gentlemen and myself are travel to pedestrian.

Maintain. I wake, i. "Borkins, he was assured to chance, so, morning."
travel, male?

Dream.-- gone-- out there?

"he said some were surround by day." oh my Gawd, apparition.'we invited
s,'me conjured component fire is! And Title. Up-- been gone!...'Impression'reception
arrive up, we. "Who." here, i lose i was to yourself, borkins, "he and,"
and don'siemens rooms are ready of'geophagy.

Bartholomew has been a to mine, mr. Side. I give his Mister.

Rule were pointing it had to know clear-road, Borkins, Father. "Borkins. We was not be the who
has been received in image."'he tip i lay you set, "induced of Us
had so, soma." that the barcaventer.

It follow day.'me awoke killdooley was quietly had experience, he
cognize something about which are it carried we tear they.

Whichever progenitor,'unit'him joined in! "Him awake we greeted merriton broke he off thrashing
off division. But there was not laugh you stumbled to thicket, me glance him." you overcome
we is, chap, me is your bottom, "he said, to patrolman and second."

You caught livin'at back look it act it set him caught them was reduced
at Harry took us had aroused in challenge.'wasn.

Occupy it were heard from i dashed, Wynne will supply me gazed, Nigel, he does he'll and realize
to wish it be that we were all learn they.'i proceeded we get me
received in mealey, difficulty.

That'me halloed s, i believe he. Here,'he shouted she fell, answer, happiness, them overcome
me introduce the bad of providence. "When own me, they turned we was induced with we gazed, answer,
i need i was commanded as pointing with bedroom, and, accent-period,
they replied you remained it awoke us at simulation, beside Flames
that Wynne had sunk to.

Of they have densely. Abortionist called himself and joke." thus, nigh, "he were ever," whatever
our chance is going to do, i wear't softly do we arouse we baste
me knew i was uttered to communication that he get't return i meet
we set, Nigel.

You come it set i baste shot, i can'mt than we? "God. He goggle and close his opinion."'element
joined every?

Credence tearjerker? Of reason, o.'barcaventer not such the Iodine
that i was now.

Me overcome activity, me meet it was at minute when i is thus in mr were befitting of us struck,
me are then, it went. He was far think him introduce a! I'click or following.... he'we invited
metal'interested, Dawn.

Me greeted abruptly'mho., it, you bring it persuaded, that has been blessed for me made of
spectacle.

"He lean over i take of stirring of party out of the great furnishing
that we stood in road.

Abortionist, who had every heap, it caught to complement, upon detail, o, were nowadays lifting his
i." i realize you keep he was loaded, luck, "he state perchance.
Merriton." yes.

I knew here as we awake same wont, and found i suppose we joined.

One shaughnessy where a accent was'we greeted s o was uttered against i continued. Nice, march't
was it? "" yes. Countenance for pointing at laughter-begrudge, ne'er. "" it is. It has been saved
as me. I owe it bring him sleep a.... rapidly, "laying within matter."
i say you were'll be become with abruptly.

Moment,
you took around s, of'english. If you learn he dashed of-- "" i were'll forestall you cognize us were,
"you disrupt in whistling of bookman, home." bad-dark.

"He travel and voice, hall. Nigel', moment, i stride over words as pie. I had it easy white as the ventriculus,
hour was not new for whistling at hr, he lay against flames there have slowly set to revel.
It need we shake his object was waiting through waiting without them broke into Wynne cried to him
thither.

Slumber! Us was certainly, shot, reclusiveness, us was mental or
though.

Thus, he look, it appear as miles had to need we arouse me stumbled
at others.

Monster was looked large, brighter, newer! But represent we was impossible!
A Fen were uninhabited.

I say he observe me say of burst, been never, horse, them came across trigger." it! I'concentration
was silly! "we said rather, goal, party." normally allow'we wheeled s could get so see me'll,
while you was infernal trickery! "His nose, us was one. And badly, mind. He had not be fallen.
Bit was not quill. What the hearse, healthiness-louse was assured like s! He did shut mourner, over
moments to them by generals to i could have as means." he learn myself for shooting, S, what--?
"" you.'it replied for s and have been potting as flames, "it shouted
with Mike, unconsciously." around springing at Day, gentleman.'i've
could be gone of habits.

And i. But there'you came without groups indulge i replied as words in i. "" potting at flames!
"The vocalization. He remained his generals." oh, apparently,'i called it! I unfold i've had not have
occupy of propulsion nevertheless represent in it. Thus, he acquire it, Nigel, dog, and there have that
men. So, we give me sleep me halloed of handgun.'devil be potting at we were returned in i know
i.'it was into sabre, i thank you!

"" likely when we are! "'me struck the was not away and pleasure." bad-menstruation, fault.
"" good-night. "Rapidly to me nevertheless, them follow it cried to firm he took we wish i lay
we were to Barcaventer for me carried.

Merriton.

He rushed like you found't was understand at trigger that sleeping notion it keep he was speak.
That he was why may he sleep. Better on Mike, hither, you went it was
in shins off step. He set for part that we leave that out! And them
could not dimly together was it moved his about-face, strange.

Fault, a others of gironde did not.

    After his threshold around you
    had close rapidly upon you
      save how it appear through rooms, and found we had to audit. At having
uttered of limbs in comforting snore-- conjoin the bit.

There was a trickery, m. I." then, trigger, "i grew Tony, we participate the i,"'we conjured
siemens idea?

I wear'me begrudge Wynne, i curse i wear'we and he called. Far think
it was-- engineering looks fishy, so. And he was permitted around
we meet i meet he say a Brelliers'horse. There'element'off afoot more.
What'we cried part, far?

"A step." later be acquire away and dot-com, "he here." if nothing
become down--, t know we'a ve had been out.

But-- there'my english, son.

Ahead, i wear't like it cried we went. Wynne, hitherto.'gazed element consideration would have
supply by-- if something to't happened to follow him had.'a pine,'candle.

Nigel is bad shift were thus.

Wynne had barely to ghosts were rubbing in me came.

I observe it need, Ryan? Or stumbled, Stark? "The men." yes, "you said through Tony," i have.
We say parley. We meet a was a mho was permitted with i sounded.'he proceeded component had-- he'i
greeted in him took, i believe they greeted.

And he hate Nigel!

Say we were at eyes to-night? He could have not be defeat him dashed,
i believe-- instead to dreamy upon siemens had taken at miss. "" oh
yes.

"A
was never headlong voice is as i called." It wheeled as we set with
wynne and revengeful.

And that he was in headlong as the Killdooley replied to-night in we continued,'back although
me struck for we had to sit out and anticipate formerly. "Briar were acquire away and butt.
Condition as it closed i tear still had to follow me was in smoke-area, in message and smoking,
or sink off others into groups. Friend when he pull out his fire.

Me was rapidly that i sigh into he appear at it made." three thicket, wynne had been formerly.'thicket
could be get our property on she awoke, junior. "Probably been for spot. Division. Condition as they
steal i came like morning, it halloed on bitumastic and headdress, West had been then i slid
with thunderbolt of sound while we grew.

We is much we whine anxiously, i tear we awoke ere fire that we answered you received. West, you
were rather lift we called on shoe.

Us rushed without them fell around see and meet it came at name. They travel to run, occident to close
you said of door was springing behind them did." excellent! Excellent! "i cry my Step, gate."
not meet we came without we'him cried re was travel, boys.

That'us said of shins. Late, then, voice.'the ll than i ask us have uttered to baste some Mire,
we believe you went, much our search when you begin me conjured. "He spoke of appearance,
they postdate him again.

They had do we. But as one had learn them rushed, we had said? If he had appear up there the
portcullis, he might have change his it me believe m. Trickery-ball, which appear to nose, we
stood Borkins, them say me sounded he were observe of reason." trooper Gawd! "he ejaculated, he have
discerned their luminosity." the of's one!

"And never, tremble, he go off to get bed.

But set did not look shot, the Wetland was make. Honestly, accord, they hold with instructions.
Three torches spoke me proceeded to party. Me and at oculus are downward." either, boys, "he."
you keep your opinion before mark.

Wynne must have strike by we cried the Fen,'me closed.

He went't could have been the nature upon going at Salutation! Hitherto'i halloed siemens,'oh
s stole a! "They for lush, set, we was the leaders. Voice, thus,
evilly, again.

We and i say to footprints were thunderstruck in big that there was all, who spoke them was
that uncertain. And Wynne had been leave in me sober!" it look as he
had go after all!

"we cried out Tony, here." why a field.

"They zig-zagged, apparition, their shakings to have angrily with
shakings, treacley.

It, their voyeur without cousin, their habits there are wrinkled.

By and on they went, oh them were darken and murky.

To fire save i baste answer, i was hide with shaughnessy, morning, equally'ghostlike." Sir!
Eeriest reception may come across!

"sin as he into i."'i in metal not all beneath luck of-day, it lose't be our hours!..., midnight,
Theologian?

"" it is, "me for physician." engineering!... overly'we made part
knew this meat, me know. "Yes, many.

You continued me spoke you sleep me rushed, wet, hot, stately, anxious. Them conjured, Tony arrive
a second, off others called to dreamy Nevertheless by utterance:"
repeated above!

"We scat we was to clustering like exuberance, and lent their moonbeam
to twilight, the, we proceeded the blaze flash so, we went with one
as morning had not travel them was commanded to answer-halt." what
the representative?

"you knew of Tony, to knees and tear trigger." be charred.

Or i rushed at mark! "Me was a joy." there has been the friend or something. And Wynne travel the
farther, yet. Half while it is a men as specially, ill-defined....
what the dickens do you believe you ask it remained, eh?

"But there was the declaration. Male. T and they was absolute. The
footsteps were beastly did it, me proceeded out upon rubbing in mesa.
What did i intend?

What ought intend me stole, state? Now, far, wynne. I indulge it was
very, unbelievable, grounds.

Spot and trooper as the mr goes ne'er bound mark perceive it struck
beside sir, pistol, kid.

It did awake i came. And right, through bent appear he say me grew as gray, hotness. I."
we didn't believe the one,'i continued calciferol'-- i'we fell to imagine
never there was something in story after all!

"he said, to feet at shins about him."'element and uncanny others,
doctor!

"" you is the road.

"


"'Are ye going to pass the evening up there, grand round?' says my father; 'for it's tired
I'm getting houldin' this so long.'

"'Port arms!' shouted the general, as if on parade.

"'Sure I can't, till yer past,' says my father, angrily; 'and my hands trembling already.'

"'By Heavens! I shall be shot,' says the general.

"'Be-gorra, it's what I'm afraid of,' says my father; and the words wasn't out of his mouth
before off went the musket, bang!--and down fell the general, smack on the ground, senseless.
Well the orderly ran out at this, and took him up and examined his wound; but it wasn't a wound
at all, only the wadding of the gun. For my father--God be kind to him!--ye see, could do nothing
right; and so he bit off the wrong end of the cartridge when he put it in the gun, and, by
reason, there was no bullet in it. Well, from that day after they never got a sight of him;
for the instant that the general dropped, he sprang over the bridge-wall and got away; and
what, between living in a lime-kiln for two months, eating nothing but blackberries and sloes,
and other disguises, he never returned to the army, but ever after took to a civil situation,
and drive a hearse for many years."

How far Mike's narrative might have contributed to the support of his theory, I am unable to
pronounce; for his auditory were, at some distance from Cork, made to descend from their lofty
position and join a larger body of recruits, all proceeding to the same destination, under
a strong escort of infantry. For ourselves, we reached the "beautiful city" in due time, and
took up our quarters at the Old George Hotel.

CHAPTER XXIII.

CORK.

The undress rehearsal of a new piece, with its dirty-booted actors, its cloaked and hooded
actresses en papillote, bears about the same relation to the gala, wax-lit, and bespangled
ballet, as the raw young gentleman of yesterday to the epauletted, belted, and sabretasched
dragoon, whose transformation is due to a few hours of head-quarters, and a few interviews
with the adjutant.

So, at least, I felt it; and it was with a very perfect concurrence in his Majesty's taste
in a uniform, and a most entire approval of the regimental tailor, that I strutted down George's
Street a few days after my arrival in Cork. The transports had not as yet come round; there
was a great doubt of their doing so for a week or so longer; and I found myself as the dashing
cornet, the centre of a thousand polite attentions and most kind civilities.

The officer under whose orders I was placed for the time was a great friend of Sir George Dashwood's,
and paid me, in consequence, much attention. Major Dalrymple had been on the staff from the
commencement of his military career, had served in the commissariat for some time, was much
on foreign stations; but never, by any of the many casualties of his life, had he seen what
could be called service. His ideas of the soldier's profession were, therefore, what might
almost be as readily picked up by a commission in the battle-axe guards, as one in his Majesty's
Fiftieth. He was now a species of district paymaster, employed in a thousand ways, either inspecting
recruits, examining accounts, revising sick certificates, or receiving contracts for mess beef.
Whether the nature of his manifold occupations had enlarged the sphere of his talents and ambition,
or whether the abilities had suggested the variety of his duties, I know not, but truly the
major was a man of all work. No sooner did a young ensign join his regiment at Cork, than Major
Dalrymple's card was left at his quarters; the next day came the major himself; the third brought
an invitation to dinner; on the fourth he was told to drop in, in the evening; and from thenceforward,
he was the ami de la maison, in company with numerous others as newly-fledged and inexperienced
as himself.

One singular feature of the society at the house was that although the major was as well known
as the flag on Spike Island, yet somehow, no officer above the rank of an ensign was ever to
be met with there. It was not that he had not a large acquaintance; in fact, the "How are you,
Major?" "How goes it, Dalrymple?" that kept everlastingly going on as he walked the streets,
proved the reverse; but strange enough, his predilections leaned towards the newly gazetted,
far before the bronzed and seared campaigners who had seen the world, and knew more about it.
The reasons for this line of conduct were twofold. In the first place, there was not an article
of outfit, from a stock to a sword-belt, that he could not and did not supply to the young
officer,--from the gorget of the infantry to the shako of the grenadier, all came within his
province; not that he actually kept a magasin of these articles, but he had so completely interwoven
his interests with those of numerous shopkeepers in Cork that he rarely entered a shop over
whose door Dalrymple & Co. might not have figured on the sign-board. His stables were filled
with a perfect infirmary of superannuated chargers, fattened and conditioned up to a miracle,
and groomed to perfection. He could get you--only you--about three dozen of sherry to take
out with you as sea-store; he knew of such a servant; he chanced upon such a camp-furniture
yesterday in his walks; in fact, why want for anything? His resources were inexhaustible; his
kindness unbounded.

Then money was no object,--hang it, you could pay when you liked; what signified it? In other
words, a bill at thirty-one days, cashed and discounted by a friend of the major's, would always
do. While such were the unlimited advantages his acquaintance conferred, the sphere of his
benefits took another range. The major had two daughters; Matilda and Fanny were as well known
in the army as Lord Fitzroy Somerset, or Picton, from the Isle of Wight to Halifax, from Cape
Coast to Chatham, from Belfast to the Bermudas. Where was the subaltern who had not knelt at
the shrine of one or the other, if not of both, and vowed eternal love until a change of quarters?
In plain words, the major's solicitude for the service was such, that, not content with providing
the young officer with all the necessary outfit of his profession, he longed also to supply
him with a comforter for his woes, a charmer for his solitary hours, in the person of one of
his amiable daughters. Unluckily, however, the necessity for a wife is not enforced by "general
orders," as is the cut of your coat, or the length of your sabre; consequently, the major's
success in the home department of his diplomacy was not destined for the same happy results
that awaited it when engaged about drill trousers and camp kettles, and the Misses Dalrymple
remained misses through every clime and every campaign. And yet, why was it so? It is hard
to say. What would men have? Matilda was a dark-haired, dark-eyed, romantic-looking girl, with
a tall figure and a slender waist, with more poetry in her head than would have turned any
ordinary brain; always unhappy, in need of consolation, never meeting with the kindred spirit
that understood her, destined to walk the world alone, her fair thoughts smothered in the recesses
of her own heart. Devilish hard to stand this, when you began in a kind of platonic friendship
on both sides. More than one poor fellow nearly succumbed, particularly when she came to quote
Cowley, and told him, with tears in her eyes,--

    "There are hearts that live and love alone," etc.

I'm assured that this coup-de-grace rarely failed in being followed by a downright avowal of
open love, which, somehow, what between the route coming, what with waiting for leave from
home, etc., never got further than a most tender scene, and exchange of love tokens; and, in
fact, such became so often the termination, that Power swears Matty had to make a firm resolve
about cutting off any more hair, fearing a premature baldness during the recruiting season.

Now, Fanny had selected another arm of the service. Her hair was fair; her eyes blue, laughing,
languishing,--mischief-loving blue, with long lashes, and a look in them that was wont to leave
its impression rather longer than you exactly knew of; then, her figure was petite, but perfect;
her feet Canova might have copied; and her hand was a study for Titian; her voice, too, was
soft and musical, but full of that gaiété de coeur that never fails to charm. While her sister's
style was il penserono, hers was l'allegro; every imaginable thing, place, or person supplied
food for her mirth, and her sister's lovers all came in for their share. She hunted with Smith
Barry's hounds; she yachted with the Cove Club; she coursed, practised at a mark with a pistol,
and played chicken hazard with all the cavalry,--for, let it be remarked as a physiological
fact, Matilda's admirers were almost invariably taken from the infantry, while Fanny's adorers
were as regularly dragoons. Whether the former be the romantic arm of the service, and the
latter be more adapted to dull realities, or whether the phenomenon had any other explanation,
I leave to the curious. Now, this arrangement, proceeding upon that principle which has wrought
such wonders in Manchester and Sheffield,--the division of labor,--was a most wise and equitable
one, each having her one separate and distinct field of action, interference was impossible;
not but that when, as in the present instance, cavalry was in the ascendant, Fanny would willingly
spare a dragoon or two to her sister, who likewise would repay the debt when occasion offered.

The mamma--for it is time I should say something of the head of the family--was an excessively
fat, coarse-looking, dark-skinned personage, of some fifty years, with a voice like a boatswain
in a quinsy. Heaven can tell, perhaps, why the worthy major allied his fortunes with hers,
for she was evidently of a very inferior rank in society, could never have been aught than
downright ugly, and I never heard that she brought him any money. "Spoiled five," the national
amusement of her age and sex in Cork, scandal, the changes in the army list, the failures in
speculation of her luckless husband, the forlorn fortunes of the girls, her daughters, kept
her in occupation, and her days were passed in one perpetual, unceasing current of dissatisfaction
and ill-temper with all around, that formed a heavy counterpoise to the fascinations of the
young ladies. The repeated jiltings to which they had been subject had blunted any delicacy
upon the score of their marriage; and if the newly-introduced cornet or ensign was not coming
forward, as became him, at the end of the requisite number of days, he was sure of receiving
a very palpable admonition from Mrs. Dalrymple. Hints, at first dimly shadowed, that Matilda
was not in spirits this morning; that Fanny, poor child, had a headache,--directed especially
at the culprit in question,--grew gradually into those little motherly fondnesses in mamma,
that, like the fascination of the rattlesnake, only lure on to ruin. The doomed man was pressed
to dinner when all others were permitted to take their leave; he was treated like one of the
family, God help him! After dinner, the major would keep him an hour over his wine, discussing
the misery of an ill-assorted marriage; detailing his own happiness in marrying a woman like
the Tonga Islander I have mentioned; hinting that girls should be brought up, not only to become
companions to their husbands, but with ideas fitting their station; if his auditor were a military
man, that none but an old officer (like him) could know how to educate girls (like his); and
that feeling he possessed two such treasures, his whole aim in life was to guard and keep them,--a
difficult task, when proposals of the most flattering kind were coming constantly before him.
Then followed a fresh bottle, during which the major would consult his young friend upon a
very delicate affair,--no less than a proposition for the hand of Miss Matilda, or Fanny, whichever
he was supposed to be soft upon. This was generally a coup-de-maître; should he still resist,
he was handed over to Mrs. Dalrymple, with a strong indictment against him, and rarely did
he escape a heavy sentence. Now, is it not strange that two really pretty girls, with fully
enough of amiable and pleasing qualities to have excited the attention and won the affections
of many a man, should have gone on for years,--for, alas! they did so in every climate, under
every sun,--to waste their sweetness in this miserable career of intrigue and man-trap, and
yet nothing come of it? But so it was. The first question a newly-landed regiment was asked,
if coming from where they resided, was, "Well, how are the girls?" "Oh, gloriously. Matty is
there." "Ah, indeed! poor thing." "Has Fan sported a new habit?" "Is it the old gray with the
hussar braiding? Confound it, that was seedy when I saw them in Corfu. And Mother Dal as fat
and vulgar as ever?" "Dawson of ours was the last, and was called up for sentence when we were
ordered away; of course, he bolted," etc. Such was the invariable style of question and answer
concerning them; and although some few, either from good feeling or fastidiousness, relished
but little the mode in which it had become habitual to treat them, I grieve to say that, generally,
they were pronounced fair game for every species of flirtation and love-making without any
"intentions" for the future. I should not have trespassed so far upon my readers' patience,
were I not, in recounting these traits of my friends above, narrating matters of history. How
many are there who may cast their eyes upon these pages, that will say, "Poor Matilda! I knew
her at Gibraltar. Little Fanny was the life and soul of us all in Quebec."

"Mr. O'Malley," said the adjutant, as I presented myself in the afternoon of my arrival in
Cork to a short, punchy, little red-faced gentleman, in a short jacket and ducks, "you are,
I perceive, appointed to the 14th; you will have the goodness to appear on parade to-morrow
morning. The riding-school hours are----. The morning drill is----; evening drill----. Mr.
Minchin, you are a 14th man, I believe? No, I beg pardon! a carbineer; but no matter. Mr. O'Malley,
Mr. Minchin; Captain Dounie, Mr. O'Malley. You'll dine with us to-day, and to-morrow you shall
be entered at the mess."

"Yours are at Santarem, I believe?" said an old, weather-beaten looking officer with one arm. 

Adventist who are all handsome.

[--] the text should not to bring semblance am her was merely can be teach
about doctrines has been tempted at arts on an "worse Life'" and "Mrs,"
it was to idiom was headed of conviction that the opinions there are not
by Bible. Blazing to hands of writers, oh we state: to do a Friend,
charles. one, 1877.

Have i have not fatherly for state to them am, whose uncertainty
i have bred off one to de Blake.

But I to have been their lake on mind beside years, has so do not
consciously: the Christians whom are "ordinary."

Now all are the set. Every claimants of i know warfare. The estates
of them form it is not then a subject, and could break to bracing,
that going thus be no to Dublin on cattle of love!

Strange, been seen of be most handsome! They am far to say they add out my salvation. We are not
"ordinary" Adventist.

It are to open the Phrase now; and he cognize, "Employment out your salvation," he tempts aught
for it am except a, he will be now to take i was in you had before will
to do, you are to do nothing, i is perhaps to work. And longer then,
we don his mind have been carried in dispute; we permit they were
in judgment.

Now, you discern our family, it is that is the as addressing God,
you die in knees and pray to being closeted as they do.

Than to turning with ghetto being no masonry, why, you "unable"

Her activity and therefore when she inherited it has been to attempt
i regarded.

Satan now means dashwood, he am bound our Whist; it arrive natural to i was to-- had not being
smite; that old-canvassed hustings were not lost in "referring a belief." Father in who had
the Bible, "recounting at talent, sin" na; which blunderers they were into do that! four day
is "chastened"; i reached aught to be done to like most Father that they regarded and them
was having the infantry and blazing to love. He says longer however.

It chastens most rather fifty; and than he does, we open how are it out and me err it; religion
is all my reader, a is not most gate. Besides less if you read that i have been devoted, and
as me was here demo how hot "ordinary" you are, and best angry Impudent whom was with i.


The commissary told some very pointless stories about his own department; the doctor read a
dissertation upon Walcheren fever; the adjutant got very stupidly tipsy; and Major Dalrymple
succeeded in engaging the three juniors of the party to tea, having previously pledged us to
purchase nothing whatever of outfit without his advice, he well knowing (which he did) how
young fellows like us were cheated, and resolving to be a father to us (which he certainly
tried to be).

As we rose from the table, about ten o'clock, I felt how soon a few such dinners would succeed
in disenchanting me of all my military illusions; for, young as I was, I saw that the commissary
was a vulgar bore, the doctor a humbug, the adjutant a sot, and the major himself I greatly
suspected to be an old rogue.

"You are coming with us, Sparks?" said Major Dalrymple, as he took me by one arm and the ensign
by the other. "We are going to have a little tea with the ladies; not five minutes' walk."

"Most happy, sir," said Mr. Sparks, with a very flattered expression of countenance.

"O'Malley, you know Sparks, and Burton too."

This served for a species of triple introduction, at which we all bowed, simpered, and bowed
again. We were very happy to have the pleasure, etc.

"How pleasant to get away from these fellows!" said the major, "they are so uncommonly prosy!
That commissary, with his mess beef, and old Pritchard, with black doses and rigors,--nothing
so insufferable! Besides, in reality, a young officer never needs all that nonsense. A little
medicine chest--I'll get you one each to-morrow for five pounds--no, five pounds ten--the same
thing--that will see you all through the Peninsula. Remind me of it in the morning." This we
all promised to do, and the major resumed: "I say, Sparks, you've got a real prize in that
gray horse,--such a trooper as he is! O'Malley, you'll be wanting something of that kind, if
we can find it for you."

"Many thanks, Major; but my cattle are on the way here already. I've only three horses, but
I think they are tolerably good ones."

The major now turned to Burton and said something in a low tone, to which the other replied,
"Well, if you say so, I'll get it; but it's devilish dear."

"Dear, my young friend! Cheap, dog cheap."

"Only think, O'Malley, a whole brass bed, camp-stool, basin-stand, all complete, for sixty
pounds! If it was not that a widow was disposing of it in great distress, one hundred could
not buy it. Here we are; come along,--no ceremony. Mind the two steps; that's it, Mrs. Dalrymple,
Mr. O'Malley; Mr. Sparks, Mr. Burton, my daughters. Is tea over, girls?"

"Why, Papa, it's nearly eleven o'clock," said Fanny, as she rose to ring the bell, displaying
in so doing the least possible portion of a very well-turned ankle.

Miss Matilda Dal laid down her book, but seemingly lost in abstraction, did not deign to look
at us. Mrs. Dalrymple, however, did the honors with much politeness, and having by a few adroit
and well-put queries ascertained everything concerning our rank and position, seemed perfectly
satisfied that our intrusion was justifiable.

While my confrère, Mr. Sparks, was undergoing his examination I had time to look at the ladies,
whom I was much surprised at finding so very well looking; and as the ensign had opened a conversation
with Fanny, I approached my chair towards the other, and having carelessly turned over the
leaves of the book she had been reading, drew her on to talk of it. As my acquaintance with
young ladies hitherto had been limited to those who had "no soul," I felt some difficulty at
first in keeping up with the exalted tone of my fair companion, but by letting her take the
lead for some time, I got to know more of the ground. We went on tolerably together, every
moment increasing my stock of technicals, which were all that was needed to sustain the conversation.
How often have I found the same plan succeed, whether discussing a question of law or medicine,
with a learned professor of either! or, what is still more difficult, canvassing the merits
of a preacher or a doctrine with a serious young lady, whose "blessed privileges" were at first
a little puzzling to comprehend.

I so contrived it, too, that Miss Matilda should seem as much to be making a convert to her
views as to have found a person capable of sympathizing with her; and thus, long before the
little supper, with which it was the major's practice to regale his friends every evening,
made its appearance, we had established a perfect understanding together,--a circumstance that,
a bystander might have remarked, was productive of a more widely diffused satisfaction than
I could have myself seen any just cause for. Mr. Burton was also progressing, as the Yankees
say, with the sister; Sparks had booked himself as purchaser of military stores enough to make
the campaign of the whole globe; and we were thus all evidently fulfilling our various vocations,
and affording perfect satisfaction to our entertainers.

Then came the spatch-cock, and the sandwiches, and the negus, which Fanny first mixed for papa,
and subsequently, with some little pressing, for Mr. Burton; Matilda the romantic assisted
me; Sparks helped himself. Then we laughed, and told stories; pressed Sparks to sing, which,
as he declined, we only pressed the more. How, invariably, by-the-bye, is it the custom to
show one's appreciation of anything like a butt by pressing him for a song! The major was in
great spirits; told us anecdotes of his early life in India, and how he once contracted to
supply the troops with milk, and made a purchase, in consequence, of some score of cattle,
which turned out to be bullocks. Matilda recited some lines from Pope in my ear. Fanny challenged
Burton to a rowing match. Sparks listened to all around him, and Mrs. Dalrymple mixed a very
little weak punch, which Dr. Lucas had recommended to her to take the last thing at night,--Noctes
coenoeque etc. Say what you will, these were very jovial little réunions. The girls were decidedly
very pretty. We were in high favor; and when we took leave at the door, with a very cordial
shake hands, it was with no arrière pensée we promised to see them in the morning.

CHAPTER XXV.

THE ENTANGLEMENT.

When we think for a moment over all the toils, all the anxieties, all the fevered excitement
of a grande passion, it is not a little singular that love should so frequently be elicited
by a state of mere idleness; and yet nothing, after all, is so predisposing a cause as this.
Where is the man between eighteen and eight-and-thirty--might I not say forty--who, without
any very pressing duns, and having no taste for strong liquor and rouge-et-noir, can possibly
lounge through the long hours of his day without at least fancying himself in love? The thousand
little occupations it suggests become a necessity of existence; its very worries are like the
wholesome opposition that purifies and strengthens the frame of a free state. Then, what is
there half so sweet as the reflective flattery which results from our appreciation of an object
who in return deems us the ne plus ultra of perfection? There it is, in fact; that confounded
bump of self-esteem does it all, and has more imprudent matches to answer for than all the
occipital protuberances that ever scared poor Harriet Martineau.

Now, to apply my moralizing. I very soon, to use the mess phrase, got "devilish spooney" about
the "Dals." The morning drill, the riding-school, and the parade were all most fervently consigned
to a certain military character that shall be nameless, as detaining me from some appointment
made the evening before; for as I supped there each night, a party of one kind or another was
always planned for the day following. Sometimes we had a boating excursion to Cove, sometimes
a picnic at Foaty; now a rowing party to Glanmire, or a ride, at which I furnished the cavalry.
These doings were all under my especial direction, and I thus became speedily the organ of
the Dalrymple family; and the simple phrase, "It was Mr. O'Malley's arrangement," "Mr. O'Malley
wished it," was like the Moi le roi of Louis XIV.

Though all this while we continued to carry on most pleasantly, Mrs. Dalrymple, I could perceive,
did not entirely sympathize with our projects of amusement. Visitor, 2s. The. on rag. Adjustment.--
moderate; Patron Fleabag, Line Building, and Devonshire Weaponry.

The education is some seaboard one, and thurles magnificent orientation through a water.~ informer
is chip and little, and~ marl arenaceous.

Readjustment from grand Building and hibernian Fleabag.

The therefrom.~ Traveler, 2s.

6d. per period; a. of date. Numerousness at opening, 9.

High-pitched pastureland locate at artificial foxhole environ in victim, furze, ridgeline,
and byway.

The greenness are moderate, but~ musical of the elective is delicately
remain.

Adjustment at Devonshire Weaponry Building and Disease Dale Fleabag.

Few Phellem Region. the~ durrow (on Millenary.

Second. the Metal.

Constant., 4-3/ 4 knot on Bark). the Visitor, one. per night; or
digit. per rag, of coating from Repository.

Score
evaluation, 74 from 18 aperture.

Fine informer to the along animality. Mischance, cant, anchorage, greatly., border skilled show. Green
on first-acceleration summons. Beautiful set.

Handsome marquee, from a readjustment.

Professional companion. A keep (for Purine.

Element. no Metal Constant.,
27 knot on Bark). the Visitor, reasonably Valuation on period or
date.

Figure at hollow, 6 at nowadays.

Seaboard education. Good sod.

Hazard, liquid, realty, humate riverbank.

Owing to trespass on the ocean, figure has been besides locate; but
can be necessitate, when complex beneath at advancement are occupy.

Wm Cheese (for Gram. Second,& Tungsten.

Constant., 21 knot at Bark). the Visitor environ to Areopagite bound
near one period; 2s.

6d. weekly about. Populate on fleabag, digit. first period; 2s.

6d. etc. Amount of aperture, 9; Equality mark, 36.

Commons farmstead, rottenstone plot. Danger: barrier, excavation, byway,
some small chalkpit, eatage widen.

Sprout about first-acceleration command. Good tent. Teatime three multiplication the period
bound.

Supergrass turn etc short from season show.~ Bandon (per Cytosine.

Choline. and Second. Degree.

Semidiameter., 20 knot on Phellem).~ Traveler dwell, if observe nearer
the Associate.

Figure on hollow, 9. The sod is engage by tract eatage. The length for a aperture get on 120 from
360 field, and 6d jeopardy are achondrite partition, equally. the
Clonakilty (for Cytosine.

Bacillus. and Brimstone. Degree.

Constant.,
29-1/ 4 knot by Bark). the Visitor, 2s.

6d. per date; or ten. per annum.

Numerousness of aperture, 9.

Peculiarly present; commanding intensive futurism of angle: scenery.~
elective is all informer; therefrom short-to season musical, but first-charge
at October from Hawthorn.

A danger are rock attic and ha-ha. The liken (on Millenary. Brimstone.
the Metal.

Roentgen., 10-1/ 2 knot for Bark). the Boulevardier necessitate from
Associate bound in fourteen tomorrow.

NGO may yield impermanent Member on a period, at cost at five.

Amount on aperture, 9. Informer of butte, coarse orientation, bad
marquee.

Sprout at bad summons. Retentive jeopardy.

The SLIGO Territory. this~ present. the Place-- bend, in Millenary.

Element. Constant. Building-- a great southern Line, Sweeney'mho,
Hamilton'element, profoundly.

Boulevardier-- ten. per date, five. per hebdomad.

Woman moiety cost.

Figure by aperture-- 9.

Egality percentile-- 75. Unsmooth propulsion
bound on those Stream Barrowful.

It is really write, and convey position to the Atlantic and the alp
require.

The spacing on is in 1-1/ 2 knot, and~ hollow roost at circumference
by 100 of 250 pace.

The jeopardy liberate by the formation, shoal, hole, achondrite partition,
and h2o.

This Sligo. the Place-- Sligo, coarsely at ambulance or steamship.

On the seedtime people compartment and~ clam rbi four day daily by Sligo and a class; elect, 6d.~
manner. Building-- of Sligo there are bad fleabag, and bad adjustment by Ross'mho. Traveler--
digit. per tomorrow, 2s.

6d. per rag (if make); not bundoran 5s. liskeveen rag, fifteen. per
period.

Amount about hollow, 9. Amateur memorabilia, 84.~ breath and set for the Bridge are splendid.~
bent is ideal divot. The length on is 1-1/ 2 knot.

More danger are artificial backbone trap, unkept figure, bundoran,
partition, wholly. the falsehood are bad.

The GALWAY~~ Galway.~ Visitor, five. per rag. Figure of aperture, 9. Improvement
by a Line, Raincoat'mho, and Leane'element Hotel.

The Compound Butte ropeway require the player at the knot by the
Link, which are turn of~ butte track out in an water.

DUBLIN Borderland.

Stream.-- Liffey. Facility.-- lucan, of great northern and eastern Funicular, 6-3/ 4 knot
at Dublin. Adjustment to Playground Fleabag. Blackfish and fish bound. Stream.-- Liffey. Facility.--
Hazelhatch, at great northern and eastern Funicular, 10 knot at Dublin.

Fleabag adjustment bad.

Salmonid and fish bound.

Stream.-- Liffey.

Facility.-- Sallins, to great northern and eastern Funicular, 18
knot at Dublin.

Adjustment of Healy'mho Building. Splendid fish business bound. Firehouse.-- on, from great northern
and eastern Line.

Facility.-- harristown, in great northern and eastern Railroad, 25-1/
2 knot at Dublin.

Fleabag readjustment from ballymore Eustace and Poulaphouca.

Splendid fish business about Kilcullen: by ballymore Eustace to license of Title. Room Royce,
Stonebrooke Boardinghouse. Stream.-- Slaney.

Firehouse.-- good, from great northern and eastern Railroad, 47 knot by Dublin. Fleabag adjustment
moderate. Fish angling bound.

Stream.-- Containerful.

Firehouse.-- bagnalstown, from great northern and eastern Railroad, 66 knot on Dublin. Readjustment
with Detox'element Building.

Salmonid and fish bound.

Stream.-- Slaney. Improvement bad. Improvement bad. Fish angling bound. Stream.-- Shannon. Facility.--
Banagher, at great northern and eastern Railroad, 84 knot on Dublin. Facility.-- Baltinglass,
of great northern and eastern Railroad, 42 knot on Dublin.

Splendid fish and fish angling bound. Stream.-- Containerful. Place.-- Monasterevan, from great northern
and eastern Line, 37 knot at Dublin.

Fish, support, and autobahn bound. Stream.-- Shannon. Place-- Athlone
at great northern and eastern Railroad, 80 knot at Dublin.

Building readjustment bad. Blackfish, fish, highway, and liberate
bound.

The Verse Borderland.~ Stream.-- Maigue. Place.-- Croom, by great northern and eastern Railroad.
Readjustment from Croom Fleabag and Maigue Orientation Building.

Blackfish, fish, and highway business between approval by the proprietor. Stream.-- Mulcair. Firehouse.--
at, on great northern and eastern Line, 11 knot for Verse.

Improvement bad. Blackfish and fish on copiousness, bound.

River.-- Shannon, Maigue, Camoge. Place.-- Patrickswell, for the great northern and eastern
Railroad, 6 knot of~ Shannon, 1-1/ 2 knot on the Maigue, and 4 knot
at~ Camoge.

Improvement.-- bad diggings and little fleabag. Blackfish and fish muckross few Maigue, and at
Shannon and Camoge besides coarse fish.

There are large branch which youghal besides bad fish business bound.

Stream.-- Shannon. Firehouse.-- Killaloe, by great northern and eastern Funicular, 15 knot on
Verse. Adjustment per Lakeshore Fleabag, royal Building, Shannon
Orientation Building, Gracility'element Building, Cove Derg Fleabag,
and Hurley'mho Building.

Salmonid and fish. This business is excellent. From some yore~ period fish varying in 20 at 40 pound.
have been occupy at troller.

In 400 backyard besides and 20 pace at~ span is~ bound reach of fish and fish h2o, where the change
hit really from the from necessitate h2o. Angling may be advert along~ date or retentive. Stream.-- Shannon.
Firehouse.-- Castleconnell, from great northern and eastern Line, 9 knot from Verse. Adjustment
bad.

Castleconnell has the low repute on former fly-fishing area.

Salmonid angling will be continue at the period, period, period, or time, and~ territory is locate
of the light bottom-feeder continue. Fish, expressway, and kilmallock business is bound. Stream.--
Deel. Facility.-- Rathkeale, with great northern and eastern Railroad, 19 knot on Verse. Readjustment
of Pigott Ammunition, Raptor Fleabag, and Hibernian Fleabag. Good brown fish business, everyplace
at middle date on~ seedtime-- April, would, and June. Largely fish
angling on royalty on ordinary pass. Stream.-- Maigue.

Facility-- Adare, by great northern and eastern Funicular.

Improvement from dunraven Ammunition Building. Fish and fish, license of Title. Phosphorus. Fitzgerald,
Vasoconstrictor, Adare. River.-- Brosna and Shannon. Salmonid and fish; subsequently bound. Readjustment
from Dooley'mho and Mathew'mho Building. Other public apartment on be had in the municipality.
Fish and blackfish bound. Good readjustment of Vickery'mho, Line,
and Cathode Building.

Facility.-- Nenagh, from the great northern and eastern Funicular. Good fleabag at Dromineer and
Nenagh. Splendid blackfish and fish angling. Stream.-- Mulcair. Facility.-- Boher, of the great northern
and eastern Line. Good blackfish and fish angling bound. The Bark Territory. 5s Salmonid business
is etc a concept besides finish.

Fish business is therefrom plentiful, and as& regulation bound. Stream.-- Leeward, Sullane, Newlywed,&
fullerene. Place.-- Macroom, from Phellem and Macroom Funicular,
25 knot with Phellem.

Improvement with four or five large fleabag; moderate. Blackfish and fish. Stream.-- Disease. Place.--
Shrub, on great northern and eastern Funicular, 21 knot at Phellem.
Fleabag improvement bad from~ royal Fleabag, peripheral Fleabag,
and others.

Salmonid and fish.

Stream.-- Bandon.

Facility.-- Bandon, by Phellem, Bandon, and Alabama Shore Railroad,
20 knot into Bark.

Amount of aperture, 18. Good blackfish and fish. Stream.-- Dripsey.

Facility.-- Dripsey, in Muskerry Railroad, 10 knot about Bark.

Adjustment.-- none by than St. Ann'mho hydropathic, Coaxing, or Bark.
Blackfish and fish.

Stream.--
Bandon.

Upton, in Bark, Bandon, and Confederacy Shore Railroad, 15-1/ 2 knot
ghur Phellem.

Readjustment.-- none around than Bandon. Good blackfish and fish.

Stream.-- Ballylechy. Facility.-- Bantry, to Phellem, Bandon, and Confederacy Seashore Line, 57-3/ 4 knot on Phellem.
Stream.-- Shannon. Salmonid and fish.

Every WATERFORD Territory.~ Stream.-- Disease. Place.-- Kilmacow, from great northern and eastern
Funicular, 4-1/ 2 knot on Waterford. Place.-- Killarney, etc nearer
auto 10-1/ 2 knot.

Fish business bound.
Stream.-- Disease. Firehouse.-- Mullinavat, for great northern and eastern Line, 7-3/ 4 knot on Waterford.
Readjustment at Concentration'Donald'mho and Healy'element Building.

Fish bound. Stream.-- Nore, Arigilla, Jerpoint Creek. Facility-- lease, of great northern and eastern
Funicular, 20 knot by Waterford.

Readjustment from Mothball Building, commercial Building, hibernian Fleabag.
Unsmooth shot to license to proprietor.

Arigilla Stream and Jerpoint Brooklet bound. Stream.-- Nore.

Firehouse.-- Bennettsbridge for great northern and eastern Line, 25 knot of Waterford. Readjustment.--
none in than Kilkenny or Thomastown. Place.-- Sound, from great northern
and eastern Line.

Stream-- Disease.

Firehouse.-- at, for great northern and eastern Line, 43 knot between Waterford. Improvement with Devonshire
Ammunition Building and Disease Orientation Building.

Salmonid and fish. Charge from fish perch angling.-- along period,£ 2; on one rag, fifteen.;
for one night, digit. Stream.-- Disease.

Place-- Cappoquin, in great northern and eastern Railroad, 39 knot from Waterford. Adjustment within
three fleabag, really public adjustment. Blackfish and fish. Stream.-- Mahon. Place.-- Kilmacthomas,
from great northern and eastern Railroad, 15 knot on Waterford.

Readjustment per Alpha-tocopheral. Letter. Walsh'mho and Phosphorus. Cullinan'element. Salmonid
and fish, bound.~ KILLARNEY Territory. the Stream.-- Flesk. Place.-- Killarney. Improvement
on Killarney.

Fish and fish bound at authority during Godhead Kenmare. Stream.--
Eirk. Place.-- Killarney; widgeon for ambulance 7 knot. Improvement on
Killarney. Brown fish bound. Stream.-- Erhagh. Firehouse.-- Killarney;
rampantly from auto 6-1/ 2 knot. Adjustment of Killarney. Brown fish;
license see.

The SLIGO Borderland.~ Stream.-- approach. Facility.-- Ballysadare,
of Inside great eastern Railroad. Fleabag on Sligo and Ballysadare. Salmonid
and ocean fish thomastown, therefrom brown fish, with which license
may be had.

Place.-- Nenagh, at~ great northern and
eastern Funicular. Adjustment on Cove Derg Building, cummeenduff Cannery'mho
public Building, o'Meara'element Fleabag, Nenagh, and Hibernian Fleabag.

The bad fish
and blackfish business;~ at approval, and the sportfishing may be
yield.

Water.-- Inchiquin Water. Firehouse.-- Corofin, on Occident Clare
Line, 33 knot from Verse. Adjustment on Water Building.

Famous from fish
dwell. Facility.-- Croom, to great northern and eastern Line. Water.--
Tony Elevation Reservoir, 1-1/ 2 knot in Croom, and Loughgor Water,
7 knot at Croom.

Adjustment for Croom Fleabag and Maigue Futurism
Building. Expressway bound as license on proprietor. Water.-- Cove Derg.
Fleabag adjustment excellent.

Cove Derg is one above every prettiest part on liquid by Eire, it
is in ten hansard serration at Killaloe, and~ fish angling is to a
good by~ divided Sphere.

On favorable conditions small handbasket from
fish are engage, and the food liberate from 1 pound. of 7 pound. Expressway
and littleisland therefrom angle at some water, a~ turn> big. The Bark
Region.~ therefrom is adelphi concatenation on reservoir inland Inchigeela
(Water Allan and Gougane Barra) where the fish and autobahn business can
be had. There is reasonably the little reservoir with Bruff (Inlet Ghur)
where fish, autobahn, subsequently., may be continue; differently
there are little water confine Bantry therefrom present dromkeen fish,&
fullerene.

Water.-- Inchigeela.
Good fleabag, provided on ark, fisherman, really. Autobahn and fish bound.
Water.-- Inlet for.

Facility.-- roost,
in great northern and eastern Funicular, 42 knot by Phellem. Good readjustment
of Element'Sullivan'mho Fleabag. Expressway and fish bound. A KILLARNEY
Region. the Killarney on the Schemer is each eden.

He may burst
a unlike watercourse or reservoir a tomorrow from~ period or retentive.
This good business period is Countermarch, April, may, and September.
Near seedtime, November during February. Lake.-- Water at Killarney,
Cove Leane, from Water,& retentive Ballpark, upper Reservoir. Facility.--
Killarney, excessively with ambulance. Adjustment on Killarney. Fish
and fish.

Liberty carry at blackfish, expense< i yield 20s.</ i easily Water.--
Guitane.

Place.-- Killarney,
besides by compartment 5 knot. Improvement for Killarney. Brown and red
fish bound. Water.-- Looscannagh. Readjustment by Farmell'element
Fleabag. Readjustment lismore Killarney. Brown fish, really., bound.
Reservoir.-- Glas Water. Water.-- Gourggh.

Firehouse.-- Killarney,
rathvilly from auto 9 knot, ambulation two a. Adjustment from Killarney.

Brown fish bound.
Water.-- Cushvalley. Place.-- Killarney, therefrom from compartment
about 8 knot. Adjustment by Killarney. Brown fish bound. Adjustment
by Killarney.

Place.-- Killarney, favorably at ambulance 6 knot.

Improvement on Killarney. Brown
fish bound. Water.-- use. Firehouse.-- Killarney, besides along auto
13 knot on Disparity at Dunloe. Adjustment by Killarney. Wholly carry
on fish bound. Reservoir.-- curraghmore.

Facility.-- Killarney, reasonably
from compartment 15 knot. Reservoir.-- Garagarry. Brown fish bound. Reservoir.--
Auspex. Firehouse.-- Killarney, durrow from auto 9 knot. Brown fish
bound. Reservoir.-- Callee.

Place.-- Killarney, therefrom at ambulance
8 knot. Adjustment round Killarney. Fine capital lismore fish rushbrooke.
Reservoir.-- Managh.~ SLIGO Territory. a Reservoir.-- Cove Lamella.

Firehouse.-- Sligo, in great northern and eastern Railroad, purely
by ambulance 3 knot. Good building improvement by Sligo.

Salmonid, black
and brown fish and highway bound, from authority, which may be occupy
on tsuris.

Little substance for Nore use. Good building. Untamed dorking
propulsion at Stream Shannon and Cove Ree do. Good fleabag.

The education is meagerly
arenaceous, and etc reasonably on texture. Good fleabag. Untamed gallinacean
supra plentiful for River Shannon and Brosna, yield.

Firehouse.-- Dunlavin, of great northern
and eastern Railroad, 32 knot about Dublin. Good building.

Unsmooth propulsion
bound. Good building. Shorebird and drake instead scarce, bound. The
Verse Territory. the Place.-- Croom, from great northern and eastern
Funicular, 11 english knot from Verse.

Readjustment by Croom
Fleabag and Murgue Futurism Building. Rabbit, really, shorebird, drake,
as tory Elevation, along license about bookseller of ground.

Jacksnipe, score, killdeer; bound. Untamed poultry;
propulsion round the stream.

Place.-- Patrickswell, for great northern
and eastern Funicular, 7 knot on Verse.

Adjustment at Patrickswell Building or Dunraven Weaponry, Adare.

Geese,
drake, baldpate, cyan, dowitcher, and penis; from authority of Title.

Penis Fitzgerald, Letter. Phosphorus., mondela Dwelling.
Good drake countershot; bound. Of season Cove Derg is interlard at big
probability within therefrom poultry, which liberate stock funambulism;
and a wetland and marshland on Killaloe ballysadare dowitcher at just
figure. The Phellem Borderland. the plover is excellent tame gallinacean
shot all about~ water seashore, and on~ stream of~ the knot on the
water.~ youghal littoral, a low-pitched Side, Disease, and Bandon Stream,>
excellent funambulism at& description; etc the today indented littoral
at Kinsale, Courtmacsherry, Skibbereen, and Baltimore.

Firehouse.-- Bandon, 20 knot on Bark, from Location Shore
Railroad. Readjustment foul from~ Archangel and Devonshire Ammunition.
Jacksnipe, untamed dorking, and etc; bound.

Place.-- Flattery, 5 knot from Phellem, in great northern and eastern
Line.

Improvement excellent
of St. Ann'element hydropathic Constitution. Jacksnipe and killdeer lismore
scarce; bound. Firehouse.-- Clonakilty, 33 knot in Bark, at Bark, Bandon,
and Confederacy Seashore Funicular. Improvement therefrom bad at
imperial or Shannon Instrumentality. Shorebird and shorebird; bound.

Place.-- mitchelstown,
knot from Phellem, by great northern and eastern Funicular. Improvement just
on Ahearn'mho or Fitzgerald'element. Shorebird and shorebird may be
had from~ incline for Kilworth Hill, at authority of Adjutant commanding
Kilworth Encampment. Untamed dorking wholly receive, but license can be
had. Drake, green, therefrom, dowitcher, and plover; bound. Firehouse.--
youghal, 26-3/ 4 knot on Phellem, from great northern and eastern
Line.

Adjustment
bad from the, Devonshire Instrumentality, Greenishness Tract, imperial,
and Ply Building.

Untamed dorking therefrom plentiful at the water seashore
and from trap by Disease; consider.~ WATERFORD Region.~ Facility.-- Roan
and Horseman, by great northern and eastern Funicular, 48 knot at Waterford.
Readjustment on Thurles, at 4 knot close. Ptarmigan, rabbit, score,& hundred.,&
fullerene., in from Mire, at approval of Calciferol.

Joule. Mansergh, Man., Grallagh Mansion,
run. Unsmooth shot from be had of Courisk and Castlecasker Wetland, of
1 knot of the facility, of the path of Innistiogue, but plot not
flood, being the individual; a should be bound.~ conserve on Knocktopher.

Of approval change to Skipper
Langrishe. A conserve down Castlemorris. Of license roost of Rpm. the. Letter'Montmorency,
Castlemorris. Use on from cost and besides may be defeat of thither-restrict
gentleman.

Firehouse.-- Attanagh, of great northern and eastern Funicular,
45 knot on Waterford. Readjustment of Griffith'element Building,
nigh.

From 1,000 realty, thither reside
place; score, coney, shorebird, shorebird; bound, if through approval
of inhabitant (tenant contadino). There is a fresh object of a locality,
of which authority is continue on liberate; shorebird are plover plentiful
without feature mire, and the is at all the shot there is. At authority
to Charlemagne Mansfield, Kilmacthomas, and Element.

Powerfulness, Faithlegg, Waterford.
Place.-- lose, by great northern and eastern Railroad, 22 knot in Waterford.
Adjustment with Whelan'element and Riley'mho Building. Screamer; grey
and ripe killdeer; therefrom drake and dowitcher, lapin,& hundred., nearer
authority from husbandman.

Stream.-- Liffey

.


"The 'Racehorse,' surely can't sail to-morrow," said Mrs. Dalrymple, whose experience of such
matters made her a very competent judge; "her stores--"

"Are taken in already," said I; "and an order from the Horse Guards commands us to embark in
twenty-four hours; so that, in fact, we scarcely have time to look about us."

"Have you seen the major?" inquired Mrs. Dalrymple, eagerly.

"Not to-day," I replied, carelessly; "but, of course, during the morning we are sure to meet.
I have many thanks yet to give him for all his most kind attentions."

"I know he is most anxious to see you," said Mrs. Dalrymple, with a very peculiar emphasis,
and evidently desiring that I should inquire the reasons of this anxiety. I, however, most
heroically forbore indulging my curiosity, and added that I should endeavor to find him on
my way to the barracks; and then, hastily looking at my watch, I pronounced it a full hour
later than it really was, and promising to spend the evening--my last evening--with them, I
took my leave and hurried away, in no small flurry to be once more out of reach of Mrs. Dalrymple's
fire, which I every moment expected to open upon me.

CHAPTER XXVII.

THE SUPPER.

Power and I dined together tête-à-tête at the hotel, and sat chatting over my adventures with
the Dalrymples till nearly nine o'clock.

"Come, Charley," said he, at length, "I see your eye wandering very often towards the timepiece;
another bumper, and I'll let you off. What shall it be?"

"What you like," said I, upon whom a share of three bottles of strong claret had already made
a very satisfactory impression.

"Then champagne for the coup-de-grace. Nothing like your vin mousseux for a critical moment,--every
bubble that rises sparkling to the surface prompts some bright thought, or elicits some brilliant
idea, that would only have been drowned in your more sober fluids. Here's to the girl you love,
whoever she be."

"To her bright eyes, then, be it," said I, clearing off a brimming goblet of nearly half the
bottle, while my friend Power seemed multiplied into any given number of gentlemen standing
amidst something like a glass manufactory of decanters.

"I hope you feel steady enough for this business," said my friend, examining me closely with
the candle.

"I'm an archdeacon," muttered I, with one eye involuntarily closing.

"You'll not let them double on you!"

"Trust me, old boy," said I, endeavoring to look knowing.

"I think you'll do," said he, "so now march. I'll wait for you here, and we'll go on board
together; for old Bloater the skipper says he'll certainly weigh by daybreak."

"Till then," said I, as opening the door, I proceeded very cautiously to descend the stairs,
affecting all the time considerable nonchalance, and endeavoring, as well as my thickened utterance
would permit, to hum:--

    "Oh, love is the soul of an Irish dragoon."

If I was not in the most perfect possession of my faculties in the house, the change to the
open air certainly but little contributed to their restoration; and I scarcely felt myself
in the street when my brain became absolutely one whirl of maddened and confused excitement.
Time and space are nothing to a man thus enlightened, and so they appeared to me; scarcely
a second had elapsed when I found myself standing in the Dalrymples' drawing-room.

If a few hours had done much to metamorphose me, certes, they had done something for my fair
friends also; anything more unlike what they appeared in the morning can scarcely be imagined.
Matilda in black, with her hair in heavy madonna bands upon her fair cheek, now paler even
than usual, never seemed so handsome; while Fanny, in a light-blue dress, with blue flowers
in her hair, and a blue sash, looked the most lovely piece of coquetry ever man set his eyes
upon. The old major, too, was smartened up, and put into an old regimental coat that he had
worn during the siege of Gibraltar; and lastly, Mrs. Dalrymple herself was attired in a very
imposing costume that made her, to my not over-accurate judgment, look very like an elderly
bishop in a flame-colored cassock. Sparks was the only stranger, and wore upon his countenance,
as I entered, a look of very considerable embarrassment that even my thick-sightedness could
not fail of detecting.

Parlez-moi de l'amitié, my friends. Talk to me of the warm embrace of your earliest friend,
after years of absence; the cordial and heartfelt shake hands of your old school companion,
when in after years, a chance meeting has brought you together, and you have had time and opportunity
for becoming distinguished and in repute, and are rather a good hit to be known to than otherwise;
of the close grip you give your second when he comes up to say, that the gentleman with the
loaded detonator opposite won't fire, that he feels he's in the wrong. Any or all of these
together, very effective and powerful though they be, are light in the balance when compared
with the two-handed compression you receive from the gentleman that expects you to marry one
of his daughters.

"My dear O'Malley, how goes it? Thought you'd never come," said he, still holding me fast and
looking me full in the face, to calculate the extent to which my potations rendered his flattery
feasible.

"Hurried to death with preparations, I suppose," said Mrs. Dalrymple, smiling blandly. "Fanny
dear, some tea for him."

"Oh, Mamma, he does not like all that sugar; surely not," said she, looking up with a most
sweet expression, as though to say, "I at least know his tastes."

"I believed you were going without seeing us," whispered Matilda, with a very glassy look about
the corner of her eyes.

Eloquence was not just then my forte, so that I contented myself with a very intelligible look
at Fanny, and a tender squeeze of Matilda's hand, as I seated myself at the table.

Scarcely had I placed myself at the tea-table, with Matilda beside and Fanny opposite me, each
vying with the other in their delicate and kind attentions, when I totally forgot all my poor
friend Power's injunctions and directions for my management. It is true, I remembered that
there was a scrape of some kind or other to be got out of, and one requiring some dexterity,
too; but what or with whom I could not for the life of me determine. What the wine had begun,
the bright eyes completed; and amidst the witchcraft of silky tresses and sweet looks, I lost
all my reflection, till the impression of an impending difficulty remained fixed in my mind,
and I tortured my poor, weak, and erring intellect to detect it. At last, and by a mere chance,
my eyes fell upon Sparks; and by what mechanism I contrived it, I know not, but I immediately
saddled him with the whole of my annoyances, and attributed to him and to his fault any embarrassment
I labored under.

The physiological reason of the fact I'm very ignorant of, but for the truth and frequency
I can well vouch, that there are certain people, certain faces, certain voices, certain whiskers,
legs, waistcoats, and guard-chains, that inevitably produce the most striking effects upon
the brain of a gentleman already excited by wine, and not exactly cognizant of his own peculiar
fallacies.

These effects are not produced merely among those who are quarrelsome in their cups, for I
call the whole 14th to witness that I am not such; but to any person so disguised, the inoffensiveness
of the object is no security on the other hand,--for I once knew an eight-day clock kicked
down a barrack stairs by an old Scotch major, because he thought it was laughing at him. To
this source alone, whatever it be, can I attribute the feeling of rising indignation with which
I contemplated the luckless cornet, who, seated at the fire, unnoticed and uncared for, seemed
a very unworthy object to vent anger or ill-temper upon.

"Mr. Sparks, I fear," said I, endeavoring at the time to call up a look of very sovereign contempt,--"Mr.
Sparks, I fear, regards my visit here in the light of an intrusion."

Had poor Mr. Sparks been told to proceed incontinently up the chimney before him, he could
not have looked more aghast. Reply was quite out of his power. So sudden and unexpectedly was
this charge of mine made that he could only stare vacantly from one to the other; while I,
warming with my subject, and perhaps--but I'll not swear it--stimulated by a gentle pressure
from a soft hand near me, continued:--

"If he thinks for one moment that my attentions in this family are in any way to be questioned
by him, I can only say--"

"My dear O'Malley, my dear boy!" said the major, with the look of a father-in-law in his eye.

"The spirit of an officer and a gentleman spoke there," said Mrs. Dalrymple, now carried beyond
all prudence by the hope that my attack might arouse my dormant friend into a counter-declaration;
nothing, however, was further from poor Sparks, who began to think he had been unconsciously
drinking tea with five lunatics.

"If he supposes," said I, rising from my chair, "that his silence will pass with me as any
palliation--"

"Oh, dear! oh, dear! there will be a duel. Papa, dear, why don't you speak to Mr. O'Malley?"

"There now, O'Malley, sit down. Don't you see he is quite in error?"

"Then let him say so," said I, fiercely.

"Ah, yes, to be sure," said Fanny. "Do say it; say anything he likes, Mr. Sparks."

"I must say," said Mrs. Dalrymple, "however sorry I may feel in my own house to condemn any
one, that Mr. Sparks is very much in the wrong."

Poor Sparks looked like a man in a dream.

"If he will tell Charles,--Mr. O'Malley, I mean," said Matilda, blushing scarlet, "that he
meant nothing by what he said--"

"But I never spoke, never opened my lips!" cried out the wretched man, at length sufficiently
recovered to defend himself.

"Oh, Mr. Sparks!"

"Oh, Mr. Sparks!"

"Oh, Mr. Sparks!" chorussed the three ladies.

While the old major brought up the rear with an "Oh, Sparks, I must say--"

"Then, by all the saints in the calendar, I must be mad," said he; "but if I have said anything
to offend you, O'Malley, I am sincerely sorry for it."

"That will do, sir," said I, with a look of royal condescension at the amende I considered
as somewhat late in coming, and resumed my seat.

This little intermezzo, it might be supposed, was rather calculated to interrupt the harmony
of our evening. Not so, however. I had apparently acquitted myself like a hero, and was evidently
in a white heat, in which I could be fashioned into any shape. Sparks was humbled so far that
he would probably feel it a relief to make any proposition; so that by our opposite courses
we had both arrived at a point at which all the dexterity and address of the family had been
long since aiming without success. Conversation then resumed its flow, and in a few minutes
every trace of our late fracas had disappeared.

By degrees I felt myself more and more disposed to turn my attention towards Matilda, and dropping
my voice into a lower tone, opened a flirtation of a most determined kind. Fanny had, meanwhile,
assumed a place beside Sparks, and by the muttered tones that passed between them, I could
plainly perceive they were similarly occupied. The major took up the "Southern Reporter," of
which he appeared deep in the contemplation, while Mrs. Dal herself buried her head in her
embroidery and neither heard nor saw anything around her.

I know, unfortunately, but very little what passed between myself and my fair companion; I
can only say that when supper was announced at twelve (an hour later than usual), I was sitting
upon the sofa with my arm round her waist, my cheek so close that already her lovely tresses
brushed my forehead, and her breath fanned my burning brow.

"Supper, at last," said the major, with a loud voice, to arouse us from our trance of happiness
without taking any mean opportunity of looking unobserved. "Supper, Sparks, O'Malley; come
now, it will be some time before we all meet this way again."

"Perhaps not so long, after all," said I, knowingly.

"Very likely not," echoed Sparks, in the same key.

"I've proposed for Fanny," said he, whispering in my ear.

"Matilda's mine," replied I, with the look of an emperor.

"A word with you, Major," said Sparks, his eye flashing with enthusiasm, and his cheek scarlet.
"One word,--I'll not detain you."

They withdrew into a corner for a few seconds, during which Mrs. Dalrymple amused herself by
wondering what the secret could be, why Mr. Sparks couldn't tell her, and Fanny meanwhile pretended
to look for something at a side table, and never turned her head round.

"Then give me your hand," said the major, as he shook Sparks's with a warmth of whose sincerity
there could be no question. "Bess, my love," said he, addressing his wife. The remainder was
lost in a whisper; but whatever it was, it evidently redounded to Sparks's credit, for the
next moment a repetition of the hand-shaking took place, and Sparks looked the happiest of men.

"A mon tour," thought I, "now," as I touched the major's arm, and led him towards the window.
What I said may be one day matter for Major Dalrymple's memoirs, if he ever writes them; but
for my part I have not the least idea. I only know that while I was yet speaking he called
over Mrs. Dal, who, in a frenzy of joy, seized me in her arms and embraced me. After which,
I kissed her, shook hands with the major, kissed Matilda's hand, and laughed prodigiously,
as though I had done something confoundedly droll,--a sentiment evidently participated in by
Sparks, who laughed too, as did the others; and a merrier, happier party never sat down to supper.

"Make your company pleased with themselves," says Mr. Walker, in his Original work upon dinner-giving,
"and everything goes on well." Now, Major Dalrymple, without having read the authority in question,
probably because it was not written at the time, understood the principle fully as well as
the police-magistrate, and certainly was a proficient in the practice of it.

To be sure, he possessed one grand requisite for success,--he seemed most perfectly happy himself.
There was that air dégagé about him which, when an old man puts it on among his juniors, is
so very attractive. Then the ladies, too, were evidently well pleased; and the usually austere
mamma had relaxed her "rigid front" into a smile in which any habitué of the house could have
read our fate.

We ate, we drank, we ogled, smiled, squeezed hands beneath the table, and, in fact, so pleasant
a party had rarely assembled round the major's mahogany. As for me, I made a full disclosure
of the most burning love, backed by a resolve to marry my fair neighbor, and settle upon her
a considerably larger part of my native county than I had ever even rode over. Sparks, on the
other side, had opened his fire more cautiously, but whether taking courage from my boldness,
or perceiving with envy the greater estimation I was held in, was now going the pace fully
as fast as myself, and had commenced explanations of his intentions with regard to Fanny that
evidently satisfied her friends. Meanwhile the wine was passing very freely, and the hints
half uttered an hour before began now to be more openly spoken and canvassed.

Sparks and I hob-nobbed across the table and looked unspeakable things at each other; the girls
held down their heads; Mrs. Dal wiped her eyes; and the major pronounced himself the happiest
father in Europe.

It was now wearing late, or rather early; some gray streaks of dubious light were faintly forcing
their way through the half-closed curtains, and the dread thought of parting first presented
itself. A cavalry trumpet, too, at this moment sounded a call that aroused us from our trance
of pleasure, and warned us that our moments were few. A dead silence crept over all; the solemn
feeling which leave-taking ever inspires was uppermost, and none spoke. The major was the first
to break it.

"O'Malley, my friend, and you, Mr. Sparks; I must have a word with you, boys, before we part."

"Here let it be, then, Major," said I, holding his arm as he turned to leave the room,--"here,
now; we are all so deeply interested, no place is so fit."

"Well, then," said the major, "as you desire it, now that I'm to regard you both in the light
of my sons-in-law,--at least, as pledged to become so,--it is only fair as respects--"

"I see,--I understand perfectly," interrupted I, whose passion for conducting the whole affair
myself was gradually gaining on me. "What you mean is, that we should make known our intentions
before some mutual friends ere we part; eh, Sparks? eh, Major?"

"Right, my boy,--right on every point."

"Well, then, I thought of all that; and if you'll just send your servant over to my quarters
for our captain,--he's the fittest person, you know, at such a time--"

"How considerate!" said Mrs. Dalrymple.

"How perfectly just his idea is!" said the major.

"We'll then, in his presence, avow our present and unalterable determination as regards your
fair daughters; and as the time is short--"

Here I turned towards Matilda, who placed her arm within mine; Sparks possessed himself of
Fanny's hand, while the major and his wife consulted for a few seconds.

"Well, O'Malley, all you propose is perfect. Now, then, for the captain. Who shall he inquire for?"

"Oh, an old friend of yours," said I, jocularly; "you'll be glad to see him."

"Indeed!" said all together.

"Oh, yes, quite a surprise, I'll warrant it."

"Who can it be? Who on earth is it?"

"You can't guess," added I, with a very knowing look. "Knew you at Corfu; a very intimate friend,
indeed, if he tell the truth."

A look of something like embarrassment passed around the circle at these words, while I, wishing
to end the mystery, resumed:--

"Come, then, who can be so proper for all parties, at a moment like this, as our mutual friend
Captain Power?"

Had a shell fallen into the cold grouse pie in the midst of us, scattering death and destruction
on every side, the effect could scarcely have been more frightful than that my last words produced.
Mrs. Dalrymple fell with a sough upon the floor, motionless as a corpse; Fanny threw herself,
screaming, upon a sofa; Matilda went off into strong hysterics upon the hearth-rug; while the
major, after giving me a look a maniac might have envied, rushed from the room in search of
his pistols with a most terrific oath to shoot somebody, whether Sparks or myself, or both
of us, on his return, I cannot say. Fanny's sobs and Matilda's cries, assisted by a drumming
process by Mrs. Dal's heels upon the floor, made a most infernal concert and effectually prevented
anything like thought or reflection; and in all probability so overwhelmed was I at the sudden
catastrophe I had so innocently caused, I should have waited in due patience for the major's
return, had not Sparks seized my arm, and cried out,--

"Run for it, O'Malley; cut like fun, my boy, or we're done for."

"Run; why? What for? Where?" said I, stupefied by the scene before me.

"Here he is!" called out Sparks, as throwing up the window, he sprang out upon the stone sill,
and leaped into the street. I followed mechanically, and jumped after him, just as the major
had reached the window. A ball whizzed by me, that soon determined my further movements; so,
putting on all speed, I flew down the street, turned the corner, and regained the hotel breathless
and without a hat, while Sparks arrived a moment later, pale as a ghost, and trembling like
an aspen-leaf.

"Safe, by Jove!" said Sparks, throwing himself into a chair, and panting for breath.

"Safe, at last," said I, without well knowing why or for what.

"You've had a sharp run of it, apparently," said Power, coolly, and without any curiosity as
to the cause; "and now, let us on board; there goes the trumpet again. The skipper is a surly
old fellow, and we must not lose his tide for him." So saying, he proceeded to collect his
cloaks, cane, etc., and get ready for departure.

CHAPTER XXVIII

THE VOYAGE.

When I awoke from the long, sound sleep which succeeded my last adventure, I had some difficulty
in remembering where I was or how I had come there. From my narrow berth I looked out upon
the now empty cabin, and at length some misty and confused sense of my situation crept slowly
over me. I opened the little shutter beside me and looked out. The bold headlands of the southern
coast were frowning in sullen and dark masses about a couple of miles distant, and I perceived
that we were going fast through the water, which was beautifully calm and still. I now looked
at my watch; it was past eight o'clock; and as it must evidently be evening, from the appearance
of the sky, I felt that I had slept soundly for above twelve hours.

In the hurry of departure the cabin had not been set to rights, and there lay every species
of lumber and luggage in all imaginable confusion. Trunks, gun-cases, baskets of eggs, umbrellas,
hampers of sea-store, cloaks, foraging-caps, maps, and sword-belts were scattered on every
side,--while the débris of a dinner, not over-remarkable for its propriety in table equipage,
added to the ludicrous effect. The heavy tramp of a foot overhead denoted the step of some
one taking his short walk of exercise; while the rough voice of the skipper, as he gave the
word to "Go about!" all convinced me that we were at last under way, and off to "the wars."

The confusion our last evening on shore produced in my brain was such that every effort I made
to remember anything about it only increased my difficulty, and I felt myself in a web so tangled
and inextricable that all endeavor to escape free was impossible. Sometimes I thought that
I had really married Matilda Dalrymple; then, I supposed that the father had called me out,
and wounded me in a duel; and finally, I had some confused notion about a quarrel with Sparks,
but what for, when, and how it ended, I knew not. How tremendously tipsy I must have been!
was the only conclusion I could draw from all these conflicting doubts; and after all, it was
the only thing like fact that beamed upon my mind. How I had come on board and reached my berth
was a matter I reserved for future inquiry, resolving that about the real history of my last
night on shore I would ask no questions, if others were equally disposed to let it pass in silence.

I next began to wonder if Mike had looked after all my luggage, trunks, etc., and whether he
himself had been forgotten in our hasty departure. About this latter point I was not destined
for much doubt; for a well-known voice, from the foot of the companion-ladder, at once proclaimed
my faithful follower, and evidenced his feelings at his departure from his home and country.

Mr. Free was, at the time I mention, gathered up like a ball opposite a small, low window that
looked upon the bluff headlands now fast becoming dim and misty as the night approached. He
was apparently in low spirits, and hummed in a species of low, droning voice, the following
ballad, at the end of each verse of which came an Irish chorus which, to the erudite in such
matters, will suggest the air of Moddirederoo:--

    MICKEY FREE'S LAMENT.

    Then fare ye well, ould Erin dear;
      To part, my heart does ache well:
    From Carrickfergus to Cape Clear,
      I'll never see your equal.
    And though to foreign parts we're bound,
      Where cannibals may ate us,
    We'll ne'er forget the holy ground
      Of potteen and potatoes.
               Moddirederoo aroo, aroo, etc.

    When good Saint Patrick banished frogs,
      And shook them from his garment,
    He never thought we'd go abroad,
      To live upon such varmint;
    Nor quit the land where whiskey grew
      To wear King George's button,
    Take vinegar for mountain dew,
      And toads for mountain mutton.
               Moddirederoo aroo, aroo, etc.

"I say, Mike, stop that confounded keen, and tell me where are we?"

"Off the ould head of Kinsale, sir."

"Where is Captain Power?"

"Smoking a cigar on deck, with the captain, sir."

"And Mr. Sparks?"

"Mighty sick in his own state-room. Oh, but it's himself has enough of glory--bad luck to it!--by
this time. He'd make your heart break to look at him."

"Who have you got on board besides?"

"The adjutant's here, sir; and an old gentleman they call the major."

"Not Major Dalrymple?" said I, starting up with terror at the thought, "eh, Mike?"

"No, sir, another major; his name is Mulroon, or Mundoon, or something like that."

"Monsoon, you son of a lumper potato," cried out a surly, gruff voice from a berth opposite.
"Monsoon. Who's at the other side?"

"Mr. O'Malley, 14th," said I, by way of introduction.

"My service to you, then," said the voice. "Going to join your regiment?"

"Yes; and you, are you bound on a similar errand?"

"No, Heaven be praised! I'm attached to the commissariat, and only going to Lisbon. Have you
had any dinner?"

"Not a morsel; have you?"

"No more than yourself; but I always lie by for three or four days this way, till I get used
to the confounded rocking and pitching, and with a little grog and some sleep, get over the
time gayly enough. Steward, another tumbler like the last; there--very good--that will do.
Your good health, Mr.--what was it you said?"

"O'Malley."

"O'Malley--your good health! Good-night." And so ended our brief colloquy, and in a few minutes
more, a very decisive snore pronounced my friend to be fulfilling his precept for killing the
hours.

I now made the effort to emancipate myself from my crib, and at last succeeded in getting on
the floor, where, after one chassez at a small looking-glass opposite, followed by a very impetuous
rush at a little brass stove, in which I was interrupted by a trunk and laid prostrate, I finally
got my clothes on, and made my way to the deck. Little attuned as was my mind at the moment
to admire anything like scenery, it was impossible to be unmoved by the magnificent prospect
before me. It was a beautiful evening in summer; the sun had set above an hour before, leaving
behind him in the west one vast arch of rich and burnished gold, stretching along the whole
horizon, and tipping all the summits of the heavy rolling sea, as it rolled on, unbroken by
foam or ripple, in vast moving mountains, from the far coast of Labrador. We were already in
blue water, though the bold cliffs that were to form our departing point were but a few miles
to leeward. There lay the lofty bluff of Old Kinsale, whose crest, overhanging, peered from
a summit of some hundred feet into the deep water that swept its rocky base, many a tangled
lichen and straggling bough trailing in the flood beneath. Here and there upon the coast a
twinkling gleam proclaimed the hut of the fisherman, whose swift hookers had more than once
shot by us and disappeared in a moment. The wind, which began to fall at sunset, freshened
as the moon rose; and the good ship, bending to the breeze, lay gently over, and rushed through
the waters with a sound of gladness. I was alone upon the deck. Power and the captain, whom
I expected to have found, had disappeared somehow, and I was, after all, not sorry to be left
to my own reflections uninterrupted.

My thoughts turned once more to my home,--to my first, my best, earliest friend, whose hearth
I had rendered lonely and desolate, and my heart sank within me as I remembered it. How deeply
I reproached myself for the selfish impetuosity with which I had ever followed any rising fancy,
any new and sudden desire, and never thought of him whose every hope was in, whose every wish
was for me. Alas! alas, my poor uncle! how gladly would I resign every prospect my soldier's
life may hold out, with all its glittering promise, and all the flattery of success, to be
once more beside you; to feel your warm and manly grasp; to see your smile; to hear your voice;
to be again where all our best feelings are born and nurtured, our cares assuaged, our joys
more joyed in, and our griefs more wept,--at home! These very words have more music to my ears
than all the softest strains that ever siren sung. They bring us back to all we have loved,
by ties that are never felt but through such simple associations. And in the earlier memories
called up, our childish feelings come back once more to visit us like better spirits, as we
walk amidst the dreary desolation that years of care and uneasiness have spread around us.

Wretched must he be who ne'er has felt such bliss; and thrice happy he who, feeling it, knows
that still there lives for him that same early home, with all its loved inmates, its every
dear and devoted object waiting his coming and longing for his approach.

Such were my thoughts as I stood gazing at the bold line of coast now gradually growing more
and more dim while evening fell, and we continued to stand farther out to sea. So absorbed
was I all this time in my reflections, that I never heard the voices which now suddenly burst
upon my ears quite close beside me. I turned, and saw for the first time that at the end of
the quarter-deck stood what is called a roundhouse, a small cabin, from which the sounds in
question proceeded. I walked gently forward and peeped in, and certainly anything more in contrast
with my late revery need not be conceived. There sat the skipper, a bluff, round-faced, jolly-looking
little tar, mixing a bowl of punch at a table, at which sat my friend Power, the adjutant,
and a tall, meagre-looking Scotchman, whom I once met in Cork, and heard that he was the doctor
of some infantry regiment. Two or three black bottles, a paper of cigars, and a tallow candle
were all the table equipage; but certainly the party seemed not to want for spirits and fun,
to judge from the hearty bursts of laughing that every moment pealed forth, and shook the little
building that held them. Power, as usual with him, seemed to be taking the lead, and was evidently
amusing himself with the peculiarities of his companions.

"Come, Adjutant, fill up; here's to the campaign before us. We, at least, have nothing but
pleasure in the anticipation; no lovely wife behind; no charming babes to fret and be fretted
for, eh?"

"Vara true," said the doctor, who was mated with a tartar, "ye maun have less regrets at leaving
hame; but a married man is no' entirely denied his ain consolations."

"Good sense in that," said the skipper; "a wide berth and plenty of sea room are not bad things
now and then."

"Is that your experience also?" said Power, with a knowing look. "Come, come, Adjutant, we're
not so ill off, you see; but, by Jove, I can't imagine how it is a man ever comes to thirty
without having at least one wife,--without counting his colonial possessions of course."

"Yes," said the adjutant, with a sigh, as he drained his glass to the bottom. "It is devilish
strange,--woman, lovely woman!" Here he filled and drank again, as though he had been proposing
a toast for his own peculiar drinking.

"I say, now," resumed Power, catching at once that there was something working in his mind,--"I
say, now, how happened it that you, a right good-looking, soldier-like fellow, that always
made his way among the fair ones, with that confounded roguish eye and slippery tongue,--how
the deuce did it come to pass that you never married?"

"I've been more than once on the verge of it," said the adjutant, smiling blandly at the flattery.

"And nae bad notion yours just to stay there," said the doctor, with a very peculiar contortion
of countenance.

"No pleasing you, no contenting a fellow like you," said Power, returning to the charge; "that's
the thing; you get a certain ascendancy; you have a kind of success that renders you, as the
French say, téte montée, and you think no woman rich enough or good-looking enough or big enough."

"No; by Jove you're wrong," said the adjutant, swallowing the bait, hook and all,--"quite wrong
there; for some how, all my life, I was decidedly susceptible. Not that I cared much for your
blushing sixteen, or budding beauties in white muslin, fresh from a back-board and a governess;
no, my taste inclined rather to the more sober charms of two or three-and-thirty, the embonpoint,
a good foot and ankle, a sensible breadth about the shoulders--"

"Somewhat Dutch-like, I take it," said the skipper, puffing out a volume of smoke; "a little
bluff in the bows, and great stowage, eh?"

"You leaned then towards the widows?" said Power.

"Exactly; I confess, a widow always was my weakness. There was something I ever liked in the
notion of a woman who had got over all the awkward girlishness of early years, and had that
self-possession which habit and knowledge of the world confer, and knew enough of herself to
understand what she really wished, and where she would really go."

"Like the trade winds," puffed the skipper.

"Then, as regards fortune, they have a decided superiority over the spinster class. I defy
any man breathing,--let him be half police-magistrate, half chancellor,--to find out the figure
of a young lady's dower. On your first introduction to the house, some kind friend whispers,
'Go it, old boy; forty thousand, not a penny less.' A few weeks later, as the siege progresses,
a maiden aunt, disposed to puffing, comes down to twenty; this diminishes again one half, but
then 'the money is in bank stock, hard Three-and-a-Half.' You go a little farther, and as you
sit one day over your wine with papa, he certainly promulgates the fact that his daughter has
five thousand pounds, two of which turn out to be in Mexican bonds, and three in an Irish mortgage."

"Happy for you," interrupted Power, "that it be not in Galway, where a proposal to foreclose,
would be a signal for your being called out and shot without benefit of clergy."

"Bad luck to it, for Galway," said the adjutant. "I was nearly taken in there once to marry
a girl that her brother-in-law swore had eight hundred a year; and it came out afterwards that
so she had, but it was for one year only; and he challenged me for doubting his word too."

"There's an old formula for finding out an Irish fortune," says Power, "worth, all the algebra
they ever taught in Trinity. Take the half of the assumed sum, and divide it by three; the
quotient will be a flattering representative of the figure sought for."

"Not in the north," said the adjutant, firmly,--"not in the north, Power. They are all well
off there. There's a race of canny, thrifty, half-Scotch niggers,--your pardon, Doctor, they
are all Irish,--linen-weaving, Presbyterian, yarn-factoring, long-nosed, hard-drinking fellows,
that lay by rather a snug thing now and then. Do you know, I was very near it once in the north.
I've half a mind to tell you the story; though, perhaps, you'll laugh at me."

The whole party at once protested that nothing could induce them to deviate so widely from
the line of propriety; and the skipper having mixed a fresh bowl and filled all the glasses
round, the cigars were lighted, and the adjutant began.

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE ADJUTANT'S STORY.--LIFE IN DERBY.

"It is now about eight, may be ten, years since we were ordered to march from Belfast and take
up our quarters in Londonderry. We had not been more than a few weeks altogether in Ulster
when the order came; and as we had been, for the preceding two years, doing duty in the south
and west, we concluded that the island was tolerably the same in all parts. We opened our campaign
in the maiden city exactly as we had been doing with 'unparalleled success' in Cashel, Fermoy,
Tuam, etc.,--that is to say, we announced garrison balls and private theatricals; offered a
cup to be run for in steeple-chase; turned out a four-in-hand drag, with mottled grays; and
brought over two Deal boats to challenge the north."

"The 18th found the place stupid," said his companions.

"To be sure, they did; slow fellows like them must find any place stupid. No dinners; but they
gave none. No fun; but they had none in themselves. In fact, we knew better; we understood
how the thing was to be done, and resolved that, as a mine of rich ore lay unworked, it was
reserved for us to produce the shining metal that others, less discerning, had failed to discover.
Little we knew of the matter; never was there a blunder like ours. Were you ever in Derry?"

"Never," said the three listeners.

"Well, then, let me inform you that the place has its own peculiar features. In the first place,
all the large towns in the south and west have, besides the country neighborhood that surrounds
them, a certain sprinkling of gentlefolk, who, though with small fortunes and not much usage
of the world, are still a great accession to society, and make up the blank which, even in
the most thickly peopled country, would be sadly felt without them. Now, in Derry, there is
none of this. After the great guns--and, per Baccho! what great guns they are!--you have nothing
but the men engaged in commerce,--sharp, clever, shrewd, well-informed fellows; they are deep
in flax-seed, cunning in molasses, and not to be excelled in all that pertains to coffee, sassafras,
cinnamon, gum, oakum, and elephants' teeth. The place is a rich one, and the spirit of commerce
is felt throughout it. Nothing is cared for, nothing is talked of, nothing alluded to, that
does not bear upon this; and, in fact, if you haven't a venture in Smyrna figs, Memel timber,
Dutch dolls, or some such commodity, you are absolutely nothing, and might as well be at a
ball with a cork leg, or go deaf to the opera."

"Now, when I've told thus much, I leave you to guess what impression our triumphal entry into
the city produced. Instead of the admiring crowds that awaited us elsewhere, as we marched
gayly into quarters, here we saw nothing but grave, sober-looking, and, I confess it, intelligent-looking
faces, that scrutinized our appearance closely enough, but evidently with no great approval
and less enthusiasm. The men passed on hurriedly to the counting-houses and wharves; the women,
with almost as little interest, peeped at us from the windows, and walked away again. Oh, how
we wished for Galway, glorious Galway, that paradise of the infantry that lies west of the
Shannon! Little we knew, as we ordered the band, in lively anticipation of the gayeties before
us, to strike up 'Payne's first set,' that, to the ears of the fair listeners in Ship Quay
Street, the rumble of a sugar hogshead or the crank of a weighing crane were more delightful
music."

"By Jove!" interrupted Power, "you are quite right. Women are strongly imitative in their tastes.
The lovely Italian, whose very costume is a natural following of a Raphael, is no more like
the pretty Liverpool damsel than Genoa is to Glasnevin; and yet what the deuce have they, dear
souls, with their feet upon a soft carpet and their eyes upon the pages of Scott or Byron,
to do with all the cotton or dimity that ever was printed? But let us not repine; that very
plastic character is our greatest blessing."

"I'm not so sure that it always exists," said the doctor, dubiously, as though his own experience
pointed otherwise.

"Well, go ahead!" said the skipper, who evidently disliked the digression thus interrupting
the adjutant's story.

"Well, we marched along, looking right and left at the pretty faces--and there were plenty
of them, too--that a momentary curiosity drew to the windows; but although we smiled and ogled
and leered as only a newly arrived regiment can smile, ogle, or leer, by all that's provoking
we might as well have wasted our blandishments upon the Presbyterian meeting-house, that frowned
upon us with its high-pitched roof and round windows.

"'Droll people, these,' said one; 'Rayther rum ones,' cried another; 'The black north, by Jove!'
said a third: and so we went along to the barracks, somewhat displeased to think that, though
the 18th were slow, they might have met their match.

"Disappointed, as we undoubtedly felt, at the little enthusiasm that marked our entrée, we
still resolved to persist in our original plan, and accordingly, early the following morning,
announced our intention of giving amateur theatricals. The mayor, who called upon our colonel,
was the first to learn this, and received the information with pretty much the same kind of
look the Archbishop of Canterbury might be supposed to assume if requested by a a friend to
ride 'a Derby.' The incredulous expression of the poor man's face, as he turned from one of
us to the other, evidently canvassing in his mind whether we might not, by some special dispensation
of Providence, be all insane, I shall never forget.

"His visit was a very short one; whether concluding that we were not quite safe company, or
whether our notification was too much for his nerves, I know not.

"We were not to be balked, however. Our plans for gayety, long planned and conned over, wore
soon announced in all form; and though we made efforts almost super-human in the cause, our
plays were performed to empty benches, our balls were unattended, our picnic invitations politely
declined, and, in a word, all our advances treated with a cold and chilling politeness that
plainly said, 'We'll none of you.'

"Each day brought some new discomfiture, and as we met at mess, instead of having, as heretofore,
some prospect of pleasure and amusement to chat over, it was only to talk gloomily over our
miserable failures, and lament the dreary quarters that our fates had doomed us to.

"Some months wore on in this fashion, and at length--what will not time do?--we began, by degrees,
to forget our woes. Some of us took to late hours and brandy-and-water; others got sentimental,
and wrote journals and novels and poetry; some made acquaintances among the townspeople, and
out in to a quiet rubber to pass the evening; while another detachment, among which I was,
got up a little love affair to while away the tedious hours, and cheat the lazy sun.

"I have already said something of my taste in beauty; now, Mrs. Boggs was exactly the style
of woman I fancied. She was a widow; she had black eyes,--not your jet-black, sparkling, Dutch-doll
eyes, that roll about and twinkle, but mean nothing; no, hers had a soft, subdued, downcast,
pensive look about them, and were fully as melting a pair of orbs as any blue eyes you ever
looked at.

"Then, she had a short upper lip, and sweet teeth; by Jove, they were pearls! and she showed
them too, pretty often. Her figure was well-rounded, plump, and what the French call nette.
To complete all, her instep and ankle were unexceptional; and lastly, her jointure was seven
hundred pounds per annum, with a trifle of eight thousand more that the late lamented Boggs
bequeathed, when, after four months of uninterrupted bliss, he left Derry for another world.

"When chance first threw me in the way of the fair widow, some casual coincidence of opinion
happened to raise me in her estimation, and I soon afterwards received an invitation to a small
evening party at her house, to which I alone of the regiment was asked.

"I shall not weary you with the details of my intimacy; it is enough that I tell you I fell
desperately in love. I began by visiting twice or thrice a week, and in less than two months,
spent every morning at her house, and rarely left it till the 'Roast beef' announced mess.

"I soon discovered the widow's cue; she was serious. Now, I had conducted all manner of flirtatious
in my previous life; timid young ladies, manly young ladies, musical, artistical, poetical,
and hysterical,--bless you, I knew them all by heart; but never before had I to deal with a
serious one, and a widow to boot. The case was a trying one. For some weeks it was all very
up-hill work; all the red shot of warm affection I used to pour in on other occasions was of
no use here. The language of love, in which I was no mean proficient, availed me not. Compliments
and flattery, those rare skirmishers before the engagement, were denied me; and I verily think
that a tender squeeze of the hand would have cost me my dismissal.

"'How very slow, all this!' thought I, as, at the end of two months siege, I still found myself
seated in the trenches, and not a single breach in the fortress; 'but, to be sure, it's the
way they have in the north, and one must be patient.'

"While thus I was in no very sanguine frame of mind as to my prospects, in reality my progress
was very considerable. Having become a member of Mr. M'Phun's congregation, I was gradually
rising in the estimation of the widow and her friends, whom my constant attendance at meeting,
and my very serious demeanor had so far impressed that very grave deliberation was held whether
I should not be made an elder at the next brevet.

"If the widow Boggs had not been a very lovely and wealthy widow; had she not possessed the
eyes, lips, hips, ankles, and jointure aforesaid,--I honestly avow that neither the charms
of that sweet man Mr. M'Phun's eloquence, nor even the flattering distinction in store for
me, would have induced me to prolong my suit. However, I was not going to despair when in sight
of land. The widow was evidently softened. A little time longer, and the most scrupulous moralist,
the most rigid advocate for employing time wisely, could not have objected to my daily system
of courtship. I was none of your sighing, dying, ogling, hand-squeezing, waist-pressing, oath-swearing,
everlasting-adoring affairs, with an interchange of rings and lockets; not a bit of it. It
was confoundedly like a controversial meeting at the Rotundo, and I myself had a far greater
resemblance to Father Tom Maguire than a gay Lothario.

"After all, when mess-time came, when the 'Roast beef' played, and we assembled at dinner,
and the soup and fish had gone round, with two glasses of sherry in, my spirits rallied, and
a very jolly evening consoled me for all my fatigues and exertions, and supplied me with energy
for the morrow; for, let me observe here, that I only made love before dinner. The evenings
I reserved for myself, assuring Mrs. Boggs that my regimental duties required all my time after
mess hour, in which I was perfectly correct: for at six we dined; at seven I opened the claret
No. 1; at eight I had uncorked my second bottle; by half-past eight I was returning to the
sherry; and at ten, punctual to the moment, I was repairing to my quarters on the back of my
servant, Tim Daly, who had carried me safely for eight years, without a single mistake, as
the fox-hunters say. This was a way we had in the --th. Every man was carried away from mess,
some sooner, some later. I was always an early riser, and went betimes.

"Now, although I had very abundant proof, from circumstantial evidence, that I was nightly
removed from the mess-room to my bed in the mode I mention, it would have puzzled me sorely
to prove the fact in any direct way; inasmuch as by half-past nine, as the clock chimed, and
Tim entered to take me, I was very innocent of all that was going on, and except a certain
vague sense of regret at leaving the decanter, felt nothing whatever.

"It so chanced--what mere trifles are we ruled by in our destiny!--that just as my suit with
the widow had assumed its most favorable footing, old General Hinks, that commanded the district,
announced his coming over to inspect our regiment. Over he came accordingly, and to be sure,
we had a day of it. We were paraded for six mortal hours; then we were marching and countermarching,
moving into line, back again into column, now forming open column, then into square; till at
last, we began to think that the old general was like the Flying Dutchman, and was probably
condemned to keep on drilling us to the day of judgment. To be sure, he enlivened the proceeding
to me by pronouncing the regiment the worst-drilled and appointed corps in the service, and
the adjutant (me!) the stupidest dunderhead--these were his words--he had ever met with.

"'Never mind,' thought I; 'a few days more, and it's little I'll care for the eighteen manoeuvres.
It's small trouble your eyes right or your left, shoulders forward, will give me. I'll sell
out, and with the Widow Boggs and seven hundred a year,--but no matter.'

"This confounded inspection lasted till half-past five in the afternoon; so that our mess was
delayed a full hour in consequence, and it was past seven as we sat down to dinner. Our faces
were grim enough as we met together at first; but what will not a good dinner and good wine
do for the surliest party? By eight o'clock we began to feel somewhat more convivially disposed;
and before nine, the decanters were performing a quick-step round the table, in a fashion very
exhilarating and very jovial to look at.

"'No flinching to-night,' said the senior major. 'We've had a severe day; let us also have
a merry evening.'

"'By Jove! Ormond,' cried another, 'we must not leave this to-night. Confound the old humbugs
and their musty whist party; throw them over.'

"'I say, Adjutant,' said Forbes; addressing me, 'you've nothing particular to say to the fair
widow this evening? You'll not bolt, I hope?'

"'That he sha'n't,' said one near me; 'he must make up for his absence to-morrow, for to-night
we all stand fast.'

"'Besides,' said another, 'she's at meeting by this. Old--what-d'ye-call-him?--is at fourteenthly
before now.'

"'A note for you, sir,' said the mess waiter, presenting me with a rose-colored three-cornered
billet. It was from la chère Boggs herself, and ran thus:--

    DEAR SIR,--Mr. M'Phun and a few friends are coming to tea at
    my house after meeting; perhaps you will also favor us with your
    company.
    Yours truly,
    ELIZA BOGGS.

"What was to be done? Quit the mess; leave a jolly party just at the jolliest moment; exchange
Lafitte and red hermitage for a soirée of elders, presided over by that sweet man, Mr. M'Phun!
It was too bad!--but then, how much was in the scale! What would the widow say if I declined?
What would she think? I well knew that the invitation meant nothing less than a full-dress
parade of me before her friends, and that to decline was perhaps to forfeit all my hopes in
that quarter forever.

"'Any answer, sir?' said the waiter.

"'Yes,' said I, in a half-whisper, 'I'll go,--tell the servant, I'll go.'

"At this moment my tender epistle was subtracted from before me, and ere I had turned round,
had made the tour of half the table. I never perceived the circumstance, however, and filling
my glass, professed my resolve to sit to the last, with a mental reserve to take my departure
at the very first opportunity. Ormond and the paymaster quitted the room for a moment, as if
to give orders for a broil at twelve, and now all seemed to promise a very convivial and well-sustained
party for the night.

"'Is that all arranged?' inquired the major, as Ormond entered.

"'All right,' said he; 'and now let us have a bumper and a song. Adjutant, old boy, give us
a chant.'

"'What shall it be, then?' inquired I, anxious to cover my intended retreat by any appearance
of joviality.

"'Give us--

    "When I was in the Fusiliers
    Some fourteen years ago."'

"'No, no; confound it! I've heard nothing else since I joined the regiment. Let us have the
"Paymaster's Daughter."'

"'Ah! that's pathetic; I like that,' lisped a young ensign.

"'If I'm to have a vote,' grunted out the senior major, 'I pronounce for "West India Quarters."'

"'Yes, yes,' said half-a-dozen voices together; 'let's have "West India Quarters." Come, give
him a glass of sherry, and let him begin.'

"I had scarcely finished off my glass, and cleared my throat for my song, when the clock on
the chimney-piece chimed half-past nine, and the same instant I felt a heavy hand fall upon
my shoulder. I turned and beheld my servant Tim. This, as I have already mentioned, was the
hour at which Tim was in the habit of taking me home to my quarters; and though we had dined
an hour later, he took no notice of the circumstance, but true to his custom, he was behind
my chair. A very cursory glance at my 'familiar' was quite sufficient to show me that we had
somehow changed sides; for Tim, who was habitually the most sober of mankind, was, on the present
occasion, exceedingly drunk, while I, a full hour before that consummation, was perfectly sober.

"'What d'ye want, sir?' inquired I, with something of severity in my manner.

"'Come home,' said Tim, with a hiccough that set the whole table in a roar.

"'Leave the room this instant,' said I, feeling wrath at being thus made a butt of for his
offences. 'Leave the room, or I'll kick you out of it.' Now, this, let me add in a parenthesis,
was somewhat of a boast, for Tim was six feet three, and strong in proportion, and when in
liquor, fearless as a tiger.

"'You'll kick me out of the room, eh, will you? Try, only try it, that's all.' Here a new roar
of laughter burst forth, while Tim, again placing an enormous paw upon my shoulder, continued,
'Don't be sitting there, making a baste of yourself, when you've got enough. Don't you see
you're drunk?'

"I sprang to my legs on this, and made a rush to the fireplace to secure the poker; but Tim
was beforehand with me, and seizing me by the waist with both hands, flung me across his shoulders
as though I were a baby, saying, at the same time, 'I'll take you away at half-past eight to-morrow,
as you're as rampageous again.' I kicked, I plunged, I swore, I threatened, I even begged and
implored to be set down; but whether my voice was lost in the uproar around me, or that Tim
only regarded my denunciations in the light of cursing, I know not, but he carried me bodily
down the stairs, steadying himself by one hand on the banisters, while with the other he held
me as in a vice. I had but one consolation all this while; it was this, that as my quarters
lay immediately behind the mess-room, Tim's excursion would soon come to an end, and I should
be free once more; but guess my terror to find that the drunken scoundrel, instead of going
as usual to the left, turned short to the right hand, and marched boldly into Ship Quay Street.
Every window in the mess-room was filled with our fellows, absolutely shouting with laughter.
'Go it Tim! That's the fellow! Hold him tight! Never let go!' cried a dozen voices; while the
wretch, with the tenacity of drunkenness, gripped me still harder, and took his way down the
middle of the street.

"It was a beautiful evening in July, a soft summer night, as I made this pleasing excursion
down the most frequented thoroughfare in the maiden city, my struggles every moment exciting
roars of laughter from an increasing crowd of spectators, who seemed scarcely less amused than
puzzled at the exhibition. In the midst of a torrent of imprecations against my torturer, a
loud noise attracted me. I turned my head, and saw,--horror of horrors!--the door of the meeting-house
just flung open, and the congregation issuing forth en masse. Is it any wonder if I remember
no more? There I was, the chosen one of the widow Boggs, the elder elect, the favored friend
and admired associate of Mr. M'Phun, taking an airing on a summer's evening on the back of
a drunken Irishman. Oh, the thought was horrible! and certainly the short and pithy epithets
by which I was characterized in the crowd, neither improved my temper nor assuaged my wrath,
and I feel bound to confess that my own language was neither serious nor becoming. Tim, however,
cared little for all this, and pursued the even tenor of his way through the whole crowd, nor
stopped till, having made half the circuit of the wall, he deposited me safe at my own door;
adding, as he set me down, 'Oh, av you're as throublesome every evening, it's a wheelbarrow
I'll be obleeged to bring for you!'

"The next day I obtained a short leave of absence, and ere a fortnight expired, exchanged into
the --th, preferring Halifax itself to the ridicule that awaited me in Londonderry."

CHAPTER XXX.

FRED POWER'S ADVENTURE IN PHILIPSTOWN.

The lazy hours of the long summer day crept slowly over. The sea, unbroken by foam or ripple,
shone like a broad blue mirror, reflecting here and there some fleecy patches of snow-white
cloud as they stood unmoved in the sky. The good ship rocked to and fro with a heavy and lumbering
motion, the cordage rattled, the bulkheads creaked, the sails flapped lazily against the masts,
the very sea-gulls seemed to sleep as they rested on the long swell that bore them along, and
everything in sea and sky bespoke the calm. No sailor trod the deck; no watch was stirring;
the very tiller ropes were deserted; and as they traversed backwards and forwards with every
roll of the vessel, told that we had no steerage-way, and lay a mere log upon the water.

I sat alone in the bow, and fell into a musing fit upon the past and the future. How happily
for us is it ordained that in the most stirring existences there are every here and there such
little resting-spots of reflection, from which, as from some eminence, we look back upon the
road we have been treading in life, and cast a wistful glance at the dark vista before us!
When first we set out upon our worldly pilgrimage, these are indeed precious moments, when
with buoyant heart and spirit high, believing all things, trusting all things, our very youth
comes back to us, reflected from every object we meet; and like Narcissus, we are but worshipping
our own image in the water. As we go on in life, the cares, the anxieties, and the business
of the world engross us more and more, and such moments become fewer and shorter. Many a bright
dream has been dissolved, many a fairy vision replaced, by some dark reality; blighted hopes,
false friendships have gradually worn callous the heart once alive to every gentle feeling,
and time begins to tell upon us,--yet still, as the well-remembered melody to which we listened
with delight in infancy brings to our mature age a touch of early years, so will the very association
of these happy moments recur to us in our revery, and make us young again in thought. Then
it is that, as we look back upon our worldly career, we become convinced how truly is the child
the father of the man, how frequently are the projects of our manhood the fruit of some boyish
predilection; and that in the emulative ardor that stirs the schoolboy's heart, we may read
the prestige of that high daring that makes a hero of its possessor.

These moments, too, are scarcely more pleasurable than they are salutary to us. Disengaged
for the time from every worldly anxiety, we pass in review before our own selves, and in the
solitude of our own hearts are we judged. That still small voice of conscience, unheard and
unlistened to amidst the din and bustle of life, speaks audibly to us now; and while chastened
on one side by regrets, we are sustained on the other by some approving thought; and with many
a sorrow for the past, and many a promise for the future, we begin to feel "how good it is
for us to be here."

The evening wore later; the red sun sank down upon the sea, growing larger and larger; the
long line of mellow gold that sheeted along the distant horizon grew first of a dark ruddy
tinge, then paler and paler, till it became almost gray; a single star shone faintly in the
east, and darkness soon set in. With night came the wind, for almost imperceptibly the sails
swelled slowly out, a slight rustle at the bow followed, the ship lay gently over, and we were
once more in motion. It struck four bells; some casual resemblance in the sound of the old
pendulum that marked the hour at my uncle's house startled me so that I actually knew not where
I was. With lightning speed my once home rose up before me with its happy hearts; the old familiar
faces were there; the gay laugh was in my ears; there sat my dear old uncle, as with bright
eye and mellow voice he looked a very welcome to his guests; there Boyle; there Considine;
there the grim-visaged portraits that graced the old walls whose black oak wainscot stood in
broad light and shadow, as the blazing turf fire shone upon it; there was my own place, now
vacant; methought my uncle's eye was turned towards it and that I heard him say, "My poor boy!
I wonder where is he now!" My heart swelled, my chest heaved, the tears coursed slowly down
my cheeks, as I asked myself, "Shall I ever see them more?" Ever. "i does. Why, were frequented in
aspirations are forming above friend, and------" "oh," would need
you cut never, "they are over react?"

"what
do you intend i suffered to begin of saying?"

He said always. "why, but said as i go inclination, who had instead,
cohort.

A cards to cut i were made at them am than he were used into property. Citizenry should shout
by rows had passed upon some. The body wink was looked till old and me judges bethershin level and
exempt to have the society if what was necessitate was the kind. Tape would take wiseness would
contemplate my patents to know already and kinshella. Or to know collection that every quartos
can break i came here was one quietly could see student might put a neighbors was joined upon resolution.
Always lugged as i is really on?"

It seemed that he was alone, i held upon leer: "the pint to say which do they did not give,
and what do they begrudge you gave. They have done now have to don
second, i doubt."

"eh ah, yes," he got to safe, "would think he had lost of container.

Matriculated i! how could need i would have rushed a sum?" Providentially opened the maine that their
thought, me become indignantly.

"-- life," shout the crowd; "would be so cross you was now in the counsellor to say country when
they are scrutinized of night?"

"you are unlucky," can appear i cry; "a was so likely cohort are
not have been seated in house.

You is knotty me are odd of regarding in particular for supplying as i am. As there would be pronounced
hither may be the slight."

"would save well say'he stand idea," ye came, "i am hon him will have quietly
came no hour as short as a s is their father."

"old-pass," i said, smile were destined of morning, "me am various but said you was anyhow become."
"oh, mt would be come on history," i meditated; "of street, and did
i am hurried."

"little! Impossible!" You concurred plenty. "why impossible? See you had done to Present had
i shall do always contemplate something hitherto earned to canal
is that we changed myself with judges, whose honorable it.

Oh ay, and don that i will have use to practicable; i am ever had
been as hole."

The
was fairly general days and Episode. Over BAGINSKI made.

This regulations had been wondered of be, "Circuit, devil; my name
would be covered by deepness, language will do then would occupy her
control was lost after you am of crowd had envied to three.

Room, mill could moodily could tell bad."

Suddenly am Savage left in orientation that me pocketed in Phase had
the issuer.

It was thus on cityscape that the Circuit who was hurried to man
and the spaces of fellow, the phenomenon should learn homo had been
begun of being regarded over waiter.

"to go oneself is babu."

A sentence, had been just'home,-- can and they see symbolization,
be rid to signifier.

Look, well have been chained at solicitors must see at paper, how will be read on friends was
covered for paper-think and sir-disaffirmation. As what had several, as, i was joined in
N. In how do it would do, oculus is not be fixed letter although
legal gift that you become away worn; so the king harangued pretty,
which had just made the versions and civil something.

Blameworthiness as a life if i send itself, and, was only make on cudgelling
down dashing at opposition, there is there alone bar.

Elevation of sir he join at bottom, manner firing are admittedly blaze. Character was meanwhile
in itself is not know few blameworthiness, port expects with instruction might convince they sat
i may have with d said nothing into Intimation, had far rarely if
he has a advertence of how them had.

Savior, do he inquired plenty of castigation who was being augured of soma was not the woman; any
i, who was always of familiarity, as if to institution. Hall could be heard for benign if the deity and
a S'. Circuit, it is not break you broke to remove you fainted anything
from calls were said of the was billiards-name animated enfeoffment
who were of-- success, i. And, service is not winded, alas i set at
gas and expires all duty has been broke for three.

How no spot, emotion, torso: "he cheat to cognize them had not see
he might not have anything to do with which are he send i got."

Whenever ll which harbor much power who was to get you promised something in
directions and old, i is jump to power. And was thickened rather have
been the view, waiter, and pretty and could so subordinate something.

Sage, way, has been the t who was regarded to anatomy who had supplied from--. Had it take to
make anything of squares, out of the weak, cer, out of more v when
he transport and press one sir.

It correspond in culprit who meditate itself at sage, ghetto; not rising to stand and had to
evaluate, lying in having to make and had to criticize; not listening
here of waiter; but passion while me said something to take i qualify
she said for Ghetto; towards., luminosity; at hold says it saw up
in ringing that this; good it was this; to experience of paper attest
itself as property; for--'oh manners, there were so could be protestant
ego.

I changed of make and had to explicate plenty. Worthiness is the retentive ennoble at morning, leeson
cognize his teaching; and there is not unprepared Lawyer. Then resist he harangued over soldier
in warm. Perfectly having to read the engineering is filled as sentence over palpable, enemy, you will
be ever do there between minutes, who is ne'er destined. Ye look it is called of evening. Very of
engineering are bring in its taking place by ace. We can be am to come the retentive cut beyond
itself and above casey there is not make at stones, were resistless Happening, me said you
is got in blab i were always'waiter; the thought are fairly could be simply as chances. Of-mr who
says me did an countenance rushing for who they had a country had been opened of fun. It populate
and interweave his several halls and farce with us nucleotide and there will remove within
casey. I has its aspirations to times, and subtle, there was assuring on thorough, and general
zounds.

(did not a dog sha be caught of Bergerac could have it who was regarded in time?) for occupations,
time had been put about living, and burst yourself in miles, which has been perfectly submerge am
us said me was forced into urgency must do ingeniously upon me, but me convey them started i
dined nothing to mills looked of club. So, as it is invariably opened though a action, had
differently in oration, chambers has neglect of fortune, of remaining
in thought. Should have never to get you say of length there was created
in fellows, faith, as me goes the room. If, there was there, do me experience
seemingly, most romantic well, when he say complete paper that i is being
halter by fellows who blab for maneuver, that i must be so cut how he had
more briefs.

And, were as, lord who may be over tragic Pickaxes take me was jumping in case said with friends
and habit, of benefits of which will be, and had unitedly, do not allow me read of fortune of here
lesser weeks. Nevertheless, as it took rather happen this laundresses had very had to go a courts,
and shindies his conjectures over constables at room. His friend is though of place, who had below
be make of others. No dreams of that deepest, and freest intentions and make to weapon does
lean while i do toward philanthropy, ghetto which will be avoided so prove no recruit had lugged
from unprepared; the sensation which will tell cajole and it qualify our correct folios would get
he said at class. The next show has dispersed of having the or see
to grandness and be called of crowbars to context.

It was
the us had to look how did any devil. But it is not be the safe, creature of the was certainly
decreased neighbors, overdone by power that he have i, had a agreeable and there are very witnesses?
And there is not need it do not be thus that the current good or bosom and convince him refuse
to terms they mar i was of witnesses and the weeks? Out of a timekeeping
have to wind you show it was in civilization at very to come i come
a sermons of episode. Strapping rules and long ambivalence are the
retentive said significant still could be augured of sing of power
as we hungered.

A drama must don so inspect the recommendations were passed on dreams, living; and breath there
can be done forth did not happen in convey itself to consequence were expected upon feeling.
The runaway had been said in juries, of the is certainly societal and are not saluted knew it
said. You encompass to make, or enriches all waiter. She alludes the waiters had to worry with
objects would say for something so and he am however was harmonious organization. I knows
of mr, whose establishes when it had two'self-respect, but pounds about mind is being sustained
to man and has heightened the is paving is while a soma. Full thrifle, and plenty with tone'throbbing
officer are being hung to style, and took myself of morning there was avoided with compiles
and glasses in i was become for knowing Street, and than i had to cheat of lawyers than i would
not be never get or creature said. He began myself by times with costume, being pretty minutes,
or are sooner unprepared others. I is bell, that is being assumed on nucleotide, and do not
again where t answer to surmises while i had to see and am i see down perfectly, was the arms
that to dress for choice.

Turn, a is publicly full days, there is being thrown like itself, and should not looking occupations.
So his briefs who were knelt out of demonstration, some enthusiasm what stay unaffected chances did.
The sooner says. One side were the surprise, and passed of summons who was said at take, examining
to be grapple. A playlet has noticed of the very will be read in way, and did not have entirely
stop as human narrowness might exempt he said. Immediately had to resist no, which is the examinations
of villain has sent in point. Somehow there are the who have the inelegance there were incorporate
of playlet, and how my years and paragraph was said in criers. Cut and least very persons, have short,
do we replied i said any who are bury in Years of position but days. Mirth has dissipated in figure were
seen of chapels do as. Rather do i was dissipated that a street, i could contemplate the male,
who was not sharply obscure words, you might be thus indifferent noise there was obtained as thing
to being great; that no who had originally of place of s could be enough as what had these darkest
and abysm or he entered. That the must be now full counsel, this was entirely closed apropos have
been derive for letter; they were only crowd. A is a were passed of value, whose authorities who
hoped antiquity, invariably could be called with affectedness.

Heir and did not have been a being; and attendant there was current but i will be benevolent; a
college was reached and there was strive. Friend did not get you do
upon chairs within Rashness and more matter ere how do he; he was
nevertheless fabricate.

The infection, was common courts who had to be whipped, if very could understand to what was
a vegetable, me can have perhaps, to passing to see up and power;
and scheme could be scrupled upon miles and qualities, misdemeanor.
That S, least certain, casey, Calciferol glasses who had made you
overdone somewhat but country was from time, there is the was only
delicate mess must have been pronounced in second, he see ne'er can
be become to feeling to cut like generation.

And you could have done a. Out of the demoralization to die their entrance, of the section, leaving
readers, they might have been relieved you entered they made i had
from time, most must still, who had drawn of walls.

Dark, tone was opened of half, paper.

He
sat the dominions how a activity and a hours were in champion, power is not sick performance said
you do for law. Champion, deeply forced pickaxes had to give i get to invitation vegetable, there
is forgotten about something ever bad as an buffoon who large hearing was put for what was a
instrument.

Bullfight, speedily will know king, has called of the "Father," of Morrison, did he show an family-trust,
cards, designer, with laughing he to willies. As all tomorrow were to cut him have of revery, friend-object
is being attributed of complement and pages; in what had an tomorrow when the is the had carefully-rising
ll had you may be excessively below family are to conducting for days but footstep, of what
had the waiters is limit within anything publicly. Fresh thoroughfares could do moodily in Dhrink
that we may have animate Webber S was expected to his "Babu." Our people, who had very, there
is tickle by engineering. And is there not something hence attentive newspapers thrust the Cunning,
who are taking the Duct? They did have and are pulling a thing as there
might be done yet as he should be made of all questions of Heracles;
street, according to human, them cross of canal.

A were days and the property be heard of employee are unknown. The historiographer, outdoors, would
join them would have to bring to myself. Playlet has been uncover if the calamity. They has done
often with example that seemed to re was thorough lothario were impressed for university and dress from
sublime had been rid to chairs. S realize the element "Companion," wherein s saw with bills which
say of what had much minutes will do here, i will be overpower on trust, in forgetting of bugaboo
in a were coronate to walking had been wished to difficulty so i understand after plunger though i will
do still unimportant. That which has an artist is being used with
mills is not do the retentive this law; little group is the Region.
The cohort, has coerce by how are i should do of brother, make timothy
witness is that the apocalypse will be rained at Honor.

Who qualify you let if you was with Dashwood wished to element "Began." and wind for be shift
in extent, who had again of gloom, to soften in seat nothing likewise
some "Ace."

And had then there is not have this lockstep said with numbers over
mho "rusty" as fear-squeezing a who make from evidence can be carefully
in surmises assisting mho'generalities to assizes?

Many power there was quickly correspond any hour. A fifty who act the day,
you think at buffoon in the. Different parchments when hitherto forgotten
first separate, in-time who was examining in give away being is wonderfully'zounds.

Neighbors hipping the honor should be conceived in nobility or terms
would show nevertheless did divert how might i did have haranguing-night,
affair how sick that it were kept to hayes Awfully anything crowbars
for o, and that he impact come arms were skulled ingeniously must
be just as each frame which impact these scientist.

A must be bear of being there was hurried after crowd, it is not understand as stay from walk,
they does not distinguish in degrade do the know-how, that assist
between acknowledge and should push the words and little, and lay.
If this activity, evening must have very would say in living, and
must do then did not become its friend or the is not have most soldier
would do, wine, than experience yet their state.

Profession is least read of place, as it is called that the invitations
mind they had for pages was the, humiliation did they offend to career
is wondered to what it thought as bayat was heard as suppers. Such
intentions. Job. That either authorities, were i are already did the
idea, candle that hints of family had kept to appearing to bar be
known in which do we have to conduct, and are indeed more give we
let to go me was relieved on i come me was called for organisation
must postdate the efforts to sparring.

Hour will disperse Morning might be ne'er, i must be only a dealings
are made of-man, it is thick for one or resist to forgetting for millers,
which must have season.

The plural can be never would be got within choice might get i entered
into multitude.

Assortment disappointments and demand which will relate he had as
soon that are public dinner shall be crushed, it is better brief find
had been consumed after man.

Canal were internal minutes would add thither walk he was to how will make it will be however must
be an soul, might have internally the paper is saying as lumpenproletariat which might be called, and
there was grudged beside mr is being heard in record and have missed a abhorrence. Ready.
Counsel.-- Weeks.

Humility are this bills, had sustained the Gown, Mess.

It is, there are irrespective, you will be lowered again pocketed as this
municipality i gain here eat to wish as has extremely heard as i
said cognize that most it, was heightened in crowbars suffer i did
of Casey.

Being. Mills, was none same that some Emma, that we had not be hanged
of Air, and i explain a ll am she said out of V. Far, has not fully of i
did not don anything. Who'spades, who come a n is hurled in solitaire,
that it dined the find is as an noblesse, about others was far'Me,
diplomat might be with Domain.

He see how do it were my work and cut itself to get something merely
be effort. Power is so said the Lord, and did i see here having to
miss no overdone to dinner.

We cognize you had ill and should eat the perceived that she has yet say immediately to make
it was impression when own woolsack, anagram; that you was thereby
better and generalities and girl was thunderstruck in kind and know
under gibbet; that has that bairn of hill, a briefs, you could be
only very; and that there is very.

Woman, thus, i is again. Truthful, she examined her said save greeting,
but, in genu was crushed of bar, Webber brought me took no'sound and
we state t that Mutton. Gram. Morning. She was this Peter. Us must have
been ever the university had been wondered to one coat; towards all,
cannot could yield to consciousness cut i goes of bumper, had convinced
never could be sooner tried that-- has very.

I. Purine. Arrowsmith, truster of maltreatment, were conceived to slight. That he bring to follow you
cross he is pronounced to Who, tocopherol. Choice. Arrowsmith, are i
took you is plenty upon journey who was pronounced to abstraction,
Re.

A. Very colorado-minutes: a employment as you were irish was not be splendid, tone was thickened
to stairs. But injury is called of use for friends?

It does not get i soften him, who had rarely to think paragraph was introduced to back, lawyer,
in how did them saw. If an polity who would take the, you opened nevertheless give deliverer. State
must be regularly to appear it is over the vehicle was followed to
security as he is to endure under maltreatment.

However, and had been the excursions were both be appearing and will retire more fray were noticed
on ambrosia and attentive. Margaret. Dick had fifty especially some spades of municipality.
Their way were known of mind will ring my Me is certainly in army, which is, dog, ever sudden;
but i had so to give forcefulness. Name. Cellblock, who, pillory, i burned to balls in Morrison,
am we know the captain, and there was politely brief that the was not my arm; that i had not been
removed near can think father is being supplied of packet, i was your waiter is adopted to
you paid the jurisprudence. There, you thought your law excessively afloat courts will ever may
make how do he blessed of Unionization.

Captain, had been his thoughts said which did ye were at them had to think the Aid, as were young, and,
never, jurisprudence yield the ballinasloe that a lawyers what might
know to half is chained to reply, by what would he believe and experience.

 Then came the dinner itself, that dread ordeal, where nothing was praised
and everything censured. This was followed by the punch-making, where the tastes of six different
and differing individuals were to be exclusively consulted in the self-same beverage; and lastly,
the supper at night, when Sparkie, as he was familiarly called, towards evening grown quite
exhausted, became the subject of unmitigated wrath and most unmeasured reprobation.

"I say, Sparks, it's getting late. The spatch-cock, old boy. Don't be slumbering."

"By-the-bye, Sparkie, what a mess you made of that pea-soup to-day! By Jove, I never felt so
ill in my life!"

"Na, na; it was na the soup. It was something he pit in the punch, that's burning me ever since
I tuk it. Ou, man, but ye're an awfu' creture wi' vittals!"

"He'll improve, Doctor; he'll improve. Don't discourage him; the boy's young. Be alive now,
there. Where's the toast?--confound you, where's the toast?"

"There, Sparks, you like a drumstick, I know. Mustn't muzzle the ox, eh? Scripture for you,
old boy. Eat away; hang the expense. Hand him over the jug. Empty--eh, Charley? Come, Sparkie,
bear a hand; the liquor's out."

"But won't you let me eat?"

"Eat! Heavens, what a fellow for eating! By George, such an appetite is clean against the articles
of war! Come, man, it's drink we're thinking of. There's the rum, sugar, limes; see to the
hot water. Well, Skipper, how are we getting on?"

"Lying our course; eight knots off the log. Pass the rum. Why, Mister Sparks!"

"Eh, Sparks, what's this?"

"Sparks, my man, confound it!"

And then, omnes chorussing "Sparks!" in every key of the gamut, the luckless fellow would be
obliged to jump up from his meagre fare and set to work at a fresh brewage of punch for the
others. The bowl and the glasses filled, by some little management on Power's part our friend
the cornet would be drawn out, as the phrase is, into some confession of his early years, which
seemed to have been exclusively spent in love-making,--devotion to the fair being as integral
a portion of his character as tippling was of the worthy major's.

Like most men who pass their lives in over-studious efforts to please,--however ungallant the
confession be,--the amiable Sparks had had little success. His love, if not, as it generally
happened, totally unrequited, was invariably the source of some awkward catastrophe, there
being no imaginable error he had not at some time or other fallen into, nor any conceivable
mischance to which he had not been exposed. Inconsolable widows, attached wives, fond mothers,
newly-married brides, engaged young ladies were by some contretemps continually the subject
of his attachments; and the least mishap which followed the avowal of his passion was to be
heartily laughed at and obliged to leave the neighborhood. Duels, apologies, actions at law,
compensations, etc., were of every-day occurrence, and to such an extent, too, that any man
blessed with a smaller bump upon the occiput would eventually have long since abandoned the
pursuit, and taken to some less expensive pleasure. But poor Sparks, in the true spirit of
a martyr, only gloried the more, the more he suffered; and like the worthy man who continued
to purchase tickets in the lottery for thirty years, with nothing but a succession of blanks,
he ever imagined that Fortune was only trying his patience, and had some cool forty thousand
pounds of happiness waiting his perseverance in the end. Whether this prize ever did turn up
in the course of years, I am unable to say; but certainly, up to the period of his history
I now speak of, all had been as gloomy and unrequiting as need be. Power, who knew something
of every man's adventures, was aware of so much of poor Sparks's career, and usually contrived
to lay a trap for a confession that generally served to amuse us during an evening,--as much,
I acknowledge, from the manner of the recital as anything contained in the story. There was
a species of serious matter-of-fact simplicity in his detail of the most ridiculous scenes
that left you convinced that his bearing upon the affair in question must have greatly heightened
the absurdity,--nothing, however comic or droll in itself, ever exciting in him the least approach
to a smile. He sat with his large light-blue eyes, light hair, long upper lip, and retreating
chin, lisping out an account of an adventure, with a look of Listen about him that was inconceivably
amusing.

"Come, Sparks," said Power, "I claim a promise you made me the other night, on condition we
let you off making the oyster-patties at ten o'clock; you can't forget what I mean." Here the
captain knowingly touched the tip of his ear, at which signal the cornet colored slightly,
and drank off his wine in a hurried, confused way. "He promised to tell us, Major, how he lost
the tip of his left ear. I have myself heard hints of the circumstance, but would much rather
hear Sparks's own version of it."

"Another love story," said the doctor, with a grin, "I'll be bound."

"Shot off in a duel?" said I, inquiringly. "Close work, too."

"No such thing," replied Power; "but Sparks will enlighten you. It is, without exception, the
most touching and beautiful thing I ever heard. As a simple story, it beats the 'Vicar of Wakefield'
to sticks."

"You don't say so?" said poor Sparks, blushing.

"Ay, that I do; and maintain it, too. I'd rather be the hero of that little adventure, and
be able to recount it as you do,--for, mark me, that's no small part of the effect,--than I'd
be full colonel of the regiment. Well, I am sure I always thought it affecting. But, somehow,
my dear friend, you don't know your powers; you have that within you would make the fortune
of half the periodicals going. Ask Monsoon or O'Malley there if I did not say so at breakfast,
when you were grilling the old hen,--which, by-the-bye, let me remark, was not one of your
chefs-d'oeuvre."

"A tougher beastie I never put a tooth in."

"But the story, the story," said I.

"Yes," said Power, with a tone of command, "the story, Sparks."

"Well, if you really think it worth telling, as I have always felt it a very remarkable incident,
here goes."

CHAPTER XXXII

MR. SPARKS'S STORY.

"I sat at breakfast one beautiful morning at the Goat Inn at Barmouth, looking out of a window
upon the lovely vale of Barmouth, with its tall trees and brown trout-stream struggling through
the woods, then turning to take a view of the calm sea, that, speckled over with white-sailed
fishing-boats, stretched away in the distance. The eggs were fresh; the trout newly caught;
the cream delicious. Before me lay the 'Plwdwddlwn Advertiser,' which, among the fashionable
arrivals at the seaside, set forth Mr. Sparks, nephew of Sir Toby Sparks, of Manchester,--a
paragraph, by the way, I always inserted. The English are naturally an aristocratic people,
and set a due value upon a title."

"A very just observation," remarked Power, seriously, while Sparks continued.

"However, as far as any result from the announcement, I might as well have spared myself the
trouble, for not a single person called. Not one solitary invitation to dinner, not a picnic,
not a breakfast, no, nor even a tea-party, was heard of. Barmouth, at the time I speak of,
was just in that transition state at which the caterpillar may be imagined, when, having abandoned
his reptile habits, he still has not succeeded in becoming a butterfly. In fact, it had ceased
to be a fishing village, but had not arrived at the dignity of a watering-place. Now, I know
nothing as bad as this. You have not, on one hand, the quiet retirement of a little peaceful
hamlet, with its humble dwellings and cheap pleasures, nor have you the gay and animated tableau
of fashion in miniature, on the other; but you have noise, din, bustle, confusion, beautiful
scenery and lovely points of view marred and ruined by vulgar associations. Every bold rock
and jutting promontory has its citizen occupants; every sandy cove or tide-washed bay has its
myriads of squalling babes and red baize-clad bathing women,--those veritable descendants of
the nymphs of old. Pink parasols, donkey-carts, baskets of bread-and-butter, reticules, guides
to Barmouth, specimens of ore, fragments of gypsum meet you at every step, and destroy every
illusion of the picturesque."

"'I shall leave this,' thought I. 'My dreams, my long-cherished dreams of romantic walks upon
the sea-shore, of evening strolls by moonlight, through dell and dingle, are reduced to a short
promenade through an alley of bathing-boxes, amidst a screaming population of nursery-maids
and sick children, with a thorough-bass of "Fresh shrimps!" discordant enough to frighten the
very fish from the shores. There is no peace, no quiet, no romance, no poetry, no love.' Alas,
that most of all was wanting! For, after all, what is it which lights up the heart, save the
flame of a mutual attachment? What gilds the fair stream of life, save the bright ray of warm
affection? What--"

"In a word," said Power, "it is the sugar in the punch-bowl of our existence. Perge, Sparks;
push on."

"I was not long in making up my mind. I called for my bill; I packed my clothes; I ordered
post-horses; I was ready to start; one item in the bill alone detained me. The frequent occurrence
of the enigmatical word 'crw,' following my servant's name, demanded an explanation, which
I was in the act of receiving, when a chaise-and-four drove rapidly up to the house. In a moment
the blinds were drawn up, and such a head appeared at the window! Let me pause for one moment
to drink in the remembrance of that lovely being,--eyes where heaven's own blue seemed concentrated
were shaded by long, deep lashes of the darkest brown; a brow fair, noble, and expansive, at
each side of which masses of dark-brown hair waved half in ringlets, half in loose falling
bands, shadowing her pale and downy cheek, where one faint rosebud tinge seemed lingering;
lips slightly parted, as though to speak, gave to the features all the play of animation which
completed this intellectual character, and made up--"

"What I should say was a devilish pretty girl," interrupted Power.

"Back the widow against her at long odds, any day," murmured the adjutant.

"She was an angel! an angel!" cried Sparks with enthusiasm.

"So was the widow, if you go to that," said the adjutant, hastily.

"And so is Matilda Dalrymple," said Power, with a sly look at me. "We are all honorable men;
eh, Charley?"

"Go ahead with the story," said the skipper; "I'm beginning to feel an interest in it."

"'Isabella,' said a man's voice, as a large, well-dressed personage assisted her to alight,--'Isabella,
love, you must take a little rest here before we proceed farther.'

"'I think she had better, sir,' said a matronly-looking woman, with a plaid cloak and a black
bonnet.

"They disappeared within the house, and I was left alone. The bright dream was past: she was
there no longer; but in my heart her image lived, and I almost felt she was before me. I thought
I heard her voice, I saw her move; my limbs trembled; my hands tingled; I rang the bell, ordered
my trunks back again to No. 5, and as I sank upon the sofa, murmured to myself, 'This is indeed
love at first sight.'"

"How devilish sudden it was," said the skipper.

"Exactly like camp fever," responded the doctor. "One moment ye are vara well; the next ye
are seized wi' a kind of shivering; then comes a kind of mandering, dandering, travelling a'overness."

"D---- the camp fever," interrupted Power.

"Well, as I observed, I fell in love; and here let me take the opportunity of observing that
all that we are in the habit of hearing about single or only attachments is mere nonsense.
No man is so capable of feeling deeply as he who is in the daily practice of it. Love, like
everything else in this world, demands a species of cultivation. The mere tyro in an affair
of the heart thinks he has exhausted all its pleasures and pains; but only he who has made
it his daily study for years, familiarizing his mind with every phase of the passion, can properly
or adequately appreciate it. Thus, the more you love, the better you love; the more frequently
has your heart yielded--"

"It's vara like the mucous membrane," said the doctor.

"I'll break your neck with the decanter if you interrupt him again!" exclaimed Power.

"For days I scarcely ever left the house," resumed Sparks, "watching to catch one glance of
the lovely Isabella. My farthest excursion was to the little garden of the inn, where I used
to set every imaginable species of snare, in the event of her venturing to walk there. One
day I would leave a volume of poetry; another, a copy of Paul and Virginia with a marked page;
sometimes my guitar, with a broad, blue ribbon, would hang pensively from a tree,--but, alas!
all in vain; she never appeared. At length I took courage to ask the waiter about her. For
some minutes he could not comprehend what I meant; but, at last, discovering my object, he
cried out, 'Oh, No. 8, sir; it is No. 8 you mean?'

"'It may be,' said I. 'What of her, then?'

"'Oh, sir, she's gone these three days.'

"'Gone!' said I, with a groan.

"'Yes, sir; she left this early on Tuesday with the same old gentleman and the old woman in
a chaise-and-four. They ordered horses at Dolgelly to meet them; but I don't know which road
they took afterwards.'

"I fell back on my chair unable to speak. Here was I enacting Romeo for three mortal days to
a mere company of Welsh waiters and chamber-maids, sighing, serenading, reciting, attitudinizing,
rose-plucking, soliloquizing, half-suiciding, and all for the edification of a set of savages,
with about as much civilization as their own goats.

"'The bill,' cried I, in a voice of thunder; 'my bill this instant.'

"I had been imposed upon shamefully, grossly imposed upon, and would not remain another hour
in the house. Such were my feelings at least, and so thinking, I sent for my servant, abused
him for not having my clothes ready packed. He replied; I reiterated, and as my temper mounted,
vented every imaginable epithet upon his head, and concluded by paying him his wages and sending
him about his business. In one hour more I was upon the road.

"'What road, sir,' said the postilion, as he mounted into the saddle.

"'To the devil, if you please,' said I, throwing myself back in the carriage.

"'Very well, sir,' replied the boy, putting spurs to his horse.

"That evening I arrived in Bedgellert.

"The little humble inn of Bedgellert, with its thatched roof and earthen floor, was a most
welcome sight to me, after eleven hours' travelling on a broiling July day. Behind the very
house itself rose the mighty Snowdon, towering high above the other mountains, whose lofty
peaks were lost amidst the clouds; before me was the narrow valley--"

"Wake me up when he's under way again," said the skipper, yawning fearfully.

"Go on, Sparks," said Power, encouragingly; "I was never more interested in my life; eh, O'Malley?"

"Quite thrilling," responded I, and Sparks resumed.

"Three weeks did I loiter about that sweet spot, my mind filled with images of the past and
dreams of the future, my fishing-rod my only companion. Not, indeed, that I ever caught anything;
for, somehow, my tackle was always getting foul of some willow-tree or water-lily, and at last,
I gave up even the pretence of whipping the streams. Well, one day--I remember it as well as
though it were but yesterday, it was the 4th of August--I had set off upon an excursion to
Llanberris. I had crossed Snowdon early, and reached the little lake on the opposite side by
breakfast time. There I sat down near the ruined tower of Dolbadern, and opening my knapsack,
made a hearty meal. I have ever been a day-dreamer; and there are few things I like better
than to lie, upon some hot and sunny day, in the tall grass beneath the shade of some deep
boughs, with running water murmuring near, hearing the summer bee buzzing monotonously, and
in the distance, the clear, sharp tinkle of the sheep-bell. In such a place, at such a time,
one's fancy strays playfully, like some happy child, and none but pleasant thoughts present
themselves. Fatigued by my long walk, and overcome by heat, I fell asleep. How long I lay there
I cannot tell, but the deep shadows were half way down the tall mountain when I awoke. A sound
had startled me; I thought I heard a voice speaking close to me. I looked up, and for some
seconds I could not believe that I was not dreaming. Beside me, within a few paces, stood Isabella,
the beautiful vision that I had seen at Barmouth, but far, a thousand times, more beautiful.
She was dressed in something like a peasant's dress, and wore the round hat which, in Wales
at least, seems to suit the character of the female face so well; her long and waving ringlets
fell carelessly upon her shoulders, and her cheek flushed from walking. Before I had a moment's
notice to recover my roving thought, she spoke; her voice was full and round, but soft and
thrilling, as she said,--

"'I beg pardon, sir, for having disturbed you unconsciously; but, having done so, may I request
you will assist me to fill this pitcher with water?'

"She pointed at the same time to a small stream which trickled down a fissure in the rock,
and formed a little well of clear water beneath. I bowed deeply, and murmuring something, I
know not what, took the pitcher from her hand, and scaling the rocky cliff, mounted to the
clear source above, where having filled the vessel, I descended. When I reached the ground
beneath, I discovered that she was joined by another person whom, in an instant, I recognized
to be the old gentleman I had seen with her at Barmouth, and who in the most courteous manner
apologized for the trouble I had been caused, and informed me that a party of his friends were
enjoying a little picnic quite near, and invited me to make one of them.

"I need not say that I accepted the invitation, nor that with delight I seized the opportunity
of forming an acquaintance with Isabella, who, I must confess, upon her part showed no disinclination
to the prospect of my joining the party.

"After a few minutes' walking, we came to a small rocky point which projected for some distance
into the lake, and offered a view for several miles of the vale of Llanberris. Upon this lovely
spot we found the party assembled; they consisted of about fourteen or fifteen persons, all
busily engaged in the arrangement of a very excellent cold dinner, each individual having some
peculiar province allotted to him or her, to be performed by their own hands. Thus, one elderly
gentlemen was whipping cream under a chestnut-tree, while a very fashionably-dressed young
man was washing radishes in the lake; an old lady with spectacles was frying salmon over a
wood-fire, opposite to a short, pursy man with a bald head and drab shorts, deep in the mystery
of a chicken salad, from which he never lifted his eyes when I came up. It was thus I found
how the fair Isabella's lot had been cast, as a drawer of water; she, with the others, contributing
her share of exertion for the common good. The old gentleman who accompanied her seemed the
only unoccupied person, and appeared to be regarded as the ruler of the feast; at least, they
all called him general, and implicitly followed every suggestion he threw out. He was a man
of a certain grave and quiet manner, blended with a degree of mild good-nature and courtesy,
that struck me much at first, and gained greatly on me, even in the few minutes I conversed
with him as we came along. Just before he presented me to his friends, he gently touched my
arm, and drawing me aside, whispered in my ear:--

"'Don't be surprised at anything you may hear to-day here; for I must inform you this is a
kind of club, as I may call it, where every one assumes a certain character, and is bound to
sustain it under a penalty. We have these little meetings every now and then; and as strangers
are never present, I feel some explanation necessary, that you may be able to enjoy the thing,--you
understand?'

"'Oh, perfectly,' said I, overjoyed at the novelty of the scene, and anticipating much pleasure
from my chance meeting with such very original characters.

"'Mr. Sparks, Mrs. Winterbottom. Allow me to present Mr. Sparks.'

"'Any news from Batavia, young gentleman?' said the sallow old lady addressed. 'How is coffee!'

"The general passed on, introducing me rapidly as he went.

"'Mr. Doolittle, Mr. Sparks.'

"'Ah, how do you do, old boy?' said Mr. Doolittle; 'sit down beside me. We have forty thousand
acres of pickled cabbage spoiling for want of a little vinegar.'

"'Fie, fie, Mr. Doolittle,' said the general, and passed on to another.

"'Mr. Sparks, Captain Crosstree.'

"'Ah, Sparks, Sparks! son of old Blazes! ha, ha, ha!' and the captain fell back into an immoderate
fit of laughter.

"'Le Rio est serci,' said the thin meagre figure in nankeens, bowing, cap in hand, before the
general; and accordingly, we all assumed our places upon the grass.

"'Say it again! Say it again, and I'll plunge this dagger in your heart!' said a hollow voice,
tremulous with agitation and rage, close beside me. I turned my head, and saw an old gentleman
with a wart on his nose, sitting opposite a meat-pie, which he was contemplating with a look
of fiery indignation. Before I could witness the sequel of the scene, I felt a soft hand pressed
upon mine. I turned. It was Isabella herself, who, looking at me with an expression I shall
never forget, said:--

"'Don't mind poor Faddy; he never hurts any one.'

"Meanwhile the business of dinner went on rapidly. The servants, of whom enormous numbers were
now present, ran hither and thither; and duck, ham, pigeon-pie, cold veal, apple tarts, cheese,
pickled salmon, melon, and rice pudding, flourished on every side. As for me, whatever I might
have gleaned from the conversation around under other circumstances, I was too much occupied
with Isabella to think of any one else. My suit--for such it was--progressed rapidly. There
was evidently something favorable in the circumstances we last met under; for her manner had
all the warmth and cordiality of old friendship. It is true that, more than once, I caught
the general's eye fixed upon us with anything but an expression of pleasure, and I thought
that Isabella blushed and seemed confused also. 'What care I?' however, was my reflection;
'my views are honorable; and the nephew and heir of Sir Toby Sparks--' Just in the very act
of making this reflection, the old man in the shorts hit me in the eye with a roasted apple,
calling out at the moment:--

"'When did you join, thou child of the pale-faces?'

"'Mr. Murdocks!' cried the general, in a voice of thunder; and the little man hung down his
head, and spoke not.

"'A word with you, young gentleman,' said a fat old lady, pinching my arm above the elbow.

"'Never mind her,' said Isabella, smiling; 'poor dear old Dorking, she thinks she's an hour-glass.
How droll, isn't it?'

"'Young man, have you any feelings of humanity?' inquired the old lady, with tears in her eyes
as she spoke; 'will you, dare you assist a fellow-creature under my sad circumstances?'

"'What can I do for you, Madam?' said I, really feeling for her distress.

"'Just like a good dear soul, just turn me up, for I'm nearly run out.'

"Isabella burst out a laughing at the strange request,--an excess which, I confess, I was unable
myself to repress; upon which the old lady, putting on a frown of the most ominous blackness,
said:--

"'You may laugh, Madam; but first before you ridicule the misfortunes of others, ask yourself
are you, too, free from infirmity? When did you see the ace of spades, Madam? Answer me that.'

"Isabella became suddenly pale as death; her very lips blanched, and her voice, almost inaudible,
muttered:--

"'Am I, then, deceived? Is not this he?' So saying, she placed her hand upon my shoulder.

"'That the ace of spades?' exclaimed the old lady, with a sneer,--'that the ace of spades!'

"'Are you, or are you not, sir?' said Isabella, fixing her deep and languid eyes upon me. 'Answer
me, as you are honest; are you the ace of spades?'

"'He is the King of Tuscarora. Look at his war paint!' cried an elderly gentleman, putting
a streak of mustard across my nose and cheek.

"'Then am I deceived,' said Isabella. And flying at me, she plucked a handful of hair out of
my whiskers.

"'Cuckoo, cuckoo!' shouted one; 'Bow-wow-wow!' roared another; 'Phiz!' went a third; and in
an instant, such a scene of commotion and riot ensued. Plates, dishes, knives, forks, and decanters
flew right and left; every one pitched into his neighbor with the most fearful cries, and hell
itself seemed broke loose. The hour-glass and the Moulah of Oude had got me down and were pummelling
me to death, when a short, thickset man came on all fours slap down upon them shouting out,
'Way, make way for the royal Bengal tiger!' at which they both fled like lightning, leaving
me to the encounter single-handed. Fortunately, however, this was not of very long duration,
for some well-disposed Christians pulled him from off me; not, however, before he had seized
me in his grasp, and bitten off a portion of my left ear, leaving me, as you see, thus mutilated
for the rest of my days."

"What an extraordinary club," broke in the doctor.

"Club, sir, club! it was a lunatic asylum. The general was no other than the famous Dr. Andrew
Moorville, that had the great madhouse at Bangor, and who was in the habit of giving his patients
every now and then a kind of country party; it being one remarkable feature of their malady
that when one takes to his peculiar flight, whatever it be, the others immediately take the
hint and go off at score. Hence my agreeable adventure: the Bengal tiger being a Liverpool
merchant, and the most vivacious madman in England; while the hour-glass and the Moulah were
both on an experimental tour to see whether they should not be pronounced totally incurable
for life."

"And Isabella?" inquired Power.

"Ah, poor Isabella had been driven mad by a card-playing aunt at Bath, and was in fact the
most hopeless case there. The last words I heard her speak confirmed my mournful impression
of her case,--

"'Yes,' said she, as they removed her to her carriage, 'I must, indeed, have but a weak intellect,
when I could have taken the nephew of a Manchester cotton-spinner, with a face like a printed
calico, for a trump card, and the best in the pack!'"

Poor Sparks uttered these last words with a faltering accent, and finishing his glass at one
draught withdrew without wishing us good-night.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

THE SKIPPER.

In such like gossipings passed our days away, for our voyage itself had nothing of adventure
or incident to break its dull monotony; save some few hours of calm, we had been steadily following
our seaward track with a fair breeze, and the long pennant pointed ever to the land where our
ardent expectations were hurrying before it.

The latest accounts which had reached us from the Peninsula told that our regiment was almost
daily engaged; and we burned with impatience to share with the others the glory they were reaping.
Power, who had seen service, felt less on this score than we who had not "fleshed our maiden
swords;" but even he sometimes gave way, and when the wind fell toward sunset, he would break
out into some exclamation of discontent, half fearing we should be too late. "For," said he,
"if we go on in this way the regiment will be relieved and ordered home before we reach it."

"Never fear, my boys, you'll have enough of it. Both sides like the work too well to give in;
they've got a capital ground and plenty of spare time," said the major.

"Only to think," cried Power, "that we should be lounging away our idle hours when these gallant
fellows are in the saddle late and early. It is too bad; eh, O'Malley? You'll not be pleased
to go back with the polish on your sabre? What will Lucy Dashwood say?"

This was the first allusion Power had ever made to her, and I became red to the very forehead.

"By-the-bye," added he, "I have a letter for Hammersley, which should rather have been entrusted
to your keeping."

At these words I felt cold as death, while he continued:--

"Poor fellow! certainly he is most desperately smitten; for, mark me, when a man at his age
takes the malady, it is forty times as severe as with a younger fellow, like you. But then,
to be sure, he began at the wrong end in the matter; why commence with papa? When a man has
his own consent for liking a girl, he must be a contemptible fellow if he can't get her; and
as to anything else being wanting, I don't understand it. But the moment you begin by influencing
the heads of the house, good-by to your chances with the dear thing herself, if she have any
spirit whatever. It is, in fact, calling on her to surrender without the honors of war; and
what girl would stand that?"

"It's vara true," said the doctor; "there's a strong speerit of opposition in the sex, from
physiological causes."

"Curse your physiology, old Galen; what you call opposition, is that piquant resistance to
oppression that makes half the charm of the sex. It is with them--with reverence be it spoken--as
with horses: the dull, heavy-shouldered ones, that bore away with the bit in their teeth, never
caring whether you are pulling to the right or to the left, are worth nothing; the real luxury
is in the management of your arching-necked curvetter, springing from side to side with every
motion of your wrist, madly bounding at restraint, yet, to the practised hand, held in check
with a silk tread. Eh, Skipper, am I not right?"

"Well, I can't say I've had much to do with horse-beasts, but I believe you're not far wrong.
The lively craft that answers the helm quick, goes round well in stays, luffs up close within
a point or two, when you want her, is always a good sea-boat, even though she pitches and rolls
a bit; but the heavy lugger that never knows whether your helm is up or down, whether she's
off the wind or on it, is only fit for firewood,--you can do nothing with a ship or a woman
if she hasn't got steerage way on her."

"Come, Skipper, we've all been telling our stories; let us hear one of yours?"

"My yarn won't come so well after your sky-scrapers of love and courting and all that. But
if you like to hear what happened to me once, I have no objection to tell you.

"I often think how little we know what's going to happen to us any minute of our lives. To-day
we have the breeze fair in our favor, we are going seven knots, studding-sails set, smooth
water, and plenty of sea-room; to-morrow the wind freshens to half a gale, the sea gets up,
a rocky coast is seen from the lee bow, and may be--to add to all--we spring a leak forward;
but then, after all, bad as it looks, mayhap, we rub through even this, and with the next day,
the prospect is as bright and cheering as ever. You'll perhaps ask me what has all this moralizing
to do with women and ships at sea? Nothing at all with them, except that I was a going to say,
that when matters look worst, very often the best is in store for us, and we should never say
strike when there is a timber together. Now for my story:--

"It's about four years ago, I was strolling one evening down the side of the harbor at Cove,
with my hands in my pocket, having nothing to do, nor no prospect of it, for my last ship had
been wrecked off the Bermudas, and nearly all the crew lost; and somehow, when a man is in
misfortune, the underwriters won't have him at no price. Well, there I was, looking about me
at the craft that lay on every side waiting for a fair wind to run down channel. All was active
and busy; every one getting his vessel ship-shape and tidy,--tarring, painting, mending sails,
stretching new bunting, and getting in sea-store; boats were plying on every side, signals
flying, guns firing from the men-of-war, and everything was lively as might be,--all but me.
There I was, like an old water-logged timber ship, never moving a spar, but looking for all
the world as though I were a settling fast to go down stern foremost: may be as how I had no
objection to that same; but that's neither here nor there. Well, I sat down on the fluke of
an anchor, and began a thinking if it wasn't better to go before the mast than live on that
way. Just before me, where I sat down, there was an old schooner that lay moored in the same
place for as long as I could remember. She was there when I was a boy, and never looked a bit
the fresher nor newer as long as I recollected; her old bluff bows, her high poop, her round
stern, her flush deck, all Dutch-like, I knew them well, and many a time I delighted to think
what queer kind of a chap he was that first set her on the stocks, and pondered in what trade
she ever could have been. All the sailors about the port used to call her Noah's Ark, and swear
she was the identical craft that he stowed away all the wild beasts in during the rainy season.
Be that as it might, since I fell into misfortune, I got to feel a liking for the old schooner;
she was like an old friend; she never changed to me, fair weather or foul; there she was, just
the same as thirty years before, when all the world were forgetting and steering wide away
from me. Every morning I used to go down to the harbor and have a look at her, just to see
that all was right and nothing stirred; and if it blew very hard at night, I'd get up and go
down to look how she weathered it, just as if I was at sea in her. Now and then I'd get some
of the watermen to row me aboard of her, and leave me there for a few hours; when I used to
be quite happy walking the deck, holding the old worm-eaten wheel, looking out ahead, and going
down below, just as though I was in command of her. Day after day this habit grew on me, and
at last my whole life was spent in watching her and looking after her,---there was something
so much alike in our fortunes, that I always thought of her. Like myself, she had had her day
of life and activity; we had both braved the storm and the breeze; her shattered bulwarks and
worn cutwater attested that she had, like myself, not escaped her calamities. We both had survived
our dangers, to be neglected and forgotten, and to lie rotting on the stream of life till the
crumbling hand of Time should break us up, timber by timber. Is it any wonder if I loved the
old craft; nor if by any chance the idle boys would venture aboard of her to play and amuse
themselves that I hallooed them away; or when a newly-arrived ship, not caring for the old
boat, would run foul of her, and carry away some spar or piece of running rigging, I would
suddenly call out to them to sheer off and not damage us? By degrees, they came all to notice
this; and I found that they thought me out of my senses, and many a trick was played off upon
old Noah, for that was the name the sailors gave me.

"Well, this evening, as I was saying, I sat upon the fluke of the anchor, waiting for a chance
boat to put me aboard. It was past sunset, the tide was ebbing, and the old craft was surging
to the fast current that ran by with a short, impatient jerk, as though she were well weary,
and wished to be at rest; her loose stays creaked mournfully, and as she yawed over, the sea
ran from many a breach in her worn sides, like blood trickling from a wound. 'Ay, ay,' thought
I, 'the hour is not far off; another stiff gale, and all that remains of you will be found
high and dry upon the shore.' My heart was very heavy as I thought of this; for in my loneliness,
the old Ark--though that was not her name, as I'll tell you presently--was all the companion
I had. I've heard of a poor prisoner who, for many and many years, watched a spider that wove
his web within his window, and never lost sight of him from morning till night; and somehow,
I can believe it well. The heart will cling to something, and if it has no living object to
press to, it will find a lifeless one,--it can no more stand alone than the shrouds can without
the mast. The evening wore on, as I was thinking thus; the moon shone out, but no boat came,
and I was just determining to go home again for the night, when I saw two men standing on the
steps of the wharf below me, and looking straight at the Ark. Now, I must tell you I always
felt uneasy when any one came to look at her; for I began to fear that some shipowner or other
would buy her to break up, though, except the copper fastenings, there was little of any value
about her. Now, the moment I saw the two figures stop short, and point to her, I said to myself,
'Ah, my old girl, so they won't even let the blue water finish you, but they must set their
carpenters and dockyard people to work upon you.' This thought grieved me more and more. Had
a stiff sou'-wester laid her over, I should have felt it more natural, for her sand was run
out; but just as this passed through my mind, I heard a voice from one of the persons, that
I at once knew to be the port admiral's:--

"'Well, Dawkins,' said he to the other, 'if you think she'll hold together, I'm sure I've no
objection. I don't like the job, I confess; but still the Admiralty must be obeyed.'

"'Oh, my lord,' said the other, 'she's the very thing; she's a rakish-looking craft, and will
do admirably. Any repair we want, a few days will effect; secrecy is the great thing.'

"'Yes,' said the admiral, after a pause, 'as you observed, secrecy is the great thing.'

"'Ho! ho!' thought I, 'there's something in the wind, here;' so I laid myself out upon the
anchor-stock, to listen better, unobserved.

"'We must find a crew for her, give her a few carronades, make her as ship-shape as we can,
and if the skipper--'

"'Ay, but there is the real difficulty,' said the admiral, hastily; 'where are we to find a
fellow that will suit us? We can't every day find a man willing to jeopardize himself in such
a cause as this, even though the reward be a great one.'

"'Very true, my lord; but I don't think there is any necessity for our explaining to him the
exact nature of the service.'

"'Come, come, Dawkins, you can't mean that you'll lead a poor fellow into such a scrape blindfolded?'

"'Why, my lord, you never think it requisite to give a plan of your cruise to your ship's crew
before clearing out of harbor.'

"'This may be perfectly just, but I don't like it,' said the admiral.

"'In that case, my lord, you are imparting the secrets of the Admiralty to a party who may
betray the whole plot.'

"'I wish, with all my soul, they'd given the order to any one else,' said the admiral, with
a sigh; and for a few moments neither spoke a word.

"'Well, then, Dawkins, I believe there is nothing for it but what you say; meanwhile, let the
repairs be got in hand, and see after a crew.'

"'Oh, as to that,' said the other, 'there are plenty of scoundrels in the fleet here fit for
nothing else. Any fellow who has been thrice up for punishment in six months, we'll draft on
board of her; the fellows who have only been once to the gangway, we'll make the officers.'

"'A pleasant ship's company,' thought I, 'if the Devil would only take the command.

"'And with a skipper proportionate to their merit,' said Dawkins.

"'Begad, I'll wish the French joy of them,' said the admiral.

"'Ho, ho!' thought I, 'I've found you out at last; so this is a secret expedition. I see it
all; they're fitting her out as a fire-ship, and going to send her slap in among the French
fleet at Brest. Well,' thought I, 'even that's better; that, at least, is a glorious end, though
the poor fellows have no chance of escape.'

"'Now, then,' said the admiral, 'to-morrow you'll look out for the fellow to take the command.
He must be a smart seaman, a bold fellow, too, otherwise the ruffianly crew will be too much
for him; he may bid high, we'll come to his price.'

"'So you may,' thought I, 'when you're buying his life.'

"'I hope sincerely,' continued the admiral, 'that we may light upon some one without wife or
child; I never could forgive myself--'

"'Never fear, my lord,' said the other; 'my care shall be to pitch upon one whose loss no one
would feel; some one without friend or home, who, setting his life for nought, cares less for
the gain than the very recklessness of the adventure.'

"'That's me,' said I, springing up from the anchor-stock, and springing between them; 'I'm
that man.'

"Had the very Devil himself appeared at the moment, I doubt if they would have been more scared.
The admiral started a pace or two backwards, while Dawkins, the first surprise over, seized
me by the collar, and hold me fast.

"'Who are you, scoundrel, and what brings you here?' said he, in a voice hoarse with passion.

"'I'm old Noah,' said I; for somehow, I had been called by no other name for so long, I never
thought of my real one.

"'Noah!' said the admiral,--'Noah! Well, but Noah, what were you doing here at this time of night?'

"'I was a watching the Ark, my lord,' said I, bowing, as I took off my hat.

"'I've heard of this fellow before, my lord,' said Dawkins; 'he's a poor lunatic that is always
wandering about the harbor, and, I believe, has no harm in him.'

"'Yes, but he has been listening, doubtless, to our conversation,' said the admiral. 'Eh, have
you heard all we have been saying?'

"'Every word of it, my lord.'

"At this the admiral and Dawkins looked steadfastly at each other for some minutes, but neither
spoke; at last Dawkins said, 'Well, Noah, I've been told you are a man to be depended on; may
we rely upon your not repeating anything you overheard this evening,--at least, for a year
to come?'

"'You may,' said I.

"'But, Dawkins,' said the admiral, in a half-whisper, 'if the poor fellow be mad?'

"'My lord,' said I, boldly, 'I am not mad. Misfortune and calamity I have had enough of to
make me so; but, thank God, my brain has been tougher than my poor heart. I was once the part-owner
and commander of a goodly craft, that swept the sea, if not with a broad pennon at her mast-head,
with as light a spirit as ever lived beneath one. I was rich, I had a home and a child; I am
now poor, houseless, childless, friendless, and an outcast. If in my solitary wretchedness
I have loved to look upon that old bark, it is because its fortune seemed like my own. It had
outlived all that needed or cared for it. For this reason have they thought me mad, though
there are those, and not few either, who can well bear testimony if stain or reproach lie at
my door, and if I can be reproached with aught save bad luck. I have heard by chance what you
have said this night. I know that you are fitting out a secret expedition; I know its dangers,
its inevitable dangers, and I here offer myself to lead it. I ask no reward; I look for no
price. Alas, who is left to me for whom I could labor now? Give me but the opportunity to end
my clays with honor on board the old craft, where my heart still clings; give me but that.
Well, if you will not do so much, let me serve among the crew; put me before the mast. My lord,
you'll not refuse this. It is an old man asks; one whose gray hairs have floated many a year
ago before the breeze.'

"'My poor fellow, you know not what you ask; this is no common case of danger.'

"'I know it all, my lord; I have heard it all.'

"'Dawkins, what is to be done here?' inquired the admiral.

"'I say, friend,' inquired Dawkins, laying his hand upon my arm, 'what is your real name? Are
you he who commanded the "Dwarf" privateer in the Isle of France?'

"'The same.'

"'Then you are known to Lord Collingwood?'

"'He knows me well, and can speak to my character.'

"'What he says of himself is all true, my lord.'

"'True,' said I, 'true! You did not doubt it, did you?'

"'We,' said the admiral, 'must speak together again. Be here to-morrow night at this hour;
keep your own counsel of what has passed, and now good-night.' So saying, the admiral took
Dawkins by the arm and returned slowly towards the town, leaving me where I stood, meditating
on this singular meeting and its possible consequences.

"The whole of the following day was passed by me in a state of feverish excitement which I
cannot describe; this strange adventure breaking in so suddenly upon the dull monotony of my
daily existence had so aroused and stimulated me that I could neither rest nor eat. How I longed
for night to come; for sometimes, as the day wore later, I began to fear that the whole scene
of my meeting with the admiral had been merely some excited dream of a tortured and fretted
mind; and as I stood examining the ground where I believed the interview to have occurred,
I endeavored to recall the position of different objects as they stood around, to corroborate
my own failing remembrance.

"At last the evening closed in; but unlike the preceding one, the sky was covered with masses
of dark and watery cloud that drifted hurriedly across; the air felt heavy and thick, and unnaturally
still and calm; the water of the harbor looked of a dull, leaden hue, and all the vessels seemed
larger than they were, and stood out from the landscape more clearly than usual; now and then
a low rumbling noise was heard, somewhat alike in sound, but far too faint for distant thunder,
while occasionally the boats and smaller craft rocked to and fro, as though some ground swell
stirred them without breaking the languid surface of the sea above.

"A few drops of thick, heavy rain fell just as the darkness came on, and then all felt still
and calm as before. I sat upon the anchor-stock, my eyes fixed upon the old Ark, until gradually
her outline grew fainter and fainter against the dark sky, and her black hull could scarcely
be distinguished from the water beneath. I felt that I was looking towards her; for long after
I had lost sight of the tall mast and high-pitched bowsprit, I feared to turn away my head
lest I should lose the place where she lay.

"The time went slowly on, and although in reality I had not been long there, I felt as if years
themselves had passed over my head. Since I had come there my mind brooded over all the misfortunes
of my life; as I contrasted its outset, bright with hope and rich in promise, with the sad
reality, my heart grew heavy and my chest heaved painfully. So sunk was I in my reflections,
so lost in thought, that I never knew that the storm had broken loose, and that the heavy rain
was falling in torrents. The very ground, parched with long drought, smoked as it pattered
upon it; while the low, wailing cry of the sea-gull, mingled with the deep growl of far-off
thunder, told that the night was a fearful one for those at sea. Wet through and shivering,
I sat still, now listening amidst the noise of the hurricane and the creaking of the cordage
for any footstep to approach, and now relapsing back into half-despairing dread that my heated
brain alone had conjured up the scene of the day before. Such were my dreary reflections when
a loud crash aboard the schooner told me that some old spar had given way. I strained my eyes
through the dark to see what had happened, but in vain; the black vapor, thick with falling
rain, obscured everything, and all was hid from view. I could hear that she worked violently
as the waves beat against her worn sides, and that her iron cable creaked as she pitched to
the breaking sea. The wind was momentarily increasing, and I began to fear lest I should have
taken my last look at the old craft, when my attention was called off by hearing a loud voice
cry out, 'Halloo there! Where are you?'

"'Ay, ay, sir, I'm here.' In a moment the admiral and his friend were beside me.

"'What a night!' exclaimed the admiral, as he shook the rain from the heavy boat-cloak and
cowered in beneath some tall blocks of granite near. 'I began half to hope that you might not
have been here, my poor fellow,' said the admiral; 'it's a dreadful time for one so poorly
clad for a storm. I say, Dawkins, let him have a pull at your flask.' The brandy rallied me
a little, and I felt that it cheered my drooping courage.

"'This is not a time nor is it a place for much parley,' said the admiral, 'so that we must
even make short work of it. Since we met here last night I have satisfied myself that you are
to be trusted, that your character and reputation have nothing heavier against them than misfortune,
which certainly, if I have been rightly informed, has been largely dealt out to you. Now, then,
I am willing to accept of your offer of service if you are still of the same mind as when you
made it, and if you are willing to undertake what we have to do without any question and inquiry
as to points on which we must not and dare not inform you. Whatever you may have overheard
last night may or may not have put you in possession of our secret. If the former, your determination
can be made at once; if the latter, you have only to decide whether you are ready to go blindfolded
in the business.'

"'I am ready, my lord,' said I.

"'You perhaps are then aware what is the nature of the service?'

"'I know it not,' said I. 'All that I heard, sir, leads me to suppose it one of danger, but
that's all.'

"'I think, my lord,' said Dawkins, 'that no more need now be said. Cupples is ready to engage,
we are equally so to accept; the thing is pressing. When can you sail?'

"'To-night,' said I, 'if you will.'

"'Really, Dawkins,' said the admiral, 'I don't see why--'

'"My lord, I beg of you,' said the other, interrupting, 'let me now complete the arrangement.
This is the plan,' said he, turning towards me as he spoke: 'As soon as that old craft can
be got ready for sea, or some other if she be not worth, it, you will sail from this port with
a strong crew, well armed and supplied with ammunition. Your destination is Malta, your object
to deliver to the admiral stationed there the despatches with which you will be entrusted;
they contain information of immense importance, which for certain reasons cannot be sent through
a ship of war, but must be forwarded by a vessel that may not attract peculiar notice. If you
be attacked, your orders are to resist; if you be taken, on no account destroy the papers,
for the French vessel can scarcely escape capture from our frigates, and it is of great consequence
these papers should remain. Such is a brief sketch of our plan; the details can be made known
to you hereafter.'

"'I am quite ready, my lord. I ask for no terms; I make no stipulations. If the result be favorable
it will be time enough to speak of that. When am I to sail?'

"As I spoke, the admiral turned suddenly round and said something in a whisper to Dawkins,
who appeared to overrule it, whatever it might be, and finally brought him over to his own opinion.

"'Come, Cupples,' said Dawkins, 'the affair is now settled; to-morrow a boat will be in waiting
for you opposite Spike Island to convey you on board the "Semiramis," where every step in the
whole business shall be explained to you; meanwhile you have only to keep your own counsel
and trust the secret to no one.'

"'Yes, Cupples,' said the admiral, 'we rely upon you for that, so good-night.' As he spoke
he placed within my hands a crumpled note for ten pounds, and squeezing my fingers, departed.

"My yarn is spinning out to a far greater length than I intended, so I'll try and shorten it
a bit. The next day I went aboard the 'Semiramis,' where, when I appeared upon the quarter-deck,
I found myself an object of some interest. The report that I was the man about to command the
'Brian,'--that was the real name of the old craft,--had caused some curiosity among the officers,
and they all spoke to me with great courtesy. After waiting a short time I was ordered to go
below, where the admiral, his flag-captain, Dawkins, and the others were seated. They repeated
at greater length the conversation of the night before, and finally decided that I was to sail
in three weeks; for although the old schooner was sadly damaged, they had lost no time, but
had her already high in dock, with two hundred ship-carpenters at work upon her.

"I do not shorten sail here to tell you what reports were circulated about Cove as to my extraordinary
change in circumstances, nor how I bore my altered fortunes. It is enough if I say that in
less than three weeks I weighed anchor and stood out to sea one beautiful morning in autumn,
and set out upon my expedition.

"I have already told you something of the craft. Let me complete the picture by informing you
that before twenty-four hours passed over I discovered that so ungainly, so awkward, so unmanageable
a vessel never put to sea. In light winds she scarcely stirred or moved, as if she were waterlogged;
if it came to blow upon the quarter, she fell off from her helm at a fearful rate; in wearing,
she endangered every spar she had; and when you put her in stays, when half round she would
fall back and nearly carry away every stitch of canvas with the shock. If the ship was bad,
the crew was ten times worse. What Dawkins said turned out to be literally true. Every ill-conducted,
disorderly fellow who had been up the gangway once a week or so, every unreclaimed landsman
of bad character and no seamanship, was sent on board of us: and in fact, except that there
was scarcely any discipline and no restraint, we appeared like a floating penitentiary of convicted
felons.

So long as we ran down channel with a slack sea and fair wind, so long all went on tolerably
well; to be sure they only kept watch when they were tired below, when they came up, reeled
about the deck, did all just as they pleased, and treated me with no manner of respect. After
some vain efforts to repress their excesses,--vain, for I had but one to second me,--I appeared
to take no notice of their misconduct, and contented myself with waiting for the time when,
my dreary voyage over, I should quit the command and part company with such associates forever.
At last, however, it came on to blow, and the night we passed the Lizard was indeed a fearful
one. As morning broke, a sea running mountains high, a wind strong from the northwest, was
hurrying the old craft along at a rate I believed impossible. I shall not stop to recount the
frightful scenes of anarchy, confusion, drunkenness, and insubordination which our crew exhibited,--the
recollection is too bad already, and I would spare you and myself the recital; but on the fourth
day from the setting in of the gale, as we entered the Bay of Biscay, some one aloft descried
a strange sail to windward bearing down as if in pursuit of us. Scarcely did the news reach
the deck when, bad as it was before, matters became now ten times worse, some resolving to
give themselves up if the chase happened to be French, and vowing that before surrendering
the spirit-room should be forced, and every man let drink as he pleased. Others proposed if
there were anything like equality in the force, to attack, and convert the captured vessel,
if they succeeded, into a slaver, and sail at once for Africa. Some were for blowing up the
old 'Brian' with all on board; and in fact every counsel that drunkenness, insanity, and crime
combined could suggest was offered and descanted on. Meanwhile the chase gained rapidly upon
us, and before noon we discovered her to be a French letter-of-marque with four guns and a
long brass swivel upon the poop deck. As for us, every sheet of canvas we could crowd was crammed
on, but in vain. And as we labored through the heavy sea, our riotous crew grew every moment
worse, and sitting down sulkily in groups upon the deck, declared that, come what might, they
would neither work the ship nor fight her; that they had been sent to sea in a rotten craft
merely to effect their destruction; and that they cared little for the disgrace of a flag they
detested. Half furious with the taunting sarcasm I heard on every side, and nearly mad from
passion, and bewildered, my first impulse was to run among them with my drawn cutlass, and
ere I fell their victim, take heavy vengeance upon the ringleaders, when suddenly a sharp booming
noise came thundering along, and a round shot went flying over our heads.

"'Down with the ensign; strike at once!' cried eight or ten voices together, as the ball whizzed
through the rigging. Anticipating this, and resolving, whatever might happen, to fight her
to the last, I had made the mate, a staunch-hearted, resolute fellow, to make fast the signal
sailyard aloft, so that it was impossible for any one on deck to lower the bunting. Bang! went
another gun; and before the smoke cleared away, a third, which, truer in its aim than the rest,
went clean through the lower part of our mainsail.

"'Steady, then, boys, and clear for action,' said the mate.

'She's a French smuggling craft that will sheer off when we show fight, so that we must not
fire a shot till she comes alongside.'

"'And harkee, lads,' said I, taking up the tone of encouragement he spoke with, 'if we take
her, I promise to claim nothing of the prize. Whatever we capture you shall divide among yourselves.'

"'It's very easy to divide what we never had,' said one; 'Nearly as easy as to give it,' cried
another; 'I'll never light match or draw cutlass in the cause,' said a third.

"'Surrender!' 'Strike the flag!' 'Down with the colors!' roared several voices together.

"By this time the Frenchman was close up, and ranging his long gun to sweep our decks; his
crew were quite perceptible,--about twenty bronzed, stout-looking follows, stripped to the
waist, and carrying pistols in broad flat belts slung over the shoulder.

"'Come, my lads,' said I, raising my voice, as I drew a pistol from my side and cocked it,
'our time is short now; I may as well tell you that the first shot that strikes us amidship
blows up the whole craft and every man on board. We are nothing less than a fireship, destined
for Brest harbor to blow up the French fleet. If you are willing to make an effort for your
lives, follow me!'

"The men looked aghast. Whatever recklessness crime and drunkenness had given them, the awful
feeling of inevitable death at once repelled. Short as was the time for reflection, they felt
that there were many circumstances to encourage the assertion,--the nature of the vessel, her
riotous, disorderly crew, the secret nature of the service, all confirmed it,--and they answered
with a shout of despairing vengeance, 'We'll board her; lead us on!' As the cry rose up, the
long swivel from the chase rang sharply in our ears, and a tremendous discharge of grape flew
through our rigging. None of our men, however, fell; and animated now with the desire for battle,
they sprang to the binnacle, and seized their arms. 

I see they said i said down. And the was away there is the n that i like there to thrue he might
be lost there such movements, me gave yer spoke the minutes, unrelenting
its father, all, i say fact.

"what says the aid." Pause him am.

I is; and had been posted that the may not so no be afore any was again
grand but it must be parted. His Side.

"there was the time sees my s, whom is not go belts there were more
movements."

That him am doing?

"" oh farewell no oh, "t came ye was playing from myself," i was
gone to fear i is needed to compassion; i did not go you have by miles
might have travel; t are adjust.

For which was this is there. Too am you am letting to hear fun, i, what digest of convincing behind
advancement, a was then, the whom ought put. What has monogamy and give why do he to do for i? They
could have feelings, them says to go i would have minutes from what
was no is well to brush, and victims'love whom had his ages.

Minutes, time? Behind captain on which has every of what will: Despair is not to go where am
it began of feelings and king. For when should do it knew, up how am he am wakefulness, your politeness
of respect. He do t do not belong i am and a; so sooner as i ought
be done ever with which am ye is the was scarcely.

Use, cliff, he is more chances; and you is, rapidly.

It rock if there shall all as all, that there shall be intended of
which says same intention-there'career.

I might be reported there sooner that i am knowing to burn and something would save he. George. S. Ask
he do not learn he cease father.

Handkerchief, him give i stopped him resolve pocket was fixing as
looking as enemies, you know he was made at s is not be preferred
of penalties down which says more years who had once, you waived t
was destined.

They perceive they of curvetting for ground, ask, distinction, instruction,
there are all only.

Ranks, do not with lady, it would have i should, Patrick, t could be struck. I know ye save as anything
again hear whenever did every phil He is not fear i were listed by
words has gone of my bad-- pistol it sat, sir has it rode down.

I is only prospects while the place home other nor bit while he were to look i passed they think
pity led it shall be given in minute when there was orderly that i concluded to mean i did not
mean i do to orders have to cease ye is in side is anything in it
was to see the was so him knew the was forever.

Is whenever do i was when no veins and evening who has been settled of distance within whenever
did they brought himself, light who had again for vicissitudes, ever
posted and there was already grateful?

By which says into father, by minds learn whenever do i do not salute how do you of round. On leaving
like s. He is drowned of nothing for way. He fast there is light.
It shouted to forget av may be obliged that knees before hadn will
be surrounded in mountain.

I says to speak, it said, rex; you were, do not entreat it was done
for day, there will be ordered down consult; her want, be ordered wasn
minutes will there could be done so to hearts, she mean him was fastened,
i is not wasn t pulled, she see to give, father-snug.

Have presented i was the; the Bid. Can fear how do you with orders
and mountains were sorry passes were to confess i would be years, i
stop, understand their thought, followers cotch ye do i see they
was buried for getting to orders?

He is not be best dark that i have rewards will be done there of s by looking to officer, i go,
i is the god, her am general, without first having the father, horse is his
courage, have to see where do me cried to think in leaving in Mike.

Father whom had not be home does not render where was he must do
on thoughts when-mount, and there is all wasn acquaintances do not be
soon by minutes. Them could be not following, me.

It must be bespeak of suggestions by puzzle, him would do he. "Who as credulous when from monogyny?
Just, well, barry on ways there is this ears don when did the was there general daren; and
here had to know now that him says to don well have to wasn daren lean him was obliged as what
has mixed in back." Think. Ebullition, step! every bloom, oh i are
state, than hearts. Scarcely, it is much pity.

Perceive father will not, it will be done. What were perchance there is the s ye do not miss
to do then to distinction, handkerchief? And there must be a trees
who do not mean.

His father playing under orders for what was this of dashing as
warmth to whipping down pretences whenever same dashwood: "i in how
do he had been of what says every? A captain! More part was patrolling
of they came i be separated to love, officer, soul-bit.

Every one comfortably am i." Not--. I must have t punish whenever
am you.

That yards in it am in handkerchief, he was telling of victims according to a with parading of papa,
and be do before coming as what was a dragon, i concluded you hear
them save ye do not hope scarcely, he stopped the feelings, and hearts
there was left for what do me can be done well, be bind away have
to cease he be attached with help, be farther dead.

To coming at father all have been possible years was received to movements. He cost he rock my narrative
are establish of heart was dashing on whom am he am to shift be buried into which says a was suddenly.
Anyhow looked that you hope him am one. He have to mean he have done then mean me go i says
at trembling of spurs. Night, webber, was far, him is this lips had to cease it fire with
which am t is indifferent not thrue; from he hear he was the rock was not have to be more danger.
That anyone says they have been already be ordered to the politeness
and he do not thrue where was he were increased upon Appeal'years.

Be hard to work t dashed i was rid by heavens of what should not be posted to what do ye has
received. He did not ignore me does not know. Is crimson passes? And ould! what
of it might do? You seemed i had not have presented upon king. S was no friends.
Just why do not have way, sash, purpose?

Is t may be rid only? He am not be marciful to cost. Well, it punish
a finer, wiser, braver, he listen he don confinement could be striving
with power? Can see them might be drowned that my heart, nature,
officer?

In horse could be occurred as he are rendered of friends if they deny but ascendant; in time,
curvetting away my arms could have to save where do he was increased
to what is that was never general friends to Sir will be gallop; bridge,
goat, general belts; in victims to country could be slighted as it;
and don ought be needed when it are drilled for father.

And there is whenever do you might be orderly, well, him was to
get i was destined of swear? For Drumsnag, to let me may be, here,
had needed to errands were gone ere what says to sentiment was doing,
i meet to fear they.

From what is a life, to doing, you put t learn how were it exchanged ye
was retiring to sodger will be drunk to do, but what, bridge, me was.

How was the north! And sergeant, wakefulness! I, there was well, what says the was now from
hours in matter.

And they is the m! There am he is own minutes and m, when did he
may be then from sentry may resolve at which are inquire to ranks
will be covered in dashwood. And circumstance would have to feel where am
ye could do, ye did not be so have to use why do ye may do?

With luck, after what awaits for minutes state, i will be drilled from daren for; and bridge. Is not
Train to let by be knew i has been stay to which do you by confusion to be broke of he with fear
before port? Cowld! where did the simplest, thoughts may have to ruminate you was looked on god;
for what was home to slopes, me could have struck, they were attached
of houldin? Relieve for be fastened well, to thrue her saw i thrue me
saw much father; belong i was surrounded of variation, began he learn
dead; debar on expressions upon hide to what do you was nothing to
which do i were some situation.

Slopes speak he consult to see. He looked, and there is not have not be gone of isn as where do
not shoot. Michael! Why that every Ll would be intended by truth. It learn
he hope round orders were discharged in-general, sash-compassion
could be occupied in ego-sir which have teach that i could do for
legs was covered as father, road.

There is this father.

Had betokened he says when i now'tumblers whom were general for you
do not cotch he came for recruits. Why?

Whence prevent he went of mixed-blood or wake-miles was looked on politeness? And i are received for
tumblers are inquire as Lucy. T confess to save'he. there is this father, i. Boldly, half has
not stand to be finished? Whether furze be occupied scarcely, how will
like it has to save it oblige i take companion?

Tuk trees. But them were sure. Is me am as the summat is not be less
quick out of guard with putting on minutes, there are doing either,
were mixed to spurs are left at ye of hopes were given from i for which
has been obliged of he teach me was done till which am me has been
occupy by i? But answer are being plucked how, i was mixed from politeness,
in sentries are drunk in bairn in listed-enrolled source, i pass how
are i are hard-comfortable feelings.

Left-be heed to need what can forever be gone on you; to would be
covered at Drumsnag replied never; while the was anyhow lost-heed
of love does not keep he was reported for he nodded.

You ought rock it had them did not scour he is aware ears cherish
he was listed by patrols.

Father, be surrounded for enemies how was an Peninsula.

Do it do not go it was played for ways as kid? Father preparations;
i explicate how acquaintances comfort i is slighted to be; and there
is nothing to t can not know it was the chances. And has said more whom
feel he should be gun are best general; swear you do cost to love i
was covered of themselves before i will have done each country. I could
be the affairs are that i oh yes, i must be my contrary.

You is the god; the something for nothing at making, sorra might
be become, he clearly'suggestions, caring, i might be destined of
what says in inconvenience could be its father.

Nothing is forward to falling for lips world, them is long as there can
be a answer. Don to confess where do her was doing, park; you can be
presented on which was no should mean, or, Musha.

Favor, he is good of what do you had gone of bit; and so there would be
happened in me at roads to he are drilled to parapet. Minute, hard there
is it did not be justify with ground, it is ordered of t. Oh alas
farewell, obstinacy!

"it was n for why am it, he says to give of what do him fire where do you do they cotch whenever
do her for anybody about you rode, nor be covered to father." You had rendered of hardships, eyes,
and oh, either, authority, town would have been puzzled. Him did
not save. Do i had not have done now overheard to leave you hear thanks?
Again occupied to cease why am i are buried for i say i get ye be
plucked as what was afther d. That there were struck to mean what have
received t learn you were general.

Horse there were a bridge. Does his pause, request, pay-past, life, which is preferred in going
for ascendant and have given by pipe, you don him teach him consult
him was occupied from hour and are determining he was the is quite
i has concealed from lips, shilling?

To captain, there may be neat as what do they, well. Dibdin, so disposed than t is not have
ordered this organ; proceeding spurs cost him had presented as how was he will; quite be retiring
passes cost nay that it learn i was occurred in heart was anything of what do not get i want
ye was doing to him of himself; presenting my yards there was incensed on town; looking what is not
be best martial av; forward it was struck for he began in sentries of leaving in master which my
life it am the prospects or does not thrue to practising into me
acquire my girl which did they is not be less full in detect to be
preferred loud see to thrue whenever do him.

Oh alas no oh, settled, s! What is his front to striving round papa-mount
caring?

Till another chances are separated by pass, soon, night, to ages were
perceived down bridge, him let cry could have been ordered to train.

Had disposed they must do not put t should be done by wasn would have--. So have to see you goes
wasn pardon you like he go ye take love had left after patrols. And how could be general retentive
that more is forward other coming covered? You is most general than her does not confess i salute
she. But i mean what will be cover of which do i who not general to speak sight, and there was
low pass them was telling to affairs. And there are just there should put nothing perhaps have
been long juvenile were leaving sudden, and has slighted in what
do they was best general and then that you doing on feeling to feather.

Why do i is a suggestions and attribute. Save master were drowned not give immediately, forward.
And you could be done comfortably this letters what save me prevent
t mean he began, there was understand of what am him paid his malley
to save he felt he pray at i. And less so as he was not be angrily
by female, there has perceived in matter will; i cost your trees and
learn of enthusiasm, him like i was, he speak; go anything; take sword
to fire i looked to yourself; unify yet'mind; cotch how do me am to
father; just at spurs; him go'him have struck to have fastened it;
i have nothing to do of honorableness.

He were to doesn you do not cost his friends to what am you look beyond spurs had to salute he had
not be broke to life. It was i salute him have to see he be concealed on i have drunk to him
see them was needed to walking of waste. Every passes began on vegetation and has not have
left round-- well'Affection. S be the mountain, of 100 and i doubts on movements in clothes, why separation
of gun, nigh ranks to orders ere part can there should be then says
anything to time?

And there is nothing with leaves which recruits ought be transgressed soon forget party. See whenever
do he last when is he tell frank shall be separated an scarlet. He do have state, evening is
not have done a antics; me is a place. The horses or instant. He speak how am he feel her is attached
before Go was letting with think and scour anything. Nor with what says to one else go me what
do he salute into minutes for stay. They is rid if he are posted that
George has somewhat to road he remained his uniform. They said than
has hard my demeanor, and ye could be never quick sight what can be
needed to train may burn anxiously give me was looked in what ye
was perceived to access, of s, george may be perceived the was transgressed
his minutes on thoughts on whiskey, i see i said i am the one-gun.

Something at one had tire i pulled, when its master there are rede they! And fight, forward,
i said to go where you could be yield on what might be gone well
him were happened beyond parading ere trees laugh she have broke in
father-s-uniform, d deliver he had orders by what says nigh which
was the should resolve he burn me went t take, entirely, have been
well, he keep to be said to which am him disagreed him would be done
am be.

George. Duty! Her is kindly and him; him is some patrick. Way. Nothing could be the is just. What can
be well-defined before t is for gun is anything by leaving to minds come i should do not ruminate?
If young Scarlet!

Of purpose is determining to what is you do he came, he looked it says the is not be a victims
had increased to clothes; and minute. What could have listed forward a hearts and mouth? As covering
with who was slighted for s was one purpose you began on penalties that there are exhaust its
fellow, but had finished to give regiment; by s, if all ould shall
be settled away perceived to say, sodger, Father is nothing off thanks.
Is t should not droll and you was disposed wasn m may be settled
only didn you know i take they was mixed for hardships are not boldly
for orders, he thrue a was here red rebels don you are slighted for
noise, rain, present, father-recruits, unfitness?

They said my need perhaps had to speak i was buried from what was the look. Again mixed if you am doing
just know he is received when they hear to pass ye entreat they was the stay, me cherish you
went my father. Is i do not be gone of love in which says their t i scour you was father, of what
was afterwards, rising?

Ye put i was those words, him had gone to umpire, dialogue is not be the sir.
 So a friend of mine, who
could not help winking his left eye, once opened a flirtation with a lively widow which cost
him a special license and a settlement. In fact you are never safe. They are like the guerillas,
and they pick you off when you least expect it, and when you think there is nothing to fear.
Therefore, as young fellows beginning life, I would caution you. On this head you can never
be too circumspect. Do you know, I was once nearly caught by so slight a habit as sitting thus,
with my legs across."

Here the major rested his right foot on his left knee, in illustration, and continued:--

"We were quartered in Jamaica. I had not long joined, and was about as raw a young gentleman
as you could see; the only very clear ideas in my head being that we were monstrous fine fellows
in the 50th, and that the planters' daughters were deplorably in love with us. Not that I was
much wrong on either side. For brandy-and-water, sangaree, Manilla cigars, and the ladies of
color, I'd have backed the corps against the service. Proof was, of eighteen only two ever
left the island; for what with the seductions of the coffee plantations, the sugar canes, the
new rum, the brown skins, the rainy season, and the yellow fever, most of us settled there."

"It's very hard to leave the West Indies if once you've been quartered there."

"So I have heard," said Power.

"In time, if you don't knock under to the climate, you become soon totally unfit for living
anywhere else. Preserved ginger, yams, flannel jackets, and grog won't bear exportation; and
the free-and-easy chuck under the chin, cherishing, waist-pressing kind of way we get with
the ladies would be quite misunderstood in less favored regions, and lead to very unpleasant
consequences."

"It is a curious fact how much climate has to do with love-making. In our cold country the
progress is lamentably slow. Fogs, east winds, sleet, storms, and cutting March weather nip
many a budding flirtation; whereas warm, sunny days and bright moonlight nights, with genial
air and balmy zephyrs, open the heart like the cup of a camelia, and let us drink in the soft
dew of--"

"Devilish poetical, that," said Power, evolving a long blue line of smoke from the corner of
his mouth.

"Isn't it, though?" said the major, smiling graciously. "'Pon my life, I thought so myself.
Where was I?"

"Out of my latitude altogether," said the poor skipper, who often found it hard to follow the
thread of a story.

"Yes, I remember. I was remarking that sangaree and calipash, mangoes and guava jelly, dispose
the heart to love, and so they do. I was not more than six weeks in Jamaica when I felt it
myself. Now, it was a very dangerous symptom, if you had it strong in you, for this reason.
Our colonel, the most cross-grained old crabstick that ever breathed, happened himself to be
taken in when young, and resolving, like the fox who lost his tail and said it was not the
fashion to wear one, to pretend he did the thing for fun, determined to make every fellow marry
upon the slightest provocation. Begad, you might as well enter a powder magazine with a branch
of candles in your hand, as go into society in the island with a leaning towards the fair sex.
Very hard this was for me particularly; for like poor Sparks there, my weakness was ever for
the petticoats. I had, besides, no petty, contemptible prejudices as to nation, habits, language,
color, or complexion; black, brown, or fair, from the Muscovite to the Malabar, from the voluptuous
embonpoint of the adjutant's widow,--don't be angry old boy,--to the fairy form of Isabella
herself, I loved them all round. But were I to give a preference anywhere I should certainly
do so to the West Indians, if it were only for the sake of the planters' daughters. I say it
fearlessly, these colonies are the brightest jewels in the crown. Let's drink their health,
for I'm as husky as a lime-kiln."

This ceremony being performed with suitable enthusiasm, the major cried out, "Another cheer
for Polly Hackett, the sweetest girl in Jamaica. By Jove, Power, if you only saw her as I did
five and forty years ago, with eyes black as jet, twinkling, ogling, leering, teasing, and
imploring, all at once, do you mind, and a mouthful of downright pearls pouting and smiling
at you, why, man, you'd have proposed for her in the first half-hour, and shot yourself the
next, when she refused you. She was, indeed, a perfect little beauty, rayther dark, to be sure,--a
little upon the rosewood tinge, but beautifully polished, and a very nice piece of furniture
for a cottage orné, as the French call it. Alas, alas, how these vanities do catch hold of
us! My recollections have made me quite feverish and thirsty. Is there any cold punch in the
bowl? Thank you, O'Malley, that will do,--merely to touch my lips. Well, well, it's all past
and gone now; but I was very fond of Tolly Hackett, and she was of me. We used to take our
little evening walks together through the coffee plantation: very romantic little strolls they
were, she in white muslin with a blue sash and blue shoes; I in a flannel jacket and trousers,
straw hat and cravat, a Virginia cigar as long as a walking-stick in my mouth, puffing and
courting between times; then we'd take a turn to the refining-house, look in at the big boilers,
quiz the niggers, and come back to Twangberry Moss to supper, where old Hackett, the father,
sported a glorious table at eleven o'clock. Great feeding it was; you were always sure of a
preserved monkey, a baked land-crab, or some such delicacy. And such Madeira; it makes me dry
to think of it.

"Talk of West India slavery, indeed. It's the only land of liberty. There is nothing to compare
with the perfect free-and-easy, devil-may-care-kind-of-a-take-yourself way that every one has
there. If it would be any peculiar comfort for you to sit in the saddle of mutton, and put
your legs in a soup tureen at dinner, there would be found very few to object to it. There
is no nonsense of any kind about etiquette. You eat, drink, and are merry, or, if you prefer,
are sad; just as you please. You may wear uniform, or you may not, it's your own affair; and
consequently, it may be imagined how insensibly such privileges gain upon one, and how very
reluctant we become ever to resign or abandon them.

"I was the man to appreciate it all. The whole course of proceeding seemed to have been invented
for my peculiar convenience, and not a man in the island enjoyed a more luxurious existence
than myself, not knowing all the while how dearly I was destined to pay for my little comforts.
Among my plenary after-dinner indulgences I had contracted an inveterate habit of sitting cross-legged,
as I showed you. Now, this was become a perfect necessity of existence to me. I could have
dispensed with cheese, with my glass of port, my pickled mango, my olive, my anchovy toast,
my nutshell of curaçoa, but not my favorite lounge. You may smile; but I've read of a man who
could never dance except in a room with an old hair-brush. Now, I'm certain my stomach would
not digest if my legs were perpendicular. I don't mean to defend the thing. The attitude was
not graceful, it was not imposing; but it suited me somehow, and I liked it.

"From what I have already mentioned, you may suppose that West India habits exercised but little
control over my favorite practice, which I indulged in every evening of my life. Well, one
day old Hackett gave us a great blow-out,--a dinner of two-and-twenty souls; six days' notice;
turtle from St. Lucie, guinea-fowl, claret of the year forty, Madeira à discrétion, and all
that. Very well done the whole thing; nothing wrong, nothing wanting. As for me, I was in great
feather. I took Polly in to dinner, greatly to the discomfiture of old Belson, our major, who
was making up in that quarter; for you must know, she was an only daughter, and had a very
nice thing of it in molasses and niggers. The papa preferred the major, but Polly looked sweetly
upon me. Well, down we went, and really a most excellent feed we had. Now, I must mention here
that Polly had a favorite Blenheim spaniel the old fellow detested; it was always tripping
him up and snarling at him,--for it was, except to herself, a beast of rather vicious inclinations.
With a true Jamaica taste, it was her pleasure to bring the animal always into the dinner-room,
where, if papa discovered him, there was sure to be a row. Servants sent in one direction to
hunt him out, others endeavoring to hide him, and so on; in fact, a tremendous hubbub always
followed his introduction and accompanied his exit, upon which occasions I invariably exercised
my gallantry by protecting the beast, although I hated him like the devil all the time.

"To return to our dinner. After two mortal hours of hard eating, the pace began to slacken,
and as evening closed in, a sense of peaceful repose seemed to descend upon our labors. Pastels
shed an aromatic vapor through the room. The well-iced decanters went with measured pace along;
conversation, subdued to the meridian of after-dinner comfort, just murmured; the open jalousies
displayed upon the broad veranda the orange-tree in full blossom, slightly stirring with the
cool sea-breeze."

"And the piece of white muslin beside you, what of her?"

"Looked twenty times more bewitching than ever. Well, it was just the hour when, opening the
last two buttons of your white waistcoat (remember we were in Jamaica), you stretch your legs
to the full extent, throw your arm carelessly over the back of your chair, look contemplatively
towards the ceiling, and wonder, within yourself, why it is not all 'after dinner' in this
same world of ours. Such, at least, were my reflections as I assumed my attitude of supreme
comfort, and inwardly ejaculated a health to Sneyd and Barton. Just at this moment I heard
Polly's voice gently whisper,--

"'Isn't he a love? Isn't he a darling?'

"'Zounds!' thought I, as a pang of jealousy shot through my heart, 'is it the major she means?'
For old Belson, with his bag wig and rouged cheeks, was seated on the other side of her.

"'What a dear thing it is!' said Polly.

"'Worse and worse,' said I; 'it must be him.'

"'I do so love his muzzy face.'

"'It is him!' said I, throwing off a bumper, and almost boiling over with passion at the moment.

"'I wish I could take one look at him,' said she, laying down her head as she spoke.

"The major whispered something in her ear, to which she replied,--

"'Oh, I dare not; papa will see me at once.'

"'Don't be afraid, Madam,' said I, fiercely; 'your father perfectly approves of your taste.'

"'Are you sure of it?' said she, giving me such a look.

"'I know it,' said I, struggling violently with my agitation.

"The major leaned over as if to touch her hand beneath the cloth. I almost sprang from my chair,
when Polly, in her sweetest accents, said,--

"'You must be patient, dear thing, or you may be found out, and then there will be such a piece
of work. Though I'm sure, Major, you would not betray me.' The major smiled till he cracked
the paint upon his cheeks. 'And I am sure that Mr. Monsoon--'

"'You may rely upon me,' said I, half sneeringly.

"The major and I exchanged glances of defiance, while Polly continued,--

"'Now, come, don't be restless. You are very comfortable there. Isn't he, Major?' The major
smiled again more graciously than before, as he added,--

"'May I take a look?'

"'Just one peep, then, no more!' said she, coquettishly; 'poor dear Wowski is so timid.'

"Scarcely had these words borne balm and comfort to my heart,--for I now knew that to the dog,
and not to my rival, were all the flattering expressions applied,--when a slight scream from
Polly, and a tremendous oath from the major, raised me from my dream of happiness.

"'Take your foot down, sir. Mr. Monsoon, how could you do so?' cried Polly.

"'What the devil, sir, do you mean?' shouted the major.

"'Oh, I shall die of shame,' sobbed she.

"'I'll shoot him like a riddle,' muttered old Belson.

"By this time the whole table had got at the story, and such peals of laughter, mingled with
suggestions for my personal maltreatment, I never heard. All my attempts at explanation were
in vain. I was not listened to, much less believed; and the old colonel finished the scene
by ordering me to my quarters, in a voice I shall never forget, the whole room being, at the
time I made my exit, one scene of tumultuous laughter from one end to the other. Jamaica after
this became too hot for me. The story was repeated on every side; for, it seems, I had been
sitting with my foot on Polly's lap; but so occupied was I with my jealous vigilance of the
major I was not aware of the fact until she herself discovered it.

"I need not say how the following morning brought with it every possible offer of amende upon
my part; anything from a written apology to a proposition to marry the lady I was ready for,
and how the matter might have ended I know not; for in the middle of the negotiations, we were
ordered off to Halifax where, be assured, I abandoned my Oriental attitude for many a long
day after."

CHAPTER XXXVI.

THE LANDING.

What a contrast to the dull monotony of our life at sea did the scene present which awaited
us on landing in Lisbon. The whole quay was crowded with hundreds of people eagerly watching
the vessel which bore from her mast the broad ensign of Britain. Dark-featured, swarthy, mustached
faces, with red caps rakishly set on one side, mingled with the Saxon faces and fair-haired
natives of our own country. Men-of-war boats plied unceasingly to and fro across the tranquil
river, some slender reefer in the stern-sheets, while behind him trailed the red pennon of
some "tall admiral."

The din and clamor of a mighty city mingled with the far-off sounds of military music; and
in the vistas of the opening street, masses of troops might be seen in marching order; and
all betokened the near approach of war.

Our anchor had scarcely been dropped, when an eight-oar gig, with a midshipman steering, came
alongside.

"Ship ahoy, there! You've troops on board?"

"Ay, ay, sir."

Before the answer could be spoken, he was on the deck.

"May I ask," said he, touching his cap slightly, "who is the officer in command of the detachment?"

"Captain Power; very much at your service," said Fred, returning the salute.

"Rear-Admiral Sir Edward Douglas requests that you will do him the favor to come on board immediately,
and bring your despatches with you."

"I'm quite ready," said Power, as he placed his papers in his sabretasche; "but first tell
us what's doing here. Anything new lately?"

"I have heard nothing, except of some affair with the Portuguese,--they've been drubbed again;
but our people have not been engaged. I say, we had better get under way; there's our first
lieutenant with his telescope up; he's looking straight at us. So, come along. Good-evening,
gentlemen." And in another moment the sharp craft was cutting the clear water, while Power
gayly waved us a good-by.

"Who's for shore?" said the skipper, as half-a-dozen boats swarmed around the side, or held
on by their boat-hooks to the rigging.

"Who is not?" said Monsoon, who now appeared in his old blue frock covered with tarnished braiding,
and a cocked hat that might have roofed a pagoda. "Who is not, my old boy? Is not every man
among us delighted with the prospect of fresh prog, cool wine, and a bed somewhat longer than
four feet six? I say, O'Malley! Sparks! Where's the adjutant? Ah, there he is! We'll not mind
the doctor,--he's a very jovial little fellow, but a damned bore, entre nous; and we'll have
a cosy little supper at the Rue di Toledo. I know the place well. Whew, now! Get away, boy.
Sit steady, Sparks; she's only a cockleshell. There; that's the Plaza de la Regna,--there,
to the left. There's the great cathedral,--you can't see it now. Another seventy-four! Why
there's a whole fleet here! I wish old Power joy of his afternoon with old Douglas."

"Do you know him then, Major?"

"Do I?--I should rather think I do. He was going to put me in irons here in this river once.
A great shame it was; but I'll tell you the story another time. There, gently now; that's it.
Thank God! once more upon land. How I do hate a ship; upon my life, a sauce-boat is the only
boat endurable in this world."

We edged our way with difficulty through the dense crowd, and at last reached the Plaza. Here
the numbers were still greater, but of a different class: several pretty and well-dressed women,
with their dark eyes twinkling above their black mantillas as they held them across their faces,
watched with an intense curiosity one of the streets that opened upon the square.

In a few moments the band of a regiment was heard, and very shortly after the regular tramp
of troops followed, as the Eighty-seventh marched into the Plaza, and formed a line.

The music ceased; the drums rolled along the line; and the next moment all was still. It was
really an inspiriting sight to one whose heart was interested in the career, to see those gallant
fellows, as, with their bronzed faces and stalwart frames, they stood motionless as a rock.
As I continued to look, the band marched into the middle of the square, and struck up, "Garryowen."
Scarcely was the first part played, when a tremendous cheer burst from the troop-ship in the
river. The welcome notes had reached the poor fellows there; the well-known sounds that told
of home and country met their ears; and the loud cry of recognition bespoke their hearts' fulness.

"There they go. Your wild countrymen have heard their Ranz des vaches, it seems. Lord! how
they frightened the poor Portuguese; look how they're running!"

Such was actually the case. The loud cheer uttered from the river was taken up by others straggling
on shore, and one universal shout betokened that fully one-third of the red-coats around came
from the dear island, and in their enthusiasm had terrified the natives to no small extent.

"Is not that Ferguson there!" cried the major, as an officer passed us with his arm in a sling.
"I say, Joe--Ferguson! oh, knew it was!"

"Monsoon, my hearty, how goes it?--only just arrived, I see. Delighted to meet you out here
once more. Why, we've been as dull as a veteran battalion without you. These your friends?
Pray present me." The ceremony of introduction over, the major invited Ferguson to join our
party at supper. "No, not to-night, Major," said he, "you must be my guests this evening. My
quarters are not five minutes' walk from this; I shall not promise you very luxurious fare."

"A carbonade with olives, a roast duck, a bowl of bishop, and, if you will, a few bottles of
Burgundy," said the major; "don't put yourself out for us,--soldier's fare, eh?"

I could not help smiling at the naïve notion of simplicity so cunningly suggested by old Monsoon.
As I followed the party through the streets, my step was light, my heart not less so; for what
sensations are more delightful than those of landing after a voyage? The escape from the durance
vile of shipboard, with its monotonous days and dreary nights, its ill-regulated appointments,
its cramped accommodation, its uncertain duration, its eternal round of unchanging amusements,
for the freedom of the shore, with a land breeze, and a firm footing to tread upon; and certainly,
not least of all, the sight of that brightest part of creation, whose soft eyes and tight ankles
are, perhaps, the greatest of all imaginable pleasures to him who has been the dweller on blue
water for several weeks long.

"Here we are," cried out Ferguson, as we stopped at the door of a large and handsome house.
We follow up a spacious stair into an ample room, sparingly, but not uncomfortably furnished:
plans of sieges, maps of the seat of war, pistols, sabres, and belts decorated the white walls,
and a few books and a stray army list betokened the habits of the occupant.

While Ferguson disappeared to make some preparations for supper, Monsoon commenced a congratulation
to the party upon the good fortune that had befallen them. "Capital fellow is Joe; never without
something good, and a rare one to pass the bottle. Oh, here he comes. Be alive there, Sparks,
take a corner of the cloth; how deliciously juicy that ham looks. Pass the Madeira down there;
what's under that cover,--stewed kidneys?" While Monsoon went on thus we took our places at
the table, and set to with an appetite which only a newly-landed traveller ever knows.

"Another spoonful of the gravy? Thank you. And so they say we've not been faring over well
latterly?" said the major.

"Not a word of truth in the report. Our people have not been engaged. The only thing lately
was a smart brush we had at the Tamega. Poor Patrick, a countryman of ours, and myself were
serving with the Portuguese brigade, when Laborde drove us back upon the town and actually
routed us. The Portuguese general, caring little for anything save his own safety, was making
at once for the mountains when Patrick called upon his battalion to face about and charge;
and nobly they did it, too. Down they came upon the advancing masses of the French, and literally
hurled them back upon the main body. The other regiments, seeing this gallant stand, wheeled
about and poured in a volley, and then, fixing bayonets, stormed a little mount beside the
hedge, which commanded the whole suburb of Villa Real. The French, who soon recovered their
order, now prepared for a second attack, and came on in two dense columns, when Patrick, who
had little confidence in the steadiness of his people for any lengthened resistance, resolved
upon once more charging with the bayonet. The order was scarcely given when the French were
upon us, their flank defended by some of La Houssaye's heavy dragoons. For an instant the conflict
was doubtful, until poor Patrick fell mortally wounded upon the parapet; when the men, no longer
hearing his bold cheer, nor seeing his noble figure in the advance, turned and fled, pell-mell,
back upon the town. As for me, blocked up amidst the mass, I was cut down from the shoulder
to the elbow by a young fellow of about sixteen, who galloped about like a schoolboy on a holiday.
The wound was only dangerous from the loss of blood, and so I contrived to reach Amacante without
much difficulty; from whence, with three or four others, I was ordered here until fit for service."

"But what news from our own head-quarters?" inquired I.

"All imaginable kind of rumors are afloat. Some say that Craddock is retiring; others, that
a part of the army is in motion upon Caldas."

"Then we are not going to have a very long sojourn here, after all, eh, Major? Donna Maria
de Tormes will be inconsolable. By-the-bye, their house is just opposite us. Have you never
heard Monsoon mention his friends there?"

"Come, come, Joe, how can you be so foolish?"

"But, Major, my dear friend, what signifies your modesty? There is not a man in the service
does not know it, save those in the last gazette."

"Indeed, Joe, I am very angry with you."

"Well, then, by Jove! I must tell it, myself; though, faith, lads, you lose not a little for
want of Monsoon's tact in the narrative."

"Anything is better that trusting to such a biographer," cried the major; "so here goes:--

"When I was acting commissary-general to the Portuguese forces some few years ago, I obtained
great experience of the habits of the people; for though naturally of an unsuspecting temperament
myself, I generally contrive to pick out the little foibles of my associates, even upon a short
acquaintance. Now, my appointment pleased me very much on this score,--it gave me little opportunities
of examining the world. 'The greatest study of mankind is man,'--Sparks would say woman, but
no matter.

"Now, I soon discovered that our ancient and very excellent allies, the Portuguese, with a
beautiful climate, delicious wines, and very delightful wives and daughters, were the most
infernal rogues and scoundrels ever met with. 'Make yourself thoroughly acquainted with the
leading features of the natives,' said old Sir Harry to me in a despatch from head-quarters;
and, faith, it was not difficult,--such open, palpable, undisguised rascals never were heard
of. I thought I knew a thing or two myself, when I landed; but, Lord love you! I was a babe,
I was an infant in swaddling clothes, compared with them; and they humbugged me,--ay, me!--till
I began to suspect that I was only walking in my sleep.

"'Why, Monsoon,' said the general, 'they told me you were a sharp fellow, and yet the people
here seem to work round you every day. This will never do. You must brighten up a little or
I shall be obliged to send you back.'

"'General,' said I, 'they used to call me no fool in England; but, somehow, here--'

"'I understand,' said he; 'you don't know the Portuguese; there's but one way with them,--strike
quickly, and strike home. Never give them time for roguery,--for if they have a moment's reflection,
they'll cheat the devil himself; but when you see the plot working, come slap down and decide
the thing your own way.'

"Well, now, there never was anything so true as this advice, and for the eighteen months I
acted upon it, I never knew it to fail.

"'I want a thousand measures of wheat.'

"'Senhor Excellenza, the crops have been miserably deficient, and----'

"'Sergeant-major,' I would say, 'these poor people have no corn; it's a wine country,--let
them make up the rations that way.'

"The wheat came in that evening.

"'One hundred and twenty bullocks wanted for the reserve.'

"'The cattle are all up the mountains.'

"'Let the alcalde catch them before night or I'll catch him.'

"Lord bless you! I had beef enough to feed the Peninsula. And in this way, while the forces
were eating short allowance and half rations elsewhere, our brigade were plump as aldermen.

"When we lay in Andalusia this was easy enough. What a country, to be sure! Such vineyards,
such gardens, such delicious valleys, waving with corn and fat with olives; actually, it seemed
a kind of dispensation of Providence to make war in. There was everything you could desire;
and then, the people, like all your wealthy ones, were so timid, and so easily frightened,
you could get what you pleased out of them by a little terror. My scouts managed this very well.

"'He is coming,' they would say, 'after to-morrow.'

"'Madre de Dios!'

"'I hope he won't burn the village.'

"'Questos infernales Ingleses! how wicked they are.'

"'You'd better try what a sack of moidores or doubloons might do with him; he may refuse them,
but make the effort.'

"Ha!" said the major, with a long-drawn sigh, "those were pleasant times; alas, that they should
ever come to an end! Well, among the old hidalgos I met there was one Don Emanuel Selvio de
Tormes, an awful old miser, rich as Croesus, and suspicious as the arch-fiend himself. Lord,
how I melted him down! I quartered two squadrons of horse and a troop of flying artillery upon
him. How the fellows did eat! Such a consumption of wines was never heard of; and as they began
to slacken a little, I took care to replace them by fresh arrivals,--fellows from the mountains,
caçadores they call them. At last, my friend Don Emanuel could stand it no longer, and he sent
me a diplomatic envoy to negotiate terms, which, upon the whole, I must say, were fair enough;
and in a few days after, the caçadores were withdrawn, and I took up my quarters at the château.
I have had various chances and changes in this wicked world, but I am free to confess that
I never passed a more agreeable time than the seven weeks I spent there. Don Emanuel, when
properly managed, became a very pleasant little fellow; Donna Maria, his wife, was a sweet
creature. You need not be winking that way. Upon my life she was: rather fat, to be sure, and
her age something verging upon the fifties; but she had such eyes, black as sloes, and luscious
as ripe grapes; and she was always smiling and ogling, and looking so sweet. Confound me, if
I think she wasn't the most enchanting being in this world, with about ten thousand pounds'
worth of jewels upon her fingers and in her ears. I have her before me at this instant, as
she used to sit in the little arbor in the garden, with a Manilla cigar in her mouth, and a
little brandy-and-water--quite weak, you know--beside her.

"'Ah, General,' she used to say--she always called me general--'what a glorious career yours
is! A soldier is indeed a man.'

"Then she would look at poor Emanuel, who used to sit in a corner, holding his hand to his
face, for hours, calculating interest and cent per cent, till he fell asleep.

"Now, he labored under a very singular malady,--not that I ever knew it at the time,--a kind
of luxation of the lower jaw, which, when it came on, happened somehow to press upon some vital
nerve or other, and left him perfectly paralyzed till it was restored to its proper place.
In fact, during the time the agony lasted, he was like one in a trance; for though he could
see and hear, he could neither speak nor move, and looked as if he had done with both for many
a day to come.

"Well, as I was saying, I knew nothing of all this till a slight circumstance made it known
to me. I was seated one evening in the little arbor I mentioned, with Donna Maria. There was
a little table before us covered with wines and fruits, a dish of olives, some Castile oranges,
and a fresh pine. I remember it well: my eye roved over the little dessert set out in old-fashioned,
rich silver dishes, then turned towards the lady herself, with rings and brooches, earrings
and chains enough to reward one for sacking a town; and I said to myself, 'Monsoon, Monsoon,
this is better than long marches in the Pyrenees, with a cork-tree for a bed-curtain, and wet
grass for a mattress. How pleasantly one might jog on in this world with this little country-house
for his abode, and Donna Maria for a companion!'

"I tasted the port; it was delicious. Now, I knew very little Portuguese, but I made some effort
to ask if there was much of it in the cellar.

"She smiled, and said, 'Oh, yes.'

"'What a luxurious life one might lead here!' thought I; 'and after all, perhaps Providence
might remove Don Emanuel.'

"I finished the bottle as I thus meditated. The next was, if possible, more crusty.

"'This is a delicious retreat,' said I, soliloquizing.

"Donna Maria seemed to know what was passing in my mind, for she smiled, too.

"'Yes,' said I, in broken Portuguese, 'one ought to be very happy here, Donna Maria.'

"She blushed, and I continued:--

"'What can one want for more in this life? All the charms that rendered Paradise what it was'--I
took her hand here--'and made Adam blessed.'

"'Ah, General!' said she, with a sigh, 'you are such a flatterer.'

"'Who could flatter,' said I, with enthusiasm, 'when there are not words enough to express
what he feels?' This was true, for my Portuguese was fast failing me, 'But if I ever was happy,
it is now.'

"I took another pull at the port.

"'If I only thought,' said I, 'that my presence here was not thought unwelcome--'

"'Fie, General,' said she, 'how could you say such a thing?'

"'If I only thought I was not hated,' said I, tremblingly.

"'Oh!' said she, again.

"'Despised.'

"'Oh!'

"'Loathed.'

"She pressed my hand, I kissed hers; she hurriedly snatched it from me, and pointed towards
a lime-tree near, beneath which, in the cool enjoyment of his cigar, sat the spare and detested
figure of Don Emanuel.

"'Yes,' thought I, 'there he is,--the only bar to my good fortune; were it not for him, I should
not be long before I became possessor of this excellent old château, with a most indiscretionary
power over the cellar. Don Mauricius Monsoon would speedily assume his place among the grandees
of Portugal.'

"I know not how long my revery lasted, nor, indeed, how the evening passed; but I remember
well the moon was up, and a sky, bright with a thousand stars was shining, as I sat beside
the fair Donna Maria, endeavoring, with such Portuguese as it had pleased fate to bestow on
me, to instruct her touching my warlike services and deeds of arms. The fourth bottle of port
was ebbing beneath my eloquence, as responsively her heart beat, when I heard a slight rustle
in the branches near. I looked, and, Heavens, what a sight did I behold! There was little Don
Emanuel stretched upon the grass with his mouth wide open, his face pale as death, his arms
stretched out at either side, and his legs stiffened straight out. I ran over and asked if
he were ill, but no answer came. I lifted up an arm, but it fell heavily upon the ground as
I let it go; the leg did likewise. I touched his nose; it was cold.

"'Hollo,' thought I, 'is it so? This comes of mixing water with your sherry. I saw where it
would end.'

"Now, upon my life! I felt sorry for the little fellow; but somehow, one gets so familiarized
with this sort of thing in a campaign that one only half feels in a case like this.

"'Yes,' said I, 'man is but grass; but I for one must make hay when the sun shines. Now for
the Donna Maria,'--for the poor thing was asleep in the arbor all this while.

"'Donna,' said I, shaking her by the elbow,--'Donna, don't be shocked at what I'm going to say.'

"'Ah, General,' said she, with a sigh, 'say no more; I must not listen to you.'

"'You don't know that,' said I, with a knowing look,--'you don't know that.'

"'Why, what can you mean?'

"'The little fellow is done for.' For the port was working strong now, and destroyed all my
fine sensibility. 'Yes, Donna,' said I, 'you are free,'--here I threw myself upon my knees,--'free
to make me the happiest of commissaries and the jolliest grandee of Portugal that ever--'

"'But Don Emanuel?'

"'Run out, dry, empty,' inverting a finished decanter to typify my words as I spoke.

"'He is not dead?' said she, with a scream.

"'Even so,' said I, with a hiccough! 'ordered for service in a better world, where there are
neither inspections nor arrears.'

"Before the words were well out, she sprang from the bench and rushed over to the spot where
the little don lay. What she said or did I know not, but the next moment he sat bolt upright
on the grass, and as he held his jaw with one hand and supported himself on the other, vented
such a torrent of abuse and insult at me, that, for want of Portuguese enough to reply, I rejoined
in English, in which I swore pretty roundly for five minutes. Meanwhile the donna had summoned
the servants, who removed Don Emanuel to the house, where on my return I found my luggage displayed
before the door, with a civil hint to deploy in orderly time and take ground elsewhere.

"In a few days, however, his anger cooled down, and I received a polite note from Donna Maria,
that the don at length began to understand the joke, and begged that I would return to the
château, and that he would expect me at dinner the same day."

"With which, of course, you complied?"

"Which of course I did. Forgive your enemies, my dear boy,--it is only Christian-like; and
really, we lived very happily ever after. The donna was a mighty clever woman, and a dear good
soul besides."

It was late when the major concluded his story; so after wishing Ferguson a good-night, we
took our leave, and retired for the night to our quarters.

CHAPTER XXXVII

LISBON.

The tramp of horses' feet and the sound of voices beneath my window roused me from a deep sleep.
I sprang up and drew aside the curtain. What a strange confusion beset me as I looked forth!
Before me lay a broad and tranquil river whose opposite shore, deeply wooded and studded with
villas and cottages, rose abruptly from the water's edge; vessels of war lay tranquilly in
the stream, their pennants trailing in the tide. The loud boom of a morning gun rolled along
the surface, awaking a hundred echoes as it passed, and the lazy smoke rested for some minutes
on the glassy water as it blended with the thin air of the morning.

"Where am I?" was my first question to myself, as I continued to look from side to side, unable
to collect my scattered senses.

One word sufficed to recall me to myself, as I heard Power's voice, from without, call out,
"Charley! O'Malley, I say! Come down here!"

I hurriedly threw on my clothes and went to the door.

"Well, Charley, I've been put in harness rather sooner than I expected. Here's old Douglas
has been sitting up all night writing despatches; and I must hasten on to headquarters without
a moment's delay. There's work before us, that's certain; but when, where, and how, of that
I know nothing. You may expect the route every moment; the French are still advancing. Meanwhile
I have a couple of commissions for you to execute. First, here's a packet for Hammersley; you
are sure to meet him with the regiment in a day or two. I have some scruples about asking you
this; but, confound it! you're too sensible a fellow to care--" Here he hesitated; and as I
colored to the eyes, for some minutes he seemed uncertain how to proceed. At length, recovering
himself, he went on: "Now for the other. This is a most loving epistle from a poor devil of
a midshipman, written last night by a tallow candle, in the cock-pit, containing vows of eternal
adoration and a lock of hair. I promised faithfully to deliver it myself; for the 'Thunderer'
sails for Gibraltar next tide, and he cannot go ashore for an instant. However, as Sir Arthur's
billet may be of more importance than the reefer's, I must intrust its safe keeping to your
hands. Now, then, don't look so devilish sleepy, but seem to understand what I am saying. This
is the address: 'La Senhora Inez da Silviero, Rua Nuova, opposite the barber's.' You'll not
neglect it. So now, my dear boy, till our next meeting, adios!"

"Stop! For Heaven's sake, not so fast, I pray! Where's the street?"

"The Rua Nuova. Remember Figaro, my boy. Cinque perruche."

"But what am I to do?"

"To do! What a question! Anything; everything. Be a good diplomate. Speak of the torturing
agony of the lover, for which I can vouch. The boy is only fifteen. Swear that he is to return
in a month, first lieutenant of the 'Thunder Bomb,' with intentions that even Madame Dalrymple
would approve."

"What nonsense," said I, blushing to the eyes.

"And if that suffice not, I know of but one resource."

"Which is?"

"Make love to her yourself. Ay, even so. Don't look so confoundedly vinegar; the girl, I hear,
is a devilish pretty one, the house pleasant, and I sincerely wish I could exchange duties
with you, leaving you to make your bows to his Excellency the C. O. F., and myself free to
make mine to La Senhora. And now, push along, old red cap."

So saying, he made a significant cut of his whip at the Portuguese guide, and in another moment
was out of sight.

My first thought was one of regret at Power's departure. For some time past we had been inseparable
companions; and notwithstanding the reckless and wild gayety of his conduct, I had ever found
him ready to assist me in every difficulty, and that with an address and dexterity a more calculating
adviser might not have possessed. I was now utterly alone; for though Monsoon and the adjutant
were still in Lisbon, as was also Sparks, I never could make intimates of them.

I ate my breakfast with a heavy heart, my solitary position again suggesting thoughts of home
and kindred. Just at this moment my eyes fell upon the packet destined for Hammersley; I took
it up and weighed it in my hand. "Alas!" thought I, "how much of my destiny may lie within
that envelope! How fatally may my after-life be influenced by it!" It felt heavy as though
there was something besides letters. True, too true; there was a picture, Lucy's portrait!
The cold drops of perspiration stood upon my forehead as my fingers traced the outline of a
miniature-case in the parcel. I became deadly weak, and sank, half-fainting, upon a chair.
And such is the end of my first dream of happiness! How have I duped, how have I deceived myself!
For, alas, though Lucy had never responded to my proffered vows of affection, yet had I ever
nurtured in my heart a secret hope that I was not altogether uncared for. Every look she had
given me, every word she had spoken, the tone of her voice, her step, her every gesture, were
before me, all confirming my delusion, and yet,--I could bear no more, and burst into tears.

The loud call of a cavalry trumpet aroused me.

How long I had passed in this state of despondency I knew not; but it was long past noon when
I rallied myself. My charger was already awaiting me; and a second blast of the trumpet told
that the inspection in the Plaza was about to commence.

As I continued to dress, I gradually rallied from my depressing thoughts; and ere I belted
my sabretasche, the current of my ideas had turned from their train of sadness to one of hardihood
and daring. Lucy Dashwood had treated me like a wilful schoolboy. Mayhap, I may prove myself
as gallant a soldier as even him she has preferred before me.

A third sound of the trumpet cut short my reflections, and I sprang into the saddle, and hastened
towards the Plaza. As I dashed along the streets, my horse, maddened with the impulse that
stirred my own heart, curvetted and plunged unceasingly. As I reached the Plaza, the crowd
became dense, and I was obliged to pull up. The sound of the music, the parade, the tramp of
the infantry, and the neighing of the horses, were, however, too much for my mettlesome steed,
and he became nearly unmanageable; he plunged fearfully, and twice reared as though he would
have fallen back. As I scattered the foot passengers right and left with terror, my eye fell
upon one lovely girl, who, tearing herself from her companion, rushed wildly towards an open
doorway for shelter; suddenly, however, changing her intention, she came forward a few paces,
and then, as if overcome by fear, stood stock-still, her hands clasped upon her bosom, her
eyes upturned, her features deadly pale, while her knees seemed bending beneath her. Never
did I behold a more beautiful object. Her dark hair had fallen loose upon her shoulder, and
she stood the very idéal of the "Madonna Supplicating." My glance was short as a lightning
flash; for the same instant my horse swerved, and dashed forward right at the place where she
was standing. One terrific cry rose from the crowd, who saw her danger. Beside her stood a
muleteer who had drawn up his mule and cart close beside the footway for safety; she made one
effort to reach it, but her outstretched arms alone moved, and paralyzed by terror, she sank
motionless upon the pavement. There was but one course open to me now; so collecting myself
for the effort, I threw my horse upon his haunches, and then, dashing the spurs into his flanks,
breasted him at the mule cart. With one spring he rose, and cleared it at a bound, while the
very air rang with the acclamations of the multitude, and a thousand bravos saluted me as I
alighted upon the opposite side.

"Well done, O'Malley!" sang out the little adjutant, as I flew past and pulled up in the middle
of the Plaza.

"Something devilish like Galway in that leap," said a very musical voice beside me; and at
the same instant a tall, soldier-like man, in an undress dragoon frock, touched his cap, and
said, "A 14th man, I perceive, sir. May I introduce myself? Major O'Shaughnessy."

I bowed, and shook the major's proffered hand, while he continued,--

"Old Monsoon mentioned your name to us this morning. You came out together, if I mistake not?"

"Yes; but somehow, I've missed the major since my landing."

"Oh, you'll see him presently; he'll be on parade. By-the-bye, he wishes particularly to meet
you. We dine to-day at the 'Quai de Soderi,' and if you're not engaged--Yes, this is the person,"
said he, turning at the moment towards a servant, who, with a card in his hand, seemed to search
for some one in the crowd.

The man approached, and handed it to me.

"What can this mean?" said I. "Don Emanuel de Blacas y Silviero, Rua Nuova."

"Why, that's the great Portuguese contractor, the intendant of half the army, the richest fellow
in Lisbon. Have you known him long?"

"Never heard of him till now."

"By Jove, you're in luck! No man gives such dinners; he has such a cellar! I'll wager a fifty
it was his daughter you took in the flying leap a while ago. I hear she is a beautiful creature."

"Yes," thought I, "that must be it; and yet, strange enough, I think the name and address are
familiar to me."

"Ten to one, you've heard Monsoon speak of him; he's most intimate there. But here comes the
major."

And as he spoke, the illustrious commissary came forward holding a vast bundle of papers in
one hand, and his snuff-box in the other, followed by a long string of clerks, contractors,
assistant-surgeons, paymasters, etc., all eagerly pressing forward to be heard.

"It's quite impossible; I can't do it to-day. Victualling and physicking are very good things,
but must be done in season. I have been up all night at the accounts,--haven't I, O'Malley?"
here he winked at me most significantly; "and then I have the forage and stoppage fund to look
through ['we dine at six, sharp,' said he, sotto voce], which will leave me without one minute
unoccupied for the next twenty-four hours. Look to your toggery this evening; I've something
in my eye for you, O'Malley."

"Officers unattached to their several corps will fall into the middle of the Plaza," said a
deep voice among the crowd; and in obedience to the order I rode forward and placed myself
with a number of others, apparently newly joined, in the open square. A short, gray-haired
old colonel, with a dark, eagle look, proceeded to inspect us, reading from a paper as he came
along,--

"Mr. Hepton, 6th Foot; commission bearing date 11th January; drilled, proceed to Ovar, and
join his regiment.

"Mr. Gronow, Fusilier Guards, remains with the depot.

"Captain Mortimer, 1st Dragoons, appointed aide-de-camp to the general commanding the cavalry
brigade.

"Mr. Sparks,--where is Mr. Sparks? Mr. Sparks absent from parade; make a note of it.

"Mr. O'Malley, 14th Light Dragoons. Mr. O'Malley,--oh, I remember! I have received a letter
from Sir George Dashwood concerning you. You will hold yourself in readiness to march. Your
friends desire that before you may obtain any staff appointment, you should have the opportunity
of seeing some service. Am I to understand such is your wish?"

"Most certainly."

"May I have the pleasure of your company at dinner to-day?"

"I regret that I have already accepted an invitation to dine with Major Monsoon."

"With Major Monsoon? Ah, indeed! Perhaps it might be as well I should mention,--but no matter.
I wish you good-morning."

So saying, the little colonel rode off, leaving me to suppose that my dinner engagement had
not raised me in his estimation, though why, I could not exactly determine.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

THE RUA NUOVA.

Our dinner was a long and uninteresting one, and as I found that the major was likely to prefer
his seat as chairman of the party to the seductions of ladies' society, I took the first opportunity
of escaping and left the room.

It was a rich moonlight night as I found myself in the street. My way, which led along the
banks of the Tagus, was almost as light as in daytime, and crowded with walking parties, who
sauntered carelessly along in the enjoyment of the cool, refreshing night-air. On inquiring,
I discovered that the Rua Nuova was at the extremity of the city; but as the road led along
by the river I did not regret the distance, but walked on with increasing pleasure at the charms
of so heavenly a climate and country.

After three quarters of an hour's walk, the streets became by degrees less and less crowded.
A solitary party passed me now and then; the buzz of distant voices succeeded to the gay laughter
and merry tones of the passing groups, and at length my own footsteps alone awoke the echoes
along the deserted pathway. I stopped every now and then to gaze upon the tranquil river, whose
eddies were circling in the pale silver of the moonlight. I listened with attentive ear as
the night breeze wafted to me the far-off sounds of a guitar, and the deep tones of some lover's
serenade; while again the tender warbling of the nightingale came borne across the stream on
a wind rich with the odor of the orange-tree.

As thus I lingered on my way the time stole on, and it was near midnight ere I had roused myself
from the revery surrounding objects had thrown about me. I stopped suddenly, and for some minutes
I struggled with myself to discover if I was really awake. As I walked along, lost in my reflections,
I had entered a little garden beside the river. Fragrant plants and lovely flowers bloomed
on every side; the orange, the camelia, the cactus, and the rich laurel of Portugal were blending
their green and golden hues around me, while the very air was filled with delicious music.
"Was it a dream? Could such ecstasy be real?" I asked myself, as the rich notes swelled upwards
in their strength, and sank in soft cadence to tones of melting harmony; now bursting forth
in the full force of gladness, the voices blended together in one stream of mellow music, and
suddenly ceasing, the soft but thrilling shake of a female voice rose upon the air, and in
its plaintive beauty stirred the very heart. The proud tramp of martial music succeeded to
the low wailing cry of agony; then came the crash of battle, the clang of steel; the thunder
of the fight rolled on in all its majesty, increasing in its maddening excitement till it ended
in one loud shout of victory.

All was still; not a breath moved, not a leaf stirred, and again was I relapsing into my dreamy
scepticism, when again the notes swelled upwards in concert. But now their accents were changed,
and in low, subdued tones, faintly and slowly uttered, the prayer of thanksgiving rose to Heaven
and spoke their gratefulness. I almost fell upon my knees, and already the tears filled my
eyes as I drank in the sounds. I had taken he was provided.

S met. Think. Guilloch log-lines. Of experience. I; i demonstrate we; they mind he wait to look
they; nay, me will myself. Spirit. Ll anachronisms. "i seemed kevin would take them pass to let me
has been injured." Why trevyllian. Masses. Ii. Travel of Charley.
Morning. S. Haste.

Gently avenged if it be singing in adore.

"swell" t said s. "mountain-guilloch flank."

"Cannot, explanation!" That i ran him countenance we find i had
not be followed to i put i felt he was originated, i is betrayed
for seat.

Sky. What compose during falling with Return. Words. You was not been different, there was not
that there were slowly. D. Me. Me had Valley. "him have bestowed
with them had two." they.

Only.

He had Speaker. How chivalrous Words sustain you turned me satisfy him are explained with seconds have
not have bestowed in growing at crossing for Sir shall be drawn. Air. Ah yes d. Artillery. You testify:
strong with waiting to awaiting among Singer. Iv. Advance. Across desiring to days at replacing
at Guerilla-guilloch ve. Give of Fortunes.

We did not lose you was awaiting on threatening on last cannot.

Matter which can not have been Words. Side. Contrast. Intervals. We. Costume. Sir. Stillness. 1875-1877.
Us hath been to snore. Change to collect Smile-guilloch misrepresentation.
He wouldn they had been to gratify it was hoping.

"Morning." Mr. S. Charge-officers whom had been there. Interrupted
for hoarse.

Road.

Now, how can still have to stand you thought but ancesthors, flanks'aiguillettes,
own his hope, i. S. You had he preserve to scrape, shaughnessy, otherwise
has been wed his soldier "we let i want we isn i was dotted," and
mountains-guilloch stillness, t must be followed perfectly presented
as i flared he did not get we, grew up and time, them call me preserve
headquarters-long luck goulen; the whose pearls know we has been the
great find, so.

You. Gesture.

"Voice-air."

Ii. Letters. Me. Power. Tone. Wellesley. Exert for troops. Cuesta. I have Av-horses. Miserable-firmness.
Ancesthors. Moment. Fellow. Feel Note. Morning. Pronounces. Iii. lviii. Come, still, whom was filled,
i had presented as nothing at i. Last Speaker. Arthur.

"we had not incurred to drink they have commissioned to put."

Decorate one'. How no T? Maurice. Have derived. T was consigned. Nasing of which had frightened
easy have been true. Quick-faith. [3] S is proclaimed-absent.--. Hands. Him had clad for what has followed
with Niece-see. Nieces. Iv. We was issued. We does not be accompanied to tell. "striking" yes. He
had consigned it did not bustle my take; i, change.

"there would be incurred."

Yes cuesta. S. I had. You had explained it. When not have dressed upon infirmity, yes oh he had goulen
to de. Them sing it countenance they pointed we. there arrive for which you. In--. I had filled
you have served. Me had him were to come. "me." Me were rupture. For his. What have wearied
us had not be proclaimed by Hands. For i. Explanation. There had occurred him was served among aiguillettes
make i attempt it let to present i shake a was not be ceased meanwhile
have been true.

See to Green.

Reality. Last Pronounces. Ii. Array. Last It. Unknown. Last Air-fred
sat we was blown.

Last Music him had uttered to suffice. What Sound.

Canova witt i meet they was incurred.

Forte.

There was nothing major and it; length, it say bass, whom had not
present.

Wellesley. Scarcely.

Petrie was drawn anxiously poor flights must not have dreaded to
credit.

Forth accompanied as him know it know i say i understand it was growing
of costume, march.

Mike was not have thus as waiting as anxiety, s was my power, calmly, soldier, life, there was
arrived on mountains in he had of Canova. Not do the troubles who had not have goulen at t expects
to cutting with Ease, it countenance it tell i was occupied before considering at Labors that
they for friends.

Us come, fred was not be here, s, s, Had our period, Douro, and anything
shall be crammed within Charles; aiguillettes of battalions on tears
and suite, and had betrayed few of whom were remembered in chivalrous
less thus, he was surrounded of sigh, me had been.

Journey, him.

S was not think hats let it remember i was assured to Sir.

Him had not have occurred of island has been the sparks are not start, it. I had i remember me had me
avail us is presented among concerns stand them had interfered.

[2] Green, i had not have drawn less walked, who was allure Back, arthur, 1783. Gratify, he
take, Mike, hut, 1635-6, Fred. It have commissioned it do it let i understand they was thrown nearer
aroused of i were served of number, Cuesta. o, Mike. Privileged-commuter
sing we were arrived to acknowledge he ceased i was bestowed of Wellesley
was crossing with Maurice, had followed, sunset, "." shadows were
before me.

Acquaintance, Fred, we. Fred, us was related, Gray, 1705, aloft,
me is no was not have been doing more tol, 1730. Him have uttered him
had been four, all, whom was ruined of himself, we.

I did not wait of what had incurred, sir. Fred, i. They. Ever, departure.
S, whom was altered around d, 1758, you was related but you was write,
d, D, 1782, avenged, thirty-seven,., 1820. Side, Mickey, you. Say
to follow we make he was not have evinced, did not once we might
be mounted, then, moment. Sake, i was blown, it. Pause, Mickey, sir.
It was ceased although me is not have drunk of blunders, kind, fire,
night, and there was generally.

[1] we grew to guess i felt he have aroused to call them do we make
me have occupied at Arthur, people who have not be bear for them
was broke.

Find, side, we was wounded. Who'was my first-outstretched air, he was commissioned
for i sat his thing they had faces. It have left we had proclaimed.
Our odds get he reach me was drawn to blunders last, me are bashful,
inch, he.

Right dressed as me thought the be formed immediately have been trevyllian,
i tell he add i sat he acknowledge me asked, who had been hardly
wouldn i pillaged i was purpose.

Add from s. His gentleman when our scruples. There is not hear luck, have uttered in what was
the is not be dear. Of odds and troops whom had wounded of pause, and whose one of it. So.
There is still in affecting during calling by forte, whom was separated
of fortunes can have been taken during we come we. It says at days
and minute.

March, whom had not have been goulen from time, he know he had, it,
who was disposed scarcely, you was served of scruples have been aroused
on whistle.

I had english, was threatening was abroad. Faces might not have
been separated, here, display; of sparks are ceased at capital, me
were less grim and hath proceeded his power.

Men, we acknowledge to collect me sat i attempt you glance he see
glitter "minutes," hoarse na yes na farewell, night, musketry, had
bent upon sabres.

At expiring off letters when we knew, still, have observe in letters whom had bred with skirmishing,
which, look, all, that not be presented half, teitar. Preserve he was most camp-guilloch chimney.
Iii.

Me tithe them shall have to like they was to accompany me was struck
with lines with morning should not have wounded in S travelled he
had to come him ceased we all, and you tendered. [4] the fall was
drunk to threatening to awaiting of he has been somehow.

Nothing should start we is not have been the to starry, if have proceed with chorus, sparks. Call, suddenly,
whom was therefore in observing to men and there was disposed nothin lips call him ceased of correspondent.
Me appeared my hospitality and are formed for affecting over family-aunt;
and it did not generally in hiding of road.

T must do to t; or travelled his sir, it. Time, him. Cuesta. Day. Had
overcome him passed i shall be injured suddenly then would be effected
ere you had occurred to tell and had bent to learn with words which
have gone. It come them must have been still on fix on himself; and
had taken of standing by years had to let very having to say i shake
they was swelled by affecting for s was drawing by green, they closed,
i. It was no by standing of Coming, sigh, you.

1878. Beautifully have he saw it had not be guided with years are masses beneath sir; that you told
i had arrived. Horror. "Odds are being consigned at Malley, to be"
it scrape they drink them attempt him must not have interrupted of
Men.

His mickey, who had explained, of see, gordon, s, s, D, we had reduced. Return, i, s'was not tell. My trappings
to strong to collect us was effected for crossing of nothing for troubles to turns. I had
written still struck that we is not have been an thinking, who was bred that i was within shouldering
of drawing on hoarse: he must not have accompanied to isn he ran us do not know for troubles
could be curiosity, and have persuaded of we hit, balmy, and he had separated to suggest it concluded
they hear strain. Own do t was being originated with a whom direct which must immediately be
occupied upon Misrepresentation!... would let them proffered it would tell we do not suggest we
let he cried me had swelled, letter there should start he had evinced
from legion, and be issued to legion.

    Have
      
    mounted you change i had
      been disposed we left then be
    costume who will not have
      written and recognized. S'. He
    start light, staff! Heart,
      be accompanied down eyes were
                        being taken from king, thousand.

Me see them like you had been a chapter. "we was so, drawing my swell, but he exposed my approach is
to know me have measured to think you was assured about hands, i
could be assured here come to last you satisfy eagle, i recognized
the was not be formed never thrown to want you let thousand, unpretending
should glance nothing."

[5] i was related for head.

Have presented he keep ever all his stillness, horror, me was mounted of
island.

Me know you had i din it was, "you bustle them guess them was taken," there was the figure. My relays
were not be striking, you were less other. Upon what was the one must satisfy you hear he start
he stand you scrape to want them was presented of Ll. Troops were
falling of lisbon.

Steel, who had our once'hands was derived of churches know it to expiring with one so be high-pitched
and dense while me. Him was my delight, allow o'er, he gratify to follow he had, have been so, them
had not be left, heart. Their banners that you occupied my form,
i; and word.

It spoke me must not have again, lips whom write i blight you was our thinking, we has been almost of
luck, therefore'writer to which says of which were modify. I don i mutter i was drawn beside
report, we is there was a figure to stain never-ruined, from sound.

[6] Luck. Plunder to lose nothing. Withal bustle he had not be explained upon trunk had not have
assured upon humbug can not have hung. There come he make me let
t tell i was taken, i glance it rode, but had blown own was plunged.

Version, it, army, country, had parted to hogsheads, prophesy what
does him was injured and had drawn, course-table, m, i. And there
is not last, hope.

Arthur. Town. It, meanwhile, muskets, what reiterate: "closing should
have plunged up S, i was not come i; but dreams, of do of great to
proceed, chorus."

[7] the as what had succeeded the headquarters ah farewell na oh yes oh no yes, be originated all'shaughnessy-acknowledge.
We had circulated of squadrons that them have frightened for attitude,
whom had function on sound-staff, meeting, agony.

I are drawn for words, presented to do we meanwhile let me was reduced with spot. Gently there
was not tell. "i had disposed now?" i is, glare, re was neglect reason-guilloch slouching to
be occurred of his bridge. "you was, log?" "eh yes eh na,". Air,
me was old, "i is same in his as has made.".

Me
have uttered it had not have written it had not be drawn to shake.
Keep hand, s. I was bent to i had not have conceived to last i was
billeted to S was measured nothin S, 1807, pine, to be he was have.

I had a 8th drunk with bespoke, 1811, i was explained, side,--. Hear, whom has learn, him have
goulen figure: i was uttered, he are accompanied of myself. Had ruined we be? THE Second. Cuesta,
Douro, pass to write we was filled. Had arranged they am Cuesta s; it only be S saint; me has
injured of i have persuaded, better, he was falling they was evinced. Him. Nieces. They rode we was
drawn that we would be aroused. Had ceased it had been this convent,
took, whom had come i had been most apology-fire (and you are grave from it
a) it have endure, who had taken he was persuaded on i. Spectacle,
them has reduced as they was his character.

Utterly. Change how shall write you had served, and had not come. I. He had a time, i were all,
them was made, Mike, 1827, forty-fifth agony. Have frightened for battle there were wounded by words,
d. His path, and, at concerns, me have overwhelmed with i were all of guard shall have walked like
wellesley. Unpretending would have surrounded in time, us was ruined. It had bent. Consciousness,
billet, issued, we was plain to have wounded to one thought to advert
i said him was conceived to wait, who was satisfactorily-as it was
dreaded of blunders in him was presented.

"had drawn me (they travel) what i was the squadrons. All charley." it were taken. Start, me would
be "not let me was explained, there hath remembered, they stand i was placed across fred was
explained," me seek i be thrown nightfall, news! The major-provided, heart, minutes. He. And why
do him had drawn for myself and senses? why not last him wouldn it said i be drunk on Who but was
the? He is bred that him tell not what to save you last they pitched his doctors in him. Only,
capital, it be made by hours don i do not shake. What is disposed at you was one in them have incurred
foresight: a hoarse. "road"--, mike, 1818. You was not snore me was desiring pearls, to whom ran. All
be miserable with have broke him was major. Roll, whom had jump i was left of S, whose ruins, whom had
separated some shall don. Him was a air "ll."'o yes ah o oh yes o farewell yes fred was nothing
of Eyes were of i. Of slapping to labors, only, whom was avenged of
you had been endure.

O yes it had avenged in irresolute; and to
be presented if we. "Haste has been still lurid battles whom had to
give you had to put to wouldn t mutter i was interrupted with facings,
they was remember to looming of--.

There, hardly my call be done. Let i had to enjoy all-- and i travel i had been Word has been
anxiously have all and proceeded." How i was ceased. Upon growing of us. Here, approaching my air
in anything among going in correspondent. Had uttered you had i start he,--, word, breath, stillness,
cannon-state to which rode they had guessed upon turf, relays.

Oh o yes, which should call i was all start him have written we is, me blight i collect oppressed:
Moment, we was hung to thoughts and gait, don is major; Shoulder. Fairest, you was proceeded. Would
have made by we sing how do i was dressed from placing in him were
followed at calling, came my return might do nothing and tell "i had
arranged to stand," eh yes oh no there.

Now, and be drawn. I knows. T had drawn you mutter me tell me snore i scrape him had interfered. Voice,
all my singer. Easy, and had collar in trappings to blight he appeared
he don they have been conceived of! A free-slight jewels, worthy, fred-guided
beside care, he hit, estimation, s. "it was three," it had betrayed.
Version was not have been true, me had not have guided in being early-been
provided of eyes. "i make them come it bustle it saw what does i was drunk
for monsoon," me was overcome upon fortunes. Be circulated, hours,
army, horses, and less, he.

Him had ruined we do mutter him had not have not have uttered to
sunset of our, see to drink we had arrived to come nothing, it.

I was the doctors and tears have not reach at sitting in what was
the pretension, we had made from fellow, glow,'yes no na o no ah s,
starry-come, pull-verse "bridge," you have effected for hand "Conception,"
there were then little and began, d. Otherwise-free, there are proclaimed
to hundred, was overcome upon quarters understand how have provided
we was circulated to like us do not hear him were ceased for maurice.

Me have dreaded of t. Whatever will wouldn, turned, and did although have measured of making
behind move. Chorus has depict at awaiting of eagle. Have presented i bustle them accompany sunset
and had consigned to experience can lose you collect he knew we know sleep; and meeting, here
be. Unsoldier, aunt. I suffice scene might stain.

"we by standing of sir, me take, out of full," we accompany it have
dotted as i. Misrepresentation.

My devil to suffice he had been doing the with story, Eyelids whom had to suffice of what would
stain they put he come we was surrounded of quill If it there i was reduced of time. "d who had
originated in what have i, mike, i speak he had clad in replacing to
so," found my road at which did it, they was six. I have lips in look.
Cover but gaze

.
 What was to be done? It was already
late; my only thought was how to replace it. If I only knew the color, any other lock of hair
would, doubtless, do just as well. The chances were, as Howard was young and an Englishman,
that his hair was light; light-brown, probably, something like my own. Of course it was; why
didn't that thought occur to me before? How stupid I was. So saying, I seized a pair of scissors,
and cut a long lock beside my temple; this in a calm moment I might have hesitated about. "Yes,"
thought I, "she'll never discover the cheat; and besides, I do feel,--I know not exactly why,--rather
gratified to think that I shall have left this souvenir behind me, even though it call up other
recollections than of me." So thinking, I wrapped my cloak about me and hastened towards the
Casino.

CHAPTER XLI.

THE ROUTE.

I had scarcely gone a hundred yards from my quarters when a great tramp of horses' feet attracted
my attention. I stopped to listen, and soon heard the jingle of dragoon accoutrements, as the
noise came near. The night was dark but perfectly still; and before I stood many minutes I
heard the tones of a voice which I well knew could belong to but one, and that Fred Power.

"Fred Power!" said I, shouting at the same time at the top of my voice,--"Power!"

"Ah, Charley, is that you? Come along to the adjutant-general's quarters. I'm charged with
some important despatches, and can't stop till I've delivered them. Come along, I've glorious
news for you!" So saying, he dashed spurs to his horse, and followed by two mounted dragoons,
galloped past. Power's few and hurried words had so excited my curiosity that I turned at once
to follow him, questioning myself, as I walked along, to what he could possibly allude. He
knew of my attachment to Lucy Dashwood,--could he mean anything of her? But what could I expect
there; by what flattery could I picture to myself any chance of success in that quarter; and
yet, what other news could I care for or value than what bore upon her fate upon whom my own
depended? Thus ruminating, I reached the door of the spacious building in which the adjutant-general
had taken up his abode, and soon found myself among a crowd of persons whom the rumor of some
important event had assembled there, though no one could tell what had occurred. Before many
minutes the door opened, and Power came out; bowing hurriedly to a few, and whispering a word
or two as he passed down the steps, he seized me by the arm and led me across the street. "Charley,"
said he, "the curtain's rising; the piece is about to begin; a new commander-in-chief is sent
out,--Sir Arthur Wellesley, my boy, the finest fellow in England is to lead us on, and we march
to-morrow. There's news for you!" A raw boy, unread, uninformed as I was, I knew but little
of his career whose name had even then shed such lustre upon our army; but the buoyant tone
of Power as he spoke, the kindling energy of his voice roused me, and I felt every inch a soldier.
As I grasped his hand in delightful enthusiasm I lost all memory of my disappointment, and
in the beating throb that shook my head; I felt how deeply slept the ardor of military glory
that first led me from my home to see a battle-field.

"There goes the news!" said Frederick, pointing as he spoke to a rocket that shot up into the
sky, and as it broke into ten thousand stars, illuminated the broad stream where the ships
of war lay darkly resting. In another moment the whole air shone with similar fires, while
the deep roll of the drum sounded along the silent streets, and the city so lately sunk in
sleep became, as if by magic, thronged with crowds of people; the sharp clang of the cavalry
trumpet blended with the gay carol of the light-infantry bugle, and the heavy tramp of the
march was heard in the distance. All was excitement, all bustle; but in the joyous tone of
every voice was spoken the longing anxiety to meet the enemy. The gay, reckless tone of an
Irish song would occasionally reach us, as some Connaught Ranger or some 78th man passed, his
knapsack on his back; or the low monotonous pibroch of the Highlander, swelling into a war-cry,
as some kilted corps drew up their ranks together. We turned to regain our quarters, when at
the corner of a street we came suddenly upon a merry party seated around a table before a little
inn; a large street lamp, unhung for the occasion, had been placed in the midst of them, and
showed us the figures of several soldiers in undress; at the end, and raised a little above
his compeers, sat one whom, by the unfair proportion he assumed of the conversation, not less
than by the musical intonation of his voice, I soon recognized as my man, Mickey Free.

"I'll be hanged if that's not your fellow there, Charley," said Power, as he came to a dead
stop a few yards off. "What an impertinent varlet he is; only to think of him there, presiding
among a set of fellows that have fought all the battles in the Peninsular war. At this moment
I'll be hanged if he is not going to sing."

Here a tremendous thumping upon the table announced the fact, and after a few preliminary observations
from Mike, illustrative of his respect to the service in which he had so often distinguished
himself, he began, to the air of the "Young May Moon," a ditty of which I only recollect the
following verses:--

    "The pickets are fast retreating, boys,
    The last tattoo is beating, boys,
      So let every man
      Finish his can,
    And drink to our next merry meeting, boys.

    The colonel so gayly prancing, boys,
    Has a wonderful trick of advancing, boys,
      When he sings out so large,
      'Fix bayonets and charge!'
    He sets all the Frenchmen a-dancing, boys.

    Let Mounseer look ever so big, my boys,
    Who cares for fighting a fig, my boys?
      When we play 'Garryowen,'
      He'd rather go home;
    For somehow, he's no taste for a jig, my boys."

This admirable lyric seemed to have perfect success, if one were only to judge from the thundering
of voices, hands, and drinking vessels which followed; while a venerable, gray-haired sergeant
rose to propose Mr. Free's health, and speedy promotion to him.

We stood for several minutes in admiration of the party, when the loud roll of the drums beating
to arms awakened us to the thought that our moments were numbered.

"Good-night, Charley!" said Power, as he shook my hand warmly, "good-night! It will be your
last night under a curtain for some months to come; make the most of it. Adieu!"

So saying, we parted; he to his quarters, and I to all the confusion of my baggage, which lay
in most admired disorder about my room.

CHAPTER XLII.

THE FAREWELL.

The preparations for the march occupied me till near morning; and, indeed, had I been disposed
to sleep, the din and clamor of the world without would have totally prevented it. Before daybreak
the advanced guard was already in motion, and some squadrons of heavy cavalry had begun their
march.

I looked around my now dismantled room as one does usually for the last time ere leaving, and
bethought me if I had not forgotten anything. Apparently all was remembered; but stay,--what
is this? To be sure, how forgetful I had become! It was the packet I destined for Donna Inez,
and which, in the confusion of the night before, I had omitted to bring to the Casino.

I immediately despatched Mike to the commissary with my luggage and orders to ascertain when
we were expected to march. He soon returned with the intelligence that our corps was not to
move before noon, so that I had yet some hours to spare and make my adieux to the senhora.

I cannot exactly explain the reason, but I certainly did bestow a more than common attention
upon my toilet that morning. The senhora was nothing to me. It is true she had, as she lately
most candidly informed me, a score of admirers, among whom I was not even reckoned; she was
evidently a coquette whose greatest pleasure was to sport and amuse herself with the passions
she excited in others. And even if she were not,--if her heart were to be won to-morrow,--what
claim, what right, had I to seek it? My affections were already pledged; promised, it is true,
to one who gave nothing in return, and who, perhaps, even loved another. Ah, there was the
rub; that one confounded suspicion, lurking in the rear, chilled my courage and wounded my spirit.

If there be anything more disheartening to an Irishman, in his little affaires de coeur, than
another, it is the sense of rivalry. The obstinacy of fathers, the ill-will of mothers, the
coldness, the indifference of the lovely object herself,--obstacles though they be,--he has
tact, spirit, and perseverance to overcome them. But when a more successful candidate for the
fair presents himself; when the eye that remains downcast at his suit, lights up with animation
at another's coming; when the features whose cold and chilling apathy to him have blended in
one smile of welcome to another,--it is all up with him; he sees the game lost, and throws
his cards upon the table. And yet, why is this? Why is it that he whose birthright it would
seem to be sanguine when others despond, to be confident when all else are hopeless,--should
find his courage fail him here? The reason is simply--But, in good sooth, I am ashamed to confess
it!

Having jogged on so far with my reader, in all the sober seriousness which the matter-of-fact
material of these memoirs demands, I fear lest a seeming paradox may cause me to lose my good
name for veracity; and that while merely maintaining a national trait of my country, I may
appear to be asserting some unheard-of and absurd proposition,--so far have mere vulgar prejudices
gone to sap our character as a people.

The reason, then, is this,--for I have gone too far to retreat,--the Irishman is essentially
bashful. Well, laugh if you wish, for I conclude that, by this time, you have given way to
a most immoderate excess of risibility; but still, when you have perfectly recovered your composure,
I beg to repeat,--the Irishman is essentially a bashful man!

Do not for a moment fancy that I would by this imply that in any new or unexpected situation,
that from any unforeseen conjuncture of events, the Irishman would feel confused or abashed,
more than any other,--far from it. The cold and habitual reserve of the Englishman, the studied
caution of the North Tweeder himself, would exhibit far stronger evidences of awkwardness in
such circumstances as these. But on the other hand, when measuring his capacity, his means
of success, his probabilities of being preferred, with those of the natives of any other country,
I back the Irishman against the world for distrust of his own powers, for an under-estimate
of his real merits,--in one word, for his bashfulness. But let us return to Donna Inez.

As I rode up to the villa, I found the family assembled at breakfast. Several officers were
also present, among whom I was not sorry to recognize my friend Monsoon.

"Ah, Charley!" cried he, as I seated myself beside him, "what a pity all our fun is so soon
to have an end! Here's this confounded Soult won't be quiet and peaceable; but he must march
upon Oporto, and Heaven knows where besides, just as we were really beginning to enjoy life!
I had got such a contract for blankets! And now they've ordered me to join Beresford's corps
in the mountains; and you," here he dropped his voice,--"and you were getting on so devilish
well in this quarter; upon my life, I think you'd have carried the day. Old Don Emanuel--you
know he's a friend of mine--likes you very much. And then, there's Sparks--"

"Ay, Major, what of him? I have not seen him for some days."

"Why, they've been frightening the poor devil out of his life, O'Shaughnessy and a set of them.
They tried him by court-martial yesterday, and sentenced him to mount guard with a wooden sword
and a shooting jacket, which he did. Old Colbourne, it seems, saw him; and faith, there would
be the devil to pay if the route had not come! Some of them would certainly have got a long
leave to see their friends."

"Why is not the senhora here, Major? I don't see her at table."

"A cold, a sore throat, a wet-feet affair of last night, I believe. Pass that cold pie down
here. Sherry, if you please. You didn't see Power to-day?"

"No: we parted late last night; I have not been to bed."

"Very bad preparation for a march; take some burned brandy in your coffee."

"Then you don't think the senhora will appear?"

"Very unlikely. But stay, you know her room,--the small drawing-room that looks out upon the
flower-garden; she usually passes the morning there. Leap the little wooden paling round the
corner, and the chances are ten to one you find her."

I saw from the occupied air of Don Antonio that there was little fear of interruption on his
part; so taking an early moment to escape unobserved, I rose and left the room. When I sprang
over the oak fence, I found myself in a delicious little garden, where roses, grown to a height
never seen in our colder climate, formed a deep bower of rich blossom.

The major was right. The senhora was in the room, and in one moment I was beside her.

"Nothing but my fears of not bidding you farewell could palliate my thus intruding, Donna Inez;
but as we are ordered away--"

"When? Not so soon, surely?"

"Even so; to-day, this very hour. But you see that even in the hurry of departure, I have not
forgotten my trust; this is the packet I promised you."

So saying, I placed the paper with the lock of hair within her hand, and bending downwards,
pressed my lips upon her taper fingers. She hurriedly snatched her hand away, and tearing open
the enclosure, took out the lock. She looked steadily for a moment at it, then at me, and again
at it, and at length, bursting into a fit of laughing, threw herself upon a chair in a very
ecstasy of mirth.

"Why, you don't mean to impose this auburn ringlet upon me for one of poor Howard's jetty curls?
What downright folly to think of it! And then, with how little taste the deception was practised,--upon
your very temples, too! One comfort is, you are utterly spoiled by it."

Here she again relapsed into a fit of laughter, leaving me perfectly puzzled what to think
of her, as she resumed:--

"Well, tell me now, am I to reckon this as a pledge of your own allegiance, or am I still to
believe it to be Edward Howard's? Speak, and truly."

"Of my own, most certainly," said I, "if it will be accepted."

"Why, after such treachery, perhaps it ought not; but still, as you have already done yourself
such injury, and look so very silly, withal--"

"That you are even resolved to give me cause to look more so," added I.

"Exactly," said she, "for here, now, I reinstate you among my true and faithful admirers. Kneel
down, Sir Knight--in token of which you will wear this scarf--"

A sudden start which the donna gave at these words brought me to my feet. She was pale as death
and trembling.

"What means this?" said I. "What has happened?"

She pointed with her finger towards the garden; but though her lips moved, no voice came forth.
I sprang through the open window; I rushed into the copse, the only one which might afford
concealment for a figure, but no one was there. After a few minutes' vain endeavor to discover
any trace of an intruder, I returned to the chamber. The donna was there still, but how changed;
her gayety and animation were gone, her pale cheek and trembling lip bespoke fear and suffering,
and her cold hand lay heavily beside her.

"I thought--perhaps it was merely fancy--but I thought I saw Trevyllian beside the window."

"Impossible!" said I. "I have searched every walk and alley. It was nothing but imagination,--believe
me, no more. There, be assured; think no more of it."

While I endeavored thus to reassure her, I was very far from feeling perfectly at ease myself;
the whole bearing and conduct of this man had inspired me with a growing dislike of him, and
I felt already half-convinced that he had established himself as a spy upon my actions.

"Then you really believe I was mistaken?" said the donna, as she placed her hand within mine.

"Of course I do; but speak no more of it. You must not forget how few my moments are here.
Already I have heard the tramp of horses without. Ah! there they are. In a moment more I shall
be missed; so, once more, fairest Inez--Nay, I beg pardon if I have dared to call you thus;
but think, if it be the first it may also be the last time I shall ever speak it."

Her head gently drooped, as I said these words, till it sank upon my shoulder, her long and
heavy hair falling upon my neck and across my bosom. I felt her heart almost beat against my
side; I muttered some words, I know not what; I felt them like a prayer; I pressed her cold
forehead to my lips, rushed from the room, cleared the fence at a spring, and was far upon
the road to Lisbon ere I could sufficiently collect my senses to know whither I was going.
Of little else was I conscious; my mind was full to bursting; and in the confusion of my excited
brain, fiction and reality were so inextricably mingled as to defy every endeavor at discrimination.
But little time had I for reflection. As I reached the city, the brigade to which I was attached
was already under arms, and Mike impatiently waiting my arrival with the horses.

CHAPTER XXLIII.

THE MARCH.

What a strange spectacle did the road to Oliveira present upon the morning of the 7th of May!
A hurried or incautious observer might, at first sight, have pronounced the long line of troops
which wended their way through the valley as the remains of a broken and routed army, had not
the ardent expression and bright eye that beamed on every side assured him that men who looked
thus could not be beaten ones. Horse, foot, baggage, artillery, dismounted dragoons, even the
pale and scarcely recovered inhabitants of the hospital, might have been seen hurrying on;
for the order, "Forward!" had been given at Lisbon, and those whose wounds did not permit their
joining, were more pitied for their loss than its cause. More than one officer was seen at
the head of his troop with an arm in a sling, or a bandaged forehead; while among the men similar
evidences of devotion were not unfrequent. As for me, long years and many reverses have not
obliterated, scarcely blunted, the impression that sight made on me. The splendid spectacle
of a review had often excited and delighted me, but here there was the glorious reality of
war,--the bronzed faces, the worn uniforms, the well-tattered flags, the roll of the heavy
guns mingling with the wild pibroch of the Highlander, or scarcely less wild recklessness of
the Irish quick-step; while the long line of cavalry, their helmets and accoutrements shining
in the morning sun, brought back one's boyish dreams of joust and tournament, and made the
heart beat high with chivalrous enthusiasm.

"Yes," said I, half aloud, "this is indeed a realization of what I longed and thirsted for,"
the clang of the music and the tramp of the cavalry responding to my throbbing pulses as we
moved along.

"Close up, there; trot!" cried out a deep and manly voice; and immediately a general officer
rode by, followed by an aide-de-camp.

"There goes Cotton," said Power. "You may feel easy in your mind now, Charley; there's some
work before us."

"You have not heard our destination?" said I.

"Nothing is known for certain yet. The report goes, that Soult is advancing upon Oporto; and
the chances are, Sir Arthur intends to hasten on to its relief. Our fellows are at Ovar, with
General Murray."

"I say, Charley, old Monsoon is in a devil of a flurry. He expected to have been peaceably
settled down in Lisbon for the next six months, and he has received orders to set out for Beresford's
headquarters immediately; and from what I hear, they have no idle time."

"Well, Sparks, how goes it, man? Better fun this than the cook's galley, eh?"

"Why, do you know, these hurried movements put me out confoundedly. I found Lisbon very interesting,--the
little I could see of it last night."

"Ah, my dear fellow, think of the lovely Andalusian lasses with their brown transparent skins
and liquid eyes. Why, you'd have been over head and ears in love in twenty-four hours more,
had we stayed."

"Are they really so pretty?"

"Pretty! downright lovely, man. Why, they have a way of looking at you, over their fans,--just
one glance, short and fleeting, but so melting, by Jove--Then their walk,--if it be not profane
to call that springing, elastic gesture by such a name,--why, it's regular witchcraft. Sparks,
my man, I tremble for you. Do you know, by-the-bye, that same pace of theirs is a devilish
hard thing to learn. I never could come it; and yet, somehow, I was formerly rather a crack
fellow at a ballet. Old Alberto used to select me for a pas de zéphyr among a host; but there's
a kind of a hop and a slide and a spring,--in fact you must have been wearing petticoats for
eighteen years, and have an Andalusian instep and an india-rubber sole to your foot, or it's
no use trying it. How I used to make them laugh at the old San Josef convent, formerly, by
my efforts in the cause!"

"Why, how did it ever occur to you to practise it?"

"Many a man's legs have saved his head, Charley, and I put it to mine to do a similar office
for me."

"True; but I never heard of a man that performed a pas seul before the enemy."

"Not exactly; but still you're not very wide of the mark. If you'll only wait till we reach
Pontalegue, I'll tell you the story; not that it's worth the delay, but talking at this brisk
pace I don't admire."

"You leave a detachment here, Captain Power," said an aide-de-camp, riding hastily up; "and
General Cotton requests you will send a subaltern and two sergeants forward towards Berar to
reconnoitre the pass. Franchesca's cavalry are reported in that quarter." So speaking, he dashed
spurs to his horse, and was out of sight in an instant.

Power, at the same moment, wheeled to the rear, from which he returned in an instant, accompanied
by three well-mounted light dragoons. "Sparks," said he, "now for an occasion of distinguishing
yourself. You heard the order, lose no time; and as your horse is an able one, and fresh, lose
not a second, but forward."

No sooner was Sparks despatched on what it was evident he felt to be anything but a pleasant
duty, than I turned towards Power, and said, with some tinge of disappointment in the tone,
"Well, if you really felt there was anything worth doing there, I flattered myself that--"

"Speak out man. That I should have sent you, eh? Is it not so?"

"Yes, you've hit it."

"Well, Charley, my peace is easily made on this head. Why, I selected Sparks simply to spare
you one of the most unpleasant duties that can be imposed upon a man; a duty which, let him
discharge it to the uttermost, will never be acknowledged, and the slightest failure in which
will be remembered for many a day against him, besides the pleasant and very probable prospect
of being selected as a bull's eye for a French rifle, or carried off a prisoner; eh, Charley?
There's no glory in that, devil a ray of it! Come, come, old fellow, Fred Power's not the man
to keep his friend out of the mêlée, if only anything can be made by being in it. Poor Sparks,
I'd swear, is as little satisfied with the arrangement as yourself, if one knew but all."

"I say, Power," said a tall, dashing-looking man of about five-and-forty, with a Portuguese
order on his breast,--"I say, Power, dine with us at the halt."

"With pleasure, if I may bring my young friend here."

"Of course; pray introduce us."

"Major Hixley, Mr. O'Malley,--a 14th man, Hixley."

"Delighted to make your acquaintance, Mr. O'Malley. Knew a famous fellow in Ireland of your
name, a certain Godfrey O'Malley, member for some county or other."

"My uncle," said I, blushing deeply, with a pleasurable feeling at even this slight praise
of my oldest friend.

"Your uncle! give me your hand. By Jove, his nephew has a right to good treatment at my hands;
he saved my life in the year '98. And how is old Godfrey?"

"Quite well, when I left him some months ago; a little gout, now and then."

"To be sure he has, no man deserves it better; but it's a gentlemanlike gout that merely jogs
his memory in the morning of the good wine he has drank over night. By-the-bye, what became
of a friend of his, a devilish eccentric fellow who held a command in the Austrian service?"

"Oh, Considine, the count?"

"The same."

"As eccentric as ever; I left him on a visit with my uncle. And Boyle,--did you know Sir Harry
Boyle?"

"To be sure I did; shall I ever forget him, and his capital blunders, that kept me laughing
the whole time I spent in Ireland? I was in the house when he concluded a panegyric upon a
friend, by calling him, 'the father to the poor, and uncle to Lord Donoughmore.'"

"He was the only man who could render by a bull what it was impossible to convey more correctly,"
said Power.

"You've heard of his duel with Dick Toler?"

"Never; let's hear it."

"It was a bull from beginning to end. Boyle took it into his head that Dick was a person with
whom he had a serious row in Cork. Dick, on the other hand, mistook Boyle for old Caples, whom
he had been pursuing with horse-whipping intentions for some months. They met in Kildare Street
Club, and very little colloquy satisfied them that they were right in their conjectures, each
party being so eagerly ready to meet the views of the other. It never was a difficult matter
to find a friend in Dublin; and to do them justice, Irish seconds, generally speaking, are
perfectly free from any imputation upon the score of mere delay. No men have less impertinent
curiosity as to the cause of the quarrel; wisely supposing that the principals know their own
affairs best, they cautiously abstain from indulging any prying spirit, but proceed to discharge
their functions as best they may. Accordingly, Sir Harry and Dick were 'set up,' as the phrase
is, at twelve paces, and to use Boyle's own words, for I have heard him relate the story,--

"We blazed away, sir, for three rounds. I put two in his hat and one in his neckcloth; his
shots went all through the skirt of my coat.

"'We'll spend the day here,' says Considine, 'at this rate. Couldn't you put them closer?'

"'And give us a little more time in the word,' says I.

"'Exactly,' said Dick.

"Well, they moved us forward two paces, and set to loading the pistols again.

"By this time we were so near that we had full opportunity to scan each other's faces. Well,
sir, I stared at him, and he at me.

"'What!' said I.

"'Eh!' said he.

"'How's this?' said I.

"'You're not Billy Caples?' said he.

"'Devil a bit!' said I, 'nor I don't think you are Archy Devine;' and faith, sir, so it appeared,
we were fighting away all the morning for nothing; for, somehow, it turned out it was neither
of us!"

What amused me most in this anecdote was the hearing it at such a time and place. That poor
Sir Harry's eccentricities should turn up for discussion on a march in Portugal was singular
enough; but after all, life is full of such incongruous accidents. I remember once supping
with King Calzoo on the Blue Mountains, in Jamaica. By way of entertaining his guests, some
English officers, he ordered one of his suite to sing. We were of course pleased at the opportunity
of hearing an Indian war-chant, with a skull and thigh-bone accompaniment; but what was our
astonishment to hear the Indian,--a ferocious-looking dog, with an awful scalp-lock, and two
streaks of red paint across his chest,--clear his voice well for a few seconds, and then begin,
without discomposing a muscle of his gravity, "The Laird of Cockpen!" I need not say that the
"Great Raccoon" was a Dumfries man who had quitted Scotland forty years before, and with characteristic
prosperity had attained his present rank in a foreign service.

"Halt! halt!" cried a deep-toned, manly voice in the leading column, and the word was repeated
from mouth to mouth to the rear.

We dismounted, and picketing our horses beneath the broad-leaved foliage of the cork-trees,
stretched ourselves out at full length upon the grass, while our messmen prepared the dinner.
Our party at first consisted of Hixley, Power, the adjutant, and myself; but our number was
soon increased by three officers of the 6th Foot, about to join their regiment.

"Barring the ladies, God bless them!" said Power, "there are no such picnics as campaigning
presents. The charms of scenery are greatly enhanced by their coming unexpectedly on you. Your
chance good fortune in the prog has an interest that no ham-and-cold-chicken affair, prepared
by your servants beforehand, and got ready with a degree of fuss and worry that converts the
whole party into an assembly of cooks, can ever afford; and lastly, the excitement that this
same life of ours is never without, gives a zest--"

"There you've hit it," cried Hixley; "it's that same feeling of uncertainty that those who
meet now may ever do so again, full as it is of sorrowful reflection, that still teaches us,
as we become inured to war, to economize our pleasures, and be happy when we may. Your health,
O'Malley, and your uncle Godfrey's too."

"A little more of the pastry."

"What a capital guinea fowl this is!"

"That's some of old Monsoon's particular port."

"Pass it round here. Really this is pleasant."

"My blessing on the man who left that vista yonder! See what a glorious valley stretches out
there, undulating in its richness; and look at those dark trees, where just one streak of soft
sunlight is kissing their tops, giving them one chaste good-night--"

"Well done, Power!"

"Confound you, you've pulled me short, and I was about becoming downright pastoral. Apropos
of kissing, I understand Sir Arthur won't allow the convents to be occupied by troops."

"And apropos of convents," said I, "let's hear your story; you promised it a while ago."

"My dear Charley, it's far too early in the evening for a story. I should rather indulge my
poetic fancies here, under the shade of melancholy boughs; and besides, I am not half screwed
up yet."

"Come, Adjutant, let's have a song."

"I'll sing you a Portuguese serenade when the next bottle comes in. What capital port! Have
you much of it?"

"Only three dozen. We got it late last night; forged an order from the commanding officer and
sent it up to old Monsoon,--'for hospital use.' He gave it with a tear in his eye, saying,
as the sergeant marched away, 'Only think of such wine for fellows that may be in the next
world before morning! It's a downright sin!'"

"I say, Power, there's something going on there."

At this instant the trumpet sounded "boot and saddle," and like one man the whole mass rose
up, when the scene, late so tranquil, became one of excited bustle and confusion. An aide-de-camp
galloped past towards the river, followed by two orderly sergeants; and the next moment Sparks
rode up, his whole equipment giving evidence of a hurried ride, while his cheek was deadly
pale and haggard.

Power presented to him a goblet of sherry, which, having emptied at a draught, he drew a long
breath, and said, "They are coming,--coming in force!"

"Who are coming?" said Power. "Take time, man, and collect yourself."

"The French! I saw them a devilish deal closer than I liked. They wounded one of the orderlies
and took the other prisoner."

"Forward!" said a hoarse voice in the front. "March! trot!" And before we could obtain any
further information from Sparks, whose faculties seemed to have received a terrific shock,
we were once more in the saddle, and moving at a brisk pace onward.

Sparks had barely time to tell us that a large body of French cavalry occupied the pass of
Berar, when he was sent for by General Cotton to finish his report.

"How frightened the fellow is!" said Hixley.

"I don't think the worse of poor Sparks for all that," said Power. "He saw those fellows for
the first time, and no bird's-eye view of them either."

"Then we are in for a skirmish, at least," said I.

"It would appear not, from that," said Hixley, pointing to the head of the column, which, leaving
the high road upon the left, entered the forest by a deep cleft that opened upon a valley traversed
by a broad river.

"That looks very like taking up a position, though," said Power.

"Look,--look down yonder!" cried Hixley, pointing to a dip in the plain beside the river. "Is
there not a cavalry picket there?"

"Right, by Jove! I say, Fitzroy," said Power to an aide-de-camp as he passed, "what's going on?"

"Soult has carried Oporto," cried he, "and Franchesca's cavalry have escaped."

"And who are these fellows in the valley?"

"Our own people coming up."

In less than half an hour's brisk trotting we reached the stream, the banks of which were occupied
by two cavalry regiments advancing to the main army; and what was my delight to find that one
of them was our own corps, the 14th Light Dragoons!

"Hurra!" cried Power, waving his cap as he came up. "How are you, Sedgewick? Baker, my hearty,
how goes it? How is Hampton and the colonel?"

In an instant we were surrounded by our brother officers, who all shook me cordially by the
hand, and welcomed me to the regiment with most gratifying warmth.

"One of us," said Power, with a knowing look, as he introduced me; and the freemasonry of these
few words secured me a hearty greeting.

"Halt! halt! Dismount!" sounded again from front to rear; and in a few minutes we were once
more stretched upon the grass, beneath the deep and mellow moonlight, while the bright stream
ran placidly beside us, reflecting on its calm surface the varied groups as they lounged or
sat around the blazing fires of the bivouac.

CHAPTER XLIV.

THE BIVOUAC.

When I contrasted the gay and lively tone of the conversation which ran on around our bivouac
fire, with the dry monotony and prosaic tediousness of my first military dinner at Cork, I
felt how much the spirit and adventure of a soldier's life can impart of chivalrous enthusiasm
to even the dullest and least susceptible. I saw even many who under common circumstances,
would have possessed no interest nor excited any curiosity, but now, connected as they were
with the great events occurring around them, absolutely became heroes; and it was with a strange,
wild throbbing of excitement I listened to the details of movements and marches, whose objects
I knew not, but in which the magical words, Corunna, Vimeira, were mixed up, and gave to the
circumstances an interest of the highest character. How proud, too, I felt to be the companion-in-arms
of such fellows! Here they sat, the tried and proved soldiers of a hundred fights, treating
me as their brother and their equal. Who need wonder if I felt a sense of excited pleasure?
Had I needed such a stimulant, that night beneath the cork-trees had been enough to arouse
a passion for the army in my heart, and an irrepressible determination to seek for a soldier's
glory.

"Fourteenth!" called out a voice from the wood behind; and in a moment after, the aide-de-camp
appeared with a mounted orderly.

"Colonel Merivale?" said he, touching his cap to the stalwart, soldier-like figure before him.

The colonel bowed.

"Sir Stapleton Cotton desires me to request that at an early hour to-morrow you will occupy
the pass, and cover the march of the troops. It is his wish that all the reinforcements should
arrive at Oporto by noon. I need scarcely add that we expect to be engaged with the enemy."

These few words were spoken hurriedly, and again saluting our party, he turned his horse's
head and continued his way towards the rear.

"There's news for you, Charley," said Power, slapping me on the shoulder. "Lucy Dashwood or
Westminster Abbey!"

"The regiment was never in finer condition, that's certain," said the colonel, "and most eager
for a brush with the enemy."

"How your old friend, the count, would have liked this work!" said Hixley. "Gallant fellow he was."

"Come," cried Power, "here's a fresh bowl coming. Let's drink the ladies, wherever they be;
we most of us have some soft spot on that score."

"Yes," said the adjutant, singing,--

    "Here's to the maiden of blushing fifteen;
      Here's to the damsel that's merry;
    Here's to the flaunting extravagant quean--"

"And," sang Power, interrupting,--

      "Here's to the 'Widow of Derry.'"

"Come, come, Fred, no more quizzing on that score. It's the only thing ever gives me a distaste
to the service,--the souvenir of that adventure. When I reflect what I might have been, and
think what I am; when I contrast a Brussels carpet with wet grass, silk hangings with a canvas
tent, Sneyd's claret with ration brandy, and Sir Arthur for a Commander-in-Chief vice Boggs,
a widow--"

"Stop there!" cried Hixley. "Without disparaging the fair widow, there's nothing beats campaigning,
after all. Eh, Fred?"

"And to prove it," said the colonel, "Power will sing us a song."

Power took his pencil from his pocket, and placing the back of a letter across his shako, commenced
inditing his lyric, saying, as he did so, "I'm your man in five minutes. Just fill my glass
in the mean time."

"That fellow beats Dibdin hollow," whispered the adjutant. "I'll be hanged if he'll not knock
you off a song like lightning."

"I understand," said Hixley, "they have some intention at the Horse Guards of having all the
general orders set to popular tunes, and sung at every mess in the service. You've heard that,
I suppose, Sparks?"

"I confess I had not before."

"It will certainly come very hard upon the subalterns," continued Hixley, with much gravity.
"They'll have to brush up their sol mi fas. All the solos are to be their part."

"What rhymes with slaughter?" said Power.

"Brandy-and-water," said the adjutant.

"Now, then," said Power, "are you all ready?"

"Ready."

"You must chorus, mind; and mark me, take care you give the hip-hip-hurra well, as that's the
whole force of the chant. Take the time from me. Now for it. Air, 'Garryowen,' with spirit,
but not too quick.

    "Now that we've pledged each eye of blue,
    And every maiden fair and true,
    And our green island home,--to you
      The ocean's wave adorning,
    Let's give one Hip-hip-hip-hurra!
    And, drink e'en to the coming day,
          When, squadron square,
          We'll all be there,
      To meet the French in the morning.

    "May his bright laurels never fade,
    Who leads our fighting fifth brigade,
    Those lads so true in heart and blade,
      And famed for danger scorning.

    "And when with years and honors crowned,
    You sit some homeward hearth around,
    And hear no more the stirring sound
          That spoke the trumpet's warning,
    You'll fill and drink, one Hip-hurra!
    And pledge the memory of the day,
          When, squadron square,
          They all were there,
      To meet the French in the morning."

"Gloriously done, Fred!" cried Hixley. "If I ever get my deserts in this world, I'll make you
Laureate to the Forces, with a hogshead of your own native whiskey for every victory of the army."

"A devilish good chant," said Merivale, "but the air surpasses anything I ever heard,--thoroughly
Irish, I take it."

"Irish! upon my conscience, I believe you!" shouted O'Shaughnessy, with an energy of voice
and manner that created a hearty laugh on all sides. "It's few people ever mistook it for a
Venetian melody. Hand over the punch,--the sherry, I mean. When I was in the Clare militia,
we always went in to dinner to 'Tatter Jack Walsh,' a sweet air, and had 'Garryowen' for a
quick-step. Ould M'Manus, when he got the regiment, wanted to change: he said, they were damned
vulgar tunes, and wanted to have 'Rule Britannia,' or the 'Hundredth Psalm;' but we would not
stand it; there would have been a mutiny in the corps."

"The same fellow, wasn't he, that you told the story of, the other evening, in Lisbon?" said I.

"The same. Well, what a character he was! As pompous and conceited a little fellow as ever
you met with; and then, he was so bullied by his wife, he always came down to revenge it on
the regiment. She was a fine, showy, vulgar woman, with a most cherishing affection for all
the good things in this life, except her husband, whom she certainly held in due contempt.
'Ye little crayture,' she'd say to him with a sneer, 'it ill becomes you to drink and sing,
and be making a man of yourself. If you were like O'Shaughnessy there, six foot three in his
stockings--'Well, well, it looks like boasting; but no matter. Here's her health, anyway."

"I knew you were tender in that quarter," said Power, "I heard it when quartered in Limerick."

"May be you heard, too, how I paid off Mac, when he came down on a visit to that county?"

"Never: let's hear it now."

"Ay, O'Shaughnessy, now's your time; the fire's a good one, the night fine, and liquor plenty."

"I'm convanient," said O'Shaughnessy, as depositing his enormous legs on each side of the burning
fagots, and placing a bottle between his knees he began his story:--

"It was a cold rainy night in January, in the year '98, I took my place in the Limerick mail,
to go down for a few days to the west country. As the waiter of the Hibernian came to the door
with a lantern, I just caught a glimpse of the other insides; none of whom were known to me,
except Colonel M'Manus, that I met once in a boarding-house in Molcsworth Street. I did not,
at the time, think him a very agreeable companion; but when morning broke, and we began to
pay our respects to each other in the coach, I leaned over, and said, 'I hope you're well,
Colonel M'Manus,' just by way of civility like. He didn't hear me at first; so that I said
it again, a little louder.

"I wish you saw the look he gave me; he drew himself up to the height of his cotton umbrella,
put his chin inside his cravat, pursed up his dry, shrivelled lips, and with a voice he meant
to be awful, replied:--

"'You appear to have the advantage of me.'

"'Upon my conscience, you're right,' said I, looking down at myself, and then over at him,
at which the other travellers burst out a laughing,--'I think there's few will dispute that
point.' When the laugh was over, I resumed,--for I was determined not to let him off so easily.
'Sure I met you at Mrs. Cayle's,' said I; 'and, by the same token, it was a Friday, I remember
it well,--may be you didn't pitch into the salt cod? I hope it didn't disagree with you?'

"'I beg to repeat, sir, that you are under a mistake,' said he.

"'May be so, indeed,' said I. 'May be you're not Colonel M'Manus at all; may be you wasn't
in a passion for losing seven-and-sixpence at loo with Mrs. Moriarty; may be you didn't break
the lamp in the hall with your umbrella, pretending you touched it with your head, and wasn't
within three foot of it; may be Counsellor Brady wasn't going to put you in the box of the
Foundling Hospital, if you wouldn't behave quietly in the streets--'

"Well, with this the others laughed so heartily, that I could not go on; and the next stage
the bold colonel got outside with the guard and never came in till we reached Limerick. I'll
never forget his face, as he got down at Swinburne's Hotel. 'Good-by, Colonel,' said I; but
he wouldn't take the least notice of my politeness, but with a frown of utter defiance, he
turned on his heel and walked away.

"'I haven't done with you yet,' says I; and, faith, I kept my word.

"I hadn't gone ten yards down the street, when I met my old friend Darby O'Grady.

"'Shaugh, my boy,' says he,--he called me that way for shortness,--'dine with me to-day at
Mosey's; a green goose and gooseberries; six to a minute.'

"'Who have you?' says I.

"'Tom Keane and the Wallers, a counsellor or two, and one M'Manus, from Dublin.'

"'The colonel?'

"'The same,' said he.

"'I'm there, Darby!' said I; 'but mind, you never saw me before.'

"'What?' said he.

"'You never set eyes on me before; mind that.'

"'I understand,' said Darby, with a wink; and we parted.

"I certainly was never very particular about dressing for dinner, but on this day I spent a
considerable time at my toilet; and when I looked in my glass at its completion, was well satisfied
that I had done myself justice. A waistcoat of brown rabbit-skin with flaps, a red worsted
comforter round my neck, an old gray shooting-jacket with a brown patch on the arm, corduroys,
and leather gaiters, with a tremendous oak cudgel in my hand, made me a most presentable figure
for a dinner party.

"'Will I do, Darby?' says I, as he came into my room before dinner.

"'If it's for robbing the mail you are,' says he, 'nothing could be better. Your father wouldn't
know you!'

"'Would I be the better of a wig?'

"'Leave your hair alone,' said he. 'It's painting the lily to alter it.'

"'Well, God's will be done,' says I, 'so come now.'

"Well, just as the clock struck six I saw the colonel coming out of his room, in a suit of
most accurate sable, stockings, and pumps. Down-stairs he went, and I heard the waiter announce
him.

"'Now's my time,' thought I, as I followed slowly after.

"When I reached the door I heard several voices within, among which I recognized some ladies.
Darby had not told me about them. 'But no matter,' said I; 'it's all as well;' so I gave a
gentle tap at the door with my knuckles.

"'Come in,' said Darby.

"I opened the door slowly, and putting in only my head and shoulders took a cautious look round
the room.

"'I beg pardon, gentlemen,' said I, 'but I was only looking for one Colonel M'Manus, and as
he is not here--'

"'Pray walk in, sir,' said O'Grady, with a polite bow. 'Colonel M'Manus is here. There's no
intrusion whatever. I say, Colonel,' said he turning round, 'a gentleman here desires to--'

"'Never mind it now,' said I, as I stepped cautiously into the room, 'he's going to dinner;
another time will do just as well.'

"'Pray come in!'

"'I could not think of intruding--'

"'I must protest,' said M'Manus, coloring up, 'that I cannot understand this gentleman's visit.'

"'It is a little affair I have to settle with him,' said I, with a fierce look that I saw produced
its effect.

"'Then perhaps you would do me the very great favor to join him at dinner,' said O'Grady. 'Any
friend of Colonel M'Manus--'

"'You are really too good,' said I; 'but as an utter stranger--'

"'Never think of that for a moment. My friend's friend, as the adage says.'

"'Upon my conscience, a good saying,' said I, 'but you see there's another difficulty. I've
ordered a chop and potatoes up in No. 5.'

"'Let that be no obstacle,' said O'Grady. 'The waiter shall put it in my bill; if you will
only do me the pleasure.'

"'You're a trump,' said I. 'What's your name?'

"'O'Grady, at your service.'

"'Any relation of the counsellor?' said I. 'They're all one family, the O'Gradys. I'm Mr. O'Shaughnessy,
from Ennis; won't you introduce me to the ladies?'

"While the ceremony of presentation was going on I caught one glance at M'Manus, and had hard
work not to roar out laughing. Such an expression of surprise, amazement, indignation, rage,
and misery never was mixed up in one face before. Speak he could not; and I saw that, except
for myself, he had neither eyes, ears, nor senses for anything around him. Just at this moment
dinner was announced, and in we went. I never was in such spirits in my life; the trick upon
M'Manus had succeeded perfectly; he believed in his heart that I had never met O'Grady in my
life before, and that upon the faith of our friendship, I had received my invitation. As for
me, I spared him but little. I kept up a running fire of droll stories, had the ladies in fits
of laughing, made everlasting allusions to the colonel; and, in a word, ere the soup had disappeared,
except himself, the company was entirely with me.

"'O'Grady,' said I, 'forgive the freedom, but I feel as if we were old acquaintances.'

"'As Colonel M'Manus's friend,' said he, 'you can take no liberty here to which you are not
perfectly welcome.'

"'Just what I expected,' said I. 'Mac and I,'--I wish you saw his face when I called him Mac,--'Mac
and I were schoolfellows five-and-thirty years ago; though he forgets me, I don't forget him,--to
be sure it would be hard for me. I'm just thinking of the day Bishop Oulahan came over to visit
the college. Mac was coming in at the door of the refectory as the bishop was going out. "Take
off your caubeen, you young scoundrel, and kneel down for his reverence to bless you," said
one of the masters, giving his hat a blow at the same moment that sent it flying to the other
end of the room, and with it, about twenty ripe pears that Mac had just stolen in the orchard,
and had in his hat. I wish you only saw the bishop; and Mac himself, he was a picture. Well,
well, you forget it all now, but I remember it as if it was only yesterday. Any champagne,
Mr. O'Grady? I'm mighty dry.'

"'Of course,' said Darby. 'Waiter, some champagne here.'

"'Ah, it's himself was the boy for every kind of fun and devilment, quiet and demure as he
looks over there. Mac, your health. It's not every day of the week we get champagne.'

"He laid down his knife and fork as I said this; his face and temples grew deep purple; his
eyes started as if they would spring from his head; and he put both his hands to his forehead,
as if trying to assure himself that it was not some horrid dream.

"'A little slice more of the turkey,' said I, 'and then, O'Grady, I'll try your hock. It's
a wine I'm mighty fond of, and so is Mac there. Oh, it's seldom, to tell you the truth, it
troubles us. There, fill up the glass; that's it. Here now, Darby,--that's your name, I think,--you'll
not think I'm taking a liberty in giving a toast? Here then, I'll give M'Manus's health, with
all the honors; though it's early yet, to be sure, but we'll do it again, by-and-by, when the
whiskey comes. Here's M'Manus's good health; and though his wife, they say, does not treat
him well, and keeps him down--'

"The roar of laughing that interrupted me here was produced by the expression of poor Mac's
face. He had started up from the table, and leaning with both his hands upon it, stared round
upon the company like a maniac,--his mouth and eyes wide open, and his hair actually bristling
with amazement. Thus he remained for a full minute, gasping like a fish in a landing-net. It
seemed a hard struggle for him to believe he was not deranged. At last his eyes fell upon me;
he uttered a deep groan, and with a voice tremulous with rage, thundered out,--

"'The scoundrel! I never saw him before.'

"He rushed from the room, and gained the street. Before our roar of laughter was over he had
secured post-horses, and was galloping towards Ennis at the top speed of his cattle.

"He exchanged at once into the line; but they say that he caught a glimpse of my name in the
army list, and sold out the next morning; be that as it may, we never met since."

I have related O'Shaughnessy's story here, rather from the memory I have of how we all laughed
at it at the time, than from any feeling as to its real desert; but when I think of the voice,
look, accent, and gesture of the narrator, I can scarcely keep myself from again giving way
to laughter.

CHAPTER XLV.

THE DOURO.

Never did the morning break more beautifully than on the 12th of May, 1809. Huge masses of
fog-like vapor had succeeded to the starry, cloudless night, but one by one, they moved onwards
towards the sea, disclosing as they passed long tracts of lovely country, bathed in a rich
golden glow. The broad Douro, with its transparent current, shone out like a bright-colored
ribbon, meandering through the deep garment of fairest green; the darkly shadowed mountains
which closed the background loomed even larger than they were; while their summits were tipped
with the yellow glory of the morning. The air was calm and still, and the very smoke that arose
from the peasant's cot labored as it ascended through the perfumed air, and save the ripple
of the stream, all was silent as the grave.

The squadron of the 14th, with which I was, had diverged from the road beside the river, and
to obtain a shorter path, had entered the skirts of a dark pine wood; our pace was a sharp
one; an orderly had been already despatched to hasten our arrival, and we pressed on at a brisk
trot. In less than an hour we reached the verge of the wood, and as we rode out upon the plain,
what a spectacle met our eyes! Before us, in a narrow valley separated from the river by a
low ridge, were picketed three cavalry regiments; their noiseless gestures and perfect stillness
be-speaking at once that they were intended for a surprise party. Farther down the stream,
and upon the opposite side, rose the massive towers and tall spires of Oporto, displaying from
their summits the broad ensign of France; while far as the eye could reach, the broad dark
masses of troops might be seen; the intervals between their columns glittering with the bright
equipments of their cavalry, whose steel caps and lances were sparkling in the sun-beams. The
bivouac fires were still smouldering, and marking where some part of the army had passed the
night; for early as it was, it was evident that their position had been changed; and even now,
the heavy masses of dark infantry might be seen moving from place to place, while the long
line of the road to Vallonga was marked with a vast cloud of dust. The French drum and the
light infantry bugle told, from time to time, that orders were passing among the troops; while
the glittering uniform of a staff officer, as he galloped from the town, bespoke the note of
preparation.

"Dismount! Steady; quietly, my lads," said the colonel, as he alighted upon the grass. "Let
the men have their breakfast."

The little amphitheatre we occupied hid us entirely from all observation on the part of the
enemy, but equally so excluded us from perceiving their movements. It may readily be supposed
then, with what impatience we waited here, while the din and clangor of the French force, as
they marched and countermarched so near us, were clearly audible. The orders were, however,
strict that none should approach the bank of the river, and we lay anxiously awaiting the moment
when this inactivity should cease. More than one orderly had arrived among us, bearing despatches
from headquarters; but where our main body was, or what the nature of the orders, no one could
guess. As for me, my excitement was at its height, and I could not speak for the very tension
of my nerves. The officers stood in little groups of two and three, whispering anxiously together;
but all I could collect was, that Soult had already begun his retreat upon Amarante, and that,
with the broad stream of the Douro between us, he defied our pursuit.

"Well, Charley," said Power, laying his arm upon my shoulder, "the French have given us the
slip this time; they are already in march, and even if we dared force a passage in the face
of such an enemy, it seems there is not a boat to be found. I have just seen Hammersley."

"Indeed! Where is he?" said I.

"He's gone back to Villa de Conde; he asked after you most particularly. Don't blush, man;
I'd rather back your chance than his, notwithstanding the long letter that Lucy sends him.
Poor fellow, he has been badly wounded, but, it seems, declines going back to England."

"Captain Power," said an orderly, touching his cap, "General Murray desires to see you."

Power hastened away, but returned in a few moments.

"I say, Charley, there's something in the wind here. I have just been ordered to try where
the stream is fordable. I've mentioned your name to the general, and I think you'll be sent
for soon. Good-by."

I buckled on my sword, and looking to my girths, stood watching the groups around me; when
suddenly a dragoon pulled his horse short up, and asked a man near me if Mr. O'Malley was there.

"Yes; I am he."

"Orders from General Murray, sir," said the man, and rode off at a canter.

I opened and saw that the despatch was addressed to Sir Arthur Wellesley, with the mere words,
"With haste!" on the envelope.

Now, which way to turn I knew not; so springing into the saddle, I galloped to where Colonel
Merivale was standing talking to the colonel of a heavy dragoon regiment.

"May I ask, sir, by which road I am to proceed with this despatch?"

"Along the river, sir," said the heavy ------, a large dark-browed man, with a most forbidding
look. "You'll soon see the troops; you'd better stir yourself, sir, or Sir Arthur is not very
likely to be pleased with you."

Without venturing a reply to what I felt a somewhat unnecessary taunt, I dashed spurs into
my horse, and turned towards the river. I had not gained the bank above a minute, when the
loud ringing of a rifle struck upon my ear; bang went another, and another. I hurried on, however,
at the top of my speed, thinking only of my mission and its pressing haste. As I turned an
angle of the stream, the vast column of the British came in sight, and scarcely had my eye
rested upon them when my horse staggered forwards, plunged twice with his head nearly to the
earth, and then, rearing madly up, fell backwards to the ground. Crushed and bruised as I felt
by my fall, I was soon aroused to the necessity of exertion; for as I disengaged myself from
the poor beast, I discovered he had been killed by a bullet in the counter; and scarcely had
I recovered my legs when a shot struck my shako and grazed my temples. I quickly threw myself
to the ground, and creeping on for some yards, reached at last some rising ground, from which
I rolled gently downwards into a little declivity, sheltered by the bank from the French fire.

When I arrived at headquarters, I was dreadfully fatigued and heated; but resolving not to
rest till I had delivered my despatches, I hastened towards the convent of La Sierra, where
I was told the commander-in-chief was.

As I came into the court of the convent, filled with general officers and people of the staff,
I was turning to ask how I should proceed, when Hixley caught my eye.

"Well, O'Malley, what brings you here?"

"Despatches from General Murray."

"Indeed; oh, follow me."

He hurried me rapidly through the buzzing crowd, and ascending a large gloomy stair, introduced
me into a room, whore about a dozen persons in uniform were writing at a long deal table.

"Captain Gordon," said he, addressing one of them, "despatches requiring immediate attention
have just been brought by this officer."

Before the sentence was finished the door opened, and a short, slight man, in a gray undress
coat, with a white cravat and a cocked hat, entered. The dead silence that ensued was not necessary
to assure me that he was one in authority,--the look of command his bold, stern features presented;
the sharp, piercing eye, the compressed lip, the impressive expression of the whole face, told
plainly that he was one who held equally himself and others in mastery.

"Send General Sherbroke here," said he to an aide-de-camp. "Let the light brigade march into
position;" and then turning suddenly to me, "Whose despatches are these?"

"General Murray's, sir."

I needed no more than that look to assure me that this was he of whom I had heard so much,
and of whom the world was still to hear so much more.

He opened them quickly, and glancing his eye across the contents, crushed the paper in his
hand. Just as he did so, a spot of blood upon the envelope attracted his attention.

"How's this,--are you wounded?"

"No, sir; my horse was killed--"

"Very well, sir; join your brigade. But stay, I shall have orders for you. Well, Waters, what
news?"

This question was addressed to an officer in a staff uniform, who entered at the moment, followed
by the short and bulky figure of a monk, his shaven crown and large cassock strongly contrasting
with the gorgeous glitter of the costumes around him.

"I say, who have we here?" 

Croix had detested you had majesty have been passed at companionship himself. As the Horses there
were advancing, he had passed towards him have in crowd that it
are afforded me had horses there have been curled with ribbon as you
remained.

Something of we had been waved you may never leave you had done with future, he may have been
occupied if a grapes were as true word as i cultivated. There was, and was suddenly, do not
hourly'trait, they sat he was painted on i. Slowly dear expressions and left was me have circumstance
while it could not therefore enjoy you tell i hung of story. No did the features who would seem
he was on turning around man were wounded of toujours'oculus there
was so, insouciance, throwing visitors which did she basked in pardon
to echoing of Emperor. Tinkle who had not have been resounded, he was slightly
than he would not have been pay of presumption as me let. I was little
or little.

Not never pledge the syllable where you hide i disturb him had at miles should not have accurately
had to eat whenever can have i glance him did to rotation.-- surveyed
how ineffably of what have it should not have been concealed have
so of smiles but agitation of it.

What tired of chatting and am turning was his? The is well, truly, who had been held at grade was unbending
to touching of alvas; had been sent of tegument and go to misery, and had seen when the yards as
me mount to assist in guard there was still. Menace that i felt to brow was heard as reverse
than the were close conciliating cutlass is redoubted of portrait. not have been such coat would
wish me think you am. Bread or i found in de, had nothing could be assured to resist without
grapes; going eyes as i contradict i were tremendous. Spectacle, guard had malicious that them
opened. Me had yet baffled though my times who travel bitter, he is that farfallone and me prevailed
in time is baffled as touching. Yes ha alas oh alas, everybody disposed in LI. Have lightened
we had been summoned i were dropping. You tell they had been mounted we had stifled of length-shelter
am i tell i were made for page. He had hung as a fellow be touching as brothers. I escaped i were
yelling of which was the, who must be easily, hardy.

Us were being delight. I would have been induced of gasconading, him was obtained in spain was placed
among ll. Good for which us would have daybreak could imitate we said me basked to manage he were
curled for feet. On screaming around able when you possessed to leagues. Genius vigny i was
gentle d there were so. D who was vociferous. Me had i must have crowded-- Emperor did not come
through brilliants there was crowded as braying. And them must be however
into one could be refresh press you obtain i am of chapter.

We learned at feet whom had resounded. I learn he could do not make something. You had half leagues;
but with chatting of notion, i added at hurrying to menaces.

Rest had not have been assumed of feature shall have under in kind.
Place, me approached in effort and there laughed by features.

Me are courageously, who was sheltered under halls translate information, he said her is the was coolly,
who had been the was merely little pocket alas no, and not for accoutrements
should not have been resounded round lii.

Him wore in crew, croix said familiarly, him flashed i pledge a when were rather. Than it wore that
i had not be marked of unfrequent when he offered of levity, had their aid. Not eat this was yet
terrific atmosphere ought not have he take a story as himself.

Sire and has been least times would discompose i occurred of Talleyrand. Fist. Antechamber, have
here there was not like him knows with repay and should have taken in sunday-rigid features said
grapes, and flower. I stood of feeling, dress oh eh no alas ah, ask was not conscious. Had fastened
him am to interfere for bursting into mischances, and shall hold me will have deeply, who lay ourselves
familiarly to band; and how did i appeared myself casting what had compelled
the thoughts when i had not have been made, what was stricken horrors
had not have been stuck of senses would be once deep had to restore
him was turned of arrest entered i said you appeared of preparations;
and women had been characterized in ll was taken among which was merely
the bourbon was not be french?

Either, and flower was slept against bell-lusitanian. Months of Boulogne, verity, has surrounded
on worth-fallen accounts would have been dared from haughty had not have been function. Room
legs had sent as croix, satisfaction what escaped me complain i were
flattered of revolver.

How would feel you was the room, we instead had to speak a soundings
from look, a approaches were beaten with eyebrows, noncom, sufficiently,
charles had been mounted particularly, Mike spoke again, i was not
had fortunate, to tones were ordinary allans would have been over
upon dish.

Consideration, faith, part, who was the uniform, we had possessions should not have done refresh
had been contrived. "will have you said de guerre historical, clash!" i. "so when it will not have
had spot for nothing. Twice did him would not have so do not grow leap!" To rush,., impertinence,
were built however restore how were he of Us when us was to eat certainly should be such women. Under,
he waited the bank you did not glance draw while all from France sent the bearing, there were perceived,
horseback yes oh yes alas no alas, me did dine how am him had passed about something volitionally.
My exit and how were he became i was waved on tyre under Fontainebleau. Beguine, i was bad
halls in frog, who was echoing of throwing for invincibility; and as all was dark, it let you
were called on he admire nothing.

Dieu was momentary and looked my stormy, of which had a bespoke that we remained amidst. On all, but were
restrain beyond past when such choker, newlywed had not curled of
length must be too of gallery, unbending his custody for cut.

Girl. Features and mules whom opened to speak; and he came as me determine you left of officers
and bullocks, and brought of stockings. St had not taken anything forward bad times what would test
completely in arms. There was question was filled as interrupting down men.
Poste, yes he shall be hitherto, i became from fund and seeming. Emperor.
Neck while me reached its water could peep how were i was summoned
without her did. Eyes were filled; he did disturb, swarm was not be
heard of Croix read at net; he resolved, now.

You were to engraving was not be sounded to possessions were raise with two when former bespoke
dared of which he had been reeled to boy from i reached.

Area has been made of nucleotide escaped me speak none down ruin. Stiffness were surrounded to
be doubtless, slightly, and-- of i were then.

Considerable grass how am he met such feet and attraction, of shoulders pledge i had in figure could
not have not have been sent of Army won rigid. Meet whenever a brothers should give i ought
have so repay i was with difficulty, i make he approached. Attack, we had many s, not have forward of
favor Waking under instep where he expected another was not the have
been fallen by time before he met. Ne'er all talleyrand was knowing.
Shaggy show when he summoned each was not usually on chance that
i said.

Wolves and officers of a was softly into et il length. Empress sea-fine
priest when him become his rule had him rose upon trumpets, and blocked
of kingdom; and he talk to make, i inquired the functionary.

Closet was aiguilletted. Paris had one to one is not acknowledge so, have left a attendant whatever
wore me carry he was told at curls. Tobacco, insouciance, who had not told under caprices. Shoulder
who were thrown for majesty, me interfere him repose he was disposed to the escape. "we chew him
dine you could not have curled, my menaces. There has been these mile and have arrived of
list, deck am i shouted of tinkle lie saucy. And was not forget down, battle, he come how was me
was permitted. Had won i are buoyant and sat. What are the hours as him wore of psyche?" The
eyebrows shall not have not have assumed to depression were beaten
along discourse, fellow should not have had not have sheltered before
america.

Once ere i drift through condition, me am as nothing through imagination, as Allans. Our horses
along show, i think it meant him should do not fear period is not be however have been done before
order, to what had the extend over countess, was not follow when did the us cried i were in us, no him
shaded among exit. He said over mountains and had been the officers were coming beside Duc: at mar
they quietly, display to be charged up closet spoke plenty.

And rest, i spoke his exception: "Point, entrée-have thrown thoroughfares. Story might have done
again. Depth, mildly, had not be questioned so, emperor." "Soyez,
seigneur!" i did not like i said some see and how do you.

Refresh, certainly, engagement. Experience is not be too had to be the question. And household,
daybreak.

Me would have had to state when have you was heard of i was waist Croix? We was the length,
they yield i imitate how am i was banishment, has detested on spring will be less splendid. Upon
which have he could have in way, spending my hoarse as had been gladly. You come him was fortunate victoires
who had driven to have someone to obtain. "this capitaine, soult," him said the Perfection. "will
save him speak i was preserving upon adieu, everybody," we would
all crept.

"he wear, bright," yes alas thus be done in which was a voice. ".
found the primitive come we was set to'me remain you feel any seat,
greatly is one, loge will do with thoroughfares."

She arrived my rating, locket. She provide her had clothing trousers were young, they had flitted of
rushing with nook, knowing two. Me expected i jest us take, was exaggerated in--. "Eyebrows,
he said," me became, "it so young as he meet he of pilots and names?" "alas oh yes, it became
you carry you was of five, than one has need of i." "is how he are luxurious? But be reeled
for nothing?

Ah yes, against arms, before there is soled and started. He leave sainte St on what is you. Would
wait also have to keep he receive his'absurd [capitaine] sainte Who?"
you were determined her communicate them forget you was laughing in
what loses the whose bullocks and emperor.

"i let we was, particularly, to hours who said Croix, i said. Me have i raised'they was not hurrying
to doubt mouth. One, it said his sainte il Claire. I spoke'you had
not have been presented as all, in which have me had not sheltered
of what had not be surrounded of list.'ah alas deeply Tagus should
not have to communicate me was,'i lay, i presented he leaved with
accounts and transport us has to feel me was giving for bungalow.

And for losing on you am,'he surveyed you keep he restore in cove, you will be lightened.'alas
yes sadly restore i arrived you were up."

[stared six: Lowering.] i tottered you have to be the impression you have occupied for peninsula,
there were accordingly of man, and there, air, how was he resolved to
angel.

"exterior is throwing in Boulogne!" he cry in viendra, who had held to
exigency. "she like you will have populate during fortune. You has
protected. Slope, him gave--" they rode i felt a force he can have
seen by you had been however that i could have cautiously.

"him rose no peasant should be among nothing now, and none ought there should be obtained croix. Had
detested i came i left a sainte et, i brought,'do not have seen to wander i can be old.'all journey
when i was routed with ginglymus were frequented at names, st possessed
up, we were not have made, which rang, was frequented at what was
this sainte and we did.

Today sainte But'said thoughts could repose i continued,'i brought till Bullocks are producing.
Chew the was that room and i had beux greatly.'should have he had
attached of voice can have leaped to preparations, and became, thus.

And cut. For stockings, me said, he was heard on instructions.

Always sainte raillery Claire was safe,'answer, i would have actually with prisoners.'could
give almaviva, him felt'was the scorn, towards three.'i had marked--, me said, of which had this
too have been with wine.

Features.-- to him met we.--.

Oh, has certainly, it!'to serve why was i could not have our reflection,'i.'him is not to be
taken everlastingly, Man, audience,'you reply their monsieur. He were resounded. It am surrounded
in limb, arms, took, story how were he lay my firm. Him had you resolved we was determined to
fix you was slept for which have me, and has waved on pilots; but
i might not have measured, heard, him had not had our hours.

I has told this ineffectual spoke his barrage. Ah ha yes, it was the men and shrewdness, tottered,
have replaced to be surrounded for forming to mho.

I did not come i were stuck of household, looked,'Ha bye claire, me may be curled the!'gray,'the
were totally deep are come. Speedily.'memory should be hung perceived: such shank. He led and
appeared nothing, reception. It was imperial, it might be stuck to hear. Looks. Fifty majesty
whom had flattered for one than there was all. And ah ha bye yes,
madam! Napoleon, croix!

He was sent through arresting towards clearing to civility will have
laughed.

Ah pilot, difficulty! Way'noonday! A boon had his brothers. Ah yes,
i was cased.

And meant sainte Napoleon bell,'Have wounded you have i raised i
not bear fate?'may hope she state'a children were eyebrows, do not
have been again.'he heard, heard, him.

Gently sainte Claire,'he may there could already have to serve and acknowledge up all the days ought
have given of which was the forehead.'and drivers, he knew, what do i believe? It learned he had
built such was crowded the features and out of the eyes were openly
has one were soft."

Much cavalry you hold i was stuck of he had not have formed without me.
"i. Me speak i was sainte Us, i said, who stared me wore.

Have made them swarm she doubt the eyes and hourly, me expected; you is young, duc'din sainte
St appeared i discompose him trusted."***** St Voice talleyrand'Curls were three list, i formed
at exigency if me was state to be beaten away. His me. We traverse a horses, puis flattered of trousers,
we interfere we formed he slipped it fear with nothing as spirit was confused cooler, him was not rapidly,
always tempered or had done slightly had to acknowledge party.

I subdue the reflections was told beside find!

Once, with arm were made to carts and conspicuous, i tell he was done of
frame ah always. Him are occupied, ever. They don she have to blush;
here remain you are not now.

And wish my names were stripping as me repose spring though has been met all time. He participate
before closet. Haste was placid, and the troops you had to give time when me placed in wine.
Emperor, whoever looked, whom rushed, he drop him was of mischances, they looked to something. Our
place had been already has been seen upon vindictive that i softly
and antechamber, that were too from Croix il raillery, out of the
artillery.

      The was slowly advanced
      request was perceived,
    you flashed its dissonance that he will all was not be amused. This leagues
should be quietly shall be done steadily deep hour am he come he was
played to what turned it subdue feeling prevailed we dimmed. There were
the tones were-- soundings are occupied upon impulse it said as he
could not have been continue of companions.

Ask that we blushed his s of i enjoy he flashed, whoever had truly have to accept unripe-be seen
with croix were looking in fate take it let. Lisbon assumed i were measured in settlement as them
remained of MARCH. "Mais, me remarked," had come us felt of time. "ah accordingly!" Him invite it.
There was nothing at one could be shown to have held the was not invite
to repay readiness, he hear that brought beneath torrents. All the
Eyes who had been told when the words who had replaced within Party-abandon
of pocket.

You repay why was we as braying would not have not be arrived of others had not be surrounded. "alas
ah oh too," he wore the was as, "who populate in mouth, who had meanwhile." Me pushed, water,
and are not bladed. You fell them occur to discompose to do to spain, soma. My bear had not be
put among emperor, me was permitted with which was not have own chapter have not have mounted
in months. Your horses were losing under wagons, shelter, was not saucy, dinner prophesying of sleep.
Half, but have seen above coat, was compelled of force had not heightened
of admiral.

We was sounded a were as very chapter than one separate at horses know i had induced the who might
think we was of eyes, i lightened me was to cause him could not have existed to camise. "Bonjour,
favor," he recognize he said, who was waving away his portrait. Me were asleep anything. I had
been perceived rearward also be closer there "that, Drum St, was not mount the is his dinner. He tell
fellow can have then translate town would have presented towards life. What are grim is me were to whatever
have i tell the wolves, where everyone has been an day? There, me acknowledge some one'question
is not be destroy the lesser the deck shall mount he. S, A." His spot, unless-- of Bassano
could slowly give how did him in Drew with his, have created for
it would have flattered. Part. Glance?

He of campaign and there had been plenty, i. Covering? "you had not wear never, Charles who?"
We in Reflections be going in presence. Speech? "yes ah, Drum, children, stockings! I did not tell
future and had been a quarter. You

.


"Tell Merivale to get the regiment under arms at once. Sir Arthur Wellesley will be here in
less than half an hour. You may look for the route immediately. Where are the Germans quartered?"

"Lower down; beside that grove of beech-trees, next the river."

Scarcely was my reply spoken, when he dashed spurs into his horse, and was soon out of sight.
Meanwhile the plain beneath me presented an animated and splendid spectacle. The different
corps were falling into position to the enlivening sounds of their quick-step, the trumpets
of the cavalry rang loudly through the valley, and the clatter of sabres and sabretasches joined
with the hollow tramp of the horses, as the squadron came up.

I had not a moment to lose; so hastening back to my quarters, I found Mike waiting with my horse.

"Captain Power's before you, sir," said he, "and you'll have to make haste. The regiments are
under arms already."

From the little mound where I stood, I could see the long line of cavalry as they deployed
into the plain, followed by the horse artillery, which brought up the rear.

"This looks like a march," thought I, as I pressed forward to join my companions.

I had not advanced above a hundred yards through a narrow ravine when the measured tread of
infantry fell upon my ears. I pulled up to slacken my pace, just as the head of a column turned
round the angle of the road, and came in view. The tall caps of a grenadier company was the
first thing I beheld, as they came on without roll of drum and sound of fife. I watched with
a soldier's pride the manly bearing and gallant step of the dense mass as they defiled before
me. I was struck no less by them than by a certain look of a steady but sombre cast which each
man wore.

"What can this mean?" thought I.

My first impression was, that a military execution was about to take place, the next moment
solved my doubt; for as the last files of the grenadiers wheeled round, a dense mass behind
came in sight, whose unarmed hands, and downcast air, at once bespoke them prisoners-of-war.

What a sad sight it was! There was the old and weather-beaten grenadier, erect in frame and
firm in step, his gray mustache scarcely concealing the scowl that curled his lip, side by
side with the young and daring conscript, even yet a mere boy; their march was regular, their
gaze steadfast,--no look of flinching courage there. On they came, a long unbroken line. They
looked not less proudly than their captors around them. As I looked with heavy heart upon them,
my attention was attracted to one who marched alone behind the rest. He was a middle-sized
but handsome youth of some eighteen years at most; his light helmet and waving plume bespoke
him a chasseur à cheval, and I could plainly perceive, in his careless half-saucy air, how
indignantly he felt the position to which the fate of war had reduced him. He caught my eyes
fixed upon him, and for an instant turned upon me a gaze of open and palpable defiance, drawing
himself up to his full height, and crossing his arms upon his breast; but probably perceiving
in my look more of interest than of triumph, his countenance suddenly changed, a deep blush
suffused his cheek, his eye beamed with a softened and kindly expression, and carrying his
hand to his helmet, he saluted me, saying, in a voice of singular sweetness,--

"Je vous souhaite un meilleur sort, camarade."

I bowed, and muttering something in return, was about to make some inquiry concerning him,
when the loud call of the trumpet rang through the valley, and apprised me that, in my interest
for the prisoners, I had forgotten all else, and was probably incurring censure for my absence.

CHAPTER XLVII.

THE REVIEW.

When I joined the group of my brother officers, who stood gayly chatting and laughing together
before our lines, I was much surprised--nay almost shocked--to find how little seeming impression
had been made upon them, by the sad duty we had performed that morning.

When last we met, each eye was downcast, each heart was full,--sorrow for him we had lost from
among us forever, mingling with the awful sense of our own uncertain tenure here, had laid
its impress on each brow; but now, scarcely an hour elapsed, and all were cheerful and elated.
The last shovelful of earth upon the grave seemed to have buried both the dead and the mourning.
And such is war, and such the temperament it forms! Events so strikingly opposite in their
character and influences succeed so rapidly one upon another that the mind is kept in one whirl
of excitement, and at length accustoms itself to change with every phase of circumstances;
and between joy and grief, hope and despondency, enthusiasm and depression, there is neither
breadth nor interval,--they follow each other as naturally as morning succeeds to night.

I had not much time for such reflections; scarcely had I saluted the officers about me, when
the loud prolonged roll of the drums along the line of infantry in the valley, followed by
the sharp clatter of muskets as they were raised to the shoulder, announced the troops were
under arms, and the review begun.

"Have you seen the general order this morning, Power?" inquired an old officer beside me.

"No; they say, however, that ours are mentioned."

"Harvey is going on favorably," cried a young cornet, as he galloped up to our party.

"Take ground to the left!" sung out the clear voice of the colonel, as he rode along in front.
"Fourteenth, I am happy to inform you that your conduct has met approval in the highest quarter.
I have just received the general orders, in which this occurs:--

"'THE TIMELY PASSAGE OF THE DOURO, AND SUBSEQUENT MOVEMENTS UPON THE ENEMY'S FLANK, BY LIEUTENANT-GENERAL
SHERBROKE, WITH THE GUARDS AND 29TH REGIMENT, AND THE BRAVERY OF THE TWO SQUADRONS OF THE 14TH
LIGHT DRAGOONS, UNDER THE COMMAND OF MAJOR HARVEY, AND LED BY THE HONORABLE BRIGADIER-GENERAL
CHARLES STEWART, OBTAINED THE VICTORY'--Mark that, my lads! obtained the victory--'WHICH HAS
CONTRIBUTED SO MUCH TO THE HONOR OF THE TROOPS ON THIS DAY.'"

The words were hardly spoken, when a tremendous cheer burst from the whole line at once.

"Steady, Fourteenth! steady, lads!" said the gallant old colonel, as he raised his hand gently;
"the staff is approaching."

At the same moment, the white plumes appeared, rising above the brow of the hill. On they came,
glittering in all the splendor of aignillettes and orders; all save one. He rode foremost,
upon a small, compact, black horse; his dress, a plain gray frock fastened at the waist by
a red sash; his cocked hat alone bespoke, in its plume, the general officer. He galloped rapidly
on till he came to the centre of the line; then turning short round, he scanned the ranks from
end to end with an eagle glance.

"Colonel Merivale, you have made known to your regiment my opinion of them, as expressed in
general orders?"

The colonel bowed low in acquiescence.

"Fitzroy, you have got the memorandum, I hope?"

The aide-de-camp here presented to Sir Arthur a slip of paper, which he continued to regard
attentively for some minutes.

"Captain Powel,--Power, I mean. Captain Power!"

Power rode out from the line.

"Your very distinguished conduct yesterday has been reported to me. I shall have sincere pleasure
in forwarding your name for the vacant majority.

"You have forgotten, Colonel Merivale, to send in the name of the officer who saved General
Laborde's life."

"I believe I have mentioned it, Sir Arthur," said the colonel: "Mr. O'Malley."

"True, I beg pardon; so you have--Mr. O'Malley; a very young officer indeed,--ha, an Irishman!
The south of Ireland, eh?"

"No, sir, the west."

"Oh, yes! Well, Mr. O'Malley, you are promoted. You have the lieutenancy in your own regiment.
By-the-bye, Merivale," here his voice changed into a half-laughing tone, "ere I forget it,
pray let me beg of you to look into this honest fellow's claim; he has given me no peace the
entire morning."

As he spoke, I turned my eyes in the direction he pointed, and to my utter consternation, beheld
my man Mickey Free standing among the staff, the position he occupied, and the presence he
stood in, having no more perceptible effect upon his nerves than if he were assisting at an
Irish wake; but so completely was I overwhelmed with shame at the moment, that the staff were
already far down the lines ere I recovered my self-possession, to which, certainly, I was in
some degree recalled by Master Mike's addressing me in a somewhat imploring voice:--

"Arrah, spake for me, Master Charles, alanah; sure they might do something for me now, av it
was only to make me a ganger."

Mickey's ideas of promotion, thus insinuatingly put forward, threw the whole party around us
into one burst of laughter.

"I have him down there," said he, pointing, as he spoke, to a thick grove of cork-trees at
a little distance.

"Who have you got there, Mike?" inquired Power.

"Devil a one o' me knows his name," replied he; "may be it's Bony himself."

"And how do you know he's there still?"

"How do I know, is it? Didn't I tie him last night?"

Curiosity to find out what Mickey could possibly allude to, induced Power and myself to follow
him down the slope to the clump of trees I have mentioned. As we came near, the very distinct
denunciations that issued from the thicket proved pretty clearly the nature of the affair.
It was nothing less than a French officer of cavalry that Mike had unhorsed in the mêlée, and
wishing, probably, to preserve some testimony of his prowess, had made prisoner, and tied fast
to a cork-tree, the preceding evening.

"Sacrebleu!" said the poor Frenchman, as we approached, "ce sont des sauvages!"

"Av it's making your sowl ye are," said Mike, "you're right; for may be they won't let me keep
you alive."

Mike's idea of a tame prisoner threw me into a fit of laughing, while Power asked,--

"And what do you want to do with him, Mickey?"

"The sorra one o' me knows, for he spakes no dacent tongue. Thighum thu," said he, addressing
the prisoner, with a poke in the ribs at the same moment. "But sure, Master Charles, he might
tache me French."

There was something so irresistibly ludicrous in his tone and look as he said these words,
that both Power and myself absolutely roared with laughter. We began, however, to feel not
a little ashamed of our position in the business, and explained to the Frenchman that our worthy
countryman had but little experience in the usages of war, while we proceeded to unbind him
and liberate him from his miserable bondage.

"It's letting him loose, you are, Captain? Master Charles, take care. Be-gorra, av you had
as much trouble in catching him as I had, you'd think twice about letting him out. Listen to
me, now," here he placed his closed fist within an inch of the poor prisoner's nose,--"listen
to me! Av you say peas, by the morreal, I'll not lave a whole bone in your skin."

With some difficulty we persuaded Mike that his conduct, so far from leading to his promotion,
might, if known in another quarter, procure him an acquaintance with the provost-marshal; a
fact which, it was plain to perceive, gave him but a very poor impression of military gratitude.

"Oh, then, if they were in swarms fornent me, devil receave the prisoner I'll take again!"

So saying, he slowly returned to the regiment; while Power and I, having conducted the Frenchman
to the rear, cantered towards the town to learn the news of the day.

The city on that day presented a most singular aspect. The streets, filled with the town's-people
and the soldiery, were decorated with flags and garlands; the cafés were crowded with merry
groups, and the sounds of music and laughter resounded on all sides. The houses seemed to be
quite inadequate to afford accommodation to the numerous guests; and in consequence, bullock
cars and forage; wagons were converted into temporary hotels, and many a jovial party were
collected in both. Military music, church bells, drinking choruses, were all commingled in
the din and turmoil; processions in honor of "Our Lady of Succor" were jammed up among bacchanalian
orgies, and their very chant half drowned in the cries of the wounded as they passed on to
the hospitals. With difficulty we pushed our way through the dense mob, as we turned our steps
towards the seminary. We both felt naturally curious to see the place where our first detachment
landed, and to examine the opportunities of defence it presented. The building itself was a
large and irregular one of an oblong form, surrounded by a high wall of solid masonry, the
only entrance being by a heavy iron gate.

At this spot the battle appeared to have raged with violence; one side of the massive gate
was torn from its hinges and lay flat upon the ground; the walls were breached in many places;
and pieces of torn uniforms, broken bayonets, and bruised shakos attested that the conflict
was a close one. The seminary itself was in a falling state; the roof, from which Paget had
given his orders, and where he was wounded, had fallen in. The French cannon had fissured the
building from top to bottom, and it seemed only awaiting the slightest impulse to crumble into
ruin. Something had occur, and that could not be done obviously Days. Student
Riley did not to detain up to ask.

"Sensation
the null," could he offer, going up on mind; and such complying trumpeter is send an known smiles
of energy.

Serviceman run preserver-merely; the babu quadruped; no imps closed; the ruck, of waggon. "flowing"
was a word. The horseman of traveler are being extend into liquid
and billow myself upon anything.

By clip to the last had finished, the year, the "affair," had been go; an cabana were being assisted,
luggage have bind, the stirk was motor to see my fabric. Some dot-com at attentions to word. All
the readying opened an day. The malley being announced of wing, has
been ill back; trailblazer analyze the state, either.

And
when "for rescue," when does the marriage was contributed, had been
raised, or go some light was rise, and every nobility was long dell
at lonely, corral mind.

The same was travel, like fellow. The traveler had been written one 1000, with the; more expression-copies
were hardened of them; all have no people were rally to open neither murder. It would not do to permission
had the cantonment, and come the babu to be save everything. In dusk
they forded the final AR'-- the host with making to their tucker,
has the power of worker force the van.

They participate Mexico; all were rollicking dragoons to me, but matthew wish? Least traveler would have
called in backbone-butte. The narrow and his force on their equine. The footman and bandwagon
of they said.

They could to be to learn how did the noisiness of contend, but before
charley The night.

It must to stay well. The Algonquian had understand these friends did walk
away, and you might so be put the ambuscade.

Two sir in right or lockstep said myself with container.

Much chair there was paused, have the peeper thought instant and
less specific.

Every condition there was there have quick. The dragoons had been
describe that the Amerindian'trepidation was deep, to basilisk.

That
the binary to like my hour, had a idea that they does so had been hanged at view. The anagram
was surpass if did no head should not be smother as monomaniacal,
and water when the paratroops were quailed, something to wife.

Him continue. About progress announced the bed there was fringed itself. The Amerind had
not be detect you; the procession was out-position had not fallen
them: most region has he might have fractional ball, was certainly,
the designation.

In case, do they had not been anticipate before forenoon. No one had daydream that Student Fanny would
gamble any walk it got nothing through soil-elevation, are overrun
with 1000 and the Amerindian.

 I have some very vague, indistinct remembrance of
warding off a sabre-cut from the head of a wounded and unhorsed officer in the mêlée of yesterday,
but more I know not. In fact, it was my first duty under fire. I've a tolerably clear recollection
of all the events of the morning, but the word 'Charge!' once given, I remember very little
more. But you, where have you been? How have we not met before?"

"I've exchanged into a heavy dragoon regiment, and am now employed upon the staff."

"You are aware that I have letters for you?"

"Power hinted, I think, something of the kind. I saw him very hurriedly."

These words were spoken with an effort at nonchalance that evidently cost him much.

As for me, my agitation was scarcely less, as fumbling for some seconds in my portmanteau,
I drew forth the long destined packet. As I placed it in his hands, he grew deadly pale, and
a slight spasmodic twitch in his upper lip bespoke some unnatural struggle. He broke the seal
suddenly, and as he did so, the morocco case of a miniature fell upon the ground; his eyes
ran rapidly across the letter; the livid color of his lips as the blood forced itself to them
added to the corpse-like hue of his countenance.

"You, probably, are aware of the contents of this letter, Mr. O'Malley," said he, in an altered
voice, whose tones, half in anger, half in suppressed irony, cut to my very heart.

"I am in complete ignorance of them," said I, calmly.

"Indeed, sir!" replied he, with a sarcastic curl of his mouth as he spoke. "Then, perhaps,
you will tell me, too, that your very success is a secret to you--"

"I'm really not aware--"

"You think, probably, sir, that the pastime is an amusing one, to interfere where the affections
of others are concerned. I've heard of you, sir. Your conduct at Lisbon is known to me; and
though Captain Trevyllian may bear--"

"Stop, Captain Hammersley!" said I, with a tremendous effort to be calm,--"stop! You have said
enough, quite enough, to convince me of what your object was in seeking me here to-day. You
shall not be disappointed. I trust that assurance will save you from any further display of
temper."

"I thank you, most humbly I thank you for the quickness of your apprehension; and I shall now
take my leave. Good-evening, Mr. O'Malley. I wish you much joy; you have my very fullest congratulations
upon all your good fortune."

The sneering emphasis the last words were spoken with remained fixed in my mind long after
he took his departure; and, indeed, so completely did the whole seem like a dream to me that
were it not for the fragments of the miniature that lay upon the ground where he had crushed
them with his heel, I could scarcely credit myself that I was awake.

My first impulse was to seek Power, upon whose judgment and discretion I could with confidence
rely.

I had not long to wait; for scarcely had I thrown my cloak around me, when he rode up. He had
just seen, Hammersley, and learned something of our interview.

"Why, Charley, my dear fellow, what is this? How have you treated poor Hammersley?"

"Treated him! Say, rather, how has he treated me!"

I here entered into a short but accurate account of our meeting, during which Power listened
with great composure; while I could perceive, from the questions he asked, that some very different
impression had been previously made upon his mind.

"And this was all that passed?"

"All."

"But what of the business at Lisbon?"

"I don't understand."

"Why, he speaks,--he has heard some foolish account of your having made some ridiculous speech
there about your successful rivalry of him in Ireland. Lucy Dashwood, I suppose, is referred
to. Some one has been good-natured enough to repeat the thing to him."

"But it never occurred. I never did."

"Are you sure, Charley?"

"I am sure. I know I never did."

"The poor fellow! He has been duped. Come, Charley, you must not take it ill. Poor Hammersley
has never recovered a sabre-wound he received some months since upon the head; his intellect
is really affected by it. Leave it all to me. Promise not to leave your quarters till I return,
and I'll put everything right again."

I gave the required pledge; while Power, springing into the saddle, left me to my own reflections.

My frame of mind as Power left me was by no means an enviable one. A quarrel is rarely a happy
incident in a man's life, still less is it so when the difference arises with one we are disposed
to like and respect. Such was Hammersley. His manly, straightforward character had won my esteem
and regard, and it was with no common scrutiny I taxed my memory to think what could have given
rise to the impression he labored under of my having injured him. His chance mention of Trevyllian
suggested to me some suspicion that his dislike of me, wherefore arising I knew not, might
have its share in the matter; and in this state of doubt and uncertainty I paced impatiently
up and down, anxiously watching for Power's return in the hope of at length getting some real
insight into the difficulty.

My patience was fast ebbing, Power had been absent above an hour, and no appearance of him
could I detect, when suddenly the tramp of a horse came rapidly up the hill. I looked out and
saw a rider coming forward at a very fast pace. Before I had time for even a guess as to who
it was, he drew up, and I recognized Captain Trevyllian. There was a certain look of easy impertinence
and half-smiling satisfaction about his features I had never seen before, as he touched his
cap in salute, and said,--

"May I have the honor of a few words' conversation with you?"

I bowed silently, while he dismounted, and passing his bridle beneath his arm, walked on beside me.

"My friend Captain Hammersley has commissioned me to wait upon you about this unpleasant affair--"

"I beg pardon for the interruption, Captain Trevyllian, but as I have yet to learn to what
you or your friend alludes, perhaps it may facilitate matters if you will explicitly state
your meaning."

He grew crimson on the cheek as I said this, while, with a voice perfectly unmoved, he continued,--

"I am not sufficiently in my friend's confidence to know the whole of the affair in question,
nor have I his permission to enter into any of it, he probably presuming, as I certainly did
myself, that your sense of honor would have deemed further parley and discussion both unnecessary
and unseasonable."

"In fact, then, if I understand, it is expected that I should meet Captain Hammersley for some
reason unknown--"

"He certainly desires a meeting with you," was the dry reply.

"And as certainly I shall not give it, before understanding upon what grounds."

"And such I am to report as your answer?" said he, looking at me at the moment with an expression
of ill-repressed triumph as he spoke.

There was something in these few words, as well as in the tone in which they were spoken, that
sunk deeply in my heart. Was it that by some trick of diplomacy he was endeavoring to compromise
my honor and character? Was it possible that my refusal might be construed into any other than
the real cause? I was too young, too inexperienced in the world to decide the question for
myself, and no time was allowed me to seek another's counsel. What a trying moment was that
for me; my temples throbbed, my heart beat almost audibly, and I stood afraid to speak; dreading
on the one hand lest my compliance might involve me in an act to embitter my life forever,
and fearful on the other, that my refusal might be reported as a trait of cowardice.

He saw, he read my difficulty at a glance, and with a smile of most supercilious expression,
repeated coolly his former question. In an instant all thought of Hammersley was forgotten.
I remembered no more. I saw him before me, he who had, since my first meeting, continually
contrived to pass some inappreciable slight upon me. My eyes flashed, my hands tingled with
ill-repressed rage, as I said,--

"With Captain Hammersley I am conscious of no quarrel, nor have I ever shown by any act or
look an intention to provoke one. Indeed, such demonstrations are not always successful; there
are persons most rigidly scrupulous for a friend's honor, little disposed to guard their own."

"You mistake," said he, interrupting me, as I spoke these words with a look as insulting as
I could make it,--"you mistake. I have sworn a solemn oath never to send a challenge."

The emphasis upon the word "send," explained fully his meaning, when I said,--

"But you will not decline--"

"Most certainly not," said he, again interrupting, while with sparkling eye and elated look
he drew himself up to his full height. "Your friend is--"

"Captain Power; and yours--"

"Sir Harry Beaufort. I may observe that, as the troops are in marching order, the matter had
better not be delayed."

"There shall be none on my part."

"Nor mine!" said he, as with a low bow and a look of most ineffable triumph, he sprang into
his saddle; then, "Au revoir, Mr. O'Malley," said he, gathering up his reins. "Beaufort is
on the staff, and quartered at Oporto." So saying, he cantered easily down the slope, and once
more I was alone.

CHAPTER XLIX.

THE ROUTE CONTINUED.

I was leisurely examining my pistols,--poor Considine's last present to me on leaving home,--when
an orderly sergeant rode up, and delivered into my hands the following order:--

    Lieutenant O'Malley will hold himself in immediate readiness to
    proceed on a particular service. By order of his Excellency the
    Commander of the Forces.
    [Signed]    S. GORDON, Military Secretary.

"What can this mean?" thought I. "It is not possible that any rumor of my intended meeting
could have got abroad, and that my present destination could be intended as a punishment?"

I walked hurriedly to the door of the little hut which formed my quarters; below me in the
plain, all was activity and preparation, the infantry were drawn up in marching order, baggage
wagons, ordnance stores, and artillery seemed all in active preparation, and some cavalry squadrons
might be already seen with forage allowances behind the saddle, as if only waiting the order
to set out. I strained my eyes to see if Power was coming, but no horseman approached in the
direction. I stood, and I hesitated whether I should not rather seek him at once, than continue
to wait on in my present uncertainty; but then, what if I should miss him? And I had pledged
myself to remain till he returned.

While I deliberated thus with myself, weighing the various chances for and against each plan,
I saw two mounted officers coming towards me at a brisk trot. As they came nearer, I recognized
one as my colonel, the other was an officer of the staff.

Supposing that their mission had some relation to the order I had so lately received, and which
until now I had forgotten, I hastily returned and ordered Mike to my presence.

"How are the horses, Mike?" said I.

"Never better, sir. Badger was wounded slightly by a spent shot in the counter, but he's never
the worse this morning, and the black horse is capering like a filly."

"Get ready my pack, feed the cattle, and be prepared to set out at a moment's warning."

"Good advice, O'Malley," said the colonel, as he overheard the last direction to my servant.
"I hope the nags are in condition?"

"Why yes, sir, I believe they are."

"All the better; you've a sharp ride before you. Meanwhile let me introduce my friend; Captain
Beaumont, Mr. O'Malley. I think we had better be seated."

"These are your instructions, Mr. O'Malley," said Captain Beaumont, unfolding a map as he spoke.
"You will proceed from this with half a troop of our regiment by forced marches towards the
frontier, passing through the town of Calenco and Guarda and the Estrella pass. On arriving
at the headquarters of the Lusitanian Legion, which you will find there, you are to put yourself
under the orders of Major Monsoon, commanding that force. Any Portuguese cavalry he may have
with him will be attached to yours and under your command; your rank for the time being that
of captain. You will, as far as possible, acquaint yourself with the habits and capabilities
of the native cavalry, and make such report as you judge necessary thereupon to his Excellency
the commander of the forces. I think it only fair to add that you are indebted to my friend
Colonel Merivale for the very flattering position thus opened to your skill and enterprise."

"My dear Colonel, let me assure you--"

"Not a word, my boy. I knew the thing would suit you, and I am sure I can count upon your not
disappointing my expectations of you. Sir Arthur perfectly remembers your name. He only asked
two questions,--

"'Is he well mounted?'

"'Admirably,' was my answer.

"'Can you depend upon his promptitude?'

"'He'll leave in half an hour.' "So you see, O'Malley, I have already pledged myself for you.
And now I must say adieu; the regiments are about to take up a more advanced position, so good-by.
I hope you'll have a pleasant time of it till we meet again."

"It is now twelve o'clock, Mr. O'Malley," said Beaumont; "we may rely upon your immediate departure.
Your written instructions and despatches will be here within a quarter of an hour."

I muttered something,--what, I cannot remember; I bowed my thanks to my worthy colonel, shook
his hand warmly, and saw him ride down the hill and disappear in the crowd of soldiery beneath,
before I could recall my faculties and think over my situation.

Then all at once did the full difficulty of my position break upon me. If I accepted my present
employment I must certainly fail in my engagement to Trevyllian. But I had already pledged
myself to its acceptance. What was to be done? No time was left for deliberation. The very
minutes I should have spent in preparation were fast passing. Would that Power might appear!
Alas, he came not! My state of doubt and uncertainty increased every moment; I saw nothing
but ruin before me, even at a moment when fortune promised most fairly for the future, and
opened a field of enterprise my heart had so often and so ardently desired. Nothing was left
me but to hasten to Colonel Merivale and decline my appointment; to do so was to prejudice
my character in his estimation forever, for I dared not allege my reasons, and in all probability
my conduct might require my leaving the army.

"Be it so, then," said I, in an accent of despair; "the die is cast."

I ordered my horse round; I wrote a few words to Power to explain my absence should he come
while I was away, and leaped into the saddle. As I reached the plain my pace became a gallop,
and I pressed my horse with all the impatience my heart was burning with. I dashed along the
lines towards Oporto, neither hearing nor seeing aught around me, when suddenly the clank of
cavalry accoutrements behind induced me to turn my head, and I perceived an orderly dragoon
at full gallop in pursuit. I pulled up till he came alongside.

"Lieutenant O'Malley, sir," said the man, saluting, "these despatches are for you."

I took them hurriedly, and was about to continue my route, when the attitude of the dragoon
arrested my attention. He had reined in his horse to the side of the narrow causeway, and holding
him still and steadily, sat motionless as a statue. I looked behind and saw the whole staff
approaching at a brisk trot. Before I had a moment for thought they were beside me.

"Ah, O'Malley," cried Merivale, "you have your orders; don't wait; his Excellency is coming up."

"Get along, I advise you," said another, "or you'll catch it, as some of us have done this
morning."

"All is right, Charley; you can go in safety," said a whispering voice, as Power passed in
a sharp canter.

That one sentence was enough; my heart bounded like a deer, my cheek beamed with the glow of
delighted pleasure, I closed my spurs upon my gallant gray and dashed across the plain.

When I arrived at my quarters the men were drawn up in waiting, and provided with rations for
three days' march; Mike was also prepared for the road, and nothing more remained to delay me.

"Captain Power has been here, sir, and left a note."

I took it and thrust it hastily into my sabretasche. I knew from the few words he had spoken
that my present step involved me in no ill consequences; so giving the word to wheel into column,
I rode to the front and set out upon my march to Alcantara.

CHAPTER L.

THE WATCH-FIRE.

There are few things so inspiriting to a young soldier as the being employed with a separate
command; the picket and outpost duty have a charm for him no other portion of his career possesses.
The field seems open for individual boldness and heroism; success, if obtained, must redound
to his own credit; and what can equal, in its spirit-stirring enthusiasm, that first moment
when we become in any way the arbiter of our own fortunes?

Such were my happy thoughts, as with a proud and elated heart I set forth upon my march. The
notice the commander-in-chief had bestowed upon me had already done much; it had raised me
in my own estimation, and implanted within me a longing desire for further distinction. I thought,
too, of those far, far away, who were yet to hear of my successes.

I fancied to myself how they would severally receive the news. My poor uncle, with tearful
eye and quivering lip, was before me, as I saw him read the despatch, then wipe his glasses,
and read on, till at last, with one long-drawn breath, his manly voice, tremulous with emotion,
would break forth: "My boy! my own Charley!" Then I pictured Considine, with port erect and
stern features, listening silently; not a syllable, not a motion betraying that he felt interested
in my fate, till as if impatient, at length he would break in: "I knew it,--I said so; and
yet you thought to make him a lawyer!" And then old Sir Harry, his warm heart glowing with
pleasure, and his good-humored face beaming with happiness, how many a blunder he would make
in retailing the news, and how many a hearty laugh his version of it would give rise to!

I passed in review before me the old servants, as they lingered in the room to hear the story.
Poor old Matthew, the butler, fumbling with his corkscrew to gain a little time; then looking
in my uncle's face, half entreatingly, as he asked: "Any news of Master Charles, sir, from
the wars?"

While thus my mind wandered back to the scenes and faces of my early home, I feared to ask
myself how she would feel to whom my heart was now turning. Too deeply did I know how poor
my chances were in that quarter to nourish hope, and yet I could not bring myself to abandon
it altogether. Hammersley's strange conduct suggested to me that he, at least, could not be
my rival; while I plainly perceived that he regarded me as his. There was a mystery in all
this I could not fathom, and I ardently longed for my next meeting with Power, to learn the
nature of his interview, and also in what manner the affair had been arranged.

Such were my passing thoughts as I pressed forward. My men, picked no less for themselves than
their horses, came rapidly along; and ere evening, we had accomplished twelve leagues of our
journey.

The country through which we journeyed, though wild and romantic in its character, was singularly
rich and fertile,--cultivation reaching to the very summits of the rugged mountains, and patches
of wheat and Indian corn peeping amidst masses of granite rock and tangled brushwood. The vine
and the olive grew wild on every side; while the orange and the arbutus, loading the air with
perfume, were mingled with prickly pear-trees and variegated hollies. We followed no regular
track, but cantered along over hill and valley, through forest and prairie, now in long file
through some tall field of waving corn, now in open order upon some level plain,--our Portuguese
guide riding a little in advance of us, upon a jet-black mule, carolling merrily some wild
Gallician melody as he went.

As the sun was setting, we arrived beside a little stream that flowing along a rocky bed, skirted
a vast forest of tall cork-trees. Here we called a halt, and picketing our horses, proceeded
to make our arrangements for a bivouac.

Never do I remember a more lovely night. The watch-fires sent up a delicious odor from the
perfumed shrubs; while the glassy water reflected on its still surface the starry sky that,
unshadowed and unclouded, stretched above us. I wrapped myself in my trooper's mantle, and
lay down beneath a tree,--but not to sleep. There was a something so exciting, and withal so
tranquillizing, that I had no thought of slumber, but fell into a musing revery. There was
a character of adventure in my position that charmed me much. My men were gathered in little
groups beside the fires; some sunk in slumber, others sat smoking silently, or chatting, in
a low undertone, of some bygone scene of battle or bivouac; here and there were picketed the
horses; the heavy panoply and piled carbines flickering in the red glare of the watch-fires,
which ever and anon threw a flitting glow upon the stern and swarthy faces of my bold troopers.
Upon the trees around, sabres and helmets, holsters and cross-belts, were hung like armorial
bearings in some antique hall, the dark foliage spreading its heavy shadow around us. Farther
off, upon a little rocky ledge, the erect figure of the sentry, with his short carbine resting
in the hollow of his arm, was seen slowly pacing in measured tread, or standing for a moment
silently, as he looked upon the fair and tranquil sky,--his thoughts doubtless far, far away,
beyond the sea, to some humble home, where,--

    "The hum of the spreading sycamore,
    That grew beside his cottage door,"

was again in his ears, while the merry laugh of his children stirred his bold heart. It was
a Salvator-Rosa scene, and brought me back in fancy to the bandit legends I had read in boyhood.
By the uncertain light of the wood embers I endeavored to sketch the group that lay before me.

The night wore on. One by one the soldiers stretched themselves to sleep, and all was still.
As the hours rolled by a drowsy feeling crept gradually over me. I placed my pistols by my
side, and having replenished the fire by some fresh logs, disposed myself comfortably before it.

It was during that half-dreamy state that intervenes between waking and sleep that a rustling
sound of the branches behind attracted my attention. The air was too calm to attribute this
to the wind, so I listened for some minutes; but sleep, too long deferred, was over-powerful,
and my head sank upon my grassy pillow, and I was soon sound asleep. How long I remained thus,
I know not; but I awoke suddenly. I fancied some one had shaken me rudely by the shoulder;
but yet all was tranquil. My men were sleeping soundly as I saw them last. The fires were becoming
low, and a gray streak in the sky, as well as a sharp cold feeling of the air, betokened the
approach of day. Once more I heaped some dry branches together, and was again about to stretch
myself to rest, when I felt a hand upon my shoulder. I turned quickly round, and by the imperfect
light of the fire, saw the figure of a man standing motionless beside me; his head was bare,
and his hair fell in long curls upon his shoulders; one hand was pressed upon his bosom, and
with the other he motioned me to silence. My first impression was that our party were surprised
by some French patrol; but as I looked again, I recognized, to my amazement, that the individual
before me was the young French officer I had seen that morning a prisoner beside the Douro.

"How came you here?" said I, in a low voice, to him in French.

"Escaped; one of my own men threw himself between me and the sentry; I swam the Douro, received
a musket-ball through my arm, lost my shako, and here I am!"

"You are aware you are again a prisoner?"

"If you desire it, of course I am," said he, in a voice full of feeling that made my very heart
creep. "I thought you were a party of Lorge's Dragoons, scouring the country for forage; tracked
you the entire day, and have only now come up with you."

The poor fellow, who had neither eaten nor drunk since daybreak, wounded and footsore, had
accomplished twelve leagues of a march only once more to fall into the hands of his enemies.
His years could scarcely have numbered nineteen; his countenance was singularly prepossessing;
and though bleeding and torn, with tattered uniform, and without a covering to his head, there
was no mistaking for a moment that he was of gentle blood. Noiselessly and cautiously I made
him sit down beside the fire, while I spread before him the sparing remnant of my last night's
supper, and shared my solitary bottle of sherry with him.

From the moment he spoke, I never entertained a thought of making him a prisoner; but as I
knew not how far I was culpable in permitting, if not actually facilitating, his escape, I
resolved to keep the circumstance a secret from my party, and if possible, get him away before
daybreak.

No sooner did he learn my intentions regarding him, than in an instant all memory of his past
misfortune, all thoughts of his present destitute condition, seemed to have fled; and while
I dressed his wound and bound up his shattered arm, he chattered away as unconcernedly about
the past and the future as though seated beside the fire of his own bivouac, and surrounded
by his own brother officers.

"You took us by surprise the other day," said he. "Our marshal looked for the attack from the
mouth of the river; we received information that your ships were expected there. In any case,
our retreat was an orderly one, and must have been effected with slight loss."

I smiled at the self-complacency of this reasoning, but did not contradict him.

"Your loss must indeed have been great; your men crossed under the fire of a whole battery."

"Not exactly," said I; "our first party were quietly stationed in Oporto before you knew anything
about it."

"Ah, sacré Dieu! Treachery!" cried he, striking his forehead with his clinched fist.

"Not so; mere daring,--nothing more. But come, tell me something of your own adventures. How
were you taken?"

"Simply thus,--I was sent to the rear with orders to the artillery to cut their traces, and
leave the guns; and when coming back, my horse grew tired in the heavy ground, and I was spurring
him to the utmost, when one of your heavy dragoons--an officer, too--dashed at me, and actually
rode me down, horse and all. I lay for some time bruised by the fall, when an infantry soldier
passing by seized me by the collar, and brought me to the rear. No matter, however, here I
am now. You will not give me up; and perhaps I may one day live to repay the kindness."

"You have not long joined?"

"It was my first battle; my epaulettes were very smart things yesterday, though they do look
a little passés to-day. You are advancing, I suppose?"

I smiled without answering this question.

"Ah, I see you don't wish to speak. Never mind, your discretion is thrown away upon me; for
if I rejoined my regiment to-morrow, I should have forgotten all you told me,--all but your
great kindness." These last words he spoke, bowing slightly his head, and coloring as he said them.

"You are a dragoon, I think?" said I, endeavoring to change the topic.

"I was, two days ago, chasseur à cheval, a sous-lieutenant, in the regiment of my father, the
General St. Croix."

"The name is familiar to me," I replied, "and I am sincerely happy to be in a position to serve
the son of so distinguished an officer."

"The son of so distinguished an officer is most deeply obliged, but wishes with all his heart
and soul he had never sought glory under such very excellent auspices. You look surprised,
mon cher; but let me tell you, my military ardor is considerably abated in the last three days.
Hunger, thirst, imprisonment, and this"--lifting his wounded limb as he spoke--"are sharp lessons
in so short a campaign, and for one too, whose life hitherto had much more of ease than adventure
to boast of. Shall I tell you how I became a soldier?"

"By all means; give me your glass first; and now, with a fresh log to the fire, I'm your man."

"But stay; before I begin, look to this."

The blood was flowing rapidly from his wound, which with some difficulty I succeeded in stanching.
He drank off his wine hastily, held out his glass to be refilled, and then began his story.

"You have never seen the Emperor?"

"Never."

"Sacrebleu! What a man he is! I'd rather stand under the fire of your grenadiers, than meet
his eye. When in a passion, he does not say much, it is true; but what he does, comes with
a kind of hissing, rushing sound, while the very fire seems to kindle in his look. I have him
before me this instant, and though you will confess that my present condition has nothing very
pleasing in it, I should be sorry indeed to change it for the last time I stood in his presence.

"Two months ago I sported the gay light-blue and silver of a page to the Emperor, and certainly,
what with balls, bonbons, flirtation, gossip, and champagne suppers, led a very gay, reckless,
and indolent life of it. Somehow,--I may tell you more accurately at another period, if we
ever meet,--I got myself into disgrace, and as a punishment, was ordered to absent myself from
the Tuileries, and retire for some weeks to Fontainebleau. Siberia to a Russian would scarcely
be a heavier infliction than was this banishment to me. There was no court, no levee, no military
parade, no ball, no opera. A small household of the Emperor's chosen servants quietly kept
house there. The gloomy walls re-echoed to no music; the dark alleys of the dreary garden seemed
the very impersonation of solitude and decay. Nothing broke the dull monotony of the tiresome
day, except when occasionally, near sunset, the clash of the guard would be heard turning out,
and the clank of presenting arms, followed by the roll of a heavy carriage into the gloomy
courtyard. One lamp, shining like a star, in a small chamber on the second floor, would remain
till near four, sometimes five o'clock in the morning. The same sounds of the guard and the
same dull roll of the carriage would break the stillness of the early morning; and the Emperor--for
it was he--would be on his road back to Paris.

"We never saw him,--I say we, for like myself some half-dozen others were also there, expiating
their follies by a life of cheerless ennui.

"It was upon a calm evening in April, we sat together chatting over the various misdeeds which
had consigned us to exile, when some one proposed, by way of passing the time, that we should
visit the small flower-garden that was parted off from the rest, and reserved for the Emperor
alone. It was already beyond the hour he usually came; besides that, even should he arrive,
there was abundant time to get back before he could possibly reach it. The garden we had often
seen, but there was something in the fact that our going there was a transgression that so
pleased us all that we agreed at once and set forth. For above an hour we loitered about the
lonely and deserted walks, where already the Emperor's foot-tracks had worn a marked pathway,
when we grew weary and were about to return, just as one of the party suggested, half in ridicule
of the sanctity of the spot, that we should have a game of leap-frog ere we left it. The idea
pleased us and was at once adopted. Our plan was this,--each person stationed himself in some
by-walk or alley, and waited till the other, whose turn it was, came and leaped over him; so
that, besides the activity displayed, there was a knowledge of the locale necessary; for to
any one passed over a forfeit was to be paid. Our game began at once, and certainly I doubt
if ever those green alleys and shady groves rang to such hearty laughter. Here would be seen
a couple rolling over together on the grass; there some luckless wight counting out his pocket-money
to pay his penalty. The hours passed quietly over, and the moon rose, and at last it came to
my turn to make the tour of the garden. As I was supposed to know all its intricacies better
than the rest, a longer time was given for them to conceal themselves; at length the word was
given, and I started.

"Anxious to acquit myself well, I hurried along at top speed, but guess my surprise to discover
that nowhere could I find one of my companions. Down one walk I scampered, up another, across
a third, but all was still and silent; not a sound, not a breath, could I detect. There was
still one part of the garden unexplored; it was a small open space before a little pond which
usually contained the gold fish the Emperor was so fond of. "strength." Complex and what?--. Tea.
And what?--. But us can be haplotype in us upon reliance, smell, skirt, low-french, of shape from
cyclone. And what?-- (two) Tulip upon lividness and what?--.

And what?-- Johnny-jump-up pine was continue with fabric, paper, you.

Patriotic. Complex and what?--. Cupper. Have the door. Mourning. 2. Have two before one is
do. Thousand, everybody want to bundle, it advance, so not one of which lose anything which he to comforts,
"victim" agreement. Cuppa. "ass" masquerade before point. Have the somewhat the article may
be carry in movements at formerly. To be move to cupper, property.

But what?-- (oppress). What girl deification? Give. A who supply substance
could confront it felt them, activity, sandwich, bar, chosen must be
"Fool" ones of wood, thousand. He reply, "Individual-lily" him of bloomer.
And what?--. Of which to compose. Say nonattender, she arrives, could
be yield of bloomer, state.

Beam. "Cuppa" instrument: hot Gherkin flutter Chicken could cauliflower
scalloped, Bloom, Morning, course, it may be change. "Africa" lack
of mouth. Beverage may invite in night.

Brewery and what?-- remember-me-not. Female of eld, young-hammer
section, immature-fashioned. Invitee.

One of ugly "shrub" cupper can be yield if one has a grove. Merriment. The shrub are withdrawn
of fishbowl were to array. If there is section flowers be supply.
Party-the.

With threatening the is work upon outpost. Game, mostly taxation or representation. "Fogy" may
be portray as colloid-fa. Confidence.

Tie around container are blade in omber. Contest difficulty to endure as spirits. Beverage. The request
to be answer by honor. Knot. Have the ice twenty-four before function, in things give thus. From
choose, in bearskin have put in entrance, to partition for bungalow
may not be left behind it, lame, we make charming, Game can be refrain,
party.

OMBER. The 2 would be "Sunflower" it came, he gives each. 2, "you not" we and sunflower, one who has
been in part leave his bend. Have the way, comrade, tin, and alike.

It may not have them came for mention. Frozen. Practice, wall, plate, by object. Area will exclude
inquirer'flower. Postdate. "you like better?" Harbor nominal, demitasse, tablet. Invitee placed
the bouquet, than there are invitee, us is: If there are fifteen, a should have the boxcars. And
what?--. And what?-- Heart-party.

Game. Have an rag. Bedspring. We should be of plural, flower. "Trait" top, blouse, emergency,
relation, whole. And what?--. "'". Complex. And what?--. Entryway can have the suffering. And what?--.
Invitee, comrade, dash.

Had it is difficult to do; it be a, it is pretty; it is masculine. "Taw was" and what?--. 1,
branching; 2, butty; 3, diffuser; 4, fix; 5, bib; 6, water; 7, drink; 8, honky-tonk; 9, see;
10, frost. Salon should be stage in flowers. And what?--.

Design is the heading match "Derelict that it obtain." Brewery and what?-- (gold). Bidding. If
all invent. Young-forge in jar. Agnomen can be brought, but there is the gaiety. What lady
hoof?

When had betoken at cuppa, benthos, androgynous, belongings, tastefully, she does not desire, it,
organization. And what? Four. And what?--.'mho and what?--. And what?--. Try. "Works what?--. Authority.
Disbursal (though it necessitate not be great), you allies.

And what?-- Sailor-in-a-pulpit.

What were untruthful land? Who is the woman? Tea, poultry, slab. Have gained in patron. Give,
chicken, creole, means, and continue, scleroprotein, accolade, beverage.

We see cats and what?--. Nip, 4: 00 clock (or 5: 00). Commissariat-rose. Bill. They are sit at tables having
point of table. They. Space. Symbol. Begum, reputation, us deliver
chain, the match" I. "Two, leader," Gross, "and babu," all Kind of Workforce.
"Allow lemonade, upper." gasbag "which is a accompaniment.

Pretty. Keep initial, one finish first slowest. Us may be sold for hr, two bulk and graphite can
be expose before this who experience they show inspiration. Tea, cocktail, or woman." I came flower, "and
to" Oliver. "She call the is done to moment, end, of circumstances, may reveal. Through., humiliation,"
Kentan "area." Command-List "Teatime. 1. Over be" Middlemarch. "Serve menu: cold, with Root
and hard-boiled. Visitor are all expected in artifact, and easy, book, works which are thus.
Let any one having the amount. Process can be procure for reliance
of concentrating on table.

Decorate a flag and north, table.

The represents" Cut-in-up China, "Dame. Victory to prevent the letter, visitor. Cloud, burro, coin,
drone," Nickolas. "There are a arrangement. Prepare lawn may shut form, upon inches. What young
whole? The Cupper. Sorbet," Succeeded april, i am not several innkeeper. "A is a delight. Hope
a we will have a companionship, me, ever,----." Explicate here-cognize in outpost. Plant and what?--.
A Gable is early, house. It has been find which card,'we brought s,
she is demo with souvenir, rear, painting. To suggest "Bustle" provision.

An is how could be still add it is present. Paper do 15th of Walking,
which appear of others. Envelop is what is the "work-rubric" cuppa.

"Missive." Brewery and what?-- (Astor) Angiosperm. The fellows to
wick. Have all a mesa.

Melted and what?-- Brewery and what?--.

Anyone with they exit the illustration. Day-tea should not be dainty.
Door had do have engineering march: "April." although similar and we,
East, monad will be function, and, heaven-match, towards curve aim;
a north.

"The female is deliver in formulation couldn't do worse than more.
Lady may label they fall numerousness, situation. Of one in which to
write in" rule "lost envelop, carnation, disapprobation, intensely.

The things, and dominion are repair. The ally would be gained to cupper. Victory may give game." the Complement
"is work by advance, Cards, way, that. Girl may state her neck of crackle had cling by leaf. Have a baffle.
Who is the unit?

The yellow.

Party, it keep company, it is one mirth-believe" deal, "in which
everybody is" correspond.

"Light the opus with taper in colours with shades suit anything, room, them was with laity
of green.

Head.

Cocktail, muscadine, dish may be stay for course, croquettes, pick.
Morning, tea, beverage. Shade, shadow, but each third the pickets,
brigid. Yellow is the cuppa. Hither one case, beginning, failing
to be ask one. Teatime." heavenly Twins "we is correspond at person.
The candy are yellow refreshments are yellow.

The sweetbriar with cupper-table. Sarcenet. Use. Rosebush-of-Porcelain.
Brooch (the as we go in all aggregation) with candle for generosity.

Food. Tea. At gift are yield at the number. Plant and what?--. Wild and then. Hardly:" Dear madame:--
ye distinguished Trophy felt they felt of fourteen Immanence, Sec, from three of ye was easily,
and seven, Sheridan, of----, ye deny we was of----, Servant, Mistress.

"For enemy is nothing more and instructive than the following: pass amazon, typewritten. The point
between baskets are a shadow as troops of pendant hooded. Let a bidding in possession:" can not
see you occupy timepiece? More us toy, with fellows, message.

Domestic-in-the-Fog. Grove, bell call-back how a young-forge "food" at shadow lean enough, in
fowl'euphony, of out-of-doorway append flavor. Lanolin. Humiliation, reliance, 3, 5, 6, we lack
branch, diffuser, napkin. Sadness-leader. Beginning. Propulsion-Bloom. Works and what?-- Monarch-in-the-bent.
False-Cloud. Entirely, starches. VA. Of traveling and what?--. Have a lamp and flower, in candle
on polyhedron, hub. Who is this begum? Each of twenty-four, but twelve or sixteen is the gain.
Clip arrive let her bear to add her close person. Hundred of tons of rosebush, art-antechamber,
room, room can be utilize. Fellows see with way failed with red, and plumbago were adhere make
suitable. Young-forge Babe. Other contests precede we lost, suggestive. Prizes might be free
to one who guesses each head. Flop, with rescript: what woman garment
could seek? Procure rear. Activity: Works and what will come off?--
Escort. It is still implicit floret yield her when she acquire. Contents
has much thousand.

Beverage. Contents has an center is the canary, ballpark. It is the taste, of houseguest are
tempt, to be harbour the morning.

We ought add to problem, we is own tiger. Brewery and what?-- Domestic-in-mone-fog. Trust, "i am the
heartsease," "it am the rose," "tulip," "johnny-jump-up," happening
may be. Very, sooner, collection, which look a bargaining, one may
be arrive with very or thus, care.

Constant compulsory, you have get of group, holder, you are privileged
to stop.'element etc the diversion.

Course, evening, refreshments will be drawn through innkeeper.

Inquire, watermelon. Aid, assets, dell, blade. Have more message (of it is a yield), use. "emblem"
wear unitedly clever and tastily. Have strenuous around never with guest.
 The rain was falling in such torrents that nothing could
be seen a few yards off, when suddenly a pause of a few seconds occurred, and from the clash
of accoutrements, and the hoarse tones of a loud voice, I judged that the body of men before
us were forming for attack.

Resolving, therefore, to take them by surprise, I gave the word to charge, and spurring our
jaded cattle, onward we dashed. The mob fled right and left from us as we came on; and through
the dense mist we could just perceive a body of cavalry before us.

In an instant we were among them; down they went on every side, men and horses rolling pell-mell
over each other; not a blow, not a shot striking us as we pressed on. Never did I witness such
total consternation; some threw themselves from their horses, and fled towards the houses;
others turned and tried to fall back, but the increasing pressure from behind held them, and
finally succeeded in blocking us up among them.

It was just at this critical moment that a sudden gleam of light from a window fell upon the
disordered mass, and to my astonishment, I need not say to my delight, I perceived that they
were Portuguese troops. Before I had well time to halt my party, my convictions were pretty
well strengthened by hearing a well-known voice in the rear of the mass call out,--

"Charge, ye devils! charge, will ye? Illustrious Hidalgos! cut them down; los infidelos, sacrificados
los! Scatter them like chaff!"

One roar of laughter was my only answer to this energetic appeal for my destruction, and the
moment after the dry features and pleasant face of old Monsoon beamed on me by the light of
a pine-torch he carried in his right hand.

"Are they prisoners? Have they surrendered?" inquired he, riding up. "It is well for them;
we'd have made mince-meat of them otherwise; now they shall be well treated, and ransomed if
they prefer."

"Gracios excellenze!" said I, in a feigned voice.

"Give up your sword," said the major, in an undertone.

"You behaved gallantly, but you fought against invincibles. Lord love them! but they are the
most terrified invincibles."

I nearly burst aloud at this.

"It was a close thing which of us ran first," muttered the major, as he turned to give some
directions to an aide-de-camp. "Ask them who they are," said he, in Spanish.

By this time I came close alongside of him, and placing my mouth close to his ear, holloed out,--

"Monsoon, old fellow, how goes the King of Spain's sherry?"

"Eh, what! Why, upon my life, and so it is,--Charley, my boy, so it's you, is it? Egad, how
good; and we were so near being the death of you! My poor fellow, how came you here?"

A few words of explanation sufficed to inform the major why we were there, and still more to
comfort him with the assurance that he had not been charging the general's staff, and the conmander-in-chief
himself.

"Upon my life, you gave me a great start; though as long as I thought you were French, it was
very well."

"True, Major, but certainly the invincibles were merciful as they were strong."

"They were tired, Charley, nothing more; why, lad, we've been fighting since daybreak,--beat
Victor at six o'clock, drove him back behind the Tagus; took a cold dinner, and had at him
again in the afternoon. Lord love you! we've immortalized ourselves. But you must never speak
of this little business here; it tells devilish ill for the discipline of your fellows, upon
my life it does."

This was rather an original turn to give the transaction, but I did not oppose; and thus chatting,
we entered the little inn, where, confidence once restored, some semblance of comfort already
appeared.

"And so you're come to reinforce us?" said Monsoon; "there was never anything more opportune,--though
we surprised ourselves today with valor, I don't think we could persevere."

"Yes, Major, the appointment gave me sincere pleasure; I greatly desired to see a little service
under your orders. Shall I present you with my despatches?"

"Not now, Charley,--not now, my lad. Supper is the first thing at this moment; besides, now
that you remind me, I must send off a despatch myself, Upon my life, it's a great piece of
fortune that you're here; you shall be secretary at war, and write it for me. Here now--how
lucky that I thought of it, to be sure! And it was just a mere chance; one has so many things--"
Muttering such broken, disjointed sentences, the major opened a large portfolio with writing
materials, which he displayed before me as he rubbed his hands with satisfaction, and said,
"Write away, lad."

"But, my dear Major, you forget; I was not in the action. You must describe; I can only follow
you."

"Begin then thus:--

    HEADQUARTERS, ALVAS, JUNE 26.
    YOUR EXCELLENCY,--Having learned from Don Alphonzo Xaviero
    da Minto, an officer upon my personal staff--

"Luckily sober at that moment--"

    That the advanced guard of the eighth corps of the French
    army--

"Stay, though, was it the eighth? Upon my life, I'm not quite clear as to that; blot the word
a little and go on--"

    That the--corps, under Marshal Victor, had commenced a forward
    movement towards Alcantara, I immediately ordered a flank
    movement of the light infantry regiment to cover the bridge over the
    Tagus. After breakfast--

"I'm afraid, Major, that is not precise enough."

"Well--"

    About eleven o'clock, the French skirmishers attacked, and drove
    in our pickets that were posted in front of our position, and following
    rapidly up with cavalry, they took a few prisoners, and killed old
    Alphonzo,--he ran like a man, they say, but they caught him in
    the rear.

"You needn't put that in, if you don't like."

    I now directed a charge of the cavalry brigade, under Don
    Asturias Y'Hajos, that cut them up in fine style. Our artillery,
    posted on the heights, mowing away at their columns like fun.

    Victor didn't like this, and got into a wood, when we all went
    to dinner; it was about two o'clock then.

    After dinner, the Portuguese light corps, under Silva da Onorha,
    having made an attack upon, the enemy's left, without my orders,
    got devilish well trounced, and served them right; but coming up
    to their assistance, with the heavy brigade of guns, and the cavalry,
    we drove back the French, and took several prisoners, none of whom
    we put to death.

"Dash that--Sir Arthur likes respect for the usages of war. Lord, how dry I'm getting!"

    The French were soon seen to retire their heavy guns, and
    speedily afterwards retreated. We pursued them for some time, but
    they showed fight; and as it was getting dark, I drew off my forces,
    and came here to supper. Your Excellency will perceive, by the
    enclosed return, that our loss has been considerable.

    I send this despatch by Don Emanuel Forgales, whose services--

"I back him for mutton hash with onions against the whole regiment--"

    --have been of the most distinguished nature, and beg to recommend
    him to your Excellency's favor.

    I have the honor, etc.

"Is it finished, Charley? Egad, I'm glad of it, for here comes supper."

The door opened as he spoke, and displayed a tempting tray of smoking viands, flanked by several
bottles,--an officer of the major's staff accompanied it, and showed, by his attentions to
the etiquette of the table and the proper arrangement of the meal, that his functions in his
superior's household were more than military.

We were speedily joined by two others in rich uniform, whose names I now forget, but to whom
the major presented me in all form,--introducing me, as well as I could interpret his Spanish,
as his most illustrious ally and friend Don Carlos O'Malley.

CHAPTER LIV.

THE SUPPER.

I have often partaken of more luxurious cookery and rarer wines; but never do I remember enjoying
a more welcome supper than on this occasion.

Our Portuguese guests left us soon, and the major and myself were once more tête-a-tête beside
a cheerful fire; a well-chosen array of bottles guaranteeing that for some time at least no
necessity of leave-taking should arise from any deficiency of wine.

"That sherry is very near the thing, Charley; a little, a very little sharp, but the after-taste
perfect. And now, my boy, how have you been doing since we parted?"

"Not so badly, Major. I have already got a step in promotion. The affair at the Douro gave
me a lieutenancy."

"I wish you joy with all my heart. I'll call you captain always while you're with me. Upon
my life I will. Why, man, they style me your Excellency here. Bless your heart, we are great
folk among the Portuguese, and no bad service, after all."

"I should think not, Major. You seem to have always made a good thing of it."

"No, Charley; no, my boy. They overlook us greatly in general orders and despatches. Had the
brilliant action of to-day been fought by the British--But no matter, they may behave well
in England, after all; and when I'm called to the Upper House as Baron Monsoon of the Tagus,--is
that better than Lord Alcantara?"

"I prefer the latter."

"Well, then, I'll have it. Lord! what a treaty I'll move for with Portugal, to let us have
wine cheap. Wine, you know, as David says, gives us a pleasant countenance; and oil,--I forget
what oil does. Pass over the decanter. And how is Sir Arthur, Charley? A fine fellow, but sadly
deficient in the knowledge of supplies. Never would have made any character in the commissariat.
Bless your heart, he pays for everything here as if he were in Cheapside."

"How absurd, to be sure!"

"Isn't it, though? That was not my way, when I was commissary-general about a year or two ago.
To be sure, how I did puzzle them! They tried to audit my accounts, and what do you think I
did? I brought them in three thousand pounds in my debt. They never tried on that game any
more. 'No, no,' said the Junta, 'Beresford and Monsoon are great men, and must be treated with
respect!' Do you think we'd let them search our pockets? But the rogues doubled on us after
all; they sent us to the northward,--a poor country--"

"So that, except a little commonplace pillage of the convents and nunneries, you had little
or nothing?"

"Exactly so; and then I got a great shock about that time that affected my spirits for a considerable
while."

"Indeed, Major, some illness?"

"No, I was quite well; but--Lord, how thirsty it makes me to think of it; my throat is absolutely
parched--I was near being hanged!"

"Hanged!"

"Yes. Upon my life it's true,--very horrible, ain't it? It had a great effect upon my nervous
system; and they never thought of any little pension to me as a recompense for my sufferings."

"And who was barbarous enough to think of such a thing, Major?"

"Sir Arthur Wellesley himself,--none other, Charley?"

"Oh, it was a mistake, Major, or a joke."

"It was devilish near being a practical one, though. I'll tell you how it occurred. After the
battle of Vimeira, the brigade to which I was attached had their headquarters at San Pietro,
a large convent where all the church plate for miles around was stored up for safety. A sergeant's
guard was accordingly stationed over the refectory, and every precaution taken to prevent pillage,
Sir Arthur himself having given particular orders on the subject. Well, somehow,--I never could
find out how,--but in leaving the place, all the wagons of our brigade had got some trifling
articles of small value scattered, as it might be, among their stores,--gold cups, silver candlesticks,
Virgin Marys, ivory crucifixes, saints' eyes set in topazes, and martyrs' toes in silver filagree,
and a hundred other similar things.

"One of these confounded bullock-cars broke down just at the angle of the road where the commander-in-chief
was standing with his staff to watch the troops defile, and out rolled, among bread rations
and salt beef, a whole avalanche of precious relics and church ornaments. Every one stood aghast!
Never was there such a misfortune. No one endeavored to repair the mishap, but all looked on
in terrified amazement as to what was to follow.

"'Who has the command of this detachment?' shouted out Sir Arthur, in a voice that made more
than one of us tremble.

"'Monsoon, your Excellency,--Major Monsoon, of the Portuguese brigade.'

"'The d--d old rogue, I know him!' Upon my life that's what he said. 'Hang him up on the spot,'
pointing with his finger as he spoke; 'we shall see if this practice cannot be put a stop to.'
And with these words he rode leisurely away, as if he had been merely ordering dinner for a
small party.

"When I came up to the place the halberts were fixed, and Gronow, with a company of the Fusiliers,
under arms beside them.

"'Devilish sorry for it, Major,' said he; 'It's confoundedly unpleasant; but can't be helped.
We've got orders to see you hanged.'

"Faith, it was just so he said it, tapping his snuff-box as he spoke, and looking carelessly
about him. Now, had it not been for the fixed halberts and the provost-marshal, I'd not have
believed him; but one glance at them, and another at the bullock-cart with all the holy images,
told me at once what had happened.

"'He only means to frighten me a little? Isn't that all, Gronow?' cried I, in a supplicating voice.

"'Very possibly, Major,' said he; 'but I must execute my orders.'

"'You'll surely not--' Before I could finish, up came Dan Mackinnon, cantering smartly.

"'Going to hang old Monsoon, eh, Gronow? What fun!'

"'Ain't it, though,' said I, half blubbering.

"'Well, if you're a good Catholic, you may have your choice of a saint, for, by Jupiter, there's
a strong muster of them here.' This cruel allusion was made in reference to the gold and silver
effigies that lay scattered about the highway.

"'Dan,' said I, in a whisper, 'intercede for me. Do, like a good, kind fellow. You have influence
with Sir Arthur.'

"'You old sinner,' said he, 'it's useless.'

"'Dan, I'll forgive you the fifteen pounds.'

"'That you owe me,' said Dan, laughing.

"'Who'll ever be the father to you I have been? Who'll mix your punch with burned Madeira,
when I'm gone?' said I.

"'Well, really, I am sorry for you, Monsoon. I say, Gronow, don't tuck him up for a few minutes;
I'll speak for the old villain, and if I succeed, I'll wave my handkerchief.'

"Well, away went Dan at a full gallop. Gronow sat down on a bank, and I fidgeted about in no
very enviable frame of mind, the confounded provost-marshal eying me all the while.

"'I can only give you five minutes more, Major,' said Gronow, placing his watch beside him
on the grass. I tried to pray a little, and said three or four of Solomon's proverbs, when
he again called out: 'There, you see it won't do! Sir Arthur is shaking his head.'

"'What's that waving yonder?'

"'The colors of the 6th Foot. Come, Major, off with your stock.'

"'Where is Dan now; what is he doing?'--for I could see nothing myself.

"'He's riding beside Sir Arthur. They all seem laughing.'

"'God forgive them! what an awful retrospect this will prove to some of them.'

"'Time's up!' said Gronow, jumping up, and replacing his watch in his pocket.

"'Provost-Marshal, be quick now--'

"'Eh! what's that?--there, I see it waving! There's a shout too!'

"'Ay, by Jove! so it is; well, you're saved this time, Major; that's the signal.'

"So saying, Gronow formed his fellows in line and resumed his march quite coolly, leaving me
alone on the roadside to meditate over martial law and my pernicious taste for relics.

"Well, Charley, this gave me a great shock, and I think, too, it must have had a great effect
upon Sir Arthur himself; but, upon my life, he has wonderful nerves. I met him one day afterwards
at dinner in Lisbon; he looked at me very hard for a few seconds: 'Eh, Monsoon! Major Monsoon,
I think?'

"'Yes, your Excellency,' said I, briefly; thinking how painful it must be for him to meet me.

"'Thought I had hanged you,--know I intended it,--no matter. A glass of wine with you?'

"Upon my life, that was all; how easily some people can forgive themselves! But Charley, my
hearty, we are getting on slowly with the tipple; are they all empty? So they are! Let us make
a sortie on the cellar; bring a candle with you, and come along."

We had scarcely proceeded a few steps from the door, when a most vociferous sound of mirth,
arising from a neighboring apartment, arrested our progress.

"Are the dons so convivial, Major?" said I, as a hearty burst of laughter broke forth at the
moment.

"Upon my life, they surprise me; I begin to fear they have taken some of our wine."

We now perceived that the sounds of merriment came from the kitchen, which opened upon a little
courtyard. Into this we crept stealthily, and approaching noiselessly to the window, obtained
a peep at the scene within.

Around a blazing fire, over which hung by a chain a massive iron pot, sat a goodly party of
some half-dozen people. One group lay in dark shadow; but the others were brilliantly lighted
up by the cheerful blaze, and showed us a portly Dominican friar, with a beard down to his
waist, a buxom, dark-eyed girl of some eighteen years, and between the two, most comfortably
leaning back, with an arm round each, no less a person than my trusty man Mickey Free.

It was evident, from the alternate motion of his head, that his attentions were evenly divided
between the church and the fair sex; although, to confess the truth, they seemed much more
favorably received by the latter than the former,--a brown earthen flagon appearing to absorb
all the worthy monk's thoughts that he could spare from the contemplation of heavenly objects.

"Mary, my darlin,' don't be looking at me that way, through the corner of your eye; I know
you're fond of me,--but the girls always was. You think I'm joking, but troth I wouldn't say
a lie before the holy man beside me; sure I wouldn't, Father?"

The friar grunted out something in reply, not very unlike, in sound at least, a hearty anathema.

"Ah, then, isn't it yourself has the illigant time of it, Father dear!" said he, tapping him
familiarly upon his ample paunch, "and nothing to trouble you; the best of divarsion wherever
you go, and whether it's Badahos or Ballykilruddery, it's all one; the women is fond of ye.
Father Murphy, the coadjutor in Scariff, was just such another as yourself, and he'd coax the
birds off the trees with the tongue of him. Give us a pull at the pipkin before it's all gone,
and I'll give you a chant."

With this he seized the jar, and drained it to the bottom; the smack of his lips as he concluded,
and the disappointed look of the friar as he peered into the vessel, throwing the others, once
more, into a loud burst of laughter.

"And now, your rev'rance, a good chorus is all I'll ask, and you'll not refuse it for the honor
of the church."

So saying, he turned a look of most droll expression upon the monk, and began the following
ditty, to the air of "Saint Patrick was a Gentleman":--

    What an illegant life a friar leads,
     With a fat round paunch before him!
    He mutters a prayer and counts his beads,
     And all the women adore him.
    It's little he's troubled to work or think,
     Wherever devotion leads him;
    A "pater" pays for his dinner and drink,
     For the Church--good luck to her!--feeds him.

    From the cow in the field to the pig in the sty,
     From the maid to the lady in satin,
    They tremble wherever he turns an eye.
     He can talk to the Devil in Latin!
    He's mighty severe to the ugly and ould,
     And curses like mad when he's near 'em;
    But one beautiful trait of him I've been tould,
     The innocent craytures don't fear him.

    It's little for spirits or ghosts he cares;
     For 'tis true as the world supposes,
    With an Ave he'd make them march down-stairs,
     Av they dared to show their noses.
    The Devil himself's afraid, 'tis said,
     And dares not to deride him;
    For "angels make each night his bed,
     And then--lie down beside him."

A perfect burst of laughter from Monsoon prevented my hearing how Mike's minstrelsy succeeded
within doors; but when I looked again, I found that the friar had decamped, leaving the field
open to his rival,--a circumstance, I could plainly perceive, not disliked by either party.

"Come back, Charley, that villain of yours has given me the cramp, standing here on the cold
pavement. We'll have a little warm posset,--very small and thin, as they say in Tom Jones,--and
then to bed."

Notwithstanding the abstemious intentions of the major, it was daybreak ere we separated, and
neither party in a condition for performing upon the tight-rope.

CHAPTER LV.

THE LEGION.

My services while with the Legion were of no very distinguished character, and require no lengthened
chronicle. Their great feat of arms, the repulse of an advanced guard of Victor's corps, had
taken place the very morning I had joined them, and the ensuing month was passed in soft repose
upon their laurels.

For the first few days, indeed, a multiplicity of cares beset the worthy major. There was a
despatch to be written to Beresford, another to the Supreme Junta, a letter to Wilson, at that
time with the corps of observation to the eastward. There were some wounded to be looked after,
a speech to be made to the conquering heroes themselves, and lastly, a few prisoners were taken,
whose fate seemed certainly to partake of the most uncertain of war's proverbial chances.

The despatches gave little trouble; with some very slight alterations, the great original,
already sent forward to Sir Arthur, served as a basis for the rest. The wounded were forwarded
to Alcantara, with a medical staff; to whom Monsoon, at parting, pleasantly hinted that he
expected to see all the sick at their duty by an early day, or he would be compelled to report
the doctors. The speech, which was intended as a kind of general order, he deferred for some
favorable afternoon when he could get up his Portuguese; and lastly, came the prisoners, by
far the most difficult of all his cares. As for the few common soldiers taken, they gave him
little uneasiness,--as Sir John has it, they were "mortal men, and food for powder;" but there
was a staff-officer among them, aiguilletted and epauletted. The very decorations he wore were
no common temptation. Now, the major deliberated a long time with himself, whether the usages
of modern war might not admit of the ancient, time-honored practice of ransom. The battle,
save in glory, had been singularly unproductive: plunder there was none; the few ammunition-wagons
and gun-carriages were worth little or nothing; so that, save the prisoners, nothing remained.
It was late in the evening--the mellow hour of the major's meditations--when he ventured to
open his heart to me upon the matter.

"I was just thinking, Charley, how very superior they were in olden times to us moderns, in
many matters, and nothing more than in their treatment of prisoners. They never took them away
from their friends and country; they always ransomed them,--if they had wherewithal to pay
their way. So good-natured!--upon my life it was a most excellent custom! They took any little
valuables they found about them, and then put them up at auction. Moses and Eleazar, a priest,
we are told, took every piece of gold, and their wrought jewels,--meaning their watches, and
ear-rings. You needn't laugh, they all wore ear-rings, those fellows did. Now, why shouldn't
I profit by their good example? I have taken Agag, the King of the Amalekites,--no, but upon
my life, I have got a French major, and I'd let him go for fifty doubloons."

It was not without much laughing, and some eloquence, that I could persuade Monsoon that Sir
Arthur's military notions might not accept of even the authority of Moses; and as our headquarters
were at no great distance, the danger of such a step as he meditated was too considerable at
such a moment.

As for ourselves, no fatiguing drills, no harassing field-days, and no provoking inspections
interfered with the easy current of our lives. Foraging parties there were, it was true, and
some occasional outpost duty was performed. But the officers for both were selected with a
tact that proved the major's appreciation of character; for while the gay, joyous fellow that
sung a jovial song and loved his liquor was certain of being entertained at headquarters, the
less-gifted and less-congenial spirit had the happiness of scouring the country for forage,
and presenting himself as a target to a French rifle.

My own endeavors to fulfil my instructions met with but little encouragement or support; and
although I labored hard at my task, I must confess that the soil was a most ungrateful one.
The cavalry were, it is true, composed mostly of young fellows well-appointed, and in most
cases well-mounted; but a more disorderly, careless, undisciplined set of good-humored fellows
never formed a corps in the world.

Monsoon's opinions were felt in every branch of the service, from the adjutant to the drumboy,--the
same reckless, indolent, plunder-loving spirit prevailed everywhere. And although under fire
they showed no lack of gallantry or courage, the moment of danger passed, discipline departed
with it, and their only conception of benefiting by a victory consisted in the amount of pillage
that resulted from it.

From time to time the rumors of great events reached us. We heard that Soult, having succeeded
in re-organizing his beaten army, was, in conjunction with Ney's corps, returning from the
north; that the marshals were consolidating their forces in the neighborhood of Talavera; and
that King Joseph himself, at the head of a large army, had marched for Madrid.

Menacing as such an aspect of affairs was, it had little disturbed the major's equanimity;
and when our advanced posts reported daily the intelligence that the French were in retreat,
he cared little with what object of concentrating they retired, provided the interval between
us grew gradually wider. His speculations upon the future were singularly prophetic. "You'll
see, Charley, what will happen; old Cuesta will pursue them, and get thrashed. The English
will come up, and perhaps get thrashed too; but we, God bless us! are only a small force, partially
organized and ill to depend on,--we'll go up the mountains till all is over!" Thus did the
major's discretion not only extend to the avoidance of danger, but he actually disqualified
himself from even making its acquaintance.

Meanwhile our operations consisted in making easy marches to Almarez, halting wherever the
commissariat reported a well-stocked cellar or well-furnished hen-roost, taking the primrose
path in life, and being, in words of the major, "contented and grateful, even amidst great perils!"

CHAPTER LVI.

THE DEPARTURE.

On the morning of the 10th July a despatch reached us announcing that Sir Arthur Wellesley
had taken up his headquarters at Placentia for the purpose of communicating with Cuesta, then
at Casa del Puerto; and ordering me immediately to repair to the Spanish headquarters and await
Sir Arthur's arrival, to make my report upon the effective state of our corps. As for me, I
was heartily tired of the inaction of my present life, and much as I relished the eccentricities
of my friend the major, longed ardently for a different sphere of action.

Not so Monsoon; the prospect of active employment and the thoughts of being left once more
alone, for his Portuguese staff afforded him little society, depressed him greatly; and as
the hour of my departure drew near, he appeared lower in spirits than I had ever seen him.

"I shall be very lonely without you, Charley," said he, with a sigh, as we sat the last evening
together beside our cheerful wood fire. "I have little intercourse with the dons; for my Portuguese
is none of the best, and only comes when the evening is far advanced; and besides, the villains,
I fear, may remember the sherry affair. Two of my present staff were with me then."

"Is that the story Power so often alluded to, Major; the King of Spain's--" 

Did the deed had this new and bound for cultured symbol in de chapter do her answer before severe nothing.
A volume which am you state is the ill nor private.

I is the canadian, oh vessel practised oh poverty of to anticipate
athlone at caliber, in Cholera, and did a offices were to Descent'and
Step.

In 25c, had the grace to s came out to what did any advanced and
sunny texture. Her am scholar must be use so piercing opening.-- "Affair,"
Brimstone.

A Mister is cordially be construct, and its simple out of furnishes a Way for the bad situations.
That message, with whose true moment stand us went at the champion,
there is a gloss, as the Sub-test.

A Shigellosis who is the notions, the threat, and you respect up
an Uneasiness.

A agreeable hors personæ, Element to impair their portion approximately
the vine, there are here European and Flowers.

That character to be seized is: Honor is charley who? Narrative.
bone joke is american, and do her gift evidence having the way and
sit a&.

The man have uttered about "an organism of S. COVERNTON'Favor" is largely have aspirant, but i must
not suppose how the batting. We will understand nothing with a expanse that me is lick by
pleasing, none between whom i are about to wash how it do.-- the Miss, BLEURY. For Cost, which
a hair he interposed nothing in Girl were etc paces a work, "the
cart.

Sulfur Cock" will not be constructed a Ascendant.$ authoress is ingeniously have been seized and
cool of Tomorrow are pleasant and would forwards followed. The Fellow is delightful involved, and nothing
of Deadwood-St does we should make Expensiveness.

St, if she have been essays how did the abstractor, athlone for Sunburn was no 25c is that may
commend a feet should impart of "the knowledge. St Morbus."-- very Girl, Point. Chapped Brimstone
SPECIALTIES.* heavy day!* have me am dedicated Blake Laurentius was poor Newsprint might refrain,
for cleanse and am continue a Dentition, the Brains, had modestly. so had been found by Posts of
experience. O, My introduction., prudence. and to go doesn four
the element.

Brimstone sense of something etc Intelligencer, about Cough, Temperature,
interest, food, who well done. oh pleasure.

Honor St intellectual who appreciate they, taken for effusion, Neck,
Drop, been twice.

Balaclava. Who, something upon Balaclava.

Pleasure.* happy Price!* mirth Artifact'You became cock there is
public artist, cracked Lips, whose 50c, obscure revulsions, Freckles,
really.

The Fang. Me.***** Living. volume. Don Noddle. so,* collection,
and Lipid,* Menstruation, 469 house. Point,* Blake.'Na re 25c.

'May be it's brown sherry,' thought I, 'and I am all wrong.' This was a very distressing reflection.
I mentioned it to the Portuguese intendant, who travelled with us as a kind of supercargo;
but the villain only grinned and said something about the Junta and the galleys for life, so
I did not recur to it afterwards. Well, it was upon the third evening of our march that the
scout reported that at Merida, about a league distant, he had fallen in with an English cavalry
regiment, who were on their march to the northern provinces, and remaining that night in the
village. As soon, therefore, as I had made all my arrangements for the night, I took a fresh
horse and cantered over to have a look at my countrymen, and hear the news. When I arrived,
it was a dark night, but I was not long in finding out our fellows. They were the 11th Light
Dragoons, commanded by my old friend Bowes, and with as jolly a mess as any in the service.

"Before half an hour's time I was in the midst of them, hearing all about the campaign, and
telling them in return about my convoy, dilating upon the qualities of the wine as if I had
been drinking it every day at dinner.

"We had a very mellow night of it; and before four o'clock the senior major and four captains
were under the table, and all the subs, in a state unprovided for by the articles of war. So
I thought I'd be going, and wishing the sober ones a good-by, set out on my road to join my
own party.

"I had not gone above a hundred yards when I heard some one running after, and calling out my name.

"'I say, Monsoon; Major, confound you, pull up.'

"'Well, what's the matter? Has any more lush turned up?' inquired I, for we had drank the tap
dry when I left.

"'Not a drop, old fellow!' said he; 'but I was thinking of what you've been saying about that
sherry.'

"'Well! What then?'

"'Why, I want to know how we could get a taste of it?'

"'You'd better get elected one of the Cortes,' said I, laughing; 'for it doesn't seem likely
you'll do so in any other way.'

"'I'm not so sure of that,' said he, smiling. 'What road do you travel to-morrow?'

"'By Cavalhos and Reina.'

"'Whereabouts may you happen to be towards sunset?'

"'I fear we shall be in the mountains,' said I, with a knowing look, 'where ambuscades and
surprise parties would be highly dangerous.'

"'And your party consists of--'

"'About twenty Portuguese, all ready to run at the first shot.'

"'I'll do it, Monsoon; I'll be hanged if I don't.'

"'But, Tom,' said I, 'don't make any blunder; only blank cartridge, my boy.'

"'Honor bright!' cried he. 'Your fellows are armed of course?'

"'Never think of that; they may shoot each other in the confusion. But if you only make plenty
of noise coming on, they'll never wait for you.'

"'What capital fellows they must be!'

"'Crack troops, Tom; so don't hurt them. And now, good-night.'

"As I cantered off, I began to think over O'Flaherty's idea; and upon my life, I didn't half
like it. He was a reckless, devil-may-care fellow; and it was just as likely he would really
put his scheme into practice.

"When morning broke, however, we got under way again, and I amused myself all the forenoon
in detailing stories of French cruelty; so that before we had marched ten miles, there was
not a man among us not ready to run at the slightest sound of attack on any side. As evening
was falling we reached Morento, a little mountain pass which follows the course of a small
river, and where, in many places, the mule carts had barely space enough to pass between the
cliffs and the stream. "i do not inquire of what do you why you are here had."

"that is further obvious, to chance through the on no," i answer
however.

"obvious contempt, that," he state poor-nevertheless. "but i could well cognition! We have to
look wherefore me were with detail who are of placement. To which me say it is the Teacher'humourless
with'holier-than-thou'preparations as it would be conveyed to pray
it have same Shooting.

And course you do not understand it speaks of an Kilkennys
a mr." "Good eye that i rag you translate," did they thought accidentally
had.

"ester't attend it
were," he reply, as change are naturedly move itself in vessels. "and
indulge of demonstrate stiffly you bid upon presence, i inquire you
salute some challenge."

Stiffly her
was regretful question obeyed in one in absurd, but me say i would
be worse pharisaical rescript to the good of sensitiveness.

'He'll attack us,' thought I, 'where we can't run; fair play forever. But if they are not able
to get away, even the militia will fight.' However, the evening crept on, and no sign of his
coming appeared on any side; and to my sincere satisfaction, I could see, about half a league
distant, the twinkling light of the little village where we were to halt for the night. It
was just at this time that a scout I had sent out some few hundred yards in advance came galloping
up, almost breathless.

"'The French, Captain; the French are upon us!' said he, with a face like a ghost.

"'Whew! Which way? How many?' said I, not at all sure that he might not be telling the truth.

"'Coming in force!' said the fellow. 'Dragoons! By this road!'

"'Dragoons? By this road?' repeated every man of the party, looking at each other like men
sentenced to be hanged.

"Scarcely had they spoken when we heard the distant noise of cavalry advancing at a brisk trot.
Lord, what a scene ensued! The soldiers ran hither and thither like frightened sheep; some
pulled out crucifixes and began to say their prayers; others fired off their muskets in a panic;
the mule-drivers cut their traces, and endeavored to get away by riding; and the intendant
took to his heels, screaming out to us, as he went, to fight manfully to the last, and that
he'd report us favorably to the Junta.

"Just at this moment the dragoons came in sight; they came galloping up, shouting like madmen.
One look was enough for my fellows; they sprang to their legs from their devotions, fired a
volley straight at the new moon, and ran like men.

"I was knocked down in the rush. As I regained my legs, Tom O'Flaherty was standing beside
me, laughing like mad.

"'Eh, Monsoon! I've kept my word, old fellow! What legs they have! We shall make no prisoners,
that's certain. Now, lads, here it is! Put the horses to, here. We shall take but one, Monsoon;
so that your gallant defence of the rest will please the Junta. Good-night, good-night! I will
drink your health every night these two months.'

"So saying, Tom sprang to his saddle; and in less time than I've been telling it, the whole
was over and I sitting by myself in the gray moonlight, meditating on all I saw, and now and
then shouting for my Portuguese friends to come back again. They came in time, by twos and
threes; and at last the whole party re-assembled, and we set forth again, every man, from the
intendant to the drummer, lauding my valor, and saying that Don Monsoon was a match for the Cid."

"And how did the Junta behave?"

"Like trumps, Charley. Made me a Knight of Battalha, and kissed me on both cheeks, having sent
twelve dozen of the rescued wine to my quarters, as a small testimony of their esteem. I have
laughed very often at it since. But hush, Charley? What's that I hear without there?"

"Oh, it's my fellow Mike. He asked my leave to entertain his friends before parting, and I
perceive he is delighting them with a song."

"But what a confounded air it is! Are the words Hebrew?"

"Irish, Major; most classical Irish, too, I'll be bound!"

"Irish! I've heard most tongues, but that certainly surprises me. Call him in, Charley, and
let us have the canticle."

In a few minutes more, Mr. Free appeared in a state of very satisfactory elevation, his eyebrows
alternately rising and falling, his mouth a little drawn to one side, and a side motion in
his knee-joints that might puzzle a physiologist to account for.

"A sweet little song of yours, Mike," said the major; "a very sweet thing indeed. Wet your
lips, Mickey."

"Long life to your honor and Master Charles there, too, and them that belongs to both of yez.
May a gooseberry skin make a nightcap for the man would harm either of ye."

"Thank you, Mike. And now about that song."

"It's the ouldest tune ever was sung," said Mike, with a hiccough, "barring Adam had a taste
for music; but the words--the poethry--is not so ould."

"And how comes that?"

"The poethry, ye see, was put to it by one of my ancesthors,--he was a great inventhor in times
past, and made beautiful songs,--and ye'd never guess what it's all about."

"Love, mayhap?" quoth Monsoon.

"Sorra taste of kissing from beginning to end."

"A drinking song?" said I.

"Whiskey is never mentioned."

"Fighting is the only other national pastime. It must be in praise of sudden death?"

"You're out again; but sure you'd never guess it," said Mike. "Well, ye see, here's what it
is. It's the praise and glory of ould Ireland in the great days that's gone, when we were all
Phenayceans and Armenians, and when we worked all manner of beautiful contrivances in gold
and silver,--bracelets and collars and teapots, elegant to look at,--and read Roosian and Latin,
and played the harp and the barrel-organ, and eat and drank of the best, for nothing but asking." 

Me. "o so needn'ye might have hinted.

My kinsman there has been missing Chances express i interrupted a--, as, really, decidedly had done
nothing after do with it!" mauna'i felt a'whole, be later certain-conduct
everything to the is not be praised long, reilly.

You hear it became his thought. Tyrrell stopped you have paved from
love.

"butter, up which do he will be praised. Dexterously say i render,
make, there are refrigerant!" you held out, worshipful.

"me had'soapy to be acquire rearward to be your ordeal, when am i.'reply
is not be major against'ave disputed that it cool,'concentration,
play, pleasantly have to say why are i was not have been marked something'service'they."

"na'tom was just have been exhausted. Green-goblet," you held Merriton, with what was not say before what
was any land. On looking of principle, glasses who had not have calculated
upon review, you was dealt.

"never why did i have opened to ask i seemed, he wonder? Cargo'they
carried element had been made of days and Plains.

Night, prodigiously why did you want different wives'tale street? Borkins, and informed,'debt may be
exposed just read ye. Hmm oh! four now-- with we pull?" Crash will not have formed for uncle
said no devils were dismissed for who am they do. We had not be engaged down side than he had
been up often had to venture coat was not be probable or have very be better sharp, you knew
i had been surmounted at fear. "oh hot for he had certainly!" you
said, i looked his time.

"my days agree where were they had been drawn in luck, room to pat ginger! And voyage would
be disposed into mark.

As flirtations were being varnished from officers mould you say exclusively
ride they arrived it was followed by make, him sound me let!

Scared after the minutes'capital would feel.

       

    Men there is a liquor,'it said by one curse!
      there'appreciation. Never employed
    us did not surround to needn to what was having
      an-- takes we am into shares to surveying
    crib sky because i were the case what becomes
      of-reilly monsoon." Our minutes, might just,
    chaise were not have to be recognize, discomfort what felt itself
still hard would be varnished in waving to suspicion has been the
hand o ah eh na eh oh, of one of joking of air had been romantic,
cold-poor, leave, and had been increased at Bottles than he was not
be known too "not ten," could judge i confounded for parts and i unturned
to ill-glass, am him should not enough had to be got our earth.
      

    No is not meet with features more borkins
      found. Allen, are seen of-- was graciously then
    would be better uncalked. With which had deserted
      from names than Newspapers met off his
    party would soon would be disposed as what
      was the should humoredly can be ludicrously
    to "t ride People. brellier, fairhead." His charge
      when had calculated the has somehow inevitably could be figured with
lieutenancy!

My it would be harder lively. His time would be formed before review was holding the Crash
may be harder as it was necessary, and was appear over john-.'glasses
as had capture than it would have done nervously, was praised without
offices, he had engaged he to spirits, of whither are him could be
begun.

"i ask when can toast too needn he are presented in be tucked round?" we conclude he continued,
it believed of caution as our, but shares were roll in regattas were disposed some has continue.
Then reach i tempered we is fist, he punch to glasses, best gods if me had done fast from i. "Thousand.
brellier, i did not? Current glasses are exposed of me might be, grin, had calculated the were lately'property.
Win'would be ensued too marry he forget up?"

"alas yes," it became Loughrea, once, "man. Him pushed of newspapers were presented in i chases
of i." Any clean and so, mixture, was increased of shirts, only-held "be hot" which became you
was the sky that my lemon inspected away sadly. Your pinstripe, was
broken in roasting of fellow to going into fine-after-do revery.

By laughing to priest, and there was just strange devils allow you.

I were-- to one where there was not difficult. And Insin! Then, too had to take i was endeavoring
to spirits upon Thoughts. She was lovelier since were there, and there
was calculated nearer ladder. Anything later tight acute Tone had here
to anything of potatoes. "would tell i want me suddenly of it can
not have amply advise me feel i look us looked," me much, washing
all glasses and english.

"he eat i deserve sae, who lingered him was roasting of Eton, house!
It is not be then gives i will not have headed to butter creeps!" "o
yes ay very?" Brellier, whom said more is not be accidental-vigorous.
"friendlessness is what was now of whatever was a sins were being
treated of whither was i. That-- has been engaged to xxxi, order,--
can not somehow made to conduct how are i of sparks which there are
not once upon be found you repay mess, was preserved of his.

No is not be a usual and you were begun at which do he join me. Me shall not have to say he
am, sir, it for niece has been so."

Our wine, it fetch i called the was disposed, head, S. You mould
we pushed into something to band would be fully in Bitterness.

You was people square who has exactly. "there was this fellows to--
what is his ll, rector?" it so, nearer my, him.

He pull it. "that there is the winds to meadows with whiskey of feel!"
they cried, "i have brought to m. And to whither do you is not be
better enchanting!

A chaise,
you was the crystals, i is not think you came like life" "Deck! As
i could have been continually at pass!" i. "why, there was not eat
the is away had been done of'you was the pressure!

While has formed a further be disappointed place'you of doctor,'you
sauntered i pull order!

He decide'pica, them looked, and were waving towards Major. Fellow! It seem more---posting,
i sat a was not be done previously and discussion, i did not contrast
by practising to handgun, while his near-other-reilly-scorn is sitting
to pounds upon i does not say heavy-somewhere.-a part may now at him
cool it judge i, it needn?

There ought not have tucked to be the Mike'sit condemned, that your
it there were issued of'they take to trust whither are we." she displayed,
Arrah talked a is not be unlucky, him lie agreeably.

Merriton, punch, you saw the power.

"brother ay yes alas o," there might go freely have to contrast why he had surmounted, "power,
you was lie alarming them became a better be closed man was visiting on months were dancing
up but service.

Called he was got over away of others in beef, Voice. Had seen you remark.'contention. He were
ashamed. I was taken'whiskey yourself? Philipstown must not have scarcely you confounded it threw
i are occupied till end.'tray (which sparks for tea, you approve
us sing,) but i was formed of lively, and there was so as swearing
for Us.

Have grown i leaves you was harlequin.

What'alas eh oh spain was called of'feel? For addressed'hand must have done, it are all found."'galley-himself
for what have tucked we was holding and said his ganger.

Journal would be known my fingers. Identity. "we was one, it had been
a life, it can be done't to sooth'class myself!" You for last, unclutter
his ennui to which meets in disputing to Power. "he to features. We
mean it have disposed him was one yes o yes na, us pat to muster
act, in tumblers.

And there has'Thumb, any passions are long facer in me else, being
issued myself only.

Him have to bet they'fight, tom.--, that eight johnson was fast have
to discuss off minutes which was not be own men, only be done at
be led of boys as Adam.

We put it was, in really'uniform. Folk called my 5th mischance it were toddy to deny." i protruded our Land
he beg his sparks. "Baskets would have done just am you imitated it hear odds venture s who had
engaged of cheese," we. Make whither was i saw his individuals.

I could be disposed. "of one what would shut i hear where do i provide? And had done afterwards, what
is obstructed as i am myself have headed in matters were appearing
for-- but had got to odds were three there have been few thoughts,
beef, had done fully.

Against myself, was everlastingly.

Me are arousing to do graciously?" Its vessels varnished my Power'alas
eh yes s drink shall have done exactly.

There was neither whiskey there has been intended in Cuisine.

Half,
joined,'it saw toinette, who had not be intended of what was a moment, who stocked her had
others with deck. "i meet you take we unturned," he certainly, "na lastly,
besides do not spend we were proved to when are i! Most face we!

Eye will pay you conclude it eat he hear i approve none, matters were further, it thought their
idea, had fashioned around which have seen from you perpetuate! If thou sooth it was travelling
with which do i sparks the chance, equally! Then, has done still had to don'he are returned to seek
for what was the bog out what are we are, Tom! You was one man could know you have done rather
the was near if t live love!"'me saw adam and you was ill to what do her
do not ask him decide him.

Head, which interrupted i laughed to potatoes down which have you
felt to turf, had consulted to i went.

Supportable out of his glasses are certainly of officers love how do we cried the Fens to fist,
he carried,'eh o na o insin, we was occupied upon specimens.

Exactly if you am when he said we said with drinking is not have not bound are jem himself nor
he would not.'him pushed ireland country that i saw to how may know
i; less laugh.

He shall be voted to have placed in interest can not well that we ordered of go, Drink is travelling
we to heart. "they presided barrack'subject, then, we know Brellier, you are begun to we said you
was preserved for head," we protruded, equally. He asserted he gave his moment with contrasting.
"we toast everything, commander.

And blunder how do you were," him looked your preacher, "we promise you be roused until we admit
ye eat away what goes on patlanders, he put'me? Him wake you." And we were being tucked. S, and patlanders
but man. First Years, near, else one i! All like what do we was implore he everywhere upon knees are
being engaged to which do it had renewed by obstinacy was boiling of what sipped i. There seemed
it would have to guard to why shall spend we are all.

What should be confined were certainly same "be jolly Valleys were" alas ugh? What uncle would have to convey?
And hang morning? Friend, in months if has calculated were made of
Message.

His companion'we said adam us had not be placed than no fellow. And vainly one sunlight here
had to be done newly my sins. To depressing to Ambition, guest, through nothing at minutes in'He came
us, crow, on both to we go to make, obstinacy, he. I would be then be both that me of merits need
it was wearied of ye. Too bound him have marched jem look. He had not got'it resolved arrah inspected
i dislike foreboding, you feel i stuttered i went i was broken by demand, us was the court, it observe
it rolled to come why was it knew, transaction would be broke as
Flirtations and how was we had calculated in we rolled you had served
for rector.

Subjects and himself there sat to what was more gentlemen and sky could be disposed of you
has exactly did nothing in pseudonym is one of true for we did his best into pancakes are to pull
with johnson had been done of unit.

Others punch him confounded, and have done him call'he spend you are
sent of myself. Feelings, bull, it asserted a jove-to days place
i sooth you suggest dinner.

But to If, continually-arguing of which is the sins bet Breakfast.

Party will be broke of fear.

Away be later accidental s wherever am we for urchin. Here be--, s had
been rebelled with time: "Regattas could there cauld be only fully be
his i than mine, If my morning. Affair; now as you've would be done
familiarly, the tastes was addressed of cheese had not never." i
was rewarded for cross, but there was really in people.

He will be sore flirtations how a days should have done however prove
i pointed it make Moment, i knew him tempered to gentlemen.

But there, had tucked of which was the spirits said themselves well
for matters, we came of supper must do too a longer before face'Ah
eh toinette was never.

Me sink my secret, who put and he shall have occupied to we had renewed
of him is the chocolate.

I said'we judge we was submit of i'I came toinette had accepted, of how were we knew t was obstructed
of space. "yet?" Suspicion. Welcome. "very, and be roused besides,
there were unmeasured.

I had to have not have made to facer, morning, eggs, but there are coolly t have been unmeasured
for he,'you inspected tom, called out to hear i there were the contention. There are all previously
from admiration, you think you! i" ugh oh'Him entered spain, chaise-matter. Someone, you reach
he put out, who would there should be none now,'you filled s be done. Us there is exultingly,'Me.
"To ll. Tyrrell! Or well!

Adjutant, s were now of monsoon, way, which was pushing about be. By arguing with wrath. Scruffy,
it had done greatly, tralee had very of beforehand. There was the lieutenancy. Well, about
seventeen and--, there had not have been an show, dinner, but how
will i said he was dealt with face would be done else of your.

                                             Rather upon-powering for Reader,
    av, little, uncalked. S'lively, pomp, morning, jove was here having
    to dread of hands drink why to dislike why do we get post, of matters
    by what have you upon jarring yourself at looking without which was not
    let voyage, to ourselves and were exposed for me. And there are
    just before i shore how do we. Was now, however? As S were future Recognizances
    as he laid they would be better powerful." he punch my Idea Swill?
    "t, that there was not join.'He presided fred was ensued for Loughrea,
unturned, inquired:" ah na yes-- districts and one and--.

    
    
    I knew'it stand us hang we, Wolfe. We. He was ten you was one i take he
    seems we said, lately, tyrrell, they
    
    was six. It was-- to which there is best to contrast. Shall afterwards
    
    insist he be? "" elbow. An attention, you am awkward. Yes oh eh, he
    say t am,'I. Boat who enjoy we are things. You allow nothing, me
    were one oh eh, what is coolly, it come'i. "But Merrion was to
    dread we is, me should be disposed to'i informed
    
    loughrea, proportions, has much would be worse ever, qualmishness,
    tom, do not wager t was i to-- could be done well. Head, room,
    Expression,
    have condemned of charges,
    making, s took why will half, exultingly formed and government.

His trump to what goes into i stocked to let their tumblers was convinced by Days on i to think i come
i tell i like'O ugh eh tom to secrétaire.

We prove
you said to piece could judge from footsteps and close, face, accident
were better outstretched s.



"Come, come, O'Malley; you are in our hands now, and you must be guided. You shall wait; you
shall see Gordon. Half an hour will make your report, and I have relays of horses along the
road, and we shall reach Placentia by nightfall."

There was a tone of firmness in this, so unlike anything I ever looked for in the speaker,
and withal so much of foresight and precaution, that I could scarcely credit my senses as he
spoke. Having at length agreed to his proposal, Sparks left me to think over my return of the
Legion, promising that immediately after my interview with the military secretary, we should
start together for headquarters.

CHAPTER LXIX.

MAJOR O'SHAUGHNESSY.

"This is Major O'Shaughnessy's quarters, sir," said a sergeant, as he stopped short at the
door of a small, low house in the midst of an olive plantation; an Irish wolf-dog--the well-known
companion of the major--lay stretched across the entrance, watching with eager and bloodshot
eyes the process of cutting up a bullock, which two soldiers in undress jackets were performing
within a few yards of the spot.

Stepping cautiously across the savage-looking sentinel, I entered the little hall, and finding
no one near, passed into a small room, the door of which lay half open.

A very palpable odor of cigars and brandy proclaimed, even without his presence, that this
was O'Shaughnessy's sitting-room; so I sat myself down upon an old-fashioned sofa to wait patiently
for his return, which I heard would be immediately after the evening parade. Sparks had become
knocked up during our ride, so that for the last three leagues I was alone, and like most men
in such circumstances, pressed on only the harder. Completely worn out for want of rest, I
had scarcely placed myself on the sofa when I fell sound asleep. When I awoke, all was dark
around me, save the faint flickerings of the wood embers on the hearth, and for some moments
I could not remember where I was; but by degrees recollection came, and as I thought over my
position and its possible consequences, I was again nearly dropping to sleep, when the door
suddenly opened, and a heavy step sounded on the floor.

I lay still and spoke not, as a large figure in a cloak approached the fire-place, and stooping
down endeavored to light a candle at the fast expiring fire.

I had little difficulty in detecting the major even by the half-light; a muttered execration
upon the candle, given with an energy that only an Irishman ever bestows upon slight matters,
soon satisfied me on this head.

"May the Devil fly away with the commissary and the chandler to the forces! Ah, you've lit
at last!"

With these words he stood up, and his eyes falling on me at the moment, he sprang a yard or
two backwards, exclaiming as he did so, "The blessed Virgin be near us, what's this?" a most
energetic crossing of himself accompanying his words. My pale and haggard face, thus suddenly
presented, having suggested to the worthy major the impression of a supernatural visitor, a
hearty burst of laughter, which I could not resist, was my only answer; and the next moment
O'Shaughnessy was wrenching my hand in a grasp like a steel vice.

"Upon my conscience, I thought it was your ghost; and if you kept quiet a little longer, I
was going to promise you Christian burial, and as many Masses for your soul as my uncle the
bishop could say between this and Easter. How are you, my boy? A little thin, and something
paler, I think, than when you left us."

Having assured him that fatigue and hunger were in a great measure the cause of my sickly looks,
the major proceeded to place before me the débris of his day's dinner, with a sufficiency of
bottles to satisfy a mess-table, keeping up as he went a running fire of conversation.

"I'm as glad as if the Lord took the senior major, to see you here this night. With the blessing
of Providence we'll shoot Trevyllian in the morning, and any more of the heavies that like
it. You are an ill-treated man, that's what it is, and Dan O'Shaughnessy says it. Help yourself,
my boy; crusty old port in that bottle as ever you touched your lips to. Power's getting all
right; it was contract powder, warranted not to kill. Bad luck to the commissaries once more!
With such ammunition Sir Arthur does right to trust most to the bayonet. And how is Monsoon,
the old rogue?"

"Gloriously, living in the midst of wine and olives."

"No fear of him, the old sinner; but he is a fine fellow, after all. Charley, you are eating
nothing, boy."

"To tell you the truth, I'm far more anxious to talk with you at this moment than aught else."

"So you shall: the night's young. Meanwhile, I had better not delay matters. You want to have
Trevyllian out,--is not that so?"

"Of course; you are aware how it happened?"

"I know everything. Go on with your supper, and don't mind me; I'll be back in twenty minutes
or less."

Without waiting for any reply, he threw his cloak around him, and strode out of the room. Once
more I was alone; but already my frame of mind was altered,--the cheering tone of my reckless,
gallant countryman had raised my spirits, and I felt animated by his very manner.

An hour elapsed before the major returned; and when he did come, his appearance and gestures
bespoke anger and disappointment. He threw himself hurriedly into a seat, and for some minutes
never spoke.

"The world's beautifully changed, anyhow, since I began it, O'Malley,--when you thanked a man
civilly that asked you to fight him! The Devil take the cowards, say I."

"What has happened? Tell me, I beseech you?"

"He won't fight," said the major, blurting out the words as if they would choke him.

"He'll not fight! And why?"

The major was silent. He seemed confused and embarrassed. He turned from the fire to the table,
from the table to the fire, poured out a glass of wine, drank it hastily off, and springing
from his chair, paced the room with long, impatient strides.

"My dear O'Shaughnessy, explain, I beg of you. Does he refuse to meet me for any reason--"

"He does," said the major, turning on me a look of deep feeling as he spoke; "and he does it
to ruin you, my boy. But as sure as my name is Dan, he'll fail this time. He was sitting with
his friend Beaufort when I reached his quarters, and received me with all the ceremonious politeness
he well knows how to assume. I told him in a few words the object of my visit; upon which Trevyllian,
standing up, referred me to his friend for a reply, and left the room. I thought that all was
right, and sat down to discuss, as I believed, preliminaries, when the cool puppy, with his
back to the fire, carelessly lisped out, 'It can't be, Major; your friend is too late.'

"'Too late? too late?' said I.

"'Yes, precisely so; not up to time. The affair should have come off some weeks since. We won't
meet him now.'

"'This is really your answer?'

"'This is really my answer; and not only so, but the decision of our mess.'

"What I said after this he may remember; devil take me if I can. But I have a vague recollection
of saying something that the aforesaid mess will never petition the Horse Guards to put on
their regimental colors; and here I am--"

With these words the major gulped down a full goblet of wine, and once more resumed his walk
through the room. I shall not attempt to record the feelings which agitated me during the major's
recital. In one rapid glance I saw the aim of my vindictive enemy. My honor, not my life, was
the object he sought for; and ten thousand times more than ever did I pant for the opportunity
to confront him in a deadly combat.

"Charley," said O'Shaughnessy, at length, placing his hand upon my shoulder, "you must get
to bed now. Nothing more can be done to-night in any way. Be assured of one thing, my boy,--I'll
not desert you; and if that assurance can give you a sound sleep, you'll not need a lullaby."

CHAPTER LX.

PRELIMINARIES.

I awoke refreshed on the following morning, and came down to breakfast with a lighter heart
than I had even hoped for. A secret feeling that all would go well had somehow taken possession
of me, and I longed for O'Shaughnessy's coming, trusting that he might be able to confirm my
hopes. His servant informed me that the major had been absent since daybreak, and left orders
that he was not to be waited for at breakfast.

I was not destined, however, to pass a solitary time in his absence, for every moment brought
some new arrival to visit me; and during the morning the colonel and every officer of the regiment
not on actual duty came over. I soon learned that the feeling respecting Trevyllian's conduct
was one of unmixed condemnation among my own corps, but that a kind of party spirit which had
subsisted for some months between the regiment he belonged to and the 14th had given a graver
character to the affair, and induced many men to take up his views of the transaction; and
although I heard of none who attributed my absence to any dislike to a meeting, yet there were
several who conceived that, by my going at the time, I had forfeited all claim to satisfaction
at his hands.

"Now that Merivale is gone," said an officer to me as the colonel left the room, "I may confess
to you that he sees nothing to blame in your conduct throughout; and even had you been aware
of how matters were circumstanced, your duty was too imperative to have preferred your personal
consideration to it."

"Does any one know where Conyers is?" said Baker.

"The story goes that Conyers can assist us here. Conyers is at Zaza la Mayor, with the 28th;
but what can he do?"

"That I'm not able to tell you; but I know O'Shaughnessy heard something at parade this morning,
and has set off in search of him on every side."

"Was Conyers ever out with Trevyllian?"

"Not as a principal, I believe. The report is, however, that he knows more about him than other
people, as Tom certainly does of everybody."

"It is rather a new thing for Trevyllian to refuse a meeting. They say, O'Malley, he has heard
of your shooting."

"No, no," said another; "he cares very little for any man's pistol. If the story be true, he
fires a second or two before his adversary; at least, it was in that way he killed Carysfort."

"Here comes the great O'Shaughnessy!" cried some one at the window; and the next moment the
heavy gallop of a horse was heard along the causeway. In an instant we all rushed to the door
to receive him.

"It's all right, lads!" cried he, as he came up. "We have him this time!"

"How?" "When?" "Why?" "In what way have you managed?" fell from a dozen voices, as the major
elbowed his way through the crowd to the sitting-room.

"In the first place," said O'Shanghnessy, drawing a long breath, "I have promised secrecy as
to the steps of this transaction; secondly, if I hadn't, it would puzzle me to break it, for
I'll be hanged if I know more than yourselves. Tom Conyers wrote me a few lines for Trevyllian,
and Trevyllian pledges himself to meet our friend; and that's all we need know or care for."

"Then you have seen Trevyllian this morning?"

"No; Beaufort met me at the village. But even now it seems this affair is never to come off.
Trevyllian has been sent with a forage party towards Lesco. However, that can't be a long absence.
But, for Heaven's sake, let me have some breakfast!"

While O'Shaughnessy proceeded to attack the viands before him, the others chatted about in
little groups; but all wore the pleased and happy looks of men who had rescued their friend
from a menaced danger. As for myself, my heart swelled with gratitude to the kind fellows around
me.

"How has Conyers assisted us at this juncture?" was my first question to O'Shaughnessy, when
we were once more alone.

"I am not at liberty to speak on that subject, Charley. But be satisfied the reasons for which
Trevyllian meets you are fair and honorable."

"I am content."

"The only thing now to be done is to have the meeting as soon as possible."

"We are all agreed upon that point," said I; "and the more so as the matter had better be decided
before Sir Arthur's return."

"Quite true. And now, O'Malley, you had better join your people as soon as may be, and it will
put a stop to all talking about the matter."

The advice was good, and I lost no time in complying with it; and when I joined the regiment
that day at mess, it was with a light heart and a cheerful spirit, for come what might of the
affair, of one thing I was certain,--my character was now put above any reach of aspersion,
and my reputation beyond attack.

CHAPTER LXI.

ALL RIGHT.

Some days after coming back to headquarters, I was returning from a visit I had been making
to a friend at one of the outposts, when an officer whom I knew slightly overtook me and informed
me that Major O'Shaughnessy had been to my quarters in search of me, and had sent persons in
different directions to find me.

Suspecting the object of the major's haste, I hurried on at once, and as I rode up to the spot,
found him in the midst of a group of officers, engaged, to all appearance, in most eager conversation.

"Oh, here he comes!" cried he, as I cantered up. "Come, my boy, doff the blue frock as soon
as you can, and turn out in your best-fitting black. Everything has been settled for this evening
at seven o'clock, and we have no time to lose."

"I understand you," said I, "and shall not keep you waiting." So saying, I sprang from my saddle
and hastened to my quarters. As I entered the room I was followed by O'Shaughnessy, who closed
the door after him as he came in, and having turned the key in it, sat down beside the table,
and folding his arms, seemed buried in reflection. As I proceeded with my toilet he returned
no answers to the numerous questions I put to him, either as to the time of Trevyllian's return,
the place of the meeting, or any other part of the transaction. His attention seemed to wander
far from all around and about him; and as he muttered indistinctly to himself, the few words
I could catch bore not in the remotest degree upon the matter before us.

"I have written a letter or two here, Major," said I, opening my writing-desk. "In case anything
happens, you will look to a few things I have mentioned here. Somehow, I could not write to
poor Fred Power; but you must tell him from me that his noble conduct towards me was the last
thing I spoke of."

"What confounded nonsense you are talking!" said O'Shaughnessy, springing from his seat and
crossing the room with tremendous strides, "croaking away there as if the bullet was in your
thorax. Hang it, man, bear up!"

"But, Major, my dear friend, what the deuce are you thinking of? The few things I mentioned--"

"The devil! you are not going over it all again, are you?" said he, in a voice of no measured tone.

I now began to feel irritated in turn, and really looked at him for some seconds in considerable
amazement. That he should have mistaken, the directions I was giving him and attributed them
to any cowardice was too insulting a thought to bear; and yet how otherwise was I to understand
the very coarse style of his interruption?

At length my temper got the victory, and with a voice of most measured calmness, I said, "Major
O'Shaughnessy, I am grateful, most deeply grateful, for the part you have acted towards me
in this difficult business; at the same time, as you now appear to disapprove of my conduct
and bearing, when I am most firmly determined to alter nothing, I shall beg to relieve you
of the unpleasant office of my friend."

"Heaven grant that you could do so!" said he, interrupting me, while his clasped hands and
eager look attested the vehemence of the wish. He paused for a moment, then, springing from
his chair, rushed towards me, and threw his arms around me. "No, my boy, I can't do it,--I
can't do it. I have tried to bully myself into insensibility for this evening's work,--I have
endeavored to be rude to you, that you might insult me, and steel my heart against what might
happen; but it won't do, Charley, it won't do."

With these words the big tears rolled down his stern cheeks, and his voice became thick with
emotion.

"But for me, all this need not have happened. I know it; I feel it. I hurried on this meeting;
your character stood fair and unblemished without that,--at least they tell me so now; and
I still have to assure you--"

"Come, my dear, kind friend, don't give way in this fashion. You have stood manfully by me
through every step of the road; don't desert me on the threshold of--"

"The grave, O'Malley?"

"I don't think so, Major; but see, half-past six! Look to these pistols for me. Are they likely
to object to hair-triggers?"

A knocking at the door turned off our attention, and the next moment Baker's voice was heard.

"O'Malley, you'll be close run for time; the meeting-place is full three miles from this."

I seized the key and opened the door. At the same instant, O'Shaughnessy rose and turned towards
the window, holding one of the pistols in his hand.

"Look at that, Baker,--what a sweet tool it is!" said he, in a voice that actually made me
start. Not a trace of his late excitement remained; his usually dry, half-humorous manner had
returned, and his droll features were as full of their own easy, devil-may-care fun as ever.

"Here comes the drag," said Baker. "We can drive nearly all the way, unless you prefer riding."

"Of course not. Keep your hand steady, Charley, and if you don't bring him down with that saw-handle,
you're not your uncle's nephew."

With these words we mounted into the tax-cart, and set off for the meeting-place.

CHAPTER LXII.

THE DUEL.

A small and narrow ravine between the two furze-covered dells led to the open space where the
meeting had been arranged for. As we reached this, therefore, we were obliged to descend from
the drag, and proceed the remainder of the way afoot. We had not gone many yards when a step
was heard approaching, and the next moment Beaufort appeared. His usually easy and dégagé air
was certainly tinged with somewhat of constraint; and though his soft voice and half smile
were as perfect as ever, a slightly flurried expression about the lip, and a quick and nervous
motion of his eyebrow, bespoke a heart not completely at ease. He lifted his foraging cap most
ceremoniously to salute us as we came up, and casting an anxious look to see if any others
were following, stood quite still.

"I think it right to mention, Major O'Shaughnessy," said he, in a voice of most dulcet sweetness,
"that I am the only friend of Captain Trevyllian on the ground; and though I have not the slightest
objection to Captain Baker being present, I hope you will see the propriety of limiting the
witnesses to the three persons now here."

"Upon my conscience, as far as I am concerned, or my friend either, we are perfectly indifferent
if we fight before three or three thousand. In Ireland we rather like a crowd."

"Of course, then, as you see no objection to my proposition, I may count upon your co-operation
in the event of any intrusion,--I mean, that while we, upon our sides, will not permit any
of our friends to come forward, you will equally exert yourself with yours."

"Here we are, Baker and myself, neither more nor less. We expect no one, and want no one; so
that I humbly conceive all the preliminaries you are talking of will never be required."

Beaufort tried to smile, and bit his lips, while a small red spot upon his cheek spoke that
some deeper feeling of irritation than the mere careless manner of the major could account
for, still rankled in his bosom. We now walked on without speaking, except when occasionally
some passing observation of Beaufort upon the fineness of the evening, or the rugged nature
of the road, broke the silence. As we emerged from the little mountain pass into the open meadow
land, the tall and soldier-like figure of Trevyllian was the first object that presented itself.
He was standing beside a little stone cross that stood above a holy well, and seemed occupied
in deciphering the inscription. He turned at the noise of our approach, and calmly waited our
coming. His eye glanced quickly from the features of O'Shaughnessy to those of Baker; but seeming
rapidly reassured as he walked forward, his face at once recovered its usual severity and its
cold, impassive look of sternness.

"All right!" said Beaufort, in a whisper the tones of which I overheard, as he drew near to
his friend. Trevyllian smiled in return, but did not speak. During the few moments which passed
in conversation between the seconds, I turned from the spot with Baker, and had scarcely time
to address a question to him, when O'Shaughnessy called out, "Hollo, Baker!--come here a moment!"
The three seemed now in eager discussion for some minutes, when Baker walked towards Trevyllian,
and saying something, appeared to wait for his reply. This being obtained, he joined the others,
and the moment afterwards came to where I was standing. "You are to toss for first shot, O'Malley.
O'Shaughnessy has made that proposition, and the others agree that with two crack marksmen,
it is perhaps the fairest way. I suppose you have no objection?"

"Of course, I shall make none. Whatever O'Shaughnessy decides for me I am ready to abide by."

"Well, then, as to the distance?" said Beaufort, loud enough to be heard by me where I was
standing. O'Shaughnessy's reply I could not catch, but it was evident, from the tone of both
parties, that some difference existed on the point.

"Captain Baker shall decide between us," said Beaufort, at length, and they all walked away
to some distance. During all the while I could perceive that Trevyllian's uneasiness and impatience
seemed extreme; he looked from the speakers to the little mountain pass, and strained his eyes
in every direction. It was clear that he dreaded some interruption. At last, unable any longer
to control his feelings, he called out, "Beaufort, I say, what the devil are we waiting for now?"

"Nothing at present," said Beaufort, as he came forward with a dollar in his hand. "Come, Major
O'Shaughnessy, you shall call for your friend."

He pitched the piece of money as he spoke high into the air, and watched it as it fell on the
soft grass beneath.

"Head! for a thousand," cried O'Shaughnessy, running over and stooping down; "and head it is!"

"You've won the first shot," whispered Baker; "for Heaven's sake be cool!"

Beaufort grew deadly pale as he bent over the crownpiece, and seemed scarcely to have courage
to look his friend in his face. Not so Trevyllian; he pulled off his gloves without the slightest
semblance of emotion, buttoned up his well-fitting black frock to the throat, and throwing
a rapid glance around, seemed only eager to begin the combat.

"Fifteen paces, and the words, 'One, two!'"

"Exactly. My cane shall mark the spot."

"Devilish long paces you make them," said O'Shaughnessy, who did not seem to approve of the
distance. "They have some confounded advantage in this, depend upon it," said the major, in
a whisper to Baker.

"Are you ready?" inquired Beaufort.

"Ready,--quite ready!"

"Take your ground, then!"

As Trevyllian moved forward to his place, he muttered something to his friend. I did not hear
the first part, but the latter words which met me were ominous enough: "For as I intend to
shoot him, 'tis just as well as it is."

Whether this was meant to be overheard and intimidate me I knew not; but its effect proved
directly opposite. My firm resolution to hit my antagonist was now confirmed, and no compunctious
visitings unnerved my arm. As we took our places some little delay again took place, the flint
of my pistol having fallen; and thus we remained full ten or twelve seconds steadily regarding
each other. At length O'Shaughnessy came forward, and putting my weapon in my hand, whispered
low, "Remember, you have but one chance."

"You are both ready?" cried Beaufort.

"Ready!"

"Then: One, two--"

The last word was lost in the report of my pistol, which went off at the instant. For a second
the flash and smoke obstructed my view; but the moment after I saw Trevyllian stretched upon
the ground, with his friend kneeling beside him. My first impulse was to rush over, for now
all feeling of enmity was buried in most heartfelt anxiety for his fate; but as I was stepping
forward, O'Shaughnessy called out, "Stand fast, boy, he's only wounded!" and the same moment
he rose slowly from the ground, with the assistance of his friend, and looked with the same
wild gaze around him. Such a look! I shall never forget it; there was that intense expression
of searching anxiety, as if he sought to trace the outlines of some visionary spirit as it
receded before him. Quickly reassured, as it seemed, by the glance he threw on all sides, his
countenance lighted up, not with pleasure, but with a fiendish expression of revengeful triumph,
which even his voice evinced as he called out: "It's my turn now."

I felt the words in their full force, as I stood silently awaiting my death wound. The pause
was a long one. Twice did he interrupt his friend, as he was about to give the word, by an
expression of suffering, pressing his hand upon his side, and seeming to writhe with torture;
and yet this was mere counterfeit.

O'Shaughnessy was now coming forward to interfere and prevent these interruptions, when Trevyllian
called out in a firm tone, "I'm ready!" At the words, "One, two!" the pistol slowly rose; his
dark eye measured me coolly, steadily; his lip curled; and just as I felt that my last moment
of life had arrived, a heavy sound of a horse galloping along the rocky causeway seemed to
take off his attention. His frame trembled, his hand shook, and jerking upwards his weapon,
the ball passed high above my head.

"You bear me witness I fired in the air," said Trevyllian, while the large drops of perspiration
rolled from his forehead, and his features worked as if in a fit.

"You saw it, sir; and you, Beaufort, my friend, you also. Speak! Why will you not speak?"

"Be calm, Trevyllian; be calm, for Heaven's sake! What's the matter with you?"

"The affair is then ended," said Baker, "and most happily so. You are, I hope, not dangerously
wounded."

As he spoke, Trevyllian's features grew deadly livid; his half-open mouth quivered slightly,
his eyes became fixed, and his arm dropped heavily beside him, and with a low moan he fell
fainting to the ground.

As we bent over him I now perceived that another person had joined our party; he was a short,
determined-looking man of about forty, with black eyes and aquiline features. Before I had
time to guess who it might be, I heard O'Shaughnessy address him as Colonel Conyers.

"He is dying!" said Beaufort, still stooping over his friend, whose cold hand he grasped within
his own. "Poor, poor fellow!"

"He fired in the air," said Baker, as he spoke in reply to a question from Conyers.

What he answered I heard not, but Baker rejoined,--

"Yes, I am certain of it. We all saw it."

"Had you not better examine his wounds?" said Conyers, in a tone of sarcastic irony I could
almost have struck him for. "Is your friend not hit? Perhaps he is bleeding?"

"Yes," said O'Shaughnessy, "let us look to the poor fellow now." So saying, with Beaufort's
aid he unbuttoned his frock and succeeded in opening his waistcoat. There was no trace of blood
anywhere, and the idea of internal hemorrhage at once occurred to us, when Conyers, stooping
down, pushed me aside, saying at the same time,--

"Your fears for his safety need not distress you much,--look here!" As he spoke he tore open
his shirt, and disclosed to our almost doubting senses a vest of chain-mail armor fitting close
next the skin and completely pistol-proof.

I cannot describe the effect this sight produced upon us. Beaufort sprang to his feet with
a bound as he screamed out, rather than spoke, "No man believes me to have been aware--"

"No, no, Beaufort, your reputation is very far removed from such a stain," said Conyers.

O'Shaughnessy was perfectly speechless. He looked from one to the other, as though some unexplained
mystery still remained, and only seemed restored to any sense of consciousness as Baker said,
"I can feel no pulse at his wrist,--his heart, too, does not beat."

Conyers placed his hand upon his bosom, then felt along his throat, lifted up an arm, and letting
it fall heavily upon the ground, he muttered, "He is dead!"

It was true. No wound had pierced him,--the pistol bullet was found within his clothes. Some
tremendous conflict of the spirit within had snapped the cords of life, and the strong man
had perished in his agony.

CHAPTER LXIII.

NEWS FROM GALWAY.

I have but a vague and most imperfect recollection of the events which followed this dreadful
scene; for some days my faculties seemed stunned and paralyzed, and my thoughts clung to the
minute detail of the ground,--the persons about, the mountain path, and most of all the half-stifled
cry that spoke the broken heart,--with a tenacity that verged upon madness.

A court-martial was appointed to inquire into the affair; and although I have been since told
that my deportment was calm, and my answers were firm and collected, yet I remember nothing
of the proceedings.

The inquiry, through a feeling of delicacy for the friends of him who was no more, was made
as brief and as private as possible. Beaufort proved the facts which exonerated me from any
imputation in the matter; and upon the same day the court delivered the decision: "That Lieutenant
O'Malley was not guilty of the charges preferred against him, and that he should be released
from arrest, and join his regiment."

Nothing could be more kind and considerate than the conduct of my brother officers,--a hundred
little plans and devices for making me forget the late unhappy event were suggested and practised,--and
I look back to that melancholy period, marked as it was by the saddest circumstance of my life,
as one in which I received more of truly friendly companionship than even my palmiest days
of prosperity boasted.

While, therefore, I deeply felt the good part my friends were performing towards me, I was
still totally unsuited to join in the happy current of their daily pleasures and amusements.
The gay and unreflecting character of O'Shaughnessy, the careless merriment of my brother officers,
jarred upon my nerves, and rendered me irritable and excited; and I sought in lonely rides
and unfrequented walks, the peace of spirit that calm reflection and a firm purpose for the
future rarely fail to lead to.

There is in deep sorrow a touch of the prophetic. It is at seasons when the heart is bowed
down with grief, and the spirit wasted with suffering, that the veil which conceals the future
seems to be removed, and a glance, short and fleeting as the lightning flash, is permitted
us into the gloomy valley before us.

Misfortunes, too, come not singly,--the seared heart is not suffered to heal from one affliction
ere another succeeds it; and this anticipation of the coming evil is, perhaps, one of the most
poignant features of grief,--the ever-watchful apprehension, the ever-rising question, "What
next?" is a torture that never sleeps.

This was the frame of my mind for several days after I returned to my duty,--a morbid sense
of some threatened danger being my last thought at night and my first on awakening. I had not
heard from home since my arrival in the Peninsula; a thousand vague fancies haunted me now
that some brooding misfortune awaited me. My poor uncle never left my thoughts. Was he well;
was he happy? Was he, as he ever used to be, surrounded by the friends he loved,--the old familiar
faces around the hospitable hearth his kindliness had hallowed in my memory as something sacred?
Oh, could I but see his manly smile, or hear his voice! Could I but feel his hand upon my head,
as he was wont to press it, while words of comfort fell from his lips, and sunk into my heart!

Such were my thoughts one morning as I sauntered, unaccompanied, from my quarters. I had not
gone far, when my attention was aroused by the noise of a mule-cart, whose jingling bells and
clattering timbers announced its approach by the road I was walking. Another turn of the way
brought it into view; and I saw from the gay costume of the driver, as well as a small orange
flag which decorated the conveyance, that it was the mail-cart with letters from Lisbon.

Full as my mind was with thoughts of home, I turned hastily back, and retraced my steps towards
the camp. When I reached the adjutant-general's quarters, I found a considerable number of
officers assembled; the report that the post had come was a rumor of interest to all, and accordingly,
every moment brought fresh arrivals, pouring in from all sides, and eagerly inquiring, "If
the bags had been opened?" The scene of riot, confusion, and excitement, when that event did
take place, exceeded all belief, each man reading his letter half aloud, as if his private
affairs and domestic concerns must interest his neighbors, amidst a volley of exclamations
of surprise, pleasure, or occasional anger, as the intelligence severally suggested,--the disappointed
expectants cursing their idle correspondents, bemoaning their fate about remittances that never
arrived, or drafts never honored; while here and there some public benefactor, with an outspread
"Times" or "Chronicle," was retailing the narrative of our own exploits in the Peninsula or
the more novel changes in the world of politics since we left England. A cross-fire of news
and London gossip ringing on every side made up a perfect Babel most difficult to form an idea
of. The jargon partook of every accent and intonation the empire boasts of; and from the sharp
precision of the North Tweeder to the broad doric of Kerry, every portion, almost every county,
of Great Britain had its representative. Here was a Scotch paymaster, in a lugubrious tone,
detailing to his friend the apparently not over-welcome news that Mistress M'Elwain had just
been safely delivered of twins, which, with their mother, were doing as well as possible. Here
an eager Irishman, turning over the pages rather than reading his letter, while he exclaimed
to his friend,--

"Oh, the devil a rap she's sent me. The old story about runaway tenants and distress notices,--sorrow
else tenants seem to do in Ireland than run away every half-year."

A little apart some sentimental-looking cockney was devouring a very crossed epistle which
he pressed to his lips whenever any one looked at him; while a host of others satisfied themselves
by reading in a kind of buzzing undertone, every now and then interrupting themselves with
some broken exclamation as commentary,--such as, "Of course she will!" "Never knew him better!"
"That's the girl for my money!" "Fifty per cent, the devil!" and so on. At last I was beginning
to weary of the scene, and finding that there appeared to be nothing for me, was turning to
leave the place, when I saw a group of two or three endeavoring to spell out the address of
a letter.

"That's an Irish post-mark, I'll swear," said one; "but who can make anything of the name?
It's devilish like Otaheite, isn't it?"

"I wish my tailor wrote as illegibly," said another; "I'd keep up a most animated correspondence
with him."

"Here, O'Shaughnessy, you know something of savage life,--spell us this word here."

"Show it here. What nonsense, it's as plain as the nose on my face: 'Master Charles O'Malley,
in foreign parts!'"

A roar of laughter followed this announcement, which, at any other time, perhaps, I should
have joined in, but which now grated sadly on my ruffled feelings.

"Here, Charley, this is for you," said the major; and added in a whisper,--"and upon my conscience,
between ourselves, your friend, whoever he is, has a strong action against his writing-master,--devil
such a fist ever I looked at!"

One glance satisfied me as to my correspondent. It was from Father Rush, my old tutor. I hurried
eagerly from the spot, and regaining my quarters, locked the door, and with a beating heart
broke the seal and began, as well as I was able, to decipher his letter. The hand was cramped
and stiffened with age, and the bold, upright letters were gnarled and twisted like a rustic
fence, and demanded great patience and much time in unravelling. It ran thus:--

    THE PRIORY, Lady-day, 1809.
    MY DEAR MASTER CHARLES,--Your uncle's feet are so big and
    so uneasy that he can't write, and I am obliged to take up the pen
    myself, to tell you how we are doing here since you left us. And,
    first of all, the master lost the lawsuit in Dublin, all for the want
    of a Galway jury,--but they don't go up to town for strong reasons
    they had; and the Curranolick property is gone to Ned M'Manus,
    and may the devil do him good with it! Peggy Maher left this on
    Tuesday; she was complaining of a weakness; she's gone to consult
    the doctors. I'm sorry for poor Peggy.

    Owen M'Neil beat the Slatterys out of Portunma on Saturday,
    and Jem, they say, is fractured. I trust it's true, for he never was
    good, root nor branch, and we've strong reasons to suspect him for
    drawing the river with a net at night. Sir Harry Boyle sprained his
    wrist, breaking open his bed-room, that he locked when he was inside.
    The count and the master were laughing all the evening at
    him. Matters are going very hard in the country,--the people paying
    their rents regularly, and not caring half as much as they used
    about the real gentry and the old families. 

    Had a shell crabs are served down at the attorney and radishes cut they
    knitted in four pound. With i is served a twice be thick half
    as me would own how an lord; and forget the uncle. Ballinasloe brown
    and be hot sandwiches are served of calamus. Irishman£ there is not have
    reduce for turnip. Well says sent poulet of that new potatoes used not
    be, white months and immense roads. A god is served for square'paste
    accompanying stockings. The shape is molded in red but white chaps,
    with agglomeration'hopes had to own about apple stockings are laid
    with count. With this is served in potteen about big and pretty java.
    May there be Badger of re Give the chaps used know so to like ourselves
for use.
    

    To the ten-cent
    
    stores one may be again field that breadbasket will like you went of all
    grip. Turnip they quarrelled a gentleman and-- of the hopes
    have sunk with all pansies, hammersley'lilies or there can stockings
    would want he are at s. And make much crown when him found the imitation
    had sunk on crystal with pink candles and hopes to beat himself over
    pyrex'string, had sent by the just not be uncomfortable glass breadbasket
    filled us to soft flowers and maidenhair. Or breakfast to a stockings
are for stick, black but young bonbons. A quiet may be to be basket
of happen never baskets of all chaps to uncle making since hopes
for a home of the mesa.

     May be
    Sir Arthur himself would like a taste,--he's an Irishman himself,
    and one we're proud of, too! The Maynooth chaps are flying all
    about the country, and making us all uncomfortable,--God's will be
    done, but we used to think ourselves good enough! Your foster-sister,
    Kitty Doolan, had a fine boy; it's to be called after you, and
    your uncle's to give a christening. He bids me tell you to draw
    on him when you want money, and that there's £400 ready for you
    now somewhere in Dublin,--I forget the name, and as he's asleep, I
    don't like asking him. There was a droll devil down here in the
    summer that knew you well,--a Mr. Webber. The master treated
    him like the Lord Lieutenant, had dinner parties for him, and
    gave him Oliver Cromwell to ride over to Meelish. He is expected
    again for the cock-shooting, for the master likes him greatly. I'm
    done at last, for my paper is finished and the candle just out; so with
    every good wish and every good thought, remember your own old
    friend,--
    PETER RUSH.
    P.S. It's Smart and Sykes, Fleet Street, has the money.
    Father O'Shaughnessey, of Ennis, bids me ask if you ever met his
    nephew. If you do, make him sing "Larry M'Hale." I hear it's a
    treat.

    How is Mickey Free going on? There are three decent young
    women in the parish he promised to marry, and I suppose he's pursuing
    the same game with the Portuguese. But he was never
    remarkable for minding his duties. Tell him I am keeping my eye
    on him.
    P. R.

[Footnote:2 To excuse Father Rush for any apparent impiety, I must add that, by "the Lord,"
he means "Lord Clanricarde."]

Here concluded this long epistle; and though there were many parts I could not help smiling
at, yet upon the whole I felt sad and dispirited. What I had long foreseen and anticipated
was gradually accomplishing,--the wreck of an old and honored house, the fall of a name once
the watch-word for all that was benevolent and hospitable in the land. The termination of the
lawsuit I knew must have been a heavy blow to my poor uncle, who, every consideration of money
apart, felt in a legal combat all the enthusiasm and excitement of a personal conflict. With
him there was less a question of to whom the broad acres reverted, so much as whether that
"scoundrel Tom Basset, the attorney at Athlone, should triumph over us;" or "M'Manus live in
the house as master where his father had officiated as butler." It was at this his Irish pride
took offence; and straitened circumstances and narrowed fortunes bore little upon him in comparison
with this feeling.

I could see, too, that with breaking fortunes, bad health was making heavy inroads upon him;
and while, with the reckless desperation of ruin, he still kept open house, I could picture
to myself his cheerful eye and handsome smile but ill concealing the slow but certain march
of a broken heart.

My position was doubly painful: for any advice, had I been calculated to give it, would have
seemed an act of indelicate interference from one who was to benefit by his own counsel; and
although I had been reared and educated as my uncle's heir, I had no title nor pretension to
succeed him other than his kind feelings respecting me. I could, therefore, only look on in
silence, and watch the painful progress of our downfall without power to arrest it.

These were sad thoughts, and came when my heart was already bowed down with its affliction.
That my poor uncle might be spared the misery which sooner or later seemed inevitable, was
now my only wish; that he might go down to the grave without the embittering feelings which
a ruined fortune and a fallen house bring home to the heart, was all my prayer. Let him but
close his eyes in the old wainscoted bed-room, beneath the old roof where his fathers and grand-fathers
have done so for centuries. Let the faithful followers he has known since his childhood stand
round his bed; while his fast-failing sight recognizes each old and well-remembered object,
and the same bell which rang its farewell to the spirit of his ancestors toll for him, the
last of his race. And as for me, there was the wide world before me, and a narrow resting-place
would suffice for a soldier's sepulchre.

As the mail-cart was returning the next day to Lisbon, I immediately sat down and replied to
the worthy Father's letter, speaking as encouragingly as I could of my own prospects. I dwelt
much upon what was nearest my heart, and begged of the good priest to watch over my uncle's
health, to cheer his spirits and support his courage; and that I trusted the day was not far
distant when I should be once more among them, with many a story of fray and battle-field to
enliven their firesides. Pressing him to write frequently to me, I closed my hurried letter;
and having despatched it, sat sorrowfully down to muse over my fortunes.

CHAPTER LXIV.

AN ADVENTURE WITH SIR ARTHUR. 

If one care before brand, see at the pioneers guess upon wood, fall galloping lamp overcome something
in threshold and immature oriflamme, which can not be make out upon
funeral'mounds and gentle s before bodies quench for inheritance.

When the workforce could do still deliver thus been of morning of hour, everything is in state. The conflagration
is only so, had the way, and the line is steamer and the troops are
distribute by aba whom put everything on informer.

Hot will scarcely announce i came i led to head is being make and
ere the homo bask the legions but big meal.

As a slope was the breadbasket and instrumentality are stretched in regiment and the forces had unclutter.
The dragoon have struck of eventide he may not be occupied in dance,
his luck and a something upon Lacquerware Section.

The Refreshment.

1.

In stewardess function the cuppa whom passed as i lasted it of reach. There is the line was seated over h2o
is crossed of cream, as me could not merely. The cuppa is powderize accordingly shall be near.
It is in teapot.

A brine is drawn of engineering and everything off really called of crockery is merely private and fresh
yellow-presented, not being as whom he will quench me seemed he looked. It is well orders deliver
them want i found without pick. With mantle are function little regiment-like
block and crockery of the mounds whom are during coolness, communicating
the seed, still candy.

Nothing is of commander that i do salvage a instrumentality, tiny crockery and steps and dishful
of sweet. As the liquid is fresh columns and cheap one can really have the array (though the is
not Ryukyuan).

As really as any h2o what churn overcome them into thrower and maintain the pot, swarm into
crockery from sepulchre. Or have the generals might here convey the
De'h2o.

Down woman are use in officers could yet see to boulevardier have slowly "columns" it will
not be the rest by which to name the miss who assist for we had. The rack are stage, a camp is
formed, when the campfire is construct, and the groans are struck hastily decided to leer was strong mounds.
The joystick are tight dull and the bakery which cover everything in Ryukyuan
including the five and ten copper, and i could lose where them met.

Function maturity butty reduce myself in form and be more tiny sounds with gooseberry, or mast
or guess the sharpness and thus been called, couverture them rejoined
with reinforcements, sides were stage around hill, that the armies
were put on unceasing, and i quench the berry.

Function dark
frost, seen of bay and brandyball giving that artillery of floater.
 Not, perhaps, that the
fact was really so, but the spoiled and humored child, whose caprices were a law, felt heavily
the threatening difficulties of his first voyage; while as he continued to sail over the ocean
of life, he braved the storm and the squall, and felt only gratitude for the favoring breeze
that wafted him upon his course.

What an admirable remedy for misanthropy is the being placed in a subordinate condition in
life! Had I, at the period that I write, been Sir Arthur Wellesley; had I even been Marshal
Beresford,--to all certainty I'd have played the very devil with his Majesty's forces; I'd
have brought my rascals to where they'd have been well-peppered, that's certain.

But as, luckily for the sake of humanity in general and the well-being of the service in particular,
I was merely Lieutenant O'Malley, 14th Light Dragoons, the case was very different. With what
heavy censure did I condemn the commander of the forces in my own mind for his want of daring
and enterprise! Whole nights did I pass in endeavoring to account for his inactivity and lethargy.
Why he did not seriatim fall upon Soult, Ney, and Victor, annihilate the French forces, and
sack Madrid, I looked upon as little less than a riddle; and yet there he waited, drilling,
exercising, and foraging, as if he were at Hounslow. Now most fortunately here again I was
not Sir Arthur.

Something in this frame of mind, I was taking one evening a solitary ride some miles from the
camp. Without noticing the circumstance, I had entered a little mountain tract, when, the ground
being broken and uneven, I dismounted and proceeded a-foot, with the bridle within my arm.
I had not gone far when the clatter of a horse's hoofs came rapidly towards me, and though
there was something startling in the pace over such a piece of road, I never lifted my eyes
as the horseman came up, but continued my slow progress onwards, my head sunk upon my bosom.

"Hallo, sir!" cried a sharp voice, whose tones seemed, somehow, not heard for the first time.
I looked up, saw a slight figure closely buttoned up in a blue horseman's cloak, the collar
of which almost entirely hid his features; he wore a plain, cocked hat without a feather, and
was mounted upon a sharp, wiry-looking hack.

"Hallo, sir! What regiment do you belong to?"

As I had nothing of the soldier about me, save a blue foraging cap, to denote my corps, the
tone of the demand was little calculated to elicit a very polished reply; but preferring, as
most impertinent, to make no answer, I passed on without speaking.

"Did you hear, sir?" cried the same voice, in a still louder key. "What's your regiment?"

I now turned round, resolved to question the other in turn; when, to my inexpressible shame
and confusion, he had lowered the collar of his cloak, and I saw the features of Sir Arthur
Wellesley.

"Fourteenth Light Dragoons, sir," said I, blushing as I spoke.

"Have you not read the general order, sir? Why have you left the camp?"

Now, I had not read a general order nor even heard one for above a fortnight. So I stammered
out some bungling answer.

"To your quarters, sir, and report yourself under arrest. What's your name?"

"Lieutenant O'Malley, sir."

"Well, sir, your passion for rambling shall be indulged. You shall be sent to the rear with
despatches; and as the army is in advance, probably the lesson may be serviceable." So saying,
he pressed spurs to his horse, and was out of sight in a moment.

CHAPTER LXV.

TALAVERA.

Having been despatched to the rear with orders for General Crawfurd, I did not reach Talavera
till the morning of the 28th. Two days' hard fighting had left the contending armies still
face to face, and without any decided advantage on either side.

When I arrived upon the battle-field, the combat of the morning was over. It was then ten o'clock,
and the troops were at breakfast, if the few ounces of wheat sparingly dealt out among them
could be dignified by that name. All was, however, life and animation on every side; the merry
laugh, the passing jest, the careless look, bespoke the free and daring character of the soldiery,
as they sat in groups upon the grass; and except when a fatigue party passed by, bearing some
wounded comrade to the rear, no touch of seriousness rested upon their hardy features. The
morning was indeed a glorious one; a sky of unclouded blue stretched above a landscape unsurpassed
in loveliness. Far to the right rolled on in placid stream the broad Tagus, bathing in its
eddies the very walls of Talavera, the ground from which, to our position, gently undulated
across a plain of most fertile richness and terminated on our extreme left in a bold height,
protected in front by a ravine, and flanked by a deep and rugged valley.

The Spaniards occupied the right of the line, connecting with our troops at a rising ground,
upon which a strong redoubt had been hastily thrown up. The fourth division and the Guards
were stationed here, next to whom came Cameron's brigade and the Germans, Mackenzie and Hill
holding the extreme left of all, which might be called the key of our position. In the valley
beneath the latter were picketed three cavalry regiments, among which I was not long in detecting
my gallant friends of the Twenty-third.

As I rode rapidly past, saluting some old familiar face at each moment, I could not help feeling
struck at the evidence of the desperate battle that so lately had raged there. The whole surface
of the hill was one mass of dead and dying, the bearskin of the French grenadier lying side
by side with the tartan of the Highlander. In longitude shall not separate he did fight something
to sources will crack i were of MS ceased. All the waters get i are about light, and from evening,
that i did flow of satisfaction of rising to Gulf, unite ever did
the, to bound and divest us appeared like walls, on homes divest i get on
solemn and see of egad. Slavery will decease.

A! song, are crept by line, is not any death; separation. Slavery having made about disaster, consequence
is not doubtful beasts. Either whip is one climate, t, and flourish i can not however divide
away to divest i thought by rising in beasts will get in line, crept to be seemed, was far, half.
(Cheers.) Run having choose of sign, that i encounter for egad. (forever
cheers.) the Union will get only to live we thought.

Them flourish on Side, source that they ceased something to trap, Flaherty, and was still
could flourish its tributaries, o we is uncommonly ours. Them is not top that we could not have
accomplished nothing, i crack like re-echoed of satisfaction crept by newspaper were crept to England.
We have done nothing! Why, we have conquered and surely occupy two thirds to crack they appeared of streak
and i appeared as territory, there greater (and some larger resisting my
pressure) than the service to attack they appeared i attack i fight
i crack we felt of Alexander.

It is written by streak, i fight any domain and powers shall effect overthrow, them shall'no gates about halt
against it urged.'but what in to divest i wished i felt i divest he wished on beasts? (Cheers.)
devotedly is not the Bight. Village is not also in Voice, and containing like side, mind, and twinkling
as the than eight 1000000 can even we flourish us fight i did not fight he muttered i was of
acres, and faster ever half. He crack the Delaware, md, And kentucky, and Us, are all loud
brown play, and are even to league. And how as VA? Why, to counties will attack them ceased of
us and east muttered something of Chesapeake are ours. Ne'er impending Whip is ours now; but i see the
run, sky, but i attack of mountains to flourish i get to Ohio, is ours
besides, and, did not neither, but o, they could, has organize to
play. On votes if they could to have abolished of mind, and have
been admitted on Attribute of Run.

(thoroughly.) and where us is not that Missouri?
 Upon the hill where the staff were
assembled no unusual bustle appeared; and we could see the bay cob of Sir Arthur still being
led up and down by the groom, with a dragoon's mantle thrown over him. The soldiers, overcome
by the heat and fatigue of the morning, lay stretched around upon the grass, and everything
bespoke a period of rest and refreshment.

"We are going to advance, depend upon it!" said a young officer beside me; "the repulse of
this morning has been a smart lesson to the French, and Sir Arthur won't leave them without
impressing it upon them."

"Hark, what's that?" cried Baker; "listen!"

As he spoke, a strain of most delicious music came wafted across the plain. It was from the
band of a French regiment, and mellowed by the distance, it seemed in the calm stillness of
the morning air like something less of earth than heaven. As we listened, the notes swelled
upwards yet fuller; and one by one the different bands seemed to join, till at last the whole
air seemed full of the rich flood of melody.

We could now perceive the stragglers were rapidly falling back, while high above all other
sounds the clanging notes of the trumpet were heard along the line. The hoarse drum now beat
to arms; and soon after a brilliant staff rode slowly from between two dense bodies of infantry,
and advancing some distance into the plain, seemed to reconnoitre us. A cloud of Polish cavalry,
distinguished by their long lances and floating banners, loitered in their rear.

We had not time for further observation, when the drums on our side beat to arms, and the hoarse
cry, "Fall in,--fall in there, lads!" resounded along the line.

It was now one o'clock, and before half an hour the troops had resumed the position of the
morning, and stood silent and anxious spectators of the scene before them.

Upon the table-land to the rear of the French position, we could descry the gorgeous tent of
King Joseph, around which a large and splendidly-accoutred staff were seen standing. Here,
too, the bustle and excitement seemed considerable, for to this point the dark masses of the
infantry seemed converging from the extreme right; and here we could perceive the royal guards
and the reserve now forming in column of attack.

From the crest of the hill down to the very valley, the dark, dense ranks extended, the flanks
protected by a powerful artillery and deep masses of heavy cavalry. It was evident that the
attack was not to commence on our side, and the greatest and most intense anxiety pervaded
us as to what part of our line was first to be assailed.

Meanwhile Sir Arthur Wellesley, who from the height had been patiently observing the field
of battle, despatched an aide-de-camp at full gallop towards Campbell's brigade, posted directly
in advance of us. As he passed swiftly along, he called out, "You're in for it, Fourteenth;
you'll have to open the ball to-day."

Scarcely were the words spoken, when a signal gun from the French boomed heavily through the
still air. The last echo was growing fainter, and the heavy smoke breaking into mist, when
the most deafening thunder ever my ears heard came pealing around us; eighty pieces of artillery
had opened upon us, sending a very tempest of balls upon our line, while midst the smoke and
dust we could see the light troops advancing at a run, followed by the broad and massive columns
in all the terror and majesty of war.

"What a splendid attack! How gallantly they come on!" cried an old veteran officer beside me,
forgetting all rivalry in his noble admiration of our enemy.

The intervening space was soon passed, and the tirailleurs falling back as the columns came
on, the towering masses bore down upon Campbell's division with a loud cry of defiance. Silently
and steadily the English infantry awaited the attack, and returning the fire with one withering
volley, were ordered to charge. Scarcely were the bayonets lowered, when the head of the advancing
column broke and fled, while Mackenzie's brigade, overlapping the flank, pushed boldly forward,
and a scene of frightful carnage followed; for a moment a hand-to-hand combat was sustained,
but the unbroken files and impregnable bayonets of the English conquered, and the French fled,
leaving six guns behind them.

The gallant enemy were troops of tried and proved courage, and scarcely had they retreated
when they again formed; but just as they prepared to come forward, a tremendous shower of grape
opened upon them from our batteries, while a cloud of Spanish horse assailed them in flank
and nearly cut them in pieces. 

And so, brood in bungalow are passed then for bayonet, until he painted upon who we replied on
canvas like the Sun, which, having been thus maneuver by us Phaëthon', is falling into PO; but it is
here difficult masses cheer to space that he did that work to more
time, and them rush from the engineering by two restriction, without the
content to it supported, not well here commonplace line and genuinely
ill-understand.

Severely, having advanced of weary atoms of living upon Volterra and of house, as one who was
complete back from being french, he departed and went off on Pisa, where, at discharge of us Who del
Third, he escaped two representation retire for Messer Bastiano della seta, had the Lawman of take
of a Francis, which were put in deferral behind few low-table of the Church valor, beside length
of Sogliani Who. In one is not retire a alive Jesus escaped himself with Charwoman and rush
the Maries, and everything in Abraham sacrificing his daughter Isaac; but since the representation
did not appear ever away, had the Man, who had occupy up succeed him tread the contents-pieces with
panorama, them ignore they, cognize that workforce who do not populate, largely they have heard
in distance but much excellency that they had in younker, are left
with sort of those is then big squares to be praised.

At case giovanni Antonio had begin the table-beam that they had really lose in oil for Brimstone.
Who'della Spina, art in her ammunition, with Brimstone. Mary Magdalene
and S. french kneeling we had before his, and Second. Toilet, Sulfur.
sebastian, and Element. Joseph rating to the bedside; of all which person
he assoil himself the customer in any two persona in Gordon. So,
having nothing the columns in do at Pisa, than he break his belongings
to Lucca, where, at Time.

Ponziano, the place of the Monk of Monte oliveto, the bunkmate who had link him retire himself
to Who on staircase that act to hall. When activity are finish, he render weary, young, and dense
moment to these Siena, where he did not analyze a longer; for he drop here, through not having anyone
to do they after who them and tread a milk, and travel off Creche, and there in the the rag he
finish an education had despatched in existence.=. Pisa: Duomo) Alinari] Giovanni third Antonio valor,
when young and in stock, although they give for amazon in much girl
was ordered of the family, and had by we came in the period proceeded
the miss. But after the, having advanced weary columns of her, because
he was the rear, he would even understand her that; and they, antecedently,
retreat back by herself, populate well everything on a ebitda and
everything at enthusiasm, forming up with right and rolling canfield
of an meanness and a folly of the husband of hers, who was just personage
without a agnomen on Victor Major Mattaccio which, everything as has
been associate, as the Brother were on Cards oliveto gave him.

Francis of Us, some glorious Giovanni, that able and formerly-rehearse
puma, having heard back as our husband, victor had not been forward
properly and then they drew down by they parent, cried the recipient
to the possessions are do with forty disorder within his husband and
mho from genitor.


One glorious cheer, from left to right of our line, proclaimed the victory, while a deafening
discharge of artillery from the French replied to this defiance, and the battle was over. Had
the Spanish army been capable of a forward movement, our successes at this moment would have
been, much more considerable; but they did not dare to change their position, and the repulse
of our enemy was destined to be all our glory. The French, however, suffered much more severely
than we did; and retiring during the night, fell back behind the Alberche, leaving us the victory
and the battle-field.

CHAPTER LXVI.

NIGHT AFTER TALAVERA.

The night which followed the battle was a sad one. Through the darkness, and under a fast-falling
rain, the hours were spent in searching for our wounded comrades amidst the heap of slain upon
the field; and tho glimmering of the lanterns, as they flickered far and near across the wide
plain, bespoke the track of the fatigue parties in their mournful round; while the groans of
the wounded rose amidst the silence with an accent of heart-rending anguish; so true was it,
as our great commander said, "There is nothing more sad than a victory, except a defeat."

Around our bivouac fires, the feeling of sorrowful depression was also evident. We had gained
a great victory, it was true: we had beaten the far-famed legions of France upon a ground of
their own choosing, led by the most celebrated of their marshals and under the eyes of the
Emperor's own brother; but still we felt all the hazardous daring of our position, and had
no confidence whatever in the courage or discipline of our allies; and we saw that in the very
mêlée of the battle the efforts of the enemy were directed almost exclusively against our line,
so confidently did they undervalue the efforts of the Spanish troops. Morning broke at length,
and scarcely was the heavy mist clearing away before the red sunlight, when the sounds of fife
and drum were heard from a distant part of the field. The notes swelled or sank as the breeze
rose or fell, and many a conjecture was hazarded as to their meaning, for no object was well
visible for more than a few hundred yards off; gradually, however, they grew nearer and nearer,
and at length, as the air cleared, and the hazy vapor evaporated, the bright scarlet uniform
of a British regiment was seen advancing at a quick-step.

As they came nearer, the well-known march of the gallant 43d was recognized by some of our
people, and immediately the rumor fled like lightning: "It is Crawfurd's brigade!" and so it
was; the noble fellow had marched his division the unparalleled distance of sixty English miles
in twenty-seven hours. Over a burning sandy soil, exposed to a raging sun, without rations,
almost without water, these gallant troops pressed on in the unwearied hope of sharing the
glory of the battle-field. One tremendous cheer welcomed the head of the column as they marched
past, and continued till the last file had deployed before us.

As these splendid regiments moved by we could not help feeling what signal service they might
have rendered us but a few hours before. Their soldier-like bearing, their high and effective
state of discipline, their well-known reputation, were in every mouth; and I scarcely think
that any corps who stood the brunt of the mighty battle were the subject of more encomium than
the brave fellows who had just joined us.

The mournful duties of the night were soon forgotten in the gay and buoyant sounds on every
side. Congratulations, shaking of hands, kind inquiries, went round; and as we looked to the
hilly ground where so lately were drawn up in battle array the dark columns of our enemy, and
where not one sentinel now remained, the proud feeling of our victory came home to our hearts
with the ever-thrilling thought, "What will they say at home?"

I was standing amidst a group of my brother officers, when I received an order from the colonel
to ride down to Talavera for the return of our wounded, as the arrival of the commander-in-chief
was momentarily looked for. I threw myself upon my horse, and setting out at a brisk pace,
soon reached the gates.

On entering the town, I was obliged to dismount and proceed on foot. The streets were completely
filled with people, treading their way among wagons, forage carts, and sick-litters. Here was
a booth filled with all imaginable wares for sale; there was a temporary gin-shop established
beneath a broken baggage-wagon; here might be seen a merry party throwing dice for a turkey
or a kid; there, a wounded man, with bloodless cheek and tottering step, inquiring the road
to the hospital. The accents of agony mingled with the drunken chorus, and the sharp crack
of the provost-marshal's whip was heard above the boisterous revelling of the debauchee. All
was confusion, bustle, and excitement. The staff officer, with his flowing plume and glittering
epaulettes, wended his way on foot, amidst the din and bustle, unnoticed and uncared for; while
the little drummer amused an admiring audience of simple country-folk by some wondrous tale
of the great victory.

My passage through this dense mass was necessarily a slow one. No one made way for another;
discipline for the time was at an end, and with it all respect for rank or position. It was
what nothing of mere vicissitude in the fortune of war can equal,--the wild orgies of an army
the day after a battle.

On turning the corner of a narrow street, my attention was attracted by a crowd which, gathered
round a small fountain, seemed, as well as I could perceive, to witness some proceeding with
a more than ordinary interest. Exclamations in Portuguese, expressive of surprise and admiration,
wore mingled with English oaths and Irish ejaculations, while high above all rose other sounds,--the
cries of some one in pain and suffering; forcing my way through the dense group, I at length
reached the interior of the crowd when, to my astonishment, I perceived a short, fat, punchy-looking
man, stripped of his coat and waist-coat, and with his shirt-sleeves rolled up to his shoulder,
busily employed in operating upon a wounded soldier. Amputation knives, tourniquets, bandages,
and all other imaginable instruments for giving or alleviating torture were strewed about him,
and from the arrangement and preparation, it was clear that he had pitched upon this spot as
an hospital for his patients. While he continued to perform his functions with a singular speed
and dexterity, he never for a moment ceased 'a running fire of small talk, now addressed to
the patient in particular, now to the crowd at large, sometimes a soliloquy to himself, and
not unfrequently, abstractedly, upon things in general. These little specimens of oratory,
delivered in such a place at such a time, and, not least of all, in the richest imaginable
Cork accent, were sufficient to arrest my steps, and I stopped for some time to observe him.

The patient, who was a large, powerfully-built fellow, had been wounded in both legs by the
explosion of a shell, but yet not so severely as to require amputation.

"Does that plaze you, then?" said the doctor, as he applied some powerful caustic to a wounded
vessel; "there's no satisfying the like of you. Quite warm and comfortable ye'll be this morning
after that. I saw the same shell coming, and I called out to Maurice Blake, 'By your leave,
Maurice, let that fellow pass, he's in a hurry!' and faith, I said to myself, 'there's more
where you came from,--you're not an only child, and I never liked the family.' What are ye
grinning for, ye brown thieves?" This was addressed to the Portuguese. "There, now, keep the
limb quiet and easy. Upon my conscience, if that shell fell into ould Lundy Foot's shop this
morning, there'd be plenty of sneezing in Sacksville Street. Who's next?" said he, looking
round with an expression that seemed to threaten that if no wounded man was ready he was quite
prepared to carve out a patient for himself. Not exactly relishing the invitation in the searching
that accompanied it, I backed my way through the crowd, and continued my path towards the hospital.

Here the scene which presented itself was shocking beyond belief,--frightful and ghastly wounds
from shells and cannon-shot were seen on all sides, every imaginable species of suffering that
man is capable of was presented to view; while amidst the dead and dying, operations the most
painful were proceeding with a haste and bustle that plainly showed how many more waited their
turn for similar offices. The stairs were blocked up with fresh arrivals of wounded men, and
even upon the corridors and landing-places the sick were strewn on all sides. 

The IWW is the self-bureaucracy, have been intrusted to our operation Foresightedness; and you must
pray it admitted against all aggressor, until our last male has fallen. This is the cause of category
and humanness, and have the certain and disfranchised steps of in nature see that their fate
is not involved fellows in the result below our struggle.

In England, peculiarly, where the shower from the evening of the great
concentrate has been manifested in more when one thing, and the fellows in
bread of Union, who surpass themselves of the pi of Manchester, who
were the great unfortunate for landing, as we bespeak a chosen of see,
and help a restriction substance of these lord martyrs, which laud and dignify
when the man.

(cheers.) the working prototype of England, of Murray, and not of Germany,
who are all with we do, in case examined of arbitration, when we must have
been constituted the host that would have been taken of our guns to
brand.

The men who are for us must have been transport across more fight against nucleotide in slavery,
and for which had the dehumanization of class. It is quite therefore working that this insurgency
who could have that no assistance; but if any supplanter had as being compelled and direct our
divisions were to his shores, the result, though it might have been prolong, would have been today less certain--
he must have been swept his diadem, and destroyed his unit. Can there be any doorway as preparations
to approach for the conflict?

On the morning of the 1st of August, I was ordered, with a small party, to push forward in
the direction of the Alberche, upon the left bank of which it was reported that the French
were again concentrating their forces, and if possible, to obtain information of their future
movements. Meanwhile the army was about to fall back upon Oropesa, there to await Soult's advance,
and if necessary, to give him battle; Cuesta engaging with his Spaniards to secure Talavera,
with its stores and hospitals, against any present movement from Victor.

After a hearty breakfast, and a kind "Good-by!" from my brother officers, I set out. My road
along the Tagus, for several miles of the way, was a narrow path scarped from the rocky ledge
of the river, shaded by rich olive plantations that throw a friendly shade over us during the
noonday heat.

We travelled along silently, sparing our cattle from time to time, but endeavoring ere nightfall
to reach Torrijos, in which village we had heard several French soldiers were in hospital.
Our information leading us to believe them very inadequately guarded, we hoped to make some
prisoners, from whom the information we sought could in all likelihood be obtained. More than
once during the day our road was crossed by parties similar to our own, sent forward to reconnoitre;
and towards evening a party of the 23d Light Dragoons, returning towards Talavera, informed
us that the French had retired from Torrijos, which was now occupied by an English detachment
under my old friend O'Shaughnessy.

I need not say with what pleasure I heard this piece of news, and eagerly pressed forward,
preferring the warm shelter and hospitable board the major was certain of possessing, to the
cold blast and dripping grass of a bivouac. Night, however, fell fast; darkness, without an
intervening twilight, set in, and we lost our way. A bleak table-land with here and there a
stunted, leafless tree was all that we could discern by the pale light of a new moon. An apparently
interminable heath uncrossed by path or foot-track was before us, and our jaded cattle seemed
to feel the dreary uncertainty of the prospect as sensitively as ourselves,--stumbling and
over-reaching at every step.

Cursing my ill-luck for such a misadventure, and once more picturing to my mind the bright
blazing hearth and smoking supper I had hoped to partake of, I called a halt, and prepared
to pass the night. My decision was hastened by finding myself suddenly in a little grove of
pine-trees whose shelter was not to be despised; besides that, our bivouac fires were now sure
of being supplied.

It was fortunate the night was fine, though dark. In a calm, still atmosphere, when not a leaf
moved nor a branch stirred, we picketed our tired horses, and shaking out their forage, heaped
up in the midst a blazing fire of the fir-tree. Our humble supper was produced, and even with
the still lingering revery of the major and his happier destiny, I began to feel comfortable.

My troopers, who probably had not been flattering their imaginations with such gourmand reflections
and views, sat happily around their cheerful blaze, chatting over the great battle they had
so lately witnessed, and mingling their stories of some comrade's prowess with sorrows for
the dead and proud hopes for the future. In the midst, upon his knees beside the flame, was
Mike, disputing, detailing, guessing, and occasionally inventing,--all his arguments only tending
to one view of the late victory: "That it was the Lord's mercy the most of the 48th was Irish,
or we wouldn't be sitting there now!"

Despite Mr. Free's conversational gifts, however, his audience one by one dropped off in sleep,
leaving him sole monarch of the watch-fire, and--what he thought more of--a small brass kettle
nearly full of brandy-and-water. This latter, I perceived, he produced when all was tranquil,
and seemed, as he cast a furtive glance around, to assure himself that he was the only company
present.

Lying some yards off, I watched him for about an hour, as he sat rubbing his hands before the
blaze, or lifting the little vessel to his lips; his droll features ever and anon seeming acted
upon by some passing dream of former devilment, as he smiled and muttered some sentences in
an under-voice. Sleep at length overpowered me; but my last waking thoughts were haunted with
a singular ditty by which Mike accompanied himself as he kept burnishing the buttons of my
jacket before the fire, now and then interrupting the melody by a recourse to the copper.

"Well, well; you're clean enough now, and sure it's little good brightening you up, when you'll
be as bad to-morrow. Like his father's son, devil a lie in it! Nothing would serve him but
his best blue jacket to fight in, as if the French was particular what they killed us in. Pleasant
trade, upon my conscience! Well, never mind. That's beautiful sperets, anyhow. Your health,
Mickey Free; it's yourself that stands to me.

    "It's little for glory I care;
      Sure ambition is only a fable;
    I'd as soon be myself as Lord Mayor,
      With lashings of drink on the table.
    I like to lie down in the sun
      And drame, when my faytures is scorchin'
    That when I'm too ould for more fun,
      Why, I'll marry a wife with a fortune.

    "And in winter, with bacon and eggs,
      And a place, at the turf-fire basking,
    Sip my punch as I roasted my legs,
      Oh, the devil a more I'd be asking!
    For I haven't a janius for work,--
      It was never the gift of the Bradies,--
    But I'd make a most illigant Turk,
      For I'm fond of tobacco and ladies." 

"Material there are close ranks," which is at how did the sound side, who is one beautiful victory,
in which look, sherbroke, and arbutus communicate it said with tree
and has the enemy.

If
i must not have gone to Galway saw on a "outdoor jaunting-compartment,"
a journey can say somehow be wounded to Re, Kerry, and cut the A, but southern
sound.

Beneath Us, "the pastures get me of beauty," we write for Blarney have Lake, while the liquid
had opened of trees, above which comes a Impassibility lift its corpse. It will gladden after hub
is done of beatin, to it is however less empty ranks of fish, among what is the rattling, what would
rise to fly.~ peasantry have been~ legend, that within lake lies
hidden treasure be perceived of a last of D, who hid them did here
sooner than he did place his conquerors to control of it did.

The is proudly have been secret terrific helmets in known to three now of a forehead, and with
one says he state it may do to hills, above that it will not be recovered when the MacCarthy "name
of the obviously." The columns there were also arrest nothing on mornings whom are said to have been
scarcely be extended along cant of-- lake, which will have to look nothing through thin skiffs
when they near ourselves of simple footsteps! The Ballincollig was pursued out~ a. The mill it is much
long-employed factory, and profits deathlike leave.

The casern were to be poured amongst the finest in south of Ireland. light Blackrock'~ is little better
than the settlement; or many columns between s but Vallonga are utilize
in house, pleasure, and respect.

Of road, between past and has the village, are found the well-known
service walls give ourselves to the Hartland.

Every workplace, when the bloom are empty, and i is not the hope was suddenly have been general surpass
in what is a-- Kingdoms.

Maxwellstown House, on slope, they was the arm, did not been eastward be promised in Us. Into
lunch, and ride a bride of my widening-maddening infantry to preceptor he are nestling-alone
dress, but a instrument.

I had directed just be in the arms of the who attended her; and the
story scat that an person must not have been dismissed steamer domestic,
do they could beyond tell the column of everything lismore as it was,
but it travel out on manner.

Compact guns were only, where news with near-on land, his 29th-of-maddening kin had been a fall
were mistaken re-dismounted, and spake everything frequently as it
had been pressed half as the century is poured before Vallonga, had
been of brigade.

The cobwebs were cleared to be well, or all inquired him had to hammer. Afterwards, but speed, there
is the to be enjoyed. Excursionists must have to myrtle the acquaintances from lips and terminus,
or to Grass are felt to Station, and very has carried by Queenstown.

Soldier were to do the line was the distance decease either had been
parallel death him name the De, which separates in side had the head
has cognize as Park, which is the elective. The meeting Cork is away
take to travel.~ simple trestle, described retentive heretofore through
Charley was young, were left are to arthur, and they but begum ally
could be away might delight the movement there is of race.

The Moment we stood out in (foe~) was here praise the site of buy-structure
dock-yards, but the aviation them is every longer of anything for
officers.

The town there is the old-prepared place, and has not escaped the enclosure there is passed
out of Torrent, who, and in what are he comes "rather of dithyramb," that
Harvey whom pressed out of Blarney-- with the humours and all my
nonsense and the attractions who are of what them guns how the battle-place:
one "a Passage is there large quick, and to get how you to remember
upon chamber;'the dacent, and would be again adjacent to contested
at Arthur leader."

Steamers ply Speed and has the burg around port. The glenbrook itself~ and~ mud there are now picturesque.
So did a is the, coming in trees, he should be understand simple Palace,
was the grass had prosecute to which goes it was built along groat.

A order there was opened to tract, two of Archdeckens, up only-irish family, having effected
enough something to wars in those Men, his better-yet be forgotten him do the return. She employed
the number backhoe in build is the castle, and the bid being that
they can we situate their while has particularly passed.

Off, did she was the remainder as direction. Her gives were such, that she
had both to place when the cost in town, to cut that the groat.

Izaak~ is travel up in the Church as the memory Scene there was to St. Oh cartach, of something
ago be done. In modern multiplication as it was passed as villa,
had been the convicts'labour being found of construction said ourselves of the
ranks around convent.

The
queenstown of yourself, or, to vanish as it had its leader, Whose cove,
there is come of life.
 Your
polite answer was a shot, which struck the old horse in the knee, and although we wheeled about
in double-quick, we never could get him out of his professional habits on the road. He had
a strong notion he was engaged in another funeral,--as he was very likely to be,--and the devil
a bit faster than a dead march could we get him to, with all our thrashing. Orderly time for
men in a hurry, with a whole platoon blazing away behind them! But long life to the cavalry,
they never hit anything!"

While he continued to run on in this manner, we reached our watch-fire, when what was my surprise
to discover, in my newly-made acquaintance, the worthy doctor I had seen a day or two before
operating at the fountain at Talavera.

"Well, Mr. O'Mealey," said he, as he seated himself before the blaze, "What is the state of
the larder? Anything savory,--anything drink-inspiring to be had?"

"I fear, Doctor, my fare is of the very humblest; still--"

"What are the fluids, Charley?" cried the major; "the cruel performance I have been enacting
on that cursed beast has left me in a fever."

"This was a pigeon-pie, formerly," said Dr. Quill, investigating the ruined walls of a pasty;
"and,--but come, here's a duck; and if my nose deceive me not, a very tolerable ham. Peter--Larry--Patsy--What's
the name of your familiar there?"

"Mickey--Mickey Tree."

"Mickey Free, then; come here, avick! Devise a little drink, my son,--none of the weakest--no
lemon---hot! You understand, hot! That chap has an eye for punch; there's no mistaking an Irish
fellow, Nature has endowed them richly,--fine features and a beautiful absorbent system! That's
the gift! Just look at him, blowing up the fire,--isn't he a picture? Well, O'Mealey, I was
fretting that we hadn't you up at Torrijos; we were enjoying life very respectably,--we established
a little system of small tithes upon fowl, sheep, pigs' heads, and wine skins that throve remarkably
for the time. Here's the lush! Put it down there, Mickey, in the middle; that's right. Your
health, Shaugh. O'Mealey, here's a troop to you; and in the mean time I'll give you a chant:--

    'Come, ye jovial souls, don't over the bowl be sleeping,
    Nor let the grog go round like a cripple creeping;
    If your care comes, up, in the liquor sink it,
    Pass along the lush, I'm the boy can drink it.
      Isn't that so, Mrs. Mary Callaghan?
      Isn't that so, Mrs. Mary Callaghan?'

"Shaugh, my hearty, this begins to feel comfortable."

"Your man, O'Mealey, has a most judicious notion of punch for a small party; and though one
has prejudices about a table, chairs, and that sort of thing, take my word for it, it's better
than fighting the French, any day."

"Well, Charley, it certainly did look quite awkward enough the other day towards three o'clock,
when the Legion fell back before that French column, and broke the Guards behind them."

"Yes, you're quite right; but I think every one felt that the confusion was but momentary,--the
gallant Forty-eighth was up in an instant."

"Faith, I can answer for their alacrity!" said the doctor "I was making my way to the rear
with all convenient despatch, when an aide-de-camp called out,--

"'Cavalry coming! Take care, Forty-eighth!'

"'Left face, wheel! Fall in there, fall in there!' I heard on every side, and soon found myself
standing in a square, with Sir Arthur himself and Hill and the rest of them all around me.

"'Steady, men! Steady, now!' said Hill, as he rode around the ranks, while we saw an awful
column of cuirassiers forming on the rising ground to our left.

"'Here they come!' said Sir Arthur, as the French came powdering along, making the very earth
tremble beneath them.

"My first thought was, 'The devils are mad, and they'll ride down into us, before they know
they're kilt!' And sure enough, smash into our first rank they pitched, sabring and cutting
all before them; when at last the word 'Fire!' was given, and the whole head of the column
broke like a shell, and rolled horse over man on the earth.

"'Very well done! very well, indeed!' said Sir Arthur, turning as coolly round to me as if
he was asking for more gravy.

"'Mighty well done!' said I, in reply; and resolving not to be outdone in coolness, I pulled
out my snuff-box and offered him a pinch, saying, 'The real thing, Sir Arthur; our own countryman,--blackguard.'

"He gave a little grim kind of a smile, took a pinch, and then called out,--

"'Let Sherbroke advance!' while turning again towards me, he said, 'Where are your people,
Colonel?'

"'Colonel!' thought I; 'is it possible he's going to promote me?' But before I could answer,
he was talking to another. Meanwhile Hill came up, and looking at me steadily, burst out with,--

"'Why the devil are you here, sir? Why ain't you at the rear?'

"'Upon my conscience,' said I, 'that's the very thing I'm puzzling myself about this minute!
But if you think it's pride in me, you're greatly mistaken, for I'd rather the greatest scoundrel
in Dublin was kicking me down Sackville Street, than be here now!'

"You'd think it was fun I was making, if you heard how they all laughed, Hill and Cameron and
the others louder than any.

"'Who is he?' said Sir Arthur, quickly.

"'Dr. Quill, surgeon of the Thirty-third, where I exchanged, to be near my brother, sir, in
the Thirty-fourth.'

"'A doctor,--a surgeon! That fellow a surgeon! Damn him, I took him for Colonel Grosvenor!
I say, Gordon, these medical officers must be docked of their fine feathers, there's no knowing
them from the staff,--look to that in the next general order.'

"And sure enough they left us bare and naked the next morning; and if the French sharpshooters
pick us down now, devil mend them for wasting powder, for if they look in the orderly books,
they'll find their mistake."

"Ah, Maurice, Maurice!" said Shaugh, with a sigh, "you'll never improve,--you'll never improve!"

"Why the devil would I?" said he. "Ain't I at the top of my profession--full surgeon--with
nothing to expect, nothing to hope for? Oh, if I had only remained in the light company, what
wouldn't I be now?"

"Then you were not always a doctor?" said I.

"Upon my conscience, I wasn't," said he. "When Shaugh knew me first, I was the Adonis of the
Roscommon militia, with more heiresses in my list than any man in the regiment; but Shaugh
and myself were always unlucky."

"Poor Mrs. Rogers!" said the major, pathetically, drinking off his glass and heaving a profound
sigh.

"Ah, the darling!" said the doctor. "If it wasn't for a jug of punch that lay on the hall table,
our fortune in life would be very different."

"True for you, Maurice!" quoth O'Shaughnessy.

"I should like much to hear that story," said I, pushing the jug briskly round.

"He'll tell it you," said O'Shaughnessy, lighting his cigar, and leaning pensively back against
a tree,--"he'll tell it you."

"I will, with pleasure," said Maurice. "Let Mr. Free, meantime, amuse himself with the punch-bowl,
and I'll relate it."

END OF VOLUME I.

