The sound of the cataract was declared to be the voice of a mighty spirit that dwelt in the
waters, and in former centuries the Indians offered to it a yearly sacrifice. This sacrifice
was a maiden of the tribe, who was sent over in a white canoe, decorated with fruit and flowers,
and the girls contended for this honor, for the brides of Manitou were objects of a special
grace in the happy hunting-grounds. The last recorded sacrifice was in 1679, when Lelawala,
the daughter of chief Eagle Eye, was chosen, in spite of the urgings and protests of the chevalier
La Salle, who had been trying to restrain the people from their idolatries by an exposition
of the Christian dogma. To his protests he received the unexpected answer, "Your words witness
against you. Christ, you say, set us an example. We will follow it. Why should one death be
great, while our sacrifice is horrible?" So the tribe gathered at the bank to watch the sailing
of the white canoe. The chief watched the embarkation with the stoicism usual to the Indian
when he is observed by others, but when the little bark swung out into the current his affection
mastered him, and he leaped into his own canoe and tried to overtake his daughter. In a moment
both were beyond the power of rescue. After their death they were changed into spirits of pure
strength and goodness, and live in a crystal heaven so far beneath the fall that its roaring
is a music to them: she, the maid of the mist; he, the ruler of the cataract. Another version
of the legend makes a lover and his mistress the chief actors. Some years later a patriarch
of the tribe and all his sons went over the fall when the white men had seized their lands,
preferring death to flight or war.

In about the year 200 the Stone Giants waded across the river below the falls on their northward
march. These beings were descended from an ancient family, and being separated from their stock
in the year 150 by the breaking of a vine bridge across the Mississippi, they left that region.
Indian Pass, in the Adirondacks, bore the names of Otneyarheh, Stony Giants; Ganosgwah, Giants
Clothed in Stone; and Dayohjegago, Place Where the Storm Clouds Fight the Great Serpent. Giants
and serpents were held to be harmful inventions of the Evil Spirit, and the Lightning god,
catching up clouds as he stood on the crags, broke them open, tore their lightnings out and
hurled them against the monsters. These cannibals had almost exterminated the Iroquois, for
they were of immense size and had made themselves almost invincible by rolling daily in the
sand until their flesh was like stone. The Holder of the Heavens, viewing their evil actions
from on high, came down disguised as one of their number--he used often to meditate on Manitou
Rock, at the Whirlpool--and leading them to a valley near Onondaga, on pretence of guiding
them to a fairer country, he stood on a hill above them and hurled rocks upon their heads until
all, save one, who fled into the north, were dead. Yet, in the fulness of time, new children
of the Stone Giants (mail-clad Europeans?) entered the region again and were destroyed by the
Great Spirit,--oddly enough where the famous fraud known as the Cardiff giant was alleged to
have been found. The Onondagas believed this statue to be one of their ancient foes.

THE DEFORMED OF ZOAR

The valley of Zoar, in western New York, is so surrounded by hills that its discoverers--a
religious people, who gave it a name from Scripture said, "This is Zoar; it is impregnable.
From her we will never go." And truly, for lack of roads, they found it so hard to get out,
having got in, that they did not leave it. Among the early settlers here were people of a family
named Wright, whose house became a sort of inn for the infrequent traveller, inasmuch as they
were not troubled with piety, and had no scruples against the selling of drink and the playing
of cards at late hours. A peddler passed through the valley on his way to Buffalo and stopped
at the Wright house for a lodging, but before he went to bed he incautiously showed a number
of golden trinkets from his pack and drew a considerable quantity of money out of his pocket
when he paid the fee for his lodging. Hardly had he fallen asleep before his greedy hosts were
in the room, searching for his money. Their lack of caution caused him to awake, and as he
found them rifling his pockets and his pack he sprang up and showed fight.

A blow sent him to the bottom of the stairs, where his attempt to escape was intercepted, and
the family closed around him and bound his arms and legs. They showed him the money they had
taken and asked where he had concealed the rest. He vowed that it was all he had. They insisted
that he had more, and seizing a knife from the table the elder Wright slashed off one of his
toes "to make him confess." No result came from this, and six toes were cut off,--three from
each foot; then, in disgust, the unhappy peddler was knocked on the head and flung through
a trap-door into a shallow cellar. Presently he arose and tried to draw himself out, but with
hatchet and knife they chopped away his fingers and he fell back. Even the women shared in
this work, and leaned forward to gaze into the cellar to see if he might yet be dead. While
listening, they heard the man invoke the curse of heaven on them: he asked that they should
wear the mark of crime even to the fourth generation, by coming into the world deformed and
mutilated as he was then. And it was so. The next child born in that house had round, hoof-like
feet, with only two toes, and hands that tapered from the wrist into a single long finger.
And in time there were twenty people so deformed in the valley: The "crab-clawed Zoarites"
they were called.

HORSEHEADS

The feeling recently created by an attempt to fasten the stupid names of Fairport or of North
Elmira on the village in central New York that, off and on for fifty years, had been called
Horseheads, caused an inquiry as to how that singular name chanced to be adopted for a settlement.
In 1779, when General Sullivan was retiring toward the base of his supplies after a destructive
campaign against the Indians in Genesee County, he stopped near this place and rested his troops.
The country was then rude, unbroken, and still beset with enemies, however, and when the march
was resumed it was thought best to gain time over a part of the way by descending the Chemung
River on rafts.

As there were no appliances for building large floats, and the depth of the water was not known,
the general ordered a destruction of all impedimenta that could be got rid of, and commanded
that the poor and superfluous horses should be killed. His order was obeyed. As soon as the
troops had gone, the wolves, that were then abundant, came forth and devoured the carcasses
of the steeds, so that the clean-picked bones were strewn widely over the camp-ground. When
the Indians ventured back into this region, some of them piled the skulls of the horses into
heaps, and these curious monuments were found by white settlers who came into the valley some
years later, and who named their village Horseheads, in commemoration of these relics. The
Indians were especially loth to leave this region, for their tradition was that it had been
the land of the Senecas from immemorial time, the tribe being descended from a couple that
had a home on a hill near Horseheads.

KAYUTA AND WANETA

The Indians loved our lakes. They had eyes for their beauty, and to them they were abodes of
gracious spirits. They used to say of Oneida Lake, that when the Great Spirit formed the world
"his smile rested on its waters and Frenchman's Island rose to greet it; he laughed and Lotus
Island came up to listen." So they built lodges on their shores and skimmed their waters in
canoes. Much of their history relates to them, and this is a tale of the Senecas that was revived
a few years ago by the discovery of a deer-skin near Lakes Waneta and Keuka, New York, on which
some facts of the history were rudely drawn, for all Indians are artists.

Waneta, daughter of a chief, had plighted her troth to Kayuta, a hunter of a neighboring tribe
with which her people were at war. Their tryst was held at twilight on the farther shore of
the lake from her village, and it was her gayety and happiness, after these meetings had taken
place, that roused the suspicion and jealousy of Weutha, who had marked her for his bride against
the time when he should have won her father's consent by some act of bravery. Shadowing the
girl as she stole into the forest one evening, he saw her enter her canoe and row to a densely
wooded spot; he heard a call like the note of a quail, then an answer; then Kayuta emerged
on the shore, lifted the maiden from her little bark, and the twain sat down beside the water
to listen to the lap of its waves and watch the stars come out.

Hurrying back to camp, the spy reported that an enemy was near them, and although Waneta had
regained her wigwam by another route before the company of warriors had reached the lake, Kayuta
was seen, pursued, and only escaped with difficulty. Next evening, not knowing what had happened
after her homeward departure on the previous night--for the braves deemed it best to keep the
knowledge of their military operations from the women--the girl crept away to the lake again
and rowed to the accustomed place, but while waiting for the quail call a twig dropped on the
water beside her. With a quick instinct that civilization has spoiled she realized this to
be a warning, and remaining perfectly still, she allowed her boat to drift toward shore, presently
discovering that her lover was standing waist-deep in the water. In a whisper he told her that
they were watched, and bade her row to a dead pine that towered at the foot of the lake, where
he would soon meet her. At that instant an arrow grazed his side and flew quivering into the canoe.

Pushing the boat on its course and telling her to hasten, Kayuta sprang ashore, sounded the
warwhoop, and as Weutha rose into sight he clove his skull with a tomahawk. Two other braves
now leaped forward, but, after a struggle, Kayuta left them dead or senseless, too. He would
have stayed to tear their scalps off had he not heard his name uttered in a shriek of agony
from the end of the lake, and, tired and bleeding though he was, he bounded along its margin
like a deer, for the voice that he heard was Waneta's. He reached the blasted pine, gave one
look, and sank to the earth. Presently other Indians came, who had heard the noise of fighting,
and burst upon him with yells and brandished weapons, but something in his look restrained
them from a close advance. His eyes were fixed on a string of beads that lay on the bottom
of the lake, just off shore, and when the meaning of it came to them, the savages thought no
more of killing, but moaned their grief; for Waneta, in stepping from her canoe to wade ashore,
had been caught and swallowed by a quagmire. All night and all next day Kayuta sat there like
a man of stone. Then, just as the hour fell when he was used to meet his love, his heart broke,
and he joined her in the spiritland.

THE DROP STAR

A little maid of three years was missing from her home on the Genesee. She had gone to gather
water-lilies and did not return. Her mother, almost crazed with grief, searched for days, weeks,
months, before she could resign herself to the thought that her little one--Kayutah, the Drop
Star, the Indians called her--had indeed been drowned. Years went by. The woman's home was
secure against pillage, for it was no longer the one house of a white family in that region,
and the Indians had retired farther and farther into the wilderness. One day a hunter came
to the woman and said, "I have seen old Skenandoh,--the last of his tribe, thank God! who bade
me say this to you: that the ice is broken, and he knows of a hill of snow where a red berry
grows that shall be yours if you will claim it." When the meaning of this message came upon
her the woman fainted, but on recovering speech she despatched her nephew to the hut of the
aged chief and passed that night in prayer.

The young man set off at sunset, and by hard riding, over dim trails, with only stars for light,
he came in the gray of dawn to an upright timber, colored red and hung with scalps, that had
been cut from white men's heads at the massacre of Wyoming. The place they still call Painted
Post. Without drawing rein he sped along the hills that hem Lake Seneca, then, striking deeper
into the wilds, he reached a smaller lake, and almost fell from his saddle before a rude tent
near the shore. A new grave had been dug close by, and he shuddered to think that perhaps he
had come too late, but a wrinkled Indian stepped forth at that moment and waited his word.

"I come," cried the youth,--"to see the berry that springs from snow."

"You come in time," answered Skenandoh. "No, 'tis not in that grave. It is my own child that
is buried there. She was as a sister to the one you seek, and she bade me restore the Drop
Star to her mother,--the squaw that we know as the New Moon's Light."

Stepping into the wigwam, he emerged again, clasping the wrist of a girl of eighteen, whose
robe he tore asunder at the throat, showing the white breast, and on it a red birth-mark; then,
leading her to the young man, he said,--"And now I must go to the setting sun." He slung a
pouch about him, loaded, not with arms and food, but stones, stepped into his canoe, and paddled
out upon the water, singing as he went a melancholy chant--his deathsong. On gaining the middle
of the lake he swung his tomahawk and clove the bottom of the frail boat, so that it filled
in a moment and the chief sank from sight. The young man took his cousin to her overjoyed mother,
helped to win her back to the ways of civilized life, and eventually married her. She took
her Christian name again, but left to the lake on whose banks she had lived so long her Indian
name of Drop Star--Kayutah.

THE PROPHET OF PALMYRA

It was at Palmyra, New York, that the principles of Mormonism were first enunciated by Joseph
Smith, who claimed to have found the golden plates of the Book of Mormon in a hill-side in
neighboring Manchester,--the "Hill of Cumorah,"--to which he was led by angels. The plates
were written in characters similar to the masonic cabala, and he translated them by divine
aid, giving to the world the result of his discovery. The Hebrew prophet Mormon was the alleged
author of the record, and his son Moroni buried it. The basis of Mormonism was, however, an
unpublished novel, called "The Manuscript Found," that was read to Sidney Rigdon (afterwards
a Mormon elder) by its author, a clergyman, and that formulated a creed for a hypothetical
church. Smith had a slight local celebrity, for he and his father were operators with the divining-rod,
and when he appropriated this creed a harmless and beneficent one, for polygamy was a later
"inspiration" of Brigham Young--and began to preach it, in 1844, it gained many converts. His
arrogation of the presidency of the "Church of Latter Day Saints" and other rash performances
won for him the enmity of the Gentiles, who imprisoned and killed him at Carthage, Missouri,
leaving Brigham Young to lead the people across the deserts to Salt Lake, where they prospered
through thrift and industry.

It was claimed that in the van of this army, on the march to Utah, was often seen a venerable
man with silver beard, who never spoke, but who would point the way whenever the pilgrims were
faint or discouraged. When they reached the spot where the temple was afterwards built, he
struck his staff into the earth and vanished.

At Hydesville, near Palmyra, spiritualism, as it is commonly called, came into being on March
31, 1849, when certain of the departed announced themselves by thumping on doors and tables
in the house of the Fox family, the survivors of which confessed the fraud nearly forty years
after. It is of interest to note that the ground whence these new religions sprang was peopled
by the Onondagas, the sacerdotal class of the Algonquin tribe, who have preserved the ancient
religious rites of that great family until this day.

A VILLAIN'S CREMATION

Bramley's Mountain, near the present village of Bloomfield, New York, on the edge of the Catskill
group, was the home of a young couple that had married with rejoicing and had taken up the
duties and pleasures of housekeeping with enthusiasm. To be sure, in those days housekeeping
was not a thing to be much afraid of, and the servant question had not come up for discussion.
The housewives did the work themselves, and the husband had no valets. The domicile of this
particular pair was merely a tent of skins stretched around a frame of poles, and their furniture
consisted principally of furs strewn over the earth floor; but they loved each other truly.
The girl was thankful to be taken from her home to live, because, up to the time of her marriage,
she had been persecuted by a morose and ill-looking fellow of her tribe, who laid siege to
her affection with such vehemence that the more he pleaded the greater was her dislike; and
now she hoped that she had seen the last of him. But that was not to be. He lurked about the
wigwam of the pair, torturing himself with the sight of their felicity, and awaiting his chance
to prove his hate. This chance came when the husband had gone to Lake Delaware to fish, for
he rowed after and gave battle in the middle of the pond. Taken by surprise, and being insufficiently
armed, the husband was killed and his body flung into the water. Then, casting an affectionate
leer at the wife who had watched this act of treachery and malice with speechless horror from
the mountain-side, he drove his canoe ashore and set off in pursuit of her. She retreated so
slowly as to allow him to keep her in sight, and when she entered a cave he pressed forward
eagerly, believing that now her escape was impossible; but she had purposely trapped him there,
for she had already explored a tortuous passage that led to the upper air, and by this she
had left the cavern in safety while he was groping and calling in the dark. Returning to the
entrance, she loosened, by a jar, a ledge that overhung it, so that the door was almost blocked;
then, gathering light wood from the dry trees around her, she made a fire and hurled the burning
sticks into the prison where the wretch was howling, until he was dead in smoke and flame.
When his yells and curses had been silenced she told a friend what she had done, then going
back to the lake, she sang her death-song and cast herself into the water, hoping thus to rejoin
her husband.

THE MONSTER MOSQUITOE

They have some pretty big mosquitoes in New Jersey and on Long Island, but, if report of their
ancestry is true, they have degenerated in size and voracity; for the grandfather of all mosquitoes
used to live in the neighborhood of Fort Onondaga, New York, and sallying out whenever he was
hungry, would eat an Indian or two and pick his teeth with their ribs. The red men had no arms
that could prevail against it, but at last the Holder of the Heavens, hearing their cry for
aid, came down and attacked the insect. Finding that it had met its match, the mosquito flew
away so rapidly that its assailant could hardly keep it in sight. It flew around the great
lake, then turned eastward again. It sought help vainly of the witches that brooded in the
sink-holes, or Green Lakes (near Janesville, New York), and had reached the salt lake of Onondaga
when its pursuer came up and killed it, the creature piling the sand into hills in its dying
struggles.

As its blood poured upon the earth it became small mosquitoes, that gathered about the Holder
of the Heavens and stung him so sorely that he half repented the service that he had done to
men. The Tuscaroras say that this was one of two monsters that stood on opposite banks of the
Seneca River and slew all men that passed. Hiawatha killed the other one. On their reservation
is a stone, marked by the form of the Sky Holder, that shows where he rested during the chase,
while his tracks were until lately seen south of Syracuse, alternating with footprints of the
mosquito, which were shaped like those of a bird, and twenty inches long. At Brighton, New
York, where these marks appeared, they were reverentially renewed by the Indians for many years.

THE GREEN PICTURE

In a cellar in Green Street, Schenectady, there appeared, some years ago, the silhouette of
a human form, painted on the floor in mould. It was swept and scrubbed away, but presently
it was there again, and month by month, after each removal, it returned: a mass of fluffy mould,
always in the shape of a recumbent man. When it was found that the house stood on the site
of the old Dutch burial ground, the gossips fitted this and that together and concluded that
the mould was planted by a spirit whose mortal part was put to rest a century and more ago,
on the spot covered by the house, and that the spirit took this way of apprising people that
they were trespassing on its grave. Others held that foul play had been done, and that a corpse,
hastily and shallowly buried, was yielding itself back to the damp cellar in vegetable form,
before its resolution into simpler elements. But a darker meaning was that it was the outline
of a vampire that vainly strove to leave its grave, and could not because a virtuous spell
had been worked about the place.

A vampire is a dead man who walks about seeking for those whose blood he can suck, for only
by supplying new life to its cold limbs can he keep the privilege of moving about the earth.
He fights his way from his coffin, and those who meet his gray and stiffened shape, with fishy
eyes and blackened mouth, lurking by open windows, biding his time to steal in and drink up
a human life, fly from him in terror and disgust. In northern Rhode Island those who die of
consumption are believed to be victims of vampires who work by charm, draining the blood by
slow draughts as they lie in their graves. To lay this monster he must be taken up and burned;
at least, his heart must be; and he must be disinterred in the daytime when he is asleep and
unaware. If he died with blood in his heart he has this power of nightly resurrection. As late
as 1892 the ceremony of heart-burning was performed at Exeter, Rhode Island, to save the family
of a dead woman that was threatened with the same disease that removed her, namely, consumption.
But the Schenectady vampire has yielded up all his substance, and the green picture is no more.

THE NUNS OF CARTHAGE

