This threatening aspect of the public mind was rendered still more alarming by the unfortunate
vicinity of France.  What Philip dreaded for the provinces was there already accomplished.
The fate of that kingdom prefigured to him the destiny of his Netherlands, and the spirit of
rebellion found there a seductive example.  A similar state of things had under Francis I.
and Henry II. scattered the seeds of innovation in that kingdom; a similar fury of persecution
and a like spirit of faction had encouraged its growth.  Now Huguenots and Catholics were struggling
in a dubious contest; furious parties disorganized the whole monarchy, and were violently hurrying
this once-powerful state to the brink of destruction.  Here, as there, private interest, ambition,
and party feeling might veil themselves under the names of religion and patriotism, and the
passions of a few citizens drive the entire nation to take up arms.  The frontiers of both
countries merged in Walloon Flanders; the rebellion might, like an agitated sea, cast its waves
as far as this: would a country be closed against it whose language, manners, and character
wavered between those of France and Belgium?  As yet the government had taken no census of
its Protestant subjects in these countries, but the new sect, it was aware, was a vast, compact
republic, which extended its roots through all the monarchies of Christendom, and the slighest
disturbance in any of its most distant members vibrated to its centre. It was, as it were,
a chain of threatening volcanoes, which, united by subterraneous passages, ignite at the same
moment with alarming sympathy.  The Netherlands were, necessarily, open to all nations, because
they derived their support from all.  Was it possible for Philip to close a commercial state
as easily as he could Spain?  If he wished to purify these provinces from heresy it was necessary
for him to commence by extirpating it in France.

It was in this state that Granvella found the Netherlands at the beginning of his administration
(1560).

To restore to these countries the uniformity of papistry, to break the co-ordinate power of
the nobility and the states, and to exalt the royal authority on the ruins of republican freedom,
was the great object of Spanish policy and the express commission of the new minister.  But
obstacles stood in the way of its accomplishment; to conquer these demanded the invention of
new resources, the application of new machinery.  The Inquisition, indeed, and the religious
edicts appeared sufficient to check the contagion of heresy; but the latter required superintendence,
and the former able instruments for its now extended jurisdiction.  The church constitution
continued the same as it had been in earlier times, when the provinces were less populous,
when the church still enjoyed universal repose, and could be more easily overlooked and controlled.
A succession of several centuries, which changed the whole interior form of the provinces,
had left the form of the hierarchy unaltered, which, moreover, was protected from the arbitrary
will of its ruler by the particular privileges of the provinces.  All the seventeen provinces
were parcelled out under four bishops, who had their seats at Arras, Tournay, Cambray, and
Utrecht, and were subject to the primates of Rheims and Cologne.  Philip the Good, Duke of
Burgundy, had, indeed, meditated an increase in the number of bishops to meet the wants of
the increasing population; but, unfortunately, in the excitement of a life of pleasure had
abandoned the project.  Ambition and lust of conquest withdrew the mind of Charles the Bold
from the internal concerns of his kingdom, and Maximilian had already too many subjects of
dispute with the states to venture to add to their number by proposing this change. A stormy
reign prevented Charles V. from the execution of this extensive plan, which Philip II.  now
undertook as a bequest from all these princes.  The moment had now arrived when the urgent
necessities of the church would excuse the innovation, and the leisure of peace favored its
accomplishment.  With the prodigious crowd of people from all the countries of Europe who were
crowded together in the towns of the Netherlands, a multitude of religious opinions had also
grown up; and it was impossible that religion could any longer be effectually superintended
by so few eyes as were formerly sufficient.  While the number of bishops was so small their
districts must, of necessity, have been proportionally extensive, and four men could not be
adequate to maintain the purity of the faith through so wide a district.

The jurisdiction which the Archbishops of Cologne and Rheims exercised over the Netherlands
had long been a stumbling-block to the government, which could not look on this territory as
really its own property so long as such an important branch of power was still wielded by foreign
hands.  To snatch this prerogative from the alien archbishops; by new and active agents to
give fresh life and vigor to the superintendence of the faith, and at the same time to strengthen
the number of the partisans of government at the diet, no more effectual means could be devised
than to increase the number of bishops.  Resolved upon doing this Philip II. ascended the throne;
but he soon found that a change in the hierarchy would inevitably meet with warm opposition
from the provinces, without whose consent, nevertheless, it would be vain to attempt it.  Philip
foresaw that the nobility would never approve of a measure which would so strongly augment
the royal party, and take from the aristocracy the preponderance of power in the diet.  The
revenues, too, for the maintenance of these new bishops must be diverted from the abbots and
monks, and these formed a considerable part of the states of the realm.  He had, besides, to
fear the opposition of the Protestants, who would not fail to act secretly in the diet against
him.  On these accounts the whole affair was discussed at Rome with the greatest possible secrecy.
Instructed by, and as the agent of, Granvella, Francis Sonnoi, a priest of Louvain, came before
Paul IV. to inform him how extensive the provinces were, how thriving and populous, how luxurious
in their prosperity.  But, he continued, in the immoderate enjoyment of liberty the true faith
is neglected, and heretics prosper. To obviate this evil the Romish See must have recourse
to extraordinary measures.  It was not difficult to prevail on the Romish pontiff to make a
change which would enlarge the sphere of his own jurisdiction.

Paul IV. appointed a tribunal of seven cardinals to deliberate upon this important matter;
but death called him away, and he left to his successor, Pius IV., the duty of carrying their
advice into execution. The welcome tidings of the pope's determination reached the king in
Zealand when he was just on the point of setting sail for Spain, and the minister was secretly
charged with the dangerous reform.  The new constitution of the hierarchy was published in
1560; in addition to the then existing four bishoprics thirteen new ones were established,
according to the number of seventeen provinces, and four of them were raised into archbishoprics.
Six of these episcopal sees, viz., in Antwerp, Herzogenbusch, Ghent, Bruges, Ypres, and Ruremonde,
were placed under the Archbishopric of Malines; five others, Haarlem, Middelburg, Leuwarden,
Deventer, and Groningen, under the Archbishopric of Utrecht; and the remaining four, Arras,
Tournay, St. Omer, and Namur, which lie nearest to France, and have language, character, and
manners in common with that country, under the Archbishopric of Cambray.  Malines, situated
in the middle of Brabant and in the centre of all the seventeen provinces, was made the primacy
of all the rest, and was, with several rich abbeys, the reward of Granvella.  The revenues
of the new bishoprics were provided by an appropriation of the treasures of the cloisters and
abbeys which had accumulated from pious benefactions during centuries.  Some of the abbots
were raised to the episcopal throne, and with the possession of their cloisters and prelacies
retained also the vote at the diet which was attached to them.  At the same time to every bishopric
nine prebends were attached, and bestowed on the most learned juris-consultists and theologians,
who were to support the Inquisition and the bishop in his spiritual office.  Of these, the
two who were most deserving by knowledge, experience, and unblemished life were to be constituted
actual inquisitors, and to have the first voice in the Synods.  To the Archbishop of Malines,
as metropolitan of all the seventeen provinces, the full authority was given to appoint, or
at discretion depose, archbishops and bishops; and the Romish See was only to give its ratification
to his acts.

At any other period the nation would have received with gratitude and approved of such a measure
of church reform since it was fully called for by circumstances, was conducive to the interests
of religion, and absolutely indispensable for the moral reformation of the monkhood.  Now the
temper of the times saw in it nothing but a hateful change. Universal was the indignation with
which it was received.  A cry was raised that the constitution was trampled under foot, the
rights of the nation violated, and that the Inquisition was already at the door, and would
soon open here, as in Spain, its bloody tribunal.  The people beheld with dismay these new
servants of arbitrary power and of persecution.  The nobility saw in it nothing but a strengthening
of the royal authority by the addition of fourteen votes in the states' assembly, and a withdrawal
of the firmest prop of their freedom, the balance of the royal and the civil power.  The old
bishops complained of the diminution of their incomes and the circumscription of their sees;
the abbots and monks had not only lost power and income, but had received in exchange rigid
censors of their morals.  Noble and simple, laity and clergy, united against the common foe,
and while all singly struggled for some petty private interest, the cry appeared to come from
the formidable voice of patriotism.

Among all the provinces Brabant was loudest in its opposition.  The inviolability of its church
constitution was one of the important privileges which it had reserved in the remarkable charter
of the "Joyful Entry,"--statutes which the sovereign could not violate without releasing the
nation from its allegiance to him.  In vain did the university of Louvain assert that in disturbed
times of the church a privilege lost its power which had been granted in the period of its
tranquillity.  The introduction of the new bishoprics into the constitution was thought to
shake the whole fabric of liberty.  The prelacies, which were now transferred to the bishops,
must henceforth serve another rule than the advantage of the province of whose states they
had been members.  The once free patriotic citizens were to be instruments of the Romish See
and obedient tools of the archbishop, who again, as first prelate of Brabant, had the immediate
control over them. The freedom of voting was gone, because the bishops, as servile spies of
the crown, made every one fearful.  "Who," it was asked, "will after this venture to raise
his voice in parliament before such observers, or in their presence dare to protect the rights
of the nation against the rapacious hands of the government?  They will trace out the resources
of the provinces, and betray to the crown the secrets of our freedom and our property.  They
will obstruct the way to all offices of honor; we shall soon see the courtiers of the king
succeed the present men; the children of foreigners will, for the future, fill the parliament,
and the private interest of their patron will guide their venal votes." "What an act of oppression,"
rejoined the monks, "to pervert to other objects the pious designs of our holy institutions,
to contemn the inviolable wishes of the dead, and to take that which a devout charity had deposited
in our chests for the relief of the unfortunate and make it subservient to the luxury of the
bishops, thus inflating their arrogant pomp with the plunder of the poor?"  Not only the abbots
and monks, who really did suffer by this act of appropriation, but every family which could
flatter itself with the slightest hope of enjoying, at some time or other, even in the most
remote posterity, the benefit of this monastic foundation, felt this disappointment of their
distant expectations as much as if they had suffered an actual injury, and the wrongs of a
few abbot-prelates became the concern of a whole nation.

Historians have not omitted to record the covert proceedings of William of Orange during this
general commotion, who labored to conduct to one end these various and conflicting passions.
At his instigation the people of Brabant petitioned the regent for an advocate and protector,
since they alone, of all his Flemish subjects, had the misfortune to unite, in one and the
same person, their counsel and their ruler.  Had the demand been granted, their choice could
fall on no other than the Prince of Orange.  But Granvella, with his usual presence of mind,
broke through the snare.  "The man who receives this office," he declared in the state council,
"will, I hope, see that he divides Brabant with the king!"   The long delay of the papal bull,
which was kept back by a misunderstanding between the Romish and Spanish courts, gave the disaffected
an opportunity to combine for a common object.  In perfect secrecy the states of Brabant despatched
an extraordinary messenger to Pins IV. to urge their wishes in Rome itself.  The ambassador
was provided with important letters of recommendation from the Prince of Orange, and carried
with him considerable sums to pave his way to the father of the church.  At the same time a
public letter was forwarded from the city of Antwerp to the King of Spain containing the most
urgent representations, and supplicating him to spare that flourishing commercial town from
the threatened innovation.  They knew, it was stated, that the intentions of the monarch were
the best, and that the institution of the new bishops was likely to be highly conducive to
the maintenance of true religion; but the foreigners could not be convinced of this, and on
them depended the prosperity of their town.  Among them the most groundless rumors would be
as perilous as the most true.  The first embassy was discovered in time, and its object disappointed
by the prudence of the regent; by the second the town of Antwerp gained so far its point that
it was to remain without a bishop, at least until the personal arrival of the king, which was
talked of.

The example and success of Antwerp gave the signal of opposition to all the other towns for
which a new bishop was intended.  It is a remarkable proof of the hatred to the Inquisition
and the unanimity of the Flemish towns at this date that they preferred to renounce all the
advantages which the residence of a bishop would necessarily bring to their local trade rather
than by their consent promote that abhorred tribunal, and thus act in opposition to the interests
of the whole nation.  Deventer, Ruremond, and Leuwarden placed themselves in determined opposition,
and (1561) successfully carried their point; in the other towns the bishops were, in spite
of all remonstrances, forcibly inducted.  Utrecht, Haarlem, St. Omer, and Middelburg were among
the first which opened their gates to them; the remaining towns followed their example; but
in Malines and Herzogenbusch the bishops were received with very little respect.  When Granvella
made his solemn entry into the former town not a single nobleman showed himself, and his triumph
was wanting in everything that could make it real, because those remained away over whom it
was meant to be celebrated.

In the meantime, too, the period had elapsed within which the Spanish troops were to have left
the country, and as yet there was no appearance of their being withdrawn.  People perceived
with terror the real cause of the delay, and suspicion lent it a fatal connection with the
Inquisition.  The detention of these troops, as it rendered the nation more vigilant and distrustful,
made it more difficult for the minister to proceed with the other innovations, and yet he would
fain not deprive himself of this powerful and apparently indispensable aid in a country where
all hated him, and in the execution of a commission to which all were opposed.  At last, however,
the regent saw herself compelled by the universal murmurs of discontent, to urge most earnestly
upon the king the necessity of the withdrawal of the troops.  "The provinces," she writes to
Madrid, "have unanimously declared that they would never again be induced to grant the extraordinary
taxes required by the government as long as word was not kept with them in this matter.  The
danger of a revolt was far more imminent than that of an attack by the French Protestants,
and if a rebellion was to take place in the Netherlands these forces would be too weak to repress
it, and there was not sufficient money in the treasury to enlist new."  By delaying his answer
the king still sought at least to gain time, and the reiterated representations of the regent
would still have remained ineffectual, if, fortunately for the provinces, a loss which he had
lately suffered from the Turks had not compelled him to employ these troops in the Mediterranean.
He, therefore, at last consented to their departure: they were embarked in 1561 in Zealand,
and the exulting shouts of all the provinces accompanied their departure.

Meanwhile Granvella ruled in the council of state almost uncontrolled. All offices, secular
and spiritual, were given away through him; his opinion prevailed against the unanimous voice
of the whole assembly. The regent herself was governed by him.  He had contrived to manage
so that her appointment was made out for two years only, and by this expedient he kept her
always in his power.  It seldom happened that any important affair was submitted to the other
members, and if it really did occur it was only such as had been long before decided, to which
it was only necessary for formality's sake to gain their sanction. Whenever a royal letter
was read Viglius received instructions to omit all such passages as were underlined by the
minister.  It often happened that this correspondence with Spain laid open the weakness of
the government, or the anxiety felt by the regent, with which it was not expedient to inform
the members, whose loyalty was distrusted.  If again it occurred that the opposition gained
a majority over the minister, and insisted with determination on an article which he could
not well put off any longer, he sent it to the ministry at Madrid for their decision, by which
he at least gained time, and in any case was certain to find support.--With the exception of
the Count of Barlaimont, the President Viglius, and a few others, all the other counsellors
were but superfluous figures in the senate, and the minister's behavior to them marked the
small value which he placed upon their friendship and adherence.  No wonder that men whose
pride had been so greatly indulged by the flattering attentions of sovereign princes, and to
whom, as to the idols of their country, their fellow-citizens paid the most reverential submission,
should be highly indignant at this arrogance of a plebeian.  Many of them had been personally
insulted by Granvella.

The Prince of Orange was well aware that it was he who had prevented his marriage with the
Princess of Lorraine, and that he had also endeavored to break off the negotiations for another
alliance with the Princess of Savoy. He had deprived Count Horn of the government of Gueldres
and Zutphen, and had kept for himself an abbey which Count Egmont had in vain exerted himself
to obtain for a relation.  Confident of his superior power, he did not even think it worth
while to conceal from the nobility his contempt for them, and which, as a rule, marked his
whole administration; William of Orange was the only one with whom be deemed it advisable to
dissemble.  Although he really believed himself to be raised far above all the laws of fear
and decorum, still in this point, however, his confident arrogance misled him, and he erred
no less against policy than he shined against propriety.  In the existing posture of affairs
the government could hardly have adopted a worse measure than that of throwing disrespect on
the nobility.  It had it in its power to flatter the prejudices and feelings of the aristocracy,
and thus artfully and imperceptibly win them over to its plans, and through them subvert the
edifice of national liberty.  Now it admonished them, most inopportunely, of their duties,
their dignity, and their power; calling upon them even to be patriots, and to devote to the
cause of true greatness an ambition which hitherto it had inconsiderately repelled.  To carry
into effect the ordinances it required the active co-operation of the lieutenant-governors;
no wonder, however, that the latter showed but little zeal to afford this assistance.  On the
contrary, it is highly probable that they silently labored to augment the difficulties of the
minister, and to subvert his measures, and through his ill-success to diminish the king's confidence
in him, and expose his administration to contempt.  The rapid progress which in spite of those
horrible edicts the Reformation made during Granvella's administration in the Netherlands,
is evidently to be ascribed to the lukewarmness of the nobility in opposing it.  If the minister
had been sure of the nobles he might have despised the fury of the mob, which would have impotently
dashed itself against the dreaded barriers of the throne.  The sufferings of the citizens lingered
long in tears and sighs, until the arts and the example of the nobility called forth a louder
expression of them.

Meanwhile the inquisitions into religion were carried on with renewed vigor by the crowd of
new laborers (1561, 1562), and the edicts against heretics were enforced with fearful obedience.
But the critical moment when this detestable remedy might have been applied was allowed to
pass by; the nation had become too strong and vigorous for such rough treatment.  The new religion
could now be extirpated only by the death of all its professors.  The present executions were
but so many alluring exhibitions of its excellence, so many scenes of its triumphs and radiant
virtue.  The heroic greatness with which the victims died made converts to the opinions for
which they perished.  One martyr gained ten new proselytes.  Not in towns only, or villages,
but on the very highways, in the boats and public carriages disputes were held touching the
dignity of the pope, the saints, purgatory, and indulgences, and sermons were preached and
men converted.  From the country and from the towns the common people rushed in crowds to rescue
the prisoners of the Holy Tribunal from the hands of its satellites, and the municipal officers
who ventured to support it with the civil forces were pelted with stones.  Multitudes accompanied
the Protestant preachers whom the Inquisition pursued, bore them on their shoulders to and
from church, and at the risk of their lives concealed them from their persecutors. The first
province which was seized with the fanatical spirit of rebellion was, as had been expected,
Walloon Flanders.  A French Calvinist, by name Lannoi, set himself up in Tournay as a worker
of miracles, where he hired a few women to simulate diseases, and to pretend to be cured by
him.  He preached in the woods near the town, drew the people in great numbers after him, and
scattered in their minds the seeds of rebellion.  Similar teachers appeared in Lille and Valenciennes,
but in the latter place the municipal functionaries succeeded in seizing the persons of these
incendiaries; while, however, they delayed to execute them their followers increased so rapidly
that they became sufficiently strong to break open the prisons and forcibly deprive justice
of its victims.  Troops at last were brought into the town and order restored.  But this trifling
occurrence had for a moment withdrawn the veil which had hitherto concealed the strength of
the Protestant party, and allowed the minister to compute their prodigious numbers.  In Tournay
alone five thousand at one time had been seen attending the sermons, and not many less in Valenciennes.
What might not be expected from the northern provinces, where liberty was greater, and the
seat of government more remote, and where the vicinity of Germany and Denmark multiplied the
sources of contagion?  One slight provocation had sufficed to draw from its concealment so
formidable a multitude.  How much greater was, perhaps, the number of those who in their hearts
acknowledged the new sect, and only waited for a favorable opportunity to publish their adhesion
to it.  This discovery greatly alarmed the regent.  The scanty obedience paid to the edicts,
the wants of the exhausted treasury, which compelled her to impose new taxes, and the suspicious
movements of the Huguenots on the French frontiers still further increased her anxiety.  At
the same time she received a command from Madrid to send off two thousand Flemish cavalry to
the army of the Queen Mother in France, who, in the distresses of the civil war, had recourse
to Philip II. for assistance.  Every affair of faith, in whatever land it might be, was made
by Philip his own business.  He felt it as keenly as any catastrophe which could befall his
own house, and in such cases always stood ready to sacrifice his means to foreign necessities.
If it were interested motives that here swayed him they were at least kingly and grand, and
the bold support of his principles wins our admiration as much as their cruelty withholds our
esteem.

The regent laid before the council of state the royal will on the subject of these troops,
but with a very warm opposition on the part of the nobility.  Count Egmont and the Prince of
Orange declared that the time was illchosen for stripping the Netherlands of troops, when the
aspect of affairs rendered rather the enlistment of new levies advisable.  The movements of
the troops in France momentarily threatened a surprise, and the commotions within the provinces
demanded, more than ever, the utmost vigilance on the part of the government.  Hitherto, they
said, the German Protestants had looked idly on during the struggles of their brethren in the
faith; but will they continue to do so, especially when we are lending our aid to strengthen
their enemy? By thus acting shall we not rouse their vengeance against us, and call their arms
into the northern Netherlands?  Nearly the whole council of state joined in this opinion; their
representations were energetic and not to be gainsaid.  The regent herself, as well as the
minister, could not but feel their truth, and their own interests appeared to forbid obedience
to the royal mandate.  Would it not be impolitic to withdraw from the Inquisition its sole
prop by removing the larger portion of the army, and in a rebellious country to leave themselves
without defence, dependent on the arbitrary will of an arrogant aristocracy?  While the regent,
divided between the royal commands, the urgent importunity of her council, and her own fears,
could not venture to come to a decision, William of Orange rose and proposed the assembling
of the States General.  But nothing could have inflicted a more fatal blow on the supremacy
of the crown than by yielding to this advice to put the nation in mind of its power and its
rights.  No measure could be more hazardous at the present moment.  The danger which was thus
gathering over the minister did not escape him; a sign from him warned the regent to break
off the consultation and adjourn the council.  "The government," he writes to Madrid, "can
do nothing more injurious to itself than to consent to the assembling of the states.  Such
a step is at all times perilous, because it tempts the nation to test and restrict the rights
of the crown; but it is many times more objectionable at the present moment, when the spirit
of rebellion is already widely spread amongst us; when the abbots, exasperated at the loss
of their income, will neglect nothing to impair the dignity of the bishops; when the whole
nobility and all the deputies from the towns are led by the arts of the Prince of Orange, and
the disaffected can securely reckon on the assistance of the nation."  This representation,
which at least was not wanting in sound sense, did not fail in having the desired effect on
the king's mind.  The assembling of the states was rejected once and forever, the penal statutes
against the heretics were renewed in all their rigor, and the regent was directed to hasten
the despatch of the required auxiliaries.

But to this the council of state would not consent.  All that she obtained was, instead of
the troops, a supply of money for the Queen Mother, which at this crisis was still more welcome
to her.  In place, however, of assembling the states, and in order to beguile the nation with,
at least, the semblance of republican freedom, the regent summoned the governors of the provinces
and the knights of the Golden Fleece to a special congress at Brussels, to consult on the present
dangers and necessities of the state.  When the President, Viglius, had laid before them the
matters on which they were summoned to deliberate, three days were given to them for consideration.
During this time the Prince of Orange assembled them in his palace, where he represented to
them the necessity of coming to some unanimous resolution before the next sitting, and of agreeing
on the measures which ought to be followed in the present dangerous state of affairs.

