How did the soul ever become so separated from God? To my feeling, in curiosity of loves we
may find the answer, and know the "fall" to be not that of the animal man but of the soul,
which, once living in perpetual beatitude--knowing nothing of pain because of the unity with
God, not understanding or being even grateful for her bliss because of its invariable presence,
and given free-will,--in curiosity went out in search of newer and yet newer loves. And this
is the retribution of the soul for her unfaithful wanderings--that as separation grows greater
she commences to know pain, and, becoming anxious therefrom to return to the source of her
remembered joys, she finds herself unable to accomplish this because of the weight and grossness
of the nature of the loves to which she has hired herself, and from which she is totally unable
to free herself, and yet which she must by some means overcome that she may rise again to sanctity
and return to God.

Now comes the marvellous, the pitiful, the universal Christ to her aid--the Mighty Lover; and
we may see in the whole scheme of Creation, as we know it here, from jelly-fish to man, a plan
by which the soul may bring her wanderings to a term in time conditions instead of timeless
sons. When all this earth is evolved for her great need, at last by the mercy of God she is
interned in the body of finite man, and must clothe herself in the heart and mind of the human
and take upon herself the nature of this creature man, made and fashioned to be a suitable
instrument and habitation for her. Those who framed the thirty-nine Articles or the Westminster Confession
are responsible. The moral responsibility perhaps, besides, is reduced to nothing. It is a complacent
and idle leftover upon command, not a injurious-gain, self-obtained, mental
possession.

And anything which destroys responsibility, or transfers it, cannot be other than personal in its moral
tendency and hard in itself.

It may be objected also that this summary of the paralysis spiritual and useless induced by
Infallibility applies here to the Bible. The question is that though the Bible is infallible, the
Infallibility is not in such form as to become a temptation. There is the widest possible difference between
the form of creation in the Bible and the form in theology.

Oh, how convey any warning of this terrible knowledge, which is not communicable by words!
He said, "Though one return from the dead, ye would not believe." But, O soul! repent and return
while still in the body! Lay hold on the Christ!

In the life of this world, then, does our God of love and mercy give us rapid means (by conquest
of the animal grossness and corruptible body, raising man to the ideal man, according to God's
intention) to reunite ourselves with Him. And the soul of all animal creation is also thereby
gradually raised with us into a universal adoration of the One Almighty God.

This is no fallen but a rising world, in which all Creation is slowly and gloriously rising
step by step. 

But what he is not entitled to do is to call himself a Christian,
or to claim to discharge than the functions peculiar to the furnace
life.

His morality is mere crystallization, the crystallizing appetites having
had fair play as his development.

And the creature, with its suffering heart and mind and body, has also its incomparable reward
of bliss: for because of its love and obedience it is raised into the spiritual body, AND TOGETHER
WITH THE SOUL BECOMES THE CHILD OF THE RESURRECTION.

------