Attached to this speech for Sextius is a declamation against Vatinius, who was one of the witnesses
employed by the prosecutor. Instead of examining this witness regularly, he talked him down
by a separate oration. We have no other instance of such a forensic manoeuvre either in Cicero's
practice or in our accounts of the doings of other Roman advocates. This has reached us as
a separate oration. It is a coarse tirade of abuse against a man whom we believe to have been
bad, but as to whom we feel that we are not justified in supposing that we can get his true
character here. He was a creature of Cæsar's, and Cicero was able to say words as to Vatinius
which he was unwilling to speak as to Cæsar and his doings. It must be added here that two
years later Cicero pleaded for this very Vatinius, at the joint request of Cæsar and Pompey,
when Vatinius on leaving the Prætorship was accused of corruption.

[Sidenote: B.C. 56, ætat. 51.]

The nature of the reward to which the aspiring oligarch of Rome always turned his eyes has
been sufficiently explained. He looked to be the governor of a province. At this period of
which we are speaking there was no reticence in the matter. Syria, or Macedonia, or Hispania
had been the prize, or Sicily, or Sardinia. It was quite understood that an aspiring oligarch
went through the dust and danger and expense of political life in order that at last he might
fill his coffers with provincial plunder. There were various laws as to which these governments
were allotted to the plunderers. Of these we need only allude to the Leges Semproniæ, or laws
proposed B.C. 123, by Caius Sempronius Gracchus, for the distribution of those provinces which
were to be enjoyed by Proconsuls. There were prætorian provinces and consular provinces, though
there was no law making it sure that any province should be either consular or prætorian. But
the Senate, without the interference of the people and free from the Tribunes' veto, had the
selection of provinces for the Consuls; whereas, for those intended for the Prætors, the people
had the right of voting and the Tribunes of the people had a right of putting a veto on the
propositions made. Now, in this year there came before the Senate a discussion as to the fate
of three Proconsuls--not as to the primary allocation of provinces to them, but on the question
whether they should be continued in the government which they held. Piso was in Macedonia,
where he was supposed to have disgraced himself and the Empire which he served. Gabinius was
in Syria, where it was acknowledged that he had done good service, though his own personal
character stood very low. Cæsar was lord in the two Gauls--that is, on both sides of the Alps,
in Northern Italy, and in that portion of modern France along the Mediterranean which had been
already colonized--and was also governor of Illyricum. He had already made it manifest to all
men that the subjugation of a new empire was his object rather than provincial plunder. Whether
we love the memory of Cæsar as of a great man who showed himself fit to rule the world, or
turn away from him as from one who set his iron heel on the necks of men, and by doing so retarded
for centuries the liberties of mankind, we have to admit that he rose by the light of his own
genius altogether above the ambition of his contemporaries. If we prefer, as I do, the humanity
of Cicero, we must confess to ourselves the supremacy of Cæsar, and acknowledge ourselves to
belong to the beaten cause. "Victrix causa Deis placuit; sed victa Catoni." In discussing the
fate of these proconsular officials we feel now the absurdity of mixing together in the same
debate the name of Piso and Gabinius with that of Cæsar. Yet such was the subject in dispute
when Cicero made his speech, De Provinciis Consularibus, as to the adjudication of the consular
provinces.

There was a strong opinion among many Senators that Cæsar should be stopped in his career.
I need not here investigate the motives, either great or little, on which this opinion was
founded. There was hardly a Senator among them who would not have wished Cæsar to be put down,
though there were many who did not dare declare their wishes. There were reasons for peculiar
jealousy on the part of the Senate. Cisalpine Gaul had been voted for him by the intervention
of the people, and especially by that of the Tribune Vatinius--to Cæsar who was Consularis,
whose reward should have been an affair solely for the Senate. Then there had arisen a demand,
a most unusual demand, for the other Gaul also. The giving of two provinces to one governor
was altogether contrary to the practice of the State; but so was the permanent and acknowledged
continuance of a conspiracy such as the Triumvirate unusual. Cæsar himself was very unusual.
Then the Senate, feeling that the second province would certainly be obtained, and anxious
to preserve some shred of their prerogative, themselves voted the Farther Gaul. As it must
be done, let it at any rate be said that they had done it. But as they had sent Cæsar over
the Alps so they could recall him, or try to recall him. Therefore, with the question as to
Piso and Gabinius, which really meant nothing, came up this also as to Cæsar, which meant a
great deal.

But Cæsar had already done great things in Gaul. He had defeated the Helvetians and driven
Ariovistus out of the country. He had carried eight legions among the distant Belgæ, and had
conquered the Nervii. In this very year he had built a huge fleet, and had destroyed the Veneti,
a seafaring people on the coast of the present Brittany. The more powerful he showed himself
to be, the more difficult it was to recall him; but also the more desirable in the eyes of
many. In the first portion of his speech Cicero handles Piso and Gabinius with his usual invective.
There was no considerable party desirous of renewing to them their governments, but Cicero
always revelled in the pleasure of abusing them. He devotes by far the longer part of his oration
to the merit of Cæsar.[19] As for recalling him, it would be irrational. Who had counted more
enemies in Rome than Marius? but did they recall Marius when he was fighting for the Republic?[20]
Hitherto the Republic had been forced to fear the Gauls. Rome had always been on the defence
against them. Now it had been brought about by Cæsar that the limits of the world were the
limits of the Roman Empire.[21] The conquest was not yet finished, but surely it should be
left to him who had begun it so well. Even though Cæsar were to demand to return himself, thinking
that he had done enough for his own glory, it would be for the Senators to restrain him--for
the Senate to bid him finish the work that he had in hand.[22] As for himself, continued Cicero,
if Cæsar had been his enemy, what of that? Cæsar was not his enemy now. He had told the Senate
what offers of employment Cæsar had made him. If he could not forget, yet he would forgive,
former injuries.[23]

It is important for the reading of Cicero's character that we should trace the meaning of his
utterances about Cæsar from this time up to the day on which Cæsar was killed--his utterances
in public, and those which are found in his letters to Atticus and his brother. That there
was much of pretence--of falsehood, if a hard word be necessary to suit the severity of those
who judge the man hardly--is admitted. How he praised Pompey in public, dispraising him in
private, at one and the same moment, has been declared. How he applied for praise, whether
deserved or not, has been shown. In excuse, not in defence, of this I allege that the Romans
of the day were habitually false after this fashion. The application to Lucceius proves the
habitual falseness not of Cicero only, but of Lucceius also; and the private words written
to Atticus, in opposition to the public words with which Atticus was well acquainted, prove
the falseness also of Atticus. It was Roman; it was Italian; it was cosmopolitan; it was human.
I only wish that it were possible to declare that it is no longer Italian, no longer cosmopolitan,
no longer human. To this day it is very difficult even for an honorable man to tell the whole
truth in the varying circumstances of public life. The establishment of even a theory of truth,
with all the advantages which have come to us from Christianity, has been so difficult, hitherto
so imperfect, that we ought, I think, to consider well the circumstances before we stigmatize
Cicero as specially false. To my reading he seems to have been specially true. When Cæsar won
his way up to power, Cicero was courteous to him, flattered him, and, though, never subservient,
yet was anxious to comply when compliance was possible. Nevertheless, we know well that the
whole scheme of Cæsar's political life was opposed to the scheme entertained by Cicero. It
was Cicero's desire to maintain as much as he could of the old form of oligarchical rule under
which, as a constitution, the Roman Empire had been created. It was Cæsar's intention to sweep
it all away. We can see that now; but Cicero could only see it in part. To his outlook the
man had some sense of order, and had all the elements of greatness. He was better, at any rate,
than a Verres, a Catiline, a Clodius, a Piso, or a Gabinius. If he thought that by flattery
he could bring Cæsar somewhat round, there might be conceit in his so thinking, but there could
be no treachery. In doing so he did not abandon his political beau ideal. If better times came,
or a better man, he would use them. In the mean time he could do more by managing Cæsar than
by opposing him. He was far enough from succeeding in the management of Cæsar, but he did do
much in keeping his party together. It was in this spirit that he advocated before the Senate
the maintenance of Cæsar's authority in the two Gauls. The Senate decreed the withdrawal of
Piso and Gabinius, but decided to leave Cæsar where he was. Mommsen deals very hardly with
Cicero as to this period of his life. "They used him accordingly as--what he was good for--an
advocate." "Cicero himself had to thank his literary reputation for the respectful treatment
which he experienced from Cæsar." The question we have to ask ourselves is whether he did his
best to forward that scheme of politics which he thought to be good for the Republic. To me
it seems that he did do so. He certainly did nothing with the object of filling his own pockets.
I doubt whether as much can be said with perfect truth as to any other Roman of the period,
unless it be Cato.

Balbus, for whom Cicero also spoke in this year, was a Spaniard of Cadiz, to whom Pompey had
given the citizenship of Rome, who had become one of Cæsar's servants and friends, and whose
citizenship was now disputed. Cicero pleaded in favor of the claim, and gained his cause. There
were, no doubt, certain laws in accordance with which Balbus was or was not a citizen; but
Cicero here says that because Balbus was a good man, therefore there should be no question
as to his citizenship.[24] This could hardly be a good legal argument. But we are glad to have
the main principles of Roman citizenship laid down for us in this oration. A man cannot belong
to more than one State at a time. A man cannot be turned out of his State against his will.
A man cannot be forced to remain in his State against his will.[25] This Balbus was acknowledged
as a Roman, rose to be one of Cæsar's leading ministers, and was elected Consul of the Empire
B.C. 40. Thirty-four years afterward his nephew became Consul. Nearly three centuries after
that, A.D. 237, a descendant of Balbus was chosen as Emperor, under the name of Balbinus, and
is spoken of by Gibbon with eulogy.[26]

I know no work on Cicero written more pleasantly, or inspired by a higher spirit of justice,
than that of Gaston Boissier, of the French Academy, called Cicéron et ses Amis. Among his
chapters one is devoted to Cicero's remarkable intimacy with Cælius, which should be read by
all who wish to study Cicero. We have now come to the speech which he made in this year in
defence of Cælius. Cælius had entered public life very early, as the son of a rich citizen
who was anxious that his heir should be enabled to shine as well by his father's wealth as
by his own intellect. When he was still a boy, according to our ideas of boyhood, he was apprenticed
to Cicero,[27] as was customary, in order that he might pick up the crumbs which fell from
the great man's table. It was thus that a young man would hear what was best worth hearing;
thus he would become acquainted with those who were best worth knowing; thus that he would
learn in public life all that was best worth learning. Cælius heard all, and knew many, and
learned much; but he perhaps learned too much at too early an age. He became bright and clever,
but unruly and dissipated. Cicero, however, loved him well. He always liked the society of
bright young men, and could forgive their morals if their wit were good. Clodius--even Clodius,
young Curio, Cælius and afterward Dolabella, were companions with whom he loved to associate.
When he was in Cilicia, as Proconsul, this Cælius became almost a second Atticus to him, in
the writing of news from Rome.

But Cælius had become one of Clodia's many lovers, and seems for a time to have been the first
favorite, to the detriment of poor Catullus. The rich father had, it seems, quarrelled with
his son, and Cælius was in want of money. He borrowed it from Clodia, and then, without paying
his debt, treated Clodia as she had treated Catullus. The lady tried to get her money back,
and when she failed she accused her former lover of an attempt to poison her. This she did
so that Cælius was tried for the offence. There were no less than four accusers, or advocates,
on her behalf, of whom her brother was one. Cælius was defended by Crassus as well as by Cicero,
and was acquitted. All these cases combined political views with criminal charges. Cælius was
declared to have been a Catilinian conspirator. He was also accused of being in debt, of having
quarrelled with his father, of having insulted women, of having beaten a Senator, of having
practised bribery, of having committed various murders, and of having perpetrated all social
and political excesses to which his enemies could give a name. It was probable that his life
had been very irregular, but it was not probably true that he had attempted to poison Clodia.

The speech is very well worth the trouble of reading. It is lively, bright, picturesque, and
argumentative; and it tells the reader very much of the manners of Rome at the time. It has
been condemned for a passage which, to my taste, is the best in the whole piece. Cicero takes
upon himself to palliate the pleasures of youth, and we are told that a man so grave, so pure,
so excellent in his own life, should not have condescended to utter sentiments so lax in defence
of so immoral a young friend. I will endeavor to translate a portion of the passage, and I
think that any ladies who may read these pages will agree with me in liking Cicero the better
for what he said upon the occasion. He has been speaking of the changes which the manners of
the world had undergone, not only in Rome but in Greece, since pleasure had been acknowledged
even by philosophers to be necessary to life. "They who advocate one constant course of continual
labor as the road to fame are left alone in their schools, deserted by their scholars. Nature
herself has begotten for us allurements, seduced by which Virtue herself will occasionally
become drowsy. Nature herself leads the young into slippery paths, in which not to stumble
now and again is hardly possible. Nature has produced for us a variety of pleasures, to which
not only youth, but even middle-age, occasionally yields itself. If, therefore, you shall find
one who can avert his eyes from all that is beautiful--who is charmed by no sweet smell, by
no soft touch, by no rich flavor--who can turn a deaf ear to coaxing words--I indeed, and perhaps
a few others, may think that the gods have been good to such a one; but I doubt whether the
world at large will not think that the gods have made him a sorry fellow." There is very much
more of it, delightfully said, and in the same spirit; but I have given enough to show the
nature of the excuse for Cælius which has brought down on Cicero the wrath of the moralists.

CHAPTER II.

CICERO, ÆTAT. 52, 53, 54.

[Sidenote: B.C. 55, ætat. 52.]

I can best continue my record of Cicero's life for this and the two subsequent years by following
his speeches and his letters. It was at this period the main object of his political life to
reconcile the existence of a Cæsar with that of a Republic--two poles which could not by any
means be brought together. Outside of his political life he carried on his profession as an
advocate with all his former energy, with all his former bitterness, with all his old friendly
zeal, but never, I think, with his former utility. His life with his friends and his family
was prosperous; but that ambition to do some great thing for his country which might make his
name more famous than that of other Romans was gradually fading, and, as it went, was leaving
regrets and remorse behind which would not allow him to be a happy man. But it was now, when
he had reached his fifty-second year, that he in truth began that career in literature which
has made him second to no Roman in reputation. There are some early rhetorical essays, which
were taken from the Greek, of doubtful authenticity; there are the few lines which are preserved
of his poetry; there are the speeches which he wrote as well as spoke for the Rome of the day;
and there are his letters, which up to this time had been intended only for his correspondents.
All that we have from his pen up to this time has been preserved for us by the light of those
great works which he now commenced. In this year, B.C. 55, there appeared the dialogue De Oratore,
and in the next the treatise De Republica. It was his failure as a politician which in truth
drove Cicero to the career of literature. As I intend to add to this second volume a few chapters
as to his literary productions, I will only mention the dates on which these dialogues and
treatises were given to the world as I go on with my work.

In the year B.C. 55, the two of the Triumvirate who had been left in Rome, Pompey and Crassus,
were elected Consuls, and provinces were decreed to each of them for five years--to Pompey
the two Spains, and to Crassus that Syria which was to be so fatal to him. All this had been
arranged at Lucca, in the north of Italy, whither Cæsar was able to come as being within the
bounds of his province, to meet his friends from Rome--or his enemies. All aristocratic Rome
went out in crowds to Lucca, so that two hundred Senators might be seen together in the streets
of that provincial town. It was nevertheless near enough to Rome to permit the conqueror from
Gaul to look closely into the politics of the city. By his permission, if not at his instigation,
Pompey and Crassus had been chosen Consuls, and to himself was conceded the government of his
own province for five further years--that is, down to year B.C. 49 inclusive. It must now at
least have become evident to Cicero that Cæsar intended to rule the Empire.

Though we already have Cicero's letters arranged for us in a chronological sequence which may
be held to be fairly correct for biographical purposes, still there is much doubt remaining
as to the exact periods at which many of them were written. Abeken, the German biographer,
says that this year, B.C. 55, produced twelve letters. In the French edition of Cicero's works
published by Panckoucke thirty-five are allotted to it. Mr. Watson, in his selected letters,
has not taken one from the year in question. Mr. Tyrrell, who has been my Mentor hitherto in
regard to the correspondence, has not, unfortunately, published the result of his labors beyond
the year 53 B.C. at the time of my present writing. Some of those who have dealt with Cicero's
life and works, and have illustrated them by his letters, have added something to the existing
confusion by assuming an accuracy of knowledge in this respect which has not existed. We have
no right to quarrel with them for having done so; certainly not with Middleton, as in his time
such accuracy was less valued by readers than it is now; and we have the advantage of much
light which, though still imperfect, is very bright in comparison with that enjoyed by him.
A study of the letters, however, in the sequence now given to them affords an accurate picture
of Cicero's mind during the years between the period of his return from exile B.C. 57 and Milo's
trial B.C. 52, although the reader may occasionally be misled as to the date of this or the
other letter.

With the dates of his speeches, at any rate with the year in which they were made, we are better
acquainted. They are of course much fewer in number, and are easily traced by the known historical
circumstances of the time. B.C. 55, he made that attack upon his old enemy, the late Consul
Piso, which is perhaps the most egregious piece of abuse extant in any language. Even of this
we do not know the precise date, but we may be sure that it was spoken early in the year, because
Cicero alludes in it to Pompey's great games which were in preparation, and which were exhibited
when Pompey's new theatre was opened in May.[28] Plutarch tells us that they did not take place
till the beginning of the following year.[29] Piso on his return from Macedonia attacked Cicero
in the Senate in answer to all the hard things that had already been said of him, and Cicero,
as Middleton says, "made a reply to him on the spot in an invective speech, the severest, perhaps,
that ever was spoken by any man, on the person, the parts, the whole life and conduct of Piso,
which as long as the Roman name subsists must deliver down a most detestable character of him
to all posterity."

We are here asked to imagine that this attack was delivered on the spur of the moment in answer
to Piso's attack. I cannot believe that it should have been so, however great may have been
the orator's power over thoughts and words. We have had in our own days wonderful instances
of ready and indignant reply made instantaneously, but none in which the angry eloquence has
risen to such a power as is here displayed. We cannot but suppose that had human intellect
ever been perfect enough for such an exertion, it would have soared high enough also to have
abstained from it. It may have been that Cicero knew well enough beforehand what the day was
about to produce, so as to have prepared his reply. It may well have been that he himself undertook
the polishing of his speech before it was given to the public in the words which we now read.
We may, I think, take it for granted that Piso did make an attack upon him, and that Cicero
answered him at once with words which crushed him, and which are not unfairly represented by
those which have come down to us.

The imaginative reader will lose himself in wonder as he pictures to himself the figure of
the pretentious Proconsul, with his assumption of confidence, as he was undergoing the castigation
which this great master of obloquy was inflicting upon him, and the figure of the tall, lean
orator, with his long neck and keen eyes, with his arms trained to assist his voice, managing
his purple bordered toga with a perfect grace, throwing all his heart into his impassioned
words as they fell into the ears of the Senators around him without the loss of a syllable.
This Lucius Calpurnius Piso Cæsoronius had come from one of the highest families in Rome, and
had possessed interest enough to be elected Consul for the year in which Cicero was sent into
banishment.[30] He was closely connected with that Piso Frugi to whom Cicero's daughter had
been married; and Cicero, when he was threatened by the faction of Clodius--a faction which
he did not then believe to be supported by the Triumvirate--had thought that he was made safe,
at any rate, from cruel results by consular friendship and consular protection. Piso Cæsoronius
had failed him altogether, saying, in answer to Cicero's appeal, that the times were of such
a nature that every one must look to himself. The nature of Cicero's rage may be easily conceived.
An attempt to describe it has already been made. It was not till after his Consulate that he
was ever waked to real anger, and the one object whom he most entirely hated with his whole
soul was Lucius Piso.

By the strength of Cicero's eloquence this man has occupied an immortality of meanness. We
cannot but believe that he must have in some sort deserved it, or the justice of the world
would have vindicated his character. It should, however, be told of him that three years afterward
he was chosen Censor, together with Appius Claudius. But it must also be told that, as far
as we can judge, both these men were unworthy of the honor. They were the last two Censors
elected in Rome before the days of the Empire. It is impossible not to believe that Piso was
vile, but impossible also to believe that he was as vile as Cicero represented him. Cæsar was
at this time his son-in-law, as he was father to Calphurnia, with whom Shakspeare has made
us familiar. I do not know that Cæsar took in bad part the hard things that were said of his
father-in-law.

The first part of the speech is lost. The first words we know because they have been quoted
by Quintilian, "Oh ye gods immortal, what day is this which has shone upon me at last?"[31]
We may imagine from this that Cicero intended it to be understood that he exulted in the coming
of his revenge. The following is a fair translation of the opening passage of what remains
to us: "Beast that you are, do you not see, do you not perceive, how odious to the men around
you is that face of yours?" Then with rapid words he heaps upon the unfortunate man accusations
of personal incompetencies. Nobody complains, says Cicero, that that fellow of yesterday, Gabinius,
should have been made Consul: we have not been deceived in him. "But your eyes and eyebrows,
your forehead, that face of yours, which should be the dumb index of the mind within, have
deceived those who have not known you. Few of us only have been aware of your infamous vices,
the sloth of your intellect, your dulness, your inability to speak. When was your voice heard
in the Forum? when has your counsel been put to the proof? when did you do any service either
in peace or war? You have crept into your high place by the mistakes of men, by the regard
to the dirty images of your ancestors, to whom you have no resemblance except in their present
grimy color. And shall he boast to me," says the orator, turning from Piso to the audience
around, "that he has gone on without a check from one step in the magistracy to another? That
is a boast for me to make, for me--"homini novo"--a man without ancestors, on whom the Roman
people has showered all its honors. You were made Ædile, you say; the Roman people choose a
Piso for their Ædile--not this man from any regard for himself, but because he is a Piso. The
Prætorship was conferred not on you but on your ancestors who were known and who were dead!
Of you, who are alive no one has known anything. But me--!" Then he continues the contrast
between himself and Piso; for the speech is as full of his own merits as of the other man's
abominations.

So the oration goes on to the end. He asserts, addressing himself to Piso, that if he saw him
and Gabinius crucified together, he did not know whether he would be most delighted by the
punishment inflicted on their bodies or by the ruin of their reputation. He declares that he
has prayed for all evil on Piso and Gabinius, and that the gods have heard him, but it has
not been for death, or sickness, or for torment, that he had prayed, but for such evils as
have in truth come upon them. Two Consuls sent with large armies into two of the grandest provinces
have returned with disgrace. That one--meaning Piso--has not dared even to send home an account
of his doings; and the other--Gabinius--has not had his words credited by the Senate, nor any
of his requests granted! He Cicero, had hardly dared to hope for all this, but the gods had
done it for him! The most absurd passage is that in which he tells Piso that, having lost his
army--which he had done--he had brought back nothing in safety but that "old impudent face
of his."[32] Altogether it is a tirade of abuse very inferior to Cicero's dignity. Le Clerc,
the French critic and editor, speaks the truth when he says, "Il faut avouer qu'il manque surtout
de modération, et que la gravité d'un orateur consulaire y fait trop souvent place à l'emportement
d'un ennemi." It is, however, full of life, and amusing as an expression of honest hatred.
The reader when reading it will of course remember that Roman manners allowed a mode of expression
among the upper classes which is altogether denied to those among us who hope to be regarded
as gentlemen.

The games in Pompey's theatre, to the preparation of which Cicero alludes in his speech against
Piso, are described by him with his usual vivacity and humor in a letter written immediately
after them to his friend Marius. Pompey's games, with which he celebrated his second Consulship,
seem to have been divided between the magnificent theatre which he had just built--fragments
of which still remain to us--and the "circus maximus." This letter from Cicero is very interesting,
as showing the estimation in which these games were held, or were supposed to be held, by a
Roman man of letters, and as giving us some description of what was done on the occasion. Marius
had not come to Rome to see them, and Cicero writes as though his friend had despised them.
Cicero himself, having been in Rome, had of course witnessed them. To have been in Rome and
not to have seen them would have been quite out of the question. Not to come to Rome from a
distance was an eccentricity. He congratulated Marius for not having come, whether it was that
he was ill, or that the whole thing was too despicable: "You in the early morning have been
looking out upon your view over the bay while we have been staring at puppets half asleep.
Most costly games, but I should say--judging of you by myself--that they would have been quite
revolting to you. Poor Æsopus was there acting, but so unfitted by age that all his friends
could not but wish that he had desisted. Why should I tell you of it all? The very costliness
of the affair took away all the pleasure. Six hundred mules on the stage in the acting of Clytemnestra,
or three thousand golden goblets in The Trojan Horse--what delight could they give you? If
your slave Protogenes was reading to you something--so that it were not one of my speeches--you
were better off at any rate than we. There were two marvellous slaughterings of beasts which
lasted for five days. Nobody denies but that they were very grand. But what pleasure can there
be to a man of letters[33] when some weak human creature is destroyed by a sturdy beast, or
when some lonely animal is pierced through by a hunting-spear. The last day was the day of
elephants, in which there could be no delight except to the vulgar crowd. You could not but
pity them, feeling that the poor brutes had something in common with humanity." In these combats
were killed twenty elephants and two hundred lions. The bad taste and systematical corruption
of Rome had reached its acme when this theatre was opened and these games displayed by Pompey.

He tells Atticus,[34] in a letter written about this time, that he is obliged to write to him
by the hand of a secretary; from which we gather that such had not been, at any rate, his practice.
He is every day in the Forum, making speeches; and he had already composed the dialogues De
Oratore, and had sent them to Lentulus. Though he was no longer in office, his time seems to
have been as fully occupied as when he was Prætor or Consul.

We have records of at least a dozen speeches, made B.C. 55 and B.C. 54, between that against
Piso and the next that is extant, which was delivered in defence of Plancius. He defended Cispius,
but Cispius was convicted. He defended Caninius Gallus, of whom we may presume that he was
condemned and exiled, because Cicero found him at Athens on his way to Cilicia, Athens being
the place to which exiled Roman oligarchs generally betook themselves.[35] In this letter to
his young friend Cælius he speaks of the pleasure he had in meeting with Caninius at Athens;
but in the letter to Marius which I have quoted he complains of the necessity which has befallen
him of defending the man. The heat of the summer of this year he passed in the country, but
on his return to the city in November he found Crassus defending his old enemy Gabinius. Gabinius
had crept back from his province into the city, and had been received with universal scorn
and a shower of accusations. Cicero at first neither accused nor defended him, but, having
been called on as a witness, seems to have been unable to refrain from something of the severity
with which he had treated Piso. There was at any rate a passage of arms in which Gabinius called
him a banished criminal.[36] The Senate then rose as one body to do honor to their late exile.
He was, however, afterward driven by the expostulations of Pompey to defend the man. At his
first trial Gabinius was acquitted, but was convicted and banished when Cicero defended him.
Cicero suffered very greatly in the constraint thus put upon him by Pompey, and refused Pompey
till Cæsar's request was added. We can imagine that nothing was more bitter to him than the
obligation thus forced upon him. We have nothing of the speech left, but can hardly believe
that it was eloquent. From this, however, there rose a reconciliation between Crassus and Cicero,
both Cæsar and Pompey having found it to their interest to interfere. As a result of this,
early in the next year Cicero defended Crassus in the Senate, when an attempt was made to rob
the late Consul of his coveted mission to Syria. Of what he did in this respect he boasts in
a letter to Crassus,[37] which, regarded from our point of view, would no doubt be looked upon
as base. He despised Crassus, and here takes credit for all the fine things he had said of
him; but we have no right to think that Cicero could have been altogether unlike a Roman. He
speaks also in the Senate on behalf of the people of Tenedos, who had brought their immunities
and privileges into question by some supposed want of faith. All we know of this speech is
that it was spoken in vain. He pleaded against an Asiatic king, Antiochus of Comagene, who
was befriended by Pompey, but Cicero seems to have laughed him out of some of his petty possessions.[38]
He spoke for the inhabitants of Reate on some question of water-privilege against the Interamnates.
Interamna we now know as Terne, where a modern Pope made a lovely water-fall, and at the same
time rectified the water-privileges of the surrounding district. Cicero went down to its pleasant
Tempe, as he calls it, and stayed there awhile with one Axius.[39] He returned thence to Rome
to undertake some case for Fonteius, and attended the games which Milo was giving, Milo having
been elected Ædile. Here we have a morsel of dramatic criticism on Antiphon the actor and Arbuscula
the actress, which reminds one of Pepys. Then he defended Messius, then Drusus, then Scaurus.
He mentions all these cases in the same letter, but so slightly that we cannot trouble ourselves
with their details. We only feel that he was kept as busy as a London barrister in full practice.
He also defended Vatinius--that Vatinius with whose iniquities he had been so indignant at
the trial of Sextius. He defended him twice at the instigation of Cæsar; and he does not seem
to have suffered in doing so, as he had certainly done when called upon to stand up and plead
for his late consular enemy, Gabinius. Valerius Maximus, a dull author, often quoted but seldom
read, whose task it was to give instances of all the virtues and vices produced by mankind,
refers to these pleadings for Gabinius and Vatinius as instances of an almost divine forgiveness
of injury.[40] I think we must seek for the good, if good is to be discovered in the proceeding,
in the presumed strength which might be added to the Republic by friendly relations between
himself and Cæsar.

[Sidenote: B.C. 54, ætat. 53.]

In the spring of the year we find Cicero writing to Cæsar in apparently great intimacy. He
recommends to Cæsar his young friend Trebatius, a lawyer, who was going to Gaul in search of
his fortune, and in doing so he refers to a joking promise from Cæsar that he would make another
friend, whom he had recommended, King of Gaul; or, if not that, foreman at least to Lepta,
his head of the mechanics. Lepta was an officer in trust under Cæsar, with whose name we become
familiar in Cicero's correspondence, though I do not remember that Cæsar ever mentions him.
"Send me some one else that I may show my friendship," Cæsar had said, knowing well that Cicero
was worth any price of the kind. Cicero declares to Cæsar that on hearing this he held up his
hands in grateful surprise, and on this account he had sent Trebatius. "Mi Cæsar," he says,
writing with all affection; and then he praises Trebatius, assuring Cæsar that he does not
recommend the young man loosely, as he had some other young men who were worthless--such as
Milo, for instance. This results in much good done to Trebatius, though the young man at first
does not like the service with the army. He is a lawyer, and finds the work in Gaul very rough.
Cicero, who is anxious on his behalf, laughs at him and bids him take the good things that
come in his way. In subsequent years Trebatius was made known to the world as the legal pundit
whom Horace pretends to consult as to the libellous nature of his satires.[41]

In September of this year Cicero pleaded in court for his friend Cn. Plancius, against whom
there was brought an accusation that, in canvassing and obtaining the office of Ædile, he had
been guilty of bribery. In all these accusations, which come before us as having been either
promoted or opposed by Cicero, there is not one in which the reader sympathizes more strongly
with the person accused than in this. Plancius had shown Cicero during his banishment the affection
of a brother, or almost of a son. Plancius had taken him in and provided for him in Macedonia,
when to do so was illegal. Cicero now took great delight in returning the favor. The reader
of this oration cannot learn from it that Plancius had in truth done anything illegal. The
complaint really made against him was that he, filling the comparatively humble position of
a knight, had ventured to become the opposing candidate of such a gallant young aristocrat
as M. Juventius Laterensis, who was beaten at this election, and now brought this action in
revenge. There is no tearing of any enemy to tatters in this oration, but there is much pathos,
and, as was usual with Cicero at this period of his life, an inordinate amount of self-praise.
There are many details as to the way in which the tribes voted at elections, which the patient
and curious student will find instructive, but which will probably be caviare to all who are
not patient and curious students. There are a few passages of peculiar force. Addressing himself
to the rival of Plancius, he tells Laterensis that, even though the people might have judged
badly in selecting Plancius, it was not the less his duty to accept the judgment of the people.[42]
Say that the people ought not to have done so; but it should have been sufficient for him that
they had done so. Then he laughs with a beautiful irony at the pretensions of the accuser.
"Let us suppose that it was so," he says.[43] "Let no one whose family has not soared above
prætorian honors contest any place with one of consular family. Let no mere knight stand against
one with prætorian relations." In such a case there would be no need of the people to vote
at all. Farther on he gives his own views as to the honors of the State in language that is
very grand. "It has," he says, "been my first endeavor to deserve the high rank of the State;
my second, to have been thought to deserve it. The rank itself has been but the third object
of my desires."[44] Plancius was acquitted--it seems to us quite as a matter of course.

In this perhaps the most difficult period of his existence, when the organized conspiracy of
the day had not as yet overturned the landmarks of the constitution, he wrote a long letter
to his friend Lentulus,[45] him who had been prominent as Consul in rescuing him from his exile,
and who was now Proconsul in Cilicia. Lentulus had probably taxed him, after some friendly
fashion, with going over from the "optimates" or Senatorial party to that of the conspirators
Pompey, Cæsar, and Crassus. He had been called a deserter for having passed in his earlier
years from the popular party to that of the Senate, and now the leading optimates were doubtful
of him--whether he was not showing himself too well inclined to do the bidding of the democratic
leaders. The one accusation has been as unfair as the other. In this letter he reminds Lentulus
that a captain in making a port cannot always sail thither in a straight line, but must tack
and haul and use a slant of wind as he can get it. Cicero was always struggling to make way
against a head-wind, and was running hither and thither in his attempt, in a manner most perplexing
to those who were looking on without knowing the nature of the winds; but his port was always
there, clearly visible to him, if he could only reach it. That port was the Old Republic, with
its well-worn and once successful institutions. It was not to be "fetched." The winds had become
too perverse, and the entrance had become choked with sand. But he did his best to fetch it;
and, though he was driven hither and thither in his endeavors, it should be remembered that
to lookers-on such must ever be the appearance of those who are forced to tack about in search
of their port.

I have before me Mr. Forsyth's elaborate and very accurate account of this letter. "Now, however,"
says the biographer, "the future lay dark before him; and not the most sagacious politician
at Rome could have divined the series of events--blundering weakness on the one side and unscrupulous
ambition on the other--which led to the Dictatorship of Cæsar and the overthrow of the constitution."
Nothing can be more true. Cicero was probably the most sagacious politician in Rome; and he,
though he did understand much of the weakness--and, it should be added, of the greed--of his
own party, did not foresee the point which Cæsar was destined to reach, and which was now probably
fixed before Cæsar's own eyes. But I cannot agree with Mr. Forsyth in the result at which he
had arrived when he quoted a passage from one of the notes affixed by Melmoth to his translation
of this letter: "It was fear alone that determined his resolution; and having once already
suffered in the cause of liberty, he did not find himself to be disposed to be twice its martyr."
I should not have thought these words worthy of refutation had they not been backed by Mr.
Forsyth. How did Cicero show his fear? Had he feared--as indeed there was cause enough, when
it was difficult for a leading man to keep his throat uncut amid the violence of the times,
or a house over his head--might he not have made himself safe by accepting Cæsar's offers?
A Proconsul out of Rome was safe enough, but he would not be a Proconsul out of Rome till he
could avoid it no longer. When the day of danger came, he joined Pompey's army against Cæsar,
doubting, not for his life but for his character, as to what might be the best for the Republic.
He did not fear when Cæsar was dead and only Antony remained. When the hour came in which his
throat had to be cut, he did not fear. When a man has shown such a power of action in the face
of danger as Cicero displayed at forty-four in his Consulship, and again at sixty-four in his
prolonged struggle with Antony, it is contrary to nature that he should have been a coward
at fifty-four.

And all the evidence of the period is opposed to this theory of cowardice. There was nothing
special for him to fear when Cæsar was in Gaul, and Crassus about to start for Syria, and Pompey
for his provinces. Such was the condition of Rome, social and political, that all was uncertain
and all was dangerous. But men had become used to danger, and were anxious only, in the general
scramble, to get what plunder might be going. Unlimited plunder was at Cicero's command--provinces,
magistracies, abnormal lieutenancies--but he took nothing. He even told his friend in joke
that he would have liked to be an augur, and the critics have thereupon concluded that he was
ready to sell his country for a trifle. But he took nothing when all others were helping themselves.

The letter to Lentulus is well worth studying, if only as evidence of the thoughtfulness with
which he weighed every point affecting his own character. He did wish to stand well with the
"optimates," of whom Lentulus was one. He did wish to stand well with Cæsar, and with Pompey,
who at this time was Cæsar's jackal. He did find the difficulty of running with the hare and
hunting with the hounds. He must have surely learned at last to hate all compromise. But he
had fallen on hard times, and the task before him was impossible. If, however, his hands were
clean when those of others were dirty, and his motives patriotic while those of others were
selfish, so much ought to be said for him.

In the same year he defended Rabirius Postumus, and in doing so carried on the purpose which
he had been instigated to undertake by Cæsar in defending Gabinius. This Rabirius was the nephew
of him whom ten years before Cicero had defended when accused of having killed Saturninus.
He was a knight, and, as was customary with the Equites, had long been engaged in the pursuit
of trade, making money by lending money, and such like. He had, it seems, been a successful
man, but, in an evil time for himself, had come across King Ptolemy Auletes when there was
a question of restoring that wretched sovereign to the throne of Egypt. As Cicero was not himself
much exercised in this matter, I have not referred to the king and his affairs, wishing as
far as possible to avoid questions which concern the history of Rome rather than the life of
Cicero; but the affairs of this banished king continually come up in the records of this time.
Pompey had befriended Auletes, and Gabinius, when Proconsul in Syria, had succeeded in restoring
the king to his throne--no doubt in obedience to Pompey, though not in obedience to the Senate.
Auletes, when in Rome, had required large sums of money--suppliant kings when in the city needed
money to buy venal Senators--and Rabirius had supplied him. The profits to be made from suppliant
kings when in want of money were generally very great, but this king seems so have got hold
of all the money which Rabirius possessed, so that the knight-banker found himself obliged
to become one of the king's suite when the king went back to take possession of his kingdom.
In no other way could he hang on to the vast debt that was owing to him. In Egypt he found
himself compelled to undergo various indignities. He became no better than a head-servant among
the king's servants. One of the charges brought against him was that he, a Roman knight, had
allowed himself to be clothed in the half-feminine garb of an Oriental attendant upon a king.
It was also brought against him as part of the accusation that he had bribed, or had endeavored
to bribe, a certain Senator. The crime nominally laid to the charge of Rabirius was "de repetundis"--for
extorting money in the position of a magistrate. The money alluded to had been, in truth, extorted
by Gabinius from Ptolemy Auletes as the price paid for his restoration, and had come in great
part probably from out of the pocket of Rabirius himself. Gabinius had been condemned, and
ordered to repay the money. He had none to repay, and the claim, by some clause in the law
to that effect was transferred to Rabirius as his agent. Rabirius was accused as though he
had extorted the money--which he had in fact lost, but the spirit of the accusation lay in
the idea that he, a Roman knight, had basely subjected himself to an Egyptian king. That Rabirius
had been base and sordid there can be no doubt. That he was ruined by his transaction with
Auletes is equally certain. It is supposed that he was convicted. He was afterward employed
by Cæsar, who, when in power, may have recalled him from banishment. There are many passages
in the oration to which I would fain refer the reader had I space to do so. I will name only
one in which Cicero endeavors to ingratiate himself with his audience by referring to the old
established Roman hatred of kings: "Who is there among us who, though he may not have tried
them himself, does not know the ways of kings? 'Listen to me here!' 'Obey my word at once!'
'Speak a word more than you are told, and you'll see what you'll get!' 'Do that a second time,
and you die!' We should read of such things and look at them from a distance, not only for
our pleasure, but that we may know of what we have to be aware, and what we ought to avoid."[46]

There is a letter written in this year to Curio, another young friend such as Cælius, of whom
I have spoken. Curio also was clever, dissipated, extravagant, and unscrupulous. But at this
period of his life he was attached to Cicero, who was not indifferent to the services which
might accrue to him from friends who might be violent and unscrupulous on the right side.

[Sidenote: B.C. 53, ætat. 54.]

This letter was written to secure Curio's services for another friend not quite so young, but
equally attached, and perhaps of all the Romans of the time the most unscrupulous and the most
violent. This friend was Milo, who was about to stand for the Consulship of the following year.
Curio was on his road from Asia Minor, where he had been Quæstor, and is invited by Cicero
in language peculiarly pressing to be the leader of Milo's party on the occasion.[47] We cannot
but imagine that the winds which Curio was called upon to govern were the tornadoes and squalls
which were to be made to rage in the streets of Rome to the great discomfiture of Milo's enemies
during his canvass. To such a state had Rome come, that for the first six months of this year
there were no Consuls, an election being found to be impossible. Milo had been the great opponent
of Clodius in the city rows which had taken place previous to the exile of Cicero. The two
men are called by Mommsen the Achilles and the Hector of the streets.[48] Cicero was of course
on Milo's side, as Milo was an enemy to Clodius. In this matter his feeling was so strong that
he declares to Curio that he does not think that the welfare and fortunes of one man were ever
so dear to another as now were those of Milo to him. Milo's success is the only object of interest
he has in the world. This is interesting to us now as a prelude to the great trial which was
to take place in the next year, when Milo, instead of being elected Consul, was convicted of
murder.

In the two previous years Cæsar had made two invasions into Britain, in the latter of which
Quintus Cicero had accompanied him. Cicero in various letters alludes to this undertaking,
but barely gives it the importance which we, as Britons, think should have been attached to
so tremendous an enterprise. There might perhaps be some danger, he thought, in crossing the
seas, and encountering the rocky shores of the island, but there was nothing to be got worth
the getting. He tells Atticus that he can hardly expect any slaves skilled either in music
or letters,[49] and he suggests to Trebatius that, as he will certainly find neither gold nor
slaves, he had better put himself into a British chariot and come back in it as soon as possible.[50]
In this year Cæsar reduced the remaining tribes of Gaul, and crossed the Rhine a second time.
It was his sixth year in Gaul, and men had learned to know what was his nature. Cicero had
discovered his greatness, as also Pompey must have done, to his great dismay; and he had himself
discovered what he was himself; but two accidents occurred in this year which were perhaps
as important in Roman history as the continuance of Cæsar's success. Julia, Cæsar's daughter
and Pompey's wife, died in childbed. She seems to have been loved by all, and had been idolized
from the time of the marriage by her uxorious husband, who was more than twenty-four years
her senior. She certainly had been a strong bond of union between Cæsar and Pompey; so much
so that we are surprised that such a feeling should have been so powerful among the Romans
of the time. "Concordiæ pignus," a "pledge of friendship," she is called by Paterculus, who
tells us in the same sentence that the Triumvirate had no other bond to hold it together.[51]
Whether the friendship might have remained valid had Julia lived we cannot say; but she died,
and the two friends became enemies. From the moment of Julia's death there was no Triumvirate.

The other accident was equally fatal to the bond of union which had bound the three men together.
Late in the year, after his Consulship, B.C. 54, Crassus had gone to his Syrian government
with the double intention of increasing his wealth and rivalling the military glories of Cæsar
and Pompey. In the following year he became an easy victim to Eastern deceit, and was destroyed
by the Parthians, with his son and the greater part of the Roman army which had been intrusted
to him.[52] We are told that Crassus at last destroyed himself. I doubt, however, whether there
was enough of patriotism alive among Romans at the time to create the feeling which so great
a loss and so great a shame should have occasioned. As far as we can learn, the destruction
of Crassus and his legions did not occasion so much thought in Rome as the breaking up of the
Triumvirate.

Cicero's daughter Tullia was now a second time without a husband. She was the widow of her
first husband Piso; had then, B.C. 56, married Crassipes, and had been divorced. Of him we
have heard nothing, except that he was divorced. A doubt has been thrown on the fact whether
she was in truth ever married to Crassipes. We learn from letters, both to his brother and
to Atticus, that Cicero was contented with the match, when it was made, and did his best to
give the lady a rich dowry.[53]

In this year Cicero was elected into the College of Augurs, to fill the vacancy made by the
death of young Crassus, who had been killed with his father in Parthia. The reader will remember
that he had in a joking manner expressed a desire for the office. He now obtained it without
any difficulty, and certainly without any sacrifice of his principle. It had formerly been
the privilege of the augurs to fill up the vacancies in their own college, but the right had
been transferred to the people. It was now conferred upon Cicero without serious opposition.

CHAPTER III.

MILO.

[Sidenote: B.C. 52, ætat. 55.]

The preceding year came to an end without any consular election. It was for the election expected
to have taken place that the services of Curio had been so ardently bespoken by Cicero on behalf
of Milo. In order to impede the election Clodius accused Milo of being in debt, and Cicero
defended him. What was the nature of the accusation we do not exactly know. "An inquiry into
Milo's debts!" Such was the name given to the pleadings as found with the fragments which have
come to us.[54] In these, which are short and not specially interesting, there is hardly a
word as to Milo's debts; but much abuse of Clodius, with some praise of Cicero himself, and
some praise also of Pompey, who was so soon to take up arms against Cicero, not metaphorically,
but in grim reality of sword and buckler, in this matter of his further defence of Milo. We
cannot believe that Milo's debts stood in the way of his election, but we know that at last
he was not elected. Early in the year Clodius was killed, and then, at the suggestion of Bibulus--whom
the reader will remember as the colleague of Cæsar in the Consulship when Cæsar reduced his
colleague to ridiculous impotence by his violence--Pompey was elected as sole Consul, an honor
which befell no other Roman.[55] The condition of Rome must have been very low when such a
one as Bibulus thought that no order was possible except by putting absolute power into the
hands of him who had so lately been the partner of Cæsar in the conspiracy which had not even
yet been altogether brought to an end. That Bibulus acted under constraint is no doubt true.
It would be of little matter now from what cause he acted, were it not that his having taken
a part in this utter disruption of the Roman form of government is one proof the more that
there was no longer any hope for the Republic.

But the story of the killing of Clodius must be told at some length, because it affords the
best-drawn picture that we can get of the sort of violence with which Roman affairs had to
be managed; and also because it gave rise to one of the choicest morsels of forensic eloquence
that have ever been prepared by the intellect and skill of an advocate. It is well known that
the speech to which I refer was not spoken, and could not have been spoken, in the form in
which it has reached us. We do not know what part of it was spoken and what was omitted; but
we do know that the Pro Milone exists for us, and that it lives among the glories of language
as a published oration. I find, on looking through the Institutio Oratoria of Quintilian, that
in his estimation the Pro Milone was the first in favor of all our author's orations--"facile
princeps," if we may collect the critic's ideas on the subject from the number of references
made and examples taken. Quintilian's work consists of lessons on oratory, which he supports
by quotations from the great orators, both Greek and Latin, with whose speeches he has made
himself familiar. Cicero was to him the chief of orators; so much so that we may almost say
that Quintilian's Institutio is rather a lecture in honor of Cicero than a general lesson.
With the Roman school-master's method of teaching for the benefit of the Roman youth of the
day we have no concern at present, but we can gather from the references made by him the estimation
in which various orations were held by others, as well as by him, in his day. The Pro Cluentio,
which is twice as long as the Pro Milone, and which has never, I think, been a favorite with
modern readers, is quoted very frequently by Quintilian. It is the second in the list. Quintilian
makes eighteen references to it; but the Pro Milone is brought to the reader's notice thirty-seven
times. Quintilian was certainly a good critic; and he understood how to recommend himself to
his own followers by quoting excellences which had already been acknowledged as the best which
Roman literature had afforded.

Those who have gone before me in writing the life of Cicero have, in telling their story as
to Milo, very properly gone to Asconius for their details. As I must do so too, I shall probably
not diverge far from them. Asconius wrote as early as in the reign of Claudius, and had in
his possession the annals of the time which have not come to us. Among other writings he could
refer to those books of Livy which have since been lost. He seems to have done his work as
commentator with no glow of affection and with no touch of animosity, either on one side or
on the other. There can be no reason for doubting the impartiality of Asconius as to Milo's
trial, and every reason for trusting his knowledge of the facts.

[Sidenote: B.C. 52, ætat. 55.]

When the year began, no Consuls had been chosen, and an interrex became necessary--one interrex
after another--to make the election of Consuls possible in accordance with the forms of the
constitution. These men remained in office each for five days, and it was customary that an
election which had been delayed should be completed within the days of the second or third
interrex. There were three candidates, Milo, Hypsæus, and Q. Metellus Scipio, by all of whom
bribery and violence were used with open and unblushing profligacy. Cicero was wedded to Milo's
cause, as we have seen from his letter to Curio, but it does not appear that he himself took
any active part in the canvass. The duties to be done required rather the services of a Curio.
Pompey, on the other hand, was nearly as warmly engaged in favor of Hypsæus and Scipio, though
in the turn which affairs took he seems to have been willing enough to accept the office himself
when it came in his way. Milo and Clodius had often fought in the streets of Rome, each ruffian
attended by a band of armed combatants, so that in audacity, as Asconius says, they were equal.

On the 20th of January Milo was returning to Rome from Lanuvium, where he had been engaged,
as chief magistrate of the town, in nominating a friend for the municipality. He was in a carriage
with his wife Fausta, and with a friend, and was followed, as was his wont, by a large band
of armed men, among whom were two noted gladiators, Eudamus and Birria. At Bovillæ, near the
temple of the Bona Dea, his cortege was met by Clodius on horseback, who had with him some
friends, and thirty slaves armed with swords. Milo's attendants were nearly ten times as numerous.
It is not supposed by Asconius that either of the two men expected the meeting, which may be
presumed to have been fortuitous. Milo and Clodius passed each other without words or blows--scowling,
no doubt; but the two gladiators who were at the end of the file of Milo's men began to quarrel
with certain of the followers of Clodius. Clodius interfered, and was stabbed in the shoulder
by Birria; then he was carried to a neighboring tavern while the fight was in progress. Milo,
having heard that his enemy was there concealed--thinking that he would be greatly relieved
in his career by the death of such a foe, and that the risk should be run though the consequences
might be grave--caused Clodius to be dragged out from the tavern and slaughtered. On what grounds
Asconius has attributed these probable thoughts to Milo we do not know. That the order was
given the jury believed, or at any rate affected to believe.

Up to this moment Milo was no more guilty than Clodius, and neither of them, probably, guilty
of more than their usual violence. Partisans on the two sides endeavored to show that each
had prepared an ambush for the other, but there is no evidence that it was so. There is no
evidence existing now as to this dragging out of Clodius that he might be murdered; but we
know what was the general opinion of Rome at the time and we may conclude that it was right.
The order probably was given by Milo--as it would have been given by Clodius in similar circumstances--at
the spur of the moment, when Milo allowed his passion to get the better of his judgment.

The thirty servants of Clodius were either killed or had run away and hidden themselves, when
a certain Senator, S. Tedius, coming that way, found the dead body on the road, and carrying
it into the city on a litter deposited it in the dead man's house. Before nightfall the death
of Clodius was known through the city, and the body was surrounded by a crowd of citizens of
the lower order and of slaves. With them was Fulvia, the widow, exposing the dead man's wounds
and exciting the people to sympathy. On the morrow there was an increased crowd, among whom
were Senators and Tribunes, and the body was carried out into the Forum, and the people were
harangued by the Tribunes as to the horror of the deed that had been done. From thence the
body was borne into the neighboring Senate-house[56] by the crowd, under the leading of Sextus
Clodius, a cousin of the dead man. Here it was burnt with a great fire fed with the desks and
benches, and even with the books and archives which were stored there. Not only was the Senate-house
destroyed by the flames, but a temple also that was close to it. Milo's house was attacked,
and was defended by arms. We are made to understand that all Rome was in a state of violence
and anarchy. The Consuls' fasces had been put away in one of the temples--that of Venus Libitina:
these the people seized and carried to the house of Pompey, declaring that he should be Dictator,
and he alone Consul, mingling anarchy with a marvellous reverence for legal forms.

But there arose in the city a feeling of great anger at the burning of the Senate-house, which
for a while seemed to extinguish the sympathy for Clodius, so that Milo, who was supposed to
have taken himself off, came back to Rome and renewed his canvass, distributing bribes to all
the citizens--"millia assuum"--perhaps something over ten pounds to every man. Both he and
Cælius harangued the people, and declared that Clodius had begun the fray. But no Consuls could
be elected while the city was in such a state, and Pompey, having been desired to protect the
Republic in the usual form, collected troops from all Italy. Preparations were made for trying
Milo, and the friends of each party demanded that the slaves of the other party should be put
to the torture and examined as witnesses; but every possible impediment and legal quibble was
used by the advocates on either side. Hortensius, who was engaged for Milo, declared that Milo's
slaves had all been made free men and could not be touched. Stories were told backward and
forward of the cruelty and violence on each side. Milo made an offer to Pompey to abandon his
canvass in favor of Hypsæus, if Pompey would accept this as a compromise. Pompey answered,
with the assumed dignity that was common to him, that he was not the Roman people, and that
it was not for him to interfere.

It was then that Pompey was created sole Consul at the instigation of Bibulus. He immediately
caused a new law to be passed for the management of the trial which was coming on, and when
he was opposed in this by Cælius, declared that if necessary he would carry his purpose by
force of arms. Pretending to be afraid of Milo's violence, he remained at home, and on one
occasion dismissed the Senate. Afterward, when Milo entered the Senate, he was accused by a
Senator present of having come thither with arms hidden beneath his toga; whereupon he lifted
his toga and showed that there were none. Asconius tells us that upon this Cicero declared
that all the other charges made against the accused were equally false. This is the first word
of Cicero's known to us in the matter.

Two or three men declared that because they had been present at the death of Clodius they had
been kidnapped and kept close prisoners by Milo; and the story, whether true or false, did
Milo much harm. It seems that Milo became again very odious to the people, and that their hatred
was for the time extended to Cicero as Milo's friend and proposed advocate. Pompey seems to
have shared the feeling, and to have declared that violence was contemplated against himself.
"But such was Cicero's constancy," says Asconius, "that neither the alienation of the people
nor the suspicions of Pompey, no fear of what might befall himself at the trial, no dread of
the arms which were used openly against Milo, could hinder him from going on with the defence,
although it was within his power to avoid the quarrel with the people and to renew his friendship
for Pompey by abstaining from it." Domitius Ænobarbus was chosen as President, and the others
elected as judges were, we are told, equally good men. Milo was accused both of violence and
bribery, but was able to arrange that the former case should be tried first. The method of
the trial is explained. Fifty-one judges or jurymen were at last chosen. Schola was the first
witness examined, and he exaggerated as best he could the horror of the murder. When Marcellus,
as advocate for Milo, began to examine Schola, the people were so violent that the President
was forced to protect Marcellus by taking him within the barrier of the judges' seats. Milo
also was obliged to demand protection within the court. Pompey, then sitting at the Treasury,
and frightened by the clamor, declared that he himself would come down with troops on the next
day. After the hearing of the evidence the Tribune Munatius Plancus harangued the people, and
begged them to come in great numbers on the morrow so that Milo might not be allowed to escape.
On the following day, which was the 11th of April, all the taverns were shut. Pompey filled
the Forum and every approach to it with his soldiers. He himself remained seated at the Treasury
as before, surrounded by a picked body of men. At the trial on this day, when three of the
advocates against Milo had spoken--Appius, Marc Antony, and Valerius Nepos--Cicero stood up
to defend the criminal. Brutus had prepared an oration declaring that the killing of Clodius
was in itself a good deed, and praiseworthy on behalf of the Republic; but to this speech Cicero
refused his consent, arguing that a man could not legally be killed simply because his death
was to be desired, and Brutus's speech was not spoken. Witnesses had declared that Milo had
lain in wait for Clodius. This Cicero alleged to be false, contending that Clodius had lain
in wait for Milo, and he endeavored to make this point and no other. "But it is proved," says
Asconius, "that neither of the men had any design of violence on that day; that they met by
chance, and that the killing of Clodius had come from the quarrelling of the slaves. It was
well known that each had often threatened the death of the other. Milo's slaves had no doubt
been much more numerous than those of Clodius when the meeting took place; but those of Clodius
had been very much better prepared for fighting. When Cicero began to address the judges, the
partisans of Clodius could not be induced to abstain from riot even by fear of the soldiery;
so that he was unable to speak with his accustomed firmness."

Such is the account as given by Asconius, who goes on to tell us that out of the fifty-one
judges thirty-eight condemned Milo and only thirteen were for acquitting him. Milo, therefore,
was condemned, and had to retire at once into exile at Marseilles.

It seems to have been acknowledged by the judges that Clodius had not been wounded at first
by any connivance on the part of Milo; but they thought that Milo did direct that Clodius should
be killed during the fight which the slaves had commenced among themselves. As far as we can
take any interest in the matter we must suppose that it was so; but we are forced to agree
with Brutus that the killing of Clodius was in itself a good deed done--and we have to acknowledge
at the same time that the killing of Milo would have been as good. Though we may doubt as to
the manner in which Clodius was killed, there are points in the matter as to which we may be
quite assured. Milo was condemned, not for killing Clodius, but because he was opposed at the
moment to the line of politics which Pompey thought would be most conducive to his own interests.
Milo was condemned, and the death of the wretched Clodius avenged, because Pompey had desired
Hypsæus to be Consul and Milo had dared to stand in his way. An audience was refused to Cicero,
not from any sympathy with Clodius, but because it suited Pompey that Milo should be condemned.
Could Cicero have spoken the words which afterward were published, the jury might have hesitated
and the criminal might have been acquitted. Cæsar was absent, and Pompey found himself again
lifted into supreme power--for a moment. Though no one in Rome had insulted Pompey as Clodius
had done, though no one had so fought for Pompey as Cicero had done, still it suited Pompey
to avenge Clodius and to punish Cicero for having taken Milo's part in regard to the consulship.
Milo, after his condemnation for the death of Clodius, was condemned in three subsequent trials,
one following the other almost instantly, for bribery, for secret conspiracy, and again for
violence in the city. He was absent, but there was no difficulty in obtaining his conviction.
When he was gone one Saufeius, a friend of his, who had been with him during the tumult, was
put upon his trial for his share in the death of Clodius. He at any rate was known to have
been guilty in the matter. He had been leader of the party who attacked the tavern, had killed
the tavern-keeper, and had dragged out Clodius to execution. But Saufeius was twice acquitted.
Had there been any hope of law-abiding tranquillity in Rome, it might have been well that Clodius
should be killed and Milo banished. As it was, neither the death of the one nor the banishment
of the other could avail anything. The pity of it was--the pity--that such a one as Cicero,
a man with such intellect, such ambition, such sympathies, and such patriotism, should have
been brought to fight on such an arena.

[Sidenote: B.C. 52, ætat. 55.]

We have in this story a graphic and most astounding picture of the Rome of the day. No Consuls
had been or could be elected, and the system by which "interreges" had been enabled to superintend
the election of their successors in lieu of the Consuls of the expiring year had broken down.
Pompey had been made sole Consul in an informal manner, and had taken upon himself all the
authority of a Dictator in levying troops. Power in Rome seems at the moment to have been shared
between him and bands of gladiators, but he too had succeeded in arming himself, and as the
Clodian faction was on his side, he was for a while supreme. For law by this time he could
have but little reverence, having been partner with Cæsar in the so-called Triumvirate for
the last eight years. But yet he had no aptitude for throwing the law altogether on one side,
and making such a coup-de-main as was now and again within his power. Beyond Pompey there was
at this time no power in Rome, except that of the gladiators, and the owners of the gladiators,
who were each intent on making plunder out of the Empire. There were certain men, such as were
Bibulus and Cato, who considered themselves to be "optimates"--leading citizens who believed
in the Republic, and were no doubt anxious to maintain the established order of things--as
we may imagine the dukes and earls are anxious in these days of ours. But they were impotent
and bad men of business, and as a body were too closely wedded to their "fish ponds"--by which
Cicero means their general luxuries and extravagances. In the bosoms of these men there was
no doubt an eager desire to perpetuate a Republic which had done so much for them, and a courage
sufficient for the doing of some great deed, if the great deed would come in their way. They
went to Pharsalia, and Cato marched across the deserts of Libya. They slew Cæsar, and did some
gallant fighting afterward; but they were like a rope of sand, and had among them no fitting
leader and no high purpose.

Outside of these was Cicero, who certainly was not a fitting leader when fighting was necessary,
and who as to politics in general was fitted rather by noble aspirations than supported by
fixed purposes. We are driven to wonder that there should have been, at such a period and among
such a people, aspirations so noble joined with so much vanity of expression. Among Romans
he stands the highest, because of all Romans he was the least Roman. He had begun with high
resolves, and had acted up to them. Among all the Quæstors, Ædiles, Prætors, and Consuls Rome
had known, none had been better, none honester, none more patriotic. There had come up suddenly
in those days a man imbued with the unwonted idea that it behooved him to do his duty to the
State according to the best of his lights--no Cincinnatus, no Decius, no Camillus, no Scipio,
no pretentious follower of those half-mythic heroes, no demigod struggling to walk across the
stage of life enveloped in his toga and resolved to impose on all eyes by the assumption of
a divine dignity, but one who at every turn was conscious of his human duty, and anxious to
do it to the best of his human ability. He did it; and we have to acknowledge that the conceit
of doing it overpowered him. He mistook the feeling of people around him, thinking that they
too would be carried away by their admiration of his conduct. Up to the day on which he descended
from his Consul's seat duty was paramount with him. Then gradually there came upon him the
conviction that duty, though it had been paramount with him, did not weigh so very much with
others. He had been lavish in his worship of Pompey, thinking that Pompey, whom he had believed
in his youth to be the best of citizens, would of all men be the truest to the Republic. Pompey
had deceived him, but he could not suddenly give up his idol. Gradually we see that there fell
upon him a dread that the great Roman Republic was not the perfect institution which he had
fancied. In his early days Chrysogonus had been base, and Verres, and Oppianicus, and Catiline;
but still, to his idea, the body of the Roman Republic had been sound. But when he had gone
out from his Consulship, with resolves strung too high that he would remain at Rome, despising
provinces and plunder, and be as it were a special providence to the Republic, gradually he
fell from his high purpose, finding that there were no Romans such as he had conceived them
to be. Then he fell away and became the man who could condescend to waste his unequalled intellect
in attacking Piso, in praising himself, and in defending Milo. The glory of his active life
was over when his Consulship was done--the glory was over, with the exception of that to come
from his final struggle with Antony--but the work by which his immortality was to be achieved
was yet before him. I think that after defending Milo he must have acknowledged to himself
that all partisan fighting in Rome was mean, ignoble, and hollow. With the Senate-house and
its archives burnt as a funeral pile for Clodius, and the Forum in which he had to plead lined
with soldiers who stopped him by their clang of arms instead of protecting him in his speech,
it must have been acknowledged by Cicero that the old Republic was dead, past all hope of resurrection.
He had said so often to Atticus; but men say words in the despondency of the moment which they
do not wish to have accepted as their established conviction. In such humor Cicero had written
to his friend; but now it must have occurred to him that his petulant expressions were becoming
only too true. When instigating Curio to canvass for Milo, and defending Milo as though it
had been a good thing for a Roman nobleman to travel in the neighborhood of the city with an
army at his heels, he must have ceased to believe even in himself as a Roman statesman.

In the oration which we possess--which we must teach ourselves to regard as altogether different
from that which Cicero had been able to pronounce among Pompey's soldiers and the Clodian rabble--the
reader is astonished by the magnificence of the language in which a case so bad in itself could
be enveloped, and is made to feel that had he been on the jury, and had such an address been
made to him, he would certainly have voted for an acquittal. The guilt or innocence of Milo
as to the murder really turned on the point whether he did or did not direct that Clodius should
be dragged out of the tavern and slain; but here in this oration three points are put forward,
in each of which it was within the scope of the orator to make the jury believe that Clodius
had in truth prepared an ambuscade, that Clodius was of all Romans the worst, and that Milo
was loyal and true, and, in spite of a certain fierceness of disposition, a good citizen at
heart. We agree with Milo, who declared, when banished, that he would never have been able
to enjoy the fish of Marseilles had Cicero spoken in the Forum the speech which he afterward
composed.

"I would not remind you," he says, "of Milo's Tribuneship, nor of all his service to the State,
unless I could make plain to you as daylight the ambush which on that day was laid for him
by his enemy. I will not pray you to forgive a crime simply because Milo has been a good citizen;
nor, because the death of Clodius has been a blessing to us all, will I therefore ask you to
regard it as a deed worthy of praise. But if the fact of the ambush be absolutely made evident,
then I beseech you at any rate to grant that a man may lawfully defend himself from the arrogance
and from the arms of his enemies."[57] From this may be seen the nature of the arguments used.
For the language the reader must turn to the original. That it will be worth his while to do
so he has the evidence of all critics--especially that of Milo when he was eating sardines
in his exile, and of Quintilian when he was preparing his lessons on rhetoric. It seems that
Cicero had been twitted with using something of a dominating tyranny in the Senate--which would
hardly have been true, as the prevailing influence of the moment was that of Pompey--but he
throws aside the insinuation very grandly. "Call it tyranny if you please--if you think it
that, rather than some little authority which has grown from my services to the State, or some
favor among good men because of my rank. Call it what you will, while I am able to use it for
the defence of the good against the violence of the evil-minded."[58] Then he describes the
fashion in which these two men travelled on the occasion--the fashion of travelling as it suited
him to describe it. "If you did not hear the details of the story, but could see simply a picture
of all that occurred, would it not appear which of them had planned the attack, which of them
was ignorant of all evil? One of them was seated in his carriage, clad in his cloak, and with
his wife beside him. His garments, his clients, his companions all show how little prepared
he was for fighting. Then, as to the other, why was he leaving his country-house so suddenly?
Why should he do this so late in the evening? Why did he travel so slowly at this time of the
year? He was going, he says, to Pompey's villa. Not that he might see Pompey, because he knew
that Pompey was at Alsium. Did he want to see the villa? He had been there a thousand times.
Why all this delay, and turning backward and forward? Because he would not leave the spot till
Milo had come up. And now compare this ruffian's mode of travelling with that of Milo. It has
been the constant custom with Clodius to have his wife with him, but now she was not there.
He has always been in a carriage, but now he was on horseback. His young Greek sybarites have
ever been with him, even when he went as far as Tuscany; on this occasion there were no such
trifles in his company. Milo, with whom such companions were not usual, had his wife's singing-boys
with him and a bevy of female slaves. Clodius, who usually never moved without a crowd of prostitutes
at his heels, now had no one with him but men picked for this work in hand."[59] What a picture
we have here of the manner in which noble Romans were wont to move about the city and the suburbs!
We may imagine that the singing-boys of Milo's wife were quite as bad as the Greek attendants
in whom Clodius usually rejoiced. Then he asks a question as to Pompey full of beautiful irony.
If Pompey could bring back Clodius from the dead--Pompey, who is so fond of him; Pompey, who
is so powerful, so fortunate, so capable of all things; Pompey, who would be so glad to do
it because of his love for the man--do you not know that on behalf of the Republic he would
leave him down among the ghosts where he is?[60] There is a delightful touch of satire in this
when we remember how odious Clodius had been to Pompey in days not long gone by, and how insolent.

The oration is ended by histrionic effects in language which would have been marvellous had
they ever been spoken, but which seem to be incredible to us when we know that they were arranged
for publication when the affair was over. "O me wretched! O me unhappy!"[61] But these attempts
at translation are all vain. The student who wishes to understand what may be the effect of
Latin words thrown into this choicest form should read the Milo.

We have very few letters from Cicero in this year--four only, I think, and they are of no special
moment. In one of them he recommends Avianus to Titus Titius, a lieutenant then serving under
Pompey.[62] In this he is very anxious to induce Titius to let Avianus know all the good things
that Cicero had said of him. In our times we sometimes send our letters of introduction open
by the hands of the person introduced, so that he may himself read his own praise; but the
Romans did not scruple to ask that this favor might be done for them. "Do me this favor. Titius,
of being kind to Avianus; but do me also the greater favor of letting Avianus know that I have
asked you." What Cicero did to Titius other noble Romans did in their communications with their
friends in the provinces. In another letter to Marius he expresses his great joy at the condemnation
of that Munatius Plancus who had been Tribune when Clodius was killed. Plancus had harangued
the people, exciting them against Milo and against Cicero, and had led to the burning of the
Senate-house and of the temple next door. For this Plancus could not be accused during his
year of office, but he had been put upon his trial when that year was over. Pompey had done
his best to save him, but in vain; and Cicero rejoices not only that the Tribune who had opposed
him should be punished, but that Pompey should have been beaten, which he attributes altogether
to the favor shown toward himself by the jury.[63] He is aroused to true exultation that there
should have been men on the bench who, having been chosen by Pompey in order that they might
acquit this man, had dared to condemn him. Cicero had himself spoken against Plancus on the
occasion. Sextus Clodius, who had been foremost among the rioters, was also condemned.

[Sidenote: B.C. 52, ætat. 55.]

This was the year in which Cæsar was so nearly conquered by the Gauls at Gergovia, and in which
Vercingetorix, having shut himself up in Alesia, was overcome at last by the cruel strategy
of the Romans. The brave Gaul, who had done his best to defend his country and had carried
himself to the last with a fine gallantry, was kept by his conqueror six years in chains and
then strangled amid the glories of that conqueror's triumph, a signal instance of the mercy
which has been attributed to Cæsar as his special virtue. In this year, too, Cicero's dialogues
with Atticus, De Legibus, were written. He seems to have disturbed his labors in the Forum
with no other work.

CHAPTER IV.

CILICIA.

[Sidenote: B.C. 51, ætat. 56.]

We cannot but think that at this time the return of Cæsar was greatly feared at Rome by the
party in the State to which Cicero belonged; and this party must now be understood as including
Pompey. Pompey had been nominally Proconsul in Spain since the year of his second Consulship,
conjointly with Crassus, B.C. 55, but had remained in Rome and had taken upon himself the management
of Roman affairs, considering himself to be the master of the irregular powers which the Triumvirate
had created; and of this party was also Cicero, with Cato, Bibulus, Brutus, and all those who
were proud to call themselves "optimates." They were now presumed to be desirous to maintain
the old republican form of government, and were anxious with more or less sincerity according
to the character of the men. Cato and Brutus were thoroughly in earnest, not seeing, however,
that the old form might be utterly devoid of the old spirit. Pompey was disposed to take the
same direction, thinking that all must be well in Rome as long as he was possessed of high
office, grand names, and the appanages of Dictatorship. Cicero, too, was anxious, loyally anxious,
but anxious without confidence. Something might perhaps be saved if these optimates could be
aroused to some idea of their duty by the exercise of eloquence such as his own. All the known
details of Cicero's life up to the period of his government of Cilicia, during his government,
and after his return from that province, prove that he was characteristically wedded to a life
in Rome. This he declared by his distaste to that employment and his impatience of return while
he was absent. Nothing, I should say, could be more certain than that he went to Cilicia in
obedience to new legal enactments which he could not avoid, but which, as they acted upon himself,
were odious to him. Mr. Froude tells us that he held the government but for two years.[65]
The period of these provincial governments had of late much varied. The acknowledged legal
duration was for one year. They had been stretched by the governing party to three, as in the
case of Verres in Sicily; to five, as with Pompey for his Spanish government; to ten for Cæsar
in Gaul. This had been done with the view of increasing the opportunities for plunder and power,
but had been efficacious of good in enabling governors to carry out work for which one year
would not have sufficed. It may be a question whether Cicero as Proconsul in Cilicia deserved
blame for curtailing the period of his services to the Empire, or praise for abstaining from
plunder and power; but the fact is that he remained in his province not two years but exactly
one;[66] and that he escaped from it with all the alacrity which we may presume to be expected
by a prisoner when the bars of his jail have been opened for him. Whether we blame him or praise
him, we can hardly refrain from feeling that his impatience was grotesque. There certainly
was no desire on Cicero's part either to go to Cilicia or to remain there, and of all his feelings
that which prompted him never to be far absent from Rome was the most characteristic of the man.

Among various laws which Pompey had caused to be passed in the previous year, B.C. 52, and
which had been enacted with views personal to himself and his own political views, had been
one "de jure magistratuum"--as to the way in which the magistrates of the Empire should be
selected. Among other clauses it contained one which declared that no Prætor and no Consul
should succeed to a province till he had been five years out of office. It would be useless
here to point out how absolutely subversive of the old system of the Republic this new law
would have been, had the new law and the old system attempted to live together. The Proprætor
would have been forced to abandon his aspirations either for the province or for the Consulship,
and no consular governor would have been eligible for a province till after his fiftieth year.
But at this time Pompey was both consul and governor, and Cæsar was governor for ten years
with special exemption from another clause in the war which would otherwise have forbidden
him to stand again for the Consulship during his absence.[67] The law was wanted probably only
for the moment; but it had the effect of forcing Cicero out of Rome. As there would naturally
come from it a dearth of candidates for the provinces it was further decreed by the Senate
that the ex-Prætors and ex-Consuls who had not yet served as governors should now go forth
and undertake the duties of government. In compliance with this order, and probably as a specially
intended consequence of it, Cicero was compelled to go to Cilicia. Mr. Froude has said that
"he preferred characteristically to be out of the way." I have here given what I think to be
the more probable cause of his undertaking the government of Cilicia.

[Sidenote: B.C. 51, ætat. 56.]

In April of this year Cicero before he started wrote the first of a series of letters which
he addressed to Appius Claudius, who was his predecessor in the province. This Appius was the
brother of the Publius Clodius whom we have known for the last two or three years as Cicero's
pest and persecutor; but he addresses Appius as though they were dear friends: "Since it has
come to pass, in opposition to all my wishes and to my expectations, that I must take in hand
the government of a province, I have this one consolation in my various troubles--that no better
friend to yourself than I am could follow you, and that I could take up the government from
the hands of none more disposed to make the business pleasant to me than you will be."[68]
And then he goes on: "You perceive that, in accordance with the decree of the Senate, the province
has to be occupied." His next letter on the subject was written to Atticus while he was still
in Italy, but when he had started on his journey. "In your farewell to me," he says, "I have
seen the nature of your love to me. I know well what is my own for you. It must, then, be your
peculiar care to see lest by any new arrangement this parting of ours should be prolonged beyond
one year."[69] Then he goes on to tell the story of a scene that had occurred at Arcanum, a
house belonging to his brother Quintus, at which he had stopped on the road for a family farewell.
Pomponia was there, the wife of Quintus and the sister to Atticus. There were a few words between
the husband and the wife as to the giving of the invitation for the occasion, in which the
lady behaved with much Christian perversity of temper. "Alas," says Quintus to his brother,
"you see what it is that I have to suffer every day!" Knowing as we all do how great were the
powers of the Roman paterfamilias, and how little woman's rights had been ventilated in those
days, we should have thought that an ex-Prætor might have managed his home more comfortably;
but ladies, no doubt, have had the capacity to make themselves disagreeable in all ages.

I doubt whether we have any testimony whatever as to Cicero's provincial government, except
that which comes from himself and which is confined to the letters written by him at the time.[70]
Nevertheless, we have a clear record of his doings, so full and satisfactory are the letters
which he then wrote. The truth of his account of himself has never been questioned. He draws
a picture of his own integrity, his own humanity, and his own power of administration which
is the more astonishing, because we cannot but compare it with the pictures which we have from
the same hand of the rapacity, the cruelty, and the tyranny of other governors. We have gone
on learning from his speeches and his letters that these were habitual plunderers, tyrants,
and malefactors, till we are taught to acknowledge that, in the low condition to which Roman
nature had fallen, it was useless to expect any other conduct from a Roman governor; and then
he gives us the account of how a man did govern, when, as by a miracle, a governor had been
found honest, clear-headed, sympathetic, and benevolent. That man was himself; and he gives
this account of himself, as it were, without a blush! He tells the story of himself, not as
though it was remarkable! That other governors should grind the bones of their subjects to
make bread of them, and draw the blood from their veins for drink; but that Cicero should not
condescend to take even the normal tribute when willingly offered, seems to Cicero to have
been only what the world had a right to expect from him! A wonderful testimony is this as to
the man's character; but surely the universal belief in his own account of his own governorship
is more wonderful. "The conduct of Cicero in his command was meritorious," says De Quincey.
"His short career as Proconsul in Cilicia had procured for him well-merited honor," says Dean
Merivale.[71] "He had managed his province well; no one ever suspected Cicero of being corrupt
or unjust," says Mr. Froude, who had, however, said (some pages before) that Cicero was "thinking
as usual of himself first, and his duty afterward."[72] Dio Cassius, who is never tired of
telling disagreeable stories of Cicero's life, says not a word of his Cilician government,
from which we may, at any rate, argue that no stories detrimental to Cicero as a Proconsul
had come in the way of Dio Cassius. I have confirmed what I have said as to this episode in
Cicero's life by the corroborating testimony of writers who have not been generally favorable
in their views of his character. Nevertheless, we have no testimony but his own as to what
Cicero did in Cilicia.[73]

It has never occurred to any reader of Cicero's letters to doubt a line in which he has spoken
directly of his own conduct. His letters have often been used against himself, but in a different
manner. He has been judged to give true testimony against himself, but not false testimony
in his own favor. His own record has been taken sometimes as meaning what it has not meant--and
sometimes as implying much more that the writer intended. A word which has required for its
elucidation an insight into the humor of the man has been read amiss, or some trembling admissions
to a friend of shortcoming in the purpose of the moment has been presumed to refer to a continuity
of weakness. He has been injured, not by having his own words as to himself discredited, but
by having them too well credited where they have been misunderstood. It is at any rate the
fact that his own account of his own proconsular doings has been accepted in full, and that
the present reader may be encouraged to believe what extracts I may give to him by the fact
that all other readers before him have believed them.

From his villa at Cumæ on his journey he wrote to Atticus in high spirits. Hortensius had been
to see him--his old rival, his old predecessor in the glory of the Forum--Hortensius, whom
he was fated never to see again. His only request to Hortensius had been that he should assist
in taking care that he, Cicero, should not be required to stay above one year in his province.
Atticus is to help him also; and another friend, Furnius, who may probably be the Tribune for
the next year, has been canvassed for the same object. In a further letter from Beneventum
he alludes to a third marriage for his daughter Tullia, but seems to be aware that, as he is
leaving Italy, he cannot interfere in that matter himself. He writes again from Venusia, saying
that he purports to see Pompey at Tarentum before he starts, and gives special instructions
to Atticus as to the payment of a debt which is due by him to Cæsar. He has borrowed money
of Cæsar, and is specially anxious that the debt should be settled. In another letter from
Tarentum he presses the same matter. He is anxious to be relieved from the obligation.[74]

From Athens he wrote again to his friend a letter which is chiefly remarkable as telling us
something of the quarrel between Marcus Claudius Marcellus, who was one of the Consuls for
the year, and Cæsar, who was still absent in Gaul. This Marcellus, and others of his family
who succeeded him in his office, were hotly opposed to Cæsar, belonging to that party of the
State to which Cicero was attached, and to which Pompey was returning.[75] It seems to have
been the desire of the Consul not only to injure but to insult Cæsar. He had endeavored to
get a decree of the Senate for recalling Cæsar at once, but had succeeded only in having his
proposition postponed for consideration in the following year--when Cæsar would naturally return.
But to show how little was his regard to Cæsar, he caused to be flogged in Rome a citizen from
one of those towns of Cisalpine Gaul to which Cæsar had assumed to give the privilege of Roman
citizenship. The man was present as a delegate from his town, Novocomum[76]--the present Como--in
furtherance of the colony's claims, and the Consul had the man flogged to show thereby that
he was not a Roman. Marcellus was punished for his insolence by banishment, inflicted by Cæsar
when Cæsar was powerful. We shall learn before long how Cicero made an oration in his favor;
but, in the letter written from Athens, he blames Marcellus much for flogging the man.[77]
"Fight in my behalf," he says, in the course of this letter; "for if my government be prolonged,
I shall fail and become mean." The idea of absence from Rome is intolerable to him. From Athens
also he wrote to his young friend Cælius, from whom he had requested information as to what
was going on in Rome. But Cælius has to be again instructed as to the nature of the subjects
which are to be regarded as interesting. "What!--do you think that I have asked you to send
me stories of gladiators, law-court adjournments, and the pilferings of Christus--trash that
no one would think of mentioning to me if I were in Rome?"[78] But he does not finish his letter
to Cælius without begging Cælius to assist in bringing about his speedy recall. Cælius troubles
him much afterward by renewed requests for Cilician panthers wanted for Ædilian shows. Cicero
becomes very sea-sick on his journey, and then reaches Ephesus, in Asia Minor, dating his arrival
there on the five hundred and sixtieth day from the battle of Bovilla, showing how much the
contest as to Milo still clung to his thoughts.[79] Ephesus was not in his province, but at
Ephesus all the magistrates came out to do him honor, as though he had come among them as their
governor. "Now has arrived," he says, "the time to justify all those declarations which I have
made as to my own conduct; but I trust I can practise the lessons which I have learned from
you." Atticus, in his full admiration of his friend's character, had doubtless said much to
encourage and to instigate the virtue which it was Cicero's purpose to employ. We have none
of the words ever written by Atticus to Cicero, but we have light enough to show us that the
one friend was keenly alive to the honor of the other, and thoroughly appreciated its beauty.
"Do not let me be more than a year away," he exclaims; "do not let even another month be added."[80]
Then there is a letter from Cælius praying for panthers.[81] In passing through the province
of Asia to his own province, he declares that the people everywhere receive him well. "My coming,"
he says, "has cost no man a shilling."[82] His whole staff has now joined him except one Tullius,
whom he speaks of as a friend of Atticus, but afterward tells us he had come to him from Titinius.
Then he again enjoins Atticus to have that money paid to Cæsar. From Tralles, still in the
province of Asia, he writes to Appius, the outgoing governor, a letter full of courtesies,
and expressing an anxious desire for a meeting. He had offered before to go by any route which
might suit Appius, but Appius, as appears afterward, was anxious for anything rather than to
encounter the new governor within the province he was leaving.[83]

On 31st July he reached Laodicea, within his own boundaries, having started on his journey
on 10th May, and found all people glad to see him; but the little details of his office harass
him sadly. "The action of my mind, which you know so well, cannot find space enough. All work
worthy of my industry is at an end. I have to preside at Laodicea while some Plotius is giving
judgment at Rome. * * * And then am I not regretting at every moment the life of Rome--the
Forum, the city itself, my own house? Am I not always regretting you? I will endeavor to bear
it for a year; but if it be prolonged, then it will be all over with me. * * * You ask me how
I am getting on. I am spending a fortune in carrying out this grand advice of yours. I like
it hugely; but when the time comes for paying you your debts I shall have to renew the bill.
* * * To make me do such work as this is putting a saddle upon a cow"--cutting a block with
a razor, as we should say--"clearly I am not made for it; but I will bear it, so that it be
only for one year."[84]

From Laodicea, a town in Phrygia, he went west to Synnada. His province, known as Cilicia,
contained the districts named on the map of Asia Minor as Phrygia, Pisidia, Pamphylia, part
of Cappadocia, Cilicia, and the island of Cyprus. He soon found that his predecessors had ruined
the people. "Know that I have come into a province utterly and forever destroyed," he says
to Atticus.[85] "We hear only of taxes that cannot be paid, of men's chattels sold on all sides,
of the groans from the cities, of lamentations, of horrors such as some wild beast might have
produced rather than a human being. There is no room for question. Every man is tired of his
life; and yet some relief is given now, because of me, and by my officers, and by my lieutenants.
No expense is imposed on any one. We do not take even the hay which is allowed by the Julian
law--not even the wood. Four beds to lie on is all we accept, and a roof over our heads. In
many places not even that, for we live in our tents. Enormous crowds therefore come to us,
and return, as it were, to life through the justice and moderation of your Cicero. Appius,
when he knew that I was come, ran away to Tarsus, the farthest point of the province." What
a picture we have here of the state of a Roman dependency under a normal Roman governor, and
of the good which a man could do who was able to abstain from plunder! In his next letter his
pride expresses itself so loudly that we have to remember that this man, after all, is writing
only his own secret thoughts to his bosom friend. "If I can get away from this quickly, the
honors which will accrue to me from my justice will be all the greater, as happened to Scævola,
who was governor in Asia only for nine months."[86] Then again he declares how Appius had escaped
into the farthest corner of the province--to Tarsus--when he knew that Cicero was coming.

He writes again to Appius, complaining. "When I compare my conduct to yours," he says, "I own
that I much prefer my own."[87] He had taken every pains to meet Appius in a manner convenient
to him, but had been deceived on every side. Appius had, in a way unusual among Roman governors,
carried on his authority in remote parts of the province, although he had known of his successor's
arrival. Cicero assures him that he is quite indifferent to this. If Appius will relieve him
of one month's labor out of the twelve he will be delighted. But why has Appius taken away
three of the fullest cohorts, seeing that in the entire province the number of soldiers left
has been so small? But he assures Appius that, as he makes his journey, neither good nor bad
shall hear evil spoken by him of his predecessor. "But as for you, you seem to have given to
the dishonest reasons for thinking badly of me." Then he describes the exact course he means
to take in his further journey, thus giving Appius full facility for avoiding him.

From Cybistra, in Cappadocia, he writes official letters to Caius Marcellus, who had been just
chosen Consul, the brother of Marcus the existing Consul; to an older Caius Marcellus, who
was their father, a colleague of his own in the College of Augurs, and to Marcus the existing
Consul, with his congratulations, also to Æmilius Paulus, who had also been elected Consul
for the next year. He writes, also, a despatch to the Consuls, to the Prætors, to the Tribunes,
and to the Senate, giving them a statement as to affairs in the province. These are interesting,
rather as showing the way in which these things were done, than by their own details. When
he reaches Cilicia proper he writes them another despatch, telling them that the Parthians
had come across the Euphrates. He writes as Wellington may have done from Torres Vedras. He
bids them look after the safety of their Eastern dominions. Though they are too late in doing
this, yet better now than never.[88] "You know," he says, "with what sort of an army you have
supported me here; and you know also that I have undertaken this duty not in blind folly, but
because in respect for the Republic I have not liked to refuse. * * * As for our allies here
in the province, because our rule here has been so severe and injurious, they are either too
weak to help us, or so embittered against us that we dare not trust them."

Then there is a long letter to Appius,[89] respecting the embassy which was to be sent from
the province to Rome, to carry the praises of the departing governor and declare his excellence
as a Proconsul! This was quite the usual thing to do! The worse the governor the more necessary
the embassy; and such was the terror inspired even by a departing Roman, and such the servility
of the allies--even of those who were about to escape from him--that these embassies were a
matter of course. There had been a Sicilian embassy to praise Verres. Appius had complained
as though Cicero had impeded this legation by restricting the amount to be allowed for its
expenses. He rebukes Appius for bringing the charge against him.

The series of letters written this year by Cælius to Cicero is very interesting as giving us
a specimen of continued correspondence other than Ciceronian. We have among the eight hundred
and eighty-five letters ten or twelve from Brutus, if those attributed to him were really written
by him; ten or twelve from Decimus Brutus, and an equal number from Plancus; but these were
written in the stirring moments of the last struggle, and are official or military rather than
familiar. We have a few from Quintus, but not of special interest unless we are to consider
that treatise on the duties of a candidate as a letter. But these from Cælius to his older
friend are genuine and natural as those from Cicero himself. There are seventeen. They are
scattered over three or four years, but most of them refer to the period of Cicero's provincial
government.

The marvel to me is that Cælius should have adopted a style so near akin to that of his master
in literature. Scholars who have studied the words can probably tell us of deficiencies in
language; but the easy, graphic tone is to my ear Ciceronian. Tiro, who was slave, secretary,
freedman, and then literary executor, may have had the handling of these letters, and have
done something toward producing their literary excellence. The subjects selected were not always
good, and must occasionally have produced in Cicero's own mind a repetition of the reprimand
which he once expressed as to the gladiatorial shows and law-court adjournments; but Cælius
does communicate much of the political news from Rome. In one letter, written in October of
this year, he declares what the Senate has decreed as to the recall of Cæsar from Gaul, and
gives the words of the enactments made, with the names subscribed to them of the promoters--and
also the names of the Tribunes who had endeavored to oppose them.[90] The purport of these
decrees I have mentioned before. The object was to recall Cæsar, and the effect was to postpone
any such recall till it would mean nothing; but Cælius specially declares that the intention
of recalling Cæsar was agreeable to Pompey, whereby we may know that the pact of the Triumvirate
was already at an end. In another letter he speaks of the coming of the Parthians, and of Cicero's
inability to fight with them because of the inadequate number of soldiers intrusted to him.
Had there been a real Roman army, then Cælius would have been afraid, he says, for his friend's
life. As it is, he fears only for his reputation, lest men should speak ill of him for not
fighting, when to fight was beyond his power.[91] The language here is so pretty that I am
tempted to think that Tiro must have had a hand in it. At Rome, we must remember, the tidings
as to Crassus were as yet uncertain. We cannot, however, doubt that Cælius was in truth attached
to Cicero.

But Cicero was forced to fight, not altogether unwillingly--not with the Parthians, but with
tribes which were revolting from Roman authority because of the Parthian success. "It has turned
out as you wished it," he says to Cælius--"a job just sufficient to give me a small coronet
of laurel." Hearing that men had risen in the Taurus range of mountains, which divided his
province from that of Syria, in which Bibulus was now governor, he had taken such an army as
he was able to collect to the Amanus, a mountain belonging to that range, and was now writing
from his camp at Pindenissum, a place beyond his own province. Joking at his own soldiering,
he tells Cælius that he had astonished those around him by his prowess. "Is this he whom we
used to know in the city? Is this our talkative Senator? You can understand the things they
said.[92] * * * When I got to the Amanus I was glad enough to find our friend Cassius had beaten
back the real Parthians from Antioch." But Cicero claims to have done some gallant things:
"I have harassed those men of Amanus who are always troubling us. Many I have killed; some
I have taken; the rest are dispersed. I came suddenly upon their strongholds, and have got
possession of them. I was called 'Imperator' at the river Issus." It is hardly necessary to
explain, yet once again, that this title belonged properly to no commander till it had been
accorded to him by his own soldiers on the field of battle.[93] He reminds Cælius that it was
on the Issus that Alexander had conquered Darius. Then he had sat down before Pindenissum with
all the machinery of a siege--with the turrets, covered ways, and ramparts. He had not as yet
quite taken the town. When he had done so, he would send home his official account of it all;
but the Parthians may yet come, and there may be danger. "Therefore, O my Rufus"--he was Cælius
Rufus--"see that I am not left here, lest, as you suspect, things should go badly with me."
There is a mixture in all this of earnestness and of drollery, of boasting and of laughing
at what he was doing, which is inimitable in its reality. His next letter is to his other young
friend, Curio, who has just been elected Tribune. He gives much advice to Curio, who certainly
always needed it.[94] He carries on the joke when he tells Atticus that the "people of Pindenissum
have surrendered." "Who the mischief are these Pindenissians? you will say. I have not even
heard the name before. What would you have? I cannot make an Ætolia out of Cilicia. With such
an army as this do you expect me to do things like a Macedonicus?[95] * * * I had my camp on
the Issus, where Alexander had his--a better soldier no doubt than you or I. I really have
made a name for myself in Syria. Then up comes Bibulus, determined to be as good as I am; but
he loses his whole cohort." The failure made by Bibulus at soldiering is quite as much to him
as his own success. Then he goes back to Laodicea, leaving the army in winter-quarters, under
the command of his brother Quintus.

But his heart is truly in other matters, and he bursts out, in the same letter, with enthusiastic
praise of the line of conduct which Atticus has laid down for him: "But that which is more
to me than anything is that I should live so that even that fellow Cato cannot find fault with
me. May I die, if it could be done better. Nor do I take praise for it as though I was doing
something distasteful; I never was so happy as in practising this moderation. The thing itself
is better to me even than the reputation of it. What would you have me say? It was worth my
while to be enabled thus to try myself, so that I might know myself as to what I could do."

Then there is a long letter to Cato in which he repeats the story of his grand doings at Pindenissum.
The reader will be sure that a letter to Cato cannot be sincere and pleasant as are those to
Atticus and Cælius. "If there be one man far removed from the vulgar love of praise, it is
I," he says to Cato.[96] He tells Cato that they two are alike in all things. They two only
have succeeded in carrying the true ancient philosophy into the practice of the Forum. Never
surely were two men more unlike than the stiff-necked Cato and the versatile Cicero.

[Sidenote: B.C. 50, ætat. 57.]

Lucius Æmilius Paullus and C. Clodius Marcellus were Consuls for the next year. Cicero writes
to both of them with tenders of friendship; but from both of them he asks that they should
take care to have a decree of the Senate passed praising his doings in Cilicia.[97] With us,
too, a returning governor is anxious enough for a good word from the Prime-minister; but he
does not ask for it so openly. The next letter from Cælius tells him that Appius has been accused
as to malpractices in his government, and that Pompey is in favor of Appius. Curio has gone
over to Cæsar. But the important subject is the last handled: "It will be mean in you if I
should have no Greek panthers."[98] The next refers to the marriages and divorces of certain
ladies, and ends with an anecdote told as to a gentleman with just such ill-natured wit as
is common in London. No one could have suspected Ocella of looking after his neighbor's wife
unless he had been detected thrice in the fact.[99]

From Laodicea he answers a querulous letter which his predecessor had written, complaining,
among other things, that Cicero had failed to show him personal respect. He proves that he
had not done so, and then rises to a strain of indignation. "Do you think that your grand old
names will affect me who, even before I had become great in the service of my country, knew
how to distinguish between titles and the men who bore them?"[100]

The next letter to Appius is full of flattery, and asking for favors, but it begins with a
sharp reproof. "Now at last I have received an epistle worthy of Appius Claudius. The sight
of Rome has restored you to your good-humor. Those I got from you in your journey were such
that I could not read them without displeasure."[101]

In February Cicero wrote a letter to Atticus which is, I think, more expressive in describing
the mind of the man than any other which we have from him. In it is commenced the telling of
a story respecting Brutus--the Brutus we all know so well--and one Scaptius, of whom no one
would have heard but for this story, which, as it deeply affects the character of Cicero, must
occupy a page or two in our narrative; but I must first refer to his own account of his own
government as again given here. Nothing was ever so wonderful to the inhabitants of a province
as that they should not have been put to a shilling of expense since he had entered it. Not
a penny had been taken on his own behalf or on that of the Republic by any belonging to him,
except on one day by one Tullius, and by him indeed under cover of the law. This dirty fellow
was a follower with whom Titinius had furnished him. When he was passing from Tarsus back into
the centre of his province wondering crowds came out to him, the people not understanding how
it had been that no letters had been sent to them exacting money, and that none of his staff
had been quartered on them. In former years during the winter months they had groaned under
exactions. Municipalities with money at their command had paid large sums to save themselves
from the quartering of soldiers on them. The island of Cyprus, which on a former occasion had
been made to pay nearly £50,000 on this head,[102] had been asked for nothing by him. He had
refused to have any honors paid to him in return for this conduct. He had prohibited the erection
of statues, shrines, and bronze chariots in his name--compliments to Roman generals which had
become common. The harvest that year was bad; but so fully convinced were the people of his
honest dealing, that they who had saved up corn--the regraters--brought it freely into market
at his coming. As some scourge from hell must have been the presence of such governors as Appius
and his predecessors among a people timid but industrious like these Asiatic Greeks. Like an
unknown, unexpected blessing, direct from heaven, must have been the coming of a Cicero.

Now I will tell the story of Brutus and Scaptius and their money--premising that it has been
told by Mr. Forsyth with great accuracy and studied fairness. Indeed, there is not a line in
Mr. Forsyth's volume which is not governed by a spirit of justice. He, having thought that
Cicero had been too highly praised by Middleton, and too harshly handled by subsequent critics,
has apparently written his book with the object of setting right these exaggerations. But in
his comments on this matter of Brutus and Scaptius he seems to me not to have considered the
difference in that standard of honor and honesty which governs himself, and that which prevailed
in the time of Cicero. Not seeing, as I think, how impossible it was for a Roman governor to
have achieved that impartiality of justice with which a long course of fortunate training has
imbued an English judge, he accuses Cicero of "trifling with equity." The marvel to me is that
one man such as Cicero--a man single in his purpose--should have been able to raise his own
ideas of justice so high above the level prevailing with the best of those around him. It had
become the nature of a Roman aristocrat to pillage an ally till hardly the skin should be left
to cover the man's bones. Out of this nature Cicero elevated himself completely. In his own
conduct he was free altogether from stain. The question here arose how far he could dare to
go on offending the instincts, the habits, the nature, of other noble Romans, in protecting
from their rapacity the poor subjects who were temporarily beneath his charge. It is easy for
a judge to stand indifferent between a great man and a little when the feelings of the world
around him are in favor of such impartiality; but it must have been hard enough to do so when
such conduct seemed to the noblest Romans of the day to be monstrous, fanatical, and pretentious.

In this case Brutus, our old friend whom all English readers have so much admired because he
dared to tell his brother-in-law Cassius that he was

  "Much condemned to have an itching palm,"

appears before us in the guise of an usurious money-lender. It would be hard in the history
of usury to come across the well-ascertained details of a more grasping, griping usurer. His
practice had been of the kind which we may have been accustomed to hear rebuked with the scathing
indignation of our just judges. But yet Brutus was accounted one of the noblest Romans of the
day, only second, if second, to Cato in general virtue and philosophy. In this trade of money-lending
the Roman nobleman had found no more lucrative business than that of dealing with the municipalities
of the allies. The cities were peopled by a money-making, commercial race, but they were subjected
to the grinding impositions of their governors. Under this affliction they were constantly
driven to borrow money, and found the capitalists who supplied it among the class by whom they
were persecuted and pillaged. A Brutus lent the money which an Appius exacted--and did not
scruple to do so at forty-eight per cent., although twelve per cent. per annum, or one per
cent. per month, was the rate of interest permitted by law.

But a noble Roman such as Brutus did not carry on his business of this nature altogether in
his own name. Brutus dealt with the municipality of Salamis in the island of Cyprus, and there
had two agents, named Scaptius and Matinius, whom he specially recommended to Cicero as creditors
of the city of Salamis, praying Cicero, as governor of the province, to assist these men in
obtaining the payment of their debts.[103] This was quite usual, but it was only late in the
transaction that Cicero became aware that the man really looking for his money was the noble
Roman who gave the recommendation. Cicero's letter tells us that Scaptius came to him, and
that he promised that for Brutus's sake he would take care that the people of Salamis should
pay their debt.[104] Scaptius thanked him, and asked for an official position in Salamis which
would have given him the power of compelling the payment by force. Cicero refused, explaining
that he had determined to give no such offices in his province to persons engaged in trade.
He had refused such requests already--even to Pompey and to Torquatus. Appius had given the
same man a military command in Salamis--no doubt also at the instance of Brutus--and the people
of Salamis had been grievously harassed. Cicero had heard of this, and had recalled the man
from Cyprus. Of this Scaptius had complained bitterly, and at last he and delegates from Salamis
who were willing to pay their debt, if they could only do it without too great extortion, went
together to Cicero who was then at Tarsus, in the most remote part of his province. Here he
was called upon to adjudicate in the matter, Scaptius trusting to the influence which Brutus
would naturally have with his friend the governor, and the men of Salamis to the reputation
for justice which Cicero had already created for himself in Cilicia. The reader must also be
made to understand that Cicero had been entreated by Atticus to oblige Brutus, who was specially
the friend of Atticus. He must remember also that this narrative is sent by Cicero to Atticus,
who exhorted his correspondent, even with tears in his eyes, to be true to his honor in the
government of his province.[105] He is appealing from Atticus to Atticus. I am bound to oblige
you--but how can I do so in opposition to your own lessons? That is his argument to Atticus.

Then there arises a question as to the amount of money due. The principal is not in dispute,
but the interest. The money has been manifestly lent on an understanding that four per cent.
per month, or forty-eight per cent. per annum, should be charged on it. But there has been
a law passed that higher interest than one per cent. per month, or twelve per cent. per annum,
shall not be legal. There has, however, been a counter decree made in regard to these very
Salaminians, and made apparently at the instigation of Brutus, saying that any contract with
them shall be held in force, notwithstanding the law. But Cicero again has made a decree that
he will authorize no exaction above twelve per cent. in his province. The exact condition of
the legal claim is less clear to me than to Mr. Forsyth, who has the advantage of being a lawyer.
Be that as it may, Cicero decides that twelve per cent. shall be exacted, and orders the Salaminians
to pay the amount. To his request they demur, but at last agree to obey, alleging that they
are enabled to do so by Cicero's own forbearance to them, Cicero having declined to accept
the presents which had been offered to him from the island.[106] They will therefore pay this
money in some sort, as they say, out of the governor's own pocket.

But when the sum is fixed, Scaptius, finding that he cannot get it over-reckoned after some
fraudulent scheme of his own, declines to receive it. If with the assistance of a friendly
governor he cannot do better than that for himself and his employer, things must be going badly
with Roman noblemen. But the delegates are now very anxious to pay this money, and offer to
deposit it. Scaptius begs that the affair shall go no farther at present, no doubt thinking
that he may drive a better bargain with some less rigid future governor. The delegates request
to be allowed to place their money as paid in some temple, by doing which they would acquit
themselves of all responsibility; but Cicero begs them to abstain. "Impetravi ab Salaminiis
ut silerent," he says. "I shall be grieved, indeed, that Brutus should be angry with me," he
writes; "but much more grieved that Brutus should have proved himself to be such as I shall
have found him."

Then comes the passage in his letter on the strength of which Mr. Forsyth has condemned Cicero,
not without abstract truth in his condemnation: "They, indeed, have consented"--that is the
Salaminians--"but what will befall them if some such governor as Paulus should come here? And
all this I have done for the sake of Brutus!" Æmilius Paulus was the Consul, and might probably
have Cilicia as a province, and would no doubt give over the Salaminians to Brutus and his
myrmidons without any compunction. In strictness--with that assurance in the power of law by
means of which our judges are enabled to see that their righteous decisions shall be carried
out without detriment to themselves--Cicero should have caused the delegates from Salamis instantly
to have deposited their money in the temple. Instead of doing so, he had only declared the
amount due according to his idea of justice--in opposition to all Romans, even to Atticus--and
had then consented to leave the matter, as for some further appeal. Do we not know how impossible
it is for a man to abide strictly by the right, when the strict right is so much in advance
of all around him as to appear to other eyes than his own as straitlaced, unpractical, fantastic,
and almost inhuman? Brutus wanted his money sorely, and Brutus was becoming a great political
power on the same side with Pompey, and Cato, and the other "optimates." Even Atticus was interfering
for Brutus. What other Roman governor of whom we have heard would have made a question on the
subject? Appius had lent a guard of horse-soldiers to this Scaptius with which he had outraged
all humanity in Cyprus--had caused the councillors of the city to be shut up till they would
come to obedience, in doing which he had starved five of them to death! Nothing had come of
this, such being the way with the Romans in their provinces. Yet Cicero, who had come among
these poor wretches as an unheard-of blessing from heaven, is held up to scorn because he "trifled
with equity!" Equity with us runs glibly on all fours. With Appius in Cilicia it was utterly
unknown. What are we to say of the man who, by the strength of his own conscience and by the
splendor of his own intellect, could advance so far out of the darkness of his own age, and
bring himself so near to the light of ours!

Let us think for a moment of our own Francis Bacon, a man more like to Cicero than any other
that I can remember in history. They were both great lawyers, both statesmen, both men affecting
the omne scibile, and coming nearer to it than perhaps any other whom we can name; both patriots,
true to their conceived idea of government, each having risen from obscure position to great
power, to wealth, and to rank; each from his own education and his nature prone to compromise,
intimate with human nature, not over-scrupulous either as to others or as to himself. They
were men intellectually above those around them, to a height of which neither of them was himself
aware. To flattery, to admiration, to friendship, and to love each of them was peculiarly susceptible.
But one failed to see that it behooved him, because of his greatness, to abstain from taking
what smaller men were grasping; while the other swore to himself from his very outset that
he would abstain--and kept the oath which he had sworn. I am one who would fain forgive Bacon
for doing what I believe that others did around him; but if I can find a man who never robbed,
though all others around him did--in whose heart the "auri sacra fames" had been absolutely
quenched, while the men with whom he had to live were sickening and dying with an unnatural
craving--then I seem to have recognized a hero.

Another complaint is made against Cicero as to Ariobarzanes, the King of Cappadocia, and is
founded, as are all complaints against Cicero, on Cicero's own telling of the story in question.
Why there should have been complaint in this matter I have not been able to discover. Ariobarzanes
was one of those Eastern kings who became milch cows to the Roman nobles, and who, in their
efforts to satisfy the Roman nobles, could only fleece their own subjects. The power of this
king to raise money seems to have been limited to about £8000 a month.[107] Out of this he
offered a part to Cicero as the Proconsul who was immediately over him. This Cicero declined,
but pressed the king to pay the money to the extortionate Brutus, who was a creditor, and who
endeavored to get this money through Cicero. But Pompey also was a creditor, and Pompey's name
was more dreadful to the king than that of Brutus. Pompey, therefore, got it all, though we
are told that it was not enough to pay him his interest; but Pompey, getting it all, was graciously
pleased to be satisfied "Cnæus noster clementer id fert." "Our Cicero puts up with that, and
asks no questions about the capital," says Cicero, ironically. Pompey was too wise to kill
the goose that laid such golden eggs. Nevertheless, we are told that Cicero, in this case,
abused his proconsular authority in favor of Brutus. Cicero effected nothing for Brutus; but,
when there was a certain amount of plunder to be divided among the Romans, refused any share
for himself. Pompey got it all, but not by Cicero's aid.

There is another long letter, in which Cicero again, for the third time, tells the story of
Brutus and Scaptius.[108] I mention it, as he continues to describe his own mode of doing his
work. He has been at Laodicea from February to May, deciding questions that had been there
brought before him from all parts of his province except Cilicia proper. The cities which had
been ground down by debt have been enabled to free themselves, and then to live under their
own laws. This he has done by taking nothing from them for his own expenses--not a farthing.
It is marvellous to see how the municipalities have sprung again into life under this treatment.
"He has been enabled by this to carry on justice without obstruction and without severity.
Everybody has been allowed approach to him--a custom which has been unknown in the provinces.
There has been no back-stairs influence. He has walked openly in his own courts, as he used
to do when a candidate at home. All this has been grateful to the people, and much esteemed;
nor has it been too laborious to himself, as he had learned the way of it in his former life."
It was thus that Cicero governed Cilicia.

There are further letters to Appius and Cælius, written from various parts of the province,
which cannot fail to displease us because we feel that Cicero is endeavoring to curry favor.
He wishes to stand well with those who might otherwise turn against him on his reappearance
in Rome. He is afraid lest Appius should be his enemy and lest Pompey should not be his friend.
The practice of justice and of virtue would, he knew, have much less effect in Rome than the
friendship and enmity of such men. But to Atticus he bursts out into honest passion against
Brutus. Brutus had recommended to him one Gavius, whom, to oblige Brutus, he appointed to some
office. Gavius was greedy, and insolent when his greed was not satisfied. "You have made me
a prefect," said Gavius; "where am I to go for my rations?" Cicero tells him that as he has
done no work he will get no pay; whereupon Gavius, quite unaccustomed to such treatment, goes
off in a huff. "If Brutus can be stirred by the anger of such a knave as this," he says to
Atticus, "you may love him, if you will, yourself; you will not find me a rival for his friendship."[109]
Brutus, however, became a favorite with Cicero, because he had devoted himself to literature.
In judging these two men we should not lean too heavily on Brutus, because he did no worse
than his neighbors. But then, how are we to judge of Cicero?

In the latter months of his government there began a new trouble, in which it is difficult
to sympathize with him, because we are unable to produce in our own minds a Roman's estimation
of Roman things. With true spirit he had laughed at his own military doings at Pindenissum;
but not the less on that account was he anxious to enjoy the glories of a triumph, and to be
dragged through the city on a chariot, with military trophies around him, as from time immemorial
the Roman conquerors had been dragged when they returned from their victories.

For the old barbaric conquerors this had been fine enough. A display of armor--of helmets,
of shields, and of swords--a concourse of chariots, of trumpets, and of slaves, of victims
kept for the Tarpeian rock, the spoils and rapine of battle, the self-asserting glory of the
big fighting hero, the pride of bloodshed, and the boasting over fallen cities, had been fit
for men who had in their hearts conceived nothing greater than military renown. Our sympathies
go along with a Camillus or a Scipio steeped in the blood of Rome's enemies. A Marius, a Pompey,
and again a few years afterward a Cæsar, were in their places as they were dragged along the
Via Sacra up to the Capitol amid the plaudits of the city, in commemoration of their achievements
in arms; but it could not be so with Cicero. "Concedat laurea linguæ" had been the watchword
of his life. "Let the ready tongue and the fertile brain be held in higher honor than the strong
right arm." That had been the doctrine which he had practised successfully. To him it had been
given to know that the lawyer's gown was raiment worthier of a man than the soldier's breastplate.
How, then, could it be that he should ask for so small a thing as a triumph in reward for so
small a deed as that done at Pindenissum? But it had become the way with all Proconsuls who
of late years had been sent forth from Rome into the provinces. Men to whose provincial government
a few cohorts were attached aspired to be called "Imperator" by their soldiers after mock battles,
and thought that, as others had followed up their sham victories with sham triumphs, it should
be given to them to do the same. If Bibulus triumphed it would be a disgrace to Cicero not
to triumph. We measure our expected rewards not by our own merits but by the good things which
have been conceded to others. To have returned from Pindenissum and not to be allowed the glory
of trumpets would be a disgrace, in accordance with the theory then prevailing in Rome on such
matters; therefore Cicero demanded a triumph.

In such a matter it was in accordance with custom that the General should send an immediate
account of his victorious doings, demand a "supplication," and have the triumph to be decreed
to him or not after his return home. A supplication was in form a thanksgiving to the gods
for the great favor shown by them to the State, but in fact took the guise of public praise
bestowed upon the man by whose hands the good had been done. It was usually a reward for military
success, but in the affair of Catiline a supplication had been decreed to Cicero for saving
the city, though the service rendered had been of a civil nature. Cicero now applied for a
supplication, and obtained it. Cato opposed it, and wrote a letter to Cicero explaining his
motives--upon high republican principles. Cicero might have endured this more easily had not
Cato voted for a supplication in honor of Bibulus, whose military achievements had, as Cicero
thought, been less than his own. One Hirrus opposed it also, but in silence, having intended
to allege that the numbers slain by Cicero in his battles were not sufficient to justify a
supplication. We learn that, according to strict rule, two thousand dead men should have been
left on the field. Cicero's victims had probably been much fewer; nevertheless the supplication
was granted, and Cicero presumed that the triumph would follow as a matter of course. Alas,
there came grievous causes to interfere with the triumph!

Of all that went on at Rome Cælius continued to send Cicero accounts. The Triumvirate was now
over. Cælius says that Pompey will not attack Cæsar openly, but that he does all he can to
prevent Cæsar from being elected Consul before he shall have given up his province and his
army.[110] For details Cælius refers him to a Commentarium--a word which has been translated
as meaning "newspaper" in this passage--by Melmoth. I think that there is no authority for
this idea, and that the commentary was simply the compilation of Cælius, as were the commentaries
we so well know the compilation of Cæsar. The Acta Diurna were published by authority, and
formed an official gazette. These no doubt reached Cicero, but were very different in their
nature from the private record of things which he obtained from his friend.

There are passages in Greek, in two letters[111] written about this time to Atticus, which
refer to the matter from which probably arose his quarrel with his wife, and her divorce. He
makes no direct allusion to his wife, but only to a freedman of hers, Philotomus. When Milo
was convicted, his goods were confiscated and sold as a part of his punishment. Philotomus
is supposed to have been a purchaser, and to have made money out of the transaction--taking
advantage of his position to acquire cheap bargains--as should not have been done by any one
connected with Cicero, who had been Milo's friend. The cause of Cicero's quarrel with his wife
has never been absolutely known, but it is supposed to have arisen from her want of loyalty
to him in regard to money. She probably employed this freedman in filling her pockets at the
expense of her husband's character.

[Sidenote: B.C. 50, ætat. 57.]

In his own letters he tells of preparations made for his return, and allusions are made as
to his expected triumph. He is grateful to Cælius as to what has been done as to the supplication,
and expresses his confidence that all the rest will follow.[112] He is so determined to hurry
away that he will not wait for the nomination of a successor, and resolves to put the government
into the hands of any one of his officers who may be least unfit to hold it. His brother Quintus
was his lieutenant, but if he left Quintus people would say of him that in doing so he was
still keeping the emoluments in his own hands. At last he determines to intrust it to a young
Quæstor named C. Cælius--no close connection of his friend Cælius, as Cicero finds himself
obliged to apologize for the selection to his friend. "Young, you will say. No doubt; but he
had been elected Quæstor, and is of noble birth."[113] So he gives over the province to the
young man, having no one else fitter.

Cicero tells us afterward, when at Athens on his way home, that he had considerable trouble
with his own people on withholding certain plunder which was regarded by them as their perquisite.
He had boasted much of their conduct--having taken exception to one Tullius, who had demanded
only a little hay and a little wood. But now there came to be pickings--savings out of his
own proconsular expenses--to part with which at the last moment was too hard upon them. "How
difficult is virtue," he exclaims; "how doubly difficult to pretend to act up to it when it
is not felt!"[114] There had been a certain sum saved which he had been proud to think that
he would return to the treasury. But the satellites were all in arms: "Ingemuit nostra cohors."
Nevertheless, he disregarded the "cohort," and paid the money into the treasury.

As to the sum thus saved, there has been a dispute which has given rise to some most amusing
literary vituperation. The care with which MSS. have been read now enables us to suppose that
it was ten hundred thousand sesterces--thus expressed, "H.S.X."--amounting to something over
£8000. We hear elsewhere, as will be mentioned again, that Cicero realized out of his own legitimate
allowance in Cilicia a profit of about £18,000; and we may imagine that the "cohort" should
think itself aggrieved in losing £8000 which they expected to have divided among them. Middleton
has made a mistake, having supposed the X to be CI[C] or M--a thousand instead of ten--and
quotes the sum saved as having amounted to eight hundred thousand instead of eight thousand
pounds. We who have had so much done for us by intervening research, and are but ill entitled
to those excuses for error which may fairly be put forward on Middleton's behalf, should be
slow indeed in blaming him for an occasional mistake, seeing how he has relieved our labors
by infinite toil on his part; but De Quincey, who has been very rancorous against Cicero, has
risen to a fury of wrath in his denunciation of Cicero's great biographer. "Conyers Middleton,"
he says, "is a name that cannot be mentioned without an expression of disgust." The cause of
this was that Middleton, a beneficed clergyman of the Church of England, and a Cambridge man,
differed from other Cambridge clergymen on controversial points and church questions. Bentley
was his great opponent--and as Bentley was a stout fighter, so was Middleton. Middleton, on
the whole, got the worst of it, because Bentley was the stronger combatant; but he seems to
have stood in good repute all his life, and when advanced in years was appointed Professor
of Natural History. He is known to us, however, only as the biographer of Cicero. Of this book,
Monk, the biographer of Middleton's great opponent, Bentley, declares that, "for elegance,
purity, and ease, Middleton's style yields to none in the English language." De Quincey says
of it that, by "weeding away from it whatever is colloquial, you would strip it of all that
is characteristic"--meaning, I suppose, that the work altogether wants dignity of composition.
This charge is, to my thinking, so absolutely contrary to the fact, that it needs only to be
named to be confuted by the opinion of all who have read the work. De Quincey pounces upon
the above-named error with profoundest satisfaction, and tells us a pleasant little story about
an old woman who thought that four million people had been once collected at Caernarvon. Middleton
had found the figure wrongly deciphered and wrongly copied for him, and had translated it as
he found it, without much thought. De Quincey thinks that the error is sufficient to throw
over all faith in the book: "It is in the light of an evidence against Middleton's good-sense
and thoughtfulness that I regard it as capital." That is De Quincey's estimate of Middleton
as a biographer. I regard him as a laborer who spared himself no trouble, who was enabled by
his nature to throw himself with enthusiasm into his subject, who knew his work as a writer
of English, and who, by a combination of erudition, intelligence, and industry, has left us
one of those books of which it may truly be said that no English library should be without it.

The last letter written by Cicero in Asia was sent to Atticus from Ephesus the day before he
started--on the last day, namely, of September. He had been delayed by winds and by want of
vessels large enough to carry him and his suite. News here reached him from Rome--news which
was not true in its details, but true enough in its spirit. In a letter to Atticus he speaks
of "miros terrores Cæsarianos"[115]--"dreadful reports as to outrages by Cæsar;" that he would
by no means dismiss his army; that he had with him the Prætors elect, one of the Tribunes,
and even one of the Consuls; and that Pompey had resolved to leave the city. Such were the
first tidings presaging Pharsalia. Then he adds a word about his triumph. "Tell me what you
think about this triumph, which my friends desire me to seek. I should not care about it if
Bibulus were not also asking for a triumph--Bibulus, who never put a foot outside his own doors
as long as there was an enemy in Syria!" Thus Cicero had to suffer untold misery because Bibulus
was asking for a triumph!

CHAPTER V.

THE WAR BETWEEN CÆSAR AND POMPEY.

What official arrangements were made for Proconsuls in regard to money, when in command of
a province, we do not know. The amounts allowed were no doubt splendid, but it was not to them
that the Roman governor looked as the source of that fortune which he expected to amass. The
means of plunder were infinite, but of plunder always subject to the danger of an accusation.
We remember how Verres calculated that he could divide his spoil into three sufficient parts--one
for the lawyers, one for the judges, so as to insure his acquittal, and then one for himself.
This plundering was common--so common as to have become almost a matter of course; but it was
illegal, and subjected some unfortunate culprits to exile, and to the disgorging of a part
of what they had taken. No accusation was made against Cicero. As to others there were constantly
threats, if no more than threats. Cicero was not even threatened. But he had saved out of his
legitimate expenses a sum equal to £18,000 of our money--from which we may learn how noble
were the appanages of a Roman governor. The expenses of all his staff passed through his own
hands, and many of those of his army. Any saving effected would therefore be to his own personal
advantage. On this money he counted much when his affairs were in trouble, as he was going
to join Pompey at Pharsalia in the following year. He then begged Atticus to arrange his matters
for him, telling him that the sum was at his call in Asia,[116] but he never saw it again:
Pompey borrowed it--or took it; and when Pompey had been killed the money was of course gone.

His brother Quintus was with him in Cilicia, but of his brother's doings there he says little
or nothing. We have no letters from him during the period to his wife or daughter. The latter
was married to her third husband, Dolabella, during his absence, with no opposition from Cicero,
but not in accordance with his advice. He had purposed to accept a proposition for her hand
made to him by Tiberius Nero, the young Roman nobleman who afterward married that Livia whom
Augustus took away from him even when she was pregnant, in order that he might marry her himself,
and who thus became the father of the Emperor Tiberius. It is worthy of remark at the same
time that the Emperor Tiberius married the granddaughter of Atticus. Cicero when in Cilicia
had wished that Nero should be chosen; but the family at home was taken by the fashion and
manners of Dolabella, and gave the young widow to him as her third husband when she was yet
only twenty-five. This marriage, like the others, was unfortunate. Dolabella, though fashionable,
nobly born, agreeable, and probably handsome, was thoroughly worthless. He was a Roman nobleman
of the type then common--heartless, extravagant, and greedy. His country, his party, his politics
were subservient, not to ambition or love of power, but simply to a desire for plunder. Cicero
tried hard to love him, partly for his daughter's sake, more perhaps from the necessity which
he felt for supporting himself by the power and strength of the aristocratic party to which
Dolabella belonged.

I cannot bring him back to Rome, and all that he suffered there, without declaring that much
of his correspondence during his government, especially during the latter months of it, and
the period of his journey home, is very distressing. I have told the story of his own doings,
I think, honestly, and how he himself abstained, and compelled those belonging to him to do
so; how he strove to ameliorate the condition of those under his rule; how he fully appreciated
the duty of doing well by others, so soon to be recognized by all Christians. Such humanity
on the part of a Roman at such a period is to me marvellous, beautiful, almost divine; but,
in eschewing Roman greed and Roman cruelty, he was unable to eschew Roman insincerity. I have
sometimes thought that to have done so it must have been necessary for him altogether to leave
public life. Why not? my readers will say. But in our days, when a man has mixed himself for
many years with all that is doing in public, how hard it is for him to withdraw, even though,
in withdrawing he fears no violence, no punishment, no exile, no confiscation. The arguments,
the prayers, the reproaches of those around him draw him back; and the arguments, the reproaches
from within are more powerful even than those from his friends. To be added to these is the
scorn, perhaps the ridicule, of his opponents. Such are the difficulties in the way of the
modern politician who thinks that he has resolved to retire; but the Roman ex-Consul, ex-Prætor,
ex-Governor had entered upon a mode of warfare in which his all, his life, his property, his
choice of country, his wife, his children, were open to the ready attacks of his eager enemies.
To have deserved well would be nothing, unless he could keep a party round him bound by mutual
interests to declare that he had deserved well. A rich man, who desired to live comfortably
beyond the struggle of public life, had to abstain, as Atticus had done, from increasing the
sores, from hurting the ambition, from crushing the hopes of aspirants. Such a man might be
safe, but he could not be useful; such, at any rate, had not been Cicero's life. In his earlier
days, till he was Consul, he had kept himself free from political interference in doing the
work of his life; but since that time he had necessarily put himself into competition with
many men, and had made many enemies by the courage of his opinions. He had found even those
he had most trusted opposed to him. He had aroused the jealousy not only of the Cæsars and
the Crassuses and the Pisos, but also of the Pompeys and Catos and Brutuses. Whom was he not
compelled to fear? And yet he could not escape to his books; nor, in truth, did he wish it.
He had made for himself a nature which he could not now control.

He had not been long in Cilicia before he knew well how cruel, how dishonest, how greedy, how
thoroughly Roman had been the conduct of his predecessor Appius. His letters to Atticus are
full of the truths which he had to tell on that matter. His conduct, too, with regard to Appius
was mainly right. As far as in him lay he endeavored to remedy the evils which the unjust Proconsul
had done, and to stop what further evil was still being done. He did not hesitate to offend
Appius when it was necessary to do so by his interference. But Appius was a great nobleman,
one of the "optimates," a man with a strong party at his back in Rome. Appius knew well that
Cicero's good word was absolutely necessary to save him from the ruin of a successful accusation.
Cicero knew also that the support of Appius would be of infinite service to him in his Roman
politics. Knowing this, he wrote to Appius letters full of flattery--full of falsehood, if
the plain word can serve our purpose better. Dolabella, the new son-in-law, had taken upon
himself, for some reason as to which it can hardly be worth our while to inquire, to accuse
Appius of malversation in his province. That Appius deserved condemnation there can be no doubt;
but in these accusations the contests generally took place not as to the proof of the guilt,
but as to the prestige and power of the accuser and the accused. Appius was tried twice on
different charges, and was twice acquitted; but the fact that his son-in-law should be the
accuser was fraught with danger to Cicero. He thought it necessary for the hopes which he then
entertained to make Appius understand that his son-in-law was not acting in concert with him,
and that he was desirous that Appius should receive all the praise which would have been due
to a good governor. So great was the influence of Appius at Rome that he was not only acquitted,
but shortly afterward elected Censor. The office of Censor was in some respects the highest
in Rome. The Censors were elected only once in four years, remaining in office for eighteen
months. The idea was that powers so arbitrary as these should be in existence only for a year
and a half out of each four years. Questions of morals were considered by them. Should a Senator
be held to have lived as did not befit a Senator, a Censor could depose him. As Appius was
elected Censor immediately after his acquittal, together with that Piso whom Cicero had so
hated, it may be understood that his influence was very great.[117] It was great enough to
produce from Cicero letters which were flattering and false. The man who had been able to live
with a humanity, a moderation, and an honesty befitting a Christian, had not risen to that
appreciation of the beauty of truth which an exercise of Christianity is supposed to exact.

"Sed quid agas? Sic vivitur!"[118]--"What would you have me do? It is thus we live now!" This
he exclaims in a letter to Cælius, written a short time before he left the province. "What
would you say if you read my last letter to Appius?" You would open your eyes if you knew how
I have flattered Appius--that was his meaning. "Sic vivitur!"--"It is so we live now." When
I read this I feel compelled to ask whether there was an opportunity for any other way of living.
Had he seen the baseness of lying as an English Christian gentleman is expected to see it,
and had adhered to truth at the cost of being a martyr, his conduct would have been high though
we might have known less of it; but, looking at all the circumstances of the period, have we
a right to think that he could have done so?

From Athens on his way home Cicero wrote to his wife, joining Tullia's name with hers. "Lux
nostra," he calls his daughter; "the very apple of my eye!" He had already heard from various
friends that civil war was expected. He will have to declare himself on his arrival--that is,
to take one side or the other--and the sooner he does so the better. There is some money to
be looked for--a legacy which had been left to him. He gives express directions as to the persons
to be employed respecting this, omitting the name of that Philotomus as to whose honesty he
is afraid. He calls his wife "suavissima et optatissima Terentia," but he does not write to
her with the true love which was expressed by his letters when in exile. From Athens, also,
where he seems to have stayed nearly two months, he wrote in December. He is easy, he says,
about his triumph unless Cæsar should interfere--but he does not care much about his triumph
now. He is beginning to feel the wearisomeness of the triumph; and indeed it was a time in
which the utter hollowness of triumphal pretensions must have made the idea odious to him.
But to have withdrawn would have been to have declared his own fears, his own doubts, his own
inferiority to the two men who were becoming declared as the rival candidates for Roman power.
We may imagine that at such a time he would gladly have gone in quiet to his Roman mansion
or to one of his villas, ridding himself forever of the trouble of his lictors, his fasces,
and all the paraphernalia of imperatorial dignity; but a man cannot rid himself of such appanages
without showing that he has found it necessary to do so. It was the theory of a triumph that
the victorious Imperator should come home hot (as it were) from the battle-field, with all
his martial satellites around him, and have himself carried at once through Rome. It was barbaric
and grand, as I have said before, but it required the martial satellites. Tradition had become
law, and the Imperator intending to triumph could not dismiss his military followers till the
ceremony was over. In this way Cicero was sadly hampered by his lictors when, on his landing
at Brundisium, he found that Italy was already preparing for her great civil war.

[Sidenote: B.C. 50, ætat. 57.]

Early in this year it had been again proposed in the Senate that Cæsar should give up his command.
At this time the two Consuls, L. Æmilius Paulus and C. Claudius Marcellus, were opposed to
Cæsar, as was also Curio, who had been one of Cicero's young friends, and was now Tribune.
But two of these Cæsar managed to buy by the payment of enormous bribes. Curio was the more
important of the two, and required the larger bribe. The story comes to us from Appian,[119]
but the modern reader will find it efficiently told by Mommsen.[120] The Consul had fifteen
hundred talents, or about £500,000! The sum named as that given by Cæsar to Curio was something
greater, because he was so deeply in debt! Bribes to the amount of above a million of money,
such as money is to us now, bestowed upon two men for their support in the Senate! It was worth
a man's while to be a Consul or a Tribune in those days. But the money was well earned--plunder,
no doubt, extracted from Gaul. The Senate decided that both Pompey and Cæsar should be required
to abandon their commands--or rather they adopted a proposal to that effect without any absolute
decree. But this sufficed for Cæsar, who was only anxious to be relieved from the necessity
of obeying any order from the Senate by the knowledge that Pompey also was ordered, and also
was disobedient. Then it was--in the summer of this year--that the two commanders were desired
by the Senate to surrender each of them a legion, or about three thousand men, under the pretence
that the forces were wanted for the Parthian war. The historians tell us that Pompey had lent
a legion to Cæsar, thus giving us an indication of the singular terms on which legions were
held by the proconsular officers who commanded them. Cæsar nobly sends up to Rome two legions,
the one as having been ordered to be restored by himself, and the other as belonging to Pompey.
He felt, no doubt, that a show of nobleness in this respect would do him better service than
the withholding of the soldiers. The men were stationed at Capua, instead of being sent to
the East, and no doubt drifted back into Cæsar's hands. The men who had served under Cæsar
would not willingly find themselves transferred to Pompey.

Cæsar in the summer came across the Alps into Cisalpine Gaul, which as yet had not been legally
taken from him, and in the autumn sat himself down at Ravenna, which was still within his province.
It was there that he had to meditate the crossing of the Rubicon and the manifestation of absolute
rebellion. Matters were in this condition when Cicero returned to Italy, and heard the corroboration
of the news as to the civil war which had reached him at Athens.

In a letter written from Athens, earlier than the one last quoted, Cicero declared to Atticus
that it would become him better to be conquered with Pompey than to conquer with Cæsar.[121]
The opinion here given may be taken as his guiding principle in politics till Pompey was no
more. Through all the doubts and vacillations which encumbered him, this was the rule not only
of his mind but of his heart. To him there was no Triumvirate: the word had never been mentioned
to his ears. Had Pompey remained free from Cæsar it would have been better. The two men had
come together, and Crassus had joined them. It was better for him to remain with them and keep
them right, than to stand away, angry and astray, as Cato had done. The question how far Cæsar
was justified in the position which he had taken up by certain alleged injuries, affected Cicero
less than it has done subsequent inquirers. Had an attempt been made to recall Cæsar illegally?
Was he subjected to wrong by having his command taken away from him before the period had passed
for which the people had given it? Was he refused indulgences to which the greatness of his
services entitled him--such as permission to sue for the Consulship while absent from Rome--while
that, and more than that, had been granted to Pompey? All these questions were no doubt hot
in debate at the time, but could hardly have affected much the judgment of Cicero, and did
not at all affect his conduct. Nor, I think, should they influence the opinions of those who
now attempt to judge the conduct of Cæsar. Things had gone beyond the domain of law, and had
fallen altogether into that of potentialities. Decrees of the Senate or votes of the people
were alike used as excuses. Cæsar, from the beginning of his career, had shown his determination
to sweep away as cobwebs the obligations which the law imposed upon him. It is surely vain
to look for excuses for a man's conduct to the practice of that injustice against him which
he has long practised against others. Shall we forgive a house-breaker because the tools which
he has himself invented are used at last upon his own door? The modern lovers of Cæsar and
of Cæsarism generally do not seek to wash their hero white after that fashion. To them it is
enough that the man has been able to trample upon the laws with impunity, and to be a law not
only to himself but to all the world around him. There are some of us who think that such a
man, let him be ever so great--let him be ever so just, if the infirmities of human nature
permit justice to dwell in the breast of such a man--will in the end do more harm than good.
But they who sit at the feet of the great commanders admire them as having been law-breaking,
not law-abiding. To say that Cæsar was justified in the armed position which he took in Northern
Italy in the autumn of this year, is to rob him of his praise. I do not suppose that he had
meditated any special line of policy during the years of hard work in Gaul, but I think that
he was determined not to relinquish his power, and that he was ready for any violence by which
he might preserve it.

If such was Cicero's idea of this man--if such the troubled outlook which he took into the
circumstances of the Empire--he thought probably but little of the legality of Cæsar's recall.
What would the Consuls do, what would Curio do, what would Pompey do, and what Cæsar? It was
of this that he thought. Had law-abiding then been possible, he would have been desirous to
abide by the law. Some nearest approach to the law would be the best. Cæsar had ignored all
laws, except so far as he could use them for his own purposes. Pompey, in conspiring with Cæsar,
had followed Cæsar's lead; but was desirous of using the law against Cæsar when Cæsar outstripped
him in lawlessness. But to Cicero there was still some hope of restraining Pompey. Pompey,
too, had been a conspirator, but not so notorious a conspirator as Cæsar. With Pompey there
would be some bond to the Republic; with Cæsar there could be none; therefore it was better
for him to fall with Pompey than to rise with Cæsar. That was his conviction till Pompey had
altogether fallen.

His journey homeward is made remarkable by letters to Tiro, his slave and secretary. Tiro was
taken ill, and Cicero was obliged to leave him at Patræ, in Greece. Whence he had come to Cicero
we do not know, or when; but he had not probably fallen under his master's peculiar notice
before the days of the Cilician government, as we find that on his arrival at Brundisium he
writes to Atticus respecting him as a person whom Atticus had not much known.[122] But his
affection for Tiro is very warm, and his little solicitudes for the man whom he leaves are
charming. He is to be careful as to what boat he takes, and under what captain he sails. He
is not to hurry. The doctor is to be consulted and well paid. Cicero himself writes various
letters to various persons, in order to secure that attention which Tiro could not have insured
unless so assisted.

Early in January Cicero reached the city, but could not enter it because of his still unsettled
triumph, and Cæsar crossed the little river which divided his province from the Roman territory.
The 4th of January is the date given for the former small event. For the latter I have seen
no precise day named, I presume that it was after the 6th, as on that day the Senate appointed
Domitian as his successor in his province. On this being done, the two Tribunes, Antony and
Cassius, hurried off to Cæsar, and Cæsar then probably crossed the stream. Cicero was appointed
to a command in Campania--that of raising levies, the duties of which were not officially repugnant
to his triumph.

His doings during the whole of this time were but little to his credit; but who is there whose
doings were to his credit at that period? The effect had been to take all power out of his
hand. Cæsar had given him up. Pompey could not do so, but we can imagine how willing Pompey
would have been that he should have remained in Cilicia. He had been sent there, out of the
way, but had hurried home again. If he would only have remained and plundered! If he would
only have remained there and have been honest--so that he would be out of the way! But here
he was--back in Italy, an honest, upright man! No one so utterly unlike the usual Roman, so
lost amid the self-seekers of Rome, so unnecessarily clean-handed, could be found! Cato was
honest, foolishly honest for his time; but with Cato it was not so difficult to deal as with
Cicero. We can imagine Cato wrapping himself up in his robe and being savagely unreasonable.
Cicero was all alive to what was going on in the world, but still was honest! In the mean time
he remained in the neighborhood of Naples, writing to his wife and daughter, writing to Tiro,
writing to Atticus, and telling us all those details which we now seem to know so well--because
he has told us. In one of his letters to Atticus at this time he is sadly in earnest. He will
die with Pompey in Italy, but what can he do by leaving it? He has his "lictors" with him still.
Oh, those dreadful lictors! His friendship for Cnæus! His fear of having to join himself with
the coming tyrant! "Oh that you would assist me with your counsel!"[123] He writes again, and
describes the condition of Pompey--of Pompey who had been Magnus. "See how prostrate he is.
He has neither courage, counsel, men, nor industry! Put aside those things; look at his flight
from the city, his cowardly harangues in the towns, his ignorance of his own strength and that
of his enemy! * * * Cæsar in pursuit of Pompey! Oh, sad! * * * Will he kill him?" he exclaims.
Then, still to Atticus, he defends himself. He will die for Pompey, but he does not believe
that he can do any good either to Pompey or to the Republic by a base flight. Then there is
another cause for staying in Italy as to which he cannot write. This was Terentia's conduct.
At the end of one of his letters he tells Atticus that with the same lamp by which he had written
would he burn that which Atticus had sent to him. In another he speaks of a Greek tutor who
has deserted him, a certain Dionysius, and he boils over with anger. His letters to Atticus
about the Greek tutor are amusing at this distance of time, because they show his eagerness.
"I never knew anything more ungrateful; and there is nothing worse than ingratitude."[124]

He heaps his scorn upon Pompey: "It is true, indeed, that I said that it was better to be conquered
with him than to conquer with those others. I would indeed. But of what Pompey was it that
I so spoke? Was it of this one who flies he knows not what, nor whom, nor whither he will fly?"[125]
He writes again the same day: "Pompey had fostered Cæsar, and then had feared him. He had left
the city; he had lost Picenum by his own fault, he had betaken himself to Apulia! Then he went
into Greece, leaving us in the dark as to his plans!" He excuses a letter of his own to Cæsar.
He had written to Cæsar in terms which might be pleasing to the great man. He had told Cæsar
of Cæsar's admirable wisdom. Was it not better so? He was willing that his letter should be
read aloud to all the people, if only those of Pompey might also be read aloud. Then follow
copies of a correspondence between him and Pompey. In the last he declares[126] that "when
he had written from Canusium he had not dreamed that Pompey was about to cross the sea. He
had known that Pompey had intended to treat for peace--for peace even under unjust conditions--but
he had never thought that Pompey was meditating a retreat out of Italy." He argues well and
stoutly, and does take us along with him. Pompey had been beaten back from point to point,
never once rallying himself against Cæsar. He had failed, and had slipped away, leaving a man
here and there to stand up for the Republic. Pompey was willing to risk nothing for Rome. It
had come to pass at last that he was being taught Cæsarism by Cæsar, and when he died was more
imperial than his master.

At this time Cicero's eyes were bad. "Mihi molestior lippitudo erat etiam quam ante fuerat."
And again, "Lippitudinis meæ signum tibi sit librarii manus." But we may doubt whether any
great men have lived so long with so little to tease them as to their health. And yet the amount
of work he got through was great. He must have so arranged his affairs as to have made the
most he could of his hours, and have carried in his memory information on all subjects. When
we remember the size of the books which he read, their unwieldy shapes, their unfitness for
such work as that of ours, there seems to have been a continuation of study such as we cannot
endure. Throughout his life his hours were early, but they must also have been late. Of his
letters we have not a half, of his speeches not a half, of his treatises not more than a half.
When he was abroad during his exile, or in Cilicia during his government, he could not have
had his books with him. That Cæsar should have been Cæsar, or Pompey Pompey, does not seem
to me a matter so difficult as that Cicero should have been Cicero. Then comes that letter
of which I spoke in my first chapter, in which he recapitulates the Getæ, the Armenians, and
the men of Colchis. "Shall I, the savior of the city, assist to bring down upon that city those
hordes of foreign men? Shall I deliver it up to famine and to destruction for the sake of one
man who is no more than mortal?"[127] It was Pompey as to whom he then asked the question.
For Pompey's sake am I to let in these crowds? We have been told, indeed, by Mr. Froude that
the man was Cæsar, and that Cicero wrote thus anxiously with the special object of arranging
his death!

"Now, if ever, think what we shall do," he says. "A Roman army sits round Pompey and makes
him a prisoner within valley and rampart--and shall we live? The city stands; the Prætors give
the law, the Ædiles keep up the games, good men look to their principal and their interest.
Shall I remain sitting here? Shall I rush hither and thither madly, and implore the credit
of the towns? Men of substance will not follow me. The revolutionists will arrest me. Is there
any end to this misery? People will point at me and say, 'How wise he was not to go with him.'
I was not wise. Of his victory I never wished to be the comrade--yet now I do of his sorrow."[128]

[Sidenote: B.C. 49, ætat. 58.]

Pompey had crossed the sea from Brundisium, and Cæsar had retreated across Italy to Capua.
As he was journeying he saw Cicero, and asked him to go to Rome. This Cicero refused, and Cæsar
passed on. "I must then use other counsels," said Cæsar, thus leaving him for the last time
before the coming battle. Cicero went on to Arpinum, and there heard the nightingales. From
that moment he resolved. He had not thought it possible that when the moment came he should
have been able to prevail against Cæsar's advice; but he had done so. He had feared that Cæsar
would overcome him; but when the moment came he was strong against even Cæsar. He gave his
boy his toga, or, as we should say, made a man of him. He was going after Pompey, not for the
sake of Pompey, not for the sake of the Republic, but for loyalty. He was going because Atticus
had told him to go. But as he is going there came fresh ground for grief. He writes to Atticus
about the two boys, his son and nephew. The one is good by nature, and has not yet gone astray.
The other, the elder and his nephew, has been encouraged by this uncle's indulgence, and has
openly adopted evil ways. In other words, he has become Cæsarian--for a reward.[129] The young
Quintus has shown himself to be very false. Cicero is so bound together with his family in
their public life that this falling off of one of them makes him unhappy. Then Curio comes
the way, and there is a most interesting conversation. It seems that Curio, who is fond of
Cicero, tells him everything; but Cicero, who doubts him, lets him pass on. Then Cælius writes
to him. Cælius implores him, for the sake of his children, to bear in mind what he is doing.
He tells him much of Cæsar's anger, and asks him if he cannot become Cæsarian; at any rate
to betake himself to some retreat till the storm shall pass by and quieter days should come.
But Cælius, though it had suited Cicero to know him intimately, had not read the greatness
of the man's mind. He did not understand in the least the difficulty which pervaded Cicero.
To Cælius it was play--play in which a man might be beaten, or banished, or slaughtered; but
it was a game in which men were fighting each for himself. That there should be a duty in the
matter, beyond that, was inexplicable to Cælius. And his children, too--his anger against young
Quintus and his forgiveness of Marcus! He thinks that Quintus had been purchased by a large
bribe on Cæsar's side, and is thankful that it is no worse with him. What can have been worse
to a young man than to have been open to such payment? Antony is frequently on the scene, and
already disgusts us by the vain frivolity and impudence of his life. And then Cicero's eyes
afflict him, and he cannot see. Servius Sulpicius comes to him weeping. For Servius, who is
timid and lachrymose, everything has gone astray. And then there is that Dionysius who had
plainly told him that he desired to follow some richer or some readier master. At the last
comes the news of his Tullia's child's birth. She is brought to bed of a son. He cannot, however,
wait to see how the son thrives. From the midst of enemies, and with spies around him, he starts.
There is one last letter written to his wife and daughter from on board the ship at Caieta,
sending them many loves and many careful messages, and then he is off.

It was now the 11th of June, the third day before the ides, B.C. 49, and we hear nothing special
of the events of his journey. When he reached the camp, which he did in safety, he was not
well received there. He had given his all to place himself along with Pompey in the republican
quarters, and when there the republicans were unwilling to welcome him. Pompey would have preferred
that he should have remained away, so as to be able to say hereafter that he had not come.

Of what occurred to Cicero during the great battle which led to the solution of the Roman question
we know little or nothing. We hear that Cicero was absent, sick at Dyrrachium, but there are
none of those tirades of abuse with which such an absence might have been greeted. We hear,
indeed, from other sources, very full accounts of the fighting--how Cæsar was nearly conquered,
how Pompey might have prevailed had he had the sense to take the good which came in his way,
how he failed to take it, how he was beaten, and how, in the very presence of his wife, he
was murdered at last at the mouth of the Nile by the combined energies of a Roman and a Greek.

We can imagine how the fate of the world was decided on the Pharsalus where the two armies
met, and the victory remained with Cæsar. Then there were weepings and gnashings of teeth,
and there were the congratulations and self-applause of the victors. In all Cicero's letters
there is not a word of it. There was terrible suffering before it began, and there is the sense
of injured innocence on his return, but nowhere do we find any record of what took place. There
is no mourning for Pompey, no turning to Cæsar as the conqueror. Petra has been lost, and Pharsalia
has been won, but there is no sign.

[Sidenote: B.C. 48, ætat. 59.]

Cicero, we know, spent the time at Dyrrachium close to which the battle of Petra was fought,
and went from thence to Corcyra. There invitation was made to him, as the senior consular officer
present, to take the command of the beaten army, but that he declined. We are informed that
he was nearly killed in the scuffle which took place. We can imagine that it was so--that in
the confusion and turmoil which followed he should have been somewhat roughly told that it
behooved him to take the lead and to come forth as the new commander; that there should be
a time at last in which no moment should be allowed him for doubt, but that he should doubt,
and, after more or less of reticence, pass on. Young Pompey would have it so. What name would
be so good to bind together the opponents of Cæsar as that of Cicero? But Cicero would not
be led. It seems that he was petulant and out of sorts at the time; that he had been led into
the difficulty of the situation by his desire to be true to Pompey, and that he was only able
to escape from it now that Pompey was gone. We can well imagine that there should be no man
less able to fight against Cæsar, though there was none whose name might be so serviceable
to use as that of Cicero. At any rate, as far as we are concerned, there was silence on the
subject on his part. He wrote not a word to any of the friends whom Pompey had left behind
him, but returned to Italy dispirited, silent, and unhappy. He had indeed met many men since
the battle of the Pharsalus, but to none of whom we are conversant had he expressed his thoughts
regarding that great campaign.

Here we part from Pompey, who ran from the fighting-ground of Macedonia to meet his doom in
the roads of Alexandria. Never had man risen so high in his youth to be extinguished so ingloriously
in his age. He was born in the same year with Cicero, but had come up quicker into the management
of the world's affairs, so as to have received something from his equals of that which was
due to age. Habit had given him that ease of manners which enabled him to take from those who
should have been his compeers the deference which was due not to his age but to his experience.
When Cicero was entering the world, taking up the cudgels to fight against Sulla, Pompey had
already won his spurs, in spite of Sulla but by means of Sulla. Men in these modern days learn,
as they grow old in public life, to carry themselves with indifference among the backslidings
of the world. In reading the life of Cicero, we see that it was so then. When defending Amerinus,
we find the same character of man as was he who afterward took Milo's part. There is the same
readiness, the same ingenuity, and the same high indignation; but there is not the same indifference
as to results. With Amerinus it is as though all the world depended on it; with Milo he felt
it to be sufficient to make the outside world believe it. When Pompey triumphed, 70 B.C., and
was made Consul for the second time, he was already old in glory--when Cicero had not as yet
spoken those two orations against Verres which had made the speaking of another impossible.
Pompey, we may say, had never been young. Cicero was never old. There was no moment in his
life in which Cicero was not able to laugh with the Curios and the Cæliuses behind the back
of the great man. There was no moment in which Pompey could have done so. He who has stepped
from his cradle on to the world's high places has lost the view of those things which are only
to be seen by idle and luxurious young men of the day. Cicero did not live for many years beyond
Pompey, but I doubt whether he did not know infinitely more of men. To Pompey it had been given
to rule them; but to Cicero to live with them.

CHAPTER VI.

AFTER THE BATTLE.

[Sidenote: B.C. 48, ætat. 59.]

In the autumn of this year Cicero had himself landed at Brundisium. He remained nearly a year
at Brundisium, and it is melancholy to think how sad and how long must have been the days with
him. He had no country when he reached the nearest Italian port; it was all Cæsar's, and Cæsar
was his enemy. There had been a struggle for the masterdom between two men, and of the two
the one had beaten with whom Cicero had not ranged himself. He had known how it would be. All
the Getæ, and the men of Colchis, and the Armenians, all the lovers of the fish-ponds and those
who preferred the delicacies of Baiæ to the work of the Forum, all who had been taught to think
that there were provinces in order that they might plunder, men who never dreamed of a country
but to sell it, all those whom Cæsar was determined either to drive out of Italy or keep there
in obedience to himself, had been brought together in vain. We already know, when we begin
to read the story, how it will be with them and with Cæsar. On Cæsar's side there is an ecstasy
of hope carried to the very brink of certainty; on the other is that fainting spirit of despair
which no battalions can assuage. We hear of no Scæva and of no Crastinus on Pompey's side.
Men change their nature under such leading as was that of Cæsar. The inferior men become heroic
by contact with the hero; but such heroes when they come are like great gouts of blood dabbled
down upon a fair cloth. Who that has eyes to see can look back upon the career of such a one
and not feel an agony of pain as the stern man passes on without a ruffled face, after ordering
the right hands of those who had fought at Uxellodunum to be chopped off at the wrist, in order
that men might know what was the penalty of fighting for their country?

There are men--or have been, from time to time, in all ages of the world--let loose, as it
were, by the hand of God to stop the iniquities of the people, but in truth the natural product
of those iniquities. They have come and done their work, and have died, leaving behind them
the foul smell of destruction. An Augustus followed Cæsar, and him Tiberius, and so on to a
Nero. It was necessary that men should suffer much before they were brought back to own their
condition. But they who can see a Cicero struggling to avoid the evil that was coming--not
for himself but for the world around him--and can lend their tongues, their pens, their ready
wits to ridicule his efforts, can hardly have been touched by the supremacy of human suffering.

It must have been a sorry time with him at Brundisium. He had to stay there waiting till Cæsar's
pleasure had been made known to him, and Cæsar was thinking of other things. Cæsar was away
in Egypt and the East, encountering perils at Alexandria which, if all be true that we have
heard, imply that he had lived to be past fear. Grant that a man has to live as Cæsar did,
and it will be well that he should be past fear. At any rate he did not think of Cicero, or
thinking of him felt that he was one who must be left to brood in silence over the choice he
had made. Cicero did brood--not exactly in silence--over the things that fate had done for
him and for his country. For himself, he was living in Italy, and yet could not venture to
betake himself to one of the eighteen villas which, as Middleton tells us, he had studded about
the country for his pastime. There were those at Tusculum, Antium, Astura, Arpinum--at Formiæ,
at Cumæ, at Puteoli, and at Pompeii. Those who tell us of Cicero's poverty are surely wandering,
carried away by their erroneous notions of what were a Roman nobleman's ideas as to money.
At no period of his life do we find Cicero not doing what he was minded to do for want of money,
and at no period is there a hint that he had allowed himself in any respect to break the law.
It has been argued that he must have been driven to take fees and bribes and indirect payments,
because he says that he wanted money. It was natural that he should occasionally want money,
and yet be in the main indifferent. The incoming of a regular revenue was not understood as
it is with us. A man here and there might attend to his money, as did Atticus. Cicero did not;
and therefore, when in want of it, he had to apply to a friend for relief. But he always applies
as one who knows well that the trouble is not enduring. Is it credible that a man so circumstanced
should have remained with those various sources of extravagance which it would have been easy
for him to have avoided or lessened? We are led to the conviction that at no time was it expedient
to him to abandon his villas, though in the hurry-scurry of Roman affairs it did now and again
become necessary for him to apply to Atticus for accommodation. Let us think what must have
been Cæsar's demands for money. Of these we hear nothing, because he was too wise to have an
Atticus to whom he wrote everything, or too wary to write letters upon business which should
be treasured for the curiosity of after-ages.

To be hopeful and then tremulous; to be eager after success and then desponding; to have believed
readily every good and then, as readily, evil; to have relied implicitly on a man's faith,
and then to have turned round and declared how he had been deceived; to have been very angry
and then to have forgiven--this seems to have been Cicero's nature. Verres, Catiline, Clodius,
Piso, and Vatinius seem to have caused his wrath; but was there one of them against whom, though
he did not forgive him, his anger did not die out? Then, at last, he was moved to an internecine
fight with Antony. Is there any one who has read the story which we are going to tell who will
not agree with us that, if after Mutina Octavius had thought fit to repudiate Antony and to
follow Cicero's counsels, Antony would not have been spared?

Nothing angers me so much in describing Cicero as the assertion that he was a coward. It has
sprung from a wrong idea of what constitutes cowardice. He did not care to fight; but are all
men cowards who do not care to fight when work can be so much better done by talking? He saw
that fighting was the work fit for men of common clay, or felt it if he did not see it. When
men rise to such a pitch as that which he filled, and Cæsar and Pompey, and some few others
around them, their greatest danger does not consist in fighting. A man's tongue makes enemies
more bitter than his sword. But Cicero, when the time came, never shirked his foe. Whether
it was Verres or Catiline, or Clodius or Antony, he was always there, ready to take that foe
by the throat, and ready to offer his own in return. At moments such as that there was none
of the fear which stands aghast at the wrath of the injured one, and makes the man who is a
coward quail before the eyes of him who is brave.

His friendship for Pompey is perhaps, of all the strong feelings of his life, the one most
requiring excuse, and the most difficult to excuse. For myself I can see why it was so; but
I cannot do that without acknowledging in it something which derogated from his greatness.
Had he risen above Pompey, he would have been great indeed; for I look upon it as certain that
he did see that Pompey was as untrue to the Republic as Cæsar. He saw it occasionally, but
it was not borne in upon him at all times that Pompey was false. Cæsar was not false. Cæsar
was an open foe. I doubt whether Pompey ever saw enough to be open. He never realized to himself
more than men. He never rose to measures--much less to the reason for them. When Cæsar had
talked him over, and had induced him to form the Triumvirate, Pompey's politics were gone.
Cicero never blanched. Whether, full of new hopes, he attacked Chrysogonus with all the energy
of one to whom his injured countrymen were dear, or, with the settled purpose of his life,
he accused Verres in the teeth of the coming Consul Hortensius; whether in driving out Catiline,
or in defending Milo; whether, even, in standing up before Cæsar for Marcellus, or in his final
onslaught upon Antony, his purpose was still the same. As time passed on he took to himself
coarser weapons, and went down into the arena and fought the beasts at Ephesus. Alas, it is
so with mankind! Who can strive to do good and not fight beasts? And who can fight them but
after some fashion of their own? He was fighting beasts at Ephesus when he was defending Milo.
He was an oligarch, but he wanted the oligarchy round him to be true and honest! It was impossible.
These men would not be just, and yet he must use them. Milo and Cælius and Curio were his friends.
He knew them to be bad, but he could not throw off from him all that were bad men. If by these
means he could win his way to something that might be good, he would pardon their evil. As
we make our way on to the end of his life we find that his character becomes tarnished, and
that his high feelings are blunted by the party which he takes and the men with whom he associates.

He did not, indeed, fall away altogether. The magistracy offered to him, the lieutenancy offered
to him, the "free legation" offered to him, the last appeal made to him that he would go to
Rome and speak a few words--or that he would stay away and remain neutral--did not move him.
He did not turn conspirator and then fight for the prize, as Pompey had done. But he had, for
so many years, clung to Pompey as the leader of a party; had had it so dinned into his ears
that all must depend on Pompey; had found himself so bound up with the man who, when appealed
to as to his banishment, had sullenly told him he could only do as Cæsar would have him; whom
he had felt to be mean enough to be stigmatized as Sampsiceramus, him of Jerusalem, the hero
of Arabia; whom he knew to be desirous of doing with his enemies as Sulla had done with his--that,
in spite of it all, he clung to him still!

I cannot but blame Cicero for this, but yet I can excuse it. It is hard to have to change your
leader after middle life, and Cicero could only have changed his by becoming a leader himself.
We can see how hopeless it was. Would it not have been mean had he allowed those men to go
and fight in Macedonia without him? Who would have believed in him had he seemed to be so false?
Not Cato, not Brutus, not Bibulus, not Scipio, not Marcellus. Such men were the leaders of
the party of which he had been one. Would they not say that he had remained away because he
was Cæsar's man? He must follow either Cæsar or Pompey. He knew that Pompey was beaten. There
are things which a man knows, but he cannot bring himself to say so even to himself. He went
out to fight on the side already conquered; and when the thing was done he came home with his
heart sad, and lived at Brundisium, mourning his lot.

From thence he wrote to Atticus, saying that he hardly saw the advantage of complying with
advice which had been given to him that he should travel incognito to Rome. But it is the special
reason given which strikes us as being so unlike the arguments which would prevail to-day:
"Nor have I resting-places on the way sufficiently convenient for me to pass the entire daytime
within them."[130] The "diversorium" was a place by the roadside which was always ready should
the owner desire to come that way. It must be understood that he travelled with attendants,
and carried his food with him, or sent it on before. We see at every turn how much money could
do; but we see also how little money had done for the general comfort of the people. Brundisium
is above three hundred miles from Rome, and the journey is the same which Horace took afterward,
going from the city.[131] Much had then been done to make travelling comfortable, or at any
rate cheaper than it had been four-and-twenty years before. But now the journey was not made.
He reminds Atticus in the letter that if he had not written through so long an interval it
was not because there had been a dearth of subjects. It had been no doubt prudent for a man
to be silent when so many eyes and so many ears were on the watch. He writes again some days
later, and assures Atticus that Cæsar thinks well of his "lictors!" Oh those eternal lictors!
"But what have I to do with lictors," he says, "who am almost ordered to leave the shores of
Italy?"[132] And then Cæsar had sent angry messages. Cato and Metellus had been said to have
come home. Cæsar did not choose that this should be so, and had ordered them away. It was clearly
manifest to every man alive now that Cæsar was the actual master of Italy.

During the whole of this winter he is on terms with Terentia, but he writes to her in the coldest
strain. There are many letters to Terentia, more in number than we have ever known before,
but they are all of the same order. I translate one here to show the nature of his correspondence:
"If you are well, I am so also. The times are such that I expect to hear nothing from yourself,
and on my part have nothing to write. Nevertheless, I look for your letters, and I write to
you when a messenger is going to start. Voluminia ought to have understood her duty to you,
and should have done what she did do better. There are other things, however, which I care
for more, and grieve for more bitterly--as those have wished who have driven me from my own
opinion."[133] Again he writes to Atticus, deploring that he should have been born--so great
are his troubles--or, at any rate, that one should have been born after him from the same mother.
His brother has addressed him in anger--his brother, who has desired to make his own affairs
straight with Cæsar, and to swim down the stream pleasantly with other noble Romans of the
time. I can imagine that with Quintus Cicero there was nothing much higher than the wealth
which the day produced. I can fancy that he was possessed of intellect, and that when it was
fair sailing with our Consul it was all well with Quintus Cicero; but I can see also that,
when Cæsar prevailed, it was occasionally a matter of doubt with Quintus whether his brother
should not be abandoned among other things which were obtrusive and vain. He could not quite
do it. His brother compelled him into propriety, and carried him along within the lines of
the oligarchy. Then Cæsar fell, and Quintus saw that the matter was right; but Cæsar, though
he fell, did not altogether fall, and therefore Quintus after all turned out to be in the wrong.
I fancy that I can see how things went ill with Quintus.

[Sidenote: B.C. 47, ætat. 60.]

Cæsar, after the battle of the Pharsalia, had followed Pompey, but had failed to catch him.
When he came upon the scene in the roadstead at Alexandria, the murder had been effected. He
then disembarked, and there, as circumstances turned out, was doomed to fight another campaign
in which he nearly lost his life. It is not a part of my plan to write the life of Cæsar, nor
to meddle with it further than I am driven to do in seeking after the sources of Cicero's troubles
and aspiration; but the story must be told in a few words. Cæsar went from Alexandria into
Asia, and, flashing across Syria, beat Pharnaces, and then wrote his famous "Veni, vidi, vici,"
if those words were ever written. Surely he could not have written them and sent them home!
Even the subservience of the age would not have endured words so boastful, nor would the glory
of Cæsar have so tarnished itself. He hurried back to Italy, and quelled the mutiny of his
men by a masterpiece of stage-acting. Simply by addressing them as "Quirites," instead of "Milites,"
he appalled them into obedience. On this journey into Italy he came across Cicero. If he could
be cruel without a pang--to the arranging the starvation of a townful of women, because they
as well as the men must eat--he could be magnificent in his treatment of a Cicero. He had hunted
to the death his late colleague in the Triumvirate, and had felt no remorse; though there seems
to have been a moment when in Egypt the countenance of him who had so long been his superior
had touched him. He had not ordered Pompey's death. On no occasion had he wilfully put to death
a Roman whose name was great enough to leave a mark behind. He had followed the convictions
of his countrymen, who had ever spared themselves. To him a thousand Gauls, or men of Eastern
origin, were as nothing to a single Roman nobleman. Whether there can be said to have been
clemency in such a course it is useless now to dispute. To Cæsar it was at any rate policy
as well. If by clemency he meant that state of mind in which it is an evil to sacrifice the
life of men to a spirit of revenge, Cæsar was clement. He had moreover that feeling which induces
him who wins to make common cause--in little things--with those who lose. We can see Cæsar
getting down from his chariot when Cicero came to meet him, and, throwing his arms round his
neck, walking off with him in pleasant conversation; and we can fancy him talking to Cicero
pleasantly of the greatness which, in times yet to come, pursuits such as his would show in
comparison with those of Cæsar's. "Cedant arma togæ; concedat laurea linguæ," we can hear Cæsar
say, with an irony expressed in no tone of his voice, but still vibrating to the core of his
heart, as he thought so much of his own undoubted military supremacy, and absolutely nothing
of his now undoubted literary excellence.

[Sidenote: B.C. 47, ætat. 60.]

But to go back a little; we shall find Cicero still waiting at Brundisium during August and
September. In the former of these months he reminds Atticus that "he cannot at present sell
anything, but that he can put by something so that it may be in safety when the ruin shall
fall upon him."[134] From this may be deduced a state of things very different to that above
described, but not contradicting it. I gather from this unintelligible letter, written, as
he tells us, for the most part in his own handwriting, that he was at the present moment under
some forfeiture of the law to Cæsar. It may well be that, as one adjudged to be a rebel to
his country, his property should not be salable. If that were so, Cæsar in some of these bland
moments must have revoked the sentence--and at such a time all sentences were within Cæsar's
control--because we know that on his return Cicero's villas were again within his own power.
But he is in sad trouble now about his wife. He has written to her to send him twelve thousand
sesterces, which he had as it were in a bag, and she sends him ten, saying that no more is
left. If she would deduct something from so small a sum, what would she do if it were larger?[135]
Then follow two letters for his wife--a mere word in each--not a sign of affection nor of complaint
in either of them. In the first he tells her she shall be informed when Cæsar is coming--in
the latter, that he is coming. When he has resolved whether to go and meet him or to remain
where he is till Cæsar shall have come upon him, he will again write. Then there are three
to Atticus, and two more to Terentia. In the first he tells him that Cæsar is expected. Some
ten or twelve days afterward he is still full of grief as to his brother Quintus, whose conduct
has been shameful. Cæsar he knows is near at hand, but he almost hopes that he will not come
to Brundisium. In the third, as indeed he has in various others, he complains bitterly of the
heat: it is of such a nature that it adds to his grief. Shall he send word to Cæsar that he
will wait upon him nearer to Rome?[136] He is evidently in a sad condition. Quintus, it must
be remembered, had been in Gaul with Cæsar, and had seen the rising sun. On his return to Italy
he had not force enough to declare a political conviction, and to go over to Cæsar boldly.
He had indeed become lieutenant to his brother when in Cilicia, having left Cæsar for the purpose.
He afterward went with his brother to the Pharsalus, assuring the elder Cicero that they two
would still be of the same party. Then the great catastrophe had come, when Cicero returned
from that wretched campaign to Brundisium, and remained there in despair as at some penal settlement.
Quintus followed Cæsar into Asia with his son, and there pleaded his own cause with him at
the expense of his brother. Of Cæsar we must all admit that, though indifferent to the shedding
of blood, arrogant, without principle in money and without heart in love, he was magnificent,
and that he injured none from vindictive motives. He passed on, leaving Quintus Cicero, who
as a soldier had been true to him, without, as we can fancy, many words. Cicero afterward interceded
for his brother who had reviled him, and Quintus will ever after have to bear the stain of
his treachery. Then came the two letters for his wife, with just a line in each. If her messenger
should arrive, he will send her word back as to what she is to do. After an interval of nearly
a month, there is the other--ordering, in perfectly restored good-humor, that the baths shall
be ready at the Tusculan villa: "Let the baths be all ready, and everything fit for the use
of guests; there will probably be many of them."[137] It is evident that Cæsar has passed on
in a good-humor, and has left behind him glad tidings, such as should ever brighten the feet
of the conqueror.

It is singular that, with a correspondence such as that of Cicero's, of which, at least through
the latter two or three years of his life, every letter of his to his chief friend has been
preserved, there should have been nothing left to us from that friend himself. It must have
been the case, as Middleton suggests, that Atticus, when Cicero was dead, had the handling
of the entire MS., and had withdrawn his own; either that, or else Cicero and Atticus mutually
agreed to the destruction of their joint labors, and Atticus had been untrue to his agreement,
knowing well the value of the documents he preserved. That there is no letter from a woman--not
even a line to Cicero from his dear daughter--is much to be regretted. And yet there are letters--many
from Cælius, who is thus brought forward as almost a second and a younger Atticus--and from
various Romans of the day. When we come to the latter days of his life, in which he had taken
upon himself the task of writing to Plancus and others as to their supposed duty to the State,
they become numerous. There are ten such from Plancus, and nine from Decimus Brutus; and there
is a whole mass of correspondence with Marcus Brutus--to be taken for what it is worth. With
a view to history, they are doubtless worth much; but as throwing light on Cicero's character,
except as to the vigor that was in the man to the last, they are not of great value. How is
it that a correspondence, which is for its main purpose so full, should have fallen so short
in many of its details? There is no word, no allusion derogatory to Atticus in these letters,
which have come to us from Cælius and others. We have Atticus left to us for our judgment,
free from the confession of his own faults, and free also from the insinuations of others.
Of whom would we wish that the familiar letters of another about ourselves should be published?
Would those objectionable epithets as to Pompey have been allowed to hold their ground had
Pompey lived and had they been in his possession?

But, in reading histories and biographies, we always accept with a bias in favor of the person
described the anecdotes of those who talk of them. We know that the ready wit of the surrounding
world has taken up these affairs of the moment and turned them into ridicule--then as they
do now. We discount the "Hierosolymarius." We do not quite believe that Bibulus never left
the house while an enemy was to be seen; but we think that a man may be expected to tell the
truth of himself; at any rate, to tell no untruth against himself. We think that Cicero of
all men may be left to do so--Cicero, who so well understood the use of words, and could use
them in his own defence so deftly. I maintain that it has been that very deftness which has
done him all the harm. Not one of those letters of the last years would have been written as
it is now had Cicero thought, when writing it, that from it would his conduct have been judged
after two thousand years. "No," will say my readers, "that is their value; they would not have
otherwise been true, as they are. We should not then have learned his secrets." I reply, "It
is a hard bargain to make: others do not make such bargains on the same terms. But be sure,
at any rate, that you read them aright: be certain that you make the necessary allowances.
Do not accuse him of falsehood because he unsays on a Tuesday the words he said on the Monday.
Bear in mind on his behalf all the temporary ill that humanity is heir to. Could you, living
at Brundisium during the summer months, 'when you were scarcely able to endure the weight of
the sun,'[138] have had all your intellects about you, and have been able always to choose
your words?" No, indeed! These letters, if truth is to be expected from them, have to be read
with all the subtle distinctions necessary for understanding the frame of mind in which they
were written. His anger boils over here, and he is hot. Here tenderness has mastered him, and
the love of old days. He is weak in body just now, and worn out in spirit; he is hopeless,
almost to the brink of despair; he is bright with wit, he is full of irony, he is purposely
enigmatic--all of which require an Atticus who knew him and the people among whom he had lived,
and the times in which the events took place, for their special reading. Who is there can read
them now so as accurately to decipher every intended detail? Then comes some critic who will
not even attempt to read them--who rushes through them by the light of some foregone conclusion,
and missing the point at which the writer subtly aims, tells us of some purpose of which he
was altogether innocent! Because he jokes about the augurship, we are told how miserably base
he was, and how ready to sell his country!

During the whole of the last year he must have been tortured by various turns of mind. Had
he done well in joining himself to Pompey? and having done so, had he done well in severing
himself, immediately on Pompey's death, from the Pompeians? Looking at the matter as from a
stand-point quite removed from it, we are inclined to say that he had done well in both. He
could not without treachery have gone over to Cæsar when Cæsar had come to the gate of Italy,
and, as it were with a blast of his trumpet, had demanded the Consulship, a triumph, the use
of his legions, and the continuance of his military power. "Let Pompey put down his, and I
will put down mine," he had said. Had Pompey put down his, Pompey and Cicero, Cato and Brutus,
and Bibulus would all have had to walk at the heels of Cæsar. When Pompey declared that he
would contest the point, he declared for them all. Cicero was bound to go to Pharsalia. But
when, by Pompey's incompetence, Cæsar was the victor; when Pompey had fallen at the Nile, and
all the lovers of the fish-ponds, and the intractable oligarchs, and the cutthroats of the
Empire, such as young Pompey had become, had scattered themselves far and wide, some to Asia,
some to Illyricum, some to Spain, and more to Africa--as a herd of deer shall be seen to do
when a vast hound has appeared among them, with his jaws already dripping with blood--was Cicero
then to take his part with any of them? I hold that he did what dignity required, and courage
also. He went back to Italy, and there he waited till the conqueror should come.

It must have been very bitter. Never to have become great has nothing in it of bitterness for
a noble spirit. What matters it to the unknown man whether a Cæsar or a Pompey is at the top
of all things? Or if it does matter--as indeed that question of his governance does matter
to every man who has a soul within him to be turned this way or that--which way he is turned,
though there may be inner regrets that Cæsar should become the tyrant, perhaps keener regrets,
if the truth were all seen, that Pompey's hands should be untrammelled, who sees them? I can
walk down to my club with my brow unclouded, or, unless I be stirred to foolish wrath by the
pride of some one equally vain, can enjoy myself amid the festivities of the hour. It is but
a little affair to me. If it come in my way to do a thing, I will do my best, and there is
an end of it. The sense of responsibility is not there, nor the grievous weight of having tried
but failed to govern mankind. But to have clung to high places; to have sat in the highest
seat of all with infinite honor; to have been called by others, and, worse still, to have called
myself, the savior of my country; to have believed in myself that I was sufficient, that I
alone could do it, that I could bring back, by my own justice and integrity, my erring countrymen
to their former simplicity--and then to have found myself fixed in a little town, just in Italy,
waiting for the great conqueror, who though my friend in things social was opposed to me body
and soul as to rules of life--that, I say, must have been beyond the bitterness of death.

During this year he had made himself acquainted with the details of that affair, whatever it
might be, which led to his divorce soon after his return to Rome. He had lived about thirty
years with his wife, and the matter could not but have been to him the cause of great unhappiness.
Terentia was not only the mother of his children, but she had been to him also the witness
of his rise in life and the companion of his fall. He was one who would naturally learn to
love those with whom he was conversant. He seems to have projected himself out of his own time
into those modes of thought which have come to us with Christianity, and such a separation
from this woman after an intercourse of so many years must have been very grievous to him.
All married Romans underwent divorce quite as a matter of course. There were many reasons.
A young wife is more agreeable to the man's taste than one who is old. A rich wife is more
serviceable than a poor. A new wife is a novelty. A strange wife is an excitement. A little
wife is a relief to one overburdened with the flesh; a buxom wife to him who has become tired
of the pure spirit. Xanthippe asks too much, while Griselda is too tranquil. And then, as a
man came up in the world, causes for divorce grew without even the trouble of having to search
for faults. Cæsar required that his wife should not be ill spoken of, and therefore divorced
her. Pompey cemented the Triumvirate with a divorce. We cannot but imagine that, when men had
so much the best of it in the affairs of life, a woman had always the worst of it in these
enforced separations. But as the wind is tempered to the shorn lamb, so were divorces made
acceptable to Roman ladies. No woman was disgraced by a divorce, and they who gave over their
husbands at the caprice of a moment to other embraces would usually find consolation. Terentia
when divorced from Cicero was at least fifty, and we are told she had the extreme honor of
having married Sallust after her break with Cicero. They say that she married twice again after
Sallust's death, and that having lived nearly through the reign of Augustus, she died at length
at the age of a hundred and three. Divorce at any rate did not kill her. But we cannot conceive
but that so sudden a disruption of all the ties of life must have been grievous to Cicero.
We shall find him in the next chapter marrying a young ward, and then, too, divorcing her;
but here we have only to deal with the torments Terentia inflicted on him. What those torments
were we do not know, and shall never learn unless by chance the lost letters of Atticus should
come to light. But the general idea has been that the lady had, in league with a freedman and
steward in her service, been guilty of fraud against her husband. I do not know that we have
much cause to lament the means of ascertaining the truth. It is sad to find that the great
men with whose name we are occupied have been made subject to those "whips and scorns of time"
which we thought to be peculiar to ourselves, because they have stung us. Terentia, Cicero's
wife two thousand years ago, sent him word that he had but £100 left in his box at home, when
he himself knew well that there must be something more. That would have gone for nothing had
there not been other things before that, many other things. So, in spite of his ordering at
her hands the baths and various matters to be got ready for his friends at his Tusculum, a
very short time after his return there he had divorced her.

During this last year he had been engaged on what has since been found to be the real work
of his life. He had already written much, but had written as one who had been anxious to fill
up vacant spaces of time as they came in his way. From this time forth he wrote as does one
who has reconciled himself to the fact that there are no more days to be lost if he intends,
before the sun be set, to accomplish an appointed task. He had already compiled the De Oratore,
the De Republica, and the De Legibus. Out of the many treatises which we have from Cicero's
hands, these are they which are known as the works of his earlier years. He commenced the year
with an inquiry, De Optimo Genere Oratorum, which he intended as a preface to the translations
which he made of the great speeches of Æschines and Demosthenes, De Corona. These translations
are lost, though the preface remains. He then translated, or rather paraphrased the Timæus
of Plato, of which a large proportion has come down to us, and the Protagoras, of which we
have lost all but a sentence or two. We have his Oratoriæ Partitiones, in which, in a dialogue
between himself and his son, he repeats the lessons on oratory which he has given to the young
man. It is a recapitulation, in short, of all that had been said on a subject which has since
been made common, and which owed its origin to the work of much earlier years. It is but dull
reading, but I can imagine that even in these days it may be useful to a young lawyer. There
is a cynical morsel among these precepts which is worth observing, "Cito enim arescit lachryma
præsertim in alienis malis;"[139] and another grandly simple, "Nihil enim est aliud eloquentia
nisi copiose loquens sapientia." Can we fancy anything more biting than the idea that the tears
caused by the ills of another soon grow dry on the orator's cheek, or more wise than that which
tells us that eloquence is no more than wisdom speaking eloquently? Then he wrote the six Paradoxes
addressed to Brutus--or rather he then gave them to the world, for they were surely written
at an earlier date. They are short treatises on trite subjects, put into beautiful language,
so as to arrest the attention of all readers by the unreasonableness of their reasoning. The
most remarkable is the third, in which he endeavored to show that a man cannot be wise unless
he be all-wise, a doctrine which he altogether overturns in his De Amicitia, written but four
years afterward. Cicero knew well what was true, and wrote his paradox in order to give a zest
to the subject. In the fourth and the sixth are attacks upon Clodius and Crassus, and are here
republished in what would have been the very worst taste amid the politeness of our modern
times. A man now may hate and say so while his foe is still alive and strong; but with the
Romans he might continue to hate, and might republish the words which he had written, eight
years after the death of his victim.

I know nothing of Cicero's which so much puts us in mind of the struggles of the modern authors
to make the most of every word that has come from them, as do these paradoxes. They remind
us of some writer of leading articles who gets together a small bundle of essays and then gives
them to the world. Each of them has done well at its time, but that has not sufficed for his
ambition; therefore they are dragged out into the light and put forward with a separate claim
for attention, as though they could stand well on their own legs. But they cannot stand alone,
and they fall from having been put into a position other than that for which they were intended
when written.

CHAPTER VII.

MARCELLUS, LIGARIUS, AND DEIOTARUS.

[Sidenote: B.C. 46, ætat. 61.]

The battle of Thapsus, in Africa, took place in the spring of this year, and Cato destroyed
himself with true stoical tranquillity, determined not to live under Cæsar's rule. If we may
believe the story which, probably, Hirtius has given us, in his account of the civil war in
Africa, and which has come down to us together with Cæsar's Commentaries, Cato left his last
instructions to some of his officers, and then took his sword into his bed with him and stabbed
himself. Cicero, who, in his dream of Scipio, has given his readers such excellent advice in
regard to suicide, has understood that Cato must be allowed the praise of acting up to his
own principles. He would die rather than behold the face of the tyrant who had enslaved him.[140]
To Cato it was nothing that he should leave to others the burden of living under Cæsar; but
to himself the idea of a superior caused an unendurable affront. The "Catonis nobile letum"
has reconciled itself to the poets of all ages. Men, indeed, have refused to see that he fled
from a danger which he felt to be too much for him, and that in doing so he had lacked something
of the courage of a man. Many other Romans of the time did the same thing, but to none has
been given all the honor which has been allowed to Cato.

Cicero felt as others have done, and allowed all his little jealousies to die away. It was
but a short time before that Cato had voted against the decree of the Senate giving Cicero
his "supplication." Cicero had then been much annoyed; but now Cato had died fighting for the
Republic, and was to be forgiven all personal offences. Cicero wrote a eulogy of Cato which
was known by the name of Cato, and was much discussed at Rome at the time. It has now been
lost. He sent it to Cæsar, having been bold enough to say in it whatever occurred to him should
be said in Cato's praise. We may imagine that, had it not pleased him to be generous--had he
not been governed by that feeling of "De mortuis nil nisi bonum," which is now common to us
all--he might have said much that was not good. Cato had endeavored to live up to the austerest
rules of the Stoics--a mode of living altogether antagonistic to Cicero's views. But we know
that he praised Cato to the full--and we know also that Cæsar nobly took the praise in good
part, as coming from Cicero, and answered it in an Anti-Cato, in which he stated his reasons
for differing from Cicero. We can understand how Cæsar should have shown that the rigid Stoic
was not a man likely to be of service to his country.

There came up at this period a question which made itself popular among the "optimates" of
Rome, as to the return of Marcellus. The man of Como, whom Marcellus had flogged, will be remembered--the
Roman citizen who had first been made a citizen by Cæsar. This is mentioned now not as the
cause of Cæsar's enmity, who did not care much probably for his citizen, but as showing the
spirit of the man. He, Marcellus, had been Consul four years since, B.C. 51, and had then endeavored
to procure Cæsar's recall from his province. He was one of the "optimates," an oligarch altogether
opposed to Cæsar, a Roman nobleman of fairly good repute, who had never bent to Cæsar, but
had believed thoroughly in his order, and had thought, till the day of Pharsalia came, that
the Consuls and the Senate would rule forever. The day of Pharsalia did come, and Marcellus
went into voluntary banishment in Mitylene. After Pharsalia, Cæsar's clemency began to make
itself known. There was a pardon for almost every Roman who had fought against him, and would
accept it. No spark of anger burnt in Cæsar's bosom, except against one or two, of whom Marcellus
was one. He was too wise to be angry with men whose services he might require. It was Cæsar's
wish not to drive out the good men but to induce them to remain in Rome, living by the grace
of his favor. Marcellus had many friends, and it seems that a public effort was made to obtain
for him permission to come back to Rome. We must imagine that Cæsar had hitherto refused, probably
with the idea of making his final concession the more valuable. At last the united Senators
determined to implore his grace, and the Consulares rose one after another in their places,
and all, with one exception,[141] asked that Marcellus might be allowed to return. Cicero,
however, had remained silent to the last. There must have been, I think, some plot to get Cicero
on to his legs. He had gone to meet Cæsar at Brundisium when he came back from the East, had
returned to Rome under his auspices, and had lived in pleasant friendship with Cæsar's friends.
Pardon seems to have been accorded to Cicero without an effort. As far as he was concerned,
that hostile journey to Dyrrachium--for he did not travel farther toward the camp--counted
for nothing with Cæsar. He was allowed to live in peace, at Rome or at his villas, as he might
please, so long as Cæsar might rule. The idea seems to have been that he should gradually become
absorbed among Cæsar's followers. But hitherto he had remained silent. It was now six years
since his voice had been heard in Rome. He had spoken for Milo--or had intended to speak--and,
in the same affair, for Munatius Plancus, and for Saufeius, B.C. 52. He had then been in his
fifty-fifth year, and it might well be that six years of silence at such a period of his life
would not be broken. It was manifestly his intention not to speak again, at any rate in the
Senate; though the threats made by him as to his total retirement should not be taken as meaning
much. Such threats from statesmen depend generally on the wishes of other men. But he held
his place in the Senate, and occasionally attended the debates. When this affair of Marcellus
came on, and all the Senators of consular rank--excepting only Volcatius and Cicero--had risen,
and had implored Cæsar in a few words to condescend to be generous; when Claudius Marcellus
had knelt at Cæsar's feet to ask for his brother's liberty, and Cæsar himself, after reminding
them of the bitterness of the man, had still declared that he could not refuse the prayers
of the Senate, then Cicero, as though driven by the magnanimity of the conqueror, rose from
his place, and poured forth his thanks in the speech which is still extant.

That used to be the story till there came the German critic Wolf, who at the beginning of this
century told us that Cicero did not utter the words attributed to him, and could not have uttered
them. According to Wolf, it would be doing Cicero an egregious wrong to suppose him capable
of having used such words, which are not Latin, and which were probably written by some ignoramus
in the time of Tiberius. Such a verdict might have been taken as fatal--for Wolf's scholarship
and powers of criticism are acknowledged--in spite of La Harpe, the French scholar and critic,
who has named the Marcellus as a thing of excellence, comparing it with the eulogistic speeches
of Isocrates. The praise of La Harpe was previous to the condemnation of Wolf, and we might
have been willing to accede to the German as being the later and probably the more accurate.
Mr. Long, the British editor of the Orations--Mr. Long, who has so loudly condemned the four
speeches supposed to have been made after Cicero's return from exile--gives us no certain guidance.
Mr. Long, at any rate, has not been so disgusted by the Tiberian Latin as to feel himself bound
to repudiate it. If he can read the Pro Marcello, so can I, and so, my reader, might you do
probably without detriment. But these differences among the great philologic critics tend to
make us, who are so infinitely less learned, better contented with our own lot. I, who had
read the Pro Marcello without stumbling over its halting Latinity, should have felt myself
crushed when I afterward came across Wolf's denunciations, had I not been somewhat comforted
by La Harpe. But when I found that Mr. Long, in his introduction to the piece, though he discusses
Wolf's doctrine, still gives to the orator the advantage, as it may be, of his "imprimatur,"
I felt that I might go on, and not be ashamed of myself.[142]

This is the story that has now to be told of the speech Pro Marcello. At the time the matter
ended very tragically. As soon as Cæsar had yielded, Cicero wrote to Marcellus giving him strong
reasons for coming home. Marcellus answered him, saying that it was impossible. He thanks Cicero
shortly; but, with kindly dignity, he declines. "With the comforts of the city I can well dispense,"
he says.[143] Then Cicero urges him again and again, using excellent arguments for his return--which
at length prevail. In the spring of the next year Marcellus, on his way back to Rome, is at
Athens. There Servius Sulpicius spends a day with him; but, just as Sulpicius is about to pass
on, there comes a slave to him who tells him that Marcellus has been murdered. His friend Magius
Chilo had stabbed him overnight, and had then destroyed himself. It was said that Chilo had
asked Marcellus to pay his debts for him, and that Marcellus had refused. It seems to be more
probable that Chilo had his own reasons for not choosing that his friend should return to Rome.

Looking back at my own notes on the speech--it would make with us but a ten minutes' after-dinner
speech--I see that it is said "that it is chiefly remarkable for the beauty of the language,
and the abjectness of the praise of Cæsar." This was before I had heard of Wolf. As to the
praise, I doubt whether it should be called abject, regard being had to the feelings of the
moment in which it was delivered. Cicero had risen to thank Cæsar--on whose breath the recall
of Marcellus depended--for his unexpected courtesy. In England we should not have thanked Cæsar
as Cicero did: "O Cæsar, there is no flood of eloquence, no power of the tongue or of the pen,
no richness of words, which may emblazon, or even dimly tell the story of your great deeds."[144]
Such language is unusual with us--as it would also be unusual to abuse our Pisos and our Vatiniuses,
as did Cicero. It was the Southerner and the Roman who spoke to Southerners and to Romans.
But, undoubtedly, there was present to the mind of Cicero the idea of saying words which Cæsar
might receive with pleasure. He was dictator, emperor, lord of all things--king. Cicero should
have remained away, as Marcellus had done, were he not prepared to speak after this fashion.
He had long held aloof from speech. At length the time had come when he was, as it were, caught
in a trap, and compelled to be eloquent.

[Sidenote: B.C. 46, ætat. 61.]

The silence had been broken, and in the course of the autumn he spoke on behalf of Ligarius,
beseeching the conqueror to be again merciful. This case was by no means similar to that of
Marcellus, who was exiled by no direct forfeiture of his right to live in Italy, but who had
expatriated himself. In this case Ligarius had been banished with others; but it seems that
the punishment had been inflicted on him, not from the special ill-will of Cæsar, but from
the malice of certain enemies who, together with Ligarius, had found themselves among Pompey's
followers when Cæsar crossed the Rubicon. Ligarius had at this time been left as acting governor
in Africa. In the confusion of the times an unfortunate Pompeian named Varus had arrived in
Africa, and to him, as being superior in rank, Ligarius had given up the government. Varus
had then gone, leaving Ligarius still acting, and one Tubero had come with his son, and had
demanded the office. Ligarius had refused to give it up, and the two Tuberos had departed,
leaving the province in anger, and had fought at the Pharsalus. After the battle they made
their peace with Cæsar, and in the scramble that ensued Ligarius was banished. Now the case
was brought into the courts, in which Cæsar sat as judge. The younger Tubero accused Ligarius,
and Cicero defended him. It seems that, having been enticed to open his mouth on behalf of
Marcellus, he found himself launched again into public life. But how great was the difference
from his old life! It is not to the Judices, or Patres Conscripti, or to the Quirites that
he now addresses himself, determined by the strength of his eloquence to overcome the opposition
of stubborn minds, but to Cæsar, whom he has to vanquish simply by praise. Once again he does
the same thing when pleading for Deiotarus, the King of Galatia, and it is impossible to deny,
as we read the phrases, that the orator sinks in our esteem. It is not so much that we judge
him to be small, as that he has ceased to be great. He begins his speech for Ligarius by saying,
"My kinsman Tubero has brought before you, O Cæsar, a new crime, and one not heard of up to
this day--that Ligarius has been in Africa."[145] The commencement would have been happy enough
if it had not been addressed to Cæsar; for he was addressing a judge not appointed by any form,
but self-assumed--a judge by military conquest. We cannot imagine how Cæsar found time to sit
there, with his legions round him still under arms, and Spain not wholly conquered. But he
did do so, and allowed himself to be persuaded to the side of mercy. Ligarius came back to
Rome, and was one of those who plunged their daggers into him. But I cannot think that he should
have been hindered by this trial and by Cæsar's mercy from taking such a step, if by nothing
else. Brutus and Cassius also stabbed him. The question to be decided is whether, on public
grounds, these men were justified in killing him--a question as to which I should be premature
in expressing an opinion here.

There are some beautiful passages in this oration. "Who is there, I ask," he says, "who alleges
Ligarius to have been in fault because he was in Africa? He does so who himself was most anxious
to be there, and now complains that he was refused admittance by Ligarius, he who was in arms
against Cæsar. What was your sword doing, Tubero, in that Pharsalian army? Whom did you seek
to kill then? What was the meaning of your weapon? What was it that you desired so eagerly,
with those eyes and hands, with that passion in your heart? I press him too much; the young
man seems to be disturbed. I will speak of myself, then, for I also was in that army."[146]
This was in Cæsar's presence, and no doubt told with Cæsar. We were all together in the same
cause--you, and I, and Ligarius. Why should you and I be pardoned and not Ligarius? The oration
is for the most part simply eulogistic. At any rate it was successful, and became at Rome,
for the time, extremely popular. He writes about it early in the following year to Atticus,
who has urged him to put something into it, before it was published, to mitigate the feeling
against Tubero. Cicero says in his reply to Atticus that the copies have already been given
to the public, and that, indeed, he is not anxious on Tubero's behalf.

Early in this year he had divorced Terentia, and seems at once to have married Publilia. Publilia
had been his ward, and is supposed to have had a fortune of her own. He explains his own motives
very clearly in a letter to his friend Plancius. In these wretched times he would have formed
no new engagement, unless his own affairs had been as sad for him as were those of the Republic;
but when he found that they to whom his prosperity should have been of the greatest concern
were plotting against him within his own walls, he was forced to strengthen himself against
the perfidy of his old inmates by placing his trust in new.[147] It must have been very bad
with him when he had recourse to such a step as this. Shortly after this letter just quoted
had been written, he divorced Publilia also--we are told because Publilia had treated Tullia
with disrespect. We have no details on the subject, but we can well understand the pride of
the young woman who declined to hear the constant praise of her step-daughter, and thought
herself to be quite as good as Tullia. At any rate, she was sent away quickly from her new
home, having remained there only long enough to have made not the most creditable episode in
Cicero's life.

At this time Dolabella, who assumed the Consulship upon Cæsar's death, and Hirtius, who became
Consul during the next year, used to attend upon Cicero and take lessons in elocution. So at
least the story has been told, from a letter written in this year to his friend Poetus; but
I should imagine that the lessons were not much in earnest. "Why do you talk to me of your
tunny-fish, your pilot-fish, and your cheese and sardines? Hirtius and Dolabella preside over
my banquets, and I teach them in return to make speeches."[148] From this we may learn that
Cæsar's friends were most anxious to be also Cicero's friends. It may be said that Dolabella
was his son-in-law; but Dolabella was at this moment on the eve of being divorced. It was in
spite of his marriage that Dolabella still clung to Cicero. All Cæsar's friends in Rome did
the same; so that I am disposed to think that for this year, just till Tullia's death, he was
falling, not into a happy state, but to the passive contentment of those who submit themselves
to be ruled over by a single master. He had struggled all his life, and now finding that he
must yield, he thought that he might as well do so gracefully. It was so much easier to listen
to the State secrets of Balbus, and hear from Oppius how the money was spent, and then to dine
with Hirtius or Dolabella, than to sit ever scowling at home, as Cato would have done had Cato
lived. But with his feelings about the Republic at heart, how sad it must have been! Cato was
gone, and Pompey, and Bibulus; and Marcellus was either gone or just about to go. Old age was
creeping on. It was better to write philosophy, in friendship with Cæsar's friends, than to
be banished again whither he could not write it at all. Much, no doubt, he did in preparation
for all those treatises which the next eighteen months were to bring forth.

Cæsar, just at the end of the year, had been again called to Spain, B.C. 46, to quell the last
throbbings of the Pompeians, and then to fight the final battle of Munda. It would seem odd
to us that so little should have been said about such an event by Cicero, and that the little
should depend on the education of his son, were it not that if we look at our own private letters,
written to-day to our friends, we find the same omission of great things. To Cicero the doings
of his son were of more immediate moment than the doings of Cæsar. The boy had been anxious
to enlist for the Spanish war. Quintus, his cousin, had gone, and young Marcus was anxious
to flutter his feathers beneath the eyes of royalty. At his age it was nothing to him that
he had been taken to Pharsalia and made to bear arms on the opposite side. Cæsar had become
Cæsar since he had learned to form his opinion on politics, and on Cæsar's side all things
seemed to be bright and prosperous. The lad was anxious to get away from his new step-mother,
and asked his father for the means to go with the army to Spain. It appears by Cicero's letter
to Atticus on the subject[149] that, in discussing the matter with his son, he did yield. These
Roman fathers, in whose hands we are told were the very lives of their sons, seem to have been
much like Christian fathers of modern days in their indulgences. The lad was now nineteen years
old, and does not appear to have been willing, at the first parental attempt, to give up his
military appanages and that swagger of the young officer which is so dear to the would-be military
mind. Cicero tells him that if he joined the army he would find his cousin treated with greater
favor than himself. Young Quintus was older, and had been already able to do something to push
himself with Cæsar's friends. "Sed tamen permisi"--"Nevertheless, I told him he might go,"
said Cicero, sadly. But he did not go. He was allured, probably, by the promise of a separate
establishment at Athens, whither he was sent to study with Cratippus. We find another proof
of Cicero's wealth in the costliness of his son's household at Athens, as premeditated by the
father. He is to live as do the sons of other great noblemen. He even names the young noblemen
with whom he is to live. Bibulus was of the Calpurnian "gens." Acidinus of the Manlian, and
Messala of the Valerian, and these are the men whom Cicero, the "novus homo" from Arpinum,
selects as those who shall not live at a greater cost than his son.[150] "He will not, however,
at Athens want a horse." Why not? Why should not a young man so furnished want a horse at Athens?
"There are plenty here at home for the road," says Cicero. So young Cicero is furnished, and
sent forth to learn philosophy and Greek. But no one has essayed to tell us why he should not
want the horse. Young Cicero when at Athens did not do well. He writes home in the coming year,
to Tiro, two letters which have been preserved for us, and which seem to give us but a bad
account, at any rate, of his sincerity. "The errors of his youth," he says, "have afflicted
him grievously." Not only is his mind shocked, but his ears cannot bear to hear of his own
iniquity.[151] "And now," he says, "I will give you a double joy, to compensate all the anxiety
I have occasioned you. Know that I live with Cratippus, my master, more like a son than a pupil.
I spend all my days with him, and very often part of the night." But he seems to have had some
wit. Tiro has been made a freedman, and has bought a farm for himself. Young Marcus--from whom
Tiro has asked for some assistance which Marcus cannot give him--jokes with him as to his country
life, telling him that he sees him saving the apple-pips at dessert. Of the subsequent facts
of the life of young Marcus we do not know much. He did not suffer in the proscriptions of
Antony and Augustus, as did his father and uncle and his cousin. He did live to be chosen as
Consul with Augustus, and had the reputation of a great drinker. For this latter assertion
we have only the authority of Pliny the elder, who tells us an absurd story, among the wonders
of drinking which he adduces.[152] Middleton says a word or two on behalf of the young Cicero,
which are as well worthy of credit as anything else that has been told. One last glance at
him which we can credit is given in that letter to Tiro, and that we admit seems to us to be
hypocritical.

[Sidenote: B.C. 45, ætat. 62.]

In the spring of the year Cicero lost his daughter Tullia. We have first a letter of his to
Lepta, a man with whom he had become intimate, saying that he had been kept in Rome by Tullia's
confinement, and that now he is still detained, though her health is sufficiently confirmed,
by the expectation of obtaining from Dolabella's agents the first repayment of her dowry. The
repayment of the divorced lady's marriage portion was a thing of every-day occurrence in Rome,
when she was allowed to take away as much as she had brought with her. Cicero, however, failed
to get back Tullia's dowry. But he writes in good spirits. He does not think that he cares
to travel any more. He has a house at Rome better than any of his villas in the country, and
greater rest than in the most desert region. His studies are now never interrupted. He thinks
it probable that Lepta will have to come to him before he can be induced to go to Lepta. In
the mean time let the young Lepta take care and read his Hesiod.[153]

Then he writes in the spring to Atticus a letter from Antium, and we first hear that Tullia
is dead. She had seemed to recover from childbirth; but her strength did not suffice, and she
was no more.[154] A boy had been born, and was left alive. In subsequent letters we find that
Cicero gives instructions concerning him, and speaks of providing for him in his will.[155]
But of the child we hear nothing more, and must surmise that he also died. Of Tullia's death
we have no further particulars; but we may well imagine that the troubles of the world had
been very heavy on her. The little stranger was being born at the moment of her divorce from
her third husband. She was about thirty-two years of age, and it seems that Cicero had taken
consolation in her misfortunes from the expected pleasure of her companionship. She was now
dead, and he was left alone.

She had died in February, and we know nothing of the first outbreak of his sorrow. It appears
that he at first buried himself for a while in a villa belonging to Atticus, near Rome, and
that he then retreated to his own at Astura. From thence, and afterward from Antium, there
are a large number of letters, all dealing with the same subject. He declares himself to be
inconsolable; but he does take consolation from two matters--from his books on philosophy,
and from an idea which occurs to him that he will perpetuate the name of Tullia forever by
the erection of a monument that shall be as nearly immortal as stones and bricks can make it.

His letters to Atticus at this time are tedious to the general reader, because he reiterates
so often his instructions as to the purchase of the garden near Rome in which the monument
is to be built; but they are at the same time touching and natural. "Nothing has been written,"
he says, "for the lessening of grief which I have not read at your house; but my sorrow breaks
through it all."[156] Then he tells Atticus that he too has endeavored to console himself by
writing a treatise on Consolation. "Whole days I write; not that it does any good." In that
he was wrong. He could find no cure for his grief; but he did know that continued occupation
would relieve him, and therefore he occupied himself continually. "Totos dies scribo." By doing
so, he did contrive not to break his heart. In a subsequent letter he says, "Reading and writing
do not soften it, but they deaden it."[157]

On the Appian Way, a short distance out of Rome, the traveller is shown a picturesque ancient
building, of enormous strength, called the Mole of Cæcilia Metella. It is a castle in size,
but is believed to have been the tomb erected to the memory of Cæcilia, the daughter of Metellus
Creticus, and the wife of Crassus the rich. History knows of her nothing more, and authentic
history hardly knows so much of the stupendous monument. There it stands, however, and is supposed
to be proof of what might be done for a Roman lady in the way of perpetuating her memory. She
was, at any rate, older than Tullia, having been the wife of a man older than Tullia's father.
If it be the case that this monument be of the date named, it proves to us, at least, that
the notion of erecting such monuments was then prevalent. Some idea of a similar kind--of a
monument equally stupendous, and that should last as long--seems to have taken a firm hold
of Cicero's mind. He has read all the authors he could find on the subject, and they agree
that it shall be done in the fashion he points out. He does not, he says, consult Atticus on
that matter, nor on the architecture, for he has already settled on the design of one Cluatius.
What he wants Atticus to do for him now is to assist him in buying the spot on which it shall
be built. Many gardens near Rome are named. If Drusus makes a difficulty, Atticus must see
Damasippus. Then there are those which belong to Sica and to Silius! But at last the matter
dies away, and even the gardens are not bought. We are led to imagine that Atticus has been
opposed to the monument from first to last, and that the immense cost of constructing such
a temple as Cicero had contemplated is proved to him to be injudicious. There is a charming
letter written to him at this time by his friend Sulpicius, showing the great feeling entertained
for him. But, as I have said before, I doubt whether that or any other phrases of consolation
were of service to him. It was necessary for him to wait and bear it, and the more work that
he did when he was bearing it, the easier it was borne. Lucceius and Torquatus wrote to him
on the same subject, and we have his answers.

[Sidenote: B.C. 45, ætat. 62.]

In September Cæsar returned from Spain, having at last conquered the Republic. All hope for
liberty was now gone. Atticus had instigated Cicero to write something to Cæsar as to his victories--something
that should be complimentary, and at the same time friendly and familiar; but Cicero had replied
that it was impossible. "When I feel," he said, "that to draw the breath of life is in itself
base, how base would be my assent to what has been done![158] But it is not only that. There
are not words in which such a letter ever can be written. Do you not know that Aristotle, when
he addressed himself to Alexander, wrote to a youth who had been modest; but then, when he
had once heard himself called king, he became proud, cruel, and unrestrained? How, then, shall
I now write in terms which shall suffice for his pride to the man who has been equalled to
Romulus?" It was true; Cæsar had now returned inflated with such pride that Brutus, and Cassius,
and Casca could no longer endure him. He came back, and triumphed over the five lands in which
he had conquered not the enemies of Rome, but Rome itself. He triumphed nominally over the
Gauls, the Egyptians, the Asiatics of Pontus, over the Africans, and the Spaniards; but his
triumph was, in truth, over the Republic. There appears from Suetonius to have been five separate
triumphal processions, each at the interval of a few days.[159] Amid the glory of the first
Vercingetorix was strangled. To the glory of the third was added--as Suetonius tells us--these
words, "Veni, vidi, vici," displayed on a banner. This I think more likely than that he had
written them on an official despatch. We are told that the people of Rome refused to show any
pleasure, and that even his own soldiers had enough in them of the Roman spirit to feel resentment
at his assumption of the attributes of a king. Cicero makes but little mention of these gala
doings in his letters. He did not see them, but wrote back word to Atticus, who had described
it all. "An absurd pomp," he says, alluding to the carriage of the image of Cæsar together
with that of the gods; and he applauds the people who would not clap their hands, even in approval
of the Goddess of Victory, because she had shown herself in such bad company.[160] There are,
however, but three lines on the subject, showing how little there is in that statement of Cornelius
Nepos that he who had read Cicero's letters carefully wanted but little more to be well informed
of the history of the day.

Cæsar was not a man likely to be turned away from his purpose of ruling well by personal pride--less
likely, we should say, than any self-made despot dealt with in history. He did make efforts
to be as he was before. He endeavored to live on terms of friendship with his old friends;
but the spirit of pride which had taken hold of him was too much for him. Power had got possession
of him, and he could not stand against it. It was sad to see the way in which it compelled
him to make himself a prey to the conspirators, were it not that we learn from history how
impossible it is that a man should raise himself above the control of his fellow-men without
suffering.

[Sidenote: B.C. 45, ætat. 62.]

During these days Cicero kept himself in the country, giving himself up to his philosophical
writings, and indulging in grief for Tullia. Efforts were repeatedly made to bring him to Rome,
and he tells Atticus in irony that if he is wanted there simply as an augur, the augurs have
nothing to do with the opening of temples. In the same letter he speaks of an interview he
has just had with his nephew Quintus, who had come to him in his disgrace. He wants to go to
the Parthian war, but he has not money to support him. Then Cicero uses, as he says, the eloquence
of Atticus, and holds his tongue.[161] We can imagine how very unpleasant the interview must
have been. Cicero, however, decides that he will go up to the city, so that he may have Atticus
with him on his birthday. This letter was written toward the close of the year, and Cicero's
birthday was the 3d of January.

He then goes to Rome, and undertakes to plead the cause of Deiotarus, the King of Galatia,
before Cæsar. This very old man had years ago become allied with Pompey, and, as far as we
can judge, been singularly true to his idea of Roman power. He had seen Pompey in all his glory
when Pompey had come to fight Mithridates. The Tetrarchs in Asia Minor, of whom this Deiotarus
was one, had a hard part to play when the Romans came among them. They were forced to comply,
either with their natural tendency to resist their oppressors, or else were obliged to fleece
their subjects in order to satisfy the cupidity of the invaders. We remember Ariobarzanes,
who sent his subjects in gangs to Rome to be sold as slaves in order to pay Pompey the interest
on his debt. Deiotarus had similarly found his best protection in being loyal to Pompey, and
had in return been made King of Armenia by a decree of the Roman Senate. He joined Pompey at
the Pharsalus, and, when the battle was over, returned to his own country to look for further
forces wherewith to aid the Republic. Unfortunately for him, Cæsar was the conqueror, and Deiotarus
found himself obliged to assist the conqueror with his troops. Cæsar seems never to have forgiven
him his friendship for Pompey. He was not a Roman, and was unworthy of forgiveness. Cæsar took
away from him the kingdom of Armenia, but left him still titular King of Galatia. But this
enmity was known in the king's own court, and among his own family. His own daughter's son,
one Castor, became desirous of ruining his grandfather, and brought a charge against the king.
Cæsar had been the king's compelled guest in his journey in quest of Pharnaces, and had passed
quickly on. Now, when the war was over and Cæsar had returned from his five conquered nations,
Castor came forward with his accusation. Deiotarus, according to his grandson, had endeavored
to murder Cæsar while Cæsar was staying with him. At this distance of time and place we cannot
presume to know accurately what the circumstances were; but it appears to have been below the
dignity of Cæsar to listen to such a charge. He did do so, however, and heard more than one
speech on the subject delivered in favor of the accused. Brutus spoke on behalf of the aged
king, and spoke in vain. Cicero did not speak in vain, for Cæsar decided that he would pronounce
no verdict till he had himself been again in the East, and had there made further inquiries.
He never returned to the East; but the old king lived to fight once more, and again on the
losing side. He was true to the party he had taken, and ranged himself with Brutus and Cassius
at the field of Philippi.

The case was tried, if tried it can be called, in Cæsar's private house, in which the audience
cannot have been numerous. Cæsar seems to have admitted Cicero to say what could be said for
his friend, rather than as an advocate to plead for his client, so that no one should accuse
him, Cæsar, of cruelty in condemning the criminal. The speech must have occupied twenty minutes
in the delivery, and we are again at a loss to conceive how Cæsar should have found the time
to listen to it. Cicero declares that he feels the difficulty of pleading in so unusual a place--within
the domestic walls of a man's private house, and without any of those accustomed supports to
oratory which are to be found in a crowded law court. "But," he says, "I rest in peace when
I look into your eyes and behold your countenance." The speech is full of flattery, but it
is turned so adroitly that we almost forgive it.[162]

There is a passage in which Cicero compliments the victor on his well-known mercy in his victories--from
which we may see how much Cæsar thought of the character he had achieved for himself in this
particular. "Of you alone, O Cæsar, is it boasted that no one has fallen under your hands but
they who have died with arms in their hands."[163] All who had been taken had been pardoned.
No man had been put to death when the absolute fighting was brought to an end. Cæsar had given
quarter to all. It is the modern, generous way of fighting. When our country is invaded, and
we drive back the invaders, we do not, if victorious, slaughter their chief men. Much less,
when we invade a country, do we kill or mutilate all those who have endeavored to protect their
own homes. Cæsar has evidently much to boast, and among the Italians he has caused it to be
believed. It suited Cicero to assert it in Cæsar's ears. Cæsar wished to be told of his own
clemency among the men of his own country. But because Cæsar boasted, and Cicero was complaisant,
posterity is not to run away with the boast, and call it true. For all that is great in Cæsar's
character I am willing to give him credit; but not for mercy; not for any of those divine gifts
the loveliness of which was only beginning to be perceived in those days by some few who were
in advance of their time. It was still the maxim of Rome that a "supplicatio" should be granted
only when two thousand of the enemy should have been left on the field. We have something still
left of the pagan cruelty about us when we send triumphant words of the numbers slain on the
field of battle. We cannot but remember that Cæsar had killed the whole Senate of the Veneti,
a nation dwelling on the coast of Brittany, and had sold all the people as slaves, because
they had detained the messengers he had sent to them during his wars in Gaul. "Gravius vindicandum
statuit"[164]--"He had thought it necessary to punish them somewhat severely." Therefore he
had killed the entire Senate, and enslaved the entire people. This is only one of the instances
of wholesale horrible cruelty which he committed throughout his war in Gaul--of cruelty so
frightful that we shudder as we think of the sufferings of past ages. The ages have gone their
way, and the sufferings are lessened by increased humanity. But we cannot allow Cicero's compliment
to pass idly by. The "nemo nisi armatus" referred to Italians, and to Italians, we may take
it, of the upper rank--among whom, for the sake of dramatic effect, Deiotarus was placed for
the occasion.

This was the last of Cicero's casual speeches. It was now near the end of the year, and on
the ides of March following it was fated that Cæsar should die. After which there was a lull
in the storm for a while, and then Cicero broke out into that which I have called his final
scream of liberty. There came the Philippics--and then the end. This speech of which I have
given record as spoken Pro Rege Deiotaro was the last delivered by him for a private purpose.
Forty-two he has spoken hitherto, of which something of the story has been told; the Philippics
of which I have got to speak are fourteen in number, making the total number of speeches which
we possess to be fifty-six. But of those spoken by him we have not a half, and of those which
we possess some have been declared by the great critics to be absolutely spurious. The great
critics have perhaps been too hard upon them: they have all been polished. Cicero himself was
so anxious for his future fame that he led the way in preparing them for the press. Quintilian
tells us that Tiro adapted them.[165] Others again have come after him and have retouched them,
sometimes, no doubt, making them smoother, and striking out morsels which would naturally become
unintelligible to later readers. We know what he himself did to the Milo. Others subsequently
may have received rougher usage, but still from loving hands. Bits have been lost, and other
bits interpolated, and in this way have come to us the speeches which we possess. But we know
enough of the history of the times, and are sufficient judges of the language, to accept them
as upon the whole authentic. The great critic, when he comes upon a passage against which his
very soul recoils, on the score of its halting Latinity, rises up in his wrath and tears the
oration to tatters, till he will have none of it. One set of objectionable words he encounters
after another, till the whole seems to him to be damnable, and the oration is condemned. It
has been well to allude to this, because in dealing with these orations it is necessary to
point out that every word cannot be accepted as having been spoken as we find it printed. Taken
collectively, we may accept them as a stupendous monument of human eloquence and human perseverance.

[Sidenote: B.C. 45, ætat. 62.]

