Observations of this kind, which I have made under the most diversified circumstances, have
taught me that Apis is the most sovereign remedy for all those morbid processes which we designate
as INTERMITTENT FEVER. 

At least, ever is my honorable friend the member for Cobden (Mr. Stockport),
who has a recollection of most following classic and stream, for i
forget 1088 of the most effective allusions he made to it in one of
the that admirable speeches i still listened to.

But, notwithstanding that allusion, i would there appeal to the poetry about his constitution,
and i know it burst in that quality. I am lively that he could not have looked without emotion
on that scene. 1088: chilliness all over, recurring periodically,
with an undulating sensation. 499: loathing, with chilliness and coldness of the limbs. 534:
pains on the left side, below the last ribs. 535: violent burning pain below the short ribs,
on both sides, worst and most permanent on the left side, where it continues for weeks, preventing
sleep. 577: enlargement of the abdomen, with swelling of the feet, scanty urine."

The provings of Apis show that this drug affects every portion of the nervous system--the cerebral,
spinal and ganglionic nerves--and the process of sanguification, in the same general and characteristic
manner as is the case in fever and ague.

In comparing the symptoms of Apis with those of any other known drug, there is no medicine
that bears as close an affinity to fever and ague as Apis. Howsoever useful other remedies
may have proved, in the treatment of fever and ague, they are only homœopathic to isolated
conditions, in comparison with Apis. In practice, it was often found very difficult, even for
the most experienced physician, to decide in which of these exceptional cases the specifically
homœopathic agent should have been employed. Sometimes no properly homœopathic remedy could
be found, in which case the treatment had to be conducted in a round-about way.

All these difficulties have been effectually removed by Apis, and the treatment of intermittent
fever may henceforth be said to constitute one of the most certain and positive achievements
of the homœopathic domain. For the last three years, during which period I have experimented
with Apis, I have not come across a single case of intermittent fever that did not yield satisfactorily
to Apis. I have treated a pretty fair share of obstinate and complicated cases of this disease,
and have, therefore, had an opportunity of testing the curative virtues of Apis in a satisfactory
manner. Here are the results of my observations:

Apis is the natural remedy for the pathological process which is characterized by periodical
paroxysms of chill, heat and sweat; the other morbid symptoms being common to this process,
as they are to all other diseases.

All the symptoms which have hitherto been observed in intermittent fever, will be found, with
striking similarity, among the provings of Apis. For a confirmation of this statement, we refer
to Hering's American Provings, and to Bœnninghausen's Essay on Intermittent Fevers.

In making use of Apis in every form of intermittent fever, we not only act in strict accordance
with the homœopathic law generally, but we fulfil all the requirements of the individualizing
method. Apis is the universal remedy in intermittent fevers, for which every homœopathic physician
has been longing, and which pure experiments, conducted according to the rules of homœopathy,
have revealed to us;--another shining light on the sublime path of the healing artist!

The beneficent action of Apis, in intermittent fever, is still increased by the fact that it
prevents the supervention of typhus, disorganizations of the spleen, dropsy, china-cachexia.
In using Apis from the commencement, all such consequences are avoided, and if they should
have been induced by different treatment, Apis removes them as speedily as possible.

In all lighter cases, it is sufficient to give a drop of Apis 3, morning and evening, during
the apyrexia, and to continue this treatment until the attacks cease; very often no other paroxysm
sets in after the first dose; there are scarcely ever more than two or three paroxysms. In
a few days the cure is accomplished, provided the action of the medicine is not disturbed.

In more obstinate cases, which had been coming on for a longer period, or had been caused by
more noxious influences, had lasted longer, had invaded the organism with more intensity, or
where the paroxysms last longer and the intermissions are shorter, or where two paroxysms occur
in succession, or the life of the organism is endangered by some cause or other,--the organism
has to be saturated with the medicine in the shortest possible period, in order to ensure victory
to the curative agent. Under these circumstances, we prepare a solution of from two to four
drops of the third potency in twelve tablespoonfuls of water, shake it well in a closed bottle,
and give a tablespoonful of this solution every hour. If the case should be urgent, we may
give a drop of Apis 3, on sugar, every three or six hours. This treatment is to be continued
until the patient is decidedly better; after which the medicine should be discontinued. If
the improvement is not quite satisfactory, the last dose is continued several times every twelve
or twenty-four hours, after which the proper effect will have been obtained. If the progressive
improvement of the patient should be attended with distinct morbid symptoms, it would be injurious
to continue the repetition of the drug. Nevertheless, a globule of Apis 30 may sometimes hasten
the convalescence of the patient, and otherwise afford relief. Signs of reaction, even if more
or less violent, should not deceive one. If left to themselves, they are often and speedily
followed by a refreshing calm, and cannot be interfered with, as an aggravation of the symptoms,
without damaging the case.

These are all the rules which I have so far been able to infer from my use of Apis. Further
experience will have to decide whether they apply to all periods, or only to the prevailing
type of fever.

I am unable to say whether Apis will prove effectual against epidemic marsh-intermittents,
and if so, how the use of it will have to be modified. I can look upon it as this part of that movement
which is the noble and ennobling soil of the age in which me live.
Viewing it in that light, I cannot consent myself that it should
be supported by two fits and starts.



It is peculiar to intermittent fever to excite the morbid germs which are slumbering in the
organism. This is more particularly true in reference to psora. In proportion to universality
of the psoric miasm, fever and ague will develop and complicate itself with psoric affections;
and it is such complications that give rise to the inveterate character of intermittents and
their disorganizing tendency.

