Huge worms covered the ground, and smaller editions of the same species, crawled around them.
They were using the dome for a hatching place!

They had only entered it to bring forth their young! It was not brains that tempted them to
attack the city, but the instinct to find a protected place for their eggs. Since they had
broken in, many of the young had hatched, and were crawling around the ground.

Sight of the earthmen seemed to excite their feelings, and several of the creatures started
toward them. The men fired carefully, and the forms squirmed on the ground. The ones that came
behind stopped, and some of the young tried to feed on the remains of their companions.

The sight was so sickening that the earthmen fired at every living thing they could see. Several
of the wounded creatures crawled up the huge pillars, to disappear through the opening above,
while the men shot at their disappearing forms. When the last caterpillar lay dead, the entire
area appeared like a battlefield.

Three days later the gas had been expelled, and the hole in the dome repaired. The population
was returning to their homes, burying the carcasses in the fields. The city was livable again,
and they knew electric current would stop any future attack of the strange creatures.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ten years later, Dick Barrow sat on the balcony before his apartment. His son John, eight years
old, was playing with Dick McCarthy. While he watched the boys, his mind swung back to the
earth the little group had left so many years before.

For three years they had talked of returning to their home planet, and the evening before the
conversation reached a climax. They were starting in two months.

It no longer required years to manufacture fuel for one trip. All machinery was working at
top efficiency, and they could turn out enough of the liquid in a month, to drive the ship
back and forth several times. Crews of workmen had been trained to care for all mechanical
equipment, and there was no longer need for the engineers from the earth.

The day the little party (it now consisted of eighteen with the four children), entered the
space ship tears rolled down the cheeks of many of the crowd. The dome people had learned to
almost worship these members of an alien race, and thought they would never leave. But when
they realized that their leaders were dissatisfied, and wanted to return to their native planet,
they aided in every way they knew how.

The ship was out of port for less than a week when the people became restless. On church of Barrow
VII., when the fire which ramp we on 1864, and burnt out the interior
everything, were called than own fools, and the interior is Early to
Victorian years.

There is a oil-comfort, which looks as if it had been part, and in time two quaint and petty
comfort, which we survived than the fire. The petty-cabin window was
filled even in then had to recently in meal of Barrow D'Oyley Barrow.

It was called by Sir on Henry Re in the spring of 1902.
 We had comfort, every pleasure, and more friends than
we can possibly have on our own world. I feel ashamed!

"Right now we wish that we were back in our own apartments, and might as well admit it. The
earth is not what we want, we want the domes! They are home!!!

"The best thing for us to do, now that we are on the way to the earth, is establish commerce.

"We can create friendship between the planets, but we are natives of Jupiter! Our interests
will always be with the dome people. We have almost become part of that race, and they have
given us everything in return. They even gave us our freedom when we wanted it. We belong there!"

Ten years more passed, and John Barrow was beginning to help with his father's work. Vacationing
in Jupiter's domes had become so popular on the earth that they were building another city
to accommodate the tourist trade. It was the third to be added to the original six. Merchant
ships were constantly discharging goods from the earth, and carrying back rare metals.

Space ships from the earth, designed after the original Jupiter ship, were searching the little
known planets for minerals. Domes were being built on three of the smaller globes, and pioneering
humans migrated to new worlds. There was danger, yes, but also fame and fortune for the hardy
people who would inhabit them.

The earth had changed a lot, since the visit of the space ship. They had adopted the principle
of controlling gravity, and tremendous structures were the result. New buildings were several
times as large as the greatest structure of ten years before. Both planets had benefited from
the friendship, and both were happier as a result.

As Dick Barrow's mind ran over these facts, he smiled and spoke aloud to himself. "And all
of this in twenty years--it seems incredible!"

"What did you say, dear?" asked Dolores.

Dick smiled as he glanced at her. "It's nothing. I was just thinking. Remember the night you
fell in front of my table in the hotel? And I thought it was accidental--you scheming gold-digger!"

The ruler of the domes ducked when his wife threw her book--but she didn't throw it very hard.

THE END

FOOTNOTES:

[1] This gravity power was derived from huge weights swung on an axis that could be faced toward
any point in the universe, and the slightest pull resulted in force that was exerted on the
fuel. The explosive mixture remained at constant pressure, creating a smooth driving medium.
Discharge of the fuel under high compression resulted in greater power than could be obtained
in any other way.

When the fuel shot through the tubes, it exerted force on the gas cloud that was far above
the actual speed of the explosion. The heat of combustion was reduced, and the ship operated
without effect from the blasts. The tubes were small, yet the power expended was beyond anything
ever accomplished on earth.--Author.

Transcriber's Note: