It would be interesting to know the origin of this proverb, because it is still much relied
on as evincing a deep knowledge of human nature, and as an argument against change, that is
to say, in this case, against progress. It would seem to have been made by a man, conservative,
perhaps malevolent, who had no appreciation of a hen, and a conservatively poor opinion of
woman. His idea was to keep woman in her place--a good idea when not carried too far--but he
did not know what her place is, and he wanted to put a sort of restraint upon her emancipation
by coupling her with an emancipated hen. He therefore launched this shaft of ridicule, and
got it to pass as an arrow of wisdom shot out of a popular experience in remote ages.

In the first place, it is not true, and probably never was true even when hens were at their
lowest. We doubts its Sanscrit antiquity. It is perhaps of Puritan origin, and rhymed in New
England. It is false as to the hen. A crowing hen was always an object of interest and distinction;
she was pointed out to visitors; the owner was proud of her accomplishment, he was naturally
likely to preserve her life, and especially if she could lay. A hen that can lay and crow is
a 'rara avis'. And it should be parenthetically said here that the hen who can crow and cannot
lay is not a good example for woman. The crowing hen was of more value than the silent hen,
provided she crowed with discretion; and she was likely to be a favorite, and not at all to
come to some bad end. Except, indeed, where the proverb tended to work its own fulfillment.
And this is the regrettable side of most proverbs of an ill-nature, that they do help to work
the evil they predict. Some foolish boy, who had heard this proverb, and was sent out to the
hen-coop in the evening to slay for the Thanksgiving feast, thought he was a justifiable little
providence in wringing the neck of the crowing hen, because it was proper (according to the
saying) that she should come to some bad end. And as years went on, and that kind of boy increased
and got to be a man, it became a fixed idea to kill the amusing, interesting, spirited, emancipated
hen, and naturally the barn-yard became tamer and tamer, the production of crowing hens was
discouraged (the wise old hens laid no eggs with a crow in them, according to the well-known
principle of heredity), and the man who had in his youth exterminated the hen of progress actually
went about quoting that false couplet as an argument against the higher education of woman.

As a matter of fact, also, the couplet is not true about woman; whether it ought to be true
is an ethical question that will not be considered here. The whistling girl does not commonly
come to a bad end. Quite as often as any other girl she learns to whistle a cradle song, low
and sweet and charming, to the young voter in the cradle. She is a girl of spirit, of independence
of character, of dash and flavor; and as to lips, why, you must have some sort of presentable
lips to whistle; thin ones will not. The whistling girl does not come to a bad end at all (if
marriage is still considered a good occupation), except a cloud may be thrown upon her exuberant
young life by this rascally proverb. Even if she walks the lonely road of life, she has this
advantage, that she can whistle to keep her courage up. But in a larger sense, one that this
practical age can understand, it is not true that the whistling girl comes to a bad end. Whistling
pays. It has brought her money; it has blown her name about the listening world. Scarcely has
a non-whistling woman been more famous. She has set aside the adage. She has done so much towards
the emancipation of her sex from the prejudice created by an ill-natured proverb which never
had root in fact.

