MR. PERCIVAL LOWELL'S DISCOVERIES AND THEORIES.

The Observatory in Arizona.

In 1894, after a careful search for the best atmospheric conditions, Mr. Lowell established
his observatory near the town of Flagstaff in Arizona, in a very dry and uniform climate, and
at an elevation of 7300 feet above the sea. He then possessed a fine equatorial telescope of
18 inches aperture and 26 feet focal length, besides two smaller ones, all of the best quality.
To these he added in 1896 a telescope with 24 inch object glass, the last work of the celebrated
firm of Alvan Clark & Sons, with which he has made his later discoveries. He thus became perhaps
more favourably situated than any astronomer in the northern hemisphere, and during the last
twelve years has made a specialty of the study of Mars, besides doing much valuable astronomical
work on other planets.

Mr, Lowell's recent Books upon Mars.

In 1905 Mr. Lowell published an illustrated volume giving a full account of his observations
of Mars from 1894 to 1903, chiefly for the use of astronomers; and he has now given us a popular
volume summarising the whole of his work on the planet, and published both in America and England
by the Macmillan Company. This very interesting volume is fully illustrated with twenty plates,
four of them coloured, and more than forty figures in the text, showing the great variety of
details from which the larger general maps have been constructed.

Non-natural Features of Mars.

But what renders this work especially interesting to all intelligent readers is, that the author
has here, for the first time, fully set forth his views both as to the habitability of Mars
and as to its being actually inhabited by beings comparable with ourselves in intellect. The
larger part of the work is in fact devoted to a detailed description of what he terms the 'Non-natural
Features' of the planet's surface, including especially a full account of the 'Canals,' single
and double; the 'Oases,' as he terms the dark spots at their intersections; and the varying
visibility of both, depending partly on the Martian seasons; while the five concluding chapters
deal with the possibility of animal life and the evidence in favour of it. He also upholds
the theory of the canals having been constructed for the purpose of 'husbanding' the scanty
water-supply that exists; and throughout the whole of this argument he clearly shows that he
considers the evidence to be satisfactory, and that the only intelligible explanation of the
whole of the phenomena he so clearly sets forth is, that the inhabitants of Mars have carried
out on their small and naturally inhospitable planet a vast system of irrigation-works, far
greater both in its extent, in its utility, and its effect upon their world as a habitation
for civilised beings, than anything we have yet done upon our earth, where our destructive
agencies are perhaps more prominent than those of an improving and recuperative character.

A Challenge to the Thinking World.

This volume is therefore in the nature of a challenge, not so much to astronomers as to the
educated world at large, to investigate the evidence for so portentous a conclusion. To do
this requires only a general acquaintance with modern science, more especially with mechanics
and physics, while the main contention (with which I shall chiefly deal) that the features
termed 'canals' are really works of art and necessitate the presence of intelligent organic
beings, requires only care and judgment in drawing conclusions from admitted facts. As I have
already paid some attention to this problem and have expressed the opinion that Mars is not
habitable,[2] judging from the evidence then available, and as few men of science have the
leisure required for a careful examination of so speculative a subject, I propose here to point
out what the facts, as stated by Mr. Lowell himself, do not render even probable much less
prove. Incidentally, I may be able to adduce evidence of a more or less weighty character,
which seems to negative the possibility of any high form of animal life on Mars, and, a fortiori,
the development of such life as might culminate in a being equal or superior to ourselves.
As most popular works on Astronomy for the last ten years at least, as well as many scientific
periodicals and popular magazines, have reproduced some of the maps of Mars by Schiaparelli,
Lowell, and others, the general appearance of its surface will be familiar to most readers,
who will thus be fully able to appreciate Mr. Lowell's account of his own further discoveries
which I may have to quote. One of the best of these maps I am able to give as a frontispiece
to this volume, and to this I shall mainly refer.

[Footnote 2: Man's Place in the Universe p. 267 (1903).]

The Canals as described by Mr. Lowell.

In the clear atmosphere of Arizona, Mr. Lowell has been able on various favourable occasions
to detect a network of straight lines, meeting or crossing each other at various angles, and
often extending to a thousand or even over two thousand miles in length. They are seen to cross
both the light and the dark regions of the planet's surface, often extending up to or starting
from the polar snow-caps. Most of these lines are so fine as only to be visible on special
occasions of atmospheric clearness and steadiness, which hardly ever occur at lowland stations,
even with the best instruments, and almost all are seen to be as perfectly straight as if drawn
with a ruler.

The Double Canals.

Under exceptionally favourable conditions, many of the lines that have been already seen single
appear double--a pair of equally fine lines exactly parallel throughout their whole length,
and appearing, as Mr. Lowell says, "clear cut upon the disc, its twin lines like the rails
of a railway track." Both Schiaparelli and Lowell were at first so surprised at this phenomenon
that they thought it must be an optical illusion, and it was only after many observations in
different years, and by the application of every conceivable test, that they both became convinced
that they witnessed a real feature of the planet's surface. Mr. Lowell says he has now seen
them hundreds of times, and that his first view of one was 'the most startlingly impressive'
sight he has ever witnessed.

Dimensions of the Canals.

A few dimensions of these strange objects must be given in order that readers may appreciate
their full strangeness and inexplicability. Out of more than four hundred canals seen and recorded
by Mr. Lowell, fifty-one, or about one eighth, are either constantly or occasionally seen to
be double, the appearance of duplicity being more or less periodical. Of 'canals' generally,
Mr. Lowell states that they vary in length from a few hundred to a few thousand miles long,
one of the largest being the Phison, which he terms 'a typical double canal,' and which is
said to be 2250 miles long, while the distance between its two constituents is about 130 miles.[3]
The actual width of each canal is from a minimum of about a mile up to several miles, in one
case over twenty. A great feature of the doubles is, that they are strictly parallel throughout
their whole course, and that in almost all cases they are so truly straight as to form parts
of a great circle of the planet's sphere. A few however follow a gradual but very distinct
curve, and such of these as are double present the same strict parallelism as those which are
straight.

[Footnote 3: This is on the opposite side of Mars from that shown in the frontispiece.]

Canals extend across the Seas.

It was only after seventeen years of observation of the canals that it was found that they
extended also into and across the dark spots and surfaces which by the earlier observers were
termed seas, and which then formed the only clearly distinguishable and permanent marks on
the planet's surface. At the present time, Professor Lowell states that this "curious triangulation
has been traced over almost every portion of the planet's surface, whether dark or light, whether
greenish, ochre, or brown in colour." In some parts they are much closer together than in others,
"forming a perfect network of lines and spots, so that to identify them all was a matter of
extreme difficulty." Two such portions are figured at pages 247 and 256 of Mr. Lowell's volume.

The Oases.

The curious circular black spots which are seen at the intersections of many of the canals,
and which in some parts of the surface are very numerous, are said to be more difficult of
detection than even the lines, being often blurred or rendered completely invisible by slight
irregularities in our own atmosphere, while the canals themselves continue visible. About 180
of these have now been found, and the more prominent of them are estimated to vary from 75
to 100 miles in diameter. There are however many much smaller, down to minute and barely visible
black points. Yet they all seem a little larger than the canals which enter them. Where the
canals are double, the spots (or 'oases' as Mr. Lowell terms them) lie between the two parallel
canals.

No one can read this book without admiration for the extreme perseverance in long continued
and successful observation, the results of which are here recorded; and I myself accept unreservedly
the substantial accuracy of the whole series. It must however always be remembered that the
growth of knowledge of the detailed markings has been very gradual, and that much of it has
only been seen under very rare and exceptional conditions. It is therefore quite possible that,
if at some future time a further considerable advance in instrumental power should be made,
or a still more favourable locality be found, the new discoveries might so modify present appearances
as to render a satisfactory explanation of them more easy than it is at present.

But though I wish to do the fullest justice to Mr. Lowell's technical skill and long years
of persevering work, which have brought to light the most complex and remarkable appearances
that any of the heavenly bodies present to us, I am obliged absolutely to part company with
him as regards the startling theory of artificial production which he thinks alone adequate
to explain them. So much is this the case, that the very phenomena, which to him seem to demonstrate
the intervention of intelligent beings working for the improvement of their own environment,
are those which seem to me to bear the unmistakable impress of being due to natural forces,
while they are wholly unintelligible as being useful works of art. I refer of course to the
great system of what are termed 'canals,' whether single or double. Of these I shall give my
own interpretation later on.

CHAPTER III.

THE CLIMATE AND PHYSIOGRAPHY OF MARS.

Mr. Lowell admits, and indeed urges strongly, that there are no permanent bodies of water on
Mars; that the dark spaces and spots, thought by the early observers to be seas, are certainly
not so now, though they may have been at an earlier period; that true clouds are rare, even
if they exist, the appearances that have been taken for them being either dust-storms or a
surface haze; that there is consequently no rain, and that large portions (about two-thirds)
of the planet's surface have all the characteristics of desert regions.

Snow-caps the only Source of Water.

This state of things is supposed to be ameliorated by the fact of the polar snows, which in
the winter cover the arctic and about half the temperate regions of each hemisphere alternately.
The maximum of the northern snow-caps is reached at a period of the Martian winter corresponding
to the end of February with us. About the end of March the cap begins to shrink in size (in
the Northern Hemisphere), and this goes on so rapidly that early in the June of Mars it is
reduced to its minimum. In 1882 the same observer witnessed the steady disappearance of 1,600,000
square miles of the southern snow-cap, an area nearly one-third of that hemisphere of the planet.]

The rapid and comparatively early disappearance of the white covering is, very reasonably,
supposed to prove that it is of small thickness, corresponding perhaps to about a foot or two
of snow in north-temperate America and Europe, and that by the increasing amount of sun-heat
it is converted, partly into liquid and partly into vapour. Coincident with this disappearance
and as a presumed result of the water (or other liquid) producing inundations, the bluish-green
tinge which appears on the previously dark portion of the surface is supposed to be due to
a rapid growth of vegetation.

But the evidence on this point does not seem to be clear or harmonious, for in the four coloured
plates showing the planet's surface at successive Martian dates from December 30th to February
21st, not only is a considerable extent of the south temperate zone shown to change rapidly
from bluish-green to chocolate-brown and then again to bluish-green, but the portions furthest
from the supposed fertilising overflow are permanently green, as are also considerable portions
in the opposite or northern hemisphere, which one would think would then be completely dried up.

No Hills upon Mars.

The special point to which I here wish to call attention is this. Mr. Lowell's main contention
is, that the surface of Mars is wonderfully smooth and level. Not only are there no mountains,
but there are no hills or valleys or plateaux. This assumption is absolutely essential to support
the other great assumption, that the wonderful network of perfectly straight lines over nearly
the whole surface of the planet are irrigation canals. It is not alleged that irregularities
or undulations of a few hundreds or even one or two thousands of feet could possibly be detected,
while certainly all we know of planetary formation or structure point strongly towards some
inequalities of surface. Mr. Lowell admits that the dark portions of the surface, when examined
on the terminator (the margin of the illuminated portion), do look like hollows and may be
the beds of dried-up seas; yet the supposed canals run across these old sea-beds in perfect
straight lines just as they do across the many thousand miles of what are admitted to be deserts--which
he describes in these forcible terms: "Pitiless as our deserts are, they are but faint forecasts
of the state of things existent on Mars at the present time."

