I suppose the time has come when I am expected to say something about fertilizers: all agriculturists
do. When you plant, you think you cannot fertilize too much: when you get the bills for the
manure, you think you cannot fertilize too little. Of course you do not expect to get the value
of the manure back in fruits and vegetables; but something is due to science,--to chemistry
in particular. You must have a knowledge of soils, must have your soil analyzed, and then go
into a course of experiments to find what it needs. It needs analyzing,--that, I am clear about:
everything needs that. You had better have the soil analyzed before you buy: if there is "pusley"
in it, let it alone. See if it is a soil that requires much hoeing, and how fine it will get
if there is no rain for two months. But when you come to fertilizing, if I understand the agricultural
authorities, you open a pit that will ultimately swallow you up,--farm and all. It is the great
subject of modern times, how to fertilize without ruinous expense; how, in short, not to starve
the earth to death while we get our living out of it. Practically, the business is hardly to
the taste of a person of a poetic turn of mind. The details of fertilizing are not agreeable.
Michael Angelo, who tried every art, and nearly every trade, never gave his mind to fertilizing.
It is much pleasanter and easier to fertilize with a pen, as the agricultural writers do, than
with a fork. And this leads me to say, that, in carrying on a garden yourself, you must have
a "consulting" gardener; that is, a man to do the heavy and unpleasant work. To such a man,
I say, in language used by Demosthenes to the Athenians, and which is my advice to all gardeners,
"Fertilize, fertilize, fertilize!"

THIRTEENTH WEEK

I find that gardening has unsurpassed advantages for the study of natural history; and some
scientific facts have come under my own observation, which cannot fail to interest naturalists
and un-naturalists in about the same degree. Much, for instance, has been written about the
toad, an animal without which no garden would be complete. But little account has been made
of his value: the beauty of his eye alone has been dwelt on; and little has been said of his
mouth, and its important function as a fly and bug trap. His habits, and even his origin, have
been misunderstood. Why, as an illustration, are toads so plenty after a thunder-shower? All
my life long, no one has been able to answer me that question. Why, after a heavy shower, and
in the midst of it, do such multitudes of toads, especially little ones, hop about on the gravel-walks?
For many years, I believed that they rained down; and I suppose many people think so still.
They are so small, and they come in such numbers only in the shower, that the supposition is
not a violent one. "Thick as toads after a shower," is one of our best proverbs. I asked an
explanation 'of this of a thoughtful woman,--indeed, a leader in the great movement to have
all the toads hop in any direction, without any distinction of sex or religion. Her reply was,
that the toads come out during the shower to get water. This, however, is not the fact. I have
discovered that they come out not to get water. I deluged a dry flower-bed, the other night,
with pailful after pailful of water. Instantly the toads came out of their holes in the dirt,
by tens and twenties and fifties, to escape death by drowning. The big ones fled away in a
ridiculous streak of hopping; and the little ones sprang about in the wildest confusion. The
toad is just like any other land animal: when his house is full of water, he quits it. These
facts, with the drawings of the water and the toads, are at the service of the distinguished
scientists of Albany in New York, who were so much impressed by the Cardiff Giant.

The domestic cow is another animal whose ways I have a chance to study, and also to obliterate
in the garden. One of my neighbors has a cow, but no land; and he seems desirous to pasture
her on the surface of the land of other people: a very reasonable desire. The man proposed
that he should be allowed to cut the grass from my grounds for his cow. I knew the cow, having
often had her in my garden; knew her gait and the size of her feet, which struck me as a little
large for the size of the body. Having no cow myself, but acquaintance with my neighbor's,
I told him that I thought it would be fair for him to have the grass. He was, therefore, to
keep the grass nicely cut, and to keep his cow at home. I waited some time after the grass
needed cutting; and, as my neighbor did not appear, I hired it cut. No sooner was it done than
he promptly appeared, and raked up most of it, and carried it away. He had evidently been waiting
that opportunity. When the grass grew again, the neighbor did not appear with his scythe; but
one morning I found the cow tethered on the sward, hitched near the clothes-horse, a short
distance from the house. This seemed to be the man's idea of the best way to cut the grass.
I disliked to have the cow there, because I knew her inclination to pull up the stake, and
transfer her field of mowing to the garden, but especially because of her voice. She has the
most melancholy "moo" I ever heard. It is like the wail of one uninfallible, excommunicated,
and lost. It is a most distressing perpetual reminder of the brevity of life and the shortness
of feed. It is unpleasant to the family. We sometimes hear it in the middle of the night, breaking
the silence like a suggestion of coming calamity. It is as bad as the howling of a dog at a
funeral.

I told the man about it; but he seemed to think that he was not responsible for the cow's voice.
I then told him to take her away; and he did, at intervals, shifting her to different parts
of the grounds in my absence, so that the desolate voice would startle us from unexpected quarters.
If I were to unhitch the cow, and turn her loose, I knew where she would go. If I were to lead
her away, the question was, Where? for I did not fancy leading a cow about till I could find
somebody who was willing to pasture her. To this dilemma had my excellent neighbor reduced
me. But I found him, one Sunday morning,--a day when it would not do to get angry, tying his
cow at the foot of the hill; the beast all the time going on in that abominable voice. I told
the man that I could not have the cow in the grounds. He said, "All right, boss;" but he did
not go away. I asked him to clear out. The man, who is a French sympathizer from the Republic
of Ireland, kept his temper perfectly. He said he wasn't doing anything, just feeding his cow
a bit: he wouldn't make me the least trouble in the world. I reminded him that he had been
told again and again not to come here; that he might have all the grass, but he should not
bring his cow upon the premises. The imperturbable man assented to everything that I said,
and kept on feeding his cow. Before I got him to go to fresh scenes and pastures new, the Sabbath
was almost broken; but it was saved by one thing: it is difficult to be emphatic when no one
is emphatic on the other side. The man and his cow have taught me a great lesson, which I shall
recall when I keep a cow. I can recommend this cow, if anybody wants one, as a steady boarder,
whose keeping will cost the owner little; but, if her milk is at all like her voice, those
who drink it are on the straight road to lunacy.

I think I have said that we have a game-preserve. We keep quails, or try to, in the thickly
wooded, bushed, and brushed ravine. This bird is a great favorite with us, dead or alive, on
account of its tasteful plumage, its tender flesh, its domestic virtues, and its pleasant piping.
Besides, although I appreciate toads and cows, and all that sort of thing, I like to have a
game-preserve more in the English style. And we did. For in July, while the game-law was on,
and the young quails were coming on, we were awakened one morning by firing,--musketry-firing,
close at hand. My first thought was, that war was declared; but, as I should never pay much
attention to war declared at that time in the morning, I went to sleep again. But the occurrence
was repeated,--and not only early in the morning, but at night. There was calling of dogs,
breaking down of brush, and firing of guns. It is hardly pleasant to have guns fired in the
direction of the house, at your own quails. The hunters could be sometimes seen, but never
caught. Their best time was about sunrise; but, before one could dress and get to the front,
they would retire.

One morning, about four o'clock, I heard the battle renewed. I sprang up, but not in arms,
and went to a window. Polly (like another 'blessed damozel') flew to another window,--

   "The blessed damozel leaned out
    From the gold bar of heaven,"

and reconnoitered from behind the blinds.

   "The wonder was not yet quite gone
    From that still look of hers,"

when an armed man and a legged dog appeared in the opening. I was vigilantly watching him.

 .... "And now
    She spoke through the still weather."

"Are you afraid to speak to him?" asked Polly.

Not exactly,

 ...."she spoke as when
    The stars sang in their spheres.

"Stung by this inquiry, I leaned out of the window till

   "The bar I leaned on (was) warm,"

and cried,-- "Halloo, there! What are you doing?"

"Look out he don't shoot you," called out Polly from the other window, suddenly going on another
tack.

I explained that a sportsman would not be likely to shoot a gentleman in his own house, with
bird-shot, so long as quails were to be had.

"You have no business here: what are you after?" I repeated.

"Looking for a lost hen," said the man as he strode away.

The reply was so satisfactory and conclusive that I shut the blinds and went to bed.

But one evening I overhauled one of the poachers. Hearing his dog in the thicket, I rushed
through the brush, and came in sight of the hunter as he was retreating down the road. He came
to a halt; and we had some conversation in a high key. Of course I threatened to prosecute
him. I believe that is the thing to do in such cases; but how I was to do it, when I did not
know his name or ancestry, and couldn't see his face, never occurred to me. (I remember, now,
that a farmer once proposed to prosecute me when I was fishing in a trout-brook on his farm,
and asked my name for that purpose.) He said he should smile to see me prosecute him.

"You can't do it: there ain't no notice up about trespassing."

This view of the common law impressed me; and I said,

"But these are private grounds."

"Private h---!" was all his response.

You can't argue much with a man who has a gun in his hands, when you have none. Besides, it
might be a needle-gun, for aught I knew. I gave it up, and we separated.

There is this disadvantage about having a game preserve attached to your garden: it makes life
too lively.

FOURTEENTH WEEK

