Our worthy ancestors were, in their own view of the matter, the advance guard and forlorn hope
of Christendom in its contest with the bad angel. The New World, into which they had so valiantly
pushed the outposts of the Church militant, was to them, not God's world, but the Devil's.
They stood there on their little patch of sanctified territory like the gamekeeper of Der Freischutz
in the charmed circle; within were prayer and fasting, unmelodious psalmody and solemn hewing
of hereties, "before the Lord in Gilgal;" without were "dogs and sorcerers, red children of
perdition, Powah wizards," and "the foul fiend."  In their grand old wilderness, broken by
fair, broad rivers and dotted with loveliest lakes, hanging with festoons of leaf, and vine,
and flower, the steep sides of mountains whose naked tops rose over the surrounding verdure
like altars of a giant world,--with its early summer greenness and the many-colored wonder
of its autumn, all glowing as if the rainbows of a summer shower had fallen upon it, under
the clear, rich light of a sun to which the misty day of their cold island was as moonlight,--they
saw no beauty, they recognized no holy revelation.  It was to them terrible as the forest which
Dante traversed on his way to the world of pain.  Every advance step they made was upon the
enemy's territory.  And one has only to read the writings of the two Mathers to perceive that
that enemy was to them no metaphysical abstraction, no scholastic definition, no figment of
a poetical fancy, but a living, active reality, alternating between the sublimest possibilities
of evil and the lowest details of mean mischief; now a "tricksy spirit," disturbing the good-wife's
platters or soiling her newwashed linen, and anon riding the storm-cloud and pointing its thunder-bolts;
for, as the elder Mather pertinently inquires, "how else is it that our meeting-houses are
burned by the lightning?"  What was it, for instance, but his subtlety which, speaking through
the lips of Madame Hutchinson, confuted the "judges of Israel" and put to their wits' end the
godly ministers of the Puritan Zion?  Was not his evil finger manifested in the contumacious
heresy of Roger Williams?  Who else gave the Jesuit missionaries--locusts from the pit as they
were--such a hold on the affections of those very savages who would not have scrupled to hang
the scalp of pious Father Wilson himself from their girdles?  To the vigilant eye of Puritanism
was he not alike discernible in the light wantonness of the May-pole revellers, beating time
with the cloven foot to the vain music of obscene dances, and in the silent, hat-canopied gatherings
of the Quakers, "the most melancholy of the sects," as Dr. Moore calls them?  Perilous and
glorious was it, under these circumstances, for such men as Mather and Stoughton to gird up
their stout loins and do battle with the unmeasured, all-surrounding terror. Let no man lightly
estimate their spiritual knight-errantry.  The heroes of old romance, who went about smiting
dragons, lopping giants' heads, and otherwise pleasantly diverting themselves, scarcely deserve
mention in comparison with our New England champions, who, trusting not to carnal sword and
lance, in a contest with principalities and powers, "spirits that live throughout, Vital in
every part, not as frail man,"-- encountered their enemies with weapons forged by the stern
spiritual armorer of Geneva.  The life of Cotton Mather is as full of romance as the legends
of Ariosto or the tales of Beltenebros and Florisando in Amadis de Gaul.