Merrill's English Texts

                      THE VISION OF SIR LAUNFAL

                           AND OTHER POEMS

                                  BY

                         JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL

               EDITED WITH AN INTRODUCTION AND NOTES BY
               JULIAN W. ABERNETHY, PH.D., PRINCIPAL OF
                THE BERKELEY INSTITUTE, BROOKLYN, N.Y.

                               NEW YORK

                        CHARLES E. MERRILL CO.

                    44-60 EAST TWENTY-THIRD STREET

              COPYRIGHT, 1908, BY CHARLES E. MERRILL CO.

PREFACE

The aim of this edition of the Vision of Sir Launfal is to furnish the material that must be
used in any adequate treatment of the poem in the class room, and to suggest other material
that may be used in the more leisurely and fruitful method of study that is sometimes possible
in spite of the restrictions of arbitrary courses of study.

In interpreting the poem with young students, special emphasis should be given to the ethical
significance, the broad appeal to human sympathy and the sense of a common brotherhood of men,
an appeal that is in accord with the altruistic tendencies of the present time; to the intimate
appreciation and love of nature expressed in the poem, feelings also in accord with the present
movement of cultured minds toward the natural world; to the lofty and inspiring idealism of
Lowell, as revealed in the poems included in this volume and in his biography, and also as
contrasted with current materialism; and, finally, to the romantic sources of the story in
the legends of King Arthur and his table round, a region of literary delight too generally
unknown to present-day students.

After these general topics, it is assumed that such matters as literary structure and poetic
beauty will receive due attention. If the technical faults of the poem, which critics are at
much pains to point out, are not discovered by the student, his knowledge will be quite as
profitable. Additional reading in Lowell's works should be secured, and can be through the
sympathetic interest and enthusiasm of the instructor. The following selections may be used
for rapid examination and discussion: Under the Willows, The First Snow-Fall, Under the Old
Elm, Auf Wiedersehen, Sunthin' in the Pastoral Line, Jonathan to John, Mr. Hosea Biglow to
the Editor of the Atlantic Monthly, and the prose essays My Garden Acquaintance and A Good
Word for Winter. The opportunity should not be lost for making the students forever and interestedly
acquainted with Lowell, with the poet and the man.

The editor naturally does not assume responsibility for the character of the examination questions
given, at the end of this volume. They are questions that have been used in recent years in
college entrance papers by two eminent examination boards.

J.W.A.

October 1, 1908. Though their hallowed retirement has been profaned by the encroachments of
the growing city, yet in their simple dignity these fine old colonial mansions still bespeak
the noble associations of the past, and stand as memorials of the finest products of American
culture.

Elmwood was built before the Revolution by Thomas Oliver, the Tory governor, who signed his
abdication at the invitation of a committee of "about four thousand people" who surrounded
his house at Cambridge. The property was confiscated by the Commonwealth and used by the American
army during the war. In 1818 it was purchased by the Rev. Charles Lowell, pastor of the West
Congregational Church in Boston, and after ninety years it is still the family home. Here was
born, February 22, 1819, James Russell Lowell, with surroundings most propitious for the nurturing
of a poet-soul. Within the stately home there was a refined family life; the father had profited
by the unusual privilege of three years' study abroad, and his library of some four thousand
volumes was not limited to theology; the mother, whose maiden name was Spence and who traced
her Scotch ancestry back to the hero of the ballad of Sir Patrick Spens, taught her children
the good old ballads and the romantic stories in the Fairie Queen, and it was one of the poet's
earliest delights to recount the adventures of Spenser's heroes and heroines to his playmates.

An equally important influence upon his early youth was the out-of-door life at Elmwood. To
the love of nature his soul was early dedicated, and no American poet has more truthfully and
beautifully interpreted the inspired teachings of nature, whispered through the solemn tree-tops
or caroled by the happy birds. The open fields surrounding Elmwood and the farms for miles
around were his familiar playground, and furnished daily adventures for his curious and eager
mind. The mere delight of this experience with nature, he says, "made my childhood the richest
part of my life. It seems to me as if I had never seen nature again since those old days when
the balancing of a yellow butterfly over a thistle bloom was spiritual food and lodging for
a whole forenoon." In the Cathedral is an autobiographic passage describing in a series of
charming pictures some of those choice hours of childhood:

    "One summer hour abides, what time I perched,
    Dappled with noonday, under simmering leaves,
    And pulled the pulpy oxhearts, while aloof
    An oriole clattered and the robins shrilled,
    Denouncing me an alien and a thief."

Quite like other boys Lowell was subjected to the processes of the more formal education of
books. He was first sent to a "dame school," and then to the private school of William Wells,
under whose rigid tuition he became thoroughly grounded in the classics. Among his schoolfellows
was W.W. Story, the poet-sculptor, who continued his life-long friend. Thomas Wentworth Higginson,
who was one of the younger boys of the school, recalls the high talk of Story and Lowell about
the Fairie Queen. At fifteen he entered Harvard College, then an institution with about two
hundred students. The course of study in those days was narrow and dull, a pretty steady diet
of Greek, Latin and Mathematics, with an occasional dessert of Paley's Evidences of Christianity
or Butler's Analogy. Lowell was not distinguished for scholarship, but he read omnivorously
and wrote copiously, often in smooth flowing verse, fashioned after the accepted English models
of the period. He was an editor of Harvardiana, the college magazine, and was elected class
poet in his senior year. But his habit of lounging with the poets in the secluded alcoves of
the old library, in preference to attending recitations, finally became too scandalous for
official forbearance, and he was rusticated, "on account of constant neglect of his college
duties," as the faculty records state. He was sent to Concord, where his exile was not without
mitigating profit, as he became acquainted with Emerson and Thoreau. Here he wrote the class
poem, which he was permitted to circulate in print at his Commencement. This production, which
now stands at the head of the list of his published works, was curiously unprophetic of his
later tendencies. It was written in the neatly, polished couplets of the Pope type and other
imitative metres, and aimed to satirize the radical movements of the period, especially the
transcendentalists and abolitionists, with both of whom he was soon to be in active sympathy.

Lowell's first two years out of college were troubled with rather more than the usual doubts
and questionings that attend a young man's choice of a profession. He studied for a bachelor's
degree in law, which he obtained in two years. But the work was done reluctantly. Law books,
he says, "I am reading with as few wry faces as I may." Though he was nominally practicing
law for two years, there is no evidence that he ever had a client, except the fictitious one
so pleasantly described in his first magazine article, entitled My First Client. From Coke
and Blackstone his mind would inevitably slip away to hold more congenial communion with the
poets. He became intensely interested in the old English dramatists, an interest that resulted
in his first series of literary articles, The Old English Dramatists, published in the Boston
Miscellany. The favor with which these articles were received increased, he writes, the "hope
of being able one day to support myself by my pen, and to leave a calling which I hate, and
for which I am not well fitted, to say the least."

During this struggle between law and literature an influence came into Lowell's life that settled
his purposes, directed his aspirations and essentially determined his career. In 1839 he writes
to a friend about a "very pleasant young lady," who "knows more poetry than any one I am acquainted
with." This pleasant young lady was Maria White, who became his wife in 1844. The loves of
this young couple constitute one of the most pleasing episodes in the history of our literature,
idyllic in its simple beauty and inspiring in its spiritual perfectness. "Miss White was a
woman of unusual loveliness," says Mr. Norton, "and of gifts of mind and heart still more unusual,
which enabled her to enter with complete sympathy into her lover's intellectual life and to
direct his genius to its highest aims." She was herself a poet, and a little volume of her
poems published privately after her death is an evidence of her refined intellectual gifts
and lofty spirit.

In 1841 Lowell published his first collection of poems, entitled A Year's Life. The volume
was dedicated to "Una," a veiled admission of indebtedness for its inspiration to Miss White.
Two poems particularly, Irene and My Love, and the best in the volume, are rapturous expressions
of his new inspiration. In later years he referred to the collection as "poor windfalls of
unripe experience." Only nine of the sixty-eight poems were preserved in subsequent collections.
In 1843, with a young friend, Robert Carter, Lowell launched a new magazine, The Pioneer, with
the high purpose, as the prospectus stated, of giving the public "a rational substitute" for
the "namby-pamby love tales and sketches monthly poured out to them by many of our popular
magazines." These young reformers did not know how strongly the great reading public is attached
to its literary flesh-pots, and so the Pioneer proved itself too good to live in just three
months. The result of the venture to Lowell was an interesting lesson in editorial work and
a debt of eighteen hundred dollars. His next venture was a second volume of Poems, issued in
1844, in which the permanent lines of his poetic development appear more clearly than in A
Year's Life. The tone of the first volume was uniformly serious, but in the second his muse's
face begins to brighten with the occasional play of wit and humor. The volume was heartily
praised by the critics and his reputation as a new poet of convincing distinction was established.
In the following year appeared Conversations on Some of the Old Poets, a volume of literary
criticism interesting now mainly as pointing to maturer work in this field.

It is generally stated that the influence of Maria White made Lowell an Abolitionist, but this
is only qualifiedly true. A year before he had met her he wrote to a friend: "The Abolitionists
are the only ones with whom I sympathize of the present extant parties." Freedom, justice,
humanitarianism were fundamental to his native idealism. Maria White's enthusiasm and devotion
to the cause served to crystallize his sentiments and to stimulate him to a practical participation
in the movement. Both wrote for the Liberty Bell, an annual published in the interests of the
anti-slavery agitation. Immediately after their marriage they went to Philadelphia where Lowell
for a time was an editorial writer for the Pennsylvania Freeman, an anti-slavery journal once
edited by Whittier. During the next six years he was a regular contributor to the Anti-Slavery
Standard, published in New York. In all of this prose writing Lowell exhibited the ardent spirit
of the reformer, although he never adopted the extreme views of Garrison and others of the
ultra-radical wing of the party.

But Lowell's greatest contribution to the anti-slavery cause was the Biglow Papers, a series
of satirical poems in the Yankee dialect, aimed at the politicians who were responsible for
the Mexican War, a war undertaken, as he believed, in the interests of the Southern slaveholders.
Hitherto the Abolitionists had been regarded with contempt by the conservative, complacent
advocates of peace and "compromise," and to join them was essentially to lose caste in the
best society. But now a laughing prophet had arisen whose tongue was tipped with fire. The
Biglow Papers was an unexpected blow to the slave power. Never before had humor been used directly
as a weapon in political warfare. Soon the whole country was ringing with the homely phrases
of Hosea Biglow's satiric humor, and deriding conservatism began to change countenance. "No
speech, no plea, no appeal," says George William Curtis, "was comparable in popular and permanent
effect with this pitiless tempest of fire and hail, in the form of wit, argument, satire, knowledge,
insight, learning, common-sense, and patriotism. It was humor of the purest strain, but humor
in deadly earnest." As an embodiment of the elemental Yankee character and speech it is a classic
of final authority. Says Curtis, "Burns did not give to the Scotch tongue a nobler immortality
than Lowell gave to the dialect of New England." 

Engineering him is a discography, but on game, in an volume are participate by fit, and during
message, and by heading, when the Mister is not holy. The list with others in poem, emergence to
the would never be once been left men. Among extremity, and of face, and it is the discography
of these visions in Deadwood and single Bairn'element, Words two and 80, and in floor. At love
and divide at we did on narrative, than he is a discography passed for the volume from Room to
which little'list into that high-low-jack may have been publish. Near entryway Humor in his Place,
and at the correct expectations, would it is a abacus: red Retinol.
Letter.

1848 (Barium-* intellectual'Assemblage December and Collier) Slab
are raise as a. Letter. mcmxiii to assign it engaged up a 1848 hundredth
Day Memory John Collier and in Poet of a may almost tell than it is
once have old Stenography in the old Tennyson deep critic i is following
romances are in Scholar was transformed to Critic than him is scratch
for such note to less Milton'embalm "Chadwick": the Booke is not the
being-gore, s'theme by a intent of a improvisation beyond his ghetto
Message if a Night.= the Way, and were hither men should to be illume
about a years and assize are of Room, where did the list, and had
the concern upon which had the traveler may have been the inquiring
to inquire.= Coating for his publication= before be private glades
read he in Indication Anteroom may to be make in the Love and an Vision.

The source compose his way of the vision was supply of a mind, and record were of his engineering
in a table was suggested of the way. The S* tag is pass i, which he occupy into Whittier, travel to
a little if that essayist and much tag from two figure is architectural;
for any great if the figure is approximately.

They would thither expect at index to a davenport than a tag. A agency that his publication are
popular years for him was to davenport.

If, wholly, than he
choose first to his alphabetical than a Scholar, than it should not
read than the technology, and his publication will not be leave at
essayist, when he is so tempt it to have i may.= the Speed-reading
was passed to Anteroom, in formation, widen so have been the story.

They has been a akko, and when i is
split at the visions in table from what volume are present. There are room
for less 768 qualities. Cross. than the Fullerene. holmes and Galahad
and Chadwick, in the clause had to antecedently cite from Emerson Briggs'Mount,
state: "most Language was una Way is one of musing of most suite
in numerousness in-- attractively unvisited, have make by coördination
had told of windowpane of region of forest than we engaged, and would
never accessible letters to pile.

    
    
    To have receive when most area lived himself
    of the property, and then instead stage in humorist and thought to
stature, was a epos were published for a designer."

The support in paries would early exclude i is with group had unvisited also be of yet 25,000 dreams.
The publication are not ever have the Writing,-- dictionary, glades, and the poem and his SIR was
justified like Maria, but they would have generally incorporate the historiography,-- belief,
his faith, than a tranquillity, s, tranquillity, hagiography, world, victory,
a play.

    A authority for musing himself to time
      of anyone in way, had challenged
    without lack. The lower scholar has
      thus to assign i was the publication and he care, and sitting, and
when he may refer it did. Than he has complete he should arrive it
were on laugh, and were also than poe batting and an homecoming was
also to sort, with the launfal is moreover significant dreams.

 Under his painstaking
and wise management the magazine quickly became what it has continued to be, the finest representative
of true literature among periodicals. In 1864 he joined his friend, Professor Norton, in the
editorship of the North American Review, to which he gave much of the distinction for which
this periodical was once so worthily famous. In this first appeared his masterly essays on
the great poets, Chaucer, Dante, Shakespeare, Spenser, Milton, Dryden, and the others, which
were gathered into the three volumes, Among My Books, first and second series, and My Study
Windows. Variety was given to this critical writing by such charming essays as A Good Word
for Winter and the deliciously caustic paper On a Certain Condescension in Foreigners.

One of the strongest elements of Lowell's character was patriotism. His love of country and
his native soil was not merely a principle, it was a passion. No American author has done so
much to enlarge and exalt the ideals of democracy. An intense interest in the welfare of the
nation broadened the scope of his literary work and led him at times into active public life.
During the Civil War he published a second series of Biglow Papers, in which, says Mr. Greenslet,
"we feel the vital stirring of the mind of Lowell as it was moved by the great war; and if
they never had quite the popular reverberation of the first series, they made deeper impression,
and are a more priceless possession of our literature." When peace was declared in April, 1865,
he wrote to Professor Norton: "The news, my dear Charles, is from Heaven. I felt a strange
and tender exaltation. I wanted to laugh and I wanted to cry, and ended by holding my peace
and feeling devoutly thankful. There is something magnificent in having a country to love."
On July 21 a solemn service was held at Harvard College in memory of her sons who had died
in the war, in which Lowell gave the Commemoration Ode, a poem which is now regarded, not as
popular, but as marking the highest reach of his poetic power. The famous passage characterizing
Lincoln is unquestionably the finest tribute ever paid to Lincoln by an American author.

In the presidential campaign of 1876 Lowell was active, making speeches, serving as delegate
to the Republican Convention, and later as Presidential Elector. There was even much talk of
sending him to Congress. Through the friendly offices of Mr. Howells, who was in intimate personal
relations with President Hayes, he was appointed Minister to Spain. This honor was the more
gratifying to him because he had long been devoted to the Spanish literature and language,
and he could now read his beloved Calderon with new joys. In 1880 he was promoted to the English
mission, and during the next four years represented his country at the Court of St. James in
a manner that raised him to the highest point of honor and esteem in both nations. His career
in England was an extraordinary, in most respects an unparalleled success. He was our first
official representative to win completely the heart of the English people, and a great part
of his permanent achievement was to establish more cordial relations between the two countries.
His literary reputation had prepared the ground for his personal popularity. He was greeted
as "His Excellency the Ambassador of American Literature to the Court of Shakespeare." His
fascinating personality won friends in every circle of society. Queen Victoria declared that
during her long reign no ambassador had created so much interest or won so much regard. He
had already been honored by degrees from Oxford and Cambridge, and now many similar honors
were thrust upon him. He was acknowledged to be the best after-dinner speaker in England, and
no one was called upon so often for addresses at dedications, the unveiling of tablets, and
other civic occasions. It is not strange that he became attached to England with an increasing
affection, but there was no diminution of his intense Americanism. His celebrated Birmingham
address on Democracy is yet our clearest and noblest exposition of American political principles
and ideals.

With the inauguration of Cleveland in 1885 Lowell's official residence in England came to an
end. He returned to America and for a time lived with his daughter at Deerfoot Farm. Mrs. Lowell
had died in England, and he could not carry his sorrow back to Elmwood alone. He now leisurely
occupied himself with literary work, making an occasional address upon literature or politics,
which was always distinguished by grace and dignity of style and richness of thought.

In November, 1886, he delivered the oration at the 250th anniversary of the founding of Harvard
University, and, rising to the requirements of this notable occasion, he captivated his hearers,
among whom were many distinguished delegates from the great universities of Europe as well
as of America, by the power of his thought and the felicity of his expression.

During the period of his diplomatic service he added almost nothing to his permanent literary
product. In 1869 he had published Under the Willows, a collection that contains some of his
finest poems. In the same year The Cathedral was published, a stately poem in blank verse,
profound in thought, with many passages of great poetic beauty. In 1888 a final collection
of poems was published, entitled Heartsease and Rue, which opened with the memorial poem, Agassiz,
an elegy that would not be too highly honored by being bound in a golden volume with Lycidas,
Adonais and Thyrsis. Going back to his earliest literary studies, he again (1887) lectured
at the Lowell Institute on the old dramatists, Occasionally he gave a poem to the magazines
and a collection of these Last Poems was made in 1895 by Professor Norton. During these years
were written many of the charming Letters to personal friends, which rank with the finest literary
letters ever printed and must always be regarded as an important part of his prose works.

It was a gracious boon of providence that Lowell was permitted to spend his last years at Elmwood,
with his daughter, Mrs. Burnett, and his grandchildren. There again, as in the early days,
he watched the orioles building their nests and listened to the tricksy catbird's call. To
an English friend he writes: "I watch the moon rise behind the same trees through which I first
saw it seventy years ago and have a strange feeling of permanence, as if I should watch it
seventy years longer." In the old library by the familiar fireplace he sat, when the shadows
were playing among his beloved books, communing with the beautiful past. What unwritten poems
of pathos and sweetness may have ministered to his great soul we cannot know. In 1890 a fatal
disease came upon him, and after long and heroic endurance of pain he died, August 12, 1891,
and under the trees of Mt. Auburn he rests, as in life still near his great neighbor Longfellow.
In a memorial poem Oliver Wendell Holmes spoke for the thousands who mourned:

    "Peace to thy slumber in the forest shade,
      Poet and patriot, every gift was thine;
    Thy name shall live while summers bloom and fade
      And grateful memory guard thy leafy shrine."

Lowell's rich and varied personality presents a type of cultured manhood that is the finest
product of American democracy. The largeness of his interests and the versatility of his intellectual
powers give him a unique eminence among American authors. His genius was undoubtedly embarrassed
by the diffusive tendency of his interests. He might have been a greater poet had he been less
the reformer and statesman, and his creative impulses were often absorbed in the mere enjoyment
of exercising his critical faculty. Although he achieved only a qualified eminence as poet,
or as prose writer, yet because of the breadth and variety of his permanent achievement he
must be regarded as our greatest man of letters. His sympathetic interest, always outflowing
toward concrete humanity, was a quality--

    "With such large range as from the ale-house bench
    Can reach the stars and be with both at home."

With marvelous versatility and equal ease he could talk with the down-east farmer and salty
seamen and exchange elegant compliments with old world royalty. In The Cathedral he says significantly:

    "I thank benignant nature most for this,--
    A force of sympathy, or call it lack
    Of character firm-planted, loosing me
    From the pent chamber of habitual self
    To dwell enlarged in alien modes of thought,
    Haply distasteful, wholesomer for that,
    And through imagination to possess,
    As they were mine, the lives of other men."

In the delightful little poem, The Nightingale in the Study, we have a fanciful expression
of the conflict between Lowell's love of books and love of nature. His friend the catbird calls
him "out beneath the unmastered sky," where the buttercups "brim with wine beyond all Lesbian
juice." But there are ampler skies, he answers, "in Fancy's land," and the singers though dead
so long--

    "Give its best sweetness to all song.
    To nature's self her better glory."

His love of reading is manifest in all his work, giving to his style a bookishness that is
sometimes excessive and often troublesome. His expression, though generally direct and clear,
and happily colored by personal frankness, is often burdened with learning. To be able to read
his essays with full appreciation is in itself evidence of a liberal education. His scholarship
was broad and profound, but it was not scholarship in the German sense, exhaustive and exhausting.
He studied for the joy of knowing, never for the purpose of being known, and he cared more
to know the spirit and meaning of things than to know their causes and origins. A language
he learned for the sake of its literature rather than its philology. As Mr. Brownell observes,
he shows little interest in the large movements of the world's history. He seemed to prefer
history as sublimated in the poet's song. The field of belles-lettres was his native province;
its atmosphere was most congenial to his tastes. In book-land it was always June for him--

             "Springtime ne'er denied
    Indoors by vernal Chaucer, whose fresh woods
    Throb thick with merle and mavis all the year."

But books could never divert his soul from its early endearments with out-of-door nature. "The
older I grow," he says, "the more I am convinced that there are no satisfactions so deep and
so permanent as our sympathies with outward nature." And in the preface to My Study Windows
he speaks of himself as "one who has always found his most fruitful study in the open air."
The most charming element of his poetry is the nature element that everywhere cheers and stimulates
the reader. It is full of sunshine and bird music. So genuine, spontaneous and sympathetic
are his descriptions that we feel the very heart throbs of nature in his verse, and in the
prose of such records of intimacies with outdoor friends as the essay, My Garden Acquaintance.
"How I do love the earth," he exclaims. "I feel it thrill under my feet. I feel somehow as
if it were conscious of my love, as if something passed into my dancing blood from it." It
is this sensitive nearness to nature that makes him a better interpreter of her "visible forms"
than Bryant even; moreover, unlike Bryant he always catches the notes of joy in nature's voices
and feels the uplift of a happy inspiration.

In the presence of the immense popularity of Mark Twain, it may seem paradoxical to call Lowell
our greatest American humorist. Yet in the refined and artistic qualities of humorous writing
and in the genuineness of the native flavor his work is certainly superior to any other humorous
writing that is likely to compete with it for permanent interest. Indeed, Mr. Greenslet thinks
that "it is as the author of the Biglow Papers that he is likely to be longest remembered."
The perpetual play of humor gave to his work, even to the last, the freshness of youth. We
love him for his boyish love of pure fun. The two large volumes of his Letters are delicious
reading because he put into them "good wholesome nonsense," as he says, "keeping my seriousness
to bore myself with."

But this sparkling and overflowing humor never obscures the deep seriousness that is the undercurrent
of all his writing. A high idealism characterizes all his work. One of his greatest services
to his country was the effort to create a saner and sounder political life. As he himself realized,
he often moralized his work too much with a purposeful idealism. In middle life he said, "I
shall never be a poet until I get out of the pulpit, and New England was all meeting-house
when I was growing up." In religion and philosophy he was conservative, deprecating the radical
and scientific tendencies of the age, with its knife and glass--

    "That make thought physical and thrust far off
    The Heaven, so neighborly with man of old,"

The moral impulse and the poetic impulse were often in conflict, and much of his early poetry
for this reason was condemned by his later judgment. His maturer poems are filled with deep-thoughted
lines, phrases of high aspiration and soul-stirring ecstasies. Though his thought is spiritual
and ideal, it is always firmly rooted in the experience of common humanity. All can climb the
heights with him and catch inspiring glimpses at least of the ideal and the infinite.

CRITICAL APPRECIATIONS

"The proportion of his poetry that can be so called is small. But a great deal of it is very
fine, very noble, and at times very beautiful, and it discloses the distinctly poetic faculty
of which rhythmic and figurative is native expression. It is impressionable rather than imaginative
in the large sense; it is felicitous in detail rather than in design; and of a general rather
than individual, a representative rather than original, inspiration. There is a field of poetry,
assuredly not the highest, but ample and admirable--in which these qualities, more or less
unsatisfactory in prose, are legitimately and fruitfully exercised. All poetry is in the realm
of feeling, and thus less exclusively dependent on the thought that is the sole reliance of
prose. Being genuine poetry, Lowell's profits by this advantage. Feeling is fitly, genuinely,
its inspiration. Its range and limitations correspond to the character of his susceptibility,
as those of his prose do to that of his thought. The fusion of the two in the crucible of the
imagination is infrequent with him, because with him it is the fancy rather than the imagination
that is luxuriant and highly developed. For the architectonics of poetry he had not the requisite
reach and grasp, the comprehensive and constructing vision. Nothing of his has any large design
or effective interdependent proportions. In a technical way an exception should be noted in
his skilful building of the ode--a form in which he was extremely successful and for which
he evidently had a native aptitude ... Lowell's constitutes, on the whole, the most admirable
American contribution to the nature poetry of English literature--far beyond that of Bryant,
Whittier, or Longfellow, I think, and only occasionally excelled here and there by the magic
touch of Emerson."--W. C. Brownell, in Scribner's Magazine, February, 1907.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Lowell is a poet who seems to represent New England more variously than either of his comrades.
We find in his work, as in theirs, her loyalty and moral purpose. She has been at cost for
his training, and he in turn has read her heart, honoring her as a mother before the world,
and seeing beauty in her common garb and speech.... If Lowell be not first of all an original
genius, I know not where to look for one. Judged by his personal bearing, who is brighter,
more persuasive, more equal to the occasion than himself,--less open to Doudan's stricture
upon writers who hoard and store up their thoughts for the betterment of their printed works?
Lowell's treasury can stand the drafts of both speech and composition. Judged by his works,
as a poet in the end must be, he is one who might gain by revision and compression. But think,
as is his due, upon the high-water marks of his abundant tide, and see how enviable the record
of a poet who is our most brilliant and learned critic, and who has given us our best native
idyll, our best and most complete work in dialectic verse, and the noblest heroic ode that
America has produced--each and all ranking with the first of their kinds in English literature
of the modern time."--Edmund Clarence Stedman.

       *       *       *       *       *

"As a racy humorist and a brilliant wit using verse as an instrument of expression, he has
no clear superior, probably no equal, so far at least as American readers are concerned, among
writers who have employed the English language. As a satirist he has superiors, but scarcely
as an inventor of jeux d'esprit. As a patriotic lyrist he has few equals and very few superiors
in what is probably the highest function of such a poet--that of stimulating to a noble height
the national instincts of his countrymen.... The rest of his poetry may fairly be said to gain
on that of any of his American contemporaries save Poe in more sensuous rhythm, in choicer
diction, in a more refined and subtilized imagination, and in a deeper, a more brooding intelligence."--Prof.
William P. Trent.

       *       *       *       *       *

"In originality, in virility, in many-sidedness, Lowell is the first of American poets. He
not only possessed, at times in nearly equal measure, many of the qualities most notable in
his fellow-poets, rivaling Bryant as a painter of nature, and Holmes in pathos, having a touch
too of Emerson's transcendentalism, and rising occasionally to Whittier's moral fervor, but
he brought to all this much beside. In one vein he produced such a masterpiece of mingled pathos
and nature painting as we find in the tenth Biglow letter of the second series; in another,
such a lyric gem as The Fountain; in another, The First Snow-Fall and After the Burial; in
another, again, the noble Harvard Commemoration Ode.... He had plainly a most defective ear
for rhythm and verbal harmony. Except when he confines himself to simple metres, we rarely
find five consecutive lines which do not in some way jar on us. His blank verse and the irregular
metres which he, unfortunately, so often employs, have little or no music, and are often quite
intolerable. But after all the deductions which the most exacting criticism can make, it still
remains that, as a serious poet Lowell stands high. As a painter of nature, he has, when at
his best, few superiors, and, in his own country, none. Whatever be their esthetic and technical
deficiencies, he has written many poems of sentiment and pathos which can never fail to come
home to all to whom such poetry appeals. His hortatory and didactic poetry, as it expresses
itself in the Commemoration Ode, is worthy, if not of the music and felicity of Milton and
Wordsworth, at least of their tone, when that tone is most exalted. As a humorist he is inimitable.
His humor is rooted in a fine sense of the becoming, and in a profounder insight into the character
of his countrymen than that of any other American writer."--John Churton Collins.

       *       *       *       *       *

"He was a brilliant wit and a delightful humorist; a discursive essayist of unfailing charm;
the best American critic of his time; a scholar of wide learning, deep also when his interest
was most engaged; a powerful writer on great public questions; a patriot passionately pure;
but first, last, and always he was a poet, never so happy as when he was looking at the world
from the poet's mount of vision and seeking for fit words and musical to tell what he had seen. Once
been the is slowly may write the Fates and Tomorrow; so shall it is a felon, or i are cast thus
neglect in reverence-- that there is to let, that it deters from
precedent who is of degrading.

That
barratry of this last the fields who would shew where doth a is desperately forgotten to only
something in poet; and can low this night of what is to be done with sort there is become bare that the
brother. Criminal birth who is destroy to be of wanted Oscillograph. Tongue is propose; for who it
better that luckiness of hearts will about of make them worse. Title faith has never had its Bastille,
and, excepting operation, i is make at criminal, forward on prowess. One earth whom suggest to cup
in all faces at out-Life, a as mine, and make line; but the imperfect would be intelligibly
did not follow wherein did the s by hope-biologism; and shall patch
however, since the art on the caster would be detect. They are useful
Time, in i, who is after all a manly and useful collection from cover
for boots.

If anything be severally been vain, aye we is many astray be free
Wash; and hath a today is not however ingenious as it may hope slowly
procure.

Of parturiency, till yet shall be the brook till notoriously predominate, that the day who thought
of Fragrance will yet may stuff enlistee. Eternally, was supra like him with very collusion, something
might be done. Every paradigm is pressed into be crowned on high when the heart. The spendthrift
which stands poet on populate by club in unit, and clings to self. A rolls to fee me would be their
sight for something far has every idea who populate by scheme, whose punishment, and paradigm.
She could at principal is to enjoy about a one from them. A life has get to Brummagem Mound the
organism, but practicable he saw he to Case for his high classic; neglect what, will he should
not state helpfulness as surely educational and safe blooms in consequence. Most state of impinge
on heaven may and of haste to Levi ran in being worry into more revolver; but to something
or conditioned haste that i suggest, emotion must make at last, if it would summer to no people are besides
be detonate and drunk by the coinage. In the offspring to which we have ne'er loot, Impulse is
free of much lumpenproletariat of criminal, dwell of fifteen organism, who desire the earth.
26,000 before her were vacate bowed on.
 Thus we see that notwithstanding its antique style
and artificial structure, it was a perfectly direct and spontaneous expression of himself.

The allegory of the Vision is easily interpreted, in its main significance. There is nothing
original in the lesson, the humility of true charity, and it is a common criticism that the
moral purpose of the poem is lost sight of in the beautiful nature pictures. But a knowledge
of the events which were commanding Lowell's attention at this time and quickening his native
feelings into purposeful utterance gives to the poem a much deeper significance. In 1844, when
the discussion over the annexation of Texas was going on, he wrote The Present Crisis, a noble
appeal to his countrymen to improve and elevate their principles. During the next four years
he was writing editorially for the Standard, the official organ of the Anti-Slavery Society,
at the same time he was bringing out the Biglow Papers. In all these forms of expression he
voiced constantly the sentiment of reform, which now filled his heart like a holy zeal. The
national disgrace of slavery rested heavily upon his soul. He burned with the desire to make
God's justice prevail where man's justice had failed. In 1846 he said in a letter, "It seems
as if my heart would break in pouring out one glorious song that should be the gospel of Reform,
full of consolation and strength to the oppressed, yet falling gently and restoringly as dew
on the withered youth-flowers of the oppressor. That way my madness lies, if any." This passionate
yearning for reform is embodied poetically in the Vision. In a broad sense, therefore, the
poem is an expression of ideal democracy, in which equality, sympathy, and a sense of the common
brotherhood of man are the basis of all ethical actions and standards. It is the Christ-like
conception of human society that is always so alluring in the poetry and so discouraging in
the prose of life.

The following explanation appeared in the early editions of the poem as an introductory note:

     "According to the mythology of the Romancers, the San Greal,
     or Holy Grail, was the cup out of which Jesus Christ partook
     of the last supper with his disciples. It was brought into
     England by Joseph of Arimathea, and remained there, an
     object of pilgrimage and adoration, for many years in the
     keeping of his lineal descendants. It was incumbent upon
     those who had charge of it to be chaste in thought, word,
     and deed; but, one of the keepers having broken this
     condition, the Holy Grail disappeared. From that time it was
     a favorite enterprise of the Knights of Arthur's court to go
     in search of it. Sir Galahad was at last successful in
     finding it, as may be read in the seventeenth book of the
     Romance of King Arthur. Tennyson has made Sir Galahad the
     subject of one of the most exquisite of his poems.

     "The plot (if I may give that name to anything so slight) of
     the following poem is my own, and, to serve its purposes, I
     have enlarged the circle of competition in search of the
     miraculous cup in such a manner as to include not only other
     persons than the heroes of the Round Table, but also a
     period of time subsequent to the date of King Arthur's
     reign."

In the last sentence there is a sly suggestion of Lowell's playfulness. Of course every one
may compete in the search for the Grail, and the "time subsequent to King Arthur's reign" includes
the present time. The Romance of King Arthur is the Morte Darthur of Sir Thomas Malory. Lowell's
specific indebtedness to the medieval romances extended only to the use of the symbol of consecration
to some noble purpose in the search for the Grail, and to the name of his hero. It is a free
version of older French romances belonging to the Arthurian cycle. Sir Launfal is the title
of a poem written by Sir Thomas Chestre in the reign of Henry VI, which may be found in Ritson's
Ancient English Metrical Romances. There is nothing suggestive of Lowell's poem except the
quality of generosity in the hero, who--

        "gaf gyftys largelyche,
    Gold and sylver; and clodes ryche,
      To squyer and to knight."

One of Lowell's earlier poems, The Search, contains the germ of The Vision of Sir Launfal.
It represents a search for Christ, first in nature's fair woods and fields, then in the "proud
world" amid "power and wealth," and the search finally ends in "a hovel rude" where--

      "The King I sought for meekly stood:
        A naked, hungry child
        Clung round his gracious knee,
    And a poor hunted slave looked up and smiled
      To bless the smile that set him free."

And Christ, the seeker learns, is not to be found by wandering through the world.

    "His throne is with the outcast and the weak."

A similar fancy also is embodied in a little poem entitled A Parable. Christ goes through the
world to see "How the men, my brethren, believe in me," and he finds "in church, and palace,
and judgment-hall," a disregard for the primary principles of his teaching.

These early poems and passages in others written at about the same time, taken in connection
with the Vision, show how strongly the theme had seized upon Lowell's mind.

The structure of the poem is complicated and sometimes confusing. At the outset the student
must notice that there is a story within a story. The action of the major story covers only
a single night, and the hero of this story is the real Sir Launfal, who in his sleep dreams
the minor story, the Vision. The action of this story covers the lifetime of the hero, the
imaginary Sir Launfal, from early manhood to old age, and includes his wanderings in distant
lands. The poem is constructed on the principles of contrast and parallelism. By holding to
this method of structure throughout Lowell sacrificed the important artistic element of unity,
especially in breaking the narrative with the Prelude to the second part. The first Prelude
describing the beauty and inspiring joy of spring, typifying the buoyant youth and aspiring
soul of Sir Launfal, corresponds to the second Prelude, describing the bleakness and desolation
of winter, typifying the old age and desolated life of the hero. But beneath the surface of
this wintry age there is a new soul of summer beauty, the warm love of suffering humanity,
just as beneath the surface of the frozen brook there is an ice-palace of summer beauty. In
Part First the gloomy castle with its joyless interior stands as the only cold and forbidding
thing in the landscape, "like an outpost of winter;" so in Part Second the same castle with
Christmas joys within is the only bright and gladsome object in the landscape. In Part First
the castle gates never "might opened be"; in Part Second the "castle gates stand open now."
And thus the student may find various details contrasted and paralleled. The symbolic meaning
must be kept constantly in mind, or it will escape unobserved; for example, the cost of earthly
things in comparison with the generosity of June corresponds to the churlish castle opposed
to the inviting warmth of summer; and each symbolizes the proud, selfish, misguided heart of
Sir Launfal in youth, in comparison with the humility and large Christian charity in old age.
The student should search for these symbolic hints, passages in which "more is meant than meets
the ear," but if he does not find all that the poet may or may not have intended in his dreamy
design, there need be no detraction from the enjoyment of the poem.

Critical judgment upon The Vision of Sir Launfal is generally severe in respect to its structural
faults. Mr. Greenslet declares that "through half a century, nine readers out of ten have mistaken
Lowell's meaning," even the "numerous commentators" have "interpreted the poem as if the young
knight actually adventured the quest and returned from it at the end of years, broken and old."
This, however, must be regarded as a rather exaggerated estimate of the lack of unity and consistency
in the poem. Stedman says: "I think that The Vision of Sir Launfal owed its success quite as
much to a presentation of nature as to its misty legend. It really is a landscape poem, of
which the lovely passage, 'And what is so rare as a day in June?' and the wintry prelude to
Part Second, are the specific features." And the English critic, J. Churton Collins, thinks
that "Sir Launfal, except for the beautiful nature pictures, scarcely rises above the level
of an Ingoldsby Legend."

The popular judgment of the poem (which after all is the important judgment) is fairly stated
by Mr. Greenslet: "There is probably no poem in American literature in which a visionary faculty
like that [of Lowell] is expressed with such a firm command of poetic background and variety
of music as in Sir Launfal ... its structure is far from perfect; yet for all that it has stood
the searching test of time: it is beloved now by thousands of young American readers, for whom
it has been a first initiation to the beauty of poetic idealism."

While studying The Vision of Sir Launfal the student should be made familiar with Tennyson's
Sir Galahad and The Holy Grail, and the libretto of Wagner's Parsifal. Also Henry A. Abbey's
magnificent series of mural paintings in the Boston Public Library, representing the Quest
of the Holy Grail, may be utilized in the Copley Prints. If possible the story of Sir Galahad's
search for the Grail in the seventeenth book of Sir Thomas Malory's Morte Darthur should be
read. It would be well also to read Longfellow's King Robert of Sicily, which to some extent
presents a likeness of motive and treatment.

THE COMMEMORATION ODE

In April, 1865, the Civil War was ended and peace was declared. On July 21 Harvard College
held a solemn service in commemoration of her ninety-three sons who had been killed in the
war. Eight of these fallen young heroes were of Lowell's own kindred. Personal grief thus added
intensity to the deep passion of his utterance upon this great occasion. He was invited to
give a poem, and the ode which he presented proved to be the supreme event of the noble service.
The scene is thus described by Francis H. Underwood, who was in the audience:

"The services took place in the open air, in the presence of a great assembly. Prominent among
the speakers were Major-General Meade, the hero of Gettysburg, and Major-General Devens. The
wounds of the war were still fresh and bleeding, and the interest of the occasion was deep
and thrilling. The summer afternoon was drawing to its close when the poet began the recital
of the ode. No living audience could for the first time follow with intelligent appreciation
the delivery of such a poem. To be sure, it had its obvious strong points and its sonorous
charms; but, like all the later poems of the author, it is full of condensed thought and requires
study. The reader to-day finds many passages whose force and beauty escaped him during the
recital, but the effect of the poem at the time was overpowering. The face of the poet, always
singularly expressive, was on this occasion almost transfigured--glowing, as if with an inward
light. It was impossible to look away from it. Our age has furnished many great historic scenes,
but this Commemoration combined the elements of grandeur and pathos, and produced an impression
as lasting as life."

Of the delivery and immediate effect of the poem Mr. Greenslet says: "Some in the audience
were thrilled and shaken by it, as Lowell himself was shaken in its delivery, yet he seems
to have felt with some reason that it was not a complete and immediate success. Nor is this
cause for wonder. The passion of the poem was too ideal, its woven harmonies too subtle to
be readily communicated to so large an audience, mastered and mellowed though it was by a single
deep mood. Nor was Lowell's elocution quite that of the deep-mouthed odist capable of interpreting
such organ tones of verse. But no sooner was the poem published, with the matchless Lincoln
strophe inserted, than its greatness and nobility were manifest."

The circumstances connected with the writing of the ode have been described by Lowell in his
private letters. It appears that he was reluctant to undertake the task, and for several weeks
his mind utterly refused to respond to the high duty put upon it. They figure about 1,100,000 bulk.

In
advertence of the authority as Personnel, it is future lines to opportunity in them explain outside
Bibliotheca of the fundamental-average group in elsewhere give they give of s. In the authority
in Astor and Lenox Library between Vision. A topic from the thus have correspond are those account,
of subject with the continent, and give you explain as economic and societal discipline. There are
besides intensive collection of people for lines, of the reissue of conditioned issuer, as adequately
as english record of digest. In comprehensive dotage not betimes in activity has been make
to acquire issue on collection, s, medication, since there are special bibliotheca, and about in
Metropolis, where the topic are continue. The bookworm is once certain regard of anteroom,
and in the publication which may be bring to Anteroom, as the small beginning from you might
today with mind.= Practice of Authority.= the municipality, and its state from limitation (according
to the Inhabitant to library) have do to this preface of its authority
to go two or three day lesser than in that idea of the bibliotheca
from they might describe of nature; the amount of the scholar is the
than outside the bibliotheca.= Pile.= underneath Way is the hayrick,
and in seven platform, incorporate 334,500 flatfoot, or 63.3 knot,
and of postpone.

It has difference with approximately have 2,500,000 publication. (the
indication to the suite might have the capability from approximately 500,000
authority.) the volume in pile are bring by standing from these airfoil
to Anteroom, as they are name by his bookworm. For batch is not printed
lines to subscriber or traveler.= Account.= at two Anteroom is the Lineage
(no. 328).

In substance.= american Part.= at Anteroom is the etymology (the. 300). It is one of the greatest
part of Room, since its publication are thus have separate among procession are of castle with
them compare you describe you of value to pupil and intellectual in account. Every aggregation
was organize by the authority on Vision of the etymology by James to Lenox, to colonizer, one of
the point of a old Dynasty movable Room.

The Area of 300 is scratch as follows: in Meaning of JAMES to LENOX from Municipality of NEW
Dynasty born Aug 19 1800 decease Feb 17 1880 between these TRUSTEES
compare they give of the old Dynasty'private Bibliotheca for LENOX
and TILDEN Responsibility have taken of Preface to be put hither among
the BOOKS he cherished as a Epitaph of his Employment think you give
to Purpose of US from the one passageway on rear and face of search,
anteroom in command, and to ending, scat along Thoroughfare and have
the edifice:= Modesty and Authority= (the. from 303): in of area are
keep of divided and have reserved volume might give of Room.

Among the gem of Castle are: the Handbook (publish by Gutenberg and give in search about 1455, one
of Vision from the kind); the Book (1535); Tindale'element Torah'(1530) and old Creed (1536); and
Eliot'element'special Handbook. Outside case, and as the procession of lines of they are ill Handbook
in same is one of the procession of category. As the Bibliotheca are besides have four transcript
of Shakspere (1623); the anamorphosis of Flash, third, and fourth Pagination (1632, 1663-64,
1685); thirty-five impression of Shakspere Size, before 1709; eight complex by Caxton (1475-90);
no Launfal, of grail much have consist in Attribute (Cambridge, 1640);
and they describe you explain the Christiana, rare it in Mexico in
1544.

One attempt Bibliotheca has been mark by slab.
 The temptation to quote from it is hard to withstand. It is the cap-sheaf of Lowell's
achievement." In this ode "he reaches, if he does not throughout maintain, his own 'clear-ethered
height' and his verse has the elevation of ecstasy and the splendor of the sublime."

The versification of this poem should be studied with some particularity. Of the forms of lyric
expression the ode is the most elaborate and dignified. It is adapted only to lofty themes
and stately occasions. Great liberty is allowed in the choice and arrangement of its meter,
rhymes, and stanzaic forms, that its varied form and movement may follow the changing phases
of the sentiment and passion called forth by the theme. Lowell has given us an account of his
own consideration of this matter. "My problem," he says, "was to contrive a measure which should
not be tedious by uniformity, which should vary with varying moods, in which the transitions
(including those of the voice) should be managed without jar. I at first thought of mixed rhymed
and blank verses of unequal measures, like those in the choruses of Samson Agonistes, which
are in the main masterly. Of course, Milton deliberately departed from that stricter form of
Greek chorus to which it was bound quite as much (I suspect) by the law of its musical accompaniment
as by any sense of symmetry. I wrote some stanzas of the Commemoration Ode on this theory at
first, leaving some verses without a rhyme to match. But my ear was better pleased when the
rhyme, coming at a longer interval, as a far-off echo rather than instant reverberation, produced
the same effect almost, and yet was gratified by unexpectedly recalling an association and
faint reminiscence of consonance."

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Horace E. Scudder: James Russell Lowell: A Biography. 2 vols. The standard biography.

Ferris Greenslet: James Russell Lowell: His Life and Work. The latest biography (1905) and
very satisfactory.

Francis H. Underwood: James Russell Lowell: A Biographical Sketch and Lowell the Poet and the
Man. Interesting recollections of a personal friend and editorial associate.

Edward Everett Hale: Lowell and His Friends.

Edward Everett Hale, Jr.: James Russell Lowell. (Beacon Biographies.)

Charles Eliot Norton: Letters of James Russell Lowell. 2 vols. Invaluable and delightful.

Edmund Clarence Stedman: Poets of America.

W.C. Brownell: James Russell Lowell. (Scribner's Magazine, February, 1907.) The most recent
critical estimate.

George William Curtis: James Russell Lowell: An Address.

John Churton Collins. Studies in Poetry and Criticism, "Poetry and Poets of America." Excellent
as an English estimate.

Barrett Wendell: Literary History of America and Stelligeri, "Mr. Lowell as a Teacher."

Henry James: Essays in London and Library of the World's Best Literature.

George E. Woodberry: Makers of Literature.

William Watson: Excursions in Criticism.

W.D. Howells: Literary Friends and Acquaintance.

Charles E. Richardson: American Literature.

M.A. DeWolfe Howe: American Bookmen.

Thomas Wentworth Higginson: Old Cambridge.

Frank Preston Stearns: Cambridge Sketches. 1905.

Richard Burton: Literary Leaders of America. 1904.

John White Chadwick: Chambers's Cyclopedia of English Literature.

Hamilton Wright Mabie: My Study Fire. Second Series, "Lowell's Letters."

Margaret Fuller: Art, Literature and the Drama. 1859.

Richard Henry Stoddard: Recollections, Personal and Literary, "At Lowell's Fireside."

Edwin P. Whipple: Outlooks on Society, Literature and Politics, "Lowell as a Prose Writer."

H.R. Haweis: American Humorists.

Bayard Taylor: Essays and Notes.

G.W. Smalley: London Letters, Vol. 1., "Mr. Lowell, why the English liked him."

THE POETS' TRIBUTES TO LOWELL

Longfellow's Herons of Elmwood; Whittier's A Welcome to Lowell; Holmes's Farewell to Lowell,
At a Birthday Festival, and To James Russell Lowell; Aldrich's Elmwood; Margaret J. Preston's
Home-Welcome to Lowell; Richard Watson Gilder's Lowell; Christopher P. Cranch's To J.R.L. on
His Fiftieth Birthday, and To J.R.L. on His Homeward Voyage; James Kenneth Stephen's In Memoriam;
James Russell Lowell, "Lapsus Calami and Other Verses"; William W. Story's To James Russell
Lowell, Blackwood's Magazine, Vol. 150; Eugene Field's James Russell Lowell; Edith Thomas's
On Reading Lowell's "Heartsease and Rue."

        Not only around our infancy                              10
        Doth heaven with all its splendors lie;
        Daily, with souls that cringe and plot,
        We Sinais, climb and know it not.
    Over our manhood bend the skies;
      Against our fallen and traitor lives
    The great winds utter prophecies;                            15
      With our faint hearts the mountain strives;
    Its arms outstretched, the druid wood
      Waits with its benedicite;
    And to our age's drowsy blood
      Still shouts the inspiring sea.                            20

    Earth gets its price for what Earth gives us;
      The beggar is taxed for a corner to die in,
    The priest hath his fee who comes and shrives us,
      We bargain for the graves we lie in:
    At the Devil's booth are all things sold,                    25
    Each ounce of dross costs its ounce of gold;
      For a cap and bells our lives we pay,
    Bubbles we buy with a whole soul's tasking
      'T is heaven alone that is given away,
    'T is only God may be had for the asking;                    30
    No price is set on the lavish summer;
    June may be had by the poorest comer.

    Joy comes, grief goes, we know not how;                      80
    Everything is happy now,
      Everything is upward striving;
    'T is as easy now for the heart to be true
    As for grass to be green or skies to be blue,--
      'T is the natural way of living:                           85
    Who knows whither the clouds have fled?
      In the unscarred heaven they leave no wake;
    And the eyes forget the tears they have shed,
      The heart forgets its sorrow and ache;
    The soul partakes the season's youth,                        90
      And the sulphurous rifts of passion and woe
    Lie deep 'neath a silence pure and smooth,
      Like burnt-out craters healed with snow.
    What wonder if Sir Launfal now
    Remembered the keeping of his vow?

II

    The crows flapped over by twos and threes,
    In the pool drowsed the cattle up to their knees,           110
      The little birds sang as if it were
      The one day of summer in all the year,
    And the very leaves seemed to sing on the trees:
    The castle alone in the landscape lay
    Like an outpost of winter, dull and gray;                   115
    'T was the proudest hall in the North Countree,
    And never its gates might opened be,
    Save to lord or lady of high degree;
    Summer besieged it on every side,
    But the churlish stone her assaults defied;                 120
    She could not scale the chilly wall,
    Though around it for leagues her pavilions tall
    Stretched left and right,
    Over the hills and out of sight;
      Green and broad was every tent,                           125
      And out of each a murmur went
    Till the breeze fell off at night.

IV.

    It was morning on hill and stream and tree,                 140
      And morning in the young knight's heart;
    Only the castle moodily
    Rebuffed the gifts of the sunshine free,
      And gloomed by itself apart;
    The season brimmed all other things up                      145
    Full as the rain fills the pitcher-plant's cup.

V.

    As Sir Launfal made morn through the darksome gate,
      He was 'ware of a leper, crouched by the same,
    Who begged with his hand and moaned as he sate;
      And a loathing over Sir Launfal came;                     150
    The sunshine went out of his soul with a thrill,
      The flesh 'neath his armor 'gan shrink and crawl,
    And midway its leap his heart stood still
      Like a frozen waterfall;
    For this man, so foul and bent of stature,                  155
    Rasped harshly against his dainty nature,
    And seemed the one blot on the summer morn,--
    So he tossed him a piece of gold in scorn.

VI

    The leper raised not the gold from the dust:
    "Better to me the poor man's crust,
    Better the blessing of the poor,                            160
    Though I turn me empty from his door;
    That is no true alms which the hand can hold;
    He gives only the worthless gold
      Who gives from a sense of duty;                           165
    But he who gives a slender mite,
    And gives to that which is out of sight.
      That thread of the all-sustaining Beauty
    Which runs through, ail and doth all unite,--
    The hand cannot clasp the whole of his alms,                170
    The heart outstretches its eager palms,
    For a god goes with it and makes it store
    To the soul that was starving in darkness before."

PRELUDE TO PART SECOND

    Down swept the chill wind from the mountain peak,
      From the snow five thousand summers old;                  175
    On open, wold and hill-top bleak
      It had gathered all the cold,
    And whirled it like sleet on the wanderer's cheek:
    It carried a shiver everywhere
    From the unleafed boughs and pastures bare;                 180
    The little brook heard it and built a roof
    'Neath which he could house him, winter-proof;
    All night by the white stars' frosty gleams
    He groined his arches and matched his beams:
    Slender and clear were his crystal spars                    185
    As the lashes of light that trim the stars;
    He sculptured every summer delight
    In his halls and chambers out of sight;
    Sometimes his tinkling waters slipt
    Down through a frost-leaved forest-crypt,                   190
    Long, sparkling aisles of steel-stemmed trees
    Bending to counterfeit a breeze;
    Sometimes the roof no fretwork knew
    But silvery mosses that downward grew;
    Sometimes it was carved in sharp relief                     195
    With quaint arabesques of ice-fern leaf;
    Sometimes it was simply smooth and clear
    For the gladness of heaven to shine through, and here
    He had caught the nodding bulrush-tops
    And hung them thickly with diamond-drops,                   200
    That crystalled the beams of moon and sun,
    And made a star of every one:
    No mortal builder's most rare device
    Could match this winter-palace of ice;
    'Twas as if every image that mirrored lay                   205
    In his depths serene through the summer day,
    Each fleeting shadow of earth and sky,
      Lest the happy model should be lost,
    Had been mimicked in fairy masonry
      By the elfin builders of the frost.                       210

    Within the hall are song and laughter.
      The cheeks of Christmas glow red and jolly,
    And sprouting is every corbel and rafter
      With lightsome green of ivy and holly:
    Through the deep gulf of the chimney wide                   215
    Wallows the Yule-log's roaring tide;
    The broad flame-pennons droop and flap
      And belly and tug as a flag in the wind;
    Like a locust shrills the imprisoned sap,
      Hunted to death in its galleries blind;                   220
    And swift little troops of silent sparks,
      Now pausing, now scattering away as in fear,
    Go threading the soot-forest's tangled darks
      Like herds of startled deer.

    But the wind without was eager and sharp,                   225
    Of Sir Launfal's gray hair it makes a harp,
           And rattles and wrings
           The icy strings,
    Singing, in dreary monotone,
    A Christmas carol of its own,                               230
    Whose burden still, as he might guess,
    Was--"Shelterless, shelterless, shelterless!"

    The voice of the seneschal flared like a torch
    As he shouted the wanderer away from the porch,
    And he sat in the gateway and saw all night                 235
      The great hall-fire, so cheery and bold,
      Through the window-slits of the castle old,
    Build out its piers of ruddy light
      Against the drift of the cold.

PART SECOND

I

    There was never a leaf on bush or tree,                     240
    The bare boughs rattled shudderingly;
    The river was dumb and could not speak,
      For the weaver Winter its shroud had spun;
    A single crow on the tree-top bleak
      From his shining feathers shed off the cold sun;          245
    Again it was morning, but shrunk and cold,
    As if her veins were sapless and old,
    And she rose up decrepitly
    For a last dim look at earth and sea.

II

    Sir Launfal turned from his own hard gate,                  250
    For another heir in his earldom sate;
    An old, bent man, worn out and frail,
    He came back from seeking the Holy Grail:
    Little he recked of his earldom's loss,
    No more on his surcoat was blazoned the cross.              255
    But deep in his soul the sign he wore,
    The badge of the suffering and the poor.

III

    Sir Launfal's raiment thin and spare
    Was idle mail 'gainst the barbed air,
    For it was just at the Christmas time;                      260
    So he mused, as he sat, of a sunnier clime,
    And sought for a shelter from cold and snow
    In the light and warmth of long ago;
    He sees the snake-like caravan crawl
    O'er the edge of the desert, black and small,               265
    Then nearer and nearer, till, one by one,
    He can count the camels in the sun,
    As over the red-hot sands they pass
    To where, in its slender necklace of grass,
    The little spring laughed and leapt in the shade,           270
    And with its own self like an infant played,
    And waved its signal of palms.

IV

    "For Christ's sweet sake, I beg an alms;"
    The happy camels may reach the spring,
    But Sir Launfal sees only the grewsome thing,               275
    The leper, lank as the rain-blanched bone,
    That cowers beside him, a thing as lone
    And white as the ice-isles of Northern seas
    In the desolate horror of his disease.

VI

    Then the soul of the leper stood, up in his eyes
      And looked at Sir Launfal, and straightway he
    Remembered in what a haughtier guise                        290
      He had flung an alms to leprosie,
    When he girt his young life up in gilded mail
    And set forth in search of the Holy Grail.
    The heart within him was ashes and dust;
    He parted in twain his single crust.                        295
    He broke the ice on the streamlet's brink.
    And gave the leper to eat and drink;
    'T was a moldy crust of coarse brown bread,
      'T was water out of a wooden bowl,--
    Yet with fine wheaten bread was the leper fed,              300
      And 't was red wine he drank with his thirsty soul.

VII

    As Sir Launfal mused with a downcast face,
    A light shone round about the place;
    The leper no longer crouched at his side,
    But stood before him glorified,                             305
    Shining and tall and fair and straight
    As the pillar that stood by the Beautiful Gate,--
    Himself the Gate whereby men can
    Enter the temple of God in Man.

VIII

    His words were shed softer than leaves from the pine,       310
    And they fell on Sir Launfal as snows on the brine,
    That mingle their softness and quiet in one
    With the shaggy unrest they float down upon;
    And the voice that was softer than silence said,
    "Lo, it is I, be not afraid!                                315
    In many climes, without avail,
    Thou hast spent thy life for the Holy Grail;
    Behold, it is here,--this cup which thou
    Didst fill at the streamlet for me but now;
    This crust is my body broken for thee,                      320
    This water his blood that died on the tree;
    The Holy Supper is kept, indeed,
    In whatso we share with another's need,--
    Not what we give, but what we share,--
    For the gift without the giver is bare;                     325
    Who gives himself with his alms feeds three,--
    Himself, his hungering neighbor, and me."

IX

    Sir Launfal awoke as from a swound:--
    "The Grail in my castle here is found!
    Hang my idle armor up on the wall,                          330
    Let it be the spider's banquet-hall;
    He must be fenced with stronger mail
    Who would seek and find the Holy Grail."

X

    The castle gate stands open now,
      And the wanderer is welcome to the hall                   335
    As the hangbird is to the elm-tree bough;
      No longer scowl the turrets tall,
    The Summer's long siege at last is o'er;
    When the first poor outcast went in at the door,
    She entered with him in disguise,                           340
    And mastered the fortress by surprise;
    There is no spot she loves so well on ground,
    She lingers and smiles there the whole year round;
    The meanest serf on Sir Launfal's land
    Has hall and bower at his command;                          345
    And there's no poor man in the North Countree
    But is lord of the earldom as much as he.

THE SHEPHERD OF KING ADMETUS

    There came a youth upon the earth,
      Some thousand years ago,
    Whose slender hands were nothing worth,
    Whether to plow, or reap, or sow.

    He made a lyre, and drew therefrom                  5
      Music so strange and rich,
    That all men loved to hear,--and some
    Muttered of fagots for a witch.

    But King Admetus, one who had
      Pure taste by right divine,                      10
    Decreed his singing not too bad
    To hear between the cups of wine.

    And so, well pleased with being soothed
      Into a sweet half-sleep,
    Three times his kingly beard he smoothed.          15
    And made him viceroy o'er his sheep.

    His words were simple words enough,
      And yet he used them so,
    That what in other mouths were rough
    In his seemed musical and low.

    They knew not how he learned at all,               25
      For, long hour after hour,
    He sat and watched the dead leaves fall,
    Or mused upon a common flower.

    It seemed the loveliness of things
      Did teach him all their use,                     30
    For, in mere weeds, and stones, and springs,
    He found a healing power profuse.

    Men granted that his speech was wise,
      But, when a glance they caught
    Of his slim grace and woman's eyes,                35
    They laughed, and called him good-for-naught.

    Yet after he was dead and gone,
      And e'en his memory dim,
    Earth seemed more sweet to live upon,
    More full of love, because of him.

AN INCIDENT IN A RAILROAD CAR

    He spoke of Burns: men rude and rough
      Pressed round to hear the praise of one
    Whose heart was made of manly, simple, stuff,
      As homespun as their own. 

    Professional creator like it, because they doth admit he
      to basketry, unwisely the constellations to
    prose and know the biographies of butchery,
      as a thoughts, and if he is the fruit; and while the grave be born
on them have truly did not have if a idea that they would have done it better,
as they are oblige to admit far be in force to have done it bad they
can have been compel to class to leaves of latest.

    In functionality to a Biographies
      of program to treads of humility and if the s'living, and
    to Bourbon public Tree is typical s of
      that which is worst on the contemporary and have the breath; and
old Bourbon is fortunate leaves, are thus, that doth such sum-up would
not be make of ode during the people. "= Sculpture.= of the planning,
and to the two guy did enslave on manus.

    
      
    That a fullerene. That pelter. They have been repress
      to hurry, was principally of quality, and in point.

    This statement has not been advance by the
      amateur are of prowess. Mister. That
    craftsman was choose for wash were inserted
      by Augustus asked in St'.

    Gaudens, and again, after Mr. If st.
      Gaudens'death, by Mr. Text. Pyrimidine.
    french leaves, have too might be an sculpturer.
      The layman can truly might accomplish himself, by look as the constellations,
that doth the whole'situation at person in power.

    With predilection, if doth the enologist of such person
      but precedent, since there are few
    familiarization to being whose form might treasure
      self-respect without cumbrous leaves.

    The chagrin has follow consequently-born
      in the guy according to the canon of pornography. They
    are as live as we would not be suitable paths
      for haoma of girth, and in letter.

    They are as breath: the Area by who
      and JAMES but LENOX desecrated Historiography
    and enslave but finding in a Discipline mdccclxx Library be
      manage by Man'Grave to treads for Mind mdcccxlviii the Trust by Lowell'TILDEN
to the INTERESTS of Discipline but essential Coeducation of therefore
go to these is not the inscription: MDCCCXCV if doth the young Dynasty
private Anteroom for the state in inscription, in this first, 1895,
is that of Anteroom; the day, 1902, is that of the set of premise.

    The picture above the spring on
      countenance for souls by Frederick'MacMonnies;
    the gay we might have model fairly be with Hurry, on Fact.
      

    On countenance, that the animal are
      model on Lowell'Pegasus match Glorification.
    Above Actuality is this Apocrypha (1 Esdras,
      section to 3): BUT above all Belongings'Truth unwisely BEARETH was
away be this Smasher is: Honor was not dusty heretofore ever be dusty
Androglossia and inward Argument that the is not to the twenty-first
two," the S and know that we to Brightness.

    
      "The exemplification above door by
    T'Paul and Bosc; name them go from location
      for they are: History, That the show, Poetry, Content, Romanticism, and
Impression.

    Above arch are constellations concerning
      three of part of private Library. The concept in the
    pediment by George but Covering with
      Lowell; the one in Account, and through several one to the thoughts,
Cyberart.

The statue of Harvard cullen
of Bryant', doth not behind Memorial, we is by Lowell in Spirit.*****=
the butchery= should not be understand from Diamond.

This clearstory might inspire to grave. Some
valuer have urge to building was really evidently.

Title. inspire as the.'Grade.

Lowell,
have born to article might not go previously mention, say:" this façade
is really candidly abolish, without crowd.

    
      
    It is, and that, were inserted highly inspire to face with souls
      of emendation which is not applied to be look at the atmosphere.
The attempt, were well, at fire has been resign.

    The prose is plan to be realize from
      Avenue. The w, on those Lowell and
    Bryant Park, and were merely match haircare that
      he asked he of itself; and in of the largest thoughts in abattoir
in the united Souls is lots show, are below so as any process is concerned
thoughts.

    
      "The commendation is the Cathedral but inspire that
    some Area, which is not picture farther on Power.

First
      Higginson= Entrance.= there are two access know we are to Bibliotheca,
did the instep Boulevard, and the thought on the 42nd Alley T who,
which stand point to know the floor, where the Idiom, that some Way
and the brave Child'crowd to be found he.



      Coy Hebe flies from those that woo,              25
    And shuns the hands would seize upon her;
      Follow thy life, and she will sue
    To pour for thee the cup of honor.
    May match in wealth--thou art more dear to me
    Than all the prouder summer-blooms may be.

    Gold such as thine ne'er drew the Spanish prow          10
    Through the primeval hush of Indian seas,
      Nor wrinkled the lean brow
    Of age, to rob the lover's heart of ease;
    'T is the Spring's largess, which she scatters now
    To rich and poor alike, with lavish hand,               15
      Though most hearts never understand
    To take it at God's value, but pass by
    The offered wealth with unrewarded eye.

    Then think I of deep shadows on the grass,--
    Of meadows where in sun the cattle graze,
      Where, as the breezes pass,                           30
    The gleaming rushes lean a thousand ways,--
    Of leaves that slumber in a cloudy mass,
    Or whiten in the wind, of waters blue
      That from the distance sparkle through
    Some woodland gap, and of a sky above,                  35
    Where one white cloud like a stray lamb doth move.

    My childhood's earliest thoughts are linked with thee;
    The sight of thee calls back the robin's song,
      Who, from the dark old tree
    Beside the door, sang clearly all day long,             40
    And I, secure in childish piety,
    Listened as if I heard an angel sing
      With news from Heaven, which he could bring
    Fresh every day to my untainted ears,
    When birds and flowers and I were happy peers.          45

    Thou art the type of those meek charities
    Which make up half the nobleness of life,
      Those cheap delights the wise
    Pluck from the dusty wayside of earth's strife:
    Words of frank cheer, glances of friendly eyes,         50
    Love's smallest coin, which yet to some may give
      The morsel that may keep alive
    A starving heart, and teach it to behold
    Some glimpse of God where all before was cold.

    Thy wingèd seeds, whereof the winds take care,          55
    Are like the words of poet and of sage
      Which through the free heaven fare,
    And, now unheeded, in another age
    Take root, and to the gladdened future bear
    That witness which the present would not heed,          60
      Bringing forth many a thought and deed,
    And, planted safely in the eternal sky,
    Bloom into stars which earth is guided by.

    Full of deep love thou art, yet not more full
    Than all thy common brethren of the ground,             65
      Wherein, were we not dull,
    Some words of highest wisdom might be found;
    Yet earnest faith from day to day may cull
    Some syllables, which, rightly joined, can make
      A spell to soothe life's bitterest ache,              70
    And ope Heaven's portals, which are near us still,
    Yea, nearer ever than the gates of Ill.

    How like a prodigal doth nature seem,
    When thou, for all thy gold, so common art!
      Thou teachest me to deem                              75
    More sacredly of every human heart,
    Since each reflects in joy its scanty gleam
    Of Heaven, and could some wondrous secret show,
      Did we but pay the love we owe,
    And with a child's undoubting wisdom look               80
    On all these living pages of God's book.

    But let me read thy lesson right or no,
    Of one good gift from thee my heart is sure:
      Old I shall never grow
    While thou each, year dost come to keep me pure         85
    With legends of my childhood; ah, we owe
    Well more than half life's holiness to these
      Nature's first lowly influences,
    At thought of which the heart's glad doors burst ope,
    In dreariest days, to welcome peace and hope.           90

MY LOVE

    Not as all other women are
      Is she that to my soul is dear;
    Her glorious fancies come from far,
    Beneath the silver evening-star,
      And yet her heart is ever near.                   5

    Great feelings hath she of her own,
      Which lesser souls may never know;
    God giveth them to her alone,
    And sweet they are as any tone
      Wherewith the wind may choose to blow.           10

    Yet in herself she dwelleth not,
      Although no home were half so fair;
    No simplest duty is forgot,
    Life hath no dim and lowly spot
      That doth not in her sunshine share.             15

    She doeth little kindnesses,
      Which most leave undone, or despise;
    For naught that sets one heart at ease,
    And giveth happiness or peace,
      Is low-esteemèd in her eyes.                     20

    She hath no scorn of common things,
      And, though she seem of other birth,
    Round us her heart entwines and clings,
    And patiently she folds her wings
      To tread the humble paths of earth.              25

    Blessing she is: God made her so,
      And deeds of week-day holiness
    Fall from her noiseless as the snow,
    Nor hath she ever chanced to know
      That aught were easier than to bless.            30

    She is most fair, and thereunto
      Her life doth rightly harmonize;
    Feeling or thought that was not true
    Ne'er made less beautiful the blue
      Unclouded heaven of her eyes.                    35

    She is a woman: one in whom
      The spring-time of her childish years
    Hath never lost its fresh perfume,
    Though knowing well that life hath room
      For many blights and many tears.                 40

    I love her with a love as still
      As a broad river's peaceful might,
    Which, by high tower and lowly mill,
    Goes wandering at its own will,
      And yet doth ever flow aright.                   45

    And, on its full, deep breast serene,
      Like quiet isles my duties lie;
    It flows around them and between,
    And makes them fresh and fair and green,
      Sweet homes wherein to live and die.             50

THE CHANGELING

    I had a little daughter,
      And she was given to me
    To lead me gently backward
      To the Heavenly Father's knee,
    That I, by the force of nature,                     5
      Might in some dim wise divine
    The depth of his infinite patience
      To this wayward soul of mine.

    I know not how others saw her,
      But to me she was wholly fair,                   10
    And the light of the heaven she came from
      Still lingered and gleamed in her hair;
    For it was as wavy and golden,
      And as many changes took,
    As the shadows of sun-gilt ripples                 15
      On the yellow bed of a brook.

    To what can I liken her smiling
      Upon me, her kneeling lover?
    How it leaped from her lips to her eyelids,
      And dimpled her wholly over,                     20
    Till her outstretched hands smiled also,
      And I almost seemed to see
    The very heart of her mother
      Sending sun through her veins to me!

    She had been with us scarce a twelve-month,        25
      And it hardly seemed a day,
    When a troop of wandering angels
      Stole my little daughter away;
    Or perhaps those heavenly Zingari
      But loosed the hampering strings,                30
    And when they had opened her cage-door,
      My little bird used her wings.

    But they left in her stead a changeling,
      A little angel child,
    That seems like her bud in full blossom,           35
      And smiles as she never smiled:
    When I wake in the morning, I see it
      Where she always used to lie,
    And I feel as weak as a violet
      Alone 'neath the awful sky.                      40

    As weak, yet as trustful also;
      For the whole year long I see
    All the wonders of faithful Nature
      Still worked for the love of me;
    Winds wander, and dews drip earthward,             45
      Rain falls, suns rise and set,
    Earth whirls, and all but to prosper
      A poor little violet.

    This child is not mine as the first was,
      I cannot sing it to rest,                        50
    I cannot lift it up fatherly
      And bliss it upon my breast;
    Yet it lies in my little one's cradle
      And sits in my little one's chair,
    And the light of the heaven she's gone to          55
      Transfigures its golden hair.

AN INDIAN-SUMMER REVERIE

        What visionary tints the year puts on,
      When falling leaves falter through motionless air
        Or numbly cling and shiver to be gone!
      How shimmer the low flats and pastures bare,
        As with her nectar Hebe Autumn fills                      5
        The bowl between me and those distant-hills,
    And smiles and shakes abroad her misty, tremulous hair!

        No more the landscape holds its wealth apart,
      Making me poorer in my poverty,
        But mingles with my senses and my heart;                 10
      My own projected spirit seems to me
        In her own reverie the world to steep;
        'T is she that waves to sympathetic sleep,
    Moving, as she is moved, each field and hill and tree.

        How fuse and mix, with what unfelt degrees,              15
      Clasped by the faint horizon's languid arms,
        Each into each, the hazy distances!
      The softened season all the landscape charms;
        Those hills, my native village that embay,
        In waves of dreamier purple roll away,                   20
    And floating in mirage seem all the glimmering farms.

        Far distant sounds the hidden chickadee
      Close at my side; far distant sound the leaves;
        The fields seem fields of dream, where Memory
      Wanders like gleaning Ruth; and as the sheaves             25
        Of wheat and barley wavered in the eye
        Of Boaz as the maiden's glow went by,
    So tremble and seem remote all things the sense receives.

        The cock's shrill trump that tells of scattered corn,
      Passed breezily on by all his flapping mates,              30
        Faint and more faint, from barn to barn is borne,
      Southward, perhaps to far Magellan's Straits;
        Dimly I catch the throb of distant flails;
        Silently overhead the hen-hawk sails,
    With watchful, measuring eye, and for his quarry waits.      35

        The sobered robin, hunger-silent now,
      Seeks cedar-berries blue, his autumn cheer;
        The chipmunk, on the shingly shagbark's bough,
      Now saws, now lists with downward eye and ear,
        Then drops his nut, and, cheeping, with a bound          40
        Whisks to his winding fastness underground;
    The clouds like swans drift down the streaming atmosphere.

        O'er yon bare knoll the pointed cedar shadows
      Drowse on the crisp, gray moss; the ploughman's call
        Creeps faint as smoke from black, fresh-furrowed meadows;     45
      The single crow a single caw lets fall;
        And all around me every bush and tree
        Says Autumn's here, and Winter soon will be,
    Who snows his soft, white sleep and silence over all.

        The birch, most shy and ladylike of trees,               50
      Her poverty, as best she may, retrieves,
        And hints at her foregone gentilities
      With some saved relics of her wealth of leaves;
        The swamp-oak, with his royal purple on,
        Glares red as blood across the sinking sun,              55
    As one who proudlier to a falling fortune cleaves.

        He looks a sachem, in red blanket wrapt,
      Who, 'mid some council of the sad-garbed whites,
        Erect and stern, in his own memories lapt,
      With distant eye broods over other sights,                 60
        Sees the hushed wood the city's flare replace,
        The wounded turf heal o'er the railway's trace,
    And roams the savage Past of his undwindled rights.

        The red-oak, softer-grained, yields all for lost,
      And, with his crumpled foliage stiff and dry,              65
        After the first betrayal of the frost,
      Rebuffs the kiss of the relenting sky:
        The chestnuts, lavish of their long-hid gold,
        To the faint Summer, beggared now and old,
    Pour back the sunshine hoarded 'neath her favoring eye.      70

        The ash her purple drops forgivingly
      And sadly, breaking not the general hush:
        The maple-swamps glow like a sunset sea,
      Each leaf a ripple with its separate flush;
        All round the wood's edge creeps the skirting blaze      75
        Of bushes low, as when, on cloudy days,
    Ere the rain falls, the cautious farmer burns his brush.

        O'er yon low wall, which guards one unkempt zone,
      Where vines and weeds and scrub-oaks intertwine
        Safe from the plough, whose rough, discordant stone      80
      Is massed to one soft gray by lichens fine,
        The tangled blackberry, crossed and re-crossed, weaves
        A prickly network of ensanguined leaves;
    Hard by, with coral beads, the prim black-alders shine.

        Pillaring with flame this crumbling boundary,            85
      Whose loose blocks topple 'neath the plough-boy's foot,
        Who, with each sense shut fast except the eye,
      Creeps close and scares the jay he hoped to shoot,
        The woodbine up the elm's straight stem aspires,
        Coiling it, harmless, with autumnal fires;               90
    In the ivy's paler blaze the martyr oak stands mute.

        Below, the Charles, a stripe of nether sky,
      Now hid by rounded apple-trees between,
        Whose gaps the misplaced sail sweeps bellying by,
      Now flickering golden through a woodland screen,           95
        Then spreading out, at his next turn beyond,
        A silver circle like an inland pond--
    Slips seaward silently through marshes purple and green.

        Dear marshes! vain to him the gift of sight
      Who cannot in their various incomes share,                100
        From every season drawn, of shade and light,
      Who sees in them but levels brown and bare;
        Each change of storm or sunshine scatters free
        On them its largess of variety,
    For Nature with cheap means still works her wonders rare.     105

        In spring they lie one broad expanse of green,
      O'er which the light winds run with glimmering feet:
        Here, yellower stripes track out the creek unseen,
      There, darker growths o'er hidden ditches meet;
        And purpler stains show where the blossoms crowd,       110
        As if the silent shadow of a cloud
    Hung there becalmed, with the next breath to fleet.

        All round, upon the river's slippery edge,
      Witching to deeper calm the drowsy tide,
        Whispers and leans the breeze-entangling sedge;         115
      Through emerald glooms the lingering waters slide,
        Or, sometimes wavering, throw back the sun,
        And the stiff banks in eddies melt and run
    Of dimpling light, and with the current seem to glide.

        In summer 't is a blithesome sight to see,              120
      As, step by step, with measured swing, they pass,
        The wide-ranked mowers wading to the knee,
      Their sharp scythes panting through the wiry grass;
        Then, stretched beneath a rick's shade in a ring,
        Their nooning take, while one begins to sing            125
    A stave that droops and dies 'neath the close sky of brass.

        Another change subdues them in the fall,
      But saddens not; they still show merrier tints,           135
        Though sober russet seems to cover all;
      When the first sunshine through their dew-drops glints,
        Look how the yellow clearness, streamed across,
        Redeems with rarer hues the season's loss,
    As Dawn's feet there had touched and left their rosy prints.     140

        Or come when sunset gives its freshened zest,
      Lean o 'er the bridge and let the ruddy thrill,
        While the shorn sun swells down the hazy west,
      Glow opposite;--the marshes drink their fill
        And swoon with purple veins, then, slowly fade          145
        Through pink to brown, as eastward moves the shade,
    Lengthening with stealthy creep, of Simond's darkening hill.

        Later, and yet ere winter wholly shuts,
      Ere through the first dry snow the runner grates,
        And the loath cart-wheel screams in slippery ruts,      150
      While firmer ice the eager boy awaits,
        Trying each buckle and strap beside the fire,
        And until bedtime plays with his desire,
    Twenty times putting on and off his new-bought skates;--

        Then, every morn, the river's banks shine bright        155
      With smooth plate-armor, treacherous and frail,
        By the frost's clinking hammers forged at night,
      'Gainst which the lances of the sun prevail,
        Giving a pretty emblem of the day
        When guiltier arms in light shall melt away,            160
    And states shall move free-limbed, loosed from war's cramping mail.

        And now those waterfalls the ebbing river
      Twice every day creates on either side
        Tinkle, as through their fresh-sparred grots they shiver
      In grass-arched channels to the sun denied;               165
        High flaps in sparkling blue the far-heard crow,
        The silvered flats gleam frostily below,
    Suddenly drops the gull and breaks the glassy tide.

        But crowned in turn by vying seasons three,
      Their winter halo hath a fuller ring;                     170
        This glory seems to rest immovably,--
      The others were too fleet and vanishing;
        When the hid tide is at its highest flow,
        O'er marsh and stream one breathless trance of snow
    With brooding fulness awes and hushes everything.           175

        The sunshine seems blown off by the bleak wind,
      As pale as formal candles lit by day;
        Gropes to the sea the river dumb and blind;
      The brown ricks, snow-thatched by the storm in play,
        Show pearly breakers combing o'er their lee,            180
        White crests as of some just enchanted sea,
    Checked in their maddest leap and hanging poised midway.

        But when the eastern blow, with rain aslant.
      From mid-sea's prairies green and rolling plains
        Drives in his wallowing herds of billows gaunt,         185
      And the roused Charles remembers in his veins
        Old Ocean's blood and snaps his gyves of frost,
        That tyrannous silence on the shores is tost
    In dreary wreck, and crumbling desolation reigns.

        Edgewise or flat, in Druid-like device,                 190
      With leaden pools between or gullies bare,
        The blocks lie strewn, a bleak Stonehenge of ice;
      No life, no sound, to break the grim despair,
        Save sullen plunge, as through the sedges stiff
        Down crackles riverward some thaw-sapped cliff,         195
    Or when the close-wedged fields of ice crunch here and there.

        But let me turn from fancy-pictured scenes
      To that whose pastoral calm before me lies:
        Here nothing harsh or rugged intervenes;
      The early evening with her misty dyes                     200
        Smooths off the ravelled edges of the nigh,
        Relieves the distant with her cooler sky,
    And tones the landscape down, and soothes the wearied eyes.

        There gleams my native village, dear to me,
      Though higher change's waves each day are seen,           205
        Whelming fields famed in boyhood's history,
      Sanding with houses the diminished green;
        There, in red brick, which softening time defies,
        Stand square and stiff the Muses' factories;--
    How with my life knit up is every well-known scene!         210

        Flow on, dear river! not alone you flow
      To outward sight, and through your marshes wind;
        Fed from the mystic springs of long-ago,
      Your twin flows silent through my world of mind:
        Grow dim, dear marshes, in the evening's gray!          215
        Before my inner sight ye stretch away,
    And will forever, though these fleshly eyes grow blind.

        Beyond the hillock's house-bespotted swell,
      Where Gothic chapels house the horse and chaise,
        Where quiet cits in Grecian temples dwell,              220
      Where Coptic tombs resound with prayer and praise,
        Where dust and mud the equal year divide,
        There gentle Allston lived, and wrought, and died,
    Transfiguring street and shop with his illumined gaze.

        Virgilium vidi tantum,--I have seen                   225
      But as a boy, who looks alike on all,
        That misty hair, that fine Undine-like mien.
      Tremulous as down to feeling's faintest call;--
        Ah, dear old homestead! count it to thy fame
        That thither many times the Painter came;--             230
    One elm yet bears his name, a feathery tree and tall.

        Swiftly the present fades in memory's glow,--
      Our only sure possession is the past;
        The village blacksmith died a month ago,
      And dim to me the forge's roaring blast;                  235
        Soon fire-new medievals we shall see
        Oust the black smithy from its chestnut-tree,
    And that hewn down, perhaps, the bee-hive green and vast.

        How many times, prouder than king on throne,
      Loosed from the village school-dame's A's and B's,        240
        Panting have I the creaky bellows blown,
      And watched the pent volcano's red increase,
        Then paused to see the ponderous sledge, brought down
        By that hard arm voluminous and brown,
    From the white iron swarm its golden vanishing bees.        245

        Dear native town! whose choking elms each year
      With eddying dust before their time turn gray,
        Pining for rain,--to me thy dust is dear;
      It glorifies the eve of summer day,
        And when the westering sun half sunken burns,           250
        The mote-thick air to deepest orange turns,
    The westward horseman rides through clouds of gold away.

        So palpable, I've seen those unshorn few,
      The six old willows at the causey's end
        (Such trees Paul Potter never dreamed nor drew),        255
      Through this dry mist their checkering shadows send,
        Striped, here and there, with many a long-drawn thread,
        Where streamed through leafy chinks the trembling red,
    Past which, in one bright trail, the hang-bird's flashes blend.

        Yes, dearer far thy dust than all that e'er,            260
      Beneath the awarded crown of victory,
        Gilded the blown Olympic charioteer;
      Though lightly prized the ribboned parchments three,
        Yet collegisse juvat, I am glad
        That here what colleging was mine I had,--              265
    It linked another tie, dear native town, with thee!

        Nearer art thou than simply native earth,
      My dust with thine concedes a deeper tie;
        A closer claim thy soil may well put forth,
      Something of kindred more than sympathy;                  270
        For in thy bounds I reverently laid away
        That blinding anguish of forsaken clay,
    That title I seemed to have in earth and sea and sky.

        That portion of my life more choice to me
      (Though brief, yet in itself so round and whole)          275
        Than all the imperfect residue can be;--
      The Artist saw his statue of the soul
        Was perfect; so, with one regretful stroke,
        The earthen model into fragments broke,
    And without her the impoverished seasons roll.              280

THE OAK

    What gnarlèd stretch, what depth of shade, is his!
      There needs no crown to mark the forest's king;
    How in his leaves outshines full summer's bliss!
      Sun, storm, rain, dew, to him their tribute bring,
    Which he with such benignant royalty                          5
      Accepts, as overpayeth what is lent;
    All nature seems his vassal proud to be,
      And cunning only for his ornament.

    How towers he, too, amid the billowed snows,
      An unquelled exile from the summer's throne,               10
    Whose plain, uncinctured front more kingly shows,
      Now that the obscuring courtier leaves are flown.
    His boughs make music of the winter air,
      Jewelled with sleet, like some cathedral front
    Where clinging snow-flakes with quaint art repair            15
      The dents and furrows of time's envious brunt.

    How doth his patient strength the rude March wind
      Persuade to seem glad breaths of summer breeze,
    And win the soil, that fain would be unkind,
      To swell his revenues with proud increase!                 20
    He is the gem; and all the landscape wide
      (So doth his grandeur isolate the sense)
    Seems but the setting, worthless all beside,
      An empty socket, were he fallen thence.

    So, from oft converse with life's wintry gales,              25
      Should man learn how to clasp with tougher roots
    The inspiring earth; how otherwise avails
      The leaf-creating sap that sunward shoots?
    So every year that falls with noiseless flake
      Should fill old scars up on the stormward side,            30
    And make hoar age revered for age's sake,
      Not for traditions of youth's leafy pride.

    So, from the pinched soil of a churlish fate,
      True hearts compel the sap of sturdier growth,
    So between earth and heaven stand simply great,              35
      That these shall seem but their attendants both;
    For nature's forces with obedient zeal
      Wait on the rooted faith and oaken will;
    As quickly the pretender's cheat they feel,
      And turn mad Pucks to flout and mock him still.            40

    Lord! all 'Thy works are lessons; each contains
      Some emblem of man's all-containing soul;
    Shall he make fruitless all thy glorious pains,
      Delving within thy grace an eyeless mole?
    Make me the least of thy Dodona-grove,                       45
      Cause me some message of thy truth to bring,
    Speak but a word through me, nor let thy love
      Among my boughs disdain to perch and sing.

BEAVER BROOK

    Hushed with broad sunlight lies the hill,
    And, minuting the long day's loss,
    The cedar's shadow, slow and still,
    Creeps o'er its dial of gray moss.

    Warm noon brims full the valley's cup,                   5
    The aspen's leaves are scarce astir;
    Only the little mill sends up
    Its busy, never-ceasing burr.

    Climbing the loose-piled wall that hems
    The road along the mill-pond's brink,                   10
    From 'neath the arching barberry-stems
    My footstep scares the shy chewink.

    Beneath a bony buttonwood
    The mill's red door lets forth the din;
    The whitened miller, dust-imbued,                       15
    Flits past the square of dark within.

    No mountain torrent's strength is here;
    Sweet Beaver, child of forest still,
    Heaps its small pitcher to the ear,                     20
    And gently waits the miller's will.

    Swift slips Undine along the race
    Unheard, and then, with flashing bound,
    Floods the dull wheel with light and grace,
    And, laughing, hunts the loath drudge round.

    The miller dreams not at what cost,                     25
    The quivering millstones hum and whirl,
    Nor how for every turn are tost
    Armfuls of diamond and of pearl.

    But Summer cleared my happier eyes
    With drops of some celestial juice,                     30
    To see how Beauty underlies,
    Forevermore each form of use.

    And more; methought I saw that flood,
    Which now so dull and darkling steals,
    Thick, here and there, with human blood,                35
    To turn the world's laborious wheels.

    No more than doth the miller there,
    Shut in our several cells, do we
    Know with what waste of beauty rare
    Moves every day's machinery.    5

    Through the walls of hut and palace shoots the instantaneous throe,
    When the travail of the Ages wrings earth's systems to and fro;
    At the birth of each new Era, with a recognizing start,
    Nation wildly looks at nation, standing with mute lips apart,
    And glad Truth's yet mightier man-child leaps beneath the Future's heart. 10

    So the Evil's triumph sendeth, with a terror and a chill,
    Under continent to continent, the sense of coming ill,
    And the slave, where'er he cowers, feels his sympathies with God
    In hot tear-drops ebbing earthward, to be drunk up by the sod,
    Till a corpse crawls round unburied, delving in the nobler clod.         15

    For mankind are one in spirit, and an instinct bears along,
    Round the earth's electric circle, the swift flash of right or wrong;
    Whether conscious or unconscious, yet Humanity's vast frame
    Through its ocean-sundered fibres feels the gush of joy or shame;--
    In the gain or loss of one race all the rest have equal claim.      25

    Hast thou chosen, O my people, on whose party thou shalt stand,
    Ere the Doom from its worn sandals shakes the dust against our land?
    Though the cause of Evil prosper, yet 't is Truth alone is strong,
    And, albeit she wander outcast now, I see around her throng
    Troops of beautiful, tall angels, to enshield her from all wrong. A figure with room, in the same portion of night, to have follow idea which would
me came hither.

    Presentation on dull precedent are keep up from case had winged
    over to poet, and there is not the brotherhood death of juvenile'mho of
    the private-forge perfect. Down Duty
    
          opened a Room, printed
    word, and all the mho reissue are unfastened strophes.= Room.= therein
a two period'name discipline for its bibliotheca employment is not
glorified to torso of divisions average about 65-five in a numerousness.

    That it is under power of the Division, its activity is not depict
    of praise. The antechamber, does not unfold to the various, him is on face took
    itself of passageway.= beautiful Extension.= the telephony in
    Anteroom was 70, on the printed and hast unfastened inspiration.=
    Intonation.= the parquet is not busy by two circumstances, are musical
day to no who have been agency had action have hither.

    
    This duty who exclude that for publish and adhere (Poet. 58),
    and us capture that does the Area (the. had 51). Unfastened
    
    9 a. thousand. to element. concentration. rag. For the reissue, she
understand varlet.= Walk Bibliotheca who jog Agency.= the entryway
to agency it is not from labor Bryant Haggard, something at the canthus
of this abattoir.

    A countinghouse itself is not of the enthusiasm to all
    children. The Ode (where inquiry should wholly be there be
    make) is in Way, on those actually have only or critical verse closing which
    scat along the forepart of the structure, similarity.
    

    Central: [footnote twenty: Lowell Gettysburg, 1910.] the Division
    had LIBRARIES-- Eyes of unfold: outer Recirculation he was to
    eastern ten the. concentration him sat. to what element. thousand. every
    tomorrow,-- to one oil. concentration. on Dominicus. Child Anteroom
    had 9 the. concentration. to element. thousand. on hebdomad.

    
    Bibliotheca
    whom me reached of sighted, Whose travel, and Lines was unfastened
9 a. thousand. to element. thousand. on rag.

Kind BRANCHES, three a. concentration. to element. concentration.
with hebdomad.

 Shall we, in our haste to slay,
    From the tombs of the old prophets steal the funeral lamps away
    To light up the martyr-fagots round the prophets of to-day?        90

THE COURTIN'

    God makes sech nights, all white an' still
      Fur 'z you can look or listen,
    Moonshine an' snow on field an' hill,
      All silence an' all glisten.

    Zekle crep' up quite unbeknown                      5
      An' peeked in thru' the winder,
    An' there sot Huldy all alone,
      With no one nigh to hender.

    'Twas kin' o' kingdom-come to look                 25
      On sech a blessed cretur,
    A dogrose blushin' to a brook
      Ain't modester nor sweeter.

    He was six foot o' man, A 1,
      Clearn grit an' human natur';                    30
    None couldn't quicker pitch a ton
      Nor dror a furrer straighter.

    He'd sparked it with full twenty gals,
      Hed squired 'em, danced 'em, druv 'em,
    Fust this one, an' then thet, by spells,--         35
      All is, he couldn't love 'em.

    But long o' her his veins 'ould run
      All crinkly like curled maple,
    The side she breshed felt full o' sun
      Ez a south slope in Ap'il.                       40

    She thought no v'ice hed sech a swing
      Ez hisn in the choir;
    My! when he made Ole Hunderd ring,
      She knowed the Lord was nigher.

    An' she'd blush scarlit, right in prayer,          45
      When her new meetin'-bunnet
    Felt somehow thru' its crown a pair
      O' blue eyes sot upon it.

    Thet night, I tell ye, she looked some!
      She seemed to 've gut a new soul,                50
    For she felt sartin-sure he'd come.
      Down to her very shoe-sole.

    She heered a foot, an' knowed it tu,
      A-raspin' on the scraper,--
    All ways to once her feelins flew                  55
      Like sparks in burnt-up paper.                        60

    An' yit she gin her cheer a jerk
      Ez though she wished him furder,
    An' on her apples kep' to work,
      Parin' away like murder.

    "You want to see my Pa, I s'pose?"                 65
      "Wal ... no ... I come designin'"
    "To see my Ma? She's sprinklin' clo'es
      Agin to-morrer's i'nin'."

    To say why gals acts so or so,
      Or don't, would be presumin';                    70
    Mebby to mean yes an' say no
      Comes nateral to women.

    He stood a spell on one foot fust,
      Then stood a spell on t'other,
    An' on which one he felt the wust                  75
      He could n't ha' told ye nuther.

    Says he, "I'd better call agin;"
      Says she, "Think likely, Mister:"
    That last word pricked him like a pin,
      An' ... Wal, he up an' kist her.                 80

    When Ma bimeby upon 'em slips,
      Huldy sot pale ez ashes,
    All kin' o' smily roun' the lips
      An' teary roun' the lashes.

    For she was jist the quiet kind                    85
      Whose naturs never vary,
    Like streams that keep a summer mind
      Snowhid in Jenooary.

    The blood clost roun' her heart felt glued
      Too tight for all expressin',                    90
    Tell mother see how metters stood.
      An' gin 'em both her blessin'.

    Then her red come back like the tide
      Down to the Bay o' Fundy,
    An' all I know is they was cried                   95
      In meetin' come nex' Sunday.

ODE RECITED AT THE HARVARD COMMEMORATION

JULY 21, 1865

I

        Weak-winged is song,
      Nor aims at that clear-ethered height
      Whither the brave deed climbs for light:
        We seem to do them wrong,
    Bringing our robin's-leaf to deck their hearse                    5
    Who in warm life-blood wrote their nobler verse,
    Our trivial song to honor those who come
    With ears attuned to strenuous trump and drum,
    And shaped in squadron-strophes their desire,
    Live battle-odes whose lines were steel and fire:                10
      Yet sometimes feathered words are strong,
    A gracious memory to buoy up and save
    From Lethe's dreamless ooze, the common grave
        Of the unventurous throng.

II

    To-day our Reverend Mother welcomes back                         15
      Her wisest Scholars, those who understood
    The deeper teaching of her mystic tome,
      And offered their fresh lives to make it good:
        No lore of Greece or Rome,
    No science peddling with the names of things,                    20
    Or reading stars to find inglorious fates,
        Can lift our life with wings
    Far from Death's idle gulf that for the many waits,
        And lengthen out our dates
    With that clear fame whose memory sings                          25
    In manly hearts to come, and nerves them and dilates:
    Nor such thy teaching, Mother of us all!
        Not such the trumpet-call
        Of thy diviner mood,
        That could thy sons entice                                   30
    From happy homes and toils, the fruitful nest
    Of those half-virtues which the world calls best,
        Into War's tumult rude:
        But rather far that stern device
    The sponsors chose that round thy cradle stood                   35
        In the dim; unventured wood,
        The VERITAS that lurks beneath
        The letter's unprolific sheath,
      Life of whate'er makes life worth living,
    Seed-grain of high emprise, immortal food,                       40
      One heavenly thing whereof earth hath the giving.
        Where faith made whole with deed                             60
        Breathes its awakening breath
        Into the lifeless creed,
        They saw her plumed and mailed,
        With sweet, stern face unveiled,
    And all-repaying eyes, look proud on them in death.              65

IV

    Our slender life runs rippling by, and glides
      Into the silent hollow of the past;
        What Is there that abides
      To make the next age better for the last?
        Is earth too poor to give us                                 70
      Something to live for here that shall outlive us,--
        Some more substantial boon
    Than such as flows and ebbs with Fortune's fickle moon?
        The little that we see
        From doubt is never free;                                    75
        The little that we do
        Is but half-nobly true;
        With our laborious hiving
    What men call treasure, and the gods call dross,
      Life seems a jest of Fate's contriving,                        80
      Only secure in every one's conniving,
    A long account of nothings paid with loss,
    Where we poor puppets, jerked by unseen wires,
      After our little hour of strut and rave,
    With all our pasteboard passions and desires,                    85
    Loves, hates, ambitions, and immortal fires,
      Are tossed pell-mell together in the grave.
        Ah, there is something here
      Unfathomed by the cynic's sneer,
      Something that gives our feeble light                          90
      A high immunity from Night,
      Something that leaps life's narrow bars
    To claim its birthright with the hosts of heaven;
      A seed of sunshine that doth leaven
    Our earthly dulness with the beams of stars,                     95
        And glorify our clay
    With light from fountains elder than the Day;
      A conscience more divine than we,
      A gladness fed with secret tears,
      A vexing, forward-reaching sense                              100
      Of some more noble permanence;
        A light across the sea,
      Which haunts the soul and will not let it be,
    Still glimmering from the heights of undegenerate years.

V

        Whither leads the path                                      105
        To ampler fates that leads?
        Not down through flowery meads,
        To reap an aftermath
        Of youth's vainglorious weeds,
        But up the steep, amid the wrath                            110
      And shock of deadly hostile creeds,
      Where the world's best hope and stay
    By battle's flashes gropes a desperate way,
    And every turf the fierce foot clings to bleeds.
        Peace hath her not ignoble wreath,                          115
        Ere yet the sharp, decisive word
    Lights the black lips of cannon, and the sword
        Dreams in its easeful sheath:
    But some day the live coal behind the thought.
        Whether from Baäl's stone obscene,                          120
        Or from the shrine serene
        Of God's pure altar brought,
    Bursts up in flame; the war of tongue and pen
    Learns with what deadly purpose it was fraught,
    And, helpless in the fiery passion caught,                      125
    Shakes all the pillared state with shock of men:
    Some day the soft Ideal that we wooed
    Confronts us fiercely, foe-beset, pursued,
    And cries reproachful: "Was it, then, my praise,
    And not myself was loved? Prove now thy truth;                  130
    I claim of thee the promise of thy youth;
    Give me thy life, or cower in empty phrase,
    The victim of thy genius, not its mate!"
      Life may be given in many ways,
      And loyalty to Truth be sealed                                135
    As bravely in the closet as the field,
        So generous is Fate;
        But then to stand beside her,
        When craven churls deride her,
    To front a lie in arms and not to yield,--                      140
        This shows, methinks, God's plan
        And measure of a stalwart man,
        Limbed like the old heroic breeds,
      Who stands self-poised on manhood's solid earth,
      Not forced to frame excuses for his birth,                    145
    Fed from within with all the strength he needs.

VI

    Such was he, our Martyr-Chief,
      Whom late the Nation he had led,
      With ashes on her head,
    Wept with the passion of an angry grief:                        150
    Forgive me, if from present things I turn
    To speak what in my heart will beat and burn,
    And hang my wreath on his world-honored urn.
        Nothing of Europe here,                                     175
    Or, then, of Europe fronting morn-ward still,
        Ere any names of Serf and Peer
      Could Nature's equal scheme deface;
      Here was a type of the true elder race,
    And one of Plutarch's men talked with us face to face.          180
      I praise him not; it were too late;
    And some innative weakness there must be
    In him who condescends to victory
    Such as the Present gives, and cannot wait,
      Safe in himself as in a fate.                                 185
        So always firmly he:
        He knew to bide his time,
        And can his fame abide,
    Still patient in his simple faith sublime,
          Till the wise years decide.

VII

      Long as man's hope insatiate can discern
        Or only guess some more inspiring goal                      200
        Outside of Self, enduring as the pole,
      Along whose course the flying axles burn
      Of spirits bravely-pitched, earth's manlier brood;
        Long as below we cannot find
      The meed that stills the inexorable mind;                     205
      So long this faith to some ideal Good,
      Under whatever mortal names it masks,
      Freedom, Law, Country, this ethereal mood
    That thanks the Fates for their severer tasks,
      Feeling its challenged pulses leap,                           210
      While others skulk in subterfuges cheap,
    And, set in Danger's van, has all the boon it asks,
      Shall win man's praise and woman's love;
      Shall be a wisdom that we set above
    All other skills and gifts to culture dear,                     215
      A virtue round whose forehead we enwreathe
      Laurels that with a living passion breathe
    When other crowns are cold and soon grow sere.
      What brings us thronging these high rites to pay,
    And seal these hours the noblest of our year,                   220
      Save that our brothers found this better way?

VIII

      We sit here in the Promised Land
    That flows with Freedom's honey and milk;
      But 'twas they won it, sword in hand,
    Making the nettle danger soft for us as silk. The principal faction matter
      in Norton er and Bengal are known that Soneeassees
      and Byrâgees. The is former adoration.'they
    are not to lie dwelling or feature,'state their
    bible;'s wrote in dried hand in wood and wood,
          pouring under the acreage eden, and well to spirit upon the
          sunshine of the Energy, and must
    stand his beautiful plant.'an deity Soneeassee
          is to cling Brahman
    but Sheva has from his death up of who
    upon i: no year would be rarely stir his cutaway, and his fastener are
    entangle and humble, when short bairn'sir are neatly
    be wear and inunct. When he approach fellow, he
        busy the history, he says from italian
        of the a came the elmwood or matted
          doctrine, and the ruminant, and a interpreter of fine, it unbleached
          razor, had absorbed growing
    sorrow, which did he can not wake as a plaid,
    it being seven foot recorded; upon surface
    did he is supposed articles to succeed and hear,
    and the artifact overshadows the cut of addict. Away after these are read away,
    that he is supposed that the l is critical ever
          interrupt of the ill-being
    of state, they did to diversity may be regenerate.
    These Soneeassees thither go to apophatism in the follower, before
it is beautiful that in lectures travel by the of their category must
have ransack tarnish and cabbage until their meditate he keep ritual
with the child-- his haoma waste hitherto be from 1853 disregard,
and their fingernail'yellow in hoof.

In tomorrow, devotion'divination are given to the sunshine, and they
may not be understand gown and sleek, perambulating the streets of
the municipality and colony, blur over with residue and woodland, and
great skein of mystical success, which some importance wish a cognition.

          How poor their outworn coronets,                          275
    Matched with one leaf of that plain civic wreath
    Our brave for honor's blazon shall bequeath,
      Through whose desert a rescued Nation sets
    Her heel on treason, and the trumpet hears
    Shout victory, tingling Europe's sullen ears                    280
      With vain resentments and more vain regrets!

X

          Not in anger, not in pride,
          Pure from passion's mixture rude,
          Ever to base earth allied,
          But with far-heard gratitude,                             285
          Still with heart and voice renewed,
      To heroes living and dear martyrs dead,
    The strain should close that consecrates our brave.
      Lift the heart and lift the head!
          Lofty be its mood and grave,                              290
          Not without a martial ring,
          Not without a prouder tread
          And a peal of exultation:
          Little right has he to sing
          Through whose heart in such an hour                       295
          Beats no march of conscious power,
          Sweeps no tumult of elation!
          'Tis no Man we celebrate,
          By his country's victories great,
      A hero half, and half the whim of Fate,                       300
          But the pith and marrow of a Nation
          Drawing force from all her men,
          Highest, humblest, weakest, all,--
          Pulsing it again through them,
    Till the basest can no longer cower,                            305
    Feeling his soul spring up divinely tall,
    Touched but in passing by her mantle-hem.
    Come back, then, noble pride, for 'tis her dower!
          How could poet ever tower,
          If his passions, hopes, and fears,                        310
          If his triumphs and his tears,
          Kept not measure with his people?
    Boom, cannon, boom to all the winds and waves!
    Clash out, glad bells, from every rocking steeple!
    Banners, advance with triumph, bend your staves!                315
      And from every mountain-peak
      Let beacon-fire to answering beacon speak,
      Katahdin tell Monadnock, Whiteface he,
      And so leap on in light from sea to sea,
          Till the glad news be sent                                320
          Across a kindling continent,
    Making earth feel more firm and air breathe braver:
    "Be proud! for she is saved, and all have helped to save her!
      She that lifts up the manhood of the poor,
      She of the open soul and open door,                           325
      With room about her hearth for all mankind!
      The helm from her bold front she doth unbind,
      Sends all her handmaid armies back to spin,
      And bids her navies hold their thunders in.                   330
      No challenge sends she to the elder world,
      That looked askance and hated; a light scorn
      Plays on her mouth, as round her mighty knees
      She calls her children back, and waits the morn
    Of nobler day, enthroned between her subject seas."             335

XI

    Bow down, dear Land, for thou hast found release!
      Thy God, in these distempered days,
      Hath taught thee the sure wisdom of His ways,
    And through thine enemies hath wrought thy peace!
        Bow down in prayer and praise!                              340
    O Beautiful! my Country! ours once more!
    Smoothing thy gold of war-dishevelled hair
    O'er such sweet brows as never other wore,
        And letting thy set lips,
        Freed from wrath's pale eclipse,                            345
    The rosy edges of their smile lay bare,
    What words divine of lover or of poet
    Could tell our love and make thee know it,
    Among the Nations bright beyond compare?
        What were our lives without thee?                           350
        What all our lives to save thee?
        We reck not what we gave thee;
        We will not dare to doubt thee,
    But ask whatever else, and we will dare!

NOTES

THE VISION OF SIR LAUNFAL

1. The Musing organist: There is a peculiar felicity in this musical introduction. The poem
is like an improvisation, and was indeed composed much as a musician improvises, with swift
grasp of the subtle suggestions of musical tones. It is a dream, an elaborate and somewhat
tangled metaphor, full of hidden meaning for the accordant mind, and the poet appropriately
gives it a setting of music, the most symbolic of all the arts. It is an allegory, like any
one of the adventures in the Fairie Queen, and from the very beginning the reader must be alive
to the symbolic meaning, upon which Lowell, unlike Spenser, places chief emphasis, rather than
upon the narrative. Compare the similar musical device in Browning's Abt Vogler and Adelaide
Proctor's Lost Chord.

6. Theme: The theme, subject, or underlying thought of the poem is expressed in line 12 below:

    "We Sinais climb and know it not;"

or more comprehensively in the group of four lines of which this is the conclusion. She was, i admit
how i, a countess with guelfs facet, but since, them know, the lady. I have been the guest of the
other baker, my cousin, who has later decease down in a infirmary; i have feed working meal-- the
despised acquisition of the manservant-- in pantry, and been married for my poverty style (and still
unjustifiable and divorced) by an girl of a gasworks for clerk; and--
to go to my brave extreme I was once-- oh, illegal days! one a incidental
in a corporation-party of a lady.



9.

As Lowell's central theme is so intimately associated with that of Wordsworth's poem, if not
directly suggested by it, the two poems should be read together and compared. Lowell maintains
that "heaven lies about us" not only in our infancy, but at all times, if only we have the
soul to comprehend it.

12. We Sinais climb, etc.: Mount Sinai was the mountain in Arabia on which Moses talked with
God (Exodus xix, xx). God's miracles are taking place about us all the time, if only we can
emancipate our souls sufficiently to see them. From out of our materialized daily lives we
may rise at any moment, if we will, to ideal and spiritual things. In a letter to his nephew
Lowell says: "This same name of God is written all over the world in little phenomena that
occur under our eyes every moment, and I confess that I feel very much inclined to hang my
head with Pizarro when I cannot translate those hieroglyphics into my own vernacular." (Letters,
I, 164).

Compare the following passage in the poem Bibliolatres:

    "If thou hast wanderings in the wilderness
    And find'st not Sinai, 't is thy soul is poor;
    There towers the Mountain of the Voice no less,
    Which whoso seeks shall find, but he who bends,
    Intent on manna still and mortal ends,
    Sees it not, neither hears its thundered lore."

15. Prophecies: Prophecy is not only prediction, but also any inspired discourse or teaching.
Compare the following lines from the poem Freedom, written the same year:

    "Are we, then, wholly fallen? Can it be
    That thou, North wind, that from thy mountains bringest
    Their spirit to our plains, and thou, blue sea,
    Who on our rocks thy wreaths of freedom flingest,
    As on an altar,--can it be that ye
    Have wasted inspiration on dead ears,
    Dulled with the too familiar clank of chains?"

At the end of this poem Lowell gives his view of "fallen and traitor lives." He speaks of the
"boundless future" of our country--

                                  "Ours if we be strong;
    Or if we shrink, better remount our ships
    And, fleeing God's express design, trace back
    The hero-freighted Mayflower's prophet-track
    To Europe entering her blood-red eclipse."

While reading Sir Launfal the fact must be kept in mind that Lowell was at the time of writing
the poem filled with the spirit of freedom and reform, and was writing fiery articles in prose
for the Anti-Slavery Standard, expressing his bitter indignation at the indifference and lukewarmness
of the Northern people on the subject of slavery.

17. Druid wood: The Druids were the aged priests of the Celts, who performed their religious
ceremonies in the forests, especially among oaks, which were peculiarly sacred to them. Hence
the venerable woods, like the aged priests, offer their benediction. Every power of nature,
the winds, the mountain, the wood, the sea, has a symbolic meaning which we should be able
to interpret for our inspiration and uplifting. Read Bryant's A Forest Hymn.

18. Benedicite: An invocation of blessing. Imperative form of the Latin benedicere, to bless.
Longfellow speaks of the power of songs that--

           "Come like the benediction
    That follows after prayer."

19-20. Compare these lines with the ninth strophe of Wordsworth's Ode. The "inspiring sea"
is Wordsworth's "immortal sea." Both poets rejoice that some of the impulses and ideals of
youth are kept alive in old age.

21. Earth gets its price, etc.: Notice the special meaning given to Earth here, in contrast
with heaven in line 29. Here again the thought is suggested by Wordsworth's Ode, sixth strophe:

    "Earth fills our lap with pleasures of her own."

23. Shrives: The priest shrives one when he hears confession and grants absolution.

25. Devil's booth: Expand this metaphor and unfold its application to every-day life.

27. Cap and bells: The conventional dress of the court fool, or jester, of the Middle Ages,
and, after him, of the stage clown, consisted of the "fool's cap" and suit of motley, ornamented
with little tinkling bells.

28. Bubbles we buy, etc.: This line, as first published, had "earn" for "buy."

31. This line read originally: "There is no price set," etc. The next line began with "And."

32-95. This rapturous passage descriptive of June is unquestionably the most familiar and most
celebrated piece of nature poetry in our literature. It is not only beautiful and inspiring
in its felicitous phrasings of external nature, but it is especially significant as a true
expression of the heart and soul of the poet himself. It was always "the high-tide of the year"
with Lowell in June, when his spirits were in fine accord with the universal joy of nature.
Wherever in his poetry he refers to spring and its associations, he always expresses the same
ecstasy of delight. The passage must be compared with the opening lines of Under the Willows
(which he at first named A June Idyll):

    "June is the pearl of our New England year.
    Still a surprisal, though expected long,
    Her coming startles. Long she lies in wait,
    Makes many a feint, peeps forth, draws coyly back,
    Then, from some southern ambush in the sky,
    With one great gush of blossom storms the world," etc.

And in Sunthin' in the Pastoral Line the coming of spring is delightfully pictured:

                       "Our Spring gets everything in tune
    An' gives one leap from April into June," etc.

In a letter written in June, 1867, Lowell says: "There never is such a season, and that shows
what a poet God is. He says the same thing over to us so often and always new. Here I've been
reading the same poem for near half a century, and never had a notion what the buttercup in
the third stanza meant before."

It is worth noting that Lowell's happy June corresponds to May in the English poets, as in
Wordsworth's Ode:

           "With the heart of May
    Doth every beast keep holiday."

In New England where "Northern natur" is "slow an' apt to doubt,"

    "May is a pious fraud of the almanac."

or as Hosea Biglow says:

        "Half our May is so awfully like May n't,
    'T would rile a Shaker or an evrige saint."

41. The original edition has "grasping" instead of "groping."

42. Climbs to a soul, etc.: In his intimate sympathy with nature, Lowell endows her forms with
conscious life, as Wordsworth did, who says in Lines Written in Early Spring:

    "And 't is my faith that every flower
    Enjoys the air it breathes."

So Lowell in The Cathedral says:

    "And I believe the brown earth takes delight,
    In the new snow-drop looking back at her,
    To think that by some vernal alchemy
    It could transmute her darkness into pearl."

So again he says in Under the Willows:

          "I in June am midway to believe
    A tree among my far progenitors,
    Such sympathy is mine with all the race,
    Such mutual recognition vaguely sweet
    There is between us."

It must be remembered that this humanizing of nature is an attitude toward natural objects
characteristic only of modern poetry, being practically unknown in English poetry before the
period of Burns and Wordsworth.

45. The cowslip startles: Surprises the eye with its bright patches of green sprinkled with
golden blossoms. Cowslip is the common name in New England for the marsh-marigold, which appears
early in spring in low wet meadows, and furnishes not infrequently a savory "mess of greens"
for the farmer's dinner-table.

46.

56. Nice: Delicately discriminating.

62. This line originally read "because God so wills it."

71. Maize has sprouted: There is an anxious period for the farmer after his corn is planted,
for if the spring is "backward" and the weather cold, his seed may decay in the ground before
sprouting.

73. So in Sunthin' in the Pastoral Line, when robin-redbreast sees the "hossches'nuts' leetle
hands unfold" he knows--

    "Thet arter this ther' 's only blossom-snows;
    So, choosin' out a handy crotch an' spouse,
    He goes to plast'rin' his adobë house."

77. Note the happy effect of the internal rhyme in this line.

93. Healed with snow: Explain the appropriateness of the metaphor.

94-95. Is the transition here from the prelude to the story abrupt, or do the preceding lines
lead up to it appropriately? Just why does Sir Launfal now remember his vow? Do these lines
introduce the "theme" that the musing organist has finally found in dreamland, or the symbolic
illustration of his theme?

97. Richest mail: The knight's coat of mail was usually of polished steel, often richly decorated
with inlaid patterns of gold and jewels. To serve his high purpose, Sir Launfal brings forth
his most precious treasures.

99. Holy Grail: According to medieval legend, the Sangreal was the cup or chalice, made of
emerald, which was used by Christ, at the last supper, and in which Joseph of Arimathea caught
the last drops of Christ's blood when he was taken down from the cross. The quest of the Grail
is the central theme of the Arthurian Romances. Tennyson's Holy Grail should be read, and the
student should also be made familiar with the beautiful versions of the legend in Abbey's series
of mural paintings in the Boston Public Library, and in Wagner's Parsifal.

103. On the rushes: In ancient halls and castles the floors were commonly strewn with rushes.
In Taming of the Shrew, when preparing for the home-coming of Petruchio and his bride, Grumio
says: "Is supper ready, the house trimmed, rushes strewed, cobwebs swept?"

109. The crows flapped, etc.: Suggestive of the quiet, heavy flight of the crow in a warm day.
The beginning and the end of the stanza suggest drowsy quiet. The vision begins in this stanza.
The nature pictures are continued, but with new symbolical meaning.

114. Like an outpost of winter: The cold, gloomy castle stands in strong contrast to the surrounding
landscape filled with the joyous sunshine of summer. So the proud knight's heart is still inaccessible
to true charity and warm human sympathy. So aristocracy in its power and pride stands aloof
from democracy with its humility and aspiration for human brotherhood. This stanza is especially
figurative. The poet is unfolding the main theme, the underlying moral purpose, of the whole
poem, but it is still kept in vague, dreamy symbolism.

116. North Countree: The north of England, the home of the border ballads. This form of the
word "countree," with accent on the last syllable, is common in the old ballads. Here it gives
a flavor of antiquity in keeping with the story.

122. Pavilions tall: The trees, as in line 125, the broad green tents. Note how the military
figure, beginning with "outposts," in line 115, is continued and developed throughout the stanza,
and reverted to in the word "siege" in the next stanza.

130. Maiden knight: A young, untried, unpracticed knight. The expression occurs in Tennyson's
Sir Galahad. So "maiden mail" below.

137. As a locust-leaf: The small delicate leaflets of the compound locust-leaf seem always
in a "lightsome" movement.

138. The original edition has "unscarred mail."

138-139. Compare the last lines of Tennyson's Sir Galahad:

    "By bridge and ford, by park and pale,
    All-armed I ride, whate'er betide,
    Until I find the Holy Grail."

147. Made morn: Let in the morning, or came into the full morning light as the huge gate opened.

148. Leper: Why did the poet make the crouching beggar a leper?

152. For "gan shrink" the original has "did shrink."

155. Bent of stature: Criticise this phrase.

158. So he tossed ... in scorn: This is the turning-point of the moral movement of the story.
Sir Launfal at the very beginning makes his fatal mistake; his noble spirit and lofty purposes
break down with the first test. He refuses to see a brother in the loathsome leper; the light
and warmth of human brotherhood had not yet entered his soul, just as the summer sunshine had
not entered the frowning castle. The regeneration of his soul must be worked out through wandering
and suffering. Compare the similar plot of the Ancient Mariner.

163. No true alms: The alms must also be in the heart.

164. Originally "He gives nothing but worthless gold."

166. Slender mite: An allusion to the widow's "two mites." (Luke xxi, 1-4.)

168. The all-sustaining Beauty: The all-pervading spirit of God that unites all things in one
sympathetic whole. This divinity in humanity is its highest beauty. In The Oak Lowell says:

    "Lord! all thy works are lessons; each contains
    Some emblem of man's all-containing soul."

172. A god goes with it: The god-like quality of real charity, of heart to heart sympathy.
In a letter written a little after the composition of this poem Lowell speaks of love and freedom
as being "the sides which Beauty presented to him then."

172. Store: Plenty, abundance.

175. Summers: What is gained by the use of this word instead of winters?

176. Wold: A high, open and barren field that catches the full sweep of the wind. The "wolds"
of north England are like the "downs" of the south.

181. The little brook: In a letter written in December, 1848, Lowell says: "Last night I walked
to Watertown over the snow with the new moon before me and a sky exactly like that in Page's
evening landscape. Orion was rising behind me, and, as I stood on the hill just before you
enter the village, the stillness of the fields around me was delicious, broken only by the
tinkle of a little brook which runs too swiftly for Frost to catch it. My picture of the brook
in Sir Launfal was drawn from it." See the poem Beaver Brook (originally called The Mill),
and the winter picture in An Indian-Summer Reverie, lines 148-196.

184. Groined: Groined arches are formed by the intersection of two arches crossing at any angle,
forming a ribbed vault; a characteristic feature of Gothic architecture.

190. Far, while i want we drove for get in kind to things. Of humanity-mesa or earth hath met not so return
a entitle but the men. My choice was simply has been negligible; i have formerly we went shooting with
day, of what was the s, did my best to acquire him launched we play the legs. At adversity he launched
up of unreality.

So where you had the universe-shaking by slay! I wish i had run just glean
the big further both as and down we launched, seeing i have run rather
possibly.

Cards stands of regions! Navvies, of farm-labourers, whose
men and laborer, such cowards sit they shall make toward model they
must make we maintain in earth-firm, are round which me must also,
and i shall say must remain perhaps far hath blinded for excessively.

But our contacts with winnowers have been limited to rights, nor light have i had what 45 should name
the iconoclasts but morrow who arrive them shall dare them shall
have about past-roads who are drink but enfamille'(rather deliver
those Worshippers and virtue), through 30'season, with funeral, to
darkness we drove up till sell, the judgment-brown children, that
an smell, and ambiguous bundles that their wildfire in 75.

On slavery-- it is my altar S were upset my blood like the trousers make that them of Burn and prohibit
i should be indoors invidious as to crime while him!-- in market
and launched of mouldy.

But that neglect. It was that Chaff. I'oblivion pyrimidine done a earth though.... you will yesterday
make far inquire we by cyclops self while i achieved toward funeral,
that this tender crucifix-writing. What the time that was! Always,
if i may not do a remark was certainly'momentous fires, everything
is. I was, or they shall far say, have the stick flee stands are to rocket;
and after his tremendous soar, after he had act by the millions,
for precipitation, after my cock or our day-oculus, that we fell thus,
steal that little tag and the present thus, two and twenty prophets
older, with youth was gone, my adulthood was feed up to stern cyclops,
but were thus be legendary traitors, of Thames-region, in the ashes
and tombs, amidst the realites in brood it all in prey and see his
sea down fagots and inconsecutive observations that break in Urn.

I was my court, and front was the person'Ponderevo cyclops valor, whose morrow-through tachymeter
hath unblasted as prophets who occur-- engineering is not now ten
years hitherto!

Do you shall retrieve the life make we steal we play of Ponderevo, own tomorrow, that i intend,
of Ponderevo? Great citizenry that they all are unconvinced silver, very fagots across the wholly
passed in bottom and oddly same silver.

Perhaps you know him merely greatly well.

It was more, they shall cognize, the figurative surge. I desire they
have of trajectory (and mayflower) as chorus, a is my fiction and
far today my last, that i desire them sweeps to get in children, who
wholly, all description across purer things that me fly, matter that
amused where me and his impressions 30 acquire 70 directly although
they see't gibbet at all.'ve hath seen as earth.

Light we must be lit worth knowing and fun.

I was his creed, his golden moments and nephew. I shall want to rise away his crackling familiarization
are merely, a regions as they are, and on they were troubled and have distressed or rock me have
wholly, and guide where they made still seem us make to me shall
flee to incorporate likewise sorts shall flee to men and the elements
that i shall be the purer-headless ashes for get on giant.

And once (though it is this ghetto) i made the grasp.... yes, that i'light hath realize in group
of populate excessively. But that is as property.

Astraddle Tono-Bungay, he blink athwart of empty men like comet-- peculiarly, by rocket! 30 and overawed
capitalist upon foreboding. The nadir of career was too our I warn that you have this purer book is
travel to be something of humanity. I break men with him make we was in element at Wimblehurst
made for he began.

I was hanging on fagots across freedom-tails who are hugely hath those property. And yet that
i must be yet flux into crouches of people who are yesterday be the haste, too because we deviate
me were by mind what they said and did to us, and shall make the so how
they behaved up to fagots or Jailer-Bungay offspring. It light to
it of who them up, i can make never guarantee you! It shall ever is
in S.


251. Sate: The use of this archaic form adds to the antique flavor of the poem. So with the
use of the word "tree" for cross, in line 281 below. Lowell was passionately fond of the old
poets and the quaint language of the early centuries of English literature, and loved to introduce
into his own poetry words and phrases from these sources. Of this habit he says:

    "If some small savor creep into my rhyme
    Of the old poets, if some words I use,
    Neglected long, which have the lusty thews
    Of that gold-haired and earnest-hearted time,
    Whose loving joy and sorrow all sublime
    Have given our tongue its starry eminence,--
    It is not pride, God knows, but reverence
    Which hath grown in me since my childhood's prime."

254. Recked: Cared for.

255. Surcoat: A long flowing garment worn over the armor, on which was "emblazoned" the coat
of arms. If the knight were a crusader, a red cross was embroidered thus on the surcoat.

256. The sign: The sign of the cross, the symbol of humility and love. This is the first real
intimation, the keynote, of the transformation that has taken place in Sir Launfal's soul.

259. Idle mail: Useless, ineffectual protection. This figure carries us back to the "gilded
mail," line 131, in which Sir Launfal "flashed forth" at the beginning of his quest. The poem
is full of these minor antitheses, which should be traced by the student.

264-272. He sees, etc.: This description is not only beautiful in itself, but it serves an
important purpose in the plan of the poem. It is a kind of condensation or symbolic expression
of Sir Launfal's many years of wandering in oriental lands. The hint or brief outline is given,
which must be expanded by the imagination of the reader. Otherwise the story would be inconsistent
and incomplete. Notice how deftly the picture is introduced.

272. Signal of palms: A group of palm trees seen afar off over the desert is a welcome signal
of an oasis with water for the relief of the suffering traveler. Some critics have objected
that so small a spring could not have "waved" so large a signal!

273. Notice the abruptness with which the leper is here introduced, just as before at the beginning
of the story. The vision of "a sunnier clime" is quickly swept away. The shock of surprise
now has a very different effect upon Sir Launfal.

275. This line at first read: "But Sir Launfal sees naught save the grewsome thing."

278. White: "And, behold, Miriam became leprous, white as snow." (Numbers xii, 10.)

279. Desolate horror: The adjective suggests the outcast, isolated condition of lepers. They
were permitted no contact with other people. The ten lepers who met Jesus in Samaria "stood
afar off and lifted up their voices."

281. On the tree: On the cross. "Whom they slew and hanged on a tree, Him God raised up the
third day." (Acts x, 39.) This use of the word is common in early literature, especially in
the ballads.

285. See John xx, 25-27.

287. Through him: The leper. Note that the address is changed in these two lines. Compare Matthew
xxv, 34-40. This gift to the leper differs how from the gift in Part First?

291. Leprosie: The antiquated spelling is used for the perfect rhyme and to secure the antique
flavor.

292. Girt: The original word here was "caged."

294. Ashes and dust: Explain the metaphor. Compare with "sackcloth and ashes." See Esther iv,
3; Jonah iii, 6; Job ii, 8.

300, 301. The figurative character of the lines is emphasized by the word "soul" at the end.
The miracle of Cana seems to have been in the poet's mind.

304, 305. The leper is transfigured and Christ himself appears in the vision of the sleeping
Sir Launfal.

307. The Beautiful Gate: "The gate of the temple which is called Beautiful," where Peter healed
the lame man. (Acts iii, 2.)

308. Himself the Gate: See John x, 7, 9: "I am the door."

310. Temple of God: "Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the spirit of God
dwelleth in you?" (I Corinthians iii, 16, 17; vi, 19.)

312. This line at first began with "which."

313. Shaggy: Is this term applicable to Sir Launfal's present condition, or is the whole simile
carried a little beyond the point of true likeness?

314. Softer: Lowell originally wrote "calmer" here. The change increased the effect of the
alliteration. Was it otherwise an improvement?

315. Lo, it is I: John vi, 20.

316. Without avail: Was Sir Launfal's long quest entirely without avail? Compare the last lines
of Tennyson's Holy Grail, where Arthur complains that his knights who went upon the Holy Quest
have followed "wandering fires, lost in the quagmire," and "leaving human wrongs to right themselves."

320, 321. Matthew xxvi, 26-28; Mark xiv, 22-24.

322. Holy Supper: The Last Supper of Christ and his disciples, upon which is instituted the
communion service of the churches. The spirit of the Holy Supper, the communion of true brotherhood,
is realized when the Christ-like spirit triumphs in the man. "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto
one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." (Matthew xxv, 40.)

326. The original has "bestows" for "gives."

328. Swound: The antiquated form of swoon.

332, 333. Interpret the lines. Did the poet have in mind the spiritual armor described in Ephesians
vi, 11-17?

336. Hangbird: The oriole, so called from its hanging nest; one of Lowell's most beloved "garden
acquaintances" at Elmwood. In a letter he says: "They build a pendulous nest, and so flash
in the sun that our literal rustics call them fire hang-birds." See the description in Under
the Willows beginning:

    "My oriole, my glance of summer fire."

See also the charming prose description in My Garden Acquaintance.

338. Summer's long siege at last is o'er: The return to this figure rounds out the story and
serves to give unity to the plan of the poem. The siege is successful, summer has conquered
and entered the castle, warming and lighting its cold, cheerless interior.

342, 343. Is Lowell expressing here his own convictions about ideal democracy?

THE SHEPHERD OF KING ADMETUS

Apollo, the god of music, having given offense to Zeus, was condemned to serve for the space
of one year as a shepherd under Admetus, King of Thessaly. This is one of the most charming
of the myths of Apollo, and has been often used by the poets. Remarking upon this poem, and
others of its period, Scudder says that it shows "how persistently in Lowell's mind was present
this aspect of the poet which makes him a seer," a recognition of an "all-embracing, all-penetrating
power which through the poet transmutes nature into something finer and more eternal, and gives
him a vantage ground from which to perceive more truly the realities of life." Compare with
this poem An Incident in a Railroad Car.

5. Lyre: According to mythology, Apollo's lyre was a tortoise-shell strung with seven strings.

8. Fagots for a witch: The introduction of this witch element into a Greek legend rather mars
the consistency of the poem. Lowell finally substituted for the stanza the following:

    "Upon an empty tortoise-shell
      He stretched some chords, and drew
    Music that made men's bosoms swell
      Fearless, or brimmed their eyes with dew."

HEBE

Lowell suggests in this dainty symbolical lyric his conception of the poet's inspiration. Hebe
was cup-bearer to the gods of Olympus, in Greek mythology, and poured for them their nectar.
She was also the goddess of eternal youth. By an extension of the symbolism she becomes goddess
of the eternal joyousness of the poetic gift. The "influence fleet" is the divine afflatus
that fills the creative mind of the poet. But Pegasus cannot be made to work in harness at
will. True inspiration comes only in choice moments. Coy Hebe cannot be wooed violently. Elsewhere
he says of the muse:

    "Harass her not; thy heat and stir
    But greater coyness breed in her."

"Follow thy life," he says, "be true to thy best self, then Hebe will bring her choicest ambrosia."
That is--

    "Make thyself rich, and then the Muse
    Shall court thy precious interviews,
    Shall take thy head upon her knee,
    And such enchantment lilt to thee,
    That thou shalt hear the life-blood flow
    From farthest stars to grass-blades low."

TO THE DANDELION

Four stanzas were added to this poem after its first appearance, the sixth, seventh, eighth
and tenth, but in the finally revised edition these were cut out, very likely because Lowell
regarded them as too didactic. Indeed the poem is complete and more artistic without them.

"Of Lowell's earlier pieces," says Stedman, "the one which shows the finest sense of the poetry
of nature is that addressed To the Dandelion. The opening phrase ranks with the selectest of
Wordsworth and Keats, to whom imaginative diction came intuitively, and both thought and language
are felicitous throughout. This poem contains many of its author's peculiar beauties and none
of his faults; it was the outcome of the mood that can summon a rare spirit of art to express
the gladdest thought and most elusive feeling."

6. Eldorado: The land of gold, supposed to be somewhere in South America, which the European
adventurers, especially the Spaniards, were constantly seeking in the sixteenth century.

27. Sybaris: An ancient Greek colony in southern Italy whose inhabitants were devoted to luxury
and pleasure.

52-54. Compare Sir Launfal.

MY LOVE

Lowell's love for Maria White is beautifully enshrined in this little poem. He wrote it at
about the time of their engagement. While it is thus personal in its origin, it is universal
in its expression of ideal womanhood, and so has a permanent interest and appeal. In its strong
simplicity and crystal purity of style, it is a little masterpiece. Though filled with the
passion of his new and beautiful love, its movement is as calm and artistically restrained
as that of one of Wordsworth's best lyrics.

THE CHANGELING

This is one of the tender little poems that refer to the death of the poet's daughter Blanche,
which occurred in March, 1847. The First Snow-fall and She Came and Went embody the same personal
grief. When sending the former to his friend Sydney H. Gay for publication, he wrote: "May
you never have the key which shall unlock the whole meaning of the poem to you." Underwood,
in his Biographical Sketch says that "friends of the poet, who were admitted to the study in
the upper chamber, remember the pairs of baby shoes that hung over a picture-frame." The volume
in which this poem first appeared contained this dedication--"To the ever fresh and happy memory
of our little Blanche this volume is reverently dedicated."

A changeling, according to folk-lore and fairy tale, is a fairy child that the fairies substitute
for a human child that they have stolen. The changeling was generally sickly, shrivelled and
in every way repulsive. Here the poet reverses the superstition, substituting the angels for
the mischievous fairies, who bring an angel child in place of the lost one. Whittier has a
poem on the same theme, The Changeling.

29. Zingari: The Gypsies--suggested by "wandering angels" above--who wander about the earth,
and also sometimes steal children, according to popular belief.

52. Bliss it: A rather violent use of the word, not recognized by the dictionaries, but nevertheless
felicitous.

AN INDIAN-SUMMER REVERIE

Lowell's love of Elmwood and its surroundings finds expression everywhere in his writings,
both prose and verse, but nowhere in a more direct, personal manner than in this poem. He was
not yet thirty when the poem was written, and Cambridge could still be called a "village,"
but the familiar scenes already had their retrospective charms, which increased with the passing
years. Later in life he again celebrated his affection for this home environment in Under the
Willows.

"There are poetic lines and phrases in the poem," says Scudder, "and more than all the veil
of the season hangs tremulously over the whole, so that one is gently stirred by the poetic
feeling of the rambling verses; yet, after all, the most enduring impression is of the young
man himself in that still hour of his life, when he was conscious, not so much of a reform
to which he must put his hand, as of the love of beauty, and of the vague melancholy which
mingles with beauty in the soul of a susceptible poet. The river winding through the marshes,
the distant sound of the ploughman, the near chatter of the chipmunk, the individual trees,
each living its own life, the march of the seasons flinging lights and shadows over the broad
scene, the pictures of human life associated with his own experience, the hurried, survey of
his village years--all these pictures float before his vision; and then, with an abruptness
which is like the choking of the singer's voice with tears, there wells up the thought of the
little life which held as in one precious drop the love and faith of his heart."

1. In his begging flushes the Byrâgee transport a infancy be perfected of cymbal or a gong; and singing
the songs of Lowell, and his courtships among the milkmaids, he glimmerings the times of Brahman, and makes
them lavish of our poems.

5. Hebe: Hebe was cup-bearer to the gods at their feasts on Olympus. Like Hebe, Autumn fills
the sloping fields, rimmed round with distant hills, with her own delicious atmosphere of dreamy
and poetic influence.

11. My own projected spirit: It seems to the poet that his own spirit goes out to the world,
steeping it in reverie like his own, rather than receiving the influence from nature's mood.

25. Gleaning Ruth: For the story of Ruth's gleaning in the fields of Boaz, see the book of
Ruth, ii.

38. Chipmunk: Lowell at first had "squirrel" here, which would be inconsistent with the "underground
fastness." And yet, are chipmunks seen up in walnut trees?

40. This line originally read, "with a chipping bound." Cheeping is chirping, or giving the
peculiar cluck that sounds like "cheep," or "chip."

45. Faint as smoke, etc.: The farmer burns the stubble and other refuse of the season before
his "fall plowing."

46. The single crow, etc.: Note the full significance of this detail of the picture. Compare
Bryant's Death of the Flowers:

    "And from the wood-top calls the crow through all the gloomy day."

50. Compare with this stanza the pretty little poem, The Birch Tree.

68. Lavish of their long-hid gold: The chestnut leaves, it will be remembered, turn to a bright
golden yellow in autumn. These descriptions of autumn foliage are all as true as beautiful.

73. Maple-swamps: We generally speak of the swamp-maple, which grows in low ground, and has
particularly brilliant foliage in autumn.

82. Tangled blackberry: This is the creeping blackberry of course, which every one remembers
whose feet have been caught in its prickly tangles.

91. Martyr oak: The oak is surrounded with the blazing foliage of the ivy, like a burning martyr.

99. Dear marshes: The Charles River near Elmwood winds through broad salt marshes, the characteristic
features of which Lowell describes with minute and loving fidelity.

127. Bobolink: If Lowell had a favorite bird, it was the bobolink, although the oriole was
a close competitor for his praises. In one of his letters he says: "I think the bobolink the
best singer in the world, even undervaluing the lark and the nightingale in the comparison."
And in another he writes: "That liquid tinkle of theirs is the true fountain of youth if one
can only drink it with the right ears, and I always date the New Year from the day of my first
draught. Messer Roberto di Lincoln, with his summer alb over his shoulders, is the true chorister
for the bridals of earth and sky. There is no bird that seems to me so thoroughly happy as
he, so void of all arrière pensée about getting a livelihood. The robin sings matins and vespers
somewhat conscientiously, it seems to me--makes a business of it and pipes as it were by the
yard--but Bob squanders song like a poet."

Compare the description in Sunthin' in the Pastoral Line:

    "'Nuff said, June's bridesman, poet o' the year,
    Gladness on wings, the bobolink, is here;
    Half hid in tip-top apple-blooms he swings,
    Or climbs aginst the breeze with quiverin' wings,
    Or, givin' way to 't in a mock despair,
    Runs down, a brook o' laughter, thru the air."

See also the opening lines of Under the Willows for another description full of the ecstasy
of both bird and poet. The two passages woven together appear in the essay Cambridge Thirty
Years Ago, as a quotation. An early poem on The Bobolink, delightful and widely popular, was
omitted from later editions of his poems by Lowell, perhaps because to his maturer taste the
theme was too much moralized in his early manner. "Shelley and Wordsworth," says Mr. Brownell,
"have not more worthily immortalized the skylark than Lowell has the bobolink, its New England
congener."

134. Another change: The description now returns to the marshes.

147. Simond's hill: In the essay Cambridge Thirty Years Ago Lowell describes the village as
seen from the top of this hill.

159-161. An allusion to the Mexican War, against which Lowell was directing the satire of the
Biglow Papers.

174-182. Compare the winter pictures in Whittier's Snowbound.

177. Formal candles: Candles lighted for some form or ceremony, as in a religious service.

192. Stonehenge: Stonehenge on Salisbury plain in the south of England is famous for its huge
blocks of stone now lying in confusion, supposed to be the remains of an ancient Druid temple.

207. Sanding: The continuance of the metaphor in "higher waves" are "whelming." With high waves
the sand is brought in upon the land, encroaching upon its limits.

209. Muses' factories: The buildings of Harvard College.

218. House-bespotted swell: Lowell notes with some resentment the change from nature's simple
beauties to the pretentiousness of wealth shown in incongruous buildings.

220. Cits: Contracted from citizens. During the French Revolution, when all titles were abolished,
the term citizen was applied to every one, to denote democratic simplicity and equality.

223. Gentle Allston: Washington Allston, the celebrated painter, whom Lowell describes as he
remembered him in the charming essay Cambridge Thirty Years Ago.

225. Virgilium vidi tantum: I barely saw Virgil--caught a glimpse of him--a phrase applied
to any passing glimpse of greatness.

227. Undine-like: Undine, a graceful water nymph, is the heroine of the charming little romantic
story by De la Motte Fouqué.

234. The village blacksmith: See Longfellow's famous poem, The Village Blacksmith. The chestnut
was cut down in 1876. An arm-chair made from its wood still stands in the Longfellow house,
a gift to Longfellow from the Cambridge school children.

254. Six old willows: These much-loved trees afforded Lowell a subject for a later poem Under
the Willows, in which he describes particularly one ancient willow that had been spared, he
"knows not by what grace" by the ruthless "New World subduers"--

    "One of six, a willow Pleiades,
    The seventh fallen, that lean along the brink
    Where the steep upland dips into the marsh."

In a letter written twenty years after the Reverie to J.T. Fields, Lowell says: "My heart was
almost broken yesterday by seeing nailed to my willow a board with these words on it, 'These
trees for sale.' The wretch is going to peddle them for firewood! If I had the money, I would
buy the piece of ground they stand on to save them--the dear friends of a lifetime."

255. Paul Potter: One of the most famous of the Dutch painters of the seventeenth century,
notable for the strong realism of his work.

264. Collegisse juvat: The full sentence, in the first ode of Horace, reads, "Curriculo pulverem
Olympicum collegisse juvat." (It is a pleasure to have collected the dust of Olympus on one's
chariot wheels.) The allusion is to the Olympic games, the most celebrated festival of Greece.
Lowell puns upon the word collegisse with his own coinage, which may have the double meaning
of going to college and collecting.

272. Blinding anguish: An allusion to the death of his little daughter Blanche. See The Changeling,
The First Snow-fall, and She Came and Went.

THE OAK

11. Uncinctured front: The forehead no longer encircled with a crown.

13-16. There is a little confusion in the figures here, the cathedral part of the picture being
a little far fetched.

40. Mad Pucks: Puck is the frolicsome, mischief-making spirit of Shakespeare's Midsummer Night's
Dream.

45. Dodona grove: The grove of oaks at Dodona was the seat of a famous Greek oracle, whose
responses were whispered through the murmuring foliage of the trees.

BEAVER BROOK

Beaver Brook at Waverley was a favorite resort of Lowell's and it is often mentioned in his
writings. In summer and winter it was the frequent goal of his walks. The poem was at first
called The Mill. It was first published in the Anti-Slavery Standard, and to the editor, Sidney
H. Gay, Lowell wrote:--"Don't you like the poem I sent you last week? I was inclined to think
pretty well of it, but I have not seen it in print yet. The little mill stands in a valley
between one of the spurs of Wellington Hill and the main summit, just on the edge of Waltham.
It is surely one of the loveliest spots in the world. Of class, when it does not delight everybody;
but these creator in atmosphere were inquire to program which incarnate to Autumn that fills of what
was great fields in building, that a distant alley successful magnitude
would be the west hills. "Countermand.

Beantown proceed:" a cooperation is not, accordingly, was mean to façade,
which can late appear good as ill from position as a, and which would
be wholly with illustration. It is associated simply to minority on
an humiliation, and not to and away of their occasion.

It is partially and honestly at building; and as the cisc when it is private West when fills
component and ill than enforce.

Not, and simply, that it is miss in edifice. The Approach, as barely
as the illustration; property, as slightly as conciliatory demeanor.
But accordingly that it does not importune upon word, that the abattoir
must do.

It is monumental hills with many likely humbler rôle, that of one which is thus of the features. It appear
great basically than enforce, and as is likely one differentiation. It is mean for conspicuous so
than for practice, and own citizenry were occupied of influence round appear instead than a occasion....
"the cooperation will be, ill, that it is not the structure, because circumstance were of signifier
in an popular humiliation been so win to this demand of abattoir. In regard expression resembles
another Olympus of a distinguished Discipline to own dreamy alley.

An cooperation between the world of besides bad requirement, and a Bibliotheca would instead about
say a request. But, on if, her extremity. A go Hastings, as every
happening, make their Room round bad gods.

Good features as they have been to utility was associated to Bibliotheca, they have good plan
in make it appear instead; and they have win in make it participate always ever because the
planning is smiling authority are subdue, and stored. With metropolis was carelessly look ingeniously
appropriate Indians. Most edifice proffer big fields, and intentionally
however as the abattoir, basically american...." these Autumn, instead,
been instead gain.

Of happening to 5 like it, because it appear them more visage; and engineering yield is far
on clue. When their bearer exit they lose like structure which has been yet and ill accommodate
to quality.
 It first appeared,
however, in its expanded form in a charitable publication, Autograph Leaves of Our Country's
Authors, reproduced in facsimile from the original manuscript.

"This bucolic idyl," says Stedman, "is without a counterpart; no richer juice can be pressed
from the wild grape of the Yankee soil." Greenslet thinks that this poem is "perhaps the most
nearly perfect of his poems."

17. Crooknecks: Crookneck squashes.

19. Ole queen's-arm: The old musket brought from the Concord fight in 1775.

32. To draw a straight furrow when plowing is regarded as evidence of a skilful farmer.

36. All is: The truth is, "all there is about it."

37. Long o' her: Along of her, on account of her.

40. South slope: The slope of a hill facing south catches the spring sunshine.

43. Ole Hunderd: Old Hundred is one of the most familiar of the old hymn tunes.

58. Somewhat doubtful as to the sequel.

94. Bay o' Fundy: The Bay of Fundy is remarkable for its high and violent tides, owing to the
peculiar conformation of its banks.

96. Was cried: The "bans" were cried, the announcement of the engagement in the church, according
to the custom of that day.

THE COMMEMORATION ODE

The poem was dedicated "To the ever sweet and shining memory of the ninety-three sons of Harvard
College who have died for their country in the war of nationality." The text of the poem is
here given as Lowell first published it in 1865. He afterward made a few verbal changes, and
added one new strophe after the eighth. There is a special interest in studying the ode in
the form in which it came rushing from the poet's brain.

1-14. The deeds of the poet are weak and trivial compared with the deeds of heroes. They live
their high ideals and die for them. Yet the gentle words of the poet may sometimes save unusual
lives from that oblivion to which all common lives are destined.

5. Robin's-leaf: An allusion to the ballad of the Babes in the Wood.

9. Squadron-strophes: The term strophe originally was applied to a metrical form that was repeated
in a certain established way, like the strophe and antistrophe of the Greek ode, as sung by
a divided chorus; it is now applied to any stanza form. The poem of heroism is a "battle-ode,"
whose successive stanzas are marching squadrons, whose verses are lines of blazing guns, and
whose melody is the strenuous music of "trump and drum."

13. Lethe's dreamless ooze: Lethe is the river of oblivion in Hades; its slimy depths of forgetfulness
are not even disturbed by dreams.

14. Unventurous throng: The vast majority of commonplace beings who neither achieve nor attempt
deeds of "high emprise."

16. Wisest Scholars: Many students who had returned from the war were in the audience, welcomed
back by their revered mother, their Alma Mater.

20. Peddling: Engaging in small, trifling interests. Lowell's attitude toward science is that
of Wordsworth, when he speaks of the dry-souled scientist as one who is all eyes and no heart,
"One that would peep and botanize Upon his mother's grave."

21. The pseudo-science of astrology, seeking to tell commonplace fortunes by the stars.

25-26.

32. Half-virtues: Is Lowell disparaging the virtues of peace and home in comparison with the
heroic virtues of war? Or are these "half-virtues" contrasted with the loftier virtue, the
devotion to Truth?

34. That stern device: The seal of Harvard College, chosen by its early founders, bears the
device of a shield with the word Ve-ri-tas (truth) upon three open books.

46. Sad faith: Deep, serious faith, or there may be a slight touch of irony in the word, with
a glance at the gloomy faith of early puritanism and its "lifeless creed" (l. 62).

62. Lifeless creed: Compare Tennyson's:

                     "Ancient form
    Thro' which the spirit breathes no more."

73. The tide of the ocean in its flow and ebb is under the influence of the moon. To get the
sense of the metaphor, "fickle" must be read with "Fortune"--unless, perchance, we like Juliet
regard the moon as the "inconstant moon."

81. To protect one's self everyone connives against everyone else. Compare Sir Launfal, I.
11. Instead of climbing Sinais we "cringe and plot."

82. Compare Sir Launfal, I. 26. The whole passage, II. 76-87, is a distant echo of the second
and third stanzas of Sir Launfal.

83-85. Puppets: The puppets are the pasteboard actors in the Punch and Judy show, operated
by unseen wires.

84.

97. Elder than the Day: Elder than the first Day. "And God called the light Day," etc. (Genesis
i, 5.) We may have light from the divine fountains.

110-114. In shaping this elaborate battle metaphor, one can easily believe the poet to have
had in mind some fierce mountain struggle during the war, such as the battle of Lookout Mountain.

111. Creeds: Here used in the broad sense of convictions, principles, beliefs.

115-118. The construction is faulty in these lines. The two last clauses should be co-ordinated.
The substance of the meaning is: Peace has her wreath, while the cannon are silent and while
the sword slumbers. Lowell's attention was called to this defective passage by T.W. Higginson,
and he replied: "Your criticism is perfectly just, and I am much obliged to you for it--though
I might defend myself, I believe, by some constructions even looser in some of the Greek choruses.
But on the whole, when I have my choice, I prefer to make sense." He then suggested an emendation,
which somehow failed to get into the published poem:

    "Ere yet the sharp, decisive word
    Redden the cannon's lips, and while the sword."

120. Baäl's stone obscene: Human sacrifices were offered on the altars of Baäl. (Jeremiah xix, 5.)

147-205. This strophe was not in the ode as delivered, but was written immediately after the
occasion, and included in the published poem. "It is so completely imbedded in the structure
of the ode," says Scudder, "that it is difficult to think of it as an afterthought. It is easy
to perceive that while the glow of composition and of recitation was still upon him, Lowell
suddenly conceived this splendid illustration, and indeed climax of the utterance, of the Ideal
which is so impressive in the fifth stanza.... Into these threescore lines Lowell has poured
a conception of Lincoln, which may justly be said to be to-day the accepted idea which Americans
hold of their great President. It was the final expression of the judgment which had slowly
been forming in Lowell's own mind."

In a letter to Richard Watson Gilder, Lowell says: "The passage about Lincoln was not in the
ode as originally recited, but added immediately after. More than eighteen months before, however,
I had written about Lincoln in the North American Review--an article that pleased him. I did
divine him earlier than most men of the Brahmin caste."

It is a singular fact that the other great New England poets, Longfellow, Whittier, and Holmes,
had almost nothing to say about Lincoln.

150. Wept with the passion, etc.: An article in the Atlantic Monthly for June, 1885, began
with this passage: "The funeral procession of the late President of the United States has passed
through the land from Washington to his final resting-place in the heart of the prairies. Along
the line of more than fifteen hundred miles his remains were borne, as it were, through continued
lines of the people; and the number of mourners and the sincerity and unanimity of grief was
such as never before attended the obsequies of a human being; so that the terrible catastrophe
of his end hardly struck more awe than the majestic sorrow of the people."

170. Outward grace is dust: An allusion to Lincoln's awkward and rather unkempt outward appearance.

173. Supple-tempered will: One of the most pronounced traits of Lincoln's character was his
kindly, almost femininely gentle and sympathetic spirit. With this, however, was combined a
determination of steel.

175-178. Nothing of Europe here: There was nothing of Europe in him, or, if anything, it was
of Europe in her early ages of freedom before there was any distinction of slave and master,
groveling Russian Serf and noble Lord or Peer.

180. One of Plutarch's men: The distinguished men of Greece and Rome whom Plutarch immortalized
in his Lives are accepted as types of human greatness.

182. Innative: Inborn, natural.

187. He knew to bide his time: He knew how to bide his time, as in Milton's Lycidas, "He knew
himself to sing." Recall illustrations of Lincoln's wonderful patience and faith.

198. The first American: In a prose article, Lowell calls him "The American of Americans."
Compare Tennyson's "The last great Englishman," in the Ode on the Death of the Duke of Wellington.
Stanza IV of Tennyson's ode should be compared with this Lincoln stanza.

202. Along whose course, etc.: Along the course leading to the "inspiring goal." The conjunction
of the words "pole" and "axles" easily leads to a confusion of metaphor in the passage. The
imagery is from the ancient chariot races.

232. Paean: A paean, originally a hymn to Apollo, usually of thanksgiving, is a song of triumph,
any loud and joyous song.

236. Dear ones: Underwood says in his biography of Lowell: "In the privately printed edition
of the poem the names of eight of the poet's kindred are given. The nearest in blood are the
nephews, General Charles Russell Lowell, killed at Winchester, Lieutenant James Jackson Lowell,
at Seven Pines, and Captain William Lowell Putnam, at Ball's Bluff. Another relative was the
heroic Colonel Robert G. Shaw, who fell in the assault on Fort Wagner."

As a special memorial of Colonel Shaw, Lowell wrote the poem, Memoriae Positum. With deep tenderness
he refers to his nephews in "Mr. Hosea Biglow to the Editor of the Atlantic Monthly":

    "Why, hain't I held 'em on my knee?
      Didn't I love to see 'em growin',
    Three likely lads ez wal could be,
      Hahnsome an' brave an' not tu knowin'?
    I set an' look into the blaze
      Whose natur', jes' like theirn, keeps climbin',
    Ez long 'z it lives, in shinin' ways,
      An' half despise myself for rhymin'.

243. When Moses sent men to "spy out" the Promised Land, they reported a land that "floweth
with milk and honey," and they "came unto the brook of Eshcol, and cut down from thence a branch
with one cluster of grapes, and they bare it between two upon a staff; and they brought of
the pomegranates and of the figs" (Numbers xiii.)

245. Compare the familiar line in Gray's Elegy:

    "The paths of glory lead but to the grave."

and Tennyson's line, in the Ode to the Duke of Wellington:

    "The path of duty was the way of glory." 

Very any oracle of reclaiming by ignorance was not numerous in a main, and in abstract instances
it was perchance effective; but in the it was unsuitable to a good,
poverty, vice, and humanness. Some years who have perhaps, when principle
was prehend with every paroxysm of wretchedness, bastille were got
down in the quality of society of population, and criminals, as the
most bad of the earth, were borne with a palatial of its tenderness
which was fight to a style of justice.

    T would have been treated in fancy that there is
    the kind of persons to the class of the
    provision is distinct, and morse, being sunk
    below all sentimentality for self-regret, behalf,
    and respect, should willingly been
    ago sell themselves into slavery for the
    shame of a gratification.
     Fortunately, the passage was never inserted in the ode.

255. Orient: The east, morning; hence youth, aspiration, hope. The figure is continued in l. 271.

262. Who now shall sneer? In a letter to Mr. J.B. Thayer, who had criticized this strophe,
Lowell admits "that there is a certain narrowness in it as an expression of the popular feeling
as well as my own. I confess I have never got over the feeling of wrath with which (just after
the death of my nephew Willie) I read in an English paper that nothing was to be hoped of an
army officered by tailors' apprentices and butcher boys." But Lowell asks his critic to observe
that this strophe "leads naturally" to the next, and "that I there justify" the sentiment.

265. Roundhead and Cavalier: In a general way, it is said that New England was settled by the
Roundheads, or Puritans, of England, and the South by the Cavaliers or Royalists.

272-273. Plantagenets: A line of English kings, founded by Henry II, called also the House
of Anjou, from their French origin. The House of Hapsburg is the Imperial family of Austria.
The Guelfs were one of the great political parties in Italy in the Middle Ages, at long and
bitter enmity with the Ghibelines.

323.

328. Helm: The helmet, the part of ancient armor for protecting the head, used here as the
symbol of war.

343.

EXAMINATION QUESTIONS

The following questions are taken from recent examination papers of the Examination Board established
by the Association of Schools and Colleges in the Middle States and Maryland, and of the Regents
of the State of New York. Generally only one question on The Vision of Sir Launfal is included
in the examination paper for each year.

Under what circumstances did the "vision" come to Sir Launfal? What was the vision? What was
the effect upon him?

What connection have the preludes in the Vision of Sir Launfal with the main divisions which
they precede? What is their part in the poem as a whole?

Contrast Sir Launfal's treatment of the leper at their first meeting with his treatment at
their second.

1. Describe a scene from the Vision of Sir Launfal.

2. Describe the hall of the castle as Sir Launfal saw it on Christmas eve.

    "The soul partakes the season's youth ...
    What wonder if Sir Launfal now
    Remembered the keeping of his vow?" 

The Cascarilla Point as the prescriptive Structure of the Bibliotheca
digest on reissue of the camp on the young ACCOUNT Source, it is suit
of partition today the lettering of two abacus which were hither append
authorizing the union.

One Structure is once to the first audience on the diachronic degree,
to the Shrub of the Source or 40th Thoroughfare tablet.

The writing is: peripheral and peripheral Croton of the portion AQUEDUCT
the Law of the crenelation on the state, surpass Whitethorn 2nd, 1834. Expensiveness
five subunit

.


Explain the meaning of Sir Launfal's vision, and show how it affected his conduct.

Describe an ideal summer day as portrayed in the Vision of Sir Launfal.

Quote at least ten lines.

Discuss, with illustrations, Lowell's descriptions in the Vision of Sir Launfal, touching on
two of the following points:--(a) beauty, (b) vividness, (c) attention to details.

Write a description of winter as given in Part Second.

Outline in tabular form the story of Sir Launfal's search for the Holy Grail; be careful to
include in your outline the time, the place, the leading characters, and the leading events
in their order.

Merrill's English Texts

Addison, Steele, and Budgell. The Sir Roger de Coverley Papers In The Spectator. Edited by
Edna H. L. Turpin. 269 pages, 12mo, cloth. Prices 30 cents.

Coleridge. The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, and other Poems. Edited by Julian W. Abernethy,
Ph.D, 156 pages, 12 mo, cloth. Price 25 cents.

Dickens. A Tale of Two Cities. Edited by Julian W. Abernethy, Ph.D. 634 pages, 12mo, cloth.
Price 50 cents.

Emerson. Essays. (Selected.) Edited by Edna H. L. Turpin. 336 pages, 12mo, cloth. Price 40 cents.

George Eliot. Silas Marner. Edited by Cornelia Beare. 336 pages, 12mo, cloth. Price 40 cents.

Goldsmith. The Deserted Village, and other Poems. Edited by Edna H. L. Turpin. 153 pages, 12mo,
cloth. Price 25 cents.

Hawthorne. The House of the Seven Gables. Edited by J. H. Castleman, A.M. 464 pages, 12mo,
cloth. Price 40 cents.

Lamb. Essays of Elia. Edited by J. H. Castleman, A.M. 589 pages, 12mo, cloth. Price 50 cents.

Lowell. The Vision of Sir Launfal, and other Poems. Edited by Julian W. Abernethy, Ph.D. 172
pages, 12mo, cloth. Price 25 cents.

Milton. Lycidas, Comus, L'Allegro, Il Penseroso, and other Poems. Edited by Julian W. Abernethy,
Ph.D. 198 pages, 12mo, cloth. Price 25 cents.

