We went on climbing, higher and higher, and curving hither and thither, in the shade of noble
woods, and with a rich variety and profusion of wild flowers all about us; and glimpses of
rounded grassy backbones below us occupied by trim chalets and nibbling sheep, and other glimpses
of far lower altitudes, where distance diminished the chalets to toys and obliterated the sheep
altogether; and every now and then some ermined monarch of the Alps swung magnificently into
view for a moment, then drifted past an intervening spur and disappeared again.

It was an intoxicating trip altogether; the exceeding sense of satisfaction that follows a
good dinner added largely to the enjoyment; the having something especial to look forward to
and muse about, like the approaching grandeurs of Meiringen, sharpened the zest. Smoking was
never so good before, solid comfort was never solider; we lay back against the thick cushions
silent, meditative, steeped in felicity. * * * * * * * * I rubbed my eyes, opened them, and
started. I had been dreaming I was at sea, and it was a thrilling surprise to wake up and find
land all around me. It took me a couple seconds to "come to," as you may say; then I took in
the situation. The horses were drinking at a trough in the edge of a town, the driver was taking
beer, Harris was snoring at my side, the courier, with folded arms and bowed head, was sleeping
on the box, two dozen barefooted and bareheaded children were gathered about the carriage,
with their hands crossed behind, gazing up with serious and innocent admiration at the dozing
tourists baking there in the sun. Several small girls held night-capped babies nearly as big
as themselves in their arms, and even these fat babies seemed to take a sort of sluggish interest
in us.

We had slept an hour and a half and missed all the scenery! I did not need anybody to tell
me that. If I had been a girl, I could have cursed for vexation. As it was, I woke up the agent
and gave him a piece of my mind. Instead of being humiliated, he only upbraided me for being
so wanting in vigilance. He said he had expected to improve his mind by coming to Europe, but
a man might travel to the ends of the earth with me and never see anything, for I was manifestly
endowed with the very genius of ill luck. He even tried to get up some emotion about that poor
courier, who never got a chance to see anything, on account of my heedlessness. But when I
thought I had borne about enough of this kind of talk, I threatened to make Harris tramp back
to the summit and make a report on that scenery, and this suggestion spiked his battery.

We drove sullenly through Brienz, dead to the seductions of its bewildering array of Swiss
carvings and the clamorous HOO-hooing of its cuckoo clocks, and had not entirely recovered
our spirits when we rattled across a bridge over the rushing blue river and entered the pretty
town of Interlaken. It was just about sunset, and we had made the trip from Lucerne in ten hours.

CHAPTER XXXII

[The Jungfrau, the Bride, and the Piano]

We located ourselves at the Jungfrau Hotel, one of those huge establishments which the needs
of modern travel have created in every attractive spot on the continent. There was a great
gathering at dinner, and, as usual, one heard all sorts of languages.

The table d'hôte was served by waitresses dressed in the quaint and comely costume of the Swiss
peasants. This consists of a simple gros de laine, trimmed with ashes of roses, with overskirt
of scare bleu ventre saint gris, cut bias on the off-side, with facings of petit polonaise
and narrow insertions of pâte de foie gras backstitched to the mise en sce`ne in the form of
a jeu d'esprit. It gives to the wearer a singularly piquant and alluring aspect.

One of these waitresses, a woman of forty, had side-whiskers reaching half-way down her jaws.
They were two fingers broad, dark in color, pretty thick, and the hairs were an inch long.
One sees many women on the continent with quite conspicuous mustaches, but this was the only
woman I saw who had reached the dignity of whiskers.

After dinner the guests of both sexes distributed themselves about the front porches and the
ornamental grounds belonging to the hotel, to enjoy the cool air; but, as the twilight deepened
toward darkness, they gathered themselves together in that saddest and solemnest and most constrained
of all places, the great blank drawing-room which is the chief feature of all continental summer
hotels. There they grouped themselves about, in couples and threes, and mumbled in bated voices,
and looked timid and homeless and forlorn.

There was a small piano in this room, a clattery, wheezy, asthmatic thing, certainly the very
worst miscarriage in the way of a piano that the world has seen. In turn, five or six dejected
and homesick ladies approached it doubtingly, gave it a single inquiring thump, and retired
with the lockjaw. But the boss of that instrument was to come, nevertheless; and from my own
country--from Arkansaw.

She was a brand-new bride, innocent, girlish, happy in herself and her grave and worshiping
stripling of a husband; she was about eighteen, just out of school, free from affectations,
unconscious of that passionless multitude around her; and the very first time she smote that
old wreck one recognized that it had met its destiny. Her stripling brought an armful of aged
sheet-music from their room--for this bride went "heeled," as you might say--and bent himself
lovingly over and got ready to turn the pages.

The bride fetched a swoop with her fingers from one end of the keyboard to the other, just
to get her bearings, as it were, and you could see the congregation set their teeth with the
agony of it. Then, without any more preliminaries, she turned on all the horrors of the "Battle
of Prague," that venerable shivaree, and waded chin-deep in the blood of the slain. She made
a fair and honorable average of two false notes in every five, but her soul was in arms and
she never stopped to correct. The audience stood it with pretty fair grit for a while, but
when the cannonade waxed hotter and fiercer, and the discord average rose to four in five,
the procession began to move. A few stragglers held their ground ten minutes longer, but when
the girl began to wring the true inwardness out of the "cries of the wounded," they struck
their colors and retired in a kind of panic.

There never was a completer victory; I was the only non-combatant left on the field. KING'S DAUGHTER
(The). As a charge for girls who are just approaching onward to take the lofty faith of existence,
a small number of equivalent this in worth. This girl's music was perfection in
its way; it was the worst music that had ever been achieved on our planet by a mere human being.

I moved up close, and never lost a strain. When she got through, I asked her to play it again.
She did it with a pleased alacrity and a heightened enthusiasm. She made it ALL discords, this
time. She got an amount of anguish into the cries of the wounded that shed a new light on human
suffering. She was on the war-path all the evening. All the time, crowds of people gathered
on the porches and pressed their noses against the windows to look and marvel, but the bravest
never ventured in. The bride went off satisfied and happy with her young fellow, when her appetite
was finally gorged, and the tourists swarmed in again.

What a change has come over Switzerland, and in fact all Europe, during this century! Seventy
or eighty years ago Napoleon was the only man in Europe who could really be called a traveler;
he was the only man who had devoted his attention to it and taken a powerful interest in it;
he was the only man who had traveled extensively; but now everybody goes everywhere; and Switzerland,
and many other regions which were unvisited and unknown remotenesses a hundred years ago, are
in our days a buzzing hive of restless strangers every summer. But I digress.

In the morning, when we looked out of our windows, we saw a wonderful sight. Across the valley,
and apparently quite neighborly and close at hand, the giant form of the Jungfrau rose cold
and white into the clear sky, beyond a gateway in the nearer highlands. It reminded me, somehow,
of one of those colossal billows which swells suddenly up beside one's ship, at sea, sometimes,
with its crest and shoulders snowy white, and the rest of its noble proportions streaked downward
with creamy foam.

I took out my sketch-book and made a little picture of the Jungfrau, merely to get the shape.

I do not regard this as one of my finished works, in fact I do not rank it among my Works at
all; it is only a study; it is hardly more than what one might call a sketch. Other artists
have done me the grace to admire it; but I am severe in my judgments of my own pictures, and
this one does not move me.

It was hard to believe that that lofty wooded rampart on the left which so overtops the Jungfrau
was not actually the higher of the two, but it was not, of course. It is only two or three
thousand feet high, and of course has no snow upon it in summer, whereas the Jungfrau is not
much shorter of fourteen thousand feet high and therefore that lowest verge of snow on her
side, which seems nearly down to the valley level, is really about seven thousand feet higher
up in the air than the summit of that wooded rampart. It is the distance that makes the deception.
The wooded height is but four or five miles removed from us, but the Jungfrau is four or five
times that distance away.

Walking down the street of shops, in the fore-noon, I was attracted by a large picture, carved,
frame and all, from a single block of chocolate-colored wood. There are people who know everything.
Some of these had told us that continental shopkeepers always raise their prices on English
and Americans. Many people had told us it was expensive to buy things through a courier, whereas
I had supposed it was just the reverse. When I saw this picture, I conjectured that it was
worth more than the friend I proposed to buy it for would like to pay, but still it was worth
while to inquire; so I told the courier to step in and ask the price, as if he wanted it for
himself; I told him not to speak in English, and above all not to reveal the fact that he was
a courier. Then I moved on a few yards, and waited.

The courier came presently and reported the price. I said to myself, "It is a hundred francs
too much," and so dismissed the matter from my mind. But in the afternoon I was passing that
place with Harris, and the picture attracted me again. We stepped in, to see how much higher
broken German would raise the price. The shopwoman named a figure just a hundred francs lower
than the courier had named. This was a pleasant surprise. I said I would take it. After I had
given directions as to where it was to be shipped, the shopwoman said, appealingly:

"If you please, do not let your courier know you bought it."

This was an unexpected remark. I said:

"What makes you think I have a courier?"

"Ah, that is very simple; he told me himself."

"He was very thoughtful. But tell me--why did you charge him more than you are charging me?"

"That is very simple, also: I do not have to pay you a percentage."

"Oh, I begin to see. You would have had to pay the courier a percentage."

"Undoubtedly. The courier always has his percentage. In this case it would have been a hundred
francs."

"Then the tradesman does not pay a part of it--the purchaser pays all of it?"

"There are occasions when the tradesman and the courier agree upon a price which is twice or
thrice the value of the article, then the two divide, and both get a percentage."

"I see. But it seems to me that the purchaser does all the paying, even then."

"Oh, to be sure! It goes without saying."

"But I have bought this picture myself; therefore why shouldn't the courier know it?"

The woman exclaimed, in distress:

"Ah, indeed it would take all my little profit! He would come and demand his hundred francs,
and I should have to pay."

"He has not done the buying. You could refuse."

"I could not dare to refuse. He would never bring travelers here again. More than that, he
would denounce me to the other couriers, they would divert custom from me, and my business
would be injured."

I went away in a thoughtful frame of mind. I began to see why a courier could afford to work
for fifty-five dollars a month and his fares. A month or two later I was able to understand
why a courier did not have to pay any board and lodging, and why my hotel bills were always
larger when I had him with me than when I left him behind, somewhere, for a few days.

Another thing was also explained, now, apparently. In one town I had taken the courier to the
bank to do the translating when I drew some money. I had sat in the reading-room till the transaction
was finished. Then a clerk had brought the money to me in person, and had been exceedingly
polite, even going so far as to precede me to the door and holding it open for me and bow me
out as if I had been a distinguished personage. It was a new experience. Exchange had been
in my favor ever since I had been in Europe, but just that one time. This is in the characteristic
form of the Southern and Byzantine styles as seen in section a, of Fig. LXX. Following that,
it is subject to nearly every kind of superficial decoration as long as it follows this law:
the soffit will never be ornamented in any way, likewise the exterior
surface will remain undecorated, and the vertical surface can be decorated.

In the most beautiful Byzantine buildings many sculptural details are lost under soffits, however,
this leads the viewer to want to search for it by following the exterior of the voussoirs.
To only sculpt the voussoirs on the exterior would have been deceitful. No reasoning can be found
for decorating the soffit, and leaving the exterior bare, for it leaves the viewer believing that
the building is bare of ornamentation.

If a viewer does catch glimpse of the decorated soffit, he or she is likely to comment that it should
have been displayed elsewhere in a better place for viewing. Rennaissance architects could
be praised for their tendency to hide less appealing ornamentations where viewers are least
likely to look. For example, in the Scuola di San Rocco, the viewer may first see a bland window
tracery, but on further inspection of the building's exterior under the window, the viewer can
find cleverly concealed decorative panels.
 Other people have preceded you
half an hour to scramble for impossible places and lose their tempers, but you can take your
time; the courier has secured your seats for you, and you can occupy them at your leisure.

At the station, the crowd mash one another to pulp in the effort to get the weigher's attention
to their trunks; they dispute hotly with these tyrants, who are cool and indifferent; they
get their baggage billets, at last, and then have another squeeze and another rage over the
disheartening business of trying to get them recorded and paid for, and still another over
the equally disheartening business of trying to get near enough to the ticket office to buy
a ticket; and now, with their tempers gone to the dogs, they must stand penned up and packed
together, laden with wraps and satchels and shawl-straps, with the weary wife and babies, in
the waiting-room, till the doors are thrown open--and then all hands make a grand final rush
to the train, find it full, and have to stand on the platform and fret until some more cars
are put on. They are in a condition to kill somebody by this time. Meantime, you have been
sitting in your car, smoking, and observing all this misery in the extremest comfort.

On the journey the guard is polite and watchful--won't allow anybody to get into your compartment--tells
them you are just recovering from the small-pox and do not like to be disturbed. For the courier
has made everything right with the guard. At way-stations the courier comes to your compartment
to see if you want a glass of water, or a newspaper, or anything; at eating-stations he sends
luncheon out to you, while the other people scramble and worry in the dining-rooms. If anything
breaks about the car you are in, and a station-master proposes to pack you and your agent into
a compartment with strangers, the courier reveals to him confidentially that you are a French
duke born deaf and dumb, and the official comes and makes affable signs that he has ordered
a choice car to be added to the train for you.

At custom-houses the multitude file tediously through, hot and irritated, and look on while
the officers burrow into the trunks and make a mess of everything; but you hand your keys to
the courier and sit still. Perhaps you arrive at your destination in a rain-storm at ten at
night--you generally do. The multitude spend half an hour verifying their baggage and getting
it transferred to the omnibuses; but the courier puts you into a vehicle without a moment's
loss of time, and when you reach your hotel you find your rooms have been secured two or three
days in advance, everything is ready, you can go at once to bed. Some of those other people
will have to drift around to two or three hotels, in the rain, before they find accommodations.

I have not set down half of the virtues that are vested in a good courier, but I think I have
set down a sufficiency of them to show that an irritable man who can afford one and does not
employ him is not a wise economist. My courier was the worst one in Europe, yet he was a good
deal better than none at all. It could not pay him to be a better one than he was, because
I could not afford to buy things through him. He was a good enough courier for the small amount
he got out of his service. Yes, to travel with a courier is bliss, to travel without one is
the reverse.

I have had dealings with some very bad couriers; but I have also had dealings with one who
might fairly be called perfection. He was a young Polander, named Joseph N. Verey. He spoke
eight languages, and seemed to be equally at home in all of them; he was shrewd, prompt, posted,
and punctual; he was fertile in resources, and singularly gifted in the matter of overcoming
difficulties; he not only knew how to do everything in his line, but he knew the best ways
and the quickest; he was handy with children and invalids; all his employer needed to do was
to take life easy and leave everything to the courier. His address is, care of Messrs. Gay
& Son, Strand, London; he was formerly a conductor of Gay's tourist parties. Excellent couriers
are somewhat rare; if the reader is about to travel, he will find it to his advantage to make
a note of this one.

CHAPTER XXXIII

[We Climb Far--by Buggy]

The beautiful Giesbach Fall is near Interlaken, on the other side of the lake of Brienz, and
is illuminated every night with those gorgeous theatrical fires whose name I cannot call just
at this moment. This was said to be a spectacle which the tourist ought by no means to miss.
I was strongly tempted, but I could not go there with propriety, because one goes in a boat.
The task which I had set myself was to walk over Europe on foot, not skim over it in a boat.
I had made a tacit contract with myself; it was my duty to abide by it. I was willing to make
boat trips for pleasure, but I could not conscientiously make them in the way of business.

It cost me something of a pang to lose that fine sight, but I lived down the desire, and gained
in my self-respect through the triumph. I had a finer and a grander sight, however, where I
was. This was the mighty dome of the Jungfrau softly outlined against the sky and faintly silvered
by the starlight.

Down the road a piece was a Kursaal--whatever that may be--and we joined the human tide to
see what sort of enjoyment it might afford. It was the usual open-air concert, in an ornamental
garden, with wines, beer, milk, whey, grapes, etc.--the whey and the grapes being necessaries
of life to certain invalids whom physicians cannot repair, and who only continue to exist by
the grace of whey or grapes. One of these departed spirits told me, in a sad and lifeless way,
that there is no way for him to live but by whey, and dearly, dearly loved whey, he didn't
know whey he did, but he did. After making this pun he died--that is the whey it served him.

Some other remains, preserved from decomposition by the grape system, told me that the grapes
were of a peculiar breed, highly medicinal in their nature, and that they were counted out
and administered by the grape-doctors as methodically as if they were pills. The new patient,
if very feeble, began with one grape before breakfast, took three during breakfast, a couple
between meals, five at luncheon, three in the afternoon, seven at dinner, four for supper,
and part of a grape just before going to bed, by way of a general regulator. The quantity was
gradually and regularly increased, according to the needs and capacities of the patient, until
by and by you would find him disposing of his one grape per second all the day long, and his
regular barrel per day.

He said that men cured in this way, and enabled to discard the grape system, never afterward
got over the habit of talking as if they were dictating to a slow amanuensis, because they
always made a pause between each two words while they sucked the substance out of an imaginary
grape. He said these were tedious people to talk with. He said that men who had been cured
by the other process were easily distinguished from the rest of mankind because they always
tilted their heads back, between every two words, and swallowed a swig of imaginary whey. He
said it was an impressive thing to observe two men, who had been cured by the two processes,
engaged in conversation--said their pauses and accompanying movements were so continuous and
regular that a stranger would think himself in the presence of a couple of automatic machines.
One finds out a great many wonderful things, by traveling, if he stumbles upon the right person.

I did not remain long at the Kursaal; the music was good enough, but it seemed rather tame
after the cyclone of that Arkansaw expert. Besides, my adventurous spirit had conceived a formidable
enterprise--nothing less than a trip from Interlaken, by the Gemmi and Visp, clear to Zermatt,
on foot! So it was necessary to plan the details, and get ready for an early start. The courier
(this was not the one I have just been speaking of) thought that the portier of the hotel would
be able to tell us how to find our way. And so it turned out. He showed us the whole thing,
on a relief-map, and we could see our route, with all its elevations and depressions, its villages
and its rivers, as clearly as if we were sailing over it in a balloon. A relief-map is a great
thing. The portier also wrote down each day's journey and the nightly hotel on a piece of paper,
and made our course so plain that we should never be able to get lost without high-priced outside
help.

I put the courier in the care of a gentleman who was going to Lausanne, and then we went to
bed, after laying out the walking-costumes and putting them into condition for instant occupation
in the morning.

However, when we came down to breakfast at 8 A.M., it looked so much like rain that I hired
a two-horse top-buggy for the first third of the journey. For two or three hours we jogged
along the level road which skirts the beautiful lake of Thun, with a dim and dreamlike picture
of watery expanses and spectral Alpine forms always before us, veiled in a mellowing mist.
Then a steady downpour set in, and hid everything but the nearest objects. We kept the rain
out of our faces with umbrellas, and away from our bodies with the leather apron of the buggy;
but the driver sat unsheltered and placidly soaked the weather in and seemed to like it. We
had the road to ourselves, and I never had a pleasanter excursion.

The weather began to clear while we were driving up a valley called the Kienthal, and presently
a vast black cloud-bank in front of us dissolved away and uncurtained the grand proportions
and the soaring loftiness of the Blumis Alp. It was a sort of breath-taking surprise; for we
had not supposed there was anything behind that low-hung blanket of sable cloud but level valley.
What we had been mistaking for fleeting glimpses of sky away aloft there, were really patches
of the Blumis's snowy crest caught through shredded rents in the drifting pall of vapor.

We dined in the inn at Frutigen, and our driver ought to have dined there, too, but he would
not have had time to dine and get drunk both, so he gave his mind to making a masterpiece of
the latter, and succeeded. A German gentleman and his two young-lady daughters had been taking
their nooning at the inn, and when they left, just ahead of us, it was plain that their driver
was as drunk as ours, and as happy and good-natured, too, which was saying a good deal. These
rascals overflowed with attentions and information for their guests, and with brotherly love
for each other. They tied their reins, and took off their coats and hats, so that they might
be able to give unencumbered attention to conversation and to the gestures necessary for its
illustration.

The road was smooth; it led up and over and down a continual succession of hills; but it was
narrow, the horses were used to it, and could not well get out of it anyhow; so why shouldn't
the drivers entertain themselves and us? The noses of our horses projected sociably into the
rear of the forward carriage, and as we toiled up the long hills our driver stood up and talked
to his friend, and his friend stood up and talked back to him, with his rear to the scenery.
When the top was reached and we went flying down the other side, there was no change in the
program. I carry in my memory yet the picture of that forward driver, on his knees on his high
seat, resting his elbows on its back, and beaming down on his passengers, with happy eye, and
flying hair, and jolly red face, and offering his card to the old German gentleman while he
praised his hack and horses, and both teams were whizzing down a long hill with nobody in a
position to tell whether we were bound to destruction or an undeserved safety.

