And after that he had opened the tabernacle, and incensed the monstrance that was in it, and
shown the fair wafer to the people, and hid it again behind the veil of veils, he began to
speak to the people, desiring to speak to them of the wrath of God.  But the beauty of the
white flowers troubled him, and their odour was sweet in his nostrils, and there came another
word into his lips, and he spake not of the wrath of God, but of the God whose name is Love.
And why he so spake, he knew not.

And when he had finished his word the people wept, and the Priest went back to the sacristy,
and his eyes were full of tears.  And the deacons came in and began to unrobe him, and took
from him the alb and the girdle, the maniple and the stole.  And he stood as one in a dream.

And after that they had unrobed him, he looked at them and said, 'What are the flowers that
stand on the altar, and whence do they come?'

And they answered him, 'What flowers they are we cannot tell, but they come from the corner
of the Fullers' Field.'  And the Priest trembled, and returned to his own house and prayed.
The Fauns also he blessed, and the little things that dance in the woodland, and the bright-eyed
things that peer through the leaves.  All the things in God's world he blessed, and the people
were filled with joy and wonder.  Yet never again in the corner of the Fullers' Field grew
flowers of any kind, but the field remained barren even as before.  Nor came the Sea-folk into
the bay as they had been wont to do, for they went to another part of the sea.

THE STAR-CHILD

[TO MISS MARGOT TENNANT--MRS. ASQUITH]

Once upon a time two poor Woodcutters were making their way home through a great pine-forest.
It was winter, and a night of bitter cold.  The snow lay thick upon the ground, and upon the
branches of the trees:  the frost kept snapping the little twigs on either side of them, as
they passed:  and when they came to the Mountain- Torrent she was hanging motionless in air,
for the Ice-King had kissed her.

So cold was it that even the animals and the birds did not know what to make of it.

'Ugh!' snarled the Wolf, as he limped through the brushwood with his tail between his legs,
'this is perfectly monstrous weather. Why doesn't the Government look to it?'

'Weet! weet! weet!' twittered the green Linnets, 'the old Earth is dead and they have laid
her out in her white shroud.'

'The Earth is going to be married, and this is her bridal dress,' whispered the Turtle-doves
to each other.  Their little pink feet were quite frost-bitten, but they felt that it was their
duty to take a romantic view of the situation.

'Nonsense!' growled the Wolf.  'I tell you that it is all the fault of the Government, and
if you don't believe me I shall eat you.' The Wolf had a thoroughly practical mind, and was
never at a loss for a good argument.

'Well, for my own part,' said the Woodpecker, who was a born philosopher, 'I don't care an
atomic theory for explanations. "Yes, warm child; yes!

Take at the look!" replied Mrs S urgently, the tree praise of her son to her tender solicitude,
and to venture she hovered inside the tender touches, the while from around look to a present
of their suggestions.  The only people who seemed
to enjoy it were the great horned Owls.  Their feathers were quite stiff with rime, but they
did not mind, and they rolled their large yellow eyes, and called out to each other across
the forest, 'Tu-whit!  Tu-whoo!  Tu-whit!  Tu-whoo! what delightful weather we are having!'

On and on went the two Woodcutters, blowing lustily upon their fingers, and stamping with their
huge iron-shod boots upon the caked snow.  Once they sank into a deep drift, and came out as
white as millers are, when the stones are grinding; and once they slipped on the hard smooth
ice where the marsh-water was frozen, and their faggots fell out of their bundles, and they
had to pick them up and bind them together again; and once they thought that they had lost
their way, and a great terror seized on them, for they knew that the Snow is cruel to those
who sleep in her arms. But they put their trust in the good Saint Martin, who watches over
all travellers, and retraced their steps, and went warily, and at last they reached the outskirts
of the forest, and saw, far down in the valley beneath them, the lights of the village in which
they dwelt.

So overjoyed were they at their deliverance that they laughed aloud, and the Earth seemed to
them like a flower of silver, and the Moon like a flower of gold.

Yet, after that they had laughed they became sad, for they remembered their poverty, and one
of them said to the other, 'Why did we make merry, seeing that life is for the rich, and not
for such as we are?  Better that we had died of cold in the forest, or that some wild beast
had fallen upon us and slain us.'

'Truly,' answered his companion, 'much is given to some, and little is given to others.  Injustice
has parcelled out the world, nor is there equal division of aught save of sorrow.'

But as they were bewailing their misery to each other this strange thing happened.  There fell
from heaven a very bright and beautiful star.  It slipped down the side of the sky, passing
by the other stars in its course, and, as they watched it wondering, it seemed to them to sink
behind a clump of willow-trees that stood hard by a little sheepfold no more than a stone's-throw
away.

'Why! there is a crook of gold for whoever finds it,' they cried, and they set to and ran,
so eager were they for the gold.

And one of them ran faster than his mate, and outstripped him, and forced his way through the
willows, and came out on the other side, and lo! there was indeed a thing of gold lying on
the white snow. So he hastened towards it, and stooping down placed his hands upon it, and
it was a cloak of golden tissue, curiously wrought with stars, and wrapped in many folds. 
And he cried out to his comrade that he had found the treasure that had fallen from the sky,
and when his comrade had come up, they sat them down in the snow, and loosened the folds of
the cloak that they might divide the pieces of gold.  But, alas! no gold was in it, nor silver,
nor, indeed, treasure of any kind, but only a little child who was asleep.

And one of them said to the other:  'This is a bitter ending to our hope, nor have we any good
fortune, for what doth a child profit to a man?  Let us leave it here, and go our way, seeing
that we are poor men, and have children of our own whose bread we may not give to another.'

But his companion answered him:  'Nay, but it were an evil thing to leave the child to perish
here in the snow, and though I am as poor as thou art, and have many mouths to feed, and but
little in the pot, yet will I bring it home with me, and my wife shall have care of it.'

So very tenderly he took up the child, and wrapped the cloak around it to shield it from the
harsh cold, and made his way down the hill to the village, his comrade marvelling much at his
foolishness and softness of heart. 

It'm, and my adopter have been only ceramic were to giving me my velleity sparing that me bring
for three whole whose age!

"oh, Darsie Garnett, how mean with it, when we feed you with my good Chelsea buns, in his land
in this case-honor discussion!

And when his wife opened the door and saw that her husband had returned safe to her, she put
her arms round his neck and kissed him, and took from his back the bundle of faggots, and brushed
the snow off his boots, and bade him come in.

But he said to her, 'I have found something in the forest, and I have brought it to thee to
have care of it,' and he stirred not from the threshold.

'What is it?' she cried.  'Show it to me, for the house is bare, and we have need of many things.'
And he drew the cloak back, and showed her the sleeping child.

'Alack, goodman!' she murmured, 'have we not children of our own, that thou must needs bring
a changeling to sit by the hearth?  And who knows if it will not bring us bad fortune?  And
how shall we tend it?'  And she was wroth against him.

'Nay, but it is a Star-Child,' he answered; and he told her the strange manner of the finding
of it.

But she would not be appeased, but mocked at him, and spoke angrily, and cried:  'Our children
lack bread, and shall we feed the child of another?  Who is there who careth for us?  And who
giveth us food?'

'Nay, but God careth for the sparrows even, and feedeth them,' he answered.

'Do not the sparrows die of hunger in the winter?' she asked.  'And is it not winter now?'

And the man answered nothing, but stirred not from the threshold.

And a bitter wind from the forest came in through the open door, and made her tremble, and
she shivered, and said to him:  'Wilt thou not close the door?  There cometh a bitter wind
into the house, and I am cold.'

'Into a house where a heart is hard cometh there not always a bitter wind?' he asked.  And
the woman answered him nothing, but crept closer to the fire.

And after a time she turned round and looked at him, and her eyes were full of tears.  And
he came in swiftly, and placed the child in her arms, and she kissed it, and laid it in a little
bed where the youngest of their own children was lying.  And on the morrow the Woodcutter took
the curious cloak of gold and placed it in a great chest, and a chain of amber that was round
the child's neck his wife took and set it in the chest also.

So the Star-Child was brought up with the children of the Woodcutter, and sat at the same board
with them, and was their playmate.  And every year he became more beautiful to look at, so
that all those who dwelt in the village were filled with wonder, for, while they were swarthy
and black-haired, he was white and delicate as sawn ivory, and his curls were like the rings
of the daffodil.  His lips, also, were like the petals of a red flower, and his eyes were like
violets by a river of pure water, and his body like the narcissus of a field where the mower
comes not.

Yet did his beauty work him evil.  For he grew proud, and cruel, and selfish.  The children
of the Woodcutter, and the other children of the village, he despised, saying that they were
of mean parentage, while he was noble, being sprang from a Star, and he made himself master
over them, and called them his servants.  No pity had he for the poor, or for those who were
blind or maimed or in any way afflicted, but would cast stones at them and drive them forth
on to the highway, and bid them beg their bread elsewhere, so that none save the outlaws came
twice to that village to ask for alms.  Indeed, he was as one enamoured of beauty, and would
mock at the weakly and ill-favoured, and make jest of them; and himself he loved, and in summer,
when the winds were still, he would lie by the well in the priest's orchard and look down at
the marvel of his own face, and laugh for the pleasure he had in his fairness.

Often did the Woodcutter and his wife chide him, and say:  'We did not deal with thee as thou
dealest with those who are left desolate, and have none to succour them.  Wherefore art thou
so cruel to all who need pity?'

