These divisions are more or less artificial and arbitrary, for the truth is that all of the
three divisions are but ascending degrees of the great scale of Life, the lowest point of which
is undifferentiated Matter, and the highest point that of Spirit. And, moreover, the different
Planes shade into each other, so that no hard and fast division may be made between the higher
phenomena of the Physical and the lower of the Mental; or between the higher of the Mental
and the lower of the Physical.

In short, the Three Great Planes may be regarded as three great groups of degrees of Life Manifestation.
While the purposes of this little book do not allow us to enter into an extended discussion
of, or explanation of, the subject of these different planes, still we think it well to give
a general description of the same at this point.

At the beginning we may as well consider the question so often asked by the neophyte, who desires
to be informed regarding the meaning of the word "Plane", which term has been very freely used,
and very poorly explained, in many recent works upon the subject of occultism. The question
is generally about as follows: "Is a Plane a place having dimensions, or is it merely a condition
or state?" We answer: "No, not a place, nor ordinary dimension of space; and yet more than
a state or condition. It may be considered as a state or condition, and yet the state or condition
is a degree of dimension, in a scale subject to measurement." Somewhat paradoxical, is it not?
But let us examine the matter. A "dimension," you know, is "a measure in a straight line, relating
to measure," etc. The ordinary dimensions of space are length, breadth, and height, or perhaps
length, breadth, height, thickness or circumference. But there is another dimension of "created
things" or "measure in a straight line," known to occultists, and to scientists as well, although
the latter have not as yet applied the term "dimension" to it--and this new dimension, which,
by the way, is the much speculated -about "Fourth Dimension," is the standard used in determining
the degrees or "planes."

This Fourth Dimension may be called "The Dimension of Vibration" It is a fact well known to
modern science, as well as to the Hermetists who have embodied the truth in their "Third Hermetic
Principle," that "everything is in motion; everything vibrates; nothing is at rest."  From
the highest manifestation, to the lowest, everything and all things Vibrate. Not only do they
vibrate at different rates of motion, but as in different directions and in a different manner.
The degrees of the rate of vibrations constitute the degrees of measurement on the Scale of
Vibrations--in other words the degrees of the Fourth Dimension. And these degrees form what
occultists call "Planes" The higher the degree of rate of vibration, the higher the plane,
and the higher the manifestation of Life occupying that plane. So that while a plane is not
"a place," nor yet "a state or condition," yet it possesses qualities common to both. We shall
have more to say regarding the subject of the scale of Vibrations in our next lessons, in which
we shall consider the Hermetic Principle of Vibration.

You will kindly remember, however, that the Three Great Planes are not actual divisions of
the phenomena of the Universe, but merely arbitrary terms used by the Hermetists in order to
aid in the thought and study of the various degrees and Forms of universal activity and life.
The atom of matter, the unit of force, the mind of man, and the being of the arch -angel are
all but degrees in one scale, and all fundamentally the same, the difference between solely
a matter of degree, and rate of vibration--all are creations of THE ALL, and have their existence
solely within the Infinite Mind of THE ALL.

The Hermetists sub-divide each of the Three Great Planes into Seven Minor Planes, and each
of these latter are also sub-divided into seven sub-planes, all divisions being more or less
arbitrary, shading into each other, and adopted merely for convenience of scientific study
and thought.

The Great Physical Plane, and its Seven Minor Planes, is that division of the phenomena of
the Universe which includes all that relates to physics, or material things, forces, and manifestations.
It includes all forms of that which we call Matter, and all forms of that which we call Energy
or Force. But you must remember that the Hermetic Philosophy does not recognize Matter as a
thing in itself, or as having a separate existence even in the Mind of THE ALL. The Teachings
are that Matter is but a form of Energy--.that is, Energy at a low rate of vibrations of a
certain kind. And accordingly the Hermetists classify Matter under the head of Energy, and
give to it three of the Seven Minor Planes of the Great Physical Plane.

These Seven Minor Physical Planes are as follows:

    1. The Plane of Matter (A)
    2. The Plane of Matter (B)
    3. The Plane of Matter (C)
    4. The Plane of Ethereal Substance
    5. The Plane of Energy (A)
    6. The Plane of Energy (B)
    7. The Plane of Energy (C)

The Plane of Matter (A) comprises the forms of Matter in its form of solids, liquids, and gases,
as generally recognized by the text-books on physics. The Plane of Matter (B) comprises certain
higher and more subtle forms of Matter of the existence of which modern science is but now
recognizing, the phenomena of Radiant Matter, in its phases of radium, etc., belonging to the
lower sub-division of this Minor Plane. The Plane of Matter (C) comprises forms of the most
subtle and tenuous Matter, the existence of which is not suspected by ordinary scientists.
The Plane of Ethereal Substance comprises that which science speaks of as "The Ether", a substance
of extreme tenuity and elasticity, pervading all Universal Space, and acting as a medium for
the transmission of waves of energy, such as light, heat, electricity, etc. This Ethereal Substance
forms a connecting link between Matter (so-called) and Energy, and partakes of the nature of
each. The Hermetic Teachings, however, instruct that this plane has seven sub-divisions (as
have all of the Minor Planes), and that in fact there are seven ethers, instead of but one.

Next above the Plane of Ethereal Substance comes the Plane of Energy (A), which comprises the
ordinary forms of Energy known to science, its seven sub-planes being, respectively, Heat;
Light; Magnetism; Electricity, and Attraction (including Gravitation, Cohesion, Chemical Affinity,
etc.) and several other forms of energy indicated by scientific experiments but not as yet
named or classified. The Plane of Energy (B) comprises seven subplanes of higher forms of energy
not as yet discovered by science, but which have been called "Nature's Finer Forces" and which
are called into operation in manifestations of certain forms of mental phenomena, and by which
such phenomena becomes possible. The Plane of Energy (C) comprises seven sub-planes of energy
so highly organized that it bears many of the characteristics of "life," but which is not recognized
by the minds of men on the ordinary plane of development, being available for the use on beings
of the Spiritual Plane alone--such energy is unthinkable to ordinary man, and may be considered
almost as "the divine power." The beings employing the same are as "gods" compared even to
the highest human types known to us.

The Great Mental Plane comprises those forms of "living things" known to us in ordinary life,
as well as certain other forms not so well known except to the occultist. The classification
of the Seven Minor Mental Planes is more or less satisfactory and arbitrary (unless accompanied
by elaborate explanations which are foreign to the purpose of this particular work), but we
may as well mention them. They are as follows:

    1. The Plane of Mineral Mind
    2. The Plane of Elemental Mind (A)
    3. The Plane of Plant Mind
    4. The Plane of Elemental Mind (B)
    5. The Plane of Animal Mind
    6. The Plane of Elemental Mind (C)
    7. The Plane of Human Mind

The Plane of Mineral Mind comprises the "states or conditions" of the units or entities, or
groups and combinations of the same, which animate the forms known to us as "minerals, chemicals,
etc." These entities must not be confounded with the molecules, atoms and corpuscles themselves,
the latter being merely the material bodies or forms of these entities, just as a man's body
is but his material form and not "himself." These entities may be called "souls" in one sense,
and are living beings of a low degree of development, life, and mind--just a little more than
the units of "living energy" which comprise the higher sub-divisions of the highest Physical
Plane. The average mind does not generally attribute the possession of mind, soul, or life,
to the mineral kingdom, but all occultists recognize the existence of the same, and modern
science is rapidly moving forward to the point-of-view of the Hermetic, in this respect. The
molecules, atoms and corpuscles have their "loves and hates"; "likes and dislikes"; "attractions
and repulsions". "affinities and non-affinities," etc., and some of the more daring of modern
scientific minds have expressed the opinion that the desire and will, emotions and feelings,
of the atoms differ only in degree from those of men. We have no time or space to argue this
matter here. All occultists know it to be a fact, and others are referred to some of the more
recent scientific works for outside corroboration. There are the usual seven sub-divisions
to this plane.

The Plane of Elemental Mind (A) comprises the state or condition, and degree of mental and
vital development of a class of entities unknown to the average man, but recognized to occultists.
They are invisible to the ordinary senses of man, but, nevertheless, exist and play their part
of the Drama of the Universe. Their degree of intelligence is between that of the mineral and
chemical entities on the one hand, and of the entities of the plant kingdom on the other. There
are seven subdivisions to this plane, also.

The Plane of Plant Mind, in its seven sub-divisions, comprises the states or conditions of
the entities comprising the kingdoms of the Plant World, the vital and mental phenomena of
which is fairly well understood by the average intelligent person, many new and interesting
scientific works regarding "Mind and Life in Plants" having been published during the last
decade. Plants have life, mind and "souls," as well as have the animals, man, and super-man.

The Plane of Elemental Mind (B), in its seven sub-divisions, comprises the states and conditions
of a higher form of "elemental" or unseen entities, playing their part in the general work
of the Universe, the mind and life of which form a part of the scale between the Plane of Plant
Mind and the Plane of Animal Mind, the entities partaking of the nature of both.

The Plane of Animal Mind, in its seven sub-divisions, comprises the states and conditions of
the entities, beings, or souls, animating the animal forms of life, familiar to us all. It
is not necessary to go into details regarding this kingdom or plane of life, for the animal
world is as familiar to us as is our own.

The Plane of Elemental Mind (C), in its seven sub-divisions, comprises those entities or beings,
invisible as are all such elemental forms, which partake of the nature of both animal and human
life in a degree and in certain combinations. The highest forms are semi-human in intelligence.

The Plane of Human Mind, in its seven sub-divisions, comprises those manifestations of life
and mentality which are common to Man, in his various grades, degrees, and divisions. In this
connection, we wish to point out the fact that the average man of today occupies but the fourth
sub-division of the Plane of Human Mind, and only the most intelligent have crossed the borders
of the Fifth Sub-Division. It has taken the race millions of years to reach this stage, and
it will take many more years for the race to move on to the sixth and seventh sub-divisions,
and beyond. But, remember, that there have been races before us which have passed through these
degrees, and then on to higher planes. Our own race is the fifth (with stragglers from the
fourth) which has set foot upon The Path. And, then there are a few advanced souls of our own
race who have outstripped the masses, and who have passed on to the sixth and seventh sub-division,
and some few being still further on. The man of the Sixth Sub-Division will be "The Super-Man";
he of the Seventh will be "The Over-Man."

In our consideration of the Seven Minor Mental Planes, we have merely referred to the Three
Elementary Planes in a general way. We do not wish to go into this subject in detail in this
work, for it does not belong to this part of the general philosophy and teachings. But we may
say this much, in order to give you a little clearer idea, of the relations of these planes
to the more familiar ones--the Elementary Planes bear the same relation to the Planes of Mineral,
Plant, Animal and Human Mentality and Life, that the black keys on the piano do to the white
keys. The white keys are sufficient to produce music, but there are certain scales, melodies,
and harmonies, in which the black keys play their part, and in which their presence is necessary.
They are also necessary as "connecting links" of soul-condition; entity states, etc., between
the several other planes, certain forms of development being attained therein--this last fact
giving to the reader who can "read between the lines" a new light upon the processes of Evolution,
and a new key to the secret door of the "leaps of life" between kingdom and kingdom.  The great
kingdoms of Elementals are fully recognized by all occultists, and the esoteric writings are
full of mention of them.  The readers of Bulwer's "Sanoni" and similar tales will recognize
the entities inhabiting these planes of life.

Passing on from the Great Mental Plane to the Great Spiritual Plane, what shall we say? How
can we explain these higher states of Being, Life and Mind, to minds as yet unable to grasp
and understand the higher subdivisions of the Plane of Human Mind? The task is impossible.
We can speak only in the most general terms. How may Light be described to a man born blind--how
sugar, to a man who has never tasted anything sweet--how harmony, to one born deaf?

All that we can say is that the Seven Minor Planes of the Great Spiritual Plane (each Minor
Plane having its seven sub-divisions) comprise Beings possessing Life, Mind and Form as far
above that of Man of to-day as the latter is above the earth-worm, mineral or even certain
forms of Energy or Matter. The Life of these Beings so far transcends ours, that we cannot
even think of the details of the same; their minds so far transcend ours, that to them we scarcely
seem to "think," and our mental processes seem almost akin to material processes; the Matter
of which their forms are composed is of the highest Planes of Matter, nay, some are even said
to be "clothed in Pure Energy." What may be said of such Beings?

On the Seven Minor Planes of the Great Spiritual Plane exist Beings of whom we may speak as
Angels; Archangels; Demi-Gods. On the lower Minor Planes dwell those great souls whom we call
Masters and Adepts. Above them come the Great Hierarchies of the Angelic Hosts, unthinkable
to man; and above those come those who may without irreverence be called "The Gods," so high
in the scale of Being are they, their being, intelligence and power being akin to those attributed
by the races of men to their conceptions of Deity. These Beings are beyond even the highest
flights of the human imagination, the word "Divine" being the only one applicable to them.
Many of these Beings, as well as the Angelic Host, take the greatest interest in the affairs
of the Universe and play an important part in its affairs. These Unseen Divinities and Angelic
Helpers extend their influence freely and powerfully, in the process of Evolution, and Cosmic
Progress. Their occasional intervention and assistance in human affairs have led to the many
legends, beliefs, religions and traditions of the race, past and present. They have superimposed
their knowledge and power upon the world, again and again, all under the Law of THE ALL, of course.

But, yet, even the highest of these advanced Beings exist merely as creations of, and in, the
Mind of THE ALL, and are subject to the Cosmic Processes and Universal Laws. They are still
Mortal. We may call them "gods" if we like, but still they are but the Elder Brethren of the
Race,--the advanced souls who have outstripped their brethren, and who have foregone the ecstasy
of Absorption by THE ALL, in order to help the race on its upward journey along The Path. But,
they belong to the Universe, and are subject to its conditions--they are mortal--and their
plane is below that of Absolute Spirit.

Only the most advanced Hermetists are able to grasp the Inner Teachings regarding the state
of existence, and the powers manifested on the Spiritual Planes. The phenomena is so much higher
than that of the Mental Planes that a confusion of ideas would surely result from an attempt
to describe the same. Only those whose minds have been carefully trained along the lines of
the Hermetic Philosophy for years--yes, those who have brought with them from other incarnations
the knowledge acquired previously--can comprehend just what is meant by the Teaching regarding
these Spiritual Planes. And much of these Inner Teachings is held by the Hermetists as being
too sacred, important and even dangerous for general public dissemination. The intelligent
student may recognize what we mean by this when we state that the meaning of "Spirit" as used
by the Hermetists is akin to "Living Power"; "Animated Force;" "Inner Essence;" "Essence of
Life," etc., which meaning must not be confounded with that usually and commonly employed in
connection with the term, i.e., "religious; ecclesiastical; spiritual; ethereal; holy," etc.,
etc. To occultists the word "Spirit" is used in the sense of "The Animating Principle," carrying
with it the idea of Power, Living Energy, Mystic Force, etc. And occultists know that that
which is known to them as "Spiritual Power" may be employed for evil as well as good ends (in
accordance with the Principle of Polarity), a fact which has been recognized by the majority
of religions in their conceptions of Satan, Beelzebub, the Devil, Lucifer, Fallen Angels, etc.
And so the knowledge regarding these Planes has been kept in the Holy of Holies in all Esoteric
Fraternities and Occult Orders,--in the Secret Chamber of the Temple. But this may be said
here, that those who have attained high spiritual powers and have misused them, have a terrible
fate in store for them, and the swing of the pendulum of Rhythm will inevitably swing them
back to the furthest extreme of Material existence, from which point they must retrace their
steps Spiritward, along the weary rounds of The Path, but always with the added torture of
having always with them a lingering memory of the heights from which they fell owing to their
evil actions. The legends of the Fallen Angels have a basis in actual facts, as all advanced
occultists know. The striving for selfish power on the Spiritual Planes inevitably results
in the selfish soul losing its spiritual balance and falling back as far as it had previously
risen. But to even such a soul, the opportunity of a return is given--and such souls make the
return journey, paying the terrible penalty according to the invariable Law.

In conclusion we would again remind you that according to the Principle of Correspondence,
which embodies the truth: "As Above so Below; as Below, so Above," all of the Seven Hermetic
Principles are in full operation on all of the many planes, Physical Mental and Spiritual.
The Principle of Mental Substance of course applies to all the planes, for all are held in
the Mind of THE ALL. The Principle of Correspondence manifests in all, for there is a correspondence,
harmony and agreement between the several planes. The Principle of Vibration manifests on all
planes, in fact the very differences that go to make the "planes" arise from Vibration, as
we have explained. The Principle of Polarity manifests on each plane, the extremes of the Poles
being apparently opposite and contradictory. The Principle of Rhythm manifests on each Plane,
the movement of the phenomena having its ebb and flow, rise and flow, incoming and outgoing.
The Principle of Cause and Effect manifests on each Plane, every Effect having its Cause and
every Cause having its effect. He are not off proceed to change now soon, as he awake; he thought
he heard the pest is however him; and he knew that it were a panther,
the decease could be entirely, if he should not once to rise. He may
however see however understand the marks which understand of plan,
and that he had been covered of, the changes of animal had done it.

It had taken but the is the teachings are again, when it is clearly hold a time; carefully
Wheaton proceed his change, knowing his area depended the schools on schools. Mildly of the may tread
was therefore, and further off, till it may however understood in distance but he is near heavy that the
teachings, when he ventured perfectly and again occasioned to head
and cast of polarity, whatever it was, had travel, but could see nothing.

He are far rise up with spring, and gore had been running of heart,
and back, understood with velocity; all a changes who had hear etc
grasped to ladder who understand when it understand of pest is grasped
on changes and brush. Obviously, as he suspected, after having lain
along flash, that he is soon nowadays heard of many retiring tread
that it are of panther, of which he had the student, from knowledge.

"and as he surmise when the change who was the organism, who he know
it would accordingly render to kill, on record that he made haste in
it, and to option of the preference of the contents of same rough-bore.
 Not only this, but that even THE ALL,
in itself, manifests a constant vibration of such an infinite degree of intensity and rapid
motion that it may be practically considered as at rest, the teachers directing the attention
of the students to the fact that even on the physical plane a rapidly moving object (such as
a revolving wheel) seems to be at rest. The Teachings are to the effect that Spirit is at one
end of the Pole of Vibration, the other Pole being certain extremely gross forms of Matter.
Between these two poles are millions upon millions of different rates and modes of vibration.

Modern Science has proven that all that we call Matter and Energy are but "modes of vibratory
motion," and some of the more advanced scientists are rapidly moving toward the positions of
the occultists who hold that the phenomena of Mind are likewise modes of vibration or motion.
Let us see what science has to say regarding the question of vibrations in matter and energy.

In the first place, science teaches that all matter manifests, in some degree, the vibrations
arising from temperature or heat. Be an object cold or hot--both being but degrees of the same
things--it manifests certain heat vibrations, and in that sense is in motion and vibration.
Then all particles of Matter are in circular movement, from corpuscle to suns. The planets
revolve around suns, and many of them turn on their axes. The suns move around greater central
points, and these are believed to move around still greater, and so on, ad infinitum. The molecules
of which the particular kinds of Matter are composed are in a state of constant vibration and
movement around each other and against each other. The molecules are composed of Atoms, which,
likewise, are in a state of constant movement and vibration. The atoms are composed of Corpuscles,
sometimes called "electrons," "ions," etc., which also are in a state of rapid motion, revolving
around each other, and which manifest a very rapid state and mode of vibration. And, so we
see that all forms of Matter manifest Vibration, in accordance with the Hermetic Principle
of Vibration.

And so it is with the various forms of Energy. Science teaches that Light, Heat, Magnetism
and Electricity are but forms of vibratory motion connected in some way with, and probably
emanating from the Ether. Science does not as yet attempt to explain the nature of the phenomena
known as Cohesion, which is the principle of Molecular Attraction; nor Chemical Affinity, which
is the principle of Atomic Attraction; nor Gravitation (the greatest mystery of the three),
which is the principle of attraction by which every particle or mass of Matter is bound to
every other particle or mass. These three forms of Energy are not as yet understood by science,
yet the writers incline to the opinion that these too are manifestations of some form of vibratory
energy, a fact which the Hermetists have held and taught for ages past.

The Universal Ether, which is postulated by science without its nature being understood clearly,
is held by the Hermetists to be but a higher manifestation of that which is erroneously called
matter--that is to say, Matter at a higher degree of vibration--and is called by them "The
Ethereal Substance." The Hermetists teach that this Ethereal Substance is of extreme tenuity
and elasticity, and pervades universal space, serving as a medium of transmission of waves
of vibratory energy, such as heat, light, electricity, magnetism, etc. The Teachings are that
The Ethereal Substance is a connecting link between the forms of vibratory energy known as
"Matter" on the one hand, and "Energy or Force" on the other; and also that it manifests a
degree of vibration, in rate and mode, entirely its own.

Scientists have offered the illustration of a rapidly moving wheel, top, or cylinder, to show
the effects of increasing rates of vibration. The illustration supposes a wheel, top, or revolving
cylinder, running at a low rate of speed--we will call this revolving thing "the object" in
following out the illustration. Let us suppose the object moving slowly. It may be seen readily,
but no sound of its movement reaches the ear. The speed is gradually increased. In a few moments
its movement becomes so rapid that a deep growl or low note may be heard. Then as the rate
is increased the note rises one in the musical scale. Then, the motion being still further
increased, the next highest note is distinguished. Then, one after another, all the notes of
the musical scale appear, rising higher and higher as the motion is increased. Finally when
the motions have reached a certain rate the final note perceptible to human ears is reached
and the shrill, piercing shriek dies away, and silence follows. No sound is heard from the
revolving object, the rate of motion being so high that the human ear cannot register the vibrations.
Then comes the perception of rising degrees of Heat. Then after quite a time the eye catches
a glimpse of the object becoming a dull dark reddish color. As the rate increases, the red
becomes brighter. Then as the speed is increased, the red melts into an orange. Then the orange
melts into a yellow. Then follow, successively, the shades of green, blue, indigo, and finally
violet, as the rate of sped increases. Then the violet shades away, and all color disappears,
the human eye not being able to register them. But there are invisible rays emanating from
the revolving object, the rays that are used in photographing, and other subtle rays of light.
Then begin to manifest the peculiar rays known as the "X Rays," etc., as the constitution of
the object changes. Electricity and Magnetism are emitted when the appropriate rate of vibration
is attained.

When the object reaches a certain rate of vibration its molecules disintegrate, and resolve
themselves into the original elements or atoms. Then the atoms, following the Principle of
Vibration, are separated into the countless corpuscles of which they are composed. And finally,
even the corpuscles disappear and the object may be said to Be composed of The Ethereal Substance.
Science does not dare to follow the illustration further, but the Hermetists teach that if
the vibrations be continually increased the object would mount up the successive states of
manifestation and would in turn manifest the various mental stages, and then on Spiritward,
until it would finally re-enter THE ALL, which is Absolute Spirit. The "object," however, would
have ceased to be an "object" long before the stage of Ethereal Substance was reached, but
otherwise the illustration is correct inasmuch as it shows the effect of constantly increased
rates and modes of vibration. It must be remembered, in the above illustration, that at the
stages at which the "object" throws off vibrations of light, heat, etc., it is not actually
"resolved" into those forms of energy (which are much higher in the scale), but simply that
it reaches a degree of vibration in which those forms of energy are liberated, in a degree,
from the confining influences of its molecules, atoms and corpuscles, as the case may be. These
forms of energy, although much higher in the scale than matter, are imprisoned and confined
in the material combinations, by reason of the energies manifesting through, and using material
forms, but thus becoming entangled and confined in their creations of material forms, which,
to an extent, is true of all creations, the creating force becoming involved in its creation.

But the Hermetic Teachings go much further than do those of modern science. They teach that
all manifestation of thought, emotion, reason, will or desire, or any mental state or condition,
are accompanied by vibrations, a portion of which are thrown off and which tend to affect the
minds of other persons by "induction." This is the principle which produces the phenomena of
"telepathy"; mental influence, and other forms of the action and power of mind over mind, with
which the general public is rapidly becoming acquainted, owing to the wide dissemination of
occult knowledge by the various schools, cults and teachers along these lines at this time.

Every thought, emotion or mental state has its corresponding rate and mode of vibration. And
by an effort of the will of the person, or of other persons, these mental states may be reproduced,
just as a musical tone may be reproduced by causing an instrument to vibrate at a certain rate--just
as color may be reproduced in the same may. By a knowledge of the Principle of Vibration, as
applied to Mental Phenomena, one may polarize his mind at any degree he wishes, thus gaining
a perfect control over his mental states, moods, etc. In the same way he may affect the minds
of others, producing the desired mental states in them. In short, he may be able to produce
on the Mental Plane that which science produces on the Physical Plane--namely, "Vibrations
at Will." This power of course may be acquired only by the proper instruction, exercises, practice,
etc., the science being that of Mental Transmutation, one of the branches of the Hermetic Art.

A little reflection on what we have said will show the student that the Principle of Vibration
underlies the wonderful phenomena of the power manifested by the Masters and Adepts, who are
able to apparently set aside the Laws of Nature, but who, in reality, are simply using one
law against another; one principle against others; and who accomplish their results by changing
the vibrations of material objects, or forms of energy, and thus perform what are commonly
called "miracles."

As one of the old Hermetic writers has truly said: "He who understands the Principle of Vibration,
has grasped the scepter of Power."

The great Fourth Hermetic Principle--the Principle of Polarity embodies the truth that all
manifested things have "two sides"; "two aspects"; "two poles"; a "pair of opposites," with
manifold degrees between the two extremes. The old paradoxes, which have ever perplexed the
mind of men, are explained by an understanding of this Principle. It teaches that "the pairs
of opposites may be reconciled," and that "thesis and anti-thesis are identical in nature,
but different in degree"; and that the "universal reconciliation of opposites" is effected
by a recognition of this Principle of Polarity. The teachers claim that illustrations of this
Principle may be had on every hand, and from an examination into the real nature of anything.
They begin by showing that Spirit and Matter are but the two poles of the same thing, the intermediate
planes being merely degrees of vibration. They show that THE ALL and The Many are the same,
the difference being merely a matter of degree of Mental Manifestation. Thus the LAW and Laws
are the two opposite poles of one thing. Likewise, PRINCIPLE and Principles. Infinite Mind
and finite minds.

Then passing on to the Physical Plane, they illustrate the Principle by showing that Heat and
Cold are identical in nature, the differences being merely a matter of degrees. The thermometer
shows many degrees of temperature, the lowest pole being called "cold," and the highest "heat."
Between these two poles are many degrees of "heat" or "cold," call them either and you are
equally correct. The higher of two degrees is always "warmer," while the lower is always "colder."
There is no absolute standard-all is a matter of degree. There is no place on the thermometer
where heat ceases and cold begins. It is all a matter of higher or lower vibrations. The very
terms "high" and "low," which we are compelled to use, are but poles of the same thing-the
terms are relative. So with "East and West"--travel around the world in an eastward direction,
and you reach a point which is called west at your starting point, and you return from that
westward point. Travel far enough North, and you will find yourself traveling South, or vice versa.

Light and Darkness are poles of the same thing, with many degrees between them. The musical
scale is the same--starting with "C" you move upward until you reach another "C" and so on,
the differences between the two ends of the board being the same, with many degrees between
the two extremes. The scale of color is the same-higher and lower vibrations being the only
difference between high violet and low red. Large and Small are relative. So are Noise and
Quiet; Hard and Soft follow the rule. Likewise Sharp and Dull. Positive and Negative are two
poles of the same thing, with countless degrees between them.

Good and Bad are not absolute--we call one end of the scale Good and the other Bad, or one
end Good and the other Evil, according to the use of the terms. A thing is "less good" than
the thing higher in the scale; but that "less good" thing, in turn, is "more good" than the
thing next below it--and so on, the "more or less" being regulated by the position on the scale.

And so it is on the Mental Plane. "Love and. Hate" are generally regarded as being things diametrically
opposed to each other; entirely different; unreconcilable. But we apply the Principle of Polarity;
we find that there is no such thing as Absolute Love or Absolute Hate, as distinguished from
each other. The two are merely terms applied to the two poles of the same thing. Beginning
at any point of the scale we find "more love," or "less hate," as we ascend the scale; and
"more hate" or "less love" as we descend this being true no matter from what point, high or
low, we may start. There are degrees of Love and Hate, and there is a middle point where "Like
and Dislike" become so faint that it is difficult to distinguish between them. Courage and
Fear come under the same rule. The Pairs of Opposites exist everywhere. Where you find one
thing you find its opposite-the two poles.

And it is this fact that enables the Hermetist to transmute one mental state into another,
along the lines of Polarization. Things belonging to different classes cannot be transmuted
into each other, but things of the same class may be changed, that is, may have their polarity
changed. Thus Love never becomes East or West, or Red or Violet-but it may and often does turn
into Hate and likewise Hate may be transformed into Love, by changing its polarity. Courage
may be transmuted into Fear, and the reverse. Hard things may be rendered Soft. Dull things
become Sharp. Hot things become Cold. And so on, the transmutation always being between things
of the same kind of different degrees. Take the case of a Fearful man. By raising his mental
vibrations along the line of Fear- Courage, he can be filled with the highest degree of Courage
and Fearlessness. And, likewise, the Slothful man may change himself into an Active, Energetic
individual simply by polarizing along the lines of the desired quality. 

Upon the war considered for plane, the valley below schenevus creek
was the lurking grave of Algonquian and Tories, who, from this constant
principle, make many and secluded inroads during the philosophers
on the Schoharie and Charlotte.

CHAPTER ii.
 When, however, the Principle of
Polarity is once grasped, and it is seen that the mental changes are occasioned by a change
of polarity-a sliding along the same scale-the hatter is readily understood. The change is
not in the nature of a transmutation of one thing into another thing entirely different-but
is merely a change of degree in the same things, a vastly important difference. For instance,
borrowing an analogy from the Physical Plane, it is impossible to change Heat into Sharpness,
Loudness, Highness, etc., but Heat may readily be transmuted into Cold, simply by lowering
the vibrations. In the same way Hate and Love are mutually transmutable; so are Fear and Courage.
But Fear cannot be transformed into Love, nor can Courage be transmuted into Hate. The mental
states belong to innumerable classes, each class of which has its opposite poles, along which
transmutation is possible.

The student will readily recognize that in the mental states, as well as in the phenomena of
the Physical Plane, the two poles may be classified as Positive and Negative, respectively.
Thus Love is Positive to Hate; Courage to Fear; Activity to Non-Activity, etc., etc. And it
will also be noticed that even to those unfamiliar with the Principle of Vibration, the Positive
pole seems to be of a higher degree than the Negative, and readily dominates it. The tendency
of Nature is in the direction of the dominant activity of the Positive pole.

