One hundred years ago today the representatives of the Church in the different States met to
adopt a constitution.  There had been tentative efforts to effect an organization and adopt
a Book of Common Prayer, all of which were overruled by the good providence of God.  Many not
of our fold desired a liturgy.  Benjamin Franklin published at his own expense a revised copy
of the English liturgy.  The House of Bishops was composed of Bishop Seabury and Bishop White.
Bishop Provost was absent. In the House of Clerical and Lay Deputies were the Rev. Abraham
Jarvis, the Rev. Robert Smith, and the Rev. Samuel Parker, who became bishops. They met to
show the world that the charter of the Church is perpetual, and that the Church has the power
to adapt herself to all the conditions of human society.  They met to consolidate the scattered
fragments of the Church in the thirteen colonies into a national Church, and secure for themselves
and children Catholic faith and worship in the Book of Common Prayer.  They builded wiser than
they knew.  They secured for the Church self-government, free from all secular control.  They
preserved the traditions of the past, and yet every feature of executive, legislative, and
judicial administration was in harmony with the Constitution of the Republic.  They gave the
laity a voice in the council of the Church; they provided that bishops and clergy should be
tried by their peers, and that the clergy and laity of each diocese should elect their own
bishop subject to the approval of the whole Church.  There was the most delightful fraternal
intercourse between the two bishops.  In the words of our Presiding Bishop, "The blessed results
of that convention were due, under the guidance of the Holy Spirit, to the steadfast gentleness
of Bishop White and the gentle steadfast--of Bishop Seabury."  A century has passed.  The Church
which was then everywhere spoken against is everywhere known and respected; the mantle of Seabury,
White, Hobart, Ravenscroft, Eliot, De Lancey, and Kemper has fallen on others, and her sons
are in the forefront of that mighty movement which will people this land with millions of souls.
While we say with grateful hearts, "What hath God wrought!" we also say, "Not unto us, O Lord,
not unto us, but unto Thy Nave give the praise." Surely, an awful responsibility rests upon
a Church whose history is so full of the mercy of God.  We are living in the great missionary
age of the Church.  There is no nation on the earth to whom we may not carry the Gospel.  More
than eight hundred millions of souls for whom Christ died have not heard that there is a Saviour.
One of the hinderances to the speedy evangelization of the world is the division among Christians,--alas!
both within and without the Church.  Our Saviour said: "By this shall all men know that ye
are my disciples, if ye have love one to another."  Christians have been separated in hostile
camps, and often divisions have ripened into hatred.  The saddest of all is that the things
which separate us are not necessary for salvation.  The truths in which we agree are part of
the Catholic faith.  In the words of Dr. Dollinger, "we can say each to the other as baptized,
we are on either side, brothers and sisters in Christ.  In the great garden of the Lord, let
us shake hands over these confessional hedges, and let us break them down, so as to be able
to embrace one another altogether. These hedges are doctrinal divisions about which either
we or you are in error.  If you are in the wrong, we do not hold you morally culpable; for
your education, surroundings, knowledge, and training made the adherence to these doctrines
excusable and even right.