"'It is Commencement day at a certain large college in a certain city which we need not name.
The graduating class have met together for the last time in their own particular class-room.
The saintly, white-haired priest who has watched their progress step by step from the day they
first entered college stands before them. He speaks words to them which brings tears to those
young eyes, accustomed, as a rule, to looking only on the merry side of life. He speaks words
of true affection, of gentle admonition and fatherly advice. He gives to each youth a tiny
silver medal of our Blessed Mother, and exacts from each one a promise that he will faithfully
carry that little medal until the day of his death.'

"As Jim spoke he took from an inner pocket a small medal of our Lady and laid it on the palm
of his hand. I drew forth my rosary, and there, beside the crucifix, hung a medal the counterpart
of Jim's. He smiled as he continued:

"'I see you remember now, Father, but listen just a little longer for my story is not finished.
From that class-room those lads went forth into the busy world of men and of affairs. They
went their separate ways, each one to fill that position in life to which he felt himself called,
most of them fired by ambition and confident of success.

"'One of those young men left the college that night with his heart as buoyant and hopeful
as any of his companions. Almost from the first, however, things seemed to go wrong with him.
He was an orphan, father and mother having died a few years before. Perhaps if either parent
had been at hand to warn him of the dangers into which he was drifting, his life might have
been different. Perhaps, even if some one had warned him, the warning would have passed unheeded.
He tried law for a time and did not like it; tried business and gave that up; drifted from
one thing to another, always drifting lower, lower, until at last he found himself an outcast
and a wanderer. For some years he lived the life of a vagrant. If at times a longing to return
to better ways, a longing for all that might have been, stirred faintly within him, the feeling
was quickly drowned by recourse to the one thing to which he remained faithful, the enemy that
had brought about his ruin, drink.

"'During his wanderings he picked up odd jobs here and there, and one day he is taken on by
the boss of the stone-crusher over there in those quarries of yours. They were badly in need
of some one to stoke the engine, and even a rough looking tramp was welcome. That same day
there comes to the place a certain priest who is searching for one of the stray sheep from
his own fold. The tramp recognizes the priest at once, and the sight of that familiar face
brings back the old, happy days of his innocent boyhood. The priest commences to speak; he
pleads, he reasons with the boss of the stone-crusher. In spirit the tramp is once more back
in the college chapel listening to the saintly old man who had been his guide and confidant
in youth, and who had long since passed to his reward. The vague, discontented longing for
better things rises up in full strength. After all, why not? The look on the priest's face
as he turns away decides him. That look of bitter disappointment, of real grief, on the face
of his old college friend is more than the tramp can stand. He speaks, the priest turns to
him, and--well, the rest of the story you know for yourself, Father. That is, the rest as far
as any mortal can relate it. The end is not yet, but I trust that end will be one which will
satisfy even you.'"

Silence reigned for several moments, the fragrant silence of a warm May night. And then:

"I am sure it will, I am sure it will," mused Father Anthony, smiling confidently. "I have
no fear as to what the end will be for Jim, my one-armed tramp."

