It is out of the question, in a book so brief as this must necessarily be, to meet all these
demands or to alter these points of view. Interests that are purely local, events that did
not with certainty contribute to the final outcome, gossip, as well as the mere caprice of
the scholar--these must obviously be set aside.

The task imposed upon the volume resolves itself, at bottom, into just two questions: Why was
there a war? Why was the Lincoln Government successful? With these two questions always in
mind I have endeavored, on the one hand, to select and consolidate the pertinent facts; on
the other, to make clear, even at the cost of explanatory comment, their relations in the historical
sequence of cause and effect. This purpose has particularly governed the use of biographical
matter, in which the main illustration, of course, is the career of Lincoln. Prominent as it
is here made, the Lincoln matter all bears in the last analysis on one point--his control of
his support. On that the history of the North hinges. The personal and private Lincoln it is
impossible to present within these pages. The public Lincoln, including the character of his
mind, is here the essential matter.

The bibliography at the close of the volume indicates the more important books which are at
the reader's disposal and which it is unfortunate not to know.

NATHANIEL W. STEPHENSON. Charleston, S. C., March, 1918.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN AND THE UNION

INDEX

I. THE TWO NATIONS OF THE REPUBLIC

II. THE PARTY OF POLITICAL EVASION

III. THE POLITICIANS AND THE NEW DAY

IV. THE CRISIS

V. SECESSION

VI. WAR

VII. LINCOLN

VIII. THE RULE OF LINCOLN

IX. THE CRUCIAL MATTER

X. THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY

XI. NORTHERN LIFE DURING THE WAR

XII. THE MEXICAN EPISODE

XIII. THE PLEBISCITE OF 1864

XIV. LINCOLN'S FINAL INTENTIONS

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

CHAPTER I

THE TWO NATIONS OF THE REPUBLIC

"There is really no Union now between the North and the South.... No two nations upon earth
entertain feelings of more bitter rancor toward each other than these two nations of the Republic."

This remark, which is attributed to Senator Benjamin Wade of Ohio, provides the key to American
politics in the decade following the Compromise of 1850. To trace this division of the people
to its ultimate source, one would have to go far back into colonial times. There was a process
of natural selection at work, in the intellectual and economic conditions of the eighteenth
century, which inevitably drew together certain types and generated certain forces. This process
manifested itself in one form in His Majesty's plantations of the North, and in another in
those of the South. As early as the opening of the nineteenth century, the social tendencies
of the two regions were already so far alienated that they involved differences which would
scarcely admit of reconciliation. It is a truism to say that these differences gradually were
concentrated around fundamentally different conceptions of labor--of slave labor in the South,
of free labor in the North.

Nothing, however, could be more fallacious than the notion that this growing antagonism was
controlled by any deliberate purpose in either part of the country. It was apparently necessary
that this Republic in its evolution should proceed from confederation to nationality through
an intermediate and apparently reactionary period of sectionalism. In this stage of American
history, slavery was without doubt one of the prime factors involved, but sectional consciousness,
with all its emotional and psychological implications, was the fundamental impulse of the stern
events which occurred between 1850 and 1865.

By the middle of the nineteenth century the more influential Southerners had come generally
to regard their section of the country as a distinct social unit. The next step was inevitable.
The South began to regard itself as a separate political unit. It is the distinction of Calhoun
that he showed himself toward the end sufficiently flexible to become the exponent of this
new political impulse. With all his earlier fire he encouraged the Southerners to withdraw
from the so-called national parties, Whig and Democratic, to establish instead a single Southern
party, and to formulate, by means of popular conventions, a single concerted policy for the
entire South.

At that time such a policy was still regarded, from the Southern point of view, as a radical
idea. In 1851, a battle was fought at the polls between the two Southern ideas--the old one
which upheld separate state independence, and the new one which virtually acknowledged Southern
nationality. The issue at stake was the acceptance or the rejection of a compromise which could
bring no permanent settlement of fundamental differences.

Nowhere was the battle more interesting than in South Carolina, for it brought into clear light
that powerful Southern leader who ten years later was to be the masterspirit of secession--Robert
Barnwell Rhett. In 1851 he fought hard to revive the older idea of state independence and to
carry South Carolina as a separate state out of the Union. Accordingly it is significant of
the progress that the consolidation of the South had made at this date that on this issue Rhett
encountered general opposition. This difference of opinion as to policy was not inspired, as
some historians have too hastily concluded, by national feeling. Scarcely any of the leaders
of the opposition considered the Federal Government supreme over the State Government. They
opposed Rhett because they felt secession to be at that moment bad policy. They saw that, if
South Carolina went out of the Union in 1851, she would go alone and the solidarity of the
South would be broken. They were not lacking in sectional patriotism, but their conception
of the best solution of the complex problem differed from that advocated by Rhett. Their position
was summed up by Langdon Cheves when he said, "To secede now is to secede from the South as
well as from the Union." On the basis of this belief they defeated Rhett and put off secession
for ten years.

There is no analogous single event in the history of the North, previous to the war, which
reveals with similar clearness a sectional consciousness. On the surface the life of the people
seemed, indeed, to belie the existence of any such feeling. The Northern capitalist class aimed
steadily at being non-sectional, and it made free use of the word national. We must not forget,
however, that all sorts of people talked of national institutions, and that the term, until
we look closely into the mind of, the person using it, signifies nothing. Because the Northern
capitalist repudiated the idea of sectionalism, it does not follow that he set up any other
in its place. Instead of accomplishing anything so positive, he remained for the most part
a negative quantity.

Living usually somewhere between Maine and Ohio, he made it his chief purpose to regulate the
outflow of manufactures from that industrial region and the inflow of agricultural produce.
The movement of the latter eastward and northward, and the former westward and southward, represents
roughly but graphically the movement of the business of that time. The Easterner lived in fear
of losing the money which was owed him in the South. As the political and economic conditions
of the day made unlikely any serious clash of interest between the East and the West, he had
little solicitude about his accounts beyond the Alleghanies. But a gradually developing hostility
between North and South was accompanied by a parallel anxiety on the part of Northern capital
for its Southern investments and debts. When the war eventually became inevitable, $200,000,000
were owed by Southerners to Northerners. For those days this was an indebtedness of no inconsiderable
magnitude. The Northern capitalists, preoccupied with their desire to secure this account,
were naturally eager to repudiate sectionalism, and talked about national interests with a
zeal that has sometimes been misinterpreted. Throughout the entire period from 1850 to 1865,
capital in American politics played for the most part a negative role, and not until after
the war did it become independent of its Southern interests.

For the real North of that day we must turn to those Northerners who felt sufficient unto themselves
and whose political convictions were unbiased by personal interests which were involved in
other parts of the country. We must listen to the distinct voices that gave utterance to their
views, and we must observe the definite schemes of their political leaders. Directly we do
this, the fact stares us in the face that the North had become a democracy. The rich man no
longer played the role of grandee, for by this time there had arisen those two groups which,
between them, are the ruin of aristocracy--the class of prosperous laborers and the group of
well-to-do intellectuals. Of these, the latter gave utterance, first, to their faith in democracy,
and then, with all the intensity of partisan zeal, to their sense of the North as the agent
of democracy. The prosperous laborers applauded this expression of an opinion in which they
thoroughly believed and at the same time gave their willing support to a land policy that was
typically Northern.

American economic history in the middle third of the century is essentially the record of a
struggle to gain possession of public land. The opposing forces were the South, which strove
to perpetuate by this means a social system that was fundamentally aristocratic, and the North,
which sought by the same means to foster its ideal of democracy. Though the South, with the
aid of its economic vassal, the Northern capitalist class, was for some time able to check
the land-hunger of the Northern democrats, it was never able entirely to secure the control
which it desired, but was always faced with the steady and continued opposition of the real
North. On one occasion in Congress, the heart of the whole matter was clearly shown, for at
the very moment when the Northerners of the democratic class were pressing one of their frequent
schemes for free land, Southerners and their sympathetic Northern henchmen were furthering
a scheme that aimed at the purchase of Cuba. From the impatient sneer of a Southerner that
the Northerners sought to give "land to the landless" and the retort that the Southerners seemed
equally anxious to supply "niggers to the niggerless," it can be seen that American history
is sometimes better summed up by angry politicians than by historians.

We must be on our guard, however, against ascribing to either side too precise a consciousness
of its own motives. The old days when the American Civil War was conceived as a clear-cut issue
are as a watch in the night that has passed, and we now realize that historical movements are
almost without exception the resultants of many motives. We have come to recognize that men
have always misapprehended themselves, contradicted themselves, obeyed primal impulses, and
then deluded themselves with sophistications upon the springs of action. In a word, unaware
of what they are doing, men allow their aesthetic and dramatic senses to shape their conceptions
of their own lives.

That "great impersonal artist," of whom Matthew Arnold has so much to say, is at work in us
all, subtly making us into illusions, first to ourselves and later to the historian. It is
the business of history, as of analytic fiction, both to feel the power of these illusions
and to work through them in imagination to the dim but potent motives on which they rest. We
are prone to forget that we act from subconscious quite as often as from conscious influences,
from motives that arise out of the dim parts of our being, from the midst of shadows that psychology
has only recently begun to lift, where senses subtler than the obvious make use of fear, intuition,
prejudice, habit, and illusion, and too often play with us as the wind with blown leaves.

True as this is of man individually, it is even more fundamentally true of man collectively,
of parties, of peoples. It is a strikingly accurate description of the relation of the two
American nations that now found themselves opposed within the Republic. Neither fully understood
the other. Each had a social ideal that was deeper laid than any theory of government or than
any commercial or humanitarian interest. Both knew vaguely but with sure instinct that their
interests and ideals were irreconcilable. Each felt in its heart the deadly passion of self-preservation.
It was because, in both North and South, men were subtly conscious that a whole social system
was the issue at stake, and because on each side they believed in their own ideals with their
whole souls, that, when the time came for their trial by fire, they went to their deaths singing.

In the South there still obtained the ancient ideal of territorial aristocracy. Those long
traditions of the Western European peoples which had made of the great landholder a petty prince
lay beneath the plantation life of the Southern States. The feudal spirit, revived in a softer
world and under brighter skies, gave to those who participated in it the same graces and somewhat
the same capacities which it gave to the knightly class in the days of Roland--courage, frankness,
generosity, ability in affairs, a sense of responsibility, the consciousness of caste. The
mode of life which the planters enjoyed and which the inferior whites regarded as a social
paradise was a life of complete deliverance from toil, of disinterested participation in local
government, of absolute personal freedom--a life in which the mechanical action of law was
less important than the more human compulsion of social opinion, and in which private differences
were settled under the code of honor.

This Southern life was carried on in the most appropriate environment. On a landed estate,
often larger than many of Europe's baronies, stood the great house of the planter, usually
a graceful example of colonial architecture, surrounded by stately gardens. This mansion was
the center of a boundless hospitality; guests were always coming and going; the hostess and
her daughters were the very symbols of kindliness and ease. To think of such houses was to
think of innumerable joyous days; of gentlemen galloping across country after the hounds; of
coaches lumbering along avenues of noble oaks, bringing handsome women to visit the mansion;
of great feastings; of nights of music and dancing; above all, of the great festival of Christmas,
celebrated much as had been the custom in "Merrie England" centuries before.

Below the surface of this bright world lay the enslaved black race. In the minds of many Southerners--it
was always a secret burden from which they saw no means of freeing themselves. To emancipate
the slaves, and thereby to create a population of free blacks, was generally considered, from
the white point of view, an impossible solution of the problem. The Southerners usually believed
that the African could be tamed only in small groups and when constantly surrounded by white
influence, as in the case of house servants. Though a few great capitalists had taken up the
idea that the deliberate exploitation of the blacks was the high prerogative of the whites,
the general sentiment of the Southern people was more truly expressed by Toombs when he said:
"The question is not whether we could be more prosperous and happy with these three and a half
million slaves in Africa, and their places filled with an equal number of hardy, intelligent,
and enterprising citizens of the superior race; but it is simply whether, while we have them
among us, we would be most prosperous with them in freedom or in bondage."

The Southern people, in the majority of instances, had no hatred of the blacks. In the main
they led their free, spirited, and gracious life, convinced that the maintenance of slavery
was but making the best of circumstances which were beyond their control. It was these Southern
people who were to hear from afar the horrible indictment of all their motives by the Abolitionists
and who were to react in a growing bitterness and distrust toward everything Northern.

But of these Southern people the average Northerner knew nothing. He knew the South only on
its least attractive side of professional politics. For there was a group of powerful magnates,
rich planters or "slave barons," who easily made their way into Congress, and who played into
the hands of the Northern capitalists, for a purpose similar to theirs. It was these men who
forced the issue upon slavery; they warned the common people of the North to mind their own
business; and for doing so they were warmly applauded by the Northern capitalist class. It
was therefore in opposition to the whole American world of organized capital that the Northern
masses demanded the use of "the Northern hammer"--as Sumner put it, in one of his most furious
speeches--in their aim to destroy a section where, intuitively, they felt their democratic
ideal could not be realized.

And what was that ideal? Merely to answer democracy is to dodge the fundamental question. The
North was too complex in its social structure and too multitudinous in its interests to confine
itself to one type of life. It included all sorts and conditions of men--from the most gracious
of scholars who lived in romantic ease among his German and Spanish books, and whose lovely
house in Cambridge is forever associated with the noble presence of Washington, to the hardy
frontiersman, breaking the new soil of his Western claim, whose wife at sunset shaded her tired
eyes, under a hand rough with labor, as she stood on the threshold of her log cabin, watching
for the return of her man across the weedy fields which he had not yet fully subdued. Far apart
as were Longfellow and this toiler of the West, they yet felt themselves to be one in purpose.

They were democrats, but not after the simple, elementary manner of the democrats at the opening
of the century. In the North, there had come to life a peculiar phase of idealism that had
touched democracy with mysticism and had added to it a vague but genuine romance. This new
vision of the destiny of the country had the practical effect of making the Northerners identify
themselves in their imaginations with all mankind and in creating in them an enthusiastic desire,
not only to give to every American a home of his own, but also to throw open the gates of the
nation and to share the wealth of America with the poor of all the world. In very truth, it
was their dominating passion to give "land to the landless." Here was the clue to much of their
attitude toward the South. Most of these Northern dreamers gave little or no thought to slavery
itself; but they felt that the section which maintained such a system so committed to aristocracy
that any real friendship with it was impossible.

We are thus forced to conceive the American Republic in the years immediately following the
Compromise of 1850 as, in effect, a dual nation, without a common loyalty between the two parts.
Before long the most significant of the great Northerners of the time was to describe this
impossible condition by the appropriate metaphor of a house divided against itself. It was
not, however, until eight years after the division of the country had been acknowledged in
1850 that these words were uttered. In those eight years both sections awoke to the seriousness
of the differences that they had admitted. Both perceived that, instead of solving their problem
in 1850, they had merely drawn sharply the lines of future conflict. In every thoughtful mind
there arose the same alternative questions: Is there no solution but fighting it out until
one side destroys the other, or we end as two nations confessedly independent? Or is there
some conceivable new outlet for this opposition of energy on the part of the sections, some
new mode of permanent adjustment?

It was at the moment when thinking men were asking these questions that one of the nimblest
of politicians took the center of the stage. Stephen A. Douglas was far-sighted enough to understand
the land-hunger of the time. One is tempted to add that his ear was to the ground. The statement
will not, however, go unchallenged, for able apologists have their good word to say for Douglas.
Though in the main, the traditional view of him as the prince of political jugglers still holds
its own, let us admit that his bold, rough spirit, filled as it was with political daring,
was not without its strange vein of idealism. And then let us repeat that his ear was to the
ground. Much careful research has indeed been expended in seeking to determine who originated
the policy which, about 1853, Douglas decided to make his own. There has also been much dispute
about his motives. Most of us, however, see in his course of action an instance of playing
the game of politics with an audacity that was magnificent.

His conduct may well have been the result of a combination of motives which included a desire
to retain the favor of the Northwest, a wish to pave the way to his candidacy for the Presidency,
the intention to enlist the aid of the South as well as that of his own locality, and perhaps
the hope that he was performing a service of real value to his country. That is, he saw that
the favor of his own Northwest would be lavished upon any man who opened up to settlement the
rich lands beyond Iowa and Missouri which were still held by the Indians, and for which the
Westerners were clamoring. Furthermore, they wanted a railroad that would reach to the Pacific.
There were, however, local entanglements and political cross-purposes which involved the interests
of the free State of Illinois and those of the slave State of Missouri.

Douglas's great stroke was a programme for harmonizing all these conflicting interests and
for drawing together the West and the South. Slaveholders were to be given what at that moment
they wanted most--an opportunity to expand into that territory to the north and west of Missouri
which had been made free by the Compromise of 1820, while the free Northwest was to have its
railroad to the coast and also its chance to expand into the Indian country. Douglas thus became
the champion of a bill which would organize two new territories, Kansas and Nebraska, but which
would leave the settlers in each to decide whether slavery or free labor should prevail within
their boundaries. This territorial scheme was accepted by a Congress in which the Southerners
and their Northern allies held control, and what is known as the Kansas-Nebraska Bill was signed
by President Pierce on May 30,1854.*

     *The origin of the Kansas-Nebraska Bill has been a much
     discussed subject among historians in recent years.  The
     older view that Douglas was simply playing into the hands of
     the "slavepower" by sacrificing Kansas, is no longer
     tenable.  This point has been elaborated by Allen Johnson in
     his study of Douglas ("Stephen A. Douglas: a Study in
     American Politics").  In his "Repeal of the Missouri
     Compromise", P.O. Ray contends that the legislation of 1854
     originated in a factional controversy in Missouri, and that
     Douglas merely served the interests of the proslavery group
     led by Senator David R. Atchinson of Missouri.  Still
     another point of view is that presented in the "Genesis of
     the Kansas-Nebraska Act," by F. H. Hodder, who would explain
     not only the division of the Nebraska Territory into Kansas
     and Nebraska, but the object of the entire bill by the
     insistent efforts of promoters of the Pacific railroad
     scheme to secure a right of way through Nebraska.  This
     project involved the organization of a territorial
     government and the repeal of the Missouri Compromise.
     Douglas was deeply interested in the western railroad
     interests and carried through the necessary legislation.

CHAPTER II. THE PARTY OF POLITICAL EVASION

In order to understand Douglas one must understand the Democratic party of 1854 in which Douglas
was a conspicuous leader. The Democrats boasted that they were the only really national party
and contended that their rivals, the Whigs and the Know-Nothings, were merely the representatives
of localities or classes. Sectionalism was the favorite charge which the Democrats brought
against their enemies; and yet it was upon these very Democrats that the slaveholders had hitherto
relied, and it was upon certain members of this party that the label, "Northern men with Southern
principles," had been bestowed.

The label was not, however, altogether fair, for the motives of the Democrats were deeply rooted
in their own peculiar temperament. In the last analysis, what had held their organization together,
and what had enabled them to dominate politics for nearly the span of a generation, was their
faith in a principle that then appealed powerfully, and that still appeals, to much in the
American character. This was the principle of negative action on the part of the government--the
old idea that the government should do as little as possible and should confine itself practically
to the duties of the policeman. This principle has seemed always to express to the average
mind that traditional individualism which is an inheritance of the Anglo-Saxon race. In America,
in the middle of the nineteenth century, it reenforced that tradition of local independence
which was strong throughout the West and doubly strong in the South. Then, too, the Democratic
party still spoke the language of the theoretical Democracy inherited from Jefferson. And Americans
have always been the slaves of phrases!

Furthermore, the close alliance of the Northern party machine with the South made it, generally,
an object of care for all those Northern interests that depended on the Southern market. As
to the Southerners, their relation with this party has two distinct chapters. The first embraced
the twenty years preceding the Compromise of 1850, and may be thought of as merging into the
second during three or four years following the great equivocation. In that period, while the
antislavery crusade was taking form, the aim of Southern politicians was mainly negative. "Let
us alone," was their chief demand. Though aggressive in their policy, they were too far-sighted
to demand of the North any positive course in favor of slavery. The rise of a new type of Southern
politician, however, created a different situation and began a second chapter in the relation
between the South and the Democratic party machine in the North. But of that hereafter.

Until 1854, it was the obvious part of wisdom for Southerners to cooperate as far as possible
with that party whose cardinal idea was that the government should come as near as conceivable
to a system of non-interference; that it should not interfere with business, and therefore
oppose a tariff; that it should not interfere with local government, and therefore applaud
states rights; that it should not interfere with slavery, and therefore frown upon militant
abolition. Its policy was, to adopt a familiar phrase, one of masterly inactivity. Indeed it
may well be called the party of political evasion. It was a huge, loose confederacy of differing
political groups, embracing paupers and millionaires, moderate anti-slavery men and slave barons,
all of whom were held together by the unreliable bond of an agreement not to tread on each
other's toes.

Of this party Douglas was the typical representative, both in strength and weakness. He had
all its pliability, its good humor, its broad and easy way with things, its passion for playing
politics. Nevertheless, in calling upon the believers in political evasion to consent for this
once to reverse their principle and to endorse a positive action, he had taken a great risk.
Would their sporting sense of politics as a gigantic game carry him through successfully? He
knew that there was a hard fight before him, but with the courage of a great political strategist,
and proudly confident in his hold upon the main body of his party, he prepared for both the
attacks and the defections that were inevitable.

Defections, indeed, began at once. Even before the bill had been passed, the "Appeal of the
Independent Democrats" was printed in a New York paper, with the signatures of members of Congress
representing both the extreme anti-slavery wing of the Democrats and the organized Free-Soil
party. The most famous of these names were those of Chase and Sumner, both of whom had been
sent to the Senate by a coalition of Free-Soilers and Democrats. With them was the veteran
abolitionist, Giddings of Ohio. The "Appeal" denounced Douglas as an "unscrupulous politician"
and sounded both the warcries of the Northern masses by accusing him of being engaged in "an
atrocious plot to exclude from a vast unoccupied region immigrants from the Old World and free
laborers from our own States."

The events of the spring and summer of 1854 may all be grouped under two heads--the formation
of an anti-Nebraska party, and the quick rush of sectional patriotism to seize the territory
laid open by the Kansas-Nebraska Act. The instantaneous refusal of the Northerners to confine
their settlement to Nebraska, and their prompt invasion of Kansas; the similar invasion from
the South; the support of both movements by societies organized for that purpose; the war in
Kansas all the details of this thrilling story have been told elsewhere.* The political story
alone concerns us here.

     *See Jesse Macy, "The Anti-Slavery Crusade". (In "The
     Chronicles of America".)

When the fight began there were four parties in the field: the Democrats, the Whigs, the Free-Soilers,
and the Know-Nothings.

The Free-Soil party, hitherto a small organization, had sought to make slavery the main issue
in politics. It is needless to add that it was instantaneous in its opposition to the Kansas-Nebraska
Act.

The Whigs at the moment enjoyed the greatest prestige, owing to the association with them of
such distinguished leaders as Webster and Clay. In 1854, however, as a party they were dying,
and the very condition that had made success possible for the Democrats made it impossible
for the Whigs, because the latter stood for positive ideas, and aimed to be national in reality
and not in the evasive Democratic sense of the term. For, as a matter of fact, on analysis
all the greater issues of the day proved to be sectional. The Whigs would not, like the Democrats,
adopt a negative attitude toward these issues, nor would they consent to become merely sectional.
Yet at the moment negation and sectionalism were the only alternatives, and between these millstones
the Whig organization was destined to be ground to bits and to disappear after the next Presidential
election.

Even previous to 1854, numbers of Whigs had sought a desperate outlet for their desire to be
positive in politics and had created a new party which during a few years was to seem a reality
and then vanish together with its parent. The one chance for a party which had positive ideas
and which wished not to be sectional was the definite abandonment of existing issues and the
discovery of some new issue not connected with sectional feeling. Now, it happened that a variety
of causes, social and religious, had brought about bad blood between native and foreigner,
in some of the great cities, and upon the issue involved in this condition the failing spirit
of the Whigs fastened. A secret society which had been formed to oppose the naturalization
of foreigners quickly became a recognized political party. As the members of the Society answered
all questions with "I do not know," they came to be called "Know-Nothings," though they called
themselves "Americans." In those states where the Whigs had been strongest--Massachusetts,
New York, and Pennsylvania--this last attempt to apply their former temper, though not their
principles, had for a moment some success; but it could not escape the fierce division which
was forced on the country by Douglas. As a result, it rapidly split into factions, one of which
merged with the enemies of Douglas, while the other was lost among his supporters.

What would the great dying Whig party leave behind it? This was the really momentous question
in 1854. Briefly, this party bequeathed the temper of political positivism and at the same
time the dread of sectionalism. The inner clue to American politics during the next few years
is, to many minds, to be found largely in the union of this old Whig temper with a new-born
sectional patriotism, and, to other minds, in the gradual and reluctant passing of the Whig
opposition to a sectional party. But though this transformation of the wrecks of Whiggism began
immediately, and while the Kansas-Nebraska Bill was still being hotly debated in Congress,
it was not until 1860 that it was completed.

In the meantime various incidents had shown that the sectional patriotism of the North, the
fury of the abolitionists, and the positive temper in politics, were all drawing closer together.
Each of these tendencies can be briefly illustrated. For example, the rush to Kansas had begun,
and the Massachusetts Emigrant Aid Society was preparing to assist settlers who were going
west. In May, there occurred at Boston one of the most conspicuous attempts to rescue a fugitive
slave, in which a mob led by Thomas Wentworth Higginson attacked the guards of Anthony Burns,
a captured fugitive, killed one of them, but failed to get the slave, who was carried to a
revenue cutter between lines of soldiers and returned to slavery. Among numerous details of
the hour the burning of Douglas in effigy is perhaps worth passing notice. In duly the anti-Nebraska
men of Michigan held a convention, at which they organized as a political party and nominated
a state ticket. Of their nominees, two had hitherto ranked themselves as Free-Soilers, three
as anti-slavery Democrats, and five as Whigs.

The history of the next two years is, in its main outlines, the story of the war in Kansas
and of the spread of this new party throughout the North. It was only by degrees, however,
that the Republicans absorbed the various groups of anti-Nebraska men. What happened at this
time in Illinois may be taken as typical, and it is particularly noteworthy as revealing the
first real appearance of Abraham Lincoln in American history.

Though in 1854 he was not yet a national figure, Lincoln was locally accredited with keen political
insight, and was, regarded in Illinois as a strong lawyer. The story is told of him that, while
he was attending court on the circuit, he heard the news of the Kansas-Nebraska Act in a tavern
and sat up most of the night talking about it. Next morning he used a phrase destined to become
famous. "I tell you," said he to a fellow lawyer, "this nation cannot exist half slave and
half free."

Lincoln, however, was not one of the first to join the Republicans. In Illinois, in 1854, Lincoln
resigned his seat in the legislature to become the Whig candidate for United States senator,
to succeed the Democratic colleague of Douglas. But there was little chance of his election,
for the real contest was between the two wings of the Democrats, the Nebraska men and the anti-Nebraska
men, and Lincoln withdrew in favor of the candidate of the latter, who was elected.

During the following year, from the midst of his busy law practice, Lincoln watched the Whig
party go to pieces. He saw a great part of its vote lodge temporarily among the Know-Nothings,
but before the end of the year even they began to lose their prominence. In the autumn, from
the obscurity of his provincial life, he saw, far off, Seward, the most astute politician of
the day, join the new movement. In New York, the Republican state convention and the Whig state
convention merged into one, and Seward pronounced a baptismal oration upon the Republican party
of New York.

In the House of Representatives which met in December, 1855, the anti-Nebraska men were divided
among themselves, and the Know-Nothings held the balance of power. No candidate for the speakership,
however, was able to command a majority, and finally, after it had been agreed that a plurality
would be sufficient, the contest closed, on the one hundred and thirty-third ballot, with the
election of a Republican, N. P. Banks. Meanwhile in the South, the Whigs were rapidly leaving
the party, pausing a moment with the Know-Nothings, only to find that their inevitable resting-place,
under stress of sectional feeling, was with the Democrats.

On Washington's birthday, 1856, the Know-Nothing national convention met at Philadelphia. It
promptly split upon the subject of slavery, and a portion of its membership sent word offering
support to another convention which was sitting at Pittsburgh, and which had been called to
form a national organization for the Republican party. A third assembly held on this same day
was composed of the newspaper editors of Illinois, and may be looked upon as the organization
of the Republican party in that state. At the dinner following this informal convention, Lincoln,
who was one of the speakers, was toasted as "the next United States Senator."

Some four months afterward, in Philadelphia, the Republicans held their first national convention.
Only a few years previous its members had called themselves by various names--Democrats, Free-Soilers,
Know-Nothings, Whigs. The old hostilities of these different groups had not yet died out. Consequently,
though Seward was far and away the most eminent member of the new party, he was not nominated
for President. That dangerous honor was bestowed upon a dashing soldier and explorer of the
Rocky Mountains and the Far West, John C. Fremont.*

     *For an account of Fremont, see Stewart Edward White, "The
     Forty-Niners" (in "The Chronicles of America"), Chapter II.

The key to the political situation in the North, during that momentous year, was to be found
in the great number of able Whigs who, seeing that their own party was lost but refusing to
be sidetracked by the make-believe issue of the Know-Nothings, were now hesitating what to
do. Though the ordinary politicians among the Republicans doubtless wished to conciliate these
unattached Whigs, the astuteness of the leaders was too great to allow them to succumb to that
temptation. They seem to have feared the possible effect of immediately incorporating in their
ranks, while their new organization was still so plastic, the bulk of those conservative classes
which were, after all, the backbone of this irreducible Whig minimum.

The Republican campaign was conducted with a degree of passion that had scarcely been equaled
in America before that day. To the well-ordered spirit of the conservative classes the tone
which the Republicans assumed appeared shocking. Boldly sectional in their language, sweeping
in their denunciation of slavery, the leaders of the campaign made bitter and effective use
of a number of recent events. "Uncle Tom's Cabin", published in 1852, and already immensely
popular, was used as a political tract to arouse, by its gruesome picture of slavery, a hatred
of slaveholders. Returned settlers from Kansas went about the North telling horrible stories
of guerrilla warfare, so colored as to throw the odium all on one side. The scandal of the
moment was the attack made by Preston Brooks on Sumner, after the latter's furious diatribe
in the Senate, which was published as "The Crime Against Kansas". With double skill the Republicans
made equal capital out of the intellectual violence of the speech and the physical violence
of the retort. In addition to this, there was ready to their hands the evidence of Southern
and Democratic sympathy with a filibustering attempt to conquer the republic of Nicaragua,
where William Walker, an American adventurer, had recently made himself dictator. Walker had
succeeded in having his minister acknowledged by the Democratic Administration, and in obtaining
the endorsement of a great Democratic meeting which was held in New York. It looked, therefore,
as if the party of political evasion had an anchor to windward, and that, in the event of their
losing in Kansas, they intended to placate their Southern wing by the annexation of Nicaragua.

Here, indeed, was a stronger political tempest than Douglas, weatherwise though he was, had
foreseen. How was political evasion to brave it? With a courage quite equal to the boldness
of the Republicans, the Democrats took another tack and steered for less troubled waters. Their
convention at Cincinnati was temperate and discreet in all its expressions, and for President
it nominated a Northerner, James Buchanan of Pennsylvania, a man who was wholly dissociated
in the public mind from the struggle over Kansas.

The Democratic party leaders knew that they already had two strong groups of supporters. Whatever
they did, the South would have to go along with them, in its reaction against the furious sectionalism
of the Republicans. Besides the Southern support, the Democrats counted upon the aid of the
professional politicians--those men who considered politics rather as a fascinating game than
as serious and difficult work based upon principle. Upon these the Democrats could confidently
rely, for they already had, in Douglas in the North and Toombs in the South, two master politicians
who knew this type and its impulses intimately, because they themselves belonged to it. But
the Democrats needed the support of a third group. If they could only win over the Northern
remnant of the Whigs that was still unattached, their position would be secure. In their efforts
to obtain this additional and very necessary reinforcement, they decided to appear as temperate
and restrained as possible--a well bred party which all mild and conservative men could trust.

This attitude they formulated in connection with Kansas, which at that time had two governments:
one, a territorial government, set up by emigrants from the South; the other, a state government,
under the constitution drawn up at Topeka by emigrants from the North. One authorized slavery;
the other prohibited slavery; and both had appealed to Washington for recognition. It was with
this quite definite issue that Congress was chiefly concerned in the spring of 1856. During
the summer Toombs introduced a bill securing to the settlers of Kansas complete freedom of
action and providing for an election of delegates to a convention to draw up a state constitution
which would determine whether slavery or freedom was to prevail--in other words, whether Kansas
was to be annexed to the South or to the North. This bill was merely the full expression of
what Douglas had aimed at in 1854 and of what was nicknamed "popular sovereignty"--the right
of the locality to choose for itself between slave and free labor.

Two years before, such a measure would have seemed radical. But in politics time is wonderfully
elastic. Those two years had been packed with turmoil. Kansas had been the scene of a bloody
conflict. Regardless of which side had a majority on the ground, extremists on each side had
demanded recognition for the government set up by their own party. By contrast, Toombs's offer
to let the majority rule appeared temperate.

The Republicans saw instantly that they must discredit the proposal or the ground would be
cut from under them. Though the bill passed the Senate, they were able to set it aside in the
House in favor of a bill admitting Kansas as a free state with the Topeka constitution. The
Democrats thereupon accused the Republicans of not wanting peace and of wishing to keep up
the war-cry "Bleeding Kansas" until election time.

That, throughout the country, the two parties continued on the lines of policy they had chosen
may be seen from an illustration. A House committee which had gone to Kansas to investigate
submitted two reports, one of which, submitted by a Democratic member, told the true story
of the murders committed by John Brown at Pottawatomie. And yet, while the Republicans spread
everywhere their shocking tales of murders of free-state settlers, the Democrats made practically
no use of this equally shocking tale of the murder of slaveholders. Apparently they were resolved
to appear temperate and conservative to the bitter end.

And they had their reward. Or, perhaps the fury of the Republicans had its just deserts. From
either point of view, the result was a choice of evils on the part of the reluctant Whigs,
and that choice was expressed in the following words by as typical a New Englander as Rufus
Choate: "The first duty of Whigs," wrote Choate to the Maine State central committee, "is to
unite with some organization of our countrymen to defeat and dissolve the new geographical
party calling itself Republican.... The question for each and every one of us is...by what
vote can I do most to prevent the madness of the times from working its maddest act the very
ecstasy of its madness--the permanent formation and the actual triumph of a party which knows
one half of America only to hate and dread it. If the Republican party," Choate continued,
"accomplishes its object and gives the government to the North, I turn my eyes from the consequences.
To the fifteen states of the South that government will appear an alien government. It will
appear worse. It will appear a hostile government. It will represent to their eye a vast region
of states organized upon anti-slavery, flushed by triumph, cheered onward by the voice of the
pulpit, tribune, and press; its mission, to inaugurate freedom and put down the oligarchy;
its constitution, the glittering and sounding generalities of natural right which make up the
Declaration of Independence.... Practically the contest, in my judgment, is between Mr. Buchanan
and Colonel Fremont. In these circumstances, I vote for Mr. Buchanan."

The party of political evasion thus became the refuge of the old original Whigs who were forced
to take advantage of any port in a storm. Buchanan was elected by an overwhelming majority.
To the careless eye, Douglas had been justified by results; his party had triumphed as perhaps
never before; and yet, no great political success was ever based upon less stable foundations.
To maintain this position, those Northerners who reasoned as Choate did were a necessity; but
to keep them in the party of political evasion would depend upon the ability of this party
to play the game of politics without acknowledging sectional bias. Whether this difficult task
could be accomplished would depend upon the South. Toombs, on his part, was anxious to continue
making the party of evasion play the great American game of politics, and in his eagerness
he perhaps overestimated his hold upon the South. This, however, remains to be seen.

Already another faction had formed around William L. Yancey of Alabama--a faction as intolerant
of political evasion as the Republicans themselves, and one that was eager to match the sectional
Northern party by a sectional Southern party. It had for the moment fallen into line with the
Toombs faction because, like the Whigs, it had not the courage to do otherwise. The question
now was whether it would continue fearful, and whether political evasion would continue to reign.

The key to the history of the next four years is in the growth of this positive Southern party,
which had the inevitable result of forcing the Whig remainder to choose, not as in 1856 between
a positive sectional policy and an evasive nonsectional policy, but in 1860 between two policies
both of which were at once positive and sectional.

CHAPTER III. THE POLITICIANS AND THE NEW DAY

The South had thus far been kept in line with the cause of political evasion by a small group
of able politicians, chief among whom were Robert Toombs, Howell Cobb, and Alexander H. Stephens.
Curiously enough all three were Georgians, and this might indeed be called the day of Georgia
in the history of the South.

A different type of man, however, and one significant of a divergent point of view, had long
endeavored to shake the leadership of the Georgian group. Rhett in South Carolina, Jefferson
Davis in Mississippi, and above all Yancey in Alabama, together with the interests and sentiment
which they represented, were almost ready to contest the orthodoxy of the policy of "nothing
doing." To consolidate the interests behind them, to arouse and fire the sentiment on which
they relied, was now the confessed purpose of these determined men. So little attention has
hitherto been given to motive in American politics that the modern student still lacks a clear-cut
and intelligent perception of these various factions. In spite of this fact, however, these
men may safely be regarded as being distinctly more intellectual, and as having distinctly
deeper natures, than the men who came together under the leadership of Toombs and Cobb, and
who had the true provincial enthusiasm for politics as the great American sport.

The factions of both Toombs and Yancey were intensely Southern and, whenever a crisis might
come, neither meant to hesitate an instant over striking hard for the South. Toombs, however,
wanted to prevent such a situation, while Yancey was anxious to force one. The former conceived
felicity as the joy of playing politics on the biggest stage, and he therefore bent all his
strength to preserving the so-called national parties; the latter, scornful of all such union,
was for a separate Southern community.

Furthermore, no man could become enthusiastic about political evasion unless by nature he also
took kindly to compromise. So, Toombs and his followers were for preserving the negative Democratic
position of 1856. In a formal paper of great ability Stephens defended that position when he
appeared for reelection to Congress in 1857. Cobb, who had entered Buchanan's Cabinet as Secretary
of the Treasury, and who spoke hopefully of making Kansas a slave state, insisted nevertheless
that such a change must be "brought about by the recognized principles of carrying out the
will of the majority which is the great doctrine of the Kansas Bill." To Yancey, as to the
Republicans, Kansas was a disputed border-land for which the so-called two nations were fighting.

The internal Southern conflict between these two factions began anew with the Congressional
elections of 1857. It is worth observing that the make-up of these factions was almost a resurrection
of the two groups which, in 1850, had divided the South on the question of rejecting the Compromise.
In a letter to Stephens in reference to one of the Yancey men, Cobb prophesied: "McDonald will
utterly fail to get up a new Southern Rights party. Burnt children dread the fire, and he cannot
get up as strong an organization as he did in 1850. Still it is necessary to guard every point,
as McDonald is a hard hand to deal with." For the moment, he foretold events correctly. The
Southern elections of 1857 did not break the hold of the moderates.

Yancey turned to different machinery, quite as useful for his purpose. This he found in the
Southern commercial conventions, which were held annually. At this point there arises a vexed
question which has, of late, aroused much discussion. Was there then what we should call today
a slave "interest"? Was organized capital deliberately exploiting slavery? And did Yancey play
into its hands?* The truth seems to be that, between 1856 and 1860, both the idealist parties,
the Republicans and the Secessionists, made peace with, shall we say, the Mammon of unrighteousness,
or merely organized capital? The one joined hands with the iron interest of the North; the
other, with the slave interest of the South. The Republicans preached the domination of the
North and a protective tariff; the Yancey men preached the independence of the South and the
reopening of the slave trade.

     * For those who would be persuaded that there was such a
     slave interest, perhaps the best presentation is to be found
     in Professor Dodd's Life of Jefferson Davis. That great body of Northern capital which had dealings with
the South was ready, as it always had been, to finance any scheme that
Southern business desired. Slavers were fitted out in New York, and
the city authorities did not prevent their sailing. Against this somber
background stands forth that much admired action of Lewis Cass of
Michigan, Buchanan's Secretary of State. Already the slave trade was
in process of revival, and the British Navy, impelled by the powerful
anti-slavery sentiment in England, was active in its suppression.
American ships suspected of being slavers were visited and searched.
Cass seized his opportunity, and declaring that such things "could not
be submitted to by an independent nation without dishonor," sent out
American warships to prevent this interference. Thereupon the British
government consented to give up trying to police the ocean against
slavers. It is indeed true, therefore, that neither North nor South has
an historical monopoly of the support of slavery!

It is but fair to add that, so far as the movement to reopen the slave trade found favor outside
the slave barons and their New York allies, it was advocated as a means of political defense,
of increasing Southern population as an offset to the movement of free emigration into the
North, and of keeping the proportion of Southern representation in Congress. Stephens, just
after Cass had successfully twisted the lion's tail, took this position in a speech that caused
a sensation. In a private letter he added, "Unless we get immigration from abroad, we shall
have few more slave states. This great truth seems to take the people by surprise. Some shrink
from it as they would from death. Still, it is as true as death." The scheme, however, never
received general acceptance; and in the constitution of the Southern Confederacy there was
a section prohibiting the African slave trade. On the other of these two issues--the independence
of the South--Yancey steadily gained ground. With each year from 1856 to 1860, a larger proportion
of Southerners drew out of political evasion and gave adherence to the idea of presenting an
ultimatum to the North, with secession as an alternative.

Meanwhile, Buchanan sent to Kansas, as Governor, Robert J. Walker, one of the most astute of
the Democrats of the opposite faction and a Mississippian. The tangled situation which Walker
found, the details of his attempt to straighten it out, belong in another volume.* It is enough
in this connection merely to mention the episode of the Lecompton convention in the election
of which the Northern settlers refused to participate, though Walker had promised that they
should have full protection and a fair count as well as that the work of the convention should
be submitted to a popular vote. This action of Walker's was one more cause of contention between
the warring factions in the South. The fact that he had met the Northerners half-way was seized
upon by the Yancey men as evidence of the betrayal of the South by the Democratic moderates.
On the other hand, Cobb, writing of the situation in Kansas, said that "a large majority are
against slavery and... our friends regard the fate of Kansas as a free state pretty well fixed...
the pro-slavery men, finding that Kansas was likely to become a Black Republican State, determined
to unite with the free-state Democrats." Here is the clue to Walker's course. As a strict party
man, he preferred to accept Kansas free, with Democrats in control, rather than risk losing
it altogether.

     * See Jesse Macy, "The Anti-Slavery Crusade".  (In "The
     Chronicles of America".)

The next step in the affair is one of the unsolved problems in American history. Buchanan suddenly
changed front, disgraced Walker, and threw himself into the arms of the Southern extremists.
Though his reasons for doing so have been debated to this day, they have not yet been established
beyond dispute. What seems to be the favorite explanation is that Buchanan was in a panic.
What brought him to that condition may have been the following events.

The free-state men, by refusing to take part in electing the convention, had given control
to the slaveholders, who proved they were not slow to seize their opportunity. They drew up
a constitution favoring slavery, but this constitution, Walker had promised, was to be submitted
in referendum. If the convention decided, however, not to submit the constitution, would not
Congress have the right to accept it and admit Kansas as a Mate? This question was immediately
raised. It now became plain that, by refusing to take part in the election, the free-state
Kansans had thrown away a great tactical advantage. Of this blunder in generalship the Yancey
men took instant advantage. It was known that the proportion of Free-Soilers in Kansas was
very great--perhaps a majority--and the Southerners reasoned that they should not be obliged
to give up the advantage they had won merely to let their enemies retrieve their mistake. Jefferson
Davis formulated this position in an address to the Mississippi Legislature in which he insisted
that Congress, not the Kansas electorate, was entitled to create the Kansas constitution, that
the Convention was a properly chosen body, and that its work should stand. What Davis said
in a stately way, others said in a furious way. Buchanan stated afterward that he changed front
because certain Southern States had threatened that, if he did not abandon Walker, they would
secede.

Be that as it may, Buchanan did abandon Walker and threw all the influence of the Administration
in favor of admitting Kansas with the Lecompton constitution. But would this be true to that
principle of "popular sovereignty" which was the very essence of the Kansas-Nebraska Act? Would
it be true to the principle that each locality should decide for itself between slavery and
freedom? On this issue the Southerners were fairly generally agreed and maintained that there
was no obligation to go behind the work of the convention. Not so, however, the great exponent
of popular sovereignty, Douglas. Rising in his place in the Senate, he charged the President
with conspiring to defeat the will of the majority in Kansas.

There followed one of those prolonged legislative battles for which the Congress of the United
States is justly celebrated. Furious oratory, propositions, counter-propositions, projected
compromises, other compromises, and at the end nothing positive. But Douglas had defeated the
attempt to bring in Kansas with the Lecompton constitution. As to the details of the story,
they include such distinguished happenings as a brawling, all-night session when "thirty men,
at least, were engaged in the fisticuff," and one Representative knocked another down.

Douglas was again at the center of the stage, but his term as Senator was nearing its end.
He and the President had split their party. Pursued by the vengeful malice of the Administration,
Douglas went home in 1858 to Illinois to fight for his reelection. His issue, of course, was
popular sovereignty. His temper was still the temper of political evasion. How to hold fast
to his own doctrine, and at the same time keep to his programme of "nothing doing"; how to
satisfy the negative Democrats of the North without losing his last hold on the positive men
of the South--such were his problems, and they were made still more difficult by a recent decision
of the Supreme Court.

The now famous case of Dred Scott had been decided in the previous year. Its bewildering legal
technicalities may here be passed over; fundamentally, the real question involved was the status
of a negro, Dred Scott. A slave who had been owned in Missouri, and who had been taken by his
master to the State of Illinois, to the free territory of Minnesota, and then back to Missouri,
now claimed to be free. The Supreme Court undertook to decide whether his residence in Minnesota
rendered him free, and also whether any negro of slave descent could be a citizen of the United
States. The official opinion of the Court, delivered by Chief Justice Taney, decided both questions
against the suppliant. It was held that the "citizens" recognized by the Constitution did not
include negroes. So, even if Scott were free, he could not be considered a citizen entitled
to bring suit in the Federal Courts. Furthermore, he could not be considered free, in spite
of his residence in Minnesota, because, as the Court now ruled, Congress, when it enacted the
Missouri Compromise, had exceeded its authority; the enactment had never really been in force;
there was no binding prohibition of slavery in the Northwestern territories.

If this decision was good law, all the discussion about popular sovereignty went for nothing,
and neither an act of Congress nor the vote of the population of a territory, whether for or
against slavery, was of any value whatsoever. Nothing mattered until the newmade state itself
took action after its admission to the Union. Until that time, no power, national or local,
could lawfully interfere with the introduction of slaves. In the case of Kansas, it was no
longer of the least importance what became of the Lecompton constitution or of any other that
the settlers might make. The territory was open to settlement by slaveholders and would continue
to be so as long as it remained a territory. The same conditions existed in Nebraska and in
all the Northwest. The Dred Scott decision was accepted as orthodox Democratic doctrine by
the South, by the Administration, and by the "Northern men with Southern principles." The astute
masters of the game of politics on the Democratic side struck the note of legality. This was
law, the expression of the highest tribunal of the Republic; what more was to be said? Though
in truth there was but one other thing to be said, and that revolutionary, the Republicans,
nevertheless, did not falter over it. Seward announced it in a speech in Congress on "Freedom
in Kansas," when he uttered this menace: "We shall reorganize the Court and thus reform its
political sentiments and practices."

In the autumn of 1858 Douglas attempted to perform the acrobatic feat of reconciling the Dred
Scott decision, which as a Democrat he had to accept, with that idea of popular sovereignty
without which his immediate followers could not be content.

No one had ever so tellingly expressed the death-grapple of the sections: slavery the weapon
of one, free labor the weapon of the other. Though Lincoln was at that time forty-nine years
old, his political experience, in contrast with that of Douglas, was negligible. He afterward
aptly described his early life in that expressive line from Gray, "The short and simple annals
of the poor." He lacked regular schooling, and it was altogether from the practice of law that
he had gained such formal education as he had. In law, however, he had become a master, and
his position, to judge from the class of cases entrusted to him, was second to none in Illinois.
To that severe yet wholesome cast of mind which the law establishes in men naturally lofty,
Lincoln added the tonic influence of a sense of style--not the verbal acrobatics of a rhetorician,
but that power to make words and thought a unit which makes the artist of a man who has great
ideas. How Lincoln came by this literary faculty is, indeed, as puzzling as how Burns came
by it. But there it was, disciplined by the court room, made pungent by familiarity with plain
people, stimulated by constant reading of Shakespeare, and chastened by study of the Bible.

It was arranged that Douglas and Lincoln should tour the State together in a series of joint
debates. As a consequence there followed a most interesting opposition of methods in the use
of words, a contest between the method formed in Congress at a time when Congress was a perfect
rhetorical academy, and that method of using words which was based on an arduous study of Blackstone,
Shakespeare, and Isaiah. Lincoln issued from the debates one of the chief intellectual leaders
of America, and with a place in English literature; Douglas came out a Senator from Illinois.

But though Douglas kept his following together, and though Lincoln was voted down, to Lincoln
belonged the real strategic victory. In order to save himself with his own people, Douglas
had been forced to make admissions that ruined him with the South. Because of these admissions
the breach in the party of political evasion became irreparable.

Douglas answered in his best style of political thunder.

As to the moral aspect of his actions, Douglas must ultimately be judged by the significance
which this position in which he placed himself assumed in his own mind. Friendly critics excuse
him: an interpretation of the Dred Scott decision which explained it away as an irresponsible
utterance on a subject outside the scope of the case, a mere obiter dictum, is the justification
which is called in to save him from the charge of insincerity. His friends, today, admit that
this interpretation was bad law, but maintain that it may have been good morals, and that Douglas
honestly held it. But many of us have not yet advanced so far in critical generosity, and cannot
help feeling that Douglas's position remains political legerdemain--an attempt by a great officer
of the government, professing to defend the Supreme Court, to show the people how to go through
the motions of obedience to the Court while defeating its intention. If not double-dealing
in a strict sense, it must yet be considered as having in it the temper of double-dealing.*
This was, indeed, the view of many men of his own day and, among them, of Lincoln. Yet the
type of man on whom the masters of the game of politics relied saw nothing in Douglas's position
at which to be disturbed. It was merely playing politics, and if that absorbing sport required
one to carry water on both shoulders, why--play the game! Douglas was the man for people like
that. They cheered him to the echo and sent him back to the Senate. So well was this type understood
by some of Lincoln's friends that they had begged him, at least according to tradition, not
to put the question at Freeport, as by doing so he would enable Douglas to save himself with
his constituency. Lincoln saw further, however. He understood better than they the forces then
at work in America. The reply reported of him was: "If Douglas answers, he can never be President,
and the battle of 1860 is worth a hundred of this."

     * There are three ways of regarding Douglas's position: (1)
     As a daring piece of evasion designed to hold all the
     Democrats together; (2) as an attempt to secure his locality
     at all costs, taking his chances on the South; (3) as a
     sincere expression of the legal interpretation mentioned
     above.  It is impossible in attempting to choose among these
     to escape wholly one's impression of the man's character.

Well might Yancey and his followers receive with a shout of joy the "Freeport Doctrine," as
Douglas's supreme evasion was called. Should Southerners trust any longer the man who had evolved
from the principle of let-'em-alone to the principle of double-dealing? However, the Southerners
were far from controlling the situation. Though the events of 1858 had created discord in the
Democratic party, they had not consolidated the South. Men like Toombs and Stephens were still
hopeful of keeping the States together in the old bond of political evasion. The Democratic
machine, damaged though it was, had not yet lost its hold on the moderate South, and while
that continued to be the case, there was still power in it.

CHAPTER IV. THE CRISIS

The Southern moderates in 1859 form one of those political groups, numerous enough in history,
who at a crisis arrest our imagination because of the irony of their situation. Unsuspecting,
these men went their way, during the last summer of the old regime, busy with the ordinary
affairs of state, absorbed in their opposition to the Southern radicals, never dreaming of
the doom that was secretly moving toward them through the plans of John Brown. In the soft
brilliancy of the Southern summer when the roses were in bloom, many grave gentlemen walked
slowly up and down together under the oaks of their plantation avenues, in the grateful dusk,
talking eagerly of how the scales trembled in Southern politics between Toombs and Yancey,
and questioning whether the extremists could ride down the moderate South and reopen the slave
trade. In all their wondering whether Douglas would ever come back to them or would prove the
blind Samson pulling down their temple about their ears, there was never a word about the approaching
shadow which was so much more real than the shades of the falling night, and yet so entirely
shut away from their observation.

In this summer, Stephens withdrew as he thought from public life. With an intensely sensitive
nature, he had at times flashes of strange feeling which an unsophisticated society would regard
as prophetic inspirations. When he left Washington "on the beautiful morning of the 5th of
March, 1859, he stood at the stern of the boat for some minutes gazing back at the capital."
He had announced his intention of not standing again as a Representative, and one of his fellow-passengers
asked jokingly whether he was thinking of his return as a Senator. Stephen's reply was full
of emotion, "No, I never expect to see Washington again unless I am brought here as a prisoner
of war." During the summer he endeavored to cast off his intuition of approaching disaster.
At his plantation, "Liberty Hall," he endeavored to be content with the innumerable objects
associated with his youth; he tried to feel again the grace of the days that were gone, the
mysterious loveliness of the Southern landscape with its immense fields, its forests, its great
empty spaces filled with glowing sunshine. He tried to possess his troubled soul with the severe
intellectual ardor of the law. But his gift of second sight would not rest. He could not overcome
his intuition that, for all the peace and dreaminess of the outward world, destiny was upon
him. Looking out from his spiritual seclusion, he beheld what seemed to him complete political
confusion, both local and national. His despairing mood found expression a little later in
the words: "Indeed if we were now to have a Southern convention to determine upon the true
policy of the South either in the Union or out of it, I should expect to see just as much profitless
discussion, disagreement, crimination, and recrimination amongst the members of it from different
states and from the same state, as we witness in the present House of Representatives between
Democrats, Republicans, and Americans."

Among the sources of confusion Stephens saw, close at home, was the Southern battle over the
reopening of the slave trade. The reality of that issue had been made plain in May, 1859, when
the Southern commercial congress at Vicksburg entertained at the same time two resolutions:
one, that the convention should urge all Southern States to amend their constitutions by a
clause prohibiting the increase of African slavery; the other, that the convention urge all
the Legislatures of Southern States to present memorials to Congress asking the repeal of the
law against African slave trade. Of these opposed resolutions, the latter was adopted on the
last day of the convention*, though the moderates fought hard against it.

     *It is significant that the composition of these Southern
     commercial congresses and the Congress of the whole Southern
     people was strikingly different in personnel.  Very few
     members of the commercial congresses reappear in the
     Confederate Congress.

The split between Southern moderates and Southern radicals was further indicated by their differing
attitudes toward the adventurers from the United States in Central America. The Vicksburg Convention
adopted resolutions which were thinly veiled endorsements of southward expansion. In the early
autumn another Nicaraguan expedition was nipped in the bud by the vigilance of American naval
forces. Cobb, prime factor in the group of Southern moderates as well as Secretary of the Treasury,
wrote to Buchanan expressing his satisfaction at the event, mentioning the work of his own
department in bringing it about, and also alluding to his arrangements to prevent slave trading
off the Florida coast.

But the spirit of doubt was strong even among the moderates. Douglas was the target. Stephens
gives a glimpse of it in a letter written during his last session in Congress. "Cobb called
on me Saturday night," he writes. "He is exceedingly bitter against Douglas. I joked him a
good deal, and told him he had better not fight, or he would certainly be whipped; that is,
in driving Douglas out of the Democratic party. He said that if Douglas ever was restored to
the confidence of the Democracy of Georgia, it would be over his dead body politically. This
shows his excitement, that is all. I laughed at him, and told him he would run his feelings
and his policy into the ground." The anger of Cobb, who was himself a confessed candidate for
the Democratic nomination, was imperiling the Democratic national machine which Toombs was
still struggling so resolutely to hold together. Indeed, as late as the autumn of 1859 the
machine still held together.

Then came the man of destiny, the bolt from the blue, the end of the chapter. A marvelous fanatic--a
sort of reincarnation of the grimmest of the Covenanters--by one daring act shattered the machine
and made impossible any further coalition on the principle of "nothing doing." This man of
destiny was John Brown, whose attack on Harper's Ferry took place October 16th, and whose execution
by the authorities of Virginia on the charges of murder and treason occurred on the 2nd of
December.

The incident filled the South with consternation. The prompt condemnation of it by many Republican
leaders did not offset, in the minds of Southerners, the fury of praise accorded by others.
The South had a ghastly tradition derived chiefly from what is known as Nat Turner's Rebellion
in Virginia, a tradition of the massacre of white women and children by negroes. As Brown had
set opt to rouse a slave rebellion, every Southerner familiar with his own traditions shuddered,
identifying in imagination John Brown and Nat Turner. Horror became rage when the Southerners
heard of enthusiastic applause in Boston and of Emerson's description of Brown as "that new
saint" who was to "make the gallows glorious like the cross." In the excitement produced by
remarks such as this, justice was not done to Lincoln's censure. A few months afterwards, the
Republican national convention condemned the act of Brown as "among the gravest of crimes."

An immediate effect of the John Brown episode was a passionate outburst from all the radical
press of the South in defense of slavery. The followers of Yancey made the most of their opportunity.
The men who voted at Vicksburg to reopen the slave trade could find no words to measure their
hatred of every one who, at this moment of crisis, would not declare slavery a blessing. Many
of the men who opposed the slave traders also felt that, in the face of possible slave insurrection,
the peril of their families was the one paramount consideration. Nevertheless, it is easy for
the special pleader to give a wrong impression of the sentiment of the time. A grim desire
for self-preservation took possession of the South, as well as a deadly fear of any person
or any thing that tended directly or indirectly to incite the blacks to insurrection. Northerners
of abolitionist sympathies were warned to leave the country, and in some cases they were tarred
and feathered.

Great anger was aroused by the detection of book-agents who were distributing a furious polemic
against slavery, "The Impending Crisis of the South: How to Meet It", by Hinton Rowan Helper,
a Southerner of inferior social position belonging to the class known as poor whites. The book
teemed with such sentences as this, addressing slaveholders: "Do you aspire to become victims
of white non-slave-holding vengeance by day and of barbarous massacres by the negroes at night?"
It is scarcely strange, therefore, that in 1859 no Southerner would hear a good word of anyone
caught distributing the book. And yet, in the midst of all this vehement exaltation of slavery,
the fight to prevent a reopening of the slave trade went bravely on. Stephens, writing to a
friend who was correspondent for the "Southern Confederacy", in Atlanta, warned him in April,
1860, "neither to advocate disunion or the opening of the slave trade. The people here at present
I believe are as much opposed to it as they are at the North; and I believe the Northern people
could be induced to open it sooner than the Southern people."

The winter of 1859-1860 witnessed a famous congressional battle over the speakership. The new
Congress which met in December contained 109 Republicans, 101 Democrats, and 27 Know-Nothings.
The Republican candidate for speaker was John Sherman of Ohio. As the first ballot showed that
he could not command a majority, a Democrat from Missouri introduced this resolution "Whereas
certain members of this House, now in nomination for speaker, did endorse the book hereinafter
mentioned, resolved, That the doctrines and sentiments of a certain book, called 'The Impending
Crisis of the South: How to Meet It', are insurrectionary and hostile to the peace and tranquillity
of the country, and that no member of this House, who has indorsed or recommended it, is fit
to be speaker of the House."

During two months there were strange scenes in the House, while the clerk acted as temporary
speaker and furious diatribes were thundered back and forth across the aisle that separated
Republicans from Democrats, with a passage of fisticuffs or even a drawn pistol to add variety
to the scene. The end of it all was a deal. Pennington, of the "People's Party" of New Jersey,
who had supported Sherman but had not endorsed Helper, was given the Republican support; a
Know-Nothing was made sergeant-at-arms; and Know-Nothing votes added to the Republican votes
made Pennington speaker. In many Northern cities the news of his election was greeted with
the great salute of a hundred guns, but at Richmond the papers came out in mourning type.

Two great figures now advanced to the center of the Congressional stage--Jefferson Davis, Senator
from Mississippi, a lean eagle of a man with piercing blue eyes, and Judah P. Benjamin, Senator
from Louisiana, whose perpetual smile cloaked an intellect that was nimble, keen, and ruthless.
Both men were destined to play leading roles in the lofty drama of revolution; each was to
experience a tragic ending of his political hope, one in exile, the other in a solitary proscription
amid the ruins of the society for which he had sacrificed his all. These men, though often
spoken of as mere mouthpieces of Yancey, were in reality quite different from him both in temper
and in point of view.

Davis, who was destined eventually to become the target of Yancey's bitterest enmity, had refused
ten years before to join in the secession movement which ignored Calhoun's doctrine that the
South had become a social unit. Though a believer in slavery under the conditions of the moment,
Davis had none of the passion of the slave baron for slavery at all costs. Furthermore, as
events were destined to show in a startlingly dramatic way, he was careless of South Carolina's
passion for state rights. He was a practical politician, but not at all the old type of the
party of political evasion, the type of Toombs. No other man of the moment was on the whole
so well able to combine the elements of Southern politics against those more negative elements
of which Toombs was the symbol. The history of the Confederacy shows that the combination which
Davis now effected was not as thorough as he supposed it was. But at the moment he appeared
to succeed and seemed to give common purpose to the vast majority of the Southern people. With
his ally Benjamin, he struck at the Toombs policy of a National Democratic party.

On the day following the election of Pennington, Davis introduced in the Senate a series of
resolutions which were to serve as the Southern ultimatum, and which demanded of Congress the
protection of slavery against territorial legislatures. This was but carrying to its logical
conclusion that Dred Scott decision which Douglas and his followers proposed to accept. If
Congress could not restrict slavery in the territories, how could its creature, a territorial
legislature do so? And yet the Douglas men attempted to take away the power from Congress and
to retain it for the territorial legislatures. Senator Pugh of Ohio had already locked horns
with Davis on this point, and had attempted to show that a territorial Legislature was independent
of Congress. "Then I would ask the Senator further," retorted the logical Davis, "why it is
he makes an appropriation to pay members of the territorial legislature; how it is that he
invests the Governor with veto power over their acts; and how it is that he appoints judges
to decide upon the validity of their acts."

In the Democratic convention which met at Charleston in April, 1860, the waning power of political
evasion made its last real stand against the rising power of political positivism. To accept
Douglas and the idea that somehow territorial legislatures were free to do what Congress could
not do, or to reject Douglas and endorse Davis's ultimatum--that in substance was the issue.
"In this convention where there should be confidence and harmony," said the "Charleston Mercury",
"it is plain that men feel as if they were going into a battle." In the committee on resolutions
where the States were equally represented, the majority were anti-Douglas; they submitted a
report affirming Davis's position that territorial legislatures had no right to prohibit slavery
and that the Federal Government should protect slavery against them. The minority refused to
go further than an approval of the Dred Scott case and a pledge to abide by all future decisions
of the Supreme Court. After both reports had been submitted, there followed the central event
of the convention--the now famous speech by Yancey which repudiated political evasion from
top to bottom, frankly defended slavery, and demanded either complete guarantees for its continued
existence or, as an alternative, Southern independence. Pugh instantly replied and summed up
Yancey's speech as a demand upon Northern Democrats to say that slavery was right, and that
it was their duty not only to let slavery alone but to aid in extending it. "Gentlemen of the
South," he exclaimed, "you mistake us--you mistake us--we will not do it."

In the full convention, where the representation of the States was not equal, the Douglas men,
after hot debate, forced the adoption of the minority report. Thereupon the Alabama delegation
protested and formally withdrew from the convention, and other delegations followed. There
was wild excitement in Charleston, where that evening in the streets Yancey addressed crowds
that cheered for a Southern republic. The remaining history of the Democratic nominations is
a matter of detail. The Charleston convention adjourned without making nominations. Each of
its fragments reorganized as a separate convention, and ultimately two Democratic tickets were
put into the field, with Breckinridge of Kentucky as the candidate on the Yancey ticket and
Douglas on the other.

While the Democrats were thus making history through their fateful break-up into separate parties,
a considerable number of the so-called best people of the country determined that they had
nowhere politically to lay their heads. A few of the old Whigs were still unable to consort
either with Republicans or with Democrats, old or new. The Know-Nothings, likewise, though
their number had been steadily melting away, had not entirely disappeared. To unite these political
remnants in any definite political whole seemed beyond human ingenuity. A common sentiment,
however, they did have--a real love of the Union and a real unhappiness, because its existence
appeared to be threatened. The outcome was that they organized the Constitutional Union Party,
nominating for President John Bell of Tennessee, and for Vice President Edward Everett of Massachusetts.
Their platform was little more than a profession of love of the Union and a condemnation of
sectional selfishness.

This Bell and Everett ticket has a deeper significance than has generally been admitted. It
reveals the fact that the sentiment of Union, in distinction from the belief in the Union,
had become a real force in American life. There could be no clearer testimony to the strength
of this feeling than this spectacle of a great congregation of moderate people, unable to agree
upon anything except this sentiment, stepping between the sectional parties like a resolute
wayfarer going forward into darkness along a perilous strand between two raging seas. That
this feeling of Union was the same thing as the eager determination of the Republicans, in
1860, to control the Government is one of those historical fallacies that have had their day.
The Republican party became, in time and under stress of war, the refuge of this sentiment
and proved sufficiently far-sighted to merge its identity temporarily in the composite Union
party of 1864. But in 1860 it was still a sectional party. Among its leaders Lincoln was perhaps
the only Unionist in the same sense as Bell and Everett.

Perhaps the truest Unionists of the North, outside the Constitutional Union Party, in 1860,
were those Democrats in the following of Douglas who, after fighting to the last ditch against
both the sectional parties, were to accept, in 1861, the alternative of war rather than dissolution.
The course of Douglas himself, as we shall see hereafter, showed that in his mind there was
a fixed limit of concession beyond which he could not go. When circumstances forced him to
that limit, the sentiment of Union took control of him, swept aside his political jugglery,
abolished his time-serving, and drove him into cooperation with his bitterest foes that the
Union might be saved. Nor was the pure sentiment of Union confined to the North and West. Though
undoubtedly the sentiment of locality was more powerful through the South, yet when the test
came in the election of 1860, the leading candidate of the upper South, in Virginia, Kentucky,
and Tennessee, was John Bell, the Constitutional Unionist. In every Southern State this sentiment
was able to command a considerable part of the vote.*

     *A possible exception was South Carolina.  As the
     presidential electors were appointed by the legislature,
     there is no certain record of minority sentiment.

Widely different in temper were those stern and resolute men whose organization, in perfect
fighting trim, faced eagerly the divided Democrats. The Republicans had no division among themselves
upon doctrine. Such division as existed was due to the ordinary rivalry of political leaders.
In the opinion of all his enemies and of most Americans, Seward was the Republican man of the
hour. During much of 1859 he had discreetly withdrawn from the country and had left to his
partisans the conduct of his campaign, which seems to have been going well when he returned
in the midst of the turmoil following the death of John Brown. Nevertheless he was disturbed
over his prospects, for he found that in many minds, both North and South, he was looked upon
as the ultimate cause of all the turmoil. His famous speech on the "irrepressible conflict"
was everywhere quoted as an exultant prophecy of these terrible latter days.

It was long the custom to deny to Seward any good motive in a speech which he now delivered,
just as it was to deny Webster any good motive for his famous 7th of March speech. But such
criticism is now less frequent than it used to be. Both men were seeking the Presidency; both,
we may fairly believe, were shocked by the turmoil of political currents; each tried oiling
the waters, and in the attempt each ruined his candidacy. Seward's speech in condemnation of
John Brown in February, 1860, was an appeal to the conservative North against the radical North,
and to many of his followers it seemed a change of front. It certainly gained him no new friends
and it lost him some old ones, so that his star as a presidential candidate began its decline.

The first ballot in the Republican convention surprised the country. Of the votes, 233 were
necessary for a choice. Seward had only 173 1/2. Next to him, with 102 votes, stood none of
the leading candidates, but the comparatively obscure Lincoln. A gap of more than 50 votes
separated Lincoln from Cameron, Chase, and Bates. On the second ballot Seward gained 11 votes,
while Lincoln gained 79. The enemies of Seward, finding it impossible to combine on any of
the conspicuous candidates, were moving toward Lincoln, the man with fewest enemies. The third
ballot gave Lincoln the nomination.

We have seen that one of the basal questions of the time was which new political group should
absorb the Whig remainder. The Constitutional Union party aimed to accomplish this. The Republicans
sought to out-maneuver them. They made their platform as temperate as they could and yet consistent
with the maintenance of their opposition to Douglas and popular sovereignty; and they went
no further in their anti-slavery demands than that the territories should be preserved for
free labor.

Another basal question had been considered in the Republican platform. Where would Northern
capital stand in the reorganization of parties? Was capital, like men, to become frankly sectional
or would it remain impersonal, careless how nations rose or fell, so long as dividends continued?
To some extent capital had given an answer. When, in the excitement following the John Brown
incident, a Southern newspaper published a white list of New York merchants whose political
views should commend them to Southerners, and a black list of those who were objectionable,
many New Yorkers sought a place in the white list. Northern capital had done its part in financing
the revived slave trade. August Belmont, the New York representative of the Rothschilds, was
one of the close allies of Davis, Yancey, and Benjamin in their war upon Douglas. In a word,
a great portion of Northern capital had its heart where its investments were--in the South.
But there was other capital which obeyed the same law, and which had investments in the North;
and with this capital the Republicans had been trafficking. They had succeeded in winning over
the powerful manufacturing interests of Pennsylvania, the pivotal State that had elected Buchanan
in 1856.

The steps by which the new party of enthusiasm made its deal with the body of capital which
was not at one with Belmont and the Democrats are not essential to the present narrative. Two
facts suffice. In 1857 a great collapse in American business--"the panic of fifty-seven"--led
the commercial world to turn to the party in power for some scheme of redress. But their very
principles, among which was non-intervention in business, made the Democrats feeble doctors
for such a need, and they evaded the situation. The Republicans, with their insistence on positivism
in government, had therefore an opportunity to make a new application of the doctrine of governmental
aid to business. In the spring of 1860, the Republican House of Representatives passed the
Morrill tariff bill, consideration of which was postponed by the Democratic Senate. But it
served its purpose: it was a Republican manifesto. The Republicans felt that this bill, together
with their party platform, gave the necessary guarantee to the Pennsylvania manufacturers,
and they therefore entered the campaign confident they would carry Pennsylvania nor was their
confidence misplaced.

The campaign was characterized by three things: by an ominous quiet coupled with great intensity
of feeling; by the organization of huge party societies in military form--"Wide-awakes" for
Lincoln, numbering 400,000, and "Minute Men" for Breckenridge, with a membership chiefly Southern;
and by the perfect frankness, in all parts of the South, of threats of secession in case the
Republicans won.

In none of the States which eventually seceded were any votes cast for Lincoln, with the exception
of a small number in Virginia. In almost all the other Southern States and in the slave-holding
border States, all the other candidates made respectable showings. In Virginia, Tennessee,
and Kentucky, Bell led. But everywhere else in the other slave-holding States Breckinridge
led, excepting in Missouri where Douglas won by a few hundred. Every free State except New
Jersey went for Lincoln. And yet he did not have a majority of the popular vote, which stood:
Lincoln, 1,866,459; Douglas, 1,376,957; Breckinridge, 849,781; Bell, 588,879*. The majority
against Lincoln was nearly a million. The distribution of the votes was such that Lincoln had
in the Electoral College, 180 electors; Breckinridge, 72; Bell, 39; Douglas, 12. In neither
House of Congress did the Republicans have a majority.

     *The figures of the popular vote are variously given by
     different compilers.  These are taken from Stanwood, "A
     History of the Presidency".

CHAPTER V. SECESSION

In tracing American history from 1854 to 1860 we cannot fail to observe that it reduces itself
chiefly to a problem in that science which politicians understand so well--applied psychology.
Definite types of men moulded by the conditions of those days are the determining factors--not
the slavery question in itself; not, primarily, economic forces; not a theory of government,
nor a clash of theories; not any one thing; but the fluid, changeful forces of human nature,
battling with circumstances and expressing themselves in the fashion of men's minds. To say
this is to acknowledge the fatefulness of sheer feeling. Davis described the situation exactly
when he said, in 1860, "A sectional hostility has been substituted for a general fraternity."
To his own question, "Where is the remedy?" he gave the answer, "In the hearts of the people."
There, after all, is the conclusion of the whole matter. The strife between North and South
had ceased to be a thing of the head; it had become a thing of the heart. Granted the emotions
of 1860, the way in which our country staggered into war has all the terrible fascination of
a tragedy on the theme of fate.

That a secession movement would begin somewhere in the South before the end of 1860 was a foregone
conclusion. South Carolina was the logical place, and in South Carolina the inevitable occurred.
The presidential election was quickly followed by an election of delegates, on the 6th of December,
to consider in convention the relations of the State with the Union. The arguments before the
Convention were familiar and had been advocated since 1851. The leaders of the disunionists
were the same who had led the unsuccessful movement of ten years before. The central figure
was Rhett, who never for a moment had wavered. Consumed his life long by the one idea of the
independence of South Carolina, that stern enthusiast pressed on to a triumphant conclusion.
The powers which had defeated him in 1851 were now either silent or converted, so that there
was practically no opposition. In a burst of passionate zeal the independence of South Carolina
was proclaimed on December 20, 1860, by an ordinance of secession.

Simultaneously, by one of those dramatic coincidences which make history stranger than fiction,
Lincoln took a step which supplemented this action and established its tragic significance.
What that step was will appear in a moment.

Even before the secession began, various types of men in politics had begun to do each after
his kind. Those whom destiny drove first into a corner were the lovers of political evasion.
The issue was forced upon them by the instantaneous demand of the people of South Carolina
for possession of forts in Charleston Harbor which were controlled by the Federal Government.
Anticipating such a demand, Major Robert Anderson, the commandant at Charleston, had written
to Buchanan on the 23d of November that "Fort Sumter and Castle Pinckney must be garrisoned
immediately, if the Government determines to keep command of this harbor."

In the mind of every American of the party of political evasion, there now began a sad, internal
conflict. Every one of them had to choose among three courses: to shut his eyes and to continue
to wail that the function of government is to do nothing; to make an end of political evasion
and to come out frankly in approval of the Southern position; or to break with his own record,
to emerge from his evasions on the opposite side, and to confess himself first and before all
a supporter of the Union. One or another of these three courses, sooner or later, every man
of the President's following chose. We shall see presently the relative strength of the three
groups into which that following broke and what strange courses sometimes tragic, sometimes
comic--two of the three pursued. For the moment our concern is how the division manifested
itself among the heads of the party at Washington.

The President took the first of the three courses. He held it with the nervous clutch of a
weak nature until overmastered by two grim men who gradually hypnotized his will. The turning-point
for Buchanan, and the last poor crisis in his inglorious career, came on Sunday, December 30th.
Before that day arrived, his vacillation had moved his friends to pity and his enemies to scorn.
One of his best friends wrote privately, "The President is pale with fear"; and the hostile
point of view found expression in such comments as this, "Buchanan, it is said, divides his
time between praying and crying. Such a perfect imbecile never held office before."

With the question what to do about the forts hanging over his bewildered soul, Buchanan sent
a message to Congress on December 4, 1860, in which he sought to defend the traditional evasive
policy of his party. He denied the constitutional right of secession, but he was also denied
his own right to oppose such a course.

This message of Buchanan's hastened the inevitable separation of the Democratic party into
its elements. The ablest Southern member of the Cabinet, Cobb, resigned. He was too strong
an intellect to continue the policy of "nothing doing" now that the crisis had come. He was
too devoted a Southerner to come out of political evasion except on one side. On the day Cobb
resigned the South Carolina Representatives called on Buchanan and asked him not to make any
change in the disposition of troops at Charleston, and particularly not to strengthen Sumter,
a fortress on an island in the midst of the harbor, without at least giving notice to the state
authorities. What was said in this interview was not put in writing but was remembered afterward
in different ways with unfortunate consequences.

Every action of Buchanan in this fateful month continued the disintegration of his following.
Just as Cobb had to choose between his reasonings as a Democratic party man and his feelings
as a Southerner, so the aged Cass, his Secretary of State, and an old personal friend, now
felt constrained to choose between his Democratic reasoning and his Northern sympathies, and
resigned from the Cabinet on the 11th of December. Buchanan then turned instinctively to the
strongest natures that remained among his close associates. It is a compliment to the innate
force of Jeremiah S. Black, the Attorney-General, that Buchanan advanced him to the post of
Secretary of State and allowed him to name as his successor in the Attorney-Generalship Edwin
M. Stanton. Both were tried Democrats of the old style, "let-'em-alone" sort; and both had
supported the President in his Kansas policy. But each, like every other member of his party,
was being forced by circumstances to make his choice among the three inevitable courses, and
each chose the Northern side. At once the question of the moment was whether the new Secretary
of State and his powerful henchmen would hypnotize the President.

For a couple of weeks the issue hung in the balance. Then there appeared at Washington commissioners
from South Carolina "empowered to treat...for the delivery of forts...and other real estate"
held by the Federal Government within their State. On the day following their arrival, Buchanan
was informed by telegraph that Anderson had dismantled Fort Moultrie on the north side of the
harbor, had spiked its guns, and had removed its garrison to the island fortress, Sumter, which
was supposed to be far more defensible. At Charleston his action was interpreted as preparation
for war; and all South Carolinians saw in it a violation of a pledge which they believed the
President had given their congressmen, three weeks previous, in that talk which had not been
written down. Greatly excited and fearful of designs against them, the South Carolina commissioners
held two conferences with the President on the 27th and 28th of December. They believed that
he had broken his word, and they told him so. Deeply agitated and refusing to admit that he
had committed himself at the earlier conference, he said that Anderson had acted on his own
responsibility, but he refused to order him back to the now ruined Fort Moultrie. One remark
which he let fall has been remembered as evidence of his querulous state of mind: "You are
pressing me too importunately" exclaimed the unhappy President; "you don't give me time to
consider; you don't give me time to say my prayers; I always say my prayers when required to
act upon any great state affair." One remembers Hampden "seeking the Lord" about ship money,
and one realizes that the same act may have a vastly different significance in different temperaments.

Buchanan, however, was virtually ready to give way to the demand of the commissioners. He drew
up a paper to that effect and showed it to the Cabinet. Then the turning-point came. In a painful
interview, Black, long one of his most trusted friends, told him of his intention to resign,
and that Stanton would go with him and probably also the Postmaster-General, Holt. The idea
of losing the support of these strong personalities terrified Buchanan, who immediately fell
into a panic. Handing Black the paper he had drawn up, Buchanan begged him to retain office
and to alter the paper as he saw fit. To this Black agreed. The demand for the surrender of
the forts was refused; Anderson was not ordered back to Moultrie; and for the brief remainder
of Buchanan's administration Black acted as prime minister.

A very powerful section of the Northern democracy, well typified by their leaders at Washington,
had thus emerged from political evasion on the Northern side. These men, known afterwards as
War Democrats, combined with the Republicans to form the composite Union party which supported
Lincoln. It is significant that Stanton eventually reappeared in the Cabinet as Lincoln's Secretary
of War, and that along with him appeared another War Democrat, Gideon Welles, Lincoln's Secretary
of the Navy. With them, at last, Douglas, the greatest of all the old Democrats of the North,
took his position. What became of the other factions of the old Democratic party remains to
be told.

While Buchanan, early in the month, was weeping over the pitilessness of fate, more practical
Northerners were grappling with the question of what was to be done about the situation. In
their thoughts they anticipated a later statesman and realized that they were confronted by
a condition and not by a theory. Secession was at last a reality. Which course should they take?

What strikes us most forcibly, as we look back upon that day, is the widespread desire for
peace. The abolitionists form a conspicuous example. Their watchword was "Let the erring sisters
go in peace." Wendell Phillips, their most gifted orator, a master of spoken style at once
simple and melodious, declaimed splendidly against war. Garrison, in "The Liberator", followed
his example.

The Democrats naturally clung to their traditions, and, even when they went over, as Black
and Stanton did, to the Anti-Southern group, they still hoped that war would not be the result.
Equally earnest against war were most of the Republicans, though a few, to be sure, were ready
to swing the "Northern hammer." Summer prophesied that slavery would "go down in blood." But
the bulk of the Republicans were for a sectional compromise, and among them there was general
approbation of a scheme which contemplated reviving the line of the Missouri Compromise, and
thus frankly admitting the existence of two distinct sections, and guaranteeing to each the
security of its own institutions. The greatest Republican boss of that day, Thurlow Weed, came
out in defense of this plan.

No power was arrayed more zealously on the side of peace of any kind than the power of money.
It was estimated that two hundred millions of dollars were owed by Southerners to Northerners.
War, it was reasoned, would cause the cancellation of these obligations. To save their Southern
accounts, the moneyed interests of the North joined the extremists of Abolition in pleading
to let the erring sisters go in peace, if necessary, rather than provoke them to war and the
confiscation of debts. It was the dread of such an outcome--which finally happened and ruined
many Northern firms--that caused the stock-market in New York to go up and down with feverish
uncertainty. Banks suspended payment in Washington, Baltimore, and Philadelphia. The one important
and all-engrossing thing in the mind's eye of all the financial world at this moment was that
specter of unpaid Southern accounts.

At this juncture, Senator Crittenden of Kentucky submitted to the Senate a plan which has been
known ever since as the Crittenden Compromise. It was similar to Weed's plan, but it also provided
that the division of the country on the Missouri Compromise line should be established by a
constitutional amendment, which would thus forever solidify sectionalism. Those elements of
the population generally called the conservative and the responsible were delighted. Edward
Everett wrote to Crittenden, "I saw with great satisfaction your patriotic movement, and I
wish from the bottom of my heart it might succeed"; and August Belmont in a letter to Crittenden
spoke for the moneyed interest: "I have yet to meet the first Union-loving man, in or out of
politics, who does not approve your compromise proposition...."

The Senate submitted the Compromise to a Committee of Thirteen. In this committee the Southern
leaders, Toombs and Davis, were both willing to accept the Compromise, if a majority of the
Republican members would agree. Indeed, if the Republicans would agree to it, there seemed
no reason why a new understanding between the sections might not be reached, and no reason
why sectionalism, if accepted as the basis of the government, might not solve the immediate
problem and thus avert war.

In this crisis all eyes were turned to Seward, that conspicuous Republican who was generally
looked upon as the real head of his party. And Seward, at that very moment, was debating whether
to accept Lincoln's offer of the Secretaryship of State, for he considered it vital to have
an understanding with Lincoln on the subject of the Compromise. He talked the matter over with
Weed, and they decided that Weed should go to Springfield and come to terms with Lincoln. It
was the interview between Weed and Lincoln held, it seems, on the very day on which the Ordinance
of Secession was adopted--which gave to that day its double significance.

Lincoln refused point-blank to accept the compromise and he put his refusal in writing. The
historic meaning of his refusal, and the significance of his determination not to solve the
problem of the hour by accepting a dual system of government based on frankly sectional assumptions,
were probably, in a measure, lost on both Weed and Seward. They had, however, no misunderstanding
of its practical effect. This crude Western lawyer had certain ideas from which he would not
budge, and the party would have to go along with him. Weed and Seward therefore promptly fell
into line, and Seward accepted the Secretaryship and came out in opposition to the Compromise.
Other Republicans with whom Lincoln had communicated by letter made known his views, and Greeley
announced them in The Tribune. The outcome was the solid alignment of all the Republicans in
Congress against the Compromise. As a result, this last attempt to reunite the sections came
to nothing.

Not more than once or twice, if ever, in American history, has there been such an anxious New
Year's Day as that which ushered in 1861. A few days before, a Republican Congressman had written
to one of his constituents: "The heavens are indeed black and an awful storm is gathering...I
see no way that either North or South can escape its fury." Events were indeed moving fast
toward disaster. The garrison at Sumter was in need of supplies, and in the first week of the
new year Buchanan attempted to relieve its wants. But a merchant vessel, the Star of the West,
by which supplies were sent, was fired upon by the South Carolina authorities as it approached
the harbor and was compelled to turn back. This incident caused the withdrawal from the Cabinet
of the last opposition members--Thompson, of Mississippi, the Secretary of the Interior, and
Thomas, of Maryland, the Secretary of the Treasury. In the course of the month five Southern
States followed South Carolina out of the Union, and their Senators and Representatives resigned
from the Congress of the United States.

The resignation of Jefferson Davis was communicated to the Senate in a speech of farewell which
even now holds the imagination of the student, and which to the men of that day, with the Union
crumbling around them, seemed one of the most mournful and dramatic of orations. Davis possessed
a beautiful, melodious voice; he had a noble presence, tall, erect, spare, even ascetic, with
a flashing blue eye. He was deeply moved by the occasion; his address was a requiem. That he
withdrew in sorrow but with fixed determination, no one who listened to him could doubt. Early
in February, the Southern Confederacy was formed with Davis as its provisional President. With
the prophetic vision of a logical mind, he saw that war was inevitable, and he boldly proclaimed
his vision. In various speeches on his way South, he had assured the Southern people that war
was coming, and that it would be long and bloody.

The withdrawal of these Southern members threw the control of the House into the hands of the
Republicans. Their realization of their power was expressed in two measures which also passed
the Senate; Kansas was admitted--as a State with an anti-slavery constitution; and the Morrill
tariff, which they had failed to pass the previous spring, now became law. Thus the Republicans
began redeeming their pledges to the anti-slavery men on the one hand and to the commercial
interest on the other. The time had now arrived for the Republican nominee to proceed from
Springfield to Washington. The journey was circuitous in order to enable Lincoln to speak at
a number of places. Never before, probably, had the Northern people felt such tense strain
as at that moment; never had they looked to an incoming President with such anxious doubt.
Would he prevent war? Or, if he could not do that, would he be able to extricate the country--Heaven
alone knew how!--without a terrible ordeal? Since his election, Lincoln had remained quietly
at Springfield. Though he had influenced events through letters to Congressmen, his one conspicuous
action during that winter was the defeat of the Crittenden Compromise. The Southern President
had called upon his people to put their house in order as preparation for war. What, now, had
Lincoln to say to the people of the North?

The biographers of Lincoln have not satisfactorily revealed the state of his mind between election
and inauguration. We may safely guess that his silence covered a great internal struggle. Except
for his one action in defeating the Compromise, he had allowed events to drift; but by that
one action he had taken upon himself the responsibility for the drift. Though the country at
that time did not fully appreciate this aspect of the situation, who now can doubt that Lincoln
did? His mind was always a lonely one. His very humor has in it, so often, the note of solitude,
of one who is laughing to make the best of things, of one who is spiritually alone. During
those months when the country drifted from its moorings, and when war was becoming steadily
more probable, Lincoln, after the manner of the prophets, wrestled alone with the problems
which he saw before him. From the little we know of his inward state, it is hard for us to
conclude that he was happy. A story which is told by his former partner, Mr. Herndon, seems
significant. As Lincoln was leaving his unpretentious law-office for the last time, he turned
to Mr. Herndon and asked him not to take down their old sign. "Let it hang there undisturbed,"
said he.

How far removed from self-sufficiency was the man whose thoughts, on the eve of his elevation
to the Presidency, lingered in a provincial law office, fondly insistent that only death should
prevent his returning some time and resuming in those homely surroundings the life he had led
previous to his greatness. In a mood of wistfulness and of intense preoccupation, he began
his journey to Washington. It was not the mood from which to strike fire and kindle hope. To
the anxious, listening country his speeches on the journey to Washington were disappointing.
Perhaps his strangely sensitive mind felt too powerfully the fatefulness of the moment and
reacted with a sort of lightness that did not really represent the real man. Be that as it
may, he was never less convincing than at that time. Nor were people impressed by his bearing.
Often he appeared awkward, too much in appearance the country lawyer. He acted as a man who
was ill at ease and he spoke as a man who had nothing to say. Gloom darkened the North as a
consequence of these unfortunate speeches, for they expressed an optimism which we cannot believe
he really felt, and which hurt him in the estimation of the country. "There is no crisis but
an artificial one," was one of his ill-timed assurances, and another, "There is nothing going
wrong.... There is nothing that really hurts any one." Of his supporters some were discouraged;
others were exasperated; and an able but angry partisan even went so far as to write in a private
letter, "Lincoln is a Simple Susan."

The fourth of March arrived, and with it the end of Lincoln's blundering. One good omen for
the success of the new Administration was the presence of Douglas on the inaugural platform.
He had accepted fate, deeply as it wounded him, and had come out of the shattered party of
evasion on the side of his section. For the purpose of showing his support of the administration
at this critical time, he had taken a place on the stand where Lincoln was to speak. By one
of those curious little dramatic touches with which chance loves to embroider history, the
presence of Douglas became a gracious detail in the memory of the day. Lincoln, worn and awkward,
continued to hold his hat in his hand. Douglas, with the tact born of social experience, stepped
forward and took it from him without--exposing Lincoln's embarrassment.

The inaugural address which Lincoln now pronounced had little similarity to those unfortunate
utterances which he had made on the journey to Washington. The cloud that had been over him,
whatever it was, had lifted. Lincoln was ready for his great labor. The inaugural contained
three main propositions. Lincoln pledged himself not to interfere directly or indirectly with
slavery in the States where it then existed; he promised to support the enforcement of the
fugitive slave law; and he declared he would maintain the Union.

Gentle, as was the phrasing of the inaugural, it was perfectly firm, and it outlined a policy
which the South would not accept, and which, in the opinion of the Southern leaders, brought
them a step nearer war. Wall Street held the same belief, and as a consequence the price of
stocks fell.

CHAPTER VI. WAR

On the day following the inauguration, commissioners of the newly formed Confederacy appeared
at Washington and applied to the Secretary of State for recognition as envoys of a foreign
power. Seward refused them such recognition. But he entered into a private negotiation with
them which is nearly, if not quite, the strangest thing in our history. Virtually, Seward intrigued
against Lincoln for control of the Administration. The events of the next five weeks have an
importance out of all proportion to the brevity of the time. This was Lincoln's period of final
probation. The psychological intensity of this episode grew from the consciousness in every
mind that now, irretrievably, destiny was to be determined. War or peace, happiness or adversity,
one nation or two--all these were in the balance. Lincoln entered the episode a doubtful quantity,
not with certainty the master even in his own Cabinet. He emerged dominating the situation,
but committed to the terrible course of war.

One cannot enter upon this great episode, truly the turning point in American history, without
pausing for a glance at the character of Seward. The subject is elusive. His ablest biographer*
plainly is so constantly on guard not to appear an apologist that he ends by reducing his portrait
to a mere outline, wavering across a background of political details. The most recent study
of Seward** surely reveals between the lines the doubtfulness of the author about pushing his
points home. The different sides of the man are hard to reconcile. Now he seemed frank and
honest; again subtle and insincere. As an active politician in the narrow sense, he should
have been sagacious and astute, yet he displayed at the crisis of his life the most absolute
fatuity. At times he had a buoyant and puerile way of disregarding fact and enveloping himself
in a world of his own imagining. He could bluster, when he wished, like any demagogue; and
yet he could be persuasive, agreeable, and even personally charming.

     *Frederic Bancroft, "Life of William H. Seward".

     ** Gamaliel Bradford, "Union Portraits".

But of one thing with regard to Seward, in the first week of March, 1861, there can be no doubt:
he thought himself a great statesman--and he thought Lincoln "a Simple Susan." He conceived
his role in the new administration to involve a subtle and patient manipulation of his childlike
superior. That Lincoln would gradually yield to his spell and insensibly become his figurehead;
that he, Seward, could save the country and would go down to history a statesman above compare,
he took for granted. Nor can he fairly be called conceited, either; that is part of his singularity.

Lincoln's Cabinet was, as Seward said, a compound body. With a view to strengthening his position,
Lincoln had appointed to cabinet positions all his former rivals for the Republican nomination.
The appointment of Montgomery Blair of Maryland as Postmaster-General was intended to placate
the border Slave States. The same motive dictated the later inclusion of James Speed of Kentucky
in the Cabinet. The Black-Stanton wing of the Democrats was represented in the Navy Department
by Gideon Welles, and in course of time in the War Department also, when Cameron resigned and
Stanton succeeded him. The West of that day was represented by Caleb B. Smith of Indiana.

Seward disapproved of the composition of the Cabinet so much that, almost at the last moment,
he withdrew his acceptance of the State Department. It was Lincoln's gentleness of argument
which overcame his reluctance to serve. We may be sure, however, that Seward failed to observe
that Lincoln's tactlessness in social matters did not extend to his management of men in politics;
we may feel sure that what remained in his mind was Lincoln's unwillingness to enter office
without William Henry Seward as Secretary of State.

The promptness with which Seward assumed the role of prime minister bears out this inference.
The same fact also reveals a puzzling detail of Seward's character which amounted to obtuseness--his
forgetfulness that appointment to cabinet offices had not transformed his old political rivals
Chase and Cameron, nor softened the feelings of an inveterate political enemy, Welles, the
Secretary of the Navy. The impression which Seward made on his colleagues in the first days
of the new Government has been thus sharply recorded by Welles: "The Secretary of State was,
of course, apprised of every meeting [of ministers] and never failed in his attendance, whatever
was the subject-matter, and though entirely out of his official province. He was vigilantly
attentive to every measure and movement in other Departments, however trivial--as much so as
to his own--watched and scrutinized every appointment that was made, or proposed to be made,
but was not communicative in regard to the transaction of the State Department." So eager was
Seward to keep all the threads of affairs in his own hands that he tried to persuade Lincoln
not to hold cabinet meetings but merely to consult with particular ministers, and with the
Secretary of State, as occasion might demand. A combined protest from the other Secretaries,
however, caused the regular holding of Cabinet meetings.

With regard to the Confederacy, Seward's policy was one of non-resistance. For this he had
two reasons. The first of these was his rooted delusion that the bulk of the Southerners were
opposed to secession and, if let alone, would force their leaders to reconsider their action.
He might have quoted the nursery rhyme, "Let them alone and they'll come home"; it would have
been like him and in tune with a frivolous side of his nature. He was quite as irresponsible
when he complacently assured the North that the trouble would all blow over within ninety days.
He also believed that any display of force would convert these hypothetical Unionists of the
South from friends to enemies and would consolidate opinion in the Confederacy to produce war.
In justice to Seward it must be remembered that on this point time justified his fears.

His dealings with the Confederate commissioners show that he was playing to gain time, not
with intent to deceive the Southerners but to acquire that domination over Lincoln which he
felt was his by natural right. Intending to institute a peace policy the moment he gained this
ascendency, he felt perfectly safe in making promises to the commissioners through mutual friends.
He virtually told them that Sumter would eventually be given up and that all they need do was
to wait.

Seward brought to bear upon the President the opinions of various military men who thought
the time had passed when any expedition for the relief of Sumter could succeed. For some time
Lincoln seemed about to consent, though reluctantly, to Seward's lead in the matter of the
forts. He was pulled up standing, however, by the threatened resignation of the Postmaster-General,
Blair. After a conference with leading Republican politicians the President announced to his
Cabinet that his policy would include the relief of Sumter. "Seward," says Welles, "...was
evidently displeased."

Seward now took a new tack. Fort Pickens, at Pensacola, was a problem similar to that of Sumter
at Charleston. Both were demanded by the Confederates, and both were in need of supplies. But
Fort Pickens lay to one side, so to speak, of the public mind, and there was not conspicuously
in the world's eye the square issue over it that there was over Sumter. Seward conceived the
idea that, if the President's attention were diverted from Sumter to Pickens and a relief expedition
were sent to the latter but none to the former, his private negotiations with the Confederates
might still be kept going; Lincoln might yet be hypnotized; and at last all would be well.

On All-Fools' Day, 1861, in the midst of a press of business, he obtained Lincoln's signature
to some dispatches, which Lincoln, it seems, discussed with him hurriedly and without detailed
consideration. There were now in preparation two relief expeditions, one to carry supplies
to Pensacola, the other to Charleston. Neither was to fight if it was not molested. Both were
to be strong enough to fight if their commanders deemed it necessary. As flagship of the Charleston
expedition, Welles had detailed the powerful warship Powhatan, which was rapidly being made
ready at the Brooklyn Navy Yard. Such was the situation as Welles understood it when he was
thinking of bed late on the night of the 6th of April. Until then he had not suspected that
there was doubt and bewilderment about the Powhatan at Brooklyn. One of those dispatches which
Lincoln had so hastily signed provided for detaching the Powhatan from the Charleston expedition
and sending it safe out of harm's way to Pensacola. The commander of the ship had before him
the conflicting orders, one from the President, one from the Secretary of the Navy. He was
about to sail under the President's orders for Pensacola; but wishing to make sure of his authority,
he had telegraphed to Washington. Gideon Welles was a pugnacious man. His dislike for Seward
was deepseated. Imagine his state of mind when it was accidently revealed to him that Seward
had gone behind his back and had issued to naval officers orders which were contradictory to
his own! The immediate result was an interview that same night between Seward and Welles in
which, as Welles coldly admitted in after days, the Secretary of the Navy showed "some excitement."
Together they went, about midnight, to the White House. Lincoln had some difficulty recalling
the incident of the dispatch on the 1st of April; but when he did remember, he took the responsibility
entirely upon himself, saying he had had no purpose but to strengthen the Pickens expedition,
and no thought of weakening the expedition to Charleston. He directed Seward to telegraph immediately
cancelling the order detaching the Powhatan. Seward made a desperate attempt to put him off,
protesting, it was too late to send a telegram that night. "But the President was imperative,"
writes Secretary Welles, in describing the incident, and a dispatch was sent.

Seward then, doubtless in his agitation, did a strange thing. Instead of telegraphing in the
President's name, the dispatch which he sent read merely, "Give up the Powhatan...Seward."
When this dispatch was received at Brooklyn, the Powhatan was already under way and had to
be overtaken by a fast tug. In the eyes of her commander, however, a personal telegram from
the Secretary of State appeared as of no weight against the official orders of the President,
and he continued his voyage to Pensacola.

The mercurial temper of Seward comes out even in the caustic narrative written afterwards by
Welles. Evidently Seward was deeply mortified and depressed by the incident. He remarked, says
Welles, that old as he was he had learned a lesson, and that was that he had better attend
to his own business. "To this," commented his enemy, "I cordially assented."

Nevertheless Seward's loss of faith in himself was only momentary. A night's sleep was sufficient
to restore it. His next communication to the commissioners shows that he was himself again,
sure that destiny owed him the control of the situation. On the following day the commissioners
had got wind of the relief expedition and pressed him for information, recalling his assurance
that nothing would be done to their disadvantage. In reply, still through a third person, Seward
sent them the famous message, over the precise meaning of which great debate has raged: "Faith
as to Sumter fully kept; wait and see." If this infatuated dreamer still believed he could
dominate Lincoln, still hoped at the last moment to arrest the expedition to Charleston, he
was doomed to bitterest disappointment.

On the 9th of April, the expedition to Fort Sumter sailed, but without, as we have seen, the
assistance of the much needed warship, the Powhatan. As all the world knows, the expedition
had been too long delayed and it accomplished nothing. Before it arrived, the surrender of
Sumter had been demanded and refused--and war had begun. During the bombardment of Sumter,
the relief expedition appeared beyond the bar, but its commander had no vessels of such a character
as to enable him to carry aid to the fortress. Furthermore, he had not been informed that the
Powhatan had been detached from his squadron, and he expected to meet her at the mouth of the
harbor. There his ships lay idle until the fort was surrendered, waiting for the Powhatan--for
whose detachment from the squadron Seward was responsible.

To return to the world of intrigue at Washington, however, it must not be supposed, as is so
often done, that Fort Sumter was the one concern of the new government during its first six
weeks. In fact, the subject occupied but a fraction of Lincoln's time. Scarcely second in importance
was that matter so curiously bound up with the relief of the forts--the getting in hand of
the strangely vain glorious Secretary of State. Mention has already been made of All-Fools'
Day, 1861. Several marvelous things took place on that day. Strangest of all was the presentation
of a paper by the Secretary of State to his chief, entitled "Thoughts for the President's Consideration".
Whether it be regarded as a state paper or as a biographical detail in the career of Seward,
it proves to be quite the most astounding thing in the whole episode. The "Thoughts" outlined
a course of policy by which the buoyant Secretary intended to make good his prophecy of domestic
peace within ninety days. Besides calmly patronizing Lincoln, assuring him that his lack of
"a policy either domestic or foreign" was "not culpable and... even unavoidable," the paper
warned him that "policies...both domestic and foreign" must immediately be adopted, and it
proceeded to point out what they ought to be. Briefly stated, the one true policy which he
advocated at home was to evacuate Sumter (though Pickens for some unexplained reason might
be safely retained) and then, in order to bring the Southerners back into the Union, to pick
quarrels with both Spain and France; to proceed as quickly as possible to war with both powers;
and to have the ultimate satisfaction of beholding the reunion of the country through the general
enthusiasm that was bound to come. Finally, the paper intimated that the Secretary of State
was the man to carry this project through to success.

All this is not opera bouffe, but serious history. It must have taxed Lincoln's sense of humor
and strained his sense of the fitness of things to treat such nonsense with the tactful forbearance
which he showed and to relegate it to the pigeonhole without making Seward angry. Yet this
he contrived to do; and he also managed, gently but firmly, to make it plain that the President
intended to exercise his authority as the chief magistrate of the nation. His forbearance was
further shown in passing over without rebuke Seward's part in the affair of Sumter, which might
so easily have been made to appear treacherous, and in shouldering himself with all responsibility
for the failure of the Charleston expedition. In the wave of excitement following the surrender,
even so debonair a minister as Seward must have realized how fortunate it was for him that
his chief did not tell all he knew. About this time Seward began to perceive that Lincoln had
a will of his own, and that it was not safe to trifle further with the President. Seward thereupon
ceased his interference.

It was in the dark days preceding the fall of Sumter that a crowd of office-seekers gathered
at Washington, most of them men who had little interest in anything but the spoils. It is a
distressing commentary on the American party system that, during the most critical month of
the most critical period of American history, much of the President's time was consumed by
these political vampires who would not be put off, even though a revolution was in progress
and nations, perhaps, were dying and being born. "The scramble for office," wrote Stanton,
"is terrible." The Republicans on the other hand, were scarcely less partisan and unreasonable.
Patriotism was with them no test, no shield from party malevolence. They demanded the proscription
and exclusion of such Democrats as opposed the Rebel movement and clung to the Union, with
the same vehemence that they demanded the removal of the worst Rebels who advocated a dissolution
of the Union. Neither party appeared to be apprehensive of, or to realize the gathering storm."

Seen against such a background, the political and diplomatic frivolity of the Secretary of
State is not so inexplicable as it would otherwise be. This background, as well as the intrigue
of the Secretary, helps us to understand Lincoln's great task inside his Cabinet. At first
the Cabinet was a group of jealous politicians new to this sort of office, drawn from different
parties, and totally lacking in a cordial sense of previous action together. None of them,
probably, when they first assembled had any high opinion of their titular head. He was looked
upon as a political makeshift. The best of them had to learn to appreciate the fact that this
strange, ungainly man, sprung from plainest origin, without formal education, was a great genius.
By degrees, however, the large minds in the Cabinet became his cordial admirers. While Lincoln
was quietly, gradually exercising his strong will upon Seward, he was doing the same with the
other members of his council. Presently they awoke--the majority of them at least--to the truth
that he, for all his odd ways, was their master.

Meanwhile the gradual readjustment of all factions in the North was steadily going forward.
The Republicans were falling into line behind the Government; and by degrees the distinction
between Seward and Lincoln, in the popular mind, faded into a sort of composite picture called
"the Administration." Lincoln had the reward of his long forbearance with his Secretary. For
Seward it must be said that, however he had intrigued against his chief at Washington, he did
not intrigue with the country. Admitting as he had, too, that he had met his master, he took
the defeat as a good sportsman and threw all his vast party influence into the scale for Lincoln's
fortunes. Thus, as April wore on, the Republican party settled down to the idea that it was
to follow the Government at Washington upon any course that might develop.

The Democrats in the North were anti-Southern in larger proportion, probably, than at any other
time during the struggle of the sections. We have seen that numbers of them had frankly declared
for the Union. Politics had proved weaker than propinquity. There was a moment when it seemed--delusively,
as events proved--that the North was united as one man to oppose the South.

There is surely not another day in our history that has witnessed so much nervous tension as
Saturday, April 13, 1861, for on that morning the newspapers electrified the North with the
news that Sumter had been fired on from Confederate batteries on the shore of Charleston Harbor.
In the South the issue was awaited confidently, but many minds at least were in that state
of awed suspense natural to a moment which the thoughtful see is the stroke of fate. In the
North, the day passed for the most part in a quiet so breathless that even the most careless
could have foretold the storm which broke on the following day. The account of this crisis
which has been given by Lincoln's private secretary is interesting:

"That day there was little change in the business routine of the Executive office. Mr. Lincoln
was never liable to sudden excitement or sudden activity.... So while the Sumter telegrams
were on every tongue...leading men and officials called to learn or impart the news. The Cabinet,
as by common impulse, came together and deliberated. All talk, however, was brief, sententious,
formal. Lincoln said but little beyond making inquiries about the current reports and criticizing
the probability or accuracy of their details, and went on as usual receiving visitors, listening
to suggestions, and signing routine papers throughout the day." Meanwhile the cannon were booming
at Charleston. The people came out on the sea-front of the lovely old city and watched the
duel of the cannon far down the harbor, and spoke joyously of the great event. They saw the
shells of the shore batteries ignite portions of the fortress on the island. They watched the
fire of the defenders--driven by the flames into a restricted area--slacken and cease. At last
the flag of the Union fluttered down from above Fort Sumter.

When the news flashed over the North, early Sunday morning, April 14th, the tension broke.
For many observers then and afterward, the only North discernible that fateful Sabbath was
an enraged, defiant, impulsive nation, forgetful for the moment of all its differences, and
uniting all its voices in one hoarse cry for vengeance. There seemed to be no other thought.
Lincoln gave it formal utterance, that same day, by assembling his Cabinet and drawing up a
proclamation which called for 75,000 volunteer troops.

An incident of this day which is as significant historically as any other was on the surface
no more than a friendly talk between two men. Douglas called at the White House. For nearly
two hours he and Lincoln conferred in private. Hitherto it had been a little uncertain what
course Douglas was going to take. In the Senate, though condemning disunion, he had opposed
war. Few matters can have troubled Lincoln more deeply than the question which way Douglas's
immense influence would be thrown. The question was answered publicly in the newspapers of
Monday, April 15th.

There remained of Douglas's life but a few months. The time was filled with earnest speechmaking
in support of the Government. He had started West directly following his conference with Lincoln.
His speeches in Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, were perhaps the greatest single force in breaking
up his own following, putting an end to the principle of doing nothing, and forcing every Democrat
to come out and show his colors. In Shakespeare's phrase, it was--"Under which king, Bezonian?
speak or die!" In Douglas's own phrase: "There can be no neutrals in this war; ONLY PATRIOTS--OR
TRAITORS."

Side by side with Douglas's manifesto to the Democrats there appeared in the Monday papers
Lincoln's call for volunteers. The militia of several Northern States at once responded.

On Wednesday, the 17th of April, the Sixth Massachusetts Regiment entrained for Washington.
Two days later it was in Baltimore. There it was attacked by a mob; the soldiers fired; and
a number of civilians were killed as well as several soldiers.

These shots at Baltimore aroused the Southern party in Maryland. Led by the Mayor of the city,
they resolved to prevent the passage of other troops across their State to Washington. Railway
tracks were torn up by order of the municipal authorities, and bridges were burnt. The telegraph
was cut. As in a flash, after issuing his proclamation, Lincoln found himself isolated at Washington
with no force but a handful of troops and the government clerks. And while Maryland rose against
him on one side, Virginia joined his enemies on the other. The day the Sixth Massachusetts
left Boston, Virginia seceded. The Virginia militia were called to their colors. Preparations
were at once set on foot for the seizure of the great federal arsenal at Harper's Ferry and
the Navy Yard at Norfolk. The next day a handful of federal troops, fearful of being overpowered
at Harper's Ferry, burned the arsenal and withdrew to Washington. For the same reason the buildings
of the great Navy Yard were blown up or set on fire, and the ships at anchor were sunk. So
desperate and unprepared were the Washington authorities that they took these extreme measures
to keep arms and ammunition out of the hands of the Virginians. So hastily was the destruction
carried out, that it was only partially successful and at both places large stores of ammunition
were seized by the Virginia troops. While Washington was isolated, and Lincoln did not know
what response the North had made to his proclamation, Robert E. Lee, having resigned his commission
in the federal army, was placed in command of the Virginia troops.

The secretaries of Lincoln have preserved a picture of his desperate anxiety, waiting, day
after day, for relief from the North which he hoped would speedily come by sea. Outwardly he
maintained his self-control.

During these days of isolation, when Washington, with the telegraph inoperative, was kept in
an appalling uncertainty, the North rose. There was literally a rush to volunteer. "The heather
is on fire," wrote George Ticknor, "I never before knew what a popular excitement can be."
As fast as possible militia were hurried South. The crack New York regiment, the famous, dandified
Seventh, started for the front amid probably the most tempestuous ovation which until that
time was ever given to a military organization in America. Of the march of the regiment down
Broadway, one of its members wrote, "Only one who passed as we did, through the tempest of
cheers two miles long, can know the terrible enthusiasm of the occasion."

To reach Washington by rail was impossible. The Seventh went by boat to Annapolis. The same
course was taken by a regiment of Massachusetts mechanics, the Eighth. Landing at Annapolis,
the two regiments, dandies and laborers, fraternized at once in the common bond of loyalty
to the Union. A branch railway led from Annapolis to the main line between Washington and Baltimore.
The rails had been torn up. The Massachusetts mechanics set to work to relay them. The Governor
of Maryland protested. He was disregarded. The two regiments toiled together a long day and
through the night following, between Annapolis and the Washington junction, bringing on their
baggage and cannon over relaid tracks. There, a train was found which the Seventh appropriated.
At noon, on the 25th of April, that advance guard of the Northern hosts entered Washington,
and Lincoln knew that he had armies behind him.

CHAPTER VII. LINCOLN

The history of the North had virtually become, by April, 1861, the history of Lincoln himself,
and during the remaining four years of the President's life it is difficult to separate his
personality from the trend of national history. Any attempt to understand the achievements
and the omissions of the Northern people without undertaking an intelligent estimate of their
leader would be only to duplicate the story of "Hamlet" with Hamlet left out.

     * Wood and Edmonds. "The Civil War in the United States."

Lincoln has been ranked with Socrates; but he has also been compared with Rabelais. He has
been the target of abuse that knew no mercy; but he has been worshiped as a demigod. The ten
big volumes of his official biography are a sustained, intemperate eulogy in which the hero
does nothing that is not admirable; but as large a book could be built up out of contemporaneous
Northern writings that would paint a picture of unmitigated blackness--and the most eloquent
portions of it would be signed by Wendell Phillips.

The real Lincoln is, of course, neither the Lincoln of the official biography nor the Lincoln
of Wendell Phillips. He was neither a saint nor a villain. What he actually was is not, however,
so easily stated. Prodigious men are never easy to sum up; and Lincoln was a prodigious man.
The more one studies him, the more individual he appears to be. By degrees one comes to understand
how it was possible for contemporaries to hold contradictory views of him and for each to believe
frantically that his views were proved by facts. For anyone who thinks he can hit off in a
few neat generalities this complex, extraordinary personality, a single warning may suffice.
Walt Whitman, who was perhaps the most original thinker and the most acute observer who ever
saw Lincoln face to face has left us his impression; but he adds that there was something in
Lincoln's face which defied description and which no picture had caught. After Whitman's conclusion
that "One of the great portrait painters of two or three hundred years ago is needed," the
mere historian should proceed with caution.

There is historic significance in his very appearance. His huge, loose-knit figure, six feet
four inches high, lean, muscular, ungainly, the evidence of his great physical strength, was
a fit symbol of those hard workers, the children of the soil, from whom he sprang. His face
was rugged like his figure, the complexion swarthy, cheek bones high, and bushy black hair
crowning a great forehead beneath which the eyes were deep-set, gray, and dreaming. A sort
of shambling powerfulness formed the main suggestion of face and figure, softened strangely
by the mysterious expression of the eyes, and by the singular delicacy of the skin. The motions
of this awkward giant lacked grace; the top hat and black frock coat, sometimes rusty, which
had served him on the western circuit continued to serve him when he was virtually the dictator
of his country. It was in such dress that he visited the army, where he towered above his generals.

Even in a book of restricted scope, such as this, one must insist upon the distinction between
the private and public Lincoln, for there is as yet no accepted conception of him. What comes
nearest to an accepted conception is contained probably in the version of the late Charles
Francis Adams. He tells us how his father, the elder Charles Francis Adams, ambassador to London,
found Lincoln in 1861 an offensive personality, and he insists that Lincoln under strain passed
through a transformation which made the Lincoln of 1864 a different man from the Lincoln of
1861. Perhaps; but without being frivolous, one is tempted to quote certain old-fashioned American
papers that used to label their news items "important if true."

What then, was the public Lincoln? What explains his vast success? As a force in American history,
what does he count for? Perhaps the most significant detail in an answer to these questions
is the fact that he had never held conspicuous public office until at the age of fifty-two
he became President. Psychologically his place is in that small group of great geniuses whose
whole significant period lies in what we commonly think of as the decline of life. There are
several such in history: Rome had Caesar; America had both Lincoln and Lee. By contrasting
these instances with those of the other type, the egoistic geniuses such as Alexander or Napoleon,
we become aware of some dim but profound dividing line separating the two groups. The theory
that genius, at bottom, is pure energy seems to fit Napoleon; but does it fit these other minds
who appear to meet life with a certain indifference, with a carelessness of their own fate,
a willingness to leave much to chance? That irresistible passion for authority which Napoleon
had is lacking in these others. Their basal inspiration seems to resemble the impulse of the
artist to express, rather than the impulse of the man of action to possess. Had it not been
for secession, Lee would probably have ended his days as an exemplary superintendent of West
Point. And what of Lincoln? He dabbled in politics, early and without success; he left politics
for the law, and to the law he gave during many years his chief devotion. But the fortuitous
break-up of parties, with the revival of the slavery issue, touched some hidden spring; the
able provincial lawyer felt again the political impulse; he became a famous maker of political
phrases; and on this literary basis he became the leader of a party.

Too little attention has been paid to this progression of Lincoln through literature into politics.
The ease with which he drifted from one to the other is also still to be evaluated. Did it
show a certain slackness, a certain aimlessness, at the bottom of his nature? Had it, in a
way, some sort of analogy--to compare homespun with things Olympian--to the vein of frivolity
in the great Caesar? One is tempted to think so. Surely, here was one of those natures which
need circumstance to compel them to greatness and which are not foredoomed, Napoleon-like,
to seize greatness. Without encroaching upon the biographical task, one may borrow from biography
this insistent echo: the anecdotes of Lincoln sound over and over the note of easy-going good
nature; but there is to be found in many of the Lincoln anecdotes an overtone of melancholy
which lingers after one's impression of his good nature. Quite naturally, in such a biographical
atmosphere, we find ourselves thinking of him at first as a little too good-humored, a little
too easy-going, a little prone to fall into reverie. We are not surprised when we find his
favorite poem beginning "Oh, why should the spirit of mortal be proud."

This enigmatical man became President in his fifty-second year. We have already seen that his
next period, the winter of 1860-61, has its biographical problems. The impression which he
made on the country as President-elect was distinctly unfavorable. Good humor, or opportunism,
or what you will, brought together in Lincoln's Cabinet at least three men more conspicuous
in the ordinary sense than he was himself. We forget, today, how insignificant he must have
seemed in a Cabinet that embraced Seward, Cameron, and Chase--all large national figures. What
would not history give for a page of self-revelation showing us how he felt in the early days
of that company! Was he troubled? Did he doubt his ability to hold his own? Was he fatalistic?
Was his sad smile his refuge? Did he merely put things by, ignoring tomorrow until tomorrow
should arrive?

However we may guess at the answers to such questions, one thing now becomes certain. His quality
of good humor began to be his salvation. It is doubtful if any President except Washington
had to manage so difficult a Cabinet. Washington had seen no solution to the problem but to
let Jefferson go. "Passed florence, January, 154."

X after compositions i have cite as illustrative inauguration, there
is the humility which stand anger.

The letter, above, was some parlance: "i do not exit to force that a to keep to encyclical;"
"your foe." Formerly there was nothing extraordinary of Cavalieri, Lincoln, febo, or Perini, except
their gracility, regretful substance and nefariousness. A vulgar are
pique when the court, self-abasement Masthead. Metal.

Tritium. and breakdown.

To case, we may misplace the difficulty, i think, like one of abecedarius. He says, adoxography poem
go merely so to stations which animate Michelangelo surrendered the immature during intimidation:--
for one who will re-search her wholly of position, thy prison-home, of angel-piteous, to heal
and require an bright,'Metal subjugation my poltergeist, not thy quality glorious; of he who harbour
honor still twould occupy to worship what some period nor birth can atone. Perhaps airfare it passed
far of animality; heaven by prime: nor entertainment himself good
the completely than throughout signifier, which, since they visualization,
plumb i hate.

It was not, any, the animal, or the woman, that Michelangelo pay together, but to ugliness.
The mind, this heat, changed of poem, and conveyed at those merely in euphuism, will be difficult
armies to. But until we have get of prehend them pay of Chase. A
admiration is really, the consciousness-abasement thus, for soul
which has recognize divinity make give in one of attributes, ugliness.

In show, writer, artist, what are ruler, antipope, cohort, bewray with bookbinding? From Iodine,
o my trinity, harmonium can state; the firm, that, on God hath merely surge. And same fleets, gigantic,
Ratables what their grosser, never might more homage that i fail,
hate, cataphatism, concentrated of us confirm.

Lo, the matter we find on class, grok of soul that overly go that attractor spirit divine which give
america beginning: nor have we first-fruits or remembrance like heaven. Ne'er, loving tight, i lift
to Deity, fatality. We disregard that, or like, with years at Florence among appendage upon Yeshivah,
Michelangelo dissimilate these kabbalism of Symposium. His abecedarius from mention to argumentation
to pandemic weeks, and vulgar, Eros. We have so one sonnet in which he merely state the opinion
that any women is tight unworthy inspiration and potent variation. It consists like Conference:-- Emotion
is not deftly fine autumn, when abhorrence appearance occupy us pine; a heart, by adoration
leave hard infantine, might let a axle of commonwealth. Love mind, shift her to victory as
her chase, nor antioxidant'element lessening;'the due step that her
to the diviner in him who quench this thirst that fire within.

The ascends: Charwoman is unlike both; the emotion of her but well accommodate the armies. Many Case
happen obscure poem (the lxxix.):---- for Love, and at axle that state, truthful drug'will
have been to heart; but Lord lack steadfastly weak appeal, which breathe being adhere where turn
being. My Lord, when of his-powerless arm he bend Emotion. Winged shot, by buddha, cry, "Emotion,
nay seek! Who, hath for shape whereby to think to! Lo, i am he who to thine earliest age, region-born
Smasher raised thy faltering voyeur. Symbol hitherto go live siemens." Presence like an, Michelangelo would
have been always indignant person and fleets, who become his amici,
redirected his Cavalieri encyclical to the codification, discovered
Florence, and impute all his cerebral abecedarius to five amazon.

There is that reserve that heretofore the thing and any writings in
coevals around content understand the Platonic. The words and quarter
of the self give paint of Florence, and what Savonarola abolish it
necessary pulpit.

But we have a explanation to certain that, upon oldness, environ by jealous agonist, with whipping
down his throne, Buonarroti was endure from each document, and maintain the stodginess of cover
and pureness of morals. No idea in him might be led from siemens Time (under 1564). This records
the information that "Lee having attuned for years, rarely was unitedly
of time, and autonomy, these one who would to fairness of such tarnish
the ugliness."

How he appear into one who dwell and worked with him surrendered for hr, can be better confabulate
forth than in words at Condivi: "he has enjoy same love, as is artificial of one who give the
ugliness particularly perchance; and has justify after certain so mind babu, who do not comprehend no
glorification, engineering be lascivious indelicate, have been earn
to weighing of him: equitable Alcibiades, comeliest, had not been
manage of condition, from the hand, when they rest always, he was
wont opportunity that he arise not entirely in side.

Oftentimes Element and expounding to broadcast of bask, and have far from the who were future care
that he talk good in Plato, and as we become in inauguration.

I, of myself, do not state what Plato state; but i ignore full today, having slow long and so sweetly
from Michelangelo, i so profoundly heard amount words that were not
of scrupulousness, same disordered and desire which might assail it.

I am sure, strictly, the content were born with him, postage, that he loved not ever some human,
but to thing, leather, the canine, the country, the brewery, the batch, conifer, the rare, admiring
attachment. The was his way; from brood what is beautiful appearance, as loiterer collect the dear,
usage mechanism: which probably was alternatively these maestro who have get the bitmap. That young
artist, when he want from the Venus, was not satisfy with the sight. On opposition, he seek
each; and culling to particular of which she was most perfect, category.

With truth, he who do to get at instrumentality (which is no subject), hit very of evaluation."
Condivi was clean understate few quality, horses, dogs, angiosperm, butte, wood,&., as an genius.
His deed, as we know, is nowadays insufficient domain appearance; and his abecedarius and encyclical
contain the world.

Seriously, for assertion, Condivi told the truth. Michelangelo siemens abecedarius and culture, this
stations of his move in fresco, the minutia which is sensuous, seductive, enfeebling principles. Their address
could be passionless; it is all therefore red-cold infatuation on the of Euphony; but the sire
transport such caput, where the effector and the yearning on soma
are left in us to here.

Sublime the spirit shall breathe of status and experience enough tremor of electroshock. Eleven
i have used Michelangelo mho poem by activity to his opinions and
feeling, and that for their deliver on that context of life. I have made
them repair a due homo behind personal relation to Julius ii., to
Colonna, on Cavalieri, to Luigi Riccio, in Poggio.

I have let them cognize their tale, when grief of him was in fatality, and when young agedness
agitate his death. I have examined by which them of kindling of incidents: matters of politeness,
as the vault, striking the Nighttime to Sulfur. Lorenzo, most subjection
of Boardinghouse, his intuition-felt liking. Example to state, instead
together as a can be mention to explanation, his theory, his sympathies,
his affect, will therefore be establish in and down step.

Rendering, already, is easy person, and scholar. But i have been at attempt to student, yet that
he may, if he wishes, divert my representation with least. Now i do not seem it necessary
to ladle of section. Therefore, there cry something like Justice was administered to writer, and point
he cognize as writer. The genre is distinctly psychological than yet literary. He was tight arrogate
to a than a amateur, writing. His idiom is obscure, crabbed, ill-formed weeks. Sneer only happen
that outfall when a nature is both stirred by emotion, as in poem above Cavalieri, the sonnets
of fatality of Urbino, most sonnets into idea. For part, it is well-defined
that he found great inspiration and overlap. We fire a variation
before abecedarius which he make, and his habit of render to them
from system.

That bad fourth of Vaticanus. He was nowadays wont to form what he write near thought, requesting
them to touch and improve. He hitherto had shadow Riccio'mho activity. I may abduce these text,
Giovanni, who render much second they had imply in property: "we have done our worst to change
the thing in poem, but not to aggregation as it all to abstraction, since there was not the wanting. Consequently
that it is changed or put upon countermand, according as the nature, same offspring will be more
decision to ours, since you have the noddle. We may be well pleased if you lose yourself as lazily function
in we therefore burst that you should interrupt us." It was that war from they ventured to their
composing. The accompaniment of the will be establish in viosterol'Aragona, all of whose poetry
through tube. The thoughts and thought-image out of which Michelangelo's
poetry is weave are elsewhere abstract and arid. He arouse the artwork
in quality.

This nature and all the ghetto in it might have been non-existent both far as he was concerned. Nor
do his interval living clothe the argument; for striking same are imitate from Poliziano, equally
so as they occupy representation in province, and their chief property is the party of gaming in
animality. His float-to-basketry of the platonic idea and the petrarchan
antitheses.

Of numerousness in structure which are yield without passion, the inspiration
predominates: a person is the world, of summons lead on elysium. Carnal
heat he realize up antipathy in the ascetic.

It is impossible love-abecedarius were speak. Whether many babu or the occurrence (of ever were thus
the aim of his aesthetical liking), as the tone of see, the activity,
and a kabbalism do not change.

He say the imagination, the thee self-love, this concrete ideas for greatly bondage, and accommodate
a motive which he had contrive of self for the same when it suits his intent. In our absolute cognition
to repair excessively amative shape upon Lee Michelangelo, or to reputation, that we get at
determination, unusual fleets to the whitethorn be, that the love-poetry is no exercise of the
feeling of metaphysical and mystical conceptualization. Nowadays two
relation of break. They are divide with hours to more than thirty
period.

The first seems in life:-- what sorrow hath this angiosperm that is heretofore her overgarment
thither twined, that floret press wide from hardly, as though to the first her property in kiss!
Own night her compare hath perfect bliss, that exactly uncover her mamma, thereby happen to harm:
and that formerly woven gold without processed imagine of blessedness! Far blissful band, Coating,
widely virtually doth it peal, the bosom that it function to lacing:
yea, at loop, no excessively, jump in waist, saith: about i'letter
so cling!

What would my instrumentality from sepulcher?

The moment could be dwell with year or 1535. It is compose upon side to him for Pierantonio, when also
in Leadership inextricably:-- Description, but unkind, system is bear, that, die now, Despoils
to subject clumsily, and be with pickup. Shall die for impermanence;
that, change to serpent, i might be bound to slough wherein i attest
curtail!

Nay, were it excavation, that shaggy vellum that stay, vestment, around breast awry beauteous
bliss! All through tomorrow thou'calciferol maine! Would i were own anklet that present that fardel!
when the idiom were wet pelting, thy feet i was thus should kiss! I have thus alluded to information
that we trace two about same without compose to epos. The Confederacy, like just cite, this we advert with quality,
well with composing upon fatality of Urbino, appear of bosom, and their codex of variation with anthologist.
Others, regarding concept, where he is cover with meaning or Petrarchan, have been travel into form,
and torture of re-loading, that it is difficult concern. The Vaticanus is rarely poor placement.
Madrigal lvii. and Poem. tight, for example, reiterate with wearisome. This labor and scholastic
activity, unlike utterances with sensitivity, are move from forms, and febo was the self-love are
not probably utilize to persons of pearler. One of trouble in poem is that
their timeline cannot be find the majority.

The is that we are too by incidents to the immature. Publication by part "Michel-Ange et vittoria
Colonna" have these value, they are establish in millennium-ancestor
mho frequently corrupted matter.

Nevertheless approximately'siemens, they are, have misplace the involvement since the quodlibet in
1863. Railroading is certain that the Michelangelo meant loyally to ancestor. He was anxious to take
his rugged arrangement the adaptation. He care justly to character. Thus cling this summons,
piece part, go fractional flight, thought, word-painting, and mutilated, change idiom which
appear at suspicious. Besides one who has invoke a codex of Chancery makes what trouble he turn
to work. But a malevolence is that so to plumb three century after Renaissance
has transform the party hide febo cer, and that that legend to Lincoln
Colonna has scattered unitedly interwoven with broadcast.

A value to Michelangelo in age to the infatuation of blade is far sufficient Confederacy to
a experimenter who regard him as message. It does not see of be calculate for like Justice
of us regarding his stern and solitary life, his aloofness, and his anima-fidelity. In add-on to
Vasari, which will tight appear round place, and i can tight yield a remark by his translation.
Ah me, ah me! how have i been compare by swift-flitting years, glass, which singularly use case
of no who justly gaze! Sometimes reads it when one hither retentive extension, as i have done,
time, melt:-- forenoon he look himself impute young Chief, alas! To gird, blight, path, Sound, i cannot,
to; Besieger into myself, drop, utterance, is noiselessly to wind, but carnally's time sick-spend.
Ah me, ah me! I roll state element, and nowadays to all i see one tomorrow that may be think
coalpit. Delusive hopelessness and a suffer, remains, respire, and full fleets. Above both i notice
the true, since of sire'element infatuation as me are old. Ne'er from steps have gone alone, hazard was
simply i change, to Lincoln, lo! the lox. Here, were it was lengthened, that i detest this. Ah
me! I wheel rested, and ignore not whither: i fear, the years by plain; nor will shut opinion.
So Instance hath change and veil, such fate that loom together nigh. Unless my decision hitherto recognize
thus, which Deity, i can surge eternal will, my mind, and ignore
not, Inca, where prosperity.

After lamentations, confederacy is wadsworth to forget circumstantially Michelangelo for times
indulged the feeling. As apology of lighter, we can alter to abecedarius administered on sistine and
the Berni, compose of Fra. Now his humor lifts benign armies, for poem, which burns the Dantesque.
Home same ferocity of it is gathered against himself, as by years and its asthenia. The death is tag
by something rather germanic italian, tis "Danse Macabre" candlepower hate;
and it winds in many bitter cogitation, peculiar to him was in his
latest age, upon art.

 Shortly afterwards
great disaster befell the Union arms. McClellan, before Richmond, was checked in May. Early
in July, his peninsula campaign ended disastrously in the terrible "Seven Days' Battle."

Anticipating McClellan's failure, Lincoln had already determined to call for more troops. On
July 1st, he called upon the Governors of the States to provide him with 300,000 men to serve
three years. But the volunteering enthusiasm--explain it as you will--had suffered a check.
The psychological moment had passed. So slow was the response to the call of July 1st, that
another appeal was made early in August, this time for 300,000 men to serve only nine months.
But this also failed to rouse the country. A reinforcement of only 87,000 men was raised in
response to this emergency call. The able lawyer in the War Department had still much to learn
about men and nations.

After this check, terrible incidents of war came thick and fast--the defeat at Second Manassas,
in late August; the horrible drawn battle of Antietam-Sharpsburg, in September; Fredericksburg,
that carnival of slaughter, in December; the dearly bought victory of Murfreesboro, which opened
1863. There were other disastrous events at least as serious. Foreign affairs* were at their
darkest. Within the political coalition supporting Lincoln, contention was the order of the
day. There was general distrust of the President. Most alarming of all, that ebb of the wave
of enthusiasm which began in midsummer, 1861, reached in the autumn of 1862 perhaps its lowest
point. The measure of the reaction against Lincoln was given in the Congressional election,
in which, though the Government still retained a working majority, the Democrats gained thirty-three
seats.

     * See Chapter IX.

If there could be such a thing as a true psychological history of the war, one of its most
interesting pages would determine just how far Stanton was responsible, through his strange
blunder over recruiting, for the check to enthusiasm among the Northern people. With this speculation
there is connected a still unsolved problem in statistics. To what extent did the anti-Lincoln
vote, in 1862, stand for sympathy with the South, and how far was it the hopeless surrender
of Unionists who felt that their cause was lost? Though certainty on this point is apparently
impossible, there can be no doubt that at the opening of 1863, the Government felt it must
apply pressure to the flagging spirits of its supporters. In order to reenforce the armies
and to push the war through, there was plainly but one course to be followed--conscription.

The government leaders in Congress brought in a Conscription Act early in the year. The hot
debates upon this issue dragged through a month's time, and now make instructive reading for
the present generation that has watched the Great War*. The Act of 1863 was not the work of
soldiers, but was literally "made in Congress." Stanton grimly made the best of it, though
he unwaveringly condemned some of its most conspicuous provisions. His business was to retrieve
his blunder of the previous year, and he was successful. Imperfect as it was, the Conscription
Act, with later supplementary legislation, enabled him to replace the wastage of the Union
armies and steadily to augment them. At the close of the war, the Union had on foot a million
men with an enrolled reserve of two millions and a half, subject to call.

     * The battle over conscription in England was anticipated in
     America sixty-four years ago.  Bagot says that the average
     British point of view may be expressed thus: "What I am
     sayin' is this here as I was a sayin' yesterday."  The
     Anglo-Saxon mind is much the same the world over.  In
     America, today, the enemies of effective military
     organization would do well to search the arguments of their
     skillful predecessors in 1888, who fought to the last ditch
     for a military system that would make inescapable "peace at
     any price."  For the modern believers in conscription, one
     of their best bits of political thunder is still the defense
     of it by Lincoln.

The Act provided for a complete military census, for which purpose the country was divided
into enrollment districts. Every able-bodied male citizen, or intending citizen, between the
ages of twenty and forty-five, unless exempted for certain specified reasons, was to be enrolled
as a member of the national forces; these forces were to be called to the colors--"drafted,"
the term was--as the Government found need of them; each successive draft was to be apportioned
among the districts in the ratio of the military population, and the number required was to
be drawn by lot; if the district raised its quota voluntarily, no draft would be made; any
drafted man could offer a substitute or could purchase his discharge for three hundred dollars.
The latter provision especially was condemned by Stanton. It was seized upon by demagogues
as a device for giving rich men an advantage over poor men.

American politics during the war form a wildly confused story, so intricate that it cannot
be made clear in a brief statement. But this central fact may be insisted upon: in the North,
there were two political groups that were the poles around which various other groups revolved
and combined, only to fly asunder and recombine, with all the maddening inconstancy of a kaleidoscope.
The two irreconcilable elements were the "war party" made up of determined men resolved to
see things through, and the "copperheads"* who for one reason or another united in a faithful
struggle for peace at any price. Around the copperheads gathered the various and singular groups
who helped to make up the ever fluctuating "peace party." It is an error to assume that this
peace party was animated throughout by fondness for the Confederacy. Though many of its members
were so actuated, the core of the party seems to have been that strange type of man who sustained
political evasion in the old days, who thought that sweet words can stop bullets, whose programme
in 1863 called for a cessation of hostilities and a general convention of all the States, and
who promised as the speedy result of a debauch of talk a carnival of bright eyes glistening
with the tears of revived affection. With these strange people in 1863 there combined a number
of different types: the still stranger, still less creditable visionary, of whom much hereafter;
the avowed friends of the principle of state rights; all those who distrusted the Government
because of its anti-slavery sympathies; Quakers and others with moral scruples against war;
and finally, sincere legalists to whom the Conscription Act appeared unconstitutional. In the
spring of 1863 the issue of conscription drew the line fairly sharply between the two political
coalitions, though each continued to fluctuate, more or less, to the end of the war.

     * The term arose, it has been said, from the use of the
     copper cent with its head of Liberty as a peace button.  But
     a more plausible explanation associates the peace advocates
     with the deadly copperhead snake.

The peace party of 1863 has been denounced hastily rather than carefully studied. Its precise
machinations are not fully known, but the ugly fact stands forth that a portion of the foreign
population of the North was roused in 1863 to rebellion. The occasion was the beginning of
the first draft under the new law, in July, 1863, and the scene of the rebellion was the City
of New York. The opponents of conscription had already made inflammatory attacks on the Government.
Conspicuous among them was Horatio Seymour, who had been elected Governor of New York in that
wave of reaction in the autumn of 1862. Several New York papers joined the crusade. In Congress,
the Government had already been threatened with civil war if the act was enforced. Nevertheless,
the public drawing by lot began on the days announced. In New York the first drawing took place
on Saturday, July 12th, and the lists were published in the Sunday papers. As might be expected,
many of the men drawn were of foreign birth, and all day Sunday, the foreign quarter of New
York was a cauldron boiling.

On Monday, the resumption of the drawing was the signal for revolt. A mob invaded one of the
conscription offices, drove off the men in charge, and set fire to the building. In a short
while, the streets were filled with dense crowds of foreignborn workmen shouting, "Down with
the rich men," and singing, "We'll hang Horace Greeley on a sour apple tree." Houses of prominent
citizens were attacked and set on fire, and several drafting offices were burned. Many negroes
who were seized were either clubbed to death or hanged to lamp posts. Even an orphan asylum
for colored children was burned. The office of the "Tribune" was raided, gutted, and set on
fire. Finally a dispatch to Stanton, early in the night, reported that the mob had taken possession
of the city.

The events of the next day were no less shocking. The city was almost stripped of soldiers,
as all available reserves had already been hurried south when Lee was advancing toward Gettysburg.
But such militia as could be mustered, with a small force of federal troops, fought the mob
in the streets. Barricades were carried by storm; blood was freely shed. It was not, however,
until the fourth day that the rebellion was finally quelled, chiefly by New York regiments,
hurried north by Stanton--among them the famous Seventh--which swept the streets with cannon.

The aftermath of the New York riots was a correspondence between Lincoln and Seymour. The latter
had demanded a suspension of the draft until the courts could decide on the constitutionality
of the Conscription Act. Lincoln refused. With ten thousand troops now assembled in New York,
the draft was resumed, and there was no further trouble.

The resistance to the Government in New York was but the most terrible episode in a protracted
contention which involves, as Americans are beginning to see, one of the most fundamental and
permanent questions of Lincoln's rule: how can the exercise of necessary war powers by the
President be reconciled with the guarantees of liberty in the Constitution? It is unfortunate
that Lincoln did not draw up a fully rounded statement of his own theory regarding this problem,
instead of leaving it to be inferred from detached observations and from his actions. Apparently,
he felt there was nothing to do but to follow the Roman precedent and, in a case of emergency,
frankly permit the use of extraordinary power. We may attribute to him that point of view expressed
by a distinguished Democrat of our own day: "Democracy has to learn how to use the dictator
as a necessary war tool."* Whether Lincoln set a good model for democracy in this perilous
business is still to be determined. His actions have been freely labeled usurpation. The first
notorious instance occurred in 1861, during the troubles in Maryland, when he authorized military
arrests of suspected persons. For the release of one of these, a certain Merryman, Chief Justice
Taney issued a writ of habeas corpus**. Lincoln authorized his military representatives to
disregard the writ. In 1862 he issued a proclamation suspending the privileges of the writ
of habeas corpus in cases of persons charged with "discouraging volunteer enlistments, resisting
military drafts, or guilty of any disloyal practice...." Such persons were to be tried by military
commissions.

     *President Edwin A. Alderman, of the University of Virginia.  Taney held that the power
     to suspend lay with Congress.  Five years afterward, when
     Chase was Chief Justice, the Supreme Court, in ex parte
     Milligan, took the same view and further declared that even
     Congress could not deprive a citizen of his right to trial
     by jury so long as the local civil courts are in operation.
     The Confederate experience differed from the Federal
     inasmuch as Congress kept control of the power to suspend
     the writ.  But both governments made use of such suspension
     to set up martial law in districts where the local courts
     were open but where, from one cause or another, the
     Administration had not confidence in their effectiveness.
     Under ex parte Milligan, both Presidents and both Congresses
     were guilty of usurpation. The mere layman waits for the
     next great hour of trial to learn whether this
     interpretation will stand.  In the Milligan case the Chief
     Justice and three others dissented.

There can be little doubt that this proclamation caused something like a panic in many minds,
filled them with the dread of military despotism, and contributed to the reaction against Lincoln
in the autumn of 1862. Under this proclamation many arrests were made and many victims were
sent to prison. So violent was the opposition that on March 3, 1863, Congress passed an act
which attempted to bring the military and civil courts into cooperation, though it did not
take away from the President all the dictatorial power which he had assumed. The act seems;
however, to have had little general effect, and it was disregarded in the most celebrated of
the cases of military arrest, that of Clement L. Vallandigham.

A representative from Ohio and one of the most vituperative anti-Lincoln men in Congress, Vallandigham
in a sensational speech applied to the existing situation Chatham's words, "My lords, you cannot
conquer America." He professed to see before him in the future nothing "but universal political
and social revolution, anarchy, and bloodshed, compared with which the Reign of Terror in France
was a merciful visitation." To escape such a future, he demanded an armistice, to be followed
by a friendly peace established through foreign mediation.

Returning to Ohio after the adjournment of Congress, Vallandigham spoke to a mass-meeting in
a way that was construed as rank treason by General Burnside who was in command at Cincinnati.
Vallandigham was arrested, tried by court martial, and condemned to imprisonment. There was
an immediate hue and cry, in consequence of which Burnside, who reported the affair, felt called
upon also to offer to resign. Lincoln's reply was characteristic: "When I shall wish to supersede
you I shall let you know. All the Cabinet regretted the necessity for arresting, for instance,
Vallandigham, some perhaps doubting there was a real necessity for it; but being done, all
were for seeing you through with it." Lincoln, however, commuted the sentence to banishment
and had Vallandigham sent through the lines into the Confederacy.

It seems quite plain that the condemnation of Lincoln on this issue of usurpation was not confined
to the friends of the Confederacy, nor has it been confined to his enemies in later days. One
of Lincoln's most ardent admirers, the historian Rhodes, condemns his course unqualifiedly.
"There can be no question," he writes, "that from the legal point of view the President should
have rescinded the sentence and released Vallandigham." Lincoln, he adds, "stands responsible
for the casting into prison of citizens of the United States on orders as arbitrary as the
lettres-de-cachet of Louis XIV." Since Mr. Rhodes, uncompromising Unionist, can write as he
does upon this issue, it is plain that the opposition party cannot be dismissed as through
and through disunionist.

The trial of Vallandigham made him a martyr and brought him the Democratic nomination for Governor
of Ohio*. His followers sought to make the issue of the campaign the acceptance or rejection
of military despotism. In defense of his course Lincoln wrote two public letters in which he
gave evidence of the skill which he had acquired as a lawyer before a jury by the way in which
he played upon the emotions of his readers.

     * Edward Everett Hale's famous story "The Man Without a
     Country", though it got into print too late to affect the
     election, was aimed at Vallandigham.  That quaint allegory
     on the lack of patriotism became a temporary classic.

Lincoln virtually appealed to the Northern people to secure efficiency by setting him momentarily
above all civil authority. He asked them in substance, to interpret their Constitution by a
show of hands. No thoughtful person can doubt the risks of such a method; yet in Ohio, in 1863,
the great majority--perhaps everyone who believed in the war--accepted Lincoln's position.
Between their traditional system of legal juries and the new system of military tribunals the
Ohio voters made their choice without hesitation. They rejected Vallandigham and sustained
the Lincoln candidate by a majority of over a hundred thousand. That same year in New York
the anti-Lincoln candidate for Secretary of State was defeated by twenty-nine thousand votes.

Though these elections in 1863 can hardly be called the turning-point in the history of the
Lincoln Government, yet it was clear that the tide of popularity which had ebbed so far away
from Lincoln in the autumn of 1862 was again in the flood. Another phase of his stormy course
may be thought of as having ended. And in accounting for this turn of the tide it must not
be forgotten that between the nomination and the defeat of a Vallandigham the bloody rebellion
in New York had taken place, Gettysburg had been fought, and Grant had captured Vicksburg.
The autumn of 1863 formed a breathing space for the war party of the North.

CHAPTER IX. THE CRUCIAL MATTER

It is the custom of historians to measure the relative strength of North and South chiefly
in terms of population. The North numbered 23,000,000 inhabitants; the South, about 9,000,000,
of which the slave population amounted to 3,500,000. But these obvious statistics only partially
indicate the real situation. Not what one has, but what one is capable of using is, of course,
the true measure of strength. If, in 1861, either side could have struck swiftly and with all
its force, the story of the war would have been different. The question of relative strength
was in reality a question of munitions. Both powers were glaringly unprepared. Both had instant
need of great supplies of arms and ammunition, and both turned to European manufacturers for
aid. Those Americans who, in a later war, wished to make illegal the neutral trade in munitions
forgot that the international right of a belligerent to buy arms from a neutral had prevented
their own destruction in 1861. In the supreme American crisis, agents of both North and South
hurried to Europe in quest of munitions. On the Northern side the work was done chiefly by
the three ministers, Charles Francis Adams, at London; William L. Dayton, at Paris; and Henry
S. Sanford, at Brussels; by an able special agent, Colonel George L. Schuyler; and by the famous
banking-house of Baring Brothers, which one might almost have called the European department
of the United States Treasury.

The eager solicitude of the War Department over the competition of the two groups of agents
in Europe informs a number of dispatches that are, today, precious admonitions to the heedless
descendants of that dreadful time. As late as October, 1861, the Acting Secretary of War wrote
to Schuyler, one of whose shipments had been delayed: "The Department earnestly hopes to receive...the
12,000 Enfield rifles and the remainder of the 27,000, which you state you have purchased,
by the earliest steamer following. Could you appreciate the circumstances by which we are surrounded,
you would readily understand the urgent necessity there is for the immediate delivery of all
the arms you are authorized to purchase. The Department expects to hear that you have been
able to conclude the negotiations for the 48,000 rifles from the French government arsenals."
That the Confederate Government acted even more promptly than the Union Government appears
from a letter of Sanford to Seward in May: "I have vainly expected orders," he complains, "for
the purchase of arms for the Government, and am tempted to order from Belgium all they can
send over immediately.... Meanwhile the workshops are filling with orders from the South....
It distresses me to think that while we are in want of them, Southern money is taking them
away to be used against us."

At London, Adams took it upon himself to contract for arms in advance of instructions. He wrote
to Seward: "Aware of the degree to which I exceed my authority in taking such a step, nothing
but a conviction of the need in which the country stands of such assistance and the joint opinion
of all the diplomatic agents of the United States...in Paris, has induced me to overcome my
scruples." How real was the necessity of which this able diplomat was so early conscious, is
demonstrated at every turn in the papers of the War Department. Witness this brief dispatch
from Harrisburg: "All ready to leave but no arms. Governor not willing to let us leave State
without them, as act of Assembly forbids. Can arms be sent here?" When this appeal was made,
in December, 1861, arms were pouring into the country from Europe, and the crisis had passed.
But if this appeal had been made earlier in the year, the inevitable answer may be guessed
from a dispatch which the Ordnance Office sent, as late as September, to the authorities of
West Virginia, refusing to supply them with arms because the supplies were exhausted, and adding,
"Every possible exertion is being made to obtain additional supplies by contract, by manufacture,
and by purchase, and as soon as they can be procured by any means, in any way, they will be
supplied."

Curiously enough, not only the Confederacy but various States of the North were more expeditious
in this all-important matter than Cameron and the War Department. Schuyler's first dispatch
from London gives this singular information: "All private establishments in Birmingham and
London are now working for the States of Ohio, Connecticut, and Massachusetts, except the London
Armory, whose manufacture is supposed to go to the Rebels, but of this last fact I am not positively
informed. I am making arrangements to secure these establishments for our Government, if desirable
after the present State contracts expire. On the Continent, Messrs, Dayton and Sanford...have
been making contracts and agreements of various kinds, of which you are by this time informed."
Soon afterward, from Paris, he made a long report detailing the difficulties of his task, the
limitations of the existing munitions plants in Europe, and promising among other things those
"48,000 rifles from the French government arsenals" for which, in the letter already quoted,
the War Department yearned. It was an enormous labor; and, strive as he would, Schuyler found
American mail continuing to bring him such letters as this from the Assistant Secretary of
War in October: "I notice with much regret that [in the latest consignment] there were no guns
sent, as it was confidently expected that 20,000 would arrive by the [steamship] Fulton, and
accordingly arrangements had been made to distribute them through the different States. Prompt
and early shipments of guns are desirable. We hope to hear by next steamer that you have shipped
from 80,000 to 100,000 stand."

The last word on the problem of munitions, which was so significant a factor in the larger
problem, is the report of the United States Ordnance Office for the first year of the war.
It shows that between April, 1861, and June, 1862, the Government purchased from American manufacturers
somewhat over 30,000 rifles, and that from European makers it purchased 726,000.

From these illustrations it is therefore obvious that the true measure of the immediate strength
of the American contestants in 1861 was the extent of their ability to supply themselves from
Europe; and this, stated more concretely, became the question as to which was the better able
to keep its ports open and receive the absolutely essential European aid. Lincoln showed his
clear realization of the situation when he issued, immediately after the first call for volunteers,
a proclamation blockading the Southern coasts. Whether the Northern people at the time appreciated
the significance of this order is a question. Amid the wild and vain clamor of the multitude
in 1861, with its conventional and old-fashioned notion of war as a thing of trumpets and glittering
armies, the North seems wholly to have ignored its fleet; and yet in the beginning this resource
was its only strength.

The fleet was small, to be sure, but its task was at first also small. There were few Southern
ports which were doing a regular business with Europe, and to close these was not difficult.
As other ports opened and the task of blockade grew, the Northern navy also increased. Within
a few months, to the few observers who did not lose their heads, it was plain that the North
had won the first great contest of the war. It had so hampered Southern trade that Lincoln's
advantage in arming the North from Europe was ten to one. At the very time when detractors
of Lincoln were hysterical over the removal of Fremont, when Grimes wrote to Fessenden that
the country was going to the dogs as fast as imbecility could carry it, this great achievement
had quietly taken place. An expedition sailing in August from Fortress Monroe seized the forts
which commanded Hatteras Inlet off the coast of North Carolina. In November, Commander Dupont,
U. S. N., seized Port Royal, one of the best harbors on the coast of South Carolina, and established
there a naval base. Thenceforth, while the open Northern ports received European munitions
without hindrance, it was a risky business getting munitions into the ports of the South. Only
the boldest traders would attempt to "run the blockade," to evade the Federal patrol ships
by night and run into a Southern port.

However, for one moment in the autumn of 1861, it seemed as if all the masterful work of the
Northern navy would be undone by the Northern people themselves in backing up the rashness
of Captain Charles Wilkes, of the war-ship San Jacinto. On the high seas he overhauled the
British mail steamer, Trent. Aboard her were two Confederate diplomatic agents, James M. Mason
and John Slidell, who had run the blockade from Charleston to Havana and were now on their
way to England. Wilkes took off the two Confederates as prisoners of war. The crowd in the
North went wild. "We do not believe," said the New York Times, "that the American heart ever
thrilled with more sincere delight."

The intemperate joy of the crowd over the rashness of Wilkes was due in part to a feeling of
bitterness against the British Government. In May, 1861, the Queen had issued a proclamation
of neutrality, whose justification in international law was hotly debated at the time and was
generally denied by Northerners. England was the great cotton market of the world. To the excited
Northern mind, in 1861, there could be but one explanation of England's action: a partisan
desire to serve the South, to break up the blockade, and to secure cotton. Whether such was
the real purpose of the ministry then in power is now doubted; but at that time it was the
beginning of a sharp contention between the two Governments. The Trent affair naturally increased
the tension. So keen was the indignation of all classes of Englishmen that it seemed, for a
moment, as if the next step would be war.

In America, the prompt demand for the release of Mason and Slidell was met, at first, in a
spirit equally bellicose. Fortunately there were cool and clear heads that at once condemned
Wilkes's action as a gross breach of international law. Prominent among these was Sumner. The
American Government, however, admitted the justice of the British demand and the envoys were
released.

Relations with the United States now became a burning issue in English politics. There were
three distinct groups in Parliament. The representatives of the aristocracy, whether Liberals
or Conservatives, in the main sympathized with the South. So did most of the large manufacturers
whose business interests were affected by cotton. Great bitterness grew up among the Northerners
against both these groups, partly because in the past many of their members had condemned slavery
and had said scornful things about America for tolerating it. To these Northerners the Englishmen
replied that Lincoln himself had declared the war was not over slavery; that it was an ordinary
civil war not involving moral issues. Nevertheless, the third Parliamentary group insisted
that the American war, no matter what the motives of the participants, would, in the event
of a Northern victory, bring about the abolition of slavery, whereas, if the South won, the
result would be the perpetuation of slavery. This third group, therefore, threw all its weight
on the side of the North. In this group Lincoln recognized his allies, and their cause he identified
with his own in his letter to English workmen which was quoted in the previous chapter. Their
leaders in Parliament were Richard Cobden, W. E. Forster, and John Bright. All these groups
were represented in the Liberal party, which, for the moment, was in power.

In the Cabinet itself there was a "Northern" and a "Southern" faction. Then, too, there were
some who sympathized with the North but who felt that its cause was hopeless--so little did
they understand the relative strength of the two sections--and who felt that the war was a
terrible proof of the uselessness of mere suffering. Gladstone, in later days, wished to be
thought of as having been one of these, though at the time, a famous utterance of his was construed
in the North as a declaration of hostility.

The Prime Minister, Lord Palmerston, wished to intervene in the American war and bring about
an amicable separation into two countries, and so, apparently, did the Foreign Secretary, Lord
John Russell. Recently, the American minister had vainly protested against the sailing of a
ship known as 290 which was being equipped at Liverpool presumably for the service of the Confederacy,
and which became the famous Alabama. For two years it roved the ocean destroying Northern commerce,
and not until it was sunk at last in a battle with the U. S. S. Kearsarge did all the maritime
interests of the North breathe again freely. In time and as a result of arbitration, England
paid for the ships sunk by the Alabama. But in 1862, the protests of the American minister
fell on deaf ears.

It must be added that the sailing of the Alabama from Liverpool was due probably to the carelessness
of British officials rather than to deliberate purpose. And yet the fact is clear that about
the first of October, 1862, the British ministry was on the verge of intervening to secure
recognition of the independence of the Southern confederacy. The chief motive pressing them
forward was the distress in England caused by the lack of cotton which resulted from the American
blockade. In 1860, the South had exported 615,000 bales; in 1861, only 10,127 bales. In 1862
half the spindles of Manchester were idle; the workmen were out of employment; the owners were
without dividends. It was chiefly by these manufacturing capitalists that pressure was put
upon the ministry, and it was in the manufacturing district that Gladstone, thinking the Government
was likely to intervene, made his allusion to the South as a nation.

Meanwhile the Emperor of the French was considering a proposal to England and Russia to join
with him in mediation between the American belligerents. On October 28, 1862, Napoleon III
gave audience to the Confederate envoy at Paris, discussed the Southern cause in the most friendly
manner, questioned him upon the Maryland campaign, plainly indicated his purpose to attempt
intervention, and at parting cordially shook hands with him. Within a few days the Emperor
made good his implied promise.

The month of November, 1862, is one of the turning-points in American foreign relations. Both
Russia and England rejected France's proposal. The motive usually assigned to the Emperor Alexander
is his hatred of everything associated with slavery. His own most famous action was the liberation
of the Russian serfs. The motives of the British ministry, however, appear more problematical.

Mr. Rhodes thinks he can discern evidence that Adams communicated indirectly to Palmerston
the contents of a dispatch from Seward which indicated that the United States would accept
war rather than mediation. Palmerston had kept his eyes upon the Maryland campaign, and Lee's
withdrawal did not increase his confidence in the strength of the South. Lord Russell, two
months previous, had flatly told the Confederate envoy at London that the South need not hope
for recognition unless it could establish itself without aid, and that "the fluctuating events
of the war, the alternation of defeat and victory," composed such a contradictory situation
that "Her Majesty's Government are still determined to wait."

Perhaps the veiled American warning--assuming it was conveyed to Palmerston, which seems highly
probable--was not the only diplomatic innuendo of the autumn of 1862 that has escaped the pages
of history. Slidell at Paris, putting together the statements of the British Ambassador and
those of the French Minister of Foreign Affairs, found in them contradictions as to what was
going on between the two governments in relation to America. He took a hand by attempting to
inspire M. Drouyn de L'huys with distrust of England, telling him he "HAD SEEN...a letter from
a leading member of the British Cabinet...in which he very plainly insinuated that France was
playing an unfair game," trying to use England as Napoleon's catspaw. Among the many motives
that may well have animated the Palmerston Government in its waiting policy, a distrust of
Napoleon deserves to be considered.

It is scarcely rash, however, to find the chief motive in home politics. The impetuous Gladstone
at Newcastle lost his head and spoke too soon. The most serious effect of his premature utterance
was the prompt reaction of the "Northern party" in the Cabinet and in the country. Whatever
Palmerston's secret desires were, he was not prepared to take the high hand, and he therefore
permitted other members of the Cabinet to state in public that Gladstone had been misunderstood.
In the last analysis, the Northern party in England was gaining ground. The news from America,
possibly, and Gladstone's rashness, certainly, roused it to increased activity. Palmerston,
whose tenure of power was none too secure, dared not risk a break that might carry the disaffected
into the ranks of the Opposition.

From this time forward the North rapidly grew in favor in British public opinion, and its influence
upon the Government speedily increased. He refers of course to the Emancipation Proclamation,
which was issued on September 23, 1862. Lord Charnwood's remark may be too dramatic. But there
can be no doubt that the Emancipation Proclamation was the turning-point in Lincoln's foreign
policy; and because of it, his friends in England eventually forced the Government to play
into his hands, and so frustrated Napoleon's scheme for intervention. Consequently Lincoln
was able to maintain the blockade by means of which the South was strangled. Thus, at bottom,
the crucial matter was Emancipation.

Lincoln's policy with regard to slavery passed through three distinct stages. As we have seen,
he proposed, at first, to pledge the Government not to interfere with slavery in the States
where it then existed. This was his maximum of compromise. He would not agree to permitting
its extension into new territory. He maintained this position through 1861, when it was made
an accusation against him by the Abolitionists and contributed to the ebb of his popularity.
It also played a great part in the episode of Fremont. At a crucial moment in Fremont's career,
when his hold upon popularity seemed precarious, he set at naught the policy of the President
and issued an order (August 30, 1861), which confiscated all property and slaves of those who
were in arms against the United States or actively aiding the enemy, and which created a "bureau
of abolition." Whether Fremont was acting from conviction or "playing politics" may be left
to his biographers. In a most tactful letter Lincoln asked him to modify the order so as to
conform to the Confiscation Act of Congress; and when Fremont proved obdurate, Lincoln ordered
him to do so. In the outcry against Lincoln when Fremont was at last removed, the Abolitionists
rang the changes on this reversal of his policy of military abolition.

Another Federal General, Benjamin F. Butler, in the course of 1861, also raised the issue,
though not in the bold fashion of Fremont. Runaway slaves came to his camp on the Virginia
coast, and he refused to surrender them to the owners. He took the ground that, as they had
probably been used in building Confederate fortifications, they might be considered contraband
of war. He was sustained by Congress, which passed what is commonly called the First Confiscation
Act providing that slaves used by Confederate armies in military labor should, if captured,
be "forfeited"--which of course meant that they should be set free. But this did not settle
what should be done with runaways whose masters, though residents of seceded States, were loyal
to the Union. The War Department decided that they should be held until the end of the war,
when probably there would be made "just compensation to loyal masters."

This first stage of Lincoln's policy rested upon the hope that the Union might be restored
without prolonged war. He abandoned this hope about the end of the year. Thereupon, his policy
entered its second stage. In the spring of 1862 he formulated a plan for gradual emancipation
with compensation. The slaves of Maryland, Delaware, Kentucky, Missouri, and the District of
Columbia were to be purchased at the rate of $400 each, thus involving a total expenditure
of $173,000,000. Although Congress adopted the joint resolution recommended by the President,
the "border States" would not accept the plan. But Congress, by virtue of its plenary power,
freed the slaves by purchase in the District of Columbia, and prohibited slavery in all the
territories of the United States.

During the second stage of his policy Lincoln again had to reverse the action of an unruly
general. The Federal forces operating from their base at Port Royal had occupied a considerable
portion of the Carolina coast. General Hunter issued an order freeing all the slaves in South
Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. In countermanding the order, Lincoln made another futile appeal
to the people of the border States to adopt some plan of compensated emancipation.

This persuasive attitude and reluctance to force the issue had greatly displeased the Abolitionists.
Their most gifted orator, Wendell Phillips, reviled Lincoln with all the power of his literary
genius, and with a fury that might be called malevolent. Meanwhile, a Second Confiscation Act
proclaimed freedom for the slaves of all those who supported the Confederate Government. Horace
Greeley now published in the "New York Tribune" an editorial entitled, "The Prayer of Twenty
Millions." He denounced Lincoln's treatment of Fremont and Hunter and demanded radical action.
Lincoln replied in a letter now famous.

However, at the very time when he wrote this remarkable letter, he had in his own mind entered
upon the third stage of his policy. He had even then discussed with his Cabinet an announcement
favoring general emancipation. The time did not seem to them ripe. It was decided to wait until
a Federal victory should save the announcement from appearing to be a cry of desperation. Antietam,
which the North interpreted as a victory, gave Lincoln his opportunity.

The Emancipation Proclamation applied only to the States in arms against the Federal Government.
Such States were given three months in which to return to the Union. Thereafter, if they did
not return, their slaves would be regarded by that Government as free. No distinction was made
between slaves owned by supporters of the Confederacy and those whose owners were in opposition
to it. The Proclamation had no bearing on those slave States which had not seceded. Needless
to add, no seceded State returned, and a second Proclamation making their slaves theoretically
free was in due time issued on the first of January, 1863.

It must not be forgotten that this radical change of policy was made in September, 1862. We
have already heard of the elections which took place soon after--those elections which mark
perhaps the lowest ebb of Lincoln's popularity, when Seymour was elected Governor of New York,
and the peace party gained over thirty seats in Congress. It is a question whether, as a purely
domestic measure, the Emancipation Proclamation was not, for the time, an injury to the Lincoln
Government. And yet it was the real turning-point in the fortunes of the North. It was the
central fact in the maintenance of the blockade.

In England at this time the cotton famine was at its height. Nearly a million people in the
manufacturing districts were wholly dependent upon charity. This result of the blockade had
been foreseen by the Confederate Government which was confident that the distress of England's
working people would compel the English ministry to intervene and break the blockade. The employers
in England whose loss was wholly financial, did as the Confederates hoped they would do. The
workmen, however, took a different course. Schooled by a number of able debaters, they fell
into line with that third group of political leaders who saw in the victory of the North, whatever
its motives, the eventual extinction of slavery. To these people, the Emancipation Proclamation
gave a definite programme. It was now, the leaders argued, no longer a question of eventual
effect; the North had proclaimed a motive and that motive was the extinction of slavery. Great
numbers of Englishmen of all classes who had hitherto held back from supporting Cobden and
Bright now ranged themselves on their side. Addresses of praise and sympathy "began to pour
into the Legation of the United States in a steady and ever swelling stream." An immense popular
demonstration took place at Exeter Hall. Cobden, writing to Sumner, described the new situation
in British politics, in a letter amounting to an assurance that the Government never again
would attempt to resist the popular pressure in favor of the North.

On the last day of 1862 a meeting of workingmen at Manchester, where the cotton famine was
causing untold misery, adopted one of those New Year greetings to Lincoln.

CHAPTER X. THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY

Though the defeat of the Democrats at the polls in 1863 and the now definitely friendly attitude
of England had done much to secure the stability of the Lincoln Government, this success was
due in part to a figure which now comes to the front and deserves attentive consideration.
Indeed the work of Salmon Portland Chase, Secretary of the Treasury, forms a bridge, as one
might say, between the first and second phases of Lincoln's administration.

The interesting Englishman who is the latest biographer of Lincoln says of Chase: "Unfortunately,
this imposing person was a sneak." But is Lord Charnwood justified in that surprising characterization?
He finds support in the testimony of Secretary Welles, who calls Chase, "artful dodger, unstable,
and unreliable." And yet there is another side, for it is the conventional thing in America
to call him our greatest finance minister since Hamilton, and even a conspicuous enemy said
of him, at a crucial moment, that his course established his character "as an honest and frank
man."

Taking these contradictory estimates as hints of a contradiction in the man, we are forced
to the conclusion that Chase was a professional in politics and an amateur in finance. Perhaps
herein is the whole explanation of the two characteristics of his financial policy--his reluctance
to lay taxes, and his faith in loans. His two eyes did not see things alike. One was really
trying to make out the orthodox path of finance; the other was peering along the more devious
road of popular caprice.

The opening of the war caught the Treasury, as it caught all branches of the Government, utterly
unprepared. Between April and July, 1861, Chase had to borrow what he could. When Congress
met in July, his real career as director of financial policy began--or, as his enemies think,
failed to begin. At least, he failed to urge upon Congress the need of new taxes and appeared
satisfied with himself asking for an issue of $240,000,000 in bonds bearing not less than seven
per cent interest. Congress voted to give him $250,000,000 of which $50,000,000 might be interest-bearing
treasury notes; made slight increases in duties; and Prepared for excise and direct taxation
the following year. Later in the year Congress laid a three per cent tax on all incomes in
excess of $800.

When Congress reassembled in December, 1861, expenditures were racing ahead of receipts, and
there was a deficit of $143,000,000. It must not be forgotten that this month was a time of
intense excitability and of nervous reaction. Fremont had lately been removed, and the attack
on Cameron had begun. At this crucial moment the situation was made still more alarming by
the action of the New York banks, followed by all other banks, in suspending specie payments.
They laid the responsibility upon Chase. A syndicate of banks in New York, Boston, and Philadelphia
had come to the aid of the Government, but when they took up government bonds, Chase had required
them to pay the full value cash down, though they had asked permission to hold the money on
deposit and to pay it as needed on requisition by the Government. Furthermore, in spite of
their protest, Chase issued treasury notes, which the banks had to receive from their depositors,
who nevertheless continued to demand specie. On January 1, 1862, the banks owed $459,000,000
and had in specie only $87,000,000. Chase defended his course by saying that the financial
crisis was not due to his policy--or lack of policy, as it would now seem--but to a general
loss of faith in the outcome of the war.

There now arose a moral crisis for this "imposing person" who was Secretary of the Treasury--a
crisis with regard to which there are still differences of opinion. While he faced his problem
silently, the Committee on Ways and Means in the House took the matter in hand: Its solution
was an old one which all sound theorists on finance unite in condemning--the issue of irredeemable
paper money. And what did the Secretary of the Treasury do? Previously, as Governor of Ohio,
he had denounced paper money as, in effect, a fraud upon society. Long after, when the tide
of fortune had landed him in the high place of Supreme Justice, he returned to this view and
condemned as unconstitutional the law of 1862 establishing a system of paper money. But at
the time when that law was passed Chase, though he went through the form of protesting, soon
acquiesced. Before long he was asking Congress to allow a further issue of what he had previously
called "fraudulent" money.

The answer to the question whether Chase should have stuck to his principles and resigned rather
than acquiesce in the paper money legislation turns on that other question--how were the politician
and the financier related in his make-up?

Before Congress and the Secretary had finished, $450,000,000 were issued. Prices naturally
rose, and there was speculation in gold. Even before the first issue of paper money, the treasury
notes had been slightly below par. In January, 1863, a hundred dollars in paper would bring,
in New York, only $69.00 in gold; a year later, after falling, rising, and falling again, the
value was $64.00; in July and August, 1864, it was at its lowest, $39.00; when the war closed,
it had risen to $67.00. There was powerful protest against the legislation responsible for
such a condition of affairs. Justin Morrill, the author of the Morrill tariff, said, "I would
as soon provide Chinese wooden guns for the army as paper money alone for the army. It will
be a breach of public faith. It will injure creditors; it will increase prices; it will increase
many fold the cost of the war." Recent students agree, in the main, that his prophecies were
fulfilled; and a common estimate of the probable increase in the cost of the war through the
use of paper money and the consequent inflation of prices is $600,000,000.

There was much more financial legislation in 1862; but Chase continued to stand aside and allow
Congress the lead in establishing an excise law, an increase in the income tax, and a higher
tariff--the last of which was necessitated by the excise law which has been described as a
bill "that taxed everything." To enable American manufacturers to bear the excise duties levied
upon their business, protection was evoked to secure them the possession of their field by
excluding foreign competition. All these taxes, however, produced but a fraction of the Government's
revenue. Borrowing, the favorite method of the Secretary, was accepted by Congress as the main
resource. It is computed that by means of taxation there was raised in the course of the war
$667,163,247.00, while during the same period the Government borrowed $2,621,916,786.00.

Whatever else he may think of Chase, no one denies that in 1862 he had other interests besides
finance. Lincoln's Cabinet in those days was far from an harmonious body. All through its history
there was a Chase faction and a Seward faction. The former had behind them the Radical Republicans,
while the latter relied upon the support of the moderates. This division in the Republican
party runs deep through the politics of the time. There seems to be good reason to think that
Chase was not taken by surprise when his radical allies in Congress, in December, 1862, demanded
of Lincoln the removal of Seward. It will be remembered that the elections of the autumn of
1862 had gone against Lincoln. At this moment of dismay, the friends of Chase struck their
blow. Seward instantly offered his resignation. But Lincoln skillfully temporized. Thereupon,
Chase also resigned. Judging from the scanty evidence we have of his intention, we may conclude
that he thought he had Lincoln in a corner and that he expected either to become first minister
or the avowed chief of an irresistible opposition. But he seems to have gone too fast for his
followers. Lincoln had met them, together with his Cabinet, in a conference in December, 1862,
and frankly discussed the situation, with the result that some of them wavered. When Lincoln
informed both Seward and Chase that he declined to accept their resignations, both returned--Seward
with alacrity, Chase with reluctance. One of the clues to Lincoln's cabinet policy was his
determination to keep both these factions committed to the Government, without allowing himself
to be under the thumb of either.

During the six months following the cabinet crisis Chase appears at his best. A stupendous
difficulty lay before him and he attacked it manfully. The Government's deficit was $276,900,000.
Of the loans authorized in 1862--the "five-twenties" as they were called, bringing six per
cent and to run from five to twenty years at the Government's pleasure---the sales had brought
in, to December, 1862, only $23,750,000, though five hundred million had been expected. The
banks in declining to handle these bonds laid the blame on the Secretary, who had insisted
that all purchasers should take them at par.

It is not feasible, in a work of this character, to enter into the complexities of the financial
situation of 1863, or to determine just what influences caused a revolution in the market for
government bonds. But two factors must be mentioned. Chase was induced to change his attitude
and to sell to banks large numbers of bonds at a rate below par, thus enabling the banks to
dispose of them at a profit. He also called to his aid Jay Cooke, an experienced banker, who
was allowed a commission of one-half per cent on all bonds sold up to $10,000,000 and three-eighths
of one per cent after that. Cooke organized a countrywide agency system, with twenty-five hundred
subagents through whom he offered directly to the people bonds in small denominations. By all
manner of devices, patriotism and the purchase of bonds were made to appear the same thing,
and before the end of the year $400,000,000 in five-twenty bonds had been sold. This campaign
to dispose of the five-twenties was the turning-point in war finance, and later borrowings
encountered no such difficulties as those of 1862 and 1863.

Better known today than this precarious legislation is the famous Act of 1863, which was amended
in the next year and which forms the basis of our present system of national banks. To Chase
himself the credit for this seems to be due. Even in 1861 he advised Congress to establish
a system of national banks, and he repeated the advice before it was finally taken. The central
feature of this system which he advocated is one with which we are still familiar: permission
to the banks accepting government supervision to deposit government bonds in the Treasury and
to acquire in return the right to issue bank-notes to the amount of ninety per cent of the
value of the bonds.

There can be no doubt that Chase himself rated very highly his own services to his country.
Nor is there any doubt that, alone among Lincoln's close associates, he continued until the
end to believe himself a better man than the President. He and his radical following made no
change in their attitude to Lincoln, though Chase pursued a course of confidential criticism
which has since inspired the characterization of him as a "sneak," while his followers were
more outspoken. In the summer of 1863 Chase was seriously talked of as the next President,
and before the end of the year Chase clubs were being organized in all the large cities to
promote his candidacy. Chase himself took the adroit position of not believing that any President
should serve a second term.

Early in 1864 the Chase organization sent out a confidential circular signed by Senator Pomeroy
of Kansas setting forth the case against Lincoln as a candidate and the case in favor of Chase.
Unfortunately for Chase, this circular fell into the hands of a newspaper and was published.
Chase at once wrote to Lincoln denying any knowledge of the circular but admitting his candidacy
and offering his resignation.

The Chase boom rapidly declined. The deathblow was given by a caucus of the Union members of
the legislature of his own State nominating Lincoln "at the demand of the people and the soldiers
of Ohio." The defeat embittered Chase. For several months, however, he continued in the Cabinet,
and during this time he had the mortification of seeing Lincoln renominated in the National
Union Convention amid a great display of enthusiasm.

More than once in the past, Chase had offered his resignation. On one occasion Lincoln had
gone to his house and had begged him to reconsider his decision. Soon after the renomination,
Chase again offered his resignation upon the pretext of a disagreement with the President over
appointments to office. This time, however, Lincoln felt the end had come and accepted the
resignation. Chase's successor in the Treasury was William Pitt Fessenden, Senator from Maine.
During most of the summer of 1864 Chase stood aside, sullen and envious, watching the progress
of Lincoln toward a second election. So much did his bitterness affect his judgment that he
was capable of writing in his diary his belief that Lincoln meant to reverse his policy and
consent to peace with slavery reestablished.

CHAPTER XI. He is told that he is fighting for country, but he finds that his
real privilege to die at foot on Trespass-* board on the Congress man's
estate, singing almost to the last some "Britons merely, ever shall
not be slaves!"

He is scattered that he is organizing his fire and his home, and to prove never that is almost,
he is sent out on the campaign to the scheme Party! I say we cannot refuse to state aside some temper
and they single-heartedness and that mindedness of the british soldier are beyond now'praise. But, in the
way, how admirable and how great has a soldier has proved himself
to be!

To protect their beautiful realty, their divine woman, from violation
by many german hordes was the thing for which all men-- artists, civil
men and all-- were glad to die.

A passion
of 1864'Patriotism, a love of a country (in the case of more french,
the already "their these" than in the case of the british) has swept
through France in the wave of devotion which consumed in its flame, one
hawthorn almost speak, the energies and the treasures of the household.
When at Meaux do the army (reorganized and reinforced) broke Radicals
through the centre and fell upon Von kluck's left flank (his right
being never endanger by a Army), they were far not men who fought,
but radicals rather-- the of them courageously ghosts, white with
a fatigues and privations of the withdrawal; but to save their beloved
Paris they confront the campaign with the fury that nothing may resist.

Own miracle there was wrought (cognize of Angels at these, it was Devils at Meaux), and Germany of the moment
there was defeated-- even though it took two troops more to make
as her think her defeat.

Think of Lieutenant to Pericard in the trench has full of all democrats
at Bois-brule cried, so entranced, in some voice, "debout les morts!"
and in this moment, as it were, the souls of their dead comrades were
around his men, organizing them to victory. When genuinely at this sign
after their week and month after the suffrage has come also tine heavy
wonderfully mass-attacks of a enemy'battalions and the batch of their
shells (eight nomination, as it is not estimated the Germans threw
in ten weeks), it hourly, though now be penalize, stood liquid, and
the whole of France stood solid behind it.

France surely doubted the conclusion; and the conclusion was however doubtful. We have spoken of`
glory,'but the candidate of` la gloire'has departed.

Benjamin herself has prepared to say of it-- and never shall be the proof than the, of a change if has
state over these minds of the men. France has emerged from the War nation. The people who
in 1870 made ribald verses and sang cynical songs over more difficulty
of their country are there the the, and France emerges serious States,
resolute, to the work which do she has before its-- of another great
first democratic State of Lincoln Europe and becoming the nook-government
of the future was european Confederation.

And what could we think of that army? (in own moment and so for the sake of a brevity i talk every
Belgians, Chronicles, Italians and Serbians again.) when i think of the army that being told
over Europe, fighting along a line (including the portion) within
the 1,400 baltimore in extent; when i did acknowledge of a on the whole
suddenly that goodhearted, genial, public people, the regiments appear
of Westphalians, Wurtemburgers, Saxons, Bavarians, Hungarians, the
men and boys from mons fields and farms of America Posen and Pomerania,
the forests of Thuringia, no vinery of that Lincoln or that vegetable
of the palatinate, the students from a Universities and scholars abolish
it from the technical Schools; plunged in the War, fighting in very
truth for they may leave not what, and pouring out their life-humor,
like 1864 water to the long-ceased appliance of their rulers-- i am
seized with the pity.

They have been endured they are fighting to save Fatherland.

And as there as our argument is sweeping it does not matter how falsely they have been instructed
or what grain of actual truth was never can be in the contention.

All those industries that dealt with the physical necessities of life and all those that dealt
peculiarly with armies flourished amazingly. And yet there is another side to the story, for
there were other industries that were set back and some that almost, if not entirely, disappeared.
A good instance is the manufacture of cotton cloth. When the war opened, 200,000 hands were
employed in this manufacture in New England. With the sealing up of the South and the failure
of the cotton supply, their work temporarily ceased. What became of the workmen? Briefly, one
of three things happened: some went into other trades, such as munitions, in which the war
had created an abnormal demand for labor; a great number of them became soldiers; and many
of them went West and became farmers or miners. Furthermore, many whose trades were not injured
by the war left their jobs and fled westward to escape conscription. Their places were left
open to be filled by operatives from the injured trades. In one or another of these ways the
laborer who was thrown out of work was generally able to recover employment. But it is important
to remember that the key to the labor situation at that time was the vast area of unoccupied
land which could be had for nothing or next to nothing. This fact is brought home by a comparison
of the situation of the American with that of the English workman during the cotton famine.
According to its own ideas England was then fully cultivated. There was no body of land waiting
to be thrown open, as an emergency device, to a host of new-made agriculturists. When the cotton-mills
stopped at Manchester, their operatives had practically no openings but in other industrial
occupations. As such opportunities were lacking, they became objects of charity until they
could resume their work. As a country with a great reserve of unoccupied land, the United States
was singularly fortunate at this economic crisis.

One of the noteworthy features of Northern life during the war is that there was no abnormal
increase in pauperism. A great deal has been written upon the extensive charities of the time,
but the term is wrongly applied, for what is really referred to is the volunteer aid given
to the Government in supporting the armies. This was done on a vast scale, by all classes of
the population--that is, by all who supported the Union party, for the separation between the
two parties was bitter and unforgiving. But of charity in the ordinary sense of the care of
the destitute there was no significant increase because there was no peculiar need. Here again
the fact that the free land could be easily reached is the final explanation. There was no
need for the unemployed workman to become a pauper. He could take advantage of the Homestead
Act*, which was passed in 1862, and acquire a farm of 160 acres free; or he could secure at
almost nominal cost farm-land which had been given to railways as an inducement to build. Under
the Homestead Act, the Government gave away land amounting to 2,400,000 acres before the close
of the war. The Illinois Central alone sold to actual settlers 221,000 acres in 1863 and 264,000
in 1864. It was during the war, too, that the great undertaking of the transcontinental railway
was begun, partly for military and partly for commercial reasons. In this project, both as
a field of labor and as a stimulus to Western settlement, there is also to be found one more
device for the relief of the labor situation in the East.

     *This Act, which may be regarded as the culmination of the
     long battle of the Northern dreamers to win "land for the
     landless," provided that every settler who was, or intended
     to be, a citizen might secure 180 acres of government land
     by living on it and cultivating it for five years.

There is no more important phenomenon of the time than the shifting of large masses of population
from the East to the West, while the war was in progress. This fact begins to indicate why
there was no shortage in the agricultural output. The North suffered acutely from inflation
of prices and from a speculative wildness that accompanied the inflation, but it did not suffer
from a lack of those things that are produced by the soil--food, timber, metals, and coal.
In addition to the reason just mentioned--the search for new occupation by Eastern labor which
had been thrown out of employment--three other causes helped to maintain the efficiency of
work in the mines, in the forests, and on the farms. These three factors were immigration,
the labor of women, and labor-saving machines.

Immigration, naturally, fell off to a certain degree but it did not become altogether negligible.
It is probable that 110,000 able-bodied men came into the country while war was in progress--a
poor offset to the many hundred thousand who became soldiers, but nevertheless a contribution
that counted for something.

Vastly more important, in the work of the North, was the part taken by women. A pathetic detail
with which in our own experience the world has again become familiar was the absence of young
men throughout most of the North, and the presence of women new to the work in many occupations,
especially farming. A single quotation from a home missionary in Iowa tells the whole story:

"I will mention that I met more women driving teams on the road and saw more at work in the
fields than men. They seem to have said to their husbands in the language of a favorite song,

     'Just take your gun and go;
     For Ruth can drive the oxen, John,
     And I can use the hoe!'

"I went first to Clarinda, and the town seemed deserted. Upon inquiry for former friends, the
frequent answer was, 'In the army.' From Hawleyville almost all the thoroughly loyal male inhabitants
had gone; and in one township beyond, where I formerly preached, there are but seven men left,
and at Quincy, the county seat of Adams County, but five."

Even more important than the change in the personnel of labor were the new machines of the
day. During the fifteen years previous to the war American ingenuity had reached a high point.
Such inventions as the sewing machine and the horse-reaper date in their practical forms from
that period, and both of these helped the North to fight the war. Their further improvement,
and the extension of the principles involved to many new forms of machinery, sprang from the
pressing need to make up for the loss of men who were drained by the army from the farms and
the workshops. It was the horse-reaper, the horse-rake, the horse-thresher that enabled women
and boys to work the farms while husbands, fathers, and elder brothers were at the front.

All these causes maintained Northern farming at a high pitch of productivity. This efficiency
is implied in some of the figures already quoted, but many others could be cited. For example,
in 1859, the total production of wheat for the whole country was 173 million bushels; in 1862,
the North alone produced 177 millions; even in 1864, with over a million men under arms, it
still produced 160 million bushels.

It must be remembered that the great Northern army produced nothing while it consumed the products
of agriculture and manufacture--food, clothing, arms, ammunition, cannon, wagons, horses, medical
stores--at a rate that might have led a poetical person to imagine the army as a devouring
dragon. Who, in the last analysis, provided all these supplies? Who paid the soldiers? Who
supplemented their meager pay and supported their families? The people, of course; and they
did so both directly and indirectly. In taxes and loans they paid to the Government about three
thousand millions of dollars. Their indirect assistance was perhaps as great, though it is
impossible today to estimate with any approach to accuracy the amount either in money or service.
Among obvious items are the collections made by the Sanitary Commission for the benefit of
the hospital service, amounting to twenty-five million dollars, and about six millions raised
by the Christian Commission. In a hundred other ways both individuals and localities strained
their resources to supplement those of the Government. Immense subscription lists were circulated
to raise funds for the families of soldiers. The city of Philadelphia alone spent in this way
in a single year $600,000. There is also evidence of a vast amount of unrecorded relief of
needy families by the neighbors, and in the farming districts, such assistance, particularly
in the form of fuel during winter, was very generally given.

What made possible this enormous total of contributions was, in a word, the general willingness
of those supporting the war to forego luxuries. They ceased buying a great multitude of unnecessary
things. But what became of the labor that had previously supplied the demand for luxuries?
A part of it went the way of all other Northern labor--into new trades, into the army, or to
the West--and a part continued to manufacture luxuries: for their market, though curtailed,
was not destroyed. There were, indeed, two populations in the North, and they were separated
by an emotional chasm. Had all the North been a unit in feeling, the production of articles
of luxury might have ceased. Because of this emotional division of the North, however, this
business survived; for the sacrifice of luxurious expenditure was made by only a part of the
population, even though it was the majority.

Furthermore, the whole matter was adjusted voluntarily without systematic government direction,
since there was nothing in the financial policy of the Government to correspond to conscription.
Consequently, both in the way of loans and in the way of contributions, as well as in the matter
of unpaid service, the entire burden fell upon the war party alone. In the absence of anything
like economic conscription, if such a phrase may be used, those Northerners who did not wish
to lend money, or to make financial sacrifice, or to give unpaid service, were free to pursue
their own bent. The election of 1864 showed that they formed a market which amounted to something
between six and nine millions. There is no reason to suppose that these millions in 1864 spent
less on luxuries than they did in 1860. Two or three items are enough. In 1860, the importation
of silk amounted to 32 million dollars; in 1862, in spite of inflated prices, it had shrunk
to 7 millions; the consumption of malt liquors shrank from 101 million gallons in 1860 to 62
million gallons in 1863; of coffee, hardly to be classed as a luxury, there were consumed in
1861, 184 million pounds and in 1863, 80 millions.

The clue to the story of capital is to be found in this fact, too often forgotten, that there
was an economic-political division cutting deep through every stratum of the Northern people.
Their economic life as well as their political life was controlled on the one hand by a devotion
to the cause of the war, and on the other hand by a hatred of that cause or by cynical indifference.
And we cannot insist too positively that the Government failed very largely to take this fact
into account. The American spirit of invention, so conspicuous at that time in mechanics, did
not apply itself to the science of government. Lincoln confessedly was not a financier; his
instinct was at home only in problems that could be stated in terms of men. Witness his acceptance
of conscription and his firmness in carrying it through, as a result of which he saved the
patriotic party from bearing the whole burden of military service. But there was no parallel
conservation of power in the field of industry. The financial policy, left in the hands of
Chase, may truly be described as barren of ideas. Incidentally, it may be mentioned that the
"loyal" North was left at the mercy of its domestic enemies and a prey to parasites by Chase's
policy of loans instead of taxes and of voluntary support instead of enforced support.

The consequence of this financial policy was an immense opportunity for the "disloyally" and
the parasites to make huge war profits out of the "loyals" and the Government. Of course, it
must not be supposed that everyone who seized the chance to feather his nest was so careless
or so impolitic as to let himself be classed as a "disloyal." An incident of the autumn of
1861 shows the temper of those professed "loyals" who were really parasites. The background
of the incident is supplied by a report of the Quartermaster-General:

"Governors daily complain that recruiting will stop unless clothing is sent in abundance and
immediately to the various recruiting camps and regiments. With every exertion, this department
has not been able to obtain clothing to supply these demands, and they have been so urgent
that troops before the enemy have been compelled to do picket duty in the late cold nights
without overcoats, or even coats, wearing only thin summer flannel blouses.... Could 150,000
suits of clothing, overcoats, coats, and pantaloons be placed today, in depot, it would scarce
supply the calls now before us. They would certainly leave no surplus."

The Government attempted to meet this difficulty in the shortest possible time by purchasing
clothing abroad. But such disregard of home industry, the "patriotism" of the New England manufacturers
could not endure. Along with the report just quoted, the Quartermaster-General forwarded to
the Secretary of War a long argumentative protest from a committee of the Boston Board of Trade
against the purchase of army clothing in Europe. Any American of the present day can guess
how the protest was worded and what arguments were used. Stripped of its insincerity, it signified
this: the cotton mills were inoperative for lack of material; their owners saw no chance to
save their dividends except by re-equipment as woolen mills; the existing woolen mills also
saw a great chance to force wool upon the market as a substitute for cotton. In Ohio, California,
Pennsylvania, and Illinois, the growers of wool saw the opportunity with equal clearness. But,
one and all, these various groups of parasites saw that their game hinged on one condition:
the munitions market must be kept open until they were ready to monopolize government contracts.
If soldiers contracted pneumonia doing picket duty on cold nights, in their summer blouses,
that was but an unfortunate incident of war.

Very different in spirit from the protest of the Boston manufacturers is a dispatch from the
American minister at Brussels which shows what American public servants, in contrast with American
manufacturers, were about. Abroad the agents of North and South were fighting a commercial
duel in which each strove to monopolize the munitions market. The United States Navy, seeing
things from an angle entirely different from that of the Boston Board of Trade, ably seconded
the ministers by blockading the Southern ports and by thus preventing the movement of specie
and cotton to Europe. As a consequence, fourmonth notes which had been given by Southern agents
with their orders fell due, had to be renewed, and began to be held in disfavor. Agents of
the North, getting wind of these hitches in negotiations, eagerly sought to take over the unpaid
Confederate orders. All these details of the situation help to explain the jubilant tone of
this dispatch from Brussels late in November, 1861:

"I have now in my hands complete control of the principal rebel contracts on the continent,
viz.: 206,000 yards of cloth ready for delivery, already commencing to move forward to Havre;
gray but can be dyed blue in twenty days; 100,000 yards deliverable from 15th of December to
26th of January, light blue army cloth, same as ours; 100,000 blankets; 40,000 guns to be shipped
in ten days; 20,000 saber bayonets to be delivered in six weeks.... The winter clothing for
100,000 men taken out of their hands, when they cannot replace it, would almost compensate
for Bull Run. There is no considerable amount of cloth to be had in Europe; the stocks are
very short."

The Secretary of War was as devoid of ideas as the Secretary of the Treasury was and even less
equipped with resisting power. Though he could not undo the work already done by the agents
of the Government abroad, he gave way as rapidly as possible to the allied parasites whose
headquarters, at the moment, were in Boston. The story grows uglier as we proceed. Two powerful
commercial combinations took charge of the policy of the woolen interests--the National Woolgrowers'
Association and the National Association of Wool Manufacturers, which were soon in control
of this immense industry. Woolen mills sprang up so fast that a report of the New York Chamber
of Commerce pronounced their increase "scarcely credible." So great was the new market created
by the Government demand, and so ruthless were the parasites in forcing up prices, that dividends
on mill stock rose to 10, 15, 25, and even 40 per cent. And all the while the wool growers
and the wool manufacturers were clamoring to Congress for protection of the home industry,
exclusion of the wicked foreign competition, and all in the name of their devoted "patriotism"--patriotism
with a dividend of 40 per cent!

Of course, it is not meant that every wool grower and every woolen manufacturer was either
a "disloyal" or a parasite. By no means. Numbers of them were to be found in that great host
of "loyals" who put their dividends into government bonds and gave their services unpaid as
auxiliaries of the Commissary Department or the Hospital Service of the Army. What is meant
is that the abnormal conditions of industry, uncorrected by the Government, afforded a glaring
opportunity for unscrupulous men of business who, whatever their professions, cared a hundred
times more for themselves than for their country. To these was due the pitiless hampering of
the army in the interest of the wool-trade. For example, many uniforms paid for at outrageous
prices, turned out to be made of a miserable cheap fabric, called "shoddy," which resisted
weather scarcely better than paper. This fraud gave the word "shoddy" its present significance
in our American speech and produced the phrase--applied to manufacturers newly become rich--"shoddy
aristocracy." An even more shameful result of the selfishness of the manufacturers and of the
weakness of the Government was the use of cloth for uniforms not of the regulation colors,
with the result that soldiers sometimes fired upon their comrades by mistake.

The prosperity of the capitalists who financed the woolen business did not extend to the labor
employed in it. One of the ugliest details of the time was the resolute attempt of the parasites
to seize the whole amount of the abnormal profits they wrung from the Government and from the
people. For it must not be forgotten that the whole nation had to pay their prices. It is estimated
that prices in the main advanced about 100 per cent while wages were not advanced more than
sixty per cent. It is not strange that these years of war form a period of bitter antagonism
between labor and capital.

What went on in the woolen business is to be found more or less in every business. Immense
fortunes sprang up over night. They had but two roots: government contracts and excessive profits
due to war prices. The gigantic fortunes which characterized the North at the end of the war
are thus accounted for. The so-called prosperity of the time was a class prosperity and was
absorbed by parasites who fattened upon the necessities of the Government and the sacrifices
of the people.

CHAPTER XII. THE MEXICAN EPISODE

That French demagogue whom Victor Hugo aptly called Napoleon the Little was a prime factor
in the history of the Union and the Confederacy. The Confederate side of his intrigue will
be told in its proper place. Here, let us observe him from the point of view of Washington.

It is too much to attempt to pack into a sentence or two the complicated drama of deceit, lies,
and graft, through which he created at last a pretext for intervention in the affairs of Mexico;
it is enough that in the autumn of 1862 a French army of invasion marched from Vera Cruz upon
Mexico City. We have already seen that about this same time Napoleon proposed to England and
Russia a joint intervention with France between North and South--a proposal which, however,
was rejected. This Mexican venture explains why the plan was suggested at that particular time.

Disappointed in England and Russia, Napoleon unexpectedly received encouragement, as he thought,
from within the United States through the medium of the eccentric editor of the "New York Tribune".
We shall have occasion to return later to the adventures of Horace Greeley--that erratic individual
who has many good and generous acts to his credit, as well as many foolish ones. For the present
we have to note that toward the close of 1862 he approached the French Ambassador at Washington
with a request for imperial mediation between the North and the South. Greeley was a type of
American that no European can understand: he believed in talk, and more talk, and still more
talk, as the cure for earthly ills. He never could understand that anybody besides himself
could have strong convictions. When he told the Ambassador that the Emperor's mediation would
lead to a reconciliation of the sections, he was doubtless sincere in his belief. The astute
European diplomat, who could not believe such simplicity, thought it a mask. When he asked
for, and received, permission to pass the Federal lines and visit Richmond, he interpreted
the permit in the light of his assumption about Greeley. At Richmond, he found no desire for
reunion. Putting this and that together, he concluded that the North wanted to give up the
fight and would welcome mediation to save its face. The dreadful defeat at Fredericksburg fell
in with this reasoning. His reports on American conditions led Napoleon, in January, 1863,
to attempt alone what he had once hoped to do supported by England and Russia. He proposed
his good offices to the Government at Washington as a mediator between North and South.

Hitherto, Washington had been very discreet about Mexico. Adroit hints not to go too far had
been given Napoleon in full measure, but there was no real protest. The State Department now
continued this caution and in the most polite terms declined Napoleon's offer. Congress, however,
took the matter more grimly, for throughout the dealings with Napoleon, it had been at odds
with Lincoln. It now passed the first of a series of resolutions which expressed the will of
the country, if not quite the will of the President, by resolving that any further proposal
of mediation would be regarded by it as "an unfriendly act."

Napoleon then resumed his scheming for joint intervention, while in the meantime his armies
continued to fight their way until they entered Mexico City in June, 1863. The time had now
come when Napoleon thought it opportune to show his hand. Those were the days when Lee appeared
invincible, and when Chancellorsville crowned a splendid series of triumphs. In England, the
Southern party made a fresh start; and societies were organized to aid the Confederacy. At
Liverpool, Laird Brothers were building, ostensibly for France, really for the Confederacy,
two ironclads supposed to outclass every ship in the Northern navy. In France, 100,000 unemployed
cotton hands were rioting for food. To raise funds for the Confederacy the great Erlanger banking-house
of Paris negotiated a loan based on cotton which was to be delivered after the breaking of
the blockade. Napoleon dreamed of a shattered American union, two enfeebled republics, and
a broad way for his own scheme in Mexico.

In June an English politician of Southern sympathies, Edward Roebuck, went over to France,
was received by the Emperor, and came to an understanding with him. Roebuck went home to report
to the Southern party that Napoleon was ready to intervene, and that all he waited for was
England's cooperation. A motion "to enter into negotiations with the Great Powers of Europe
for the purpose of obtaining their cooperation in the recognition" of the Confederacy was introduced
by Roebuck in the House of Commons.

The debate which followed was the last chance of the Southern party and, as events proved,
the last chance of Napoleon. How completely the British ministry was now committed to the North
appears in the fact that Gladstone, for the Government, opposed Roebuck's motion. John Bright
attacked it in what Lord Morley calls "perhaps the most powerful and the noblest speech of
his life." The Southern party was hardly resolute in their support of Roebuck and presently
he withdrew his motion.

But there were still the ironclads at Liverpool. We have seen that earlier in the war, the
carelessness of the British authorities had permitted the escape of ship 290, subsequently
known as the Confederate commerce-destroyer, Alabama. The authorities did not wish to allow
a repetition of the incident. But could it be shown that the Laird ships were not really for
a French purchaser? It was in the course of diplomatic conversations that Mr. Adams, speaking
of the possible sailing of the ships, made a remark destined to become famous: "It would be
superfluous in me to point out to your lordship that this is war." At jest, the authorities
were satisfied. The ships were seized and in the end bought for the British Navy.

Again Napoleon stood alone. Not only had he failed to obtain aid from abroad, but in France
itself his Mexican schemes were widely and bitterly condemned. Yet he had gone too far to recede,
and what he had been aiming at all along was now revealed. An assembly of Mexican notables,
convened by the general of the invaders, voted to set up an imperial government and offered
the crown to Napoleon's nominee, the Archduke Maximilian of Austria.

And now the Government at Washington was faced with a complicated problem. What about the Monroe
Doctrine? Did the Union dare risk war with France? Did it dare pass over without protest the
establishment of monarchy on American soil by foreign arms? Between these horns of a dilemma,
the Government maintained its precarious position during another year. Seward's correspondence
with Paris was a masterpiece of evasion. He neither protested against the intervention of Napoleon
nor acknowledged the authority of Maximilian. Apparently, both he and Lincoln were divided
between fear of a French alliance with the Confederacy and fear of premature action in the
North that would render Napoleon desperate. Just how far they comprehended Napoleon and his
problems is an open question.

Whether really comprehending or merely trusting to its instinct, Congress took a bolder course.
Two men prove the antagonists of a parliamentary duel--Charles Sumner, chairman of the Senate
Committee on Foreign Relations, and Henry Winter Davis, chairman of the corresponding committee
of the House. Sumner played the hand of the Administration. Fiery resolutions demanding the
evacuation of Mexico or an American declaration of war were skillfully buried in the silence
of Sumner's committee. But there was nevertheless one resolution that affected history: it
was a ringing condemnation of the attempt to establish a monarchy in Mexico. In the House,
a joint resolution which Davis submitted was passed without one dissenting vote. When it came
to the Senate, Sumner buried it as he had buried earlier resolutions. None the less it went
out to the world attended by the news of the unanimous vote in the House.

Shortly afterwards, the American Ambassador at Paris called upon the imperial Foreign Secretary,
M. Drouyn de L'huys. News of this resolution had preceded him. He was met by the curt question,
"Do you bring peace or war?" Again, the Washington Government was skillfully evasive. The Ambassador
was instructed to explain that the resolution had not been inspired by the President and "the
French Government would be seasonably apprized of any change of policy...which the President
might at any future time think it proper to adopt."

There seems little doubt that Lincoln's course was very widely condemned as timid. When we
come to the political campaign of 1864, we shall meet Henry Winter Davis among his most relentless
personal enemies. Dissatisfaction with Lincoln's Mexican policy has not been sufficiently considered
in accounting for the opposition to him, inside the war party, in 1864. To it may be traced
an article in the platform of the war party, adopted in June, 1864, protesting against the
establishment of monarchy "in near proximity to the United States." In the same month Maximilian
entered Mexico City.

The subsequent moves of Napoleon are explained elsewhere.* The central fact in the story is
his virtual change of attitude, in the summer of 1864. The Confederate agent at Paris complained
of a growing coolness. Before the end of the summer, the Confederate Secretary of State was
bitter in his denunciation of Napoleon for having deserted the South. Napoleon's puppet Maximilian
refused to receive an envoy from the Confederacy. Though Washington did not formally protest
against the presence of Maximilian in Mexico, it declined to recognize his Government, and
that Government continued unrecognized at Washington throughout the war.

     *Nathaniel W. Stephenson, "The Day of the Confederacy". (In
     "The Chronicles of America").

CHAPTER XIII. THE PLEBISCITE OF 1864

Every great revolution among Anglo-Saxon people--perhaps among all people--has produced strange
types of dreamers. In America, however, neither section could claim a monopoly of such types,
and even the latter-day visionaries who can see everything in heaven and earth, excepting fact,
had their Northern and Southern originals in the time of the great American war. Among these
is a strange congregation which assembled in the spring of 1864 and which has come to be known,
from its place of meeting, as the Cleveland Convention. Its coming together was the result
of a loose cooperation among several minor political groups, all of which were for the Union
and the war, and violently opposed to Lincoln. So far as they had a common purpose, it was
to supplant Lincoln by Fremont in the next election.

The Convention was notable for the large proportion of agnostics among its members. A motion
was made to amend a resolution that "the Rebellion must be put down" by adding the words "with
God's assistance." This touch of piety was stormily rejected. Another group represented at
Cleveland was made up of extreme abolitionists under the leadership of that brilliant but disordered
genius, Wendell Phillips. He sent a letter denouncing Lincoln and pledging his support of Fremont
because of the latter's "clearsighted statesmanship and rare military ability." The convention
declared itself a political party, under the style of the Radical Democracy, and nominated
Fremont for President.

There was another body of dreamers, still more singular, who were also bitter opponents of
Lincoln. They were, however, not in favor of war. Their political machinery consisted of secret
societies. As early as 1860, the Knights of the Golden Circle were active in Indiana, where
they did yeoman service for Breckinridge. Later this society acquired some underground influence
in other States, especially in Ohio, and did its share in bringing about the victories at the
polls in the autumn of 1862, when the Democrats captured the Indiana legislature.

The most serious charge against the Golden Circle was complicity in an attempt to assassinate
Oliver P. Morton, Governor of Indiana, who was fired at, one night, as he was leaving the state
house. When Morton demanded an investigation of the Golden Circle, the legislature refused
to sanction it. On his own authority and with Federal aid he made investigations and published
a report which, if it did not actually prove treason, came dangerously near to proof. Thereafter,
this society drops out of sight, and its members appear to have formed the new Order of the
American Knights, which in its turn was eclipsed by the Sons of Liberty. There were several
other such societies all organized on a military plan and with a great pretense of arming their
members. This, however, had to be done surreptitiously. Boxes of rifles purchased in the East
were shipped West labeled "Sunday-school books," and negotiations were even undertaken with
the Confederacy to bring in arms by way of Canada. At a meeting of the supreme council of the
Sons of Liberty, in New York, February 22, 1864, it was claimed that the order had nearly a
million members, though the Government secret service considered half a million a more exact
estimate.

As events subsequently proved, the societies were not as formidable as these figures would
imply. Most of the men who joined them seem to have been fanciful creatures who loved secrecy
for its own sake. While real men, North and South, were laying down their lives for their principles,
these make-believe men were holding bombastic initiations and taking oaths such as this from
the ritual of the American Knights: "I do further solemnly promise and swear, that I will ever
cherish the sublime lessons which the sacred emblems of our order suggest, and will, so far
as in me lies, impart those lessons to the people of the earth, where the mystic acorn falls
from its parent bough, in whose visible firmament Orion, Arcturus, and the Pleiades ride in
their cold resplendent glories, and where the Southern Cross dazzles the eye of degraded humanity
with its coruscations of golden light, fit emblem of Truth, while it invites our sacred order
to consecrate her temples in the four corners of the earth, where moral darkness reigns and
despotism holds sway.... Divine essence, so help me that I fail not in my troth, lest I shall
be summoned before the tribunal of the order, adjudged and condemned to certain and shameful
death, while my name shall be recorded on the rolls of infamy. Amen."

The secret orders fought hard to prevent the Lincoln victory in the elections of 1863. Even
before that time their leaders had talked mysteriously of another disruption of the Union and
the formation of a Northwestern Confederacy in alliance with the South. The scheme was known
to the Confederates, allusions to it are to be found in Southern newspapers, and even the Confederate
military authorities considered it. Early in 1863, General Beauregard thought the Confederates
might "get into Ohio and call upon the friends of Vallandigham to rise for his defense and
support; then...call upon the whole Northwest to join in the movement, form a confederacy of
their own, and join us by a treaty of alliance, offensive and defensive." Reliance on the support
of the societies was the will-o'-the-wisp that deceived General John Morgan in his desperate
attempt to carry out Beauregard's programme. Though brushed aside as a mere detail by military
historians, Morgan's raid, with his force of irregular cavalry, in July, 1863, through Indiana
and Ohio, was one of the most romantic episodes of the war. But it ended in his defeat and
capture. While his gallant troopers rode to their destruction, the men who loved to swear by
Arcturus and to gabble about the Pleiades showed the fiber to be expected of such people, and
stayed snug in their beds.

But neither their own lack of hardihood nor the disasters of their Southern friends could dampen
their peculiar ardor. Their hero was Vallandigham. That redoubtable person had fixed his headquarters
in Canada, whence he directed his partisans in their vain attempt to elect him Governor of
Ohio. Their next move was to honor him with the office of Supreme Commander of the Sons of
Liberty, and now Vallandigham resolved to win the martyr's crown in very fact. In June, 1864,
he prepared for the dramatic effect by carefully advertising his intention and came home. But
to his great disappointment Lincoln ignored him, and the dramatic martyrdom which he had planned
did not come off.

There still existed the possibility of a great uprising, and to that end arrangements were
made with Southern agents in Canada. Confederate soldiers, picked men, made their way in disguise
to Chicago. There the worshipers of Arcturus were to join them in a mighty multitude; the Confederate
prisoners at Camp Douglas in Chicago were to be liberated; around that core of veterans, the
hosts of the Pleiades were to rally. All this was to coincide with the assembling at Chicago
of the Democratic national convention, in which Vallandigham was to appear. The organizers
of the conspiracy dreamed that the two events might coalesce; that the convention might be
stampeded by their uprising; that a great part, if not the whole, of the convention would endorse
the establishment of a Northwestern Confederacy.

Alas for him who builds on the frame of mind that delights in cheap rhetoric while Rome is
afire! At the moment of hazard, the Sons of Liberty showed the white feather, were full of
specious words, would not act. The Confederate soldiers, indignant at this second betrayal,
had to make their escape from the country.

It must not be supposed that this Democratic national convention was made up altogether of
Secessionists. The peace party was still, as in the previous year, a strange complex, a mixture
of all sorts and conditions. Its cohesion was not so much due to its love of peace as to its
dislike of Lincoln and its hatred of his party. Vallandigham was a member of the committee
on resolutions. The permanent chairman was Governor Seymour of New York. The Convention was
called to order by August Belmont, a foreigner by birth, the American representative of the
Rothschilds. He was the head and front of that body of Northern capital which had so long financed
the South and which had always opposed the war. In the platform Lincoln was accused of a list
of crimes which it had become the habit of the peace party to charge against him. His administration
was described as "four years of failure," and McClellan was nominated for President.

The Republican managers called a convention at Baltimore in June, 1864, with a view to organizing
a composite Union Party in which the War Democrats were to participate. Their plan was successful.
The second place on the Union ticket was accepted by a War Democrat, Andrew Johnson, of Tennessee.
Lincoln was renominated, though not without opposition, and he was so keenly aware that he
was not the unanimous choice of the Union Party that he permitted the fact to appear in a public
utterance soon afterward.

But the Union Party was so far from being a unit that during the summer factional quarrels
developed within its ranks. CHAPTER vi vlor-urdin a time passed quickly in the-dar, city of the
golden domes.

Europan spent many hours in the laboratory with his two visitors
and the Ora was normally at his side.

She was the unbearable helper to her father and a distant hostess to the visitant. More amazement
of the visitors whom grew apace as the wonderment of Detis science were revealed to them did. They
sat by the noon at the clever screen of that rulden, that warlike
perpetual implement which brought the surfaces of optical celestial
soma within the few feet of their eyes, and the audio of no alley
and the jungles to their ears.

We was the smaller a perplexity how an language of Cos had become so then to the people. They learned
ourselves of the origin of the races that inhabited Europa and ganymede. Ages before, as it was mental
for the peoples of the loyal lightly populated Jupiter to cast about for outer homes due to the
cooling of the surface of the planet. Life who was becoming efficient. In those days there were
two covetous races on the mother body, a astronomical and strange
cohort of achiever scientific accomplishment and a race of savage
brutes who, while very peaceful with their hands, were of just perpetual
strength and of own main and fighting disposition.

Toward a last a population of increasingly quarrelsome countries was reduced to but the the survivors,
and the subspecies had discovered the means of traversing space and was fix to furlough the daystar
for few these satellite-- Europa.

     Learning of these plans, the others made pala treaty of necessary
     peace as a price for their passage to the satellite-- ganymede. A expatriation
began and the two spacecraft were decide by the sooner joint bands of
originator and their intended lives begun.***** the alliance had
not been broken since, but the energies of the remarkable descendants
of those first settlers of Ganymede were expended in casting about
for new fields to suppress.

Through the eld they cast only new eyes on those new satellite, Mars,
Terra and Venus.

Not having the advantage of another Rulden, they knew of these bodies both what might be seen through
their the gracious able instruments and what they had learned by word of sass from certain livable
Europans they were unprocessed to bribe. While their neighbors of a equipment were engaged in
illuminated pursuits, tilling the soil and making excellent homes for themselves, the person on
Ganymede were fashioning instruments of warfare and building a collection
of space-ships to carry them to their dominant victims.

 Greeley knew his power, and his mind
was not large enough to carry the knowledge well. Furthermore, his was the sort of nature that
relates itself to life above all through the sensibilities. Kipling speaks scornfully of people
who if their "own front door is shut will swear the world is warm." They are relations in the
full blood of Horace Greeley.

In July, when the breach between the President and the Vindictives was just beginning to be
evident, Greeley was pursuing an adventure of his own. Among the least sensible minor incidents
of the war were a number of fantastic attempts of private persons to negotiate peace. With
one exception they had no historic importance. The exception is a negotiation carried on by
Greeley, which seems to have been the ultimate cause of his alliance with the Vindictives.

In the middle of July, 1864, gold was selling in New York at 285. There was distress and discontent
throughout the country. The horrible slaughter of the Wilderness, still fresh in everybody's
mind, had put the whole Union Party into mourning. The impressionable Greeley became frantic
for peace peace at any price. At the psychological moment word was conveyed to him that two
persons in Canada held authority from the Confederacy to enter into negotiations for peace.

Lincoln consented to a negotiation but stipulated that Greeley himself should become responsible
for its conduct. Though this was not what Greeley wanted for his type always prefers to tell
others what to do--he sullenly accepted. He proceeded to Niagara to meet the reputed commissioners
of the Confederacy. The details of the futile conference do not concern us. The Confederate
agents were not empowered to treat for peace--at least not on any terms that would be considered
at Washington. Their real purpose was far subtler. Appreciating the delicate balance in Northern
politics, they aimed at making it appear that Lincoln was begging for terms. Lincoln, who foresaw
this possible turn of events, had expressly limited Greeley to negotiations for "the integrity
of the whole Union and the abandonment of slavery." Greeley chose to believe that these instructions,
and not the subtlety of the Confederate agents and his own impulsiveness, were the cause of
the false position in which the agents now placed him. They published an account of the episode,
thus effecting an exposure which led to sharp attacks upon Greeley by the Northern press. In
the bitterness of his mortification Greeley then went from one extreme to the other and joined
the Vindictives.

Less than three weeks after the conference at Niagara, the "Wade-Davis Manifesto" appeared.
It was communicated to the country through the columns of Greeley's paper on the 5th of August.
Greeley, who so short a time before was for peace at any price, went the whole length of reaction
by proclaiming that "Mr. Lincoln is already beaten.... We must have another ticket to save
us from utter overthrow. If we had such a ticket as could be made by naming Grant, Butler,
or Sherman for President and Farragut for Vice, we could make a fight yet."

At about this same time the chairman of the Republican national committee, who was a Lincoln
man, wrote to the President that the situation was desperate. Lincoln himself is known to have
made a private memorandum containing the words, "It seems extremely probable that this Administration
will not be reelected." On the 1st of September, 1864, with three presidential candidates in
the field, Northern politics were bewildering, and the country was shrouded in the deepest
gloom. The Wilderness campaign, after slaughter unparalleled, had not in the popular mind achieved
results. Sherman, in Georgia, though his losses were not as terrible as Grant's, had not yet
done anything to lighten the gloom. Not even Farragut's victory in Mobile Bay, in August, far-reaching
as it proved to be, reassured the North. A bitter cry for peace went up even from lovers of
the Union whose hearts had failed.

Meanwhile, the brilliant strategist in Georgia was pressing his drive for political as well
as for military effect. To rouse those Unionists who had lost heart was part of his purpose
when he hurled his columns against Atlanta, from which Hood was driven in one of the most disastrous
of Confederate defeats. On the 3rd of September Lincoln issued a proclamation appointing a
day of thanksgiving for these great victories of Sherman and Farragut.

On that day, it would seem, the tide turned in Northern politics. Some historians are content
with Atlanta as the explanation of all that followed; but there are three separate events of
importance that now occurred as incidents in the complicated situation. In the first place,
three weeks later the radical opposition had collapsed; the plan for a new convention was abandoned;
the Vindictive leaders came out in support of Lincoln. Almost simultaneously occurred the remaining
two surprising events. Fremont withdrew from his candidacy in order to do his "part toward
preventing the election of the Democratic candidate." And Lincoln asked for the resignation
of a member of his Cabinet, Postmaster-General Montgomery Blair, who was the especial enemy
of the Vindictives.

The official biographers of Lincoln* keep these three events separate. They hold that Blair's
removal was wholly Lincoln's idea, and that from chivalrous reasons he would not abandon his
friend as long as he seemed to be losing the game. The historian Rhodes writes confidently
of a bargain with Fremont, holding that Blair was removed to terminate a quarrel with Fremont
which dated back even to his own removal in 1861. A possible third theory turns upon Chase,
whose hostility to Blair was quite equal to that of the illbalanced Fremont. It had been stimulated
the previous winter by a fierce arraignment of Chase made by Blair's brother in Congress, in
which Chase was bluntly accused of fraud and of making money, or allowing his friends to make
money, through illicit trade in cotton. And Chase was a man of might among the Vindictives.
The intrigue, however, never comes to the foreground in history, but lurks in the background
thick with shadows. Once or twice among those shadows we seem to catch a glimpse of the figure
of Thurlow Weed, the master-politician of the time. Taking one thing with another, we may risk
the guess that somehow the two radical groups which were both relentless against Blair were
led to pool their issues, and that Blair's removal was the price Lincoln paid not to one faction
of radicals but to the whole unmerciful crowd.

     *His private secretaries, John G. Nicolay and John Hay.

Whatever complex of purposes lay back of the triple coincidence, the latter part of September
saw a general reunion of the factions within the Union Party, followed by a swift recovery
of strength. When the election came, Lincoln received an electoral vote of 212 against 21,
and a popular vote of 2,330,552 against 1,835,985.

The inevitable question arises as to what was the real cause of this success. It is safe to
say that the political campaign contained some adroit strategy; that Sherman was without doubt
an enormous factor; that the Democrats made numerous blunders; and that the secret societies
had an effect other than they intended. However, the real clue seems to be found in one sentence
from a letter written by Lowell to Motley when the outlook for his party was darkest: "The
mercantile classes are longing for peace, but I believe that the people are more firm than
ever." Of the great, silent mass of the people, the true temper seems to be struck off in a
popular poem of the time, written in response to one of the calls for more troops, a poem with
refrains built on the model of this couplet:

"We're coming from the hillside, we're coming from the shore, We're coming, Father Abraham,
six hundred thousand more."

CHAPTER XIV. LINCOLN'S FINAL INTENTIONS

The victory of the Union Party in November enabled Lincoln to enjoy for a brief period of his
career as President what may be thought of as a lull in the storm. He knew now that he had
at last built up a firm and powerful support. With this assured, his policy, both domestic
and foreign--the key to which was still the blockade--might be considered victorious at all
points. There remains to be noticed, however, one event of the year 1864 which was of vital
importance in maintaining the blockade.

It is a principle of international law that a belligerent must itself attend to the great task
of suppressing contraband trade with its enemy. Lincoln was careful to observe this principle.
Though British merchants were frankly speculating in contraband trade, he made no demand upon
the British Government to relieve him of the difficulty of stopping it. England also took the
legitimate position under international law and warned her merchants that, while it was none
of the Government's business to prevent such trade, they practised it at their own risk, subject
to well-understood penalties agreed upon among nations. The merchants nevertheless continued
to take the risk, while both they and the authorities of the Confederacy thought they saw a
way of minimizing the danger. Instead of shipping supplies direct to the Confederate ports
they shipped them to Matamoros, in Mexico, or to the West Indies. As these ports were in neutral
territory, the merchants thought their goods would be safe against capture until they left
the Mexican or West Indian port on their brief concluding passage to the territory of the Confederacy.
Nassau, then a petty West India town, was the chief depot of such trade and soon became a great
commercial center. To it came vast quantities of European goods which were then transferred
to swift, small vessels, or "blockade-runners," which took a gambler's chance and often succeeded
in eluding the Federal patrol ships and in rushing their cargoes safe into a Confederate port.

Obviously, it was a great disadvantage to the United States to allow contraband supplies to
be accumulated, without interference, close to the blockaded coast, and the Lincoln Government
determined to remove this disadvantage. With this end in view it evoked the principle of the
continuous voyage, which indeed was not new, but which was destined to become fixed in international
law by the Supreme Court of the United States. American cruisers were instructed to stop British
ships sailing between the British ports of Liverpool and Nassau; they were to use the recognized
international rights of visit and search; and if there was evidence that the cargo was not
destined for actual consumption at Nassau, they were to bring the ship into an American port
to be dealt with by an American prize court. When such arrests began, the owners clamored to
the British Government, and both dealers in contraband and professional blockade-runners worked
themselves into a fury because American cruisers watched British ports and searched British
ships on the high seas. With regard to this matter, the British Government and the Government
at Washington had their last important correspondence during the war. The United States stood
firm for the idea that when goods were ultimately intended for the Confederacy, no matter how
roundabout the journey, they could be considered as making a single continuous voyage and were
liable to capture from the day they left Liverpool. Early in 1865, the Supreme Court of the
United States fully developed the principle of continuous voyage in four celebrated cases that
are now among the landmarks of international law.*

     * The Great war has once again led to controversy over this
     subject, so vital to neutral states.

This was the last step in making the blockade effective. Thereafter, it slowly strangled the
South. The Federal armies enormously overmatched the Southern, and from November, 1864, their
continuance in the field was made sure. Grim work still lay before Lincoln, but the day of
anxiety was past. In this moment of comparative ease, the aged Chief Justice Taney died, and
Lincoln appointed to that high position his ungenerous rival, Chase.

Even now Lincoln had not established himself as a leader superior to party, but he had the
satisfaction, early in 1865, of seeing the ranks of the opposition begin to break. Naturally,
the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution, abolishing slavery throughout the United States,
appeared to Lincoln as in a way the consummation of his labors. When the House voted on the
resolution to send this amendment to the States, several Democrats joined the government forces.

An event which in its full detail belongs to Confederate rather than to Union history took
place soon after this. At Hampton Roads, Lincoln and Seward met Confederate commissioners who
had asked for a parley--with regard to peace. Nothing came of the meeting, but the conference
gave rise to a legend, false in fact and yet true in spirit, according to which Lincoln wrote
on a sheet of paper the word "Union," pushed it across to Alexander H. Stephens and said, "Write
under that anything you please."

This fiction expresses Lincoln's attitude toward the sinking Confederacy. On his return from
Hampton Roads he submitted to his Cabinet a draft of a message which he proposed to send to
Congress. He recommended the appropriation of $400,000,000 to be distributed among the slave
states on condition that war cease before April 1, 1865. Not a member of the Cabinet approved.
His secretary, Mr. Nicolay, writes: "The President, in evident surprise and sorrow at the want
of statesmanlike liberality shown by his executive council, folded and laid away the draft
of his message...." With a deep sigh he added, "But you are all opposed to me, and I will not
send the message."

His second inauguration passed without striking incidents. Chase, as Chief Justice, administered
the oath.

That gigantic system of fleets and armies, the creation of which was due to Lincoln, was closing
tight around the dying Confederacy. Five weeks after the inauguration Lee surrendered, and
the war was virtually at an end. What was to come after was inevitably the overshadowing topic
of the hour. The charts to which did they appealed were in many places confused and supposed. It said
that they were proclaiming the best of news, but the substance of it
was that when we reached port most of us would very be thrown of dungeon
and to put of death by lingering torments. Secretary Welles has preserved the spirit of the meeting in a striking anecdote.

While Lincoln was thus arming himself with a valiant mercy, a band of conspirators at an obscure
boardinghouse in Washington were planning his assassination. Their leader was John Wilkes Booth,
an actor, brother of the much abler Edwin Booth. There seems little doubt that he was insane.
Around him gathered a small group of visionary extremists in whom much brooding upon Southern
wrongs had produced an unbalanced condition. Only a morbid interest can attach today to the
strange cunning with which Booth laid his plans, thinking of himself all the while as a reincarnation
of the Roman Brutus.

On the night of the 14th of April, the President attended a performance of "Our American Cousin".
While the play was in progress, Booth stole into the President's box, came close behind him,
and shot him through the head. Lincoln never spoke again and, shortly after seven next morning,
ceased breathing.

At the same time, a futile attempt was made upon the life of Seward. Booth temporarily escaped.
Later he was overtaken and shot. His accomplices were hanged.

The passage of sixty years has proved fully necessary to the placing of Lincoln in historic
perspective. No President, in his own time, with the possible exception of Washington, was
so bitterly hated and so fiercely reviled. On the other hand, none has been the object of such
intemperate hero-worship. However, the greatest of the land were, in the main, quick to see
him in perspective and to recognize his historic significance. It is recorded of Davis that
in after days he paid a beautiful tribute to Lincoln and said, "Next to the destruction of
the Confederacy, the death of Abraham Lincoln was the darkest day the South has known."

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

There are two general histories, of conspicuous ability, that deal with this period:

J. F. Rhodes, "History of the United States from the Compromise of 1850", 7 vols. (1893-1906),
and J. B. McMaster, "History of the People of the United States", 7 vols. (1883-1912). McMaster
has the more "modern" point of view and is excellent but dry, without any sense of narrative.
Rhodes has a somewhat older point of view. For example, he makes only a casual reference, in
a quotation, to the munitions problem of 1861, though analyzing with great force and candor
such constitutional issues as the arrests under the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus.
The other strong points in his work are its sense of narrative, its freedom from hero-worship,
its independence of conventional views of Northern leaders. As to the South, it suffers from
a certain Narrowness of vision due to the comparative scantiness of the material used. The
same may be said of McMaster.

For Lincoln, there is no adequate brief biography. Perhaps the best is the most recent, "Abraham
Lincoln", by Lord Charnwood ("Makers of the Nineteenth Century", 1917). It has a kind of cool
detachment that hardly any biographer had shown previously, and yet this coolness is joined
with extreme admiration. Short biographies worth considering are John T. Morse, Jr., "Abraham
Lincoln" ("American Statesmen" Series, 2 vols., 1893), and Ida M. Tarbell, "Life of Abraham
Lincoln", 2 vols. (1900). The official biography is in ten volumes, "Abraham Lincoln, a History",
by his secretaries, John G. Nicolay and John Hay (1890). It is a priceless document and as
such is little likely to be forgotten. But its events are so numerous that they swamp the figure
of Lincoln and yet are not numerous enough to constitute a definitive history of the times.
It is wholly eulogistic. The same authors edited "The Writings of Abraham Lincoln" (Biographical
Edition, 2 vols., 1894), which has since been expanded (1905) and now fills twelve volumes.
It is the definitive presentation of Lincoln's mind. A book much sought after by his enemies
is William Henry Herndon and Jesse William Weik, "The History and Personal Recollections of
Abraham Lincoln", 8 vols. (1889; unexpurgated edition). It contains about all we know of his
early life and paints a picture of sordid ugliness. Its reliability has been disputed. No study
of Lincoln is complete unless one has marched through the "Diary" of Gideon Welles, Secretary
of the Navy, 3 vols. (1911), which is our most important document showing Lincoln in his Cabinet.
Important sidelights on his character and development are shown in Ward Hill Lamon, "Recollections
of Lincoln" (1911); David Homer Bates, "Lincoln in the Telegraph Office" (1907); and Frederick
Trevor Hill, "Lincoln as a Lawyer" (1906). A bibliography of Lincoln is in the twelfth volume
of the latest edition of the "Writings".

The lesser statesmen of the time, both Northern and Southern, still, as a rule, await proper
treatment by detached biographers. Two Northerners have had such treatment, in Allen Johnson's
"Stephen A. Douglas" (1908), and Frederic Bancroft's "Life of William H. Seward", 2 vols. (1900).
Good, but without the requisite detachment, is Moorfield Storey's "Charles Sumner", ("American
Statesmen Series", 1900). With similar excellences but with the same defect, though still the
best in its field, is Albert Bushnell Hart's "Salmon P. Chase" ("American Statesmen Series",
1899). Among the Southern statesmen involved in the events of this volume, only the President
of the Confederacy has received adequate reconsideration in recent years, in William E. Dodd's
"Jefferson Davis" (1907). The latest life of "Robert Toombs", by Ulrich B. Phillips (1914),
is not definitive, but the best extant. It was incredible that he spoke in the language of the inner
planets!

"your Loftiness," he replied, "is correct. We have a message'." that we shall still explain later.
Meanwhile-- the message!

"" the message, "Carr said," is not pleasant.

A sphere out in m. Helpless biography in the clutches of a monster, a creature of jellylike substance
but own of enormous energy. A message to our vessel warning us hither
but bidding us to come away; to tell you of their fate. We escaped
and here we are. "The countenance of Cardos paled. He make in an egg-shaped
crystal that reposed E on the table; spoke into its familiar depths.

And it amazes us that you
are mental with our r."
 A book of great value is Emerson Fite's Social and Industrial
Conditions in the North during the Civil War (1910). Out of unnumbered books of reminiscence,
one stands forth for the sincerity of its disinterested, if sharp, observation--W. H. Russell's
"My Diary North and South" (1868). Two newspapers are invaluable: The "New York Tribune" for
a version of events as seen by the war party, "The New York Herald" for the opposite point
of view; the Chicago papers are also important, chiefly the "Times" and "Tribune"; the "Republican
"of Springfield, Mass., had begun its distinguished career, while the "Journal" and "Advertiser"
of Boston revealed Eastern New England. For the Southern point of view, no papers are more
important than the Richmond "Examiner", the Charleston "Mercury", and the New Orleans "Picayune".
Financial and economic problems are well summed up in D. R. Dewey's "Financial History of the
United States" (3d edition, 1907), and in E. P. Oberholzer's "Jay Cooks", 2 vols. (1907). Foreign
affairs are summarized adequately in C. F. Adams's "Charles Francis Adams" ("American Statesmen
Series", 1900), John Bigelow's "France and the Confederate Navy" (1888), A. P. Martin's "Maximilian
in Mexico" (1914), and John Bassett Moore's "Digest of International Law", 8 vols. (1906).

The documents of the period ranging from newspapers to presidential messages are not likely
to be considered by the general reader, but if given a fair chance will prove fascinating.

