Billy consulted his recollections with care: they seemed to break off at the champagne. That
was early. Bertie was astonished. Did not Billy remember singing "Brace up and dress the Countess,"
and "A noble lord the Earl of Leicester"? He had sung them quite in his usual manner, conversing
freely between whiles. In fact, to see and hear him, no one would have suspected--"It must
have been that extra silver-fizz you took before dinner," said Bertie. "Yes," said Billy; "that's
what it must have been." Bertie supplied the gap in his memory,--a matter of several hours,
it seemed. During most of this time Billy had met the demands of each moment quite like his
usual agreeable self--a sleep-walking state. It was only when the hair incident was reached
that his conduct had noticeably crossed the line. He listened to all this with interest intense.

"John does owe me ten, I think," said he.

"I say so," declared Bertie. "When do you begin to remember again?"

"After I got in again at the gate. Why did I get out?"

"You fell out, man."

Billy was incredulous.

"You did. You tore your clothes wide open."

Billy, looking at his trousers, did not see it.

"Rise, and I'll show you," said Bertie.

"Goodness gracious!" said Billy.

Thus discoursing, they reached Harvard Square. Not your Harvard Square, gentle reader, that
place populous with careless youths and careful maidens and reticent persons with books, but
one of sleeping windows and clear, cool air and few sounds; a Harvard Square of emptiness and
conspicuous sparrows and milk wagons and early street-car conductors in long coats going to
their breakfast; and over all this the sweetness of the arching elms.

As the gelding turned down toward Pike's, the thin old church clock struck. "Always sounds,"
said Billy, "like cambric tea."

"Cambridge tea," said Bertie.

"Walk close behind me," said Billy, as they came away from the livery stable. "Then they won't
see the hole."

Bertie did so; but the hole was seen by the street-car conductors and the milkmen, and these
sympathetic hearts smiled at the sight of the marching boys, and loved them without knowing
any more of them than this. They reached their building and separated.

V

One hour later they met. Shaving and a cold bath and summer flannels, not only clean but beautiful,
invested them with the radiant innocence of flowers. It was still too early for their regular
breakfast, and they sat down to eggs and coffee at the Holly Tree.

"I waked John up," said Billy. "He is satisfied."

"Let's have another order," said Bertie. "These eggs are delicious." Each of them accordingly
ate four eggs and drank two cups of coffee.

"Oscar called five times," said Billy; and he threw down those cards which Oscar had so neatly
written.

"There's multiplicity of the ego for you!" said Bertie.

Now, inspiration is a strange thing, and less obedient even than love to the will of man. It
will decline to come when you prepare for it with the loftiest intentions, and, lo! at an accidental
word it will suddenly fill you, as at this moment it filled Billy.

"By gum!" said he, laying his fork down. "Multiplicity of the ego. Look here. I fall out of
a buggy and ask--"

"By gum!" said Bertie, now also visited by inspiration.

"Don't you see?" said Billy.

"I see a whole lot more," said Bertie, with excitement. "I had to tell you about your singing."
And the two burst into a flare of talk. To hear such words as cognition, attention, retention,
entity, and identity, freely mingled with such other words as silver-fizz and false hair, brought
John, the egg-and-coffee man, as near surprise as his impregnable nature permitted. Thus they
finished their large breakfast, and hastened to their notes for a last good bout at memorizing
Epicharmos of Kos and his various brethren. The appointed hour found them crossing the college
yard toward a door inside which Philosophy 4 awaited them: three hours of written examination!
But they looked more roseate and healthy than most of the anxious band whose steps were converging
to that same gate of judgment. Oscar, meeting them on the way, gave them his deferential "Good
morning," and trusted that the gentlemen felt easy. Quite so, they told him, and bade him feel
easy about his pay, for which they were, of course, responsible. Oscar wished them good luck
and watched them go to their desks with his little eyes, smiling in his particular manner.
Then he dismissed them from his mind, and sat with a faint remnant of his smile, fluently writing
his perfectly accurate answer to the first question upon the examination paper.

Here is that paper. You will not be able to answer all the questions, probably, but you may
be glad to know what such things are like.

                         PHILOSOPHY 4

1. Thales, Zeno, Parmenides, Heracleitos, Anaxagoras. State briefly the doctrine of each.

2. Phenomenon, noumenon. Discuss these terms. Name their modern descendants.

3. Thought=Being. Assuming this, state the difference, if any, between (1) memory and anticipation;
(2) sleep and waking.

4. Democritus, Pythagoras, Bacon. State the relation between them. In what terms must the objective
world ultimately be stated? Why?

5. Experience is the result of time and space being included in the nature of mind. Discuss this.

6. Nihil est in intellectu quod non prius fuerit in sensibus. Whose doctrine? Discuss it.

7. What is the inherent limitation in all ancient philosophy? Who first removed it?

8. Mind is expressed through what? Matter through what? Is speech the result or the cause of
thought?

9. Discuss the nature of the ego.

10. According to Plato, Locke, Berkeley, where would the sweetness of a honeycomb reside? Where
would its shape? its weight? Where do you think these properties reside?

Ten questions, and no Epicharmos of Kos. But no examination paper asks everything, and this
one did ask a good deal. Bertie and Billy wrote the full time allotted, and found that they
could have filled an hour more without coming to the end of their thoughts. Comparing notes
at lunch, their information was discovered to have been lacking here and there. Nevertheless,
it was no failure; their inner convictions were sure of fifty per cent at least, and this was
all they asked of the gods. "I was ripping about the ego," said Bertie. "I was rather splendid
myself," said Billy, "when I got going. And I gave him a huge steer about memory." After lunch
both retired to their beds and fell into sweet oblivion until seven o'clock, when they rose
and dined, and after playing a little poker went to bed again pretty early.

