The Einstein See-Saw

                          By Miles J. Breuer

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: In their pursuit of an unscrupulous scientist, Phil and Ione are swung into hyperspace--marooned
in a realm of strange sights and shapes.]

Tony Costello leaned glumly over his neat, glass-topped desk, on which a few papers lay arranged
in orderly piles. Tony was very blue and discouraged. The foundations of a pleasant and profitable
existence had been cut right out from under him. Gone were the days in which the big racket
boss, Scarneck Ed, generously rewarded the exercise of Tony's brilliant talents as an engineer
in redesigning cars to give higher speed for bootlegging purposes, in devising automatic electric
apparatus for handling and concealing liquor, in designing beam-directed radios for secret
communication among the gangs. Yes, mused Tony, it had been profitable.

Six months ago the Citizens' Committee had stepped in. Now the police department was reorganized;
Scarneck Ed Podkowski was in jail, and his corps of trusty lieutenants were either behind the
bars with him or scattered far and wide in flight. Tony, always a free spender, had nothing
left but the marvelous laboratory and workshop that Scarneck Ed had built him, and his freedom.
For the police could find nothing legal against Tony. They had been compelled to let him alone,
though they were keeping a close watch on him. Tony's brow was as dark as the mahogany of his
desk. He did not know just how to go about making an honest living.

With a hand that seemed limp with discouragement, he reached into his pocket for his cigarette-case.
As he drew it out, the lackadaisical fingers failed to hold it firmly enough, and it clattered
to the floor behind his chair. With the weary slowness of despondence, he dragged himself to
his feet and went behind his chair to pick up the cigarette-case. But, before he bent over
it, and while he was looking fully and directly at it, his desk suddenly vanished. One moment
it was there, a huge ornament of mahogany and glass; the next moment there was nothing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tony suddenly went rigid and stared at the empty space where his desk had stood. He put his
hand to his forehead, wondering if his financial troubles were affecting his reason. By that
time, another desk stood in the place.

Tony ran over this strange circumstance mentally. His mental processes were active beneath,
though dazed on the surface. His desk had stood there. While looking fully at it, all his senses
intact, he had seen it vanish, and for a moment there had been nothing in its place. While
he stared directly at the empty space from which the desk had disappeared, another desk had
materialized there, like a flash. Perhaps, there had been a sort of jar, a tremor, of the floor
and of the air, of everything. But the point was that his own desk, at which he had been working
one moment, had suddenly vanished, and at the next moment another desk had appeared in its place.

And what a desk! The one that now stood there was smaller than his own palatial one, and shabbier.
A raw, unpleasant golden-oak, much scratched and scuffed. Its top was heaped and piled full
of books and papers. In the middle of it stood a photograph of a girl, framed in red leather.
Irresistibly, the sunny beauty of the face, the bright eyes, the firm little chin, the tall
forehead topped by a shining mass of light curly hair, drew Tony's first glance. For a few
moments his eyes rested delightedly on the picture.

In a moment, however, Tony noticed that the books and papers on the desk were of a scientific
character; and such is the nature of professional interest, that for the time he forgot his
astonishment at how the desk had got there, in his absorption in the things heaped on top of it.

Perhaps it isn't fair to give the impression that the desk was in disorder. It was merely busy;
just as though someone who had been deeply engaged in working had for the moment stepped away.
There was a row of books across the back edge, and Tony leaned over eagerly to glance at the
titles.

"'Theory of Parallels,' Lobatchevsky; 'Transformation of Complex Functions,' Riemann; 'Tensors
and Geodesics,' Gauss," Tony read. "Hm--old stuff. But here's modern dope along the same line.
'Tensors,' by Christoffel; 'Absolute Differential Calculus,' by Ricci and Levi Civita. And
Schrödinger and Eddington and D'Abro. Looks like somebody's interested in Relativity. Hm!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He bent over, his constantly increasing interest showing in the attitude of his body; he turned
over papers and opened notebooks crowded full of handwritten figures. Last of all he noted
the batch of manuscript directly in front of him in the middle of the front edge of the desk.
It was typewritten, with corrections and interlineations all over it in purple ink.

A title, "The Parallel Transformations of Equations for Matter, Energy, and Tensors," had been
crossed out with purple ink, and "The Intimate Relation between Matter and Tensors" substituted.
Tony bent over it and read. He was so fascinated that it did not even occur to him to speculate
on the happy circumstance that the mysteriously appearing desk had brought its own scientific
explanation with it. The title of the paper told him that its sheets would elucidate the apparently
supernatural phenomenon, and all he did was to plunge breathlessly ahead in his eager reading.
The article was short, about seven typewritten sheets. He took out his pencil and followed
through the mathematical equations readily. Tony's mind was a brilliant, even though an erring one.

Under the first article lay a second one. One glance at the title caused Tony to stiffen. Then
he picked up the typewritten script and carried it across the big room of his laboratory, as
far away from the desk as he could get. He put the girl's photograph in his pocket. Then he
took heaps and armfuls of papers, books and notes and carried them from the desk to a bench
in the far corner. For, as soon as he had read the title, "A Preliminary Report of Experimental
Work in the Physical Manipulation of Tensors," a sudden icy panic gripped his heart lest the
desk and its papers suddenly disappear before he had finished reading to the end of the fascinating
explanation.

We might add that it did not. For many weeks the desk remained standing in Tony's shop and
laboratory, and he had the opportunity to study its contents thoroughly. But it took him only
a few hours to grasp its secret, to add his own brilliant conception to it, and to form his
great resolve. Once more Tony faced the world hopefully and enthusiastically.

PART II

Vanishing Valuables

The police understood Tony's share in the exploits of Scarneck Ed thoroughly, and, chagrined
at their failure to produce proof that would hold in court, they maintained a close and constant
watch on that gifted gentleman long after crime matters in the city seemed to have been cleaned
up and forgotten. For one thing, they still had hopes that something would turn up to enable
them to round off their work and lock him up with his former pals; for another, they did not
fully trust his future behavior. Nevertheless, for three or four months it seemed as though
Tony had genuinely reformed. He lived in and for his laboratory and shop. All day the scouts
could see him laboring therein, and far into the night he bent over benches and machines under
shaded lights. Then, some other astonishing occurrences distracted their attention from Tony
to other fields.

One morning Mr. Ambrose Parakeet, private jewel broker, walked briskly out of the elevator
on the fourteenth floor of the North American Building and unlocked the door of his office.
He flung it open and started in, but stopped as if shot, uttered a queer, hoarse gurgle, and
staggered against the door-casing. In a moment he recovered and began to shout:

"Help! Help! Robbers!"

Before long, several people had gathered. He stood there, gasping, pointing with his hand into
the room. The eagerly peering onlookers could see that beside his desk stood an empty crate.
It was somewhat old and weatherbeaten and looked as though it might have come from a buffet
or a bookcase. He stood there and pointed at it and gasped, and the gathering crowd in the
corridor wondered what sort of strange mental malady he had been seized with. The elevator
girl, with trained promptness had at once summoned the manager of the building, who elbowed
his way through the crowd and stood beside Mr. Parakeet.

       *       *       *       *       *

"There! There! Look! Where is it?" Mr. Parakeet was gasping slowly and gazing round in a circle.
He was a little gray man of about sixty, and seemed utterly dazed and overcome.

"What's wrong, Mr. Parakeet?" asked the building manager. "I didn't know you had your safe
moved out."

"But, no!" panted the bewildered old man. "I didn't. It's gone. Just gone. Last night at five
o'clock I locked the office, and it was there, and everything was straight. What did you do?
Who took it?"

The building manager conducted the poor old man into the office, shut the door, and asked the
crowd to disperse. He sat Mr. Parakeet down into the most comfortable chair he could find,
and then barked snappily into the telephone a few times. Then he sat and stared about him,
stopping occasionally to reassure the old man and ask him to be patient until things could
be investigated.

The building manager was an efficient man and knew his building and his tenants. He knew, as
thoroughly as he knew his own office, that Mr. Parakeet had a medium-sized A. V. & L. Co.'s
safe weighing about three tons, that could not be carried up the elevator when Mr. Parakeet
had moved in, and had been hoisted into the window with block and tackle. He knew that it was
physically impossible for the safe to go down any of the elevators, and knew that none of the
operators would dare move any kind of a safe without his permission. Nevertheless, with the
aid of a police-sergeant, his night-shift, and the night-watchmen of his building and adjacent
ones, it was definitely established that nothing had been moved in or out of the North American
Building during the preceding twenty-four hours, either by elevator or through a window to
the sidewalk.

       *       *       *       *       *

The newspapers took up the mystery with a shout. The prostrating loss suffered by Mr. Parakeet,
amounting to over a hundred thousand dollars, added no little sensation to the story. A huge
safe, disappearing into thin air, without a trace, and in its place an old wooden crate! What
a mouthful for the scareheads! For several days newspapers kept up items about it, dwindling
in size and strategic importance of position; for nothing further was ever found. Every bit
of investigation, including that by scientific men from the University of Chicago, was futile;
not a trace, not a suggestion did it yield.

Six days later the tall scareheads leaped out again: "Another Safe Disappears! Absolutely No
Trace! Some time during the night, the six-foot steel safe of the Simonson Loan Company vanished
into thin air. In the morning a dilapidated iron oil-cask was found in its place. The safe
was so large and heavy that it could not have been moved without a large truck, special hoisting
apparatus, a crew of men, and some hours of time. The store was brightly lighted during the
entire night, and two watchmen patrolled it regularly. They report that they saw and heard
nothing unusual, and were very much amazed when shown the oil-cask standing where the safe
had been the night before." The accounts in the various papers were substantially the same.

Newspaper readers throughout the city and its environs were very much intrigued. Such a thing
was very exciting and mystifying; but it was so far out of touch with their own lives that
it did not affect them very much at any time except when they were reading the paper or discussing
it in conversation. The police were the ones who were doing the real worrying. And, when the
following week two more safes disappeared, insurance companies began to take an interest in
the matter; and everyone who had any considerable amount of valuables in store began to feel
panicky.

       *       *       *       *       *

The circumstances surrounding the disappearance of the last of the series, the fourth, were
especially amazing. This was also a jewelry safe. Canzoni's is a popular firm that rents a
quarter of a floor in a big department store, and does a large volume of moderate-priced business.
The receipts are stored in a heavy portable safe in a corner of the silverware section until
evening, when they are carried to the large vault of the big store. One Saturday afternoon
after a particularly busy day, Mr. Shipley, Canzoni's manager, was watching the hands of the
clock creep toward five-thirty. He leaned on a counter and watched the clerks putting away
goods for the night; he glanced idly toward the safe which he intended to open in a few minutes.
The doormen had already taken their stations to keep out further customers. Then he glanced
back at the safe, and it wasn't there!

Mr. Shipley drew a deep breath. The safe disappearances he had read about flashed through his
mind. But he didn't believe it. It couldn't be! Yet, there was the empty corner with the birch
panels forming the back of the show-windows, and no safe. In a daze, he walked over to the
corner, intending to feel about with his hands and make sure the safe was really gone. Before
he got there, there flashed into sight in place of the safe, a barrel of dark wood; and in
a moment there was a strong odor of vinegar.

Things spun around with Mr. Shipley for a few moments. He grasped a counter and looked wildly
about him. Clerks were hurrying with the covering of counters; no one seemed to have noticed
anything. He stood a moment, gritted his teeth, and breathed deeply, and soon was master of
himself. He stood and waited until the last customer was gone, and then called several clerks
and pointed to where the safe had stood.

Within the space of a month, thirteen safes and three million dollars worth of money or property
had disappeared. The police were dazed and desperate, and business was in a panic. Scientific
men were appealed to, to help solve the riddle, but were helpless. Many of them agreed that
though in theory such things were explainable, science was as yet far from any known means
of bringing them about in actuality. Insurance companies spent fabulous sums on investigation,
and, failing to get results, raised their premiums to impossible levels.

PART III

The Lady of the Picture

Phil Hurren, often known as "Zip" Hurren, reporter on the Examiner, felt, on the day the managing
editor called him into the sanctum, that fortune could smile on him no more brightly. There
wasn't anything brighter.

"You stand well with the detective bureau," his boss had said; "and you've followed this safe-disappearing
stuff pretty closely. You're relieved of everything else for the time being. Get on that business,
and see that the public hears from the Examiner!"

Phil knew better than to say any more, for before he recovered from his surprise, the editor
had turned his back, buried himself in his work on the desk, and forgotten that Phil was there.
Nor did Phil waste any real time in rejoicing. That is why he was called "Zip." When things
happened, whether it was luck or system, Phil was usually there. In sixty seconds more, Phil
was in a taxicab, whirling toward police headquarters.

Luck or system, he didn't know, but he struck it again. The big wagon was just starting away
from the station door when he arrived, crowded inside with bluecoats and plainclothes-men.
The burly, red-faced man with chevrons on his sleeve, sitting beside the driver, saw Phil jump
out, and motioned with his hand. Phil leaped up on the back step of the vehicle and hung on
for dear life with his fingers through the wire grating as they careened through the streets.
The men on the inside grinned at him; a number of them knew him and liked him. Gradually the
door was opened and he crowded in. He found Sergeant Johnson and eyed him mutely.

"How the hell do you find these things out, I'd like to know," the sergeant exclaimed. "Are
you a mind-reader?"

"I don't really know anything," Phil admitted with that humility which the police like on the
part of newspaper men and seldom meet with. "Do you mind?"

"No objection," grunted the sergeant. "Been watching all the old crooks since these safes have
been popping. Nothin' much on any of them, except this slippery wop, Tony Costello. No, we
haven't caught him at anything. Seems to be keeping close and minding his own business. Working
in his laboratory. Ought to make a good living if he turned honest; clever guy, he seems. But
he's been too prosperous lately. Lots of machinery delivered to his place; we traced it to
the manufacturers and find it cost thousands. Big deposits in his banks. But, no trace of his
having sold anything or worked at anything outside his own place. So, we're running over to
surprise him and help him get the cobwebs out of his closets."

       *       *       *       *       *

The raid on Tony Costello's shop and laboratory disclosed nothing whatever. They surrounded
the place effectively and surprised Tony genuinely. But a thorough search of every nook and
cranny revealed nothing whatever of a suspicious nature. There was merely a tremendous amount
of apparatus and machinery that none of the raiding party understood anything about. Tony's
person was also thoroughly searched, and the leather-framed photograph of the beautiful unknown
girl was found.

"Who's this?" the sergeant demanded. "She don't look like anyone that might belong to your crowd."

"I don't know," Tony replied.

"Whad'ya mean, don't know?" The sergeant gave him a rough shake. "What'ya carryin' it for, then?"

"I had really forgotten that it was in my pocket," Tony replied calmly, at his ease. "I found
it in a hotel room one day, and liked the looks of it."

"I know you're lying there," the sergeant said, "though I'm ready to believe that you don't
know her. Too high up for you. Well, it looks suspicious and we'll take the picture."

"Boy!" gasped Phil. "What a girl she must be in person! Even the picture would stand out among
a thousand. May I have the picture, Sergeant?"

"You can come and get a copy of it to-morrow. We'll have it copied and see if we can trace
the subject of it. That might tell us something."

       *       *       *       *       *

The following morning Phil was at Police Headquarters to pick up further information, and to
get a copy of the girl's photograph. Like the police, he could not keep his mind off the idea
that there was some association between the crooked engineer and the disappearance of the safes.
It seemed to fit too well. The scientific nature of the phenomena, Tony Costello's well known
reputation for scientific brilliance, and his recent affluence; what else could it mean? In
some way, Tony was getting at these safes. But how? And how prove it? Most exhaustive searches
failed to reveal any traces of the safes anywhere. If any fragment of one of them had appeared
in New York or San Francisco, the news would have come at once, such was the sensation all
over the country that the series of disappearances had caused. Tony's calm insolence during
the raid, his attitude of waiting patiently till the police should have had their fun and have
it over with so that he might be left at peace again, showed that he must be guilty, for anyone
else would have protested and felt deeply injured and insulted. He seemed to be enjoying their
discomfiture, and absolutely confident of his own safety.

"There's got to be some way of getting him," Phil mused; and he mused almost absent-mindedly,
for he was gazing at the photograph of the girl. For many minutes he looked at it, and then
put it silently into his pocket.

Five o'clock in the evening of that same day came the news of another safe disappearance. Phil
got his tip over the phone, and in fifteen minutes was at the scene. It was too much like the
others to go into detail about; a six-foot portable safe had suddenly disappeared right in
front of the eyes of the office staff of The Epicure, a huge restaurant and cafeteria that
fed five thousand people three times a day. In its place stood a ragged, rusty old Ford coupe
body. He went away from there, shaking his head.

Then suddenly in the midst of his dinner, he jumped up, and ran. An idea had leaped into his head.

"Right after one of these things pops is the time to take a peek at Tony," he said to himself,
and immediately he was on the way.

       *       *       *       *       *

But how to get his peep was not so easy a problem. When he alighted from his cab a block away
from Tony's building, he was hesitant about approaching it. Tony knew him, and might see him
first. Phil circled the brick building, keeping under cover or far enough away; all around
it was a belt of thirty feet of lawn between the building and the sidewalk. Ought he have called
the police and given them his idea? Or should he wait till darkness and see what he could do alone?

Then suddenly he saw her. Across the street, standing in the shelter of a delivery truck in
front of an apartment, she was observing Tony's building intently. The aristocratic chin, the
brightness of the eyes, the waves of her hair, and the general sunny expression! It could not
be anyone else. Post haste he ran across the street.

"Pardon me!" he cried excitedly, lifting his hat and then digging hastily into his inner pocket.
"I'm sure you must be the--"

"Well, the nerve!" the young woman said icily, and pointing her chin at the opposite horizon
she walked haughtily away.

By that time Phil had dug out his picture and was running after her.

"Please," he said, "just a moment!" And he held the picture out in front of her face.

"Now, where in the world--?" She looked at him in puzzled and indignant inquiry, and then burst
out laughing.

"It is you, isn't it?" Phil asked. "What are you laughing at?"

"Oh, you looked so abject. I'm sure your intentions must be good. Now tell me where you got
my picture."

"Let us walk this way," suggested Phil, leading away from Tony's building.

       *       *       *       *       *

And, as they walked, he told her the story. When he got through she stood and looked at him
a long time in silence.

"You look square to me," she said. "You're working on my side already. Will you help me."

"I'll do anything--anything--" Phil said, and couldn't think of any other way of expressing
his willingness, for the wonderful eyes bore radiantly upon him.

"First I must tell you my story," she began. "But before I can do so, you must promise me that
it is to remain an absolute secret. You're a newspaper man--"

Phil gave his promise readily.

"My father is Professor Bloomsbury at the University of Chicago. He has been experimenting
in mathematical physics, and I have been assisting him. He has succeeded in proving experimentally
the concept of tensors. A tensor is a mathematical expression for the fact that space is smooth
and flat, in three dimensions, only at an infinite distance from matter; in the neighborhood
of a particle of matter, there is a pucker or a wrinkle in space. My father has found that
by suddenly removing a portion of matter from out of space, the pucker flattens out. If the
matter is heavy enough and its removal sudden enough, there is a violent disturbance of space.
By planning all the steps carefully my father has succeeded in swinging a section of space
on a pivot through an angle of 180 degrees, and causing two portions of space to change places
through hyperspace, or as you might express it popularly, through the fourth dimension."

       *       *       *       *       *

Phil held his hands to his head.

"It is not difficult," she went on smiling. "Loan me your pocket knife and a piece of paper
from your notebook. If I cut out a rectangular piece of paper from this sheet and mount it
on a pivot or shaft at A B, I can rotate it through 180 degrees, just like a child's teeter-totter,
so that X will be where Y originally was. That is in two dimensions. Now, simply add one dimension
all the way round and you will have what daddy is doing with space. Observing outside a phenomena
is not different than the mind drawing inferences from the phenomena. A deer wandering through
the forest sees it and smells it, creating ideas and memories within
its mind. The first time
he tried it, his desk disappeared, and we've never seen it again. We've thought it was somewhere
out in hyperspace; but this terrible story of yours about disappearing safes, and the fact
that you have this picture, means that someone has got the desk."

"Surely you must have suspected that long ago, when the disappearances first began?" Phil suggested.

"I've just returned from Europe," said Miss Bloomsbury. "I was tremendously puzzled when I
got my first newspapers in New York and read about the safes. Gradually I gathered all the
news on the subject, and it seemed most reasonable to suspect this gangster engineer."

"Great minds and same channels," Phil smiled. "But your father. Why didn't he speak up when
the safes began to pop?"

"Ha! ha!" she laughed a tinkly little laugh. "My father doesn't know what safes are for, nor
who is President, nor that there has been a war. Mother and I take care of him, and he works
on tensors. He has probably never heard about the safes."

       *       *       *       *       *

"What were you going to do around here?" Phil asked, marveling at the courage of the girl who
had come to look the situation over personally.

"I hadn't formed any definite plans. I just wanted to look about first."

"Well," said Phil, "as you will soon see by the papers, another safe has puffed out. It occurred
to me that we might find out something by spying about here immediately after one of the disappearances.
That's why I'm here. If you'll tell me where you live, or wait for me at some safe place, I'll
come and report to you as soon as I find out anything."

"Oho! So that's the kind of a girl you think I am!" She laughed sunnily again. "No, Mr. Reporter.
Either we reconnoiter together, or each on our own."

"Oh, together, by all means," said Phil so earnestly that she laughed again. "And since we'd
better wait for darkness, let's have something to eat somewhere. I didn't finish my dinner."

Phil found Ione Bloomsbury in person to be even more wonderful than her photograph suggested.
Obviously she had brains; it was apparent, too that she had breeding. Her cheerful view of
the world was like a tonic for tired nerves; and withal, she had a gentle sort of courtesy
in her manner that may have been old-fashioned, but it was almost too much for Phil. Before
the dinner was over, he would have laid his heart at her feet. It gave him a thrill that went
to his head, to have her by his side, slipping along through the darkness toward Tony's building.

This building was a one-story brick affair with a vast amount of window space. From the sidewalk
they could see faint lights glowing within, but could make out no further details. They therefore
selected the darkest side of the building, and made their way hurriedly across the lawn. Here,
they found, they could see the crowding apparatus within the one long room fairly well. They
looked into one window after another, making a circuit around the building, until Phil suddenly
clutched the girl's arm.

"Look!" he whispered. "Straight ahead and a little to the left!"

At the place he indicated stood a tall safe. Across the top of its door were painted in gold
letters, the words: "The Epicure."

"That's the safe that went to-night," whispered Phil. "That's all we need to know. Now, quick
to a telephone!"

"Oh," said a gentle, ironic voice behind them, "not so quick!"

       *       *       *       *       *

They whirled around and found themselves looking into two automatic pistols, and behind them
in the light of the street lamps, the sardonic smile of Tony Costello.

"Charmed at your kind interest in my playthings, I'm sure," he purred. "Only it leaves me in
an embarrassing position. I'm not exactly sure what to do about it. Kindly step inside while
I think."

Phil made a move sidewise along the wall.

"Stop!" barked Costello sharply. "Of course," his voice was quiet again, "that might be the
simplest way out. I think I am within my legal rights if I shoot people who are trying to break
into my property. Yet, that would be messy--not neat. Better step in. The window swings outward."

At the point of his pistols they clambered through the window, and he came in after them. He
kept on talking, as though to himself, but loud enough for them to hear.

"Yes, we want some way out that is neater than that. Hm! Violence distresses me. Never liked
Ed's rough methods. Yet, this is embarrassing."

He turned to them.

"What did you really want here? I see that you are the Examiner's reporter, and that you are
the lady of the photograph. What did you come here for? Ah, yes, the safe. Well, go over and
look at it."

As they hesitated, he stamped his foot and shrilled crankily:

"I mean it! Go, look at the safe! Is there anything else you want to know?"

"Yes," said Phil coolly, his self-control returning, "where are the other safes?"

"Oh. Anything to oblige. Last requests are a sort of point of honor, aren't they. Ought to
grant them. Stand close to that safe!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He backed away, his guns levelled at them. He laid down the right one, keeping the left one
aimed, and moved some knobs on a dial and threw over a big switch. A muffled rumbling and whirring
began somewhere; and then, slowly, a block of tables and apparatus ten feet square rose upward
toward the ceiling. A section of the floor on which they stood came up, supported by columns,
and now formed the roof of a room that had risen out of the floor. In it were four safes.

"Poor old Ed!" sighed Tony. "There was a time when he had a lot of good stuff put away down
there. I've got six rooms like that. Well, the good old times are over."

He threw out the switch and the whole mass sank slowly and silently downward till the floor
was level and there was no further sign of it. Then he backed away to another table, across
the room from them, keeping his gun levelled.

"Too bad," he said. "I don't like to do these things. But--" he sighed deeply, "self-preservation.
Now I'm going to flip you out, yes, out, into a strange region. I've never been there. I don't
know if there is food or drink there. I hope so, for you'll never get back here."

Phil stiffened. He determined to leap and risk a shot. But he was too late. Tony's hand came
down on a switch. There was a sudden, nauseating jar. The laboratory vanished.

There was only the safe, Ione Bloomsbury and himself, and a small circle of concrete floor
extending to a dim little horizon a dozen feet away. Beyond that, nothing. Not blue, as the
sky is. Not black, as dark, empty spaces are. It suggested black, because there was no impression
of light or color on the eyes; but it wasn't black. It was nothingness.

PART IV

Marooned in Hyperspace

"I suppose you realize what he has done?" Miss Bloomsbury inquired.

"Couldn't be too sure, but it looks like plenty. What's the equation for it?" Beneath his jocularity,
Phil felt a tremendous sinking within him. It looked serious, despite the fact that he did
not understand it at all.

"He has swung us out into hyperspace, or into the fourth dimension, as your newspaper readers
might understand it, and has let us hang there. Remember our slip of paper. Suppose X and Y
were swung out of the plane of the paper and allowed to remain at an angle with it. We are
at an angle with space, out in hyperspace."

There was a period of bewilderment, almost panic, in which they both felt so physically weak
that they had to sit down on the concrete and stare at each other mutely. But this passed and
their natural courage soon reasserted itself. Their first thought was to take stock of what
information they could get on their situation; and their first step was to venture as close
as possible to the queer little horizon which lay almost at their very feet. It gave them a
frightened feeling, as though they were standing high up on a precipice or tower.

To their surprise, the horizon receded as they walked toward it, always remaining about a dozen
feet away from them. At first they walked on concrete and then came to a crumbly edge of it
and found themselves stepping on hard, sandy earth. Later there was rock, sometimes granite-like,
sometimes black and shiny. But what they saw underfoot was nothing, compared with the glimpses
of things they got out in the surrounding emptiness. First there was a vast space in which
a soft light shone, and in which there were countless spheres of various sizes, motionlessly
suspended. The spheres seemed to be made of wood, a green, sap-filled, unseasoned wood. The
scene was visible for a few seconds, and vanished suddenly as they walked on. This astonished
them; so they stepped back a pace or two and saw it again; and as they moved on, it disappeared
again.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then there was a great stretch of water in which the backs of huge monsters rolled and from
which a hot wind blew for a few instants until they passed on and the scene vanished. There
was a short walk with nothing but emptiness, and then there appeared huge, oblique, cubistic
looking rows of jagged rocks in wild, dizzy formations that didn't look possible; and farther
on, after another interval of emptiness, a tangle of brown, ropey vines with black-green leaves
on them, an immense space filled with serpentine swinging loops and lengths of innumerable
vines. Several loops projected so near them that they could have reached out and touched them
had they wished.

"This is too much for me!" Phil gasped. "Have we gone crazy? Or did he kill us, and is this
Purgatory?"

Ione smiled and shook her little head in which she had a goodly store of modern mathematics
stored away.

"These must be glimpses of other 'spaces' besides our own space. If we could see in four dimensions
we could see them all spread out before us. But we can only perceive in three dimensions; therefore,
as we walk through hyperspace, past the different 'spaces' which are ranged about in it, we
get a glimpse into such of them as are parallel with our own space. Can you understand that?"

"Oh, yes," groaned Phil. "It sounds just about like it looks. But, don't mind me. Go on, have
your fun."

"I've been thinking about those wooden spheres," continued Ione. "I'm sure they must be sections
of trees that are cut crosswise by our 'space;' they grow in three dimensions, but only two
of them are our dimensions and a third is strange to us. We see only three-dimensional sections
of them, which are spheres. There is more of them, that we cannot see, in another dimension."

"Yes, yes. Just as plain as the Jabberwock!"

"Look! There's a real Jabberwock!" exclaimed Ione.

On ahead of them they saw a number of creatures that seemed to be made of painted wooden balls
in different colors, joined together.

"Tinkertoys!" exclaimed Phil. "Live ones! Big ones!" 

The considerable public discontentment regarding this text requires that there be an amenable
end to it.

Thus a sequel is shown in what the Australians refer to as the biggest
"bloody dingo[6] politeful" way.

       

Chapter I.

A dirty-faced young man ran into another young men who looked the same. The former said "betcha
don't know what two times two is"

"You stupid ---" (We have to remove
what was actually said, but one might say a type of ancient instrument)
"two times two is four." "Insteresting" said the latter young man.

Now,
you may not see it, but I do. This seemingly harmless conversation
is central to the outcome of the trials of William ravenshoe, the
wrongful-rightful, rightful-wrongful, and blah blah blah heir. A few more
minutes' walk brought them back to the safe without seeing any more spaces; and the sight of
its black iron bulk filled them with a home-like relief, which in a moment they recognized
as a mockery.

"Are we on a sphere of some sort?" Phil asked.

"Probably on an irregular mass of matter," Ione replied, "part of which is Tony's concrete
floor, and part of which comes out of some other dimension. This mass of matter is at one end
of a long, bar-like portion of space, the middle of which is pivoted in our world, somewhere
in Chicago, and both ends of which are free in hyperspace."

"Then," suggested Phil, "why can't we walk down to the axle on which it is balanced, and step
out into Chicago?"

"Because there isn't any matter for us to walk on. We are not able to move about in space,
in three dimensions, you know. We can only get around in two dimensions, on the surface of matter."

"Well, let's try another exploration trip at right angles to our first one. After all, these
'spaces' are an interesting show, and I want to see some more."

They started out in the selected direction, and after a short walk got a glimpse of a vast
space dotted with stars and nebulae, with two bright moons sailing overhead. A few steps farther
on was a wall of solid granite, near enough to touch with their hands. Again, there was an
intensely active mass of weaving bright stripes and loops and circles, seeming to consist of
light only, and making them dizzy in a few seconds. Ione wondered if it might not be something
like an organic molecule on a large scale. Again, odd, queer, indescribable shapes and outlines
would appear and disappear, obviously three-dimensional sections of multi-dimensional things,
cut by space. Once they passed a place of intense cold and terrific noise and escaped destruction
or lunacy only because it took them the merest instant to get past.

They arrived back at the safe, very much fatigued from the strain, their minds woefully confused.
Hunger and thirst were beginning to thrust up their little reminders; and for the first time
the terrors of their position, flung out into hyperspace on a small, barren piece of matter,
began to seem real.

       *       *       *       *       *

After a rest they started out again. These pens are then placed in iron barrels with pounded pot,
keep revolving them from five to six hours, finally polishing in sawdust.

The pens should now be a bright silver-steel color, as well as perfectly smooth. Afterward, because
they are required in various tints, they should be colored and varnished to prevent rust.
To do thiis first task, place the articles in a copper or iron cylinder
and keep circling them over a coke fire until the proper tint is obtained.

The appropriate color will be dependent upon the temperature of the cylinder. Should the pens be
intended to be lacquered, place them in a solution of shellac dissolved with methylated spirits.
This spirit should then be drained off, and pens placed in wire cylinders
and kept rotating until the air dries it.

Next, they are scattered upon iron trays, placed into an oven, and heated until the lacquer is
diffused equally over the pen surface.

When they have cooled down they should have a glossy appearance that gives them the appearance
of a finish and also prevents rust.

The pen is now completed in terms of the manufacturing process.

However, before it can be given to the public it has to go through a rigid exam called "looking
over." This is done by trained girls.

When the defective ones have been sorted from the good and the bad. The good pens are sent
to the finished warehouse to be placed into boxes. These boxes are of varying types, adapted
to suit the markets for which they are intended. Many times, the labels which form the covers
of the boxes are printed elaborately from first class designs. Some will have highly-finished
steel engravings.

These often include royal personages and celebrities in the scientific, literary, musical,
and political world.

The amounts contained in each box vary with the country. Manufacturers study only the wants
of the customers, and don't offer items counted in dozens to people who differ.

We have traced the builder of this item from its start as a plain
piece of steel to a indispensable requisite of daily life--as a pen.

HISTORY OF THE PERRYIAN PEN WORKS.

The company Messrs. Perry & Co., London, was first started in 1824 by Mr. James Perry, who conducted
businesses in Manchester, and London until James Perry died in 1843. He was replaced by his
sons, Messrs. Joseph John and Lewis Henry Perry. Through them, the firm Perry & Co. was created
and known throughout Europe as the first company to introduce superiour quality steel pens. They
are known in many countries as "Perry pens." The first pens were made by Perry & Co. in London,
from flattened wire. In 1828 Sir Josiah Mason, then a maker of steel split rings, began to produce
steel pens that were so superior that Messrs. Perry & Co. entered
into negotiations with him for sole supply of all the pens.

This continued through te formation of his company. All the while, Messrs. Perry & Co. had also
created the sale of rubber bands and pencil cases.

The production of the latter was solely by Mr. W.E. Wiley who in
1850 began the creation of gold pens.

Messrs. Perry & Co. also contracted with Mr. Wiley to buy all pencil cases they could use.
Thus, Mr. Wiley's work grew large.

Mr. Alfred Sommerville, who was connected with the steel-pen trade since it's inception, established
the firm of A. Sommerville & co. in 1851. Although in 1857 he began creating steel pens, primarily
for the Continental markets, many were either his own idea or suggested
by him. Tensors. Matter and space are so closely interrelated that you can't move matter
in or out of space without causing disturbance, recoils, and tremors in space. Those bits of
matter were small, and produced only a slight disturbance. It takes about a hundred pounds
of lead to swing this segment--"

"Oho! Got you!" exclaimed Phil. "Not so dumb! The safe!"

"Yes. The safe!" Ione cried.

"Throw it off and watch us swing, eh? What would happen?"

"I might calculate it if I knew the weight of the safe."

"No calculating when I'm around," Phil said. "It couldn't make things any worse. Try it first
and calculate afterwards."

       *       *       *       *       *

They got behind the safe and pushed, and their combined strength against it was about as effective
as it would have been in moving the Peoples' Gas Building. They sat down again in despair.

"Suppose we could budge it," Ione said. "All we could do would be to push it around, this piece
of matter we are on. That wouldn't help. We've got to get it out of space. We can't push it
hard enough to do that. It's got to be shot out suddenly--"

"And we haven't got a gun handy," Phil remarked droopingly.

"Not exactly a gun. A sort of sling--"

Phil leaped to his feet.

"A sling. Why! To be sure! The vines!"

Without another word, both of them got up and ran. They hastened in a direction opposite to
the one they had at first taken on their trip of exploration, and this brought them first past
the "space" of the Tinkertoy-like animals. As they went by, several of these beasts darted
at them, one of them snapping at Ione's heels. She uttered a scream, causing Phil to turn about
and kick right and left among them. He drove them back and escaped from them, rejoining Ione.

"Wait," he said, when they reached the vines. "Remember those wooden balls. If I could get
a few to throw at those critters--" 

The actual ribs calculated 9 ft across the contour, as well as around three in thickness. It absolutely
was conjectured how the pet in order to that these types of bone fragments belonged had been
amphibious, as well as perhaps from the crocodile loved ones. It had been additionally intended
how the pet whenever in existence, should have calculated twenty-five
ft around the entire body, as well as regarding 130 ft long.Trans.

**Geoloy.

Soc.* * * * *The actual Cochineal Bug.The visitors tend to be probably conscious which cochineal,
therefore thoroughly utilized in this particular nation with regard
to perishing, [1] is really a stunning bug generously present in parts
associated with South america as well as Peru.

A few of these bugs possess recently already been delivered to Aged The country, and therefore,
are performing extremely nicely about the prickly pear of this nation;
certainly, they're believed to a competitor actually individuals associated
with South america within the high quality as well as brilliancy of
the coloring.

Their own naturalization might probably end up being prolonged across
the coast line from the Mediterranean sea, Sicily, and also the various
says associated with A holiday in Greece.

       The actual prickly pear is actually local within individual locations,
as well as through small farming may pay for adequate nutrition for
that cochineal bugs.

We're additionally certain, (says a smart reporter from the Occasions, ) these valuable bugs
had been launched this past year about the isle associated with The island of malta, through Doctor.
Gorman, due to the federal government, and they will probably prosper upon which isle.Doctor.
Gorman found a couple of weeks because, within the botanic backyard from Cambridge. The actual
grown sylvestris, or even crazy varieties associated with cochineal,
residing in one of the simply leaves from the coffee-plants, the actual
acacia, &c. This is actually the kermes, or even gronilla associated
with The country, regarding that a lot may be stated within endeavoring
to recognize this using the grona fina.

Whatsoever occasions, these is actually the exact same varieties since the gronilla on the
fur from the eco-friendly oaks within Andalusia; as well as in certain
many years big as well as useful plants from the gronilla tend to
be collected because a part of The country through the peasantry,
as well as offered towards the Moors in order to color their own scarlet.The
actual garden enthusiast from Cambridge couldn't notify Doctor.

Gorman just how long the actual bugs have been presently there, or even through whence these
people arrived. However, they proceeded to go presently there through
the appellation associated with "amelca irritate.

Inch up The actual garden enthusiast discovered these types of bugs
really harmful in order to vegetation where these people fostered,
as well as even though he or she attempted each, and every indicates
lacking hurting the actual vegetation to get rid of all of them, he
or she discovered this impossible, because they stick to the actual
simply leaves as well as areas of the actually originate along with
this kind of tenaciousness, and therefore, are therefore, productive,
how the children in many cases are discovered distributing on their
own within the adjoining vegetation.

About this accounts, it might be really worth whilst to try the actual farming from the prickly
pear on view atmosphere with this nation, as well as location the actual bugs on all of them,
with regard to it's quite likely the actual bugs might, through great administration, prosper.[1]
It's calculated, which there has been brought in to European countries believe it or not the
amount compared to 880, 000 pounds. pounds associated with cochineal
in a single 12 months!* * * * *Fossil Turtle.The actual continues
to be of the ocean turtle possess recently already been found, and
therefore are right now within the ownership associated with Mr. Outdoor
patio, associated with Cambridge.

It's embedded within scores of septarian, evaluating up to a hundred and fifty lbs, along with two
good examples associated with fossil wooden; as well as I had been acquired within searching
with regard to concrete rock, regarding 5 kilometers through Harwich,
within 3 fathoms drinking water, exactly where, because scores of
rock, it absolutely was utilized for a while like a walking prevent.
--Bakewell's Geology.* * * * *Geological Modifications.Listed here
are the actual authors in whose views have acquired the best celeb,
because promoters with regard to specific techniques sales for that
development as well as following modification from the planet: --Mr.
Whitehurst trained how the concentric agreement from the brown crust
area from the planet had been ruined through the extensive pressure
associated with undercover fireplace.Burnet's concept supposes this
particular brown crust area to possess already been damaged for that
manufacturing from the deluge.Leibnitz as well as Buffon thought our
planet to possess already been melted through fireplace; actually,
that it's a good put out sunlight or even vitrified planet, in whose
area may be run on with a deluge.

The actual second option presumes how the planet had been seventy five thousand many years within
air conditioning in order to its existing heat, which, within 98,
000 many years much more, effective character should be lastly put
out.

        There was an impression as though
the speed of a train were decreasing as one looks out of the window. And how one view held
for several seconds, a vast and wild mountain-range with glaciers and snow peaks by moonlight. The
evening serving of food with which he regaled his visitor would of course have persuaded the most
exacting gourmand, but to Sanin it appeared endless, insupportable! Polozov ate gradually, 'with
feeling, with judgment, with deliberation,' angling attentively over his plate, and sniffing
at nearly every morsel. First he rinsed his mouth with wine, then ingested it and smacked his
lips.... Over the bake beef he abruptly started to talk--but of what?

Of merino sheep, of which he was proposing to alignment a entire flock, and in such minutia,
with such tenderness, utilising all the while endearing favourite
titles for them.

After consuming a cup of coffee, warm to boiling issue (he had some
times in a voice of tearful irritation cited to the server that he
had been assisted the night before with coffee, cold--cold as ice!)
and gnawed off the end of a Havannah cigar with his crooked yellow
teeth, he fallen off, as his custom was, into a nap, to the strong
great delight of Sanin, who started strolling up and down with noiseless
steps on the supple carpet, and imagining of his life with Gemma and
of what report he would convey back to her.

       Polozov, although, aroused, as he commented himself, previous than
usual--he had dozed only an hour and a half--and after consuming a
glass of frozen seltzer water, and ingesting eight spoonfuls of jam,
Russian jam, which his valet conveyed him in a dark-green authentic
'Kiev' jar, and without which, in his own phrases, he could not reside,
he gazed with his distended eyes at Sanin and inquired him wouldn't
he like to play a game of 'fools' with him.

Sanin acquiesced readily; he was aghast that Polozov would start conversing afresh about lambs
and ewes and fat tails. The owner and the tourist both adjourned to the drawing-room, the server
conveyed in the cards, and the game started, not,--of course, for money.  The evening serving
of food with which he regaled his visitor would of course have persuaded the most exacting
gourmand, but to Sanin it

At this blameless diversion Maria Nikolaevna discovered them on her come back from the Countess
Lasunsky's. She joked out blaring exactly she came into the room
and glimpsed the cards and the open card-table.

Sanin leapt up, but she bawled, 'Sit still; proceed on with the game. I'll change my dress
exactly and arrive back to you,' and disappeared afresh with a swish of her dress, dragging
off her hand-coverings as she went.

She did in detail come back very soon.
 Great holes were scorched into the clothes. But the face was recognizable.
Tony's playthings had got him at last. 

He was passing a ripple on the ground when a ball hit his chest; from
dawn he had been demoralized by depressing feelings.

"It's been too long since I have been warring in Africa," he said; "the bullets from Europe
don't even recognize me anymore."
 The reaction is reversible,
you see. It was a bit strange at dawn to see how the sun rose but the whole of the earth beneath
it was still dark.

It took a little while for the land to be revealed and then at last I looked to the north and
saw the edge of the ice stretching out before me.

       *       *       *       *       *

