The father of Ferdinand was the Archduke Charles of Carniola, Carinthia, and Styria, the youngest
brother of the Emperor Maximilian II.; his mother a princess of Bavaria.  Having lost his father
at twelve years of age, he was intrusted by the archduchess to the guardianship of her brother
William, Duke of Bavaria, under whose eyes he was instructed and educated by Jesuits at the
Academy of Ingolstadt.  What principles he was likely to imbibe by his intercourse with a prince,
who from motives of devotion had abdicated his government, may be easily conceived.  Care was
taken to point out to him, on the one hand, the weak indulgence of Maximilian's house towards
the adherents of the new doctrines, and the consequent troubles of their dominions; on the
other, the blessings of Bavaria, and the inflexible religious zeal of its rulers; between these
two examples he was left to choose for himself.

Formed in this school to be a stout champion of the faith, and a prompt instrument of the church,
he left Bavaria, after a residence of five years, to assume the government of his hereditary
dominions.  The Estates of Carniola, Carinthia, and Styria, who, before doing homage, demanded
a guarantee for freedom of religion, were told that religious liberty has nothing to do with
their allegiance.  The oath was put to them without conditions, and unconditionally taken.
Many years, however, elapsed, ere the designs which had been planned at Ingolstadt were ripe
for execution.  Before attempting to carry them into effect, he sought in person at Loretto
the favour of the Virgin, and received the apostolic benediction in Rome at the feet of Clement
VIII.

These designs were nothing less than the expulsion of Protestantism from a country where it
had the advantage of numbers, and had been legally recognized by a formal act of toleration,
granted by his father to the noble and knightly estates of the land.  A grant so formally ratified
could not be revoked without danger; but no difficulties could deter the pious pupil of the
Jesuits.  The example of other states, both Roman Catholic and Protestant, which within their
own territories had exercised unquestioned a right of reformation, and the abuse which the
Estates of Styria made of their religious liberties, would serve as a justification of this
violent procedure.  Under the shelter of an absurd positive law, those of equity and prudence
might, it was thought, be safely despised.  In the execution of these unrighteous designs,
Ferdinand did, it must be owned, display no common courage and perseverance.  Without tumult,
and we may add, without cruelty, he suppressed the Protestant service in one town after another,
and in a few years, to the astonishment of Germany, this dangerous work was brought to a successful
end.

But, while the Roman Catholics admired him as a hero, and the champion of the church, the Protestants
began to combine against him as against their most dangerous enemy.  And yet Matthias's intention
to bequeath to him the succession, met with little or no opposition in the elective states
of Austria.  Even the Bohemians agreed to receive him as their future king, on very favourable
conditions.  It was not until afterwards, when they had experienced the pernicious influence
of his councils on the administration of the Emperor, that their anxiety was first excited;
and then several projects, in his handwriting, which an unlucky chance threw into their hands,
as they plainly evinced his disposition towards them, carried their apprehension to the utmost
pitch.  In particular, they were alarmed by a secret family compact with Spain, by which, in
default of heirs-male of his own body, Ferdinand bequeathed to that crown the kingdom of Bohemia,
without first consulting the wishes of that nation, and without regard to its right of free
election.  The many enemies, too, which by his reforms in Styria that prince had provoked among
the Protestants, were very prejudicial to his interests in Bohemia; and some Styrian emigrants,
who had taken refuge there, bringing with them into their adopted country hearts overflowing
with a desire of revenge, were particularly active in exciting the flame of revolt.  Thus ill-affected
did Ferdinand find the Bohemians, when he succeeded Matthias.

So bad an understanding between the nation and the candidate for the throne, would have raised
a storm even in the most peaceable succession; how much more so at the present moment, before
the ardour of insurrection had cooled; when the nation had just recovered its dignity, and
reasserted its rights; when they still held arms in their hands, and the consciousness of unity
had awakened an enthusiastic reliance on their own strength; when by past success, by the promises
of foreign assistance, and by visionary expectations of the future, their courage had been
raised to an undoubting confidence.  Disregarding the rights already conferred on Ferdinand,
the Estates declared the throne vacant, and their right of election entirely unfettered.  All
hopes of their peaceful submission were at an end, and if Ferdinand wished still to wear the
crown of Bohemia, he must choose between purchasing it at the sacrifice of all that would make
a crown desirable, or winning it sword in hand.

But with what means was it to be won?  Turn his eyes where he would, the fire of revolt was
burning.  Silesia had already joined the insurgents in Bohemia; Moravia was on the point of
following its example.  In Upper and Lower Austria the spirit of liberty was awake, as it had
been under Rodolph, and the Estates refused to do homage.  Hungary was menaced with an inroad
by Prince Bethlen Gabor, on the side of Transylvania; a secret arming among the Turks spread
consternation among the provinces to the eastward; and, to complete his perplexities, the Protestants
also, in his hereditary dominions, stimulated by the general example, were again raising their
heads.  In that quarter, their numbers were overwhelming; in most places they had possession
of the revenues which Ferdinand would need for the maintenance of the war.  The neutral began
to waver, the faithful to be discouraged, the turbulent alone to be animated and confident.
One half of Germany encouraged the rebels, the other inactively awaited the issue; Spanish
assistance was still very remote. The moment which had brought him every thing, threatened
also to deprive him of all.

And when he now, yielding to the stern law of necessity, made overtures to the Bohemian rebels,
all his proposals for peace were insolently rejected.  Count Thurn, at the head of an army,
entered Moravia to bring this province, which alone continued to waver, to a decision.  The
appearance of their friends is the signal of revolt for the Moravian Protestants.  Bruenn is
taken, the remainder of the country yields with free will, throughout the province government
and religion are changed. Swelling as it flows, the torrent of rebellion pours down upon Austria,
where a party, holding similar sentiments, receives it with a joyful concurrence.  Henceforth,
there should be no more distinctions of religion; equality of rights should be guaranteed to
all Christian churches.  They hear that a foreign force has been invited into the country to
oppress the Bohemians.  Let them be sought out, and the enemies of liberty pursued to the ends
of the earth.  Not an arm is raised in defence of the Archduke, and the rebels, at length,
encamp before Vienna to besiege their sovereign.

Ferdinand had sent his children from Gratz, where they were no longer safe, to the Tyrol; he
himself awaited the insurgents in his capital.  A handful of soldiers was all he could oppose
to the enraged multitude; these few were without pay or provisions, and therefore little to
be depended on.  Vienna was unprepared for a long siege.  The party of the Protestants, ready
at any moment to join the Bohemians, had the preponderance in the city; those in the country
had already begun to levy troops against him.  Already, in imagination, the Protestant populace
saw the Emperor shut up in a monastery, his territories divided, and his children educated
as Protestants.  Confiding in secret, and surrounded by public enemies, he saw the chasm every
moment widening to engulf his hopes and even himself.  The Bohemian bullets were already falling
upon the imperial palace, when sixteen Austrian barons forcibly entered his chamber, and inveighing
against him with loud and bitter reproaches, endeavoured to force him into a confederation
with the Bohemians.  One of them, seizing him by the button of his doublet, demanded, in a
tone of menace, "Ferdinand, wilt thou sign it?"

Who would not be pardoned had he wavered in this frightful situation? Yet Ferdinand still remembered
the dignity of a Roman emperor.  No alternative seemed left to him but an immediate flight
or submission; laymen urged him to the one, priests to the other.  If he abandoned the city,
it would fall into the enemy's hands; with Vienna, Austria was lost; with Austria, the imperial
throne.  Ferdinand abandoned not his capital, and as little would he hear of conditions.

The Archduke is still engaged in altercation with the deputed barons, when all at once a sound
of trumpets is heard in the palace square. Terror and astonishment take possession of all present;
a fearful report pervades the palace; one deputy after another disappears.  Many of the nobility
and the citizens hastily take refuge in the camp of Thurn. This sudden change is effected by
a regiment of Dampierre's cuirassiers, who at that moment marched into the city to defend the
Archduke.  A body of infantry soon followed; reassured by their appearance, several of the
Roman Catholic citizens, and even the students themselves, take up arms. A report which arrived
just at the same time from Bohemia made his deliverance complete.  The Flemish general, Bucquoi,
had totally defeated Count Mansfeld at Budweiss, and was marching upon Prague.  The Bohemians
hastily broke up their camp before Vienna to protect their own capital.

And now also the passes were free which the enemy had taken possession of, in order to obstruct
Ferdinand's progress to his coronation at Frankfort.  If the accession to the imperial throne
was important for the plans of the King of Hungary, it was of still greater consequence at
the present moment, when his nomination as Emperor would afford the most unsuspicious and decisive
proof of the dignity of his person, and of the justice of his cause, while, at the same time,
it would give him a hope of support from the Empire.  But the same cabal which opposed him
in his hereditary dominions, laboured also to counteract him in his canvass for the imperial
dignity.  No Austrian prince, they maintained, ought to ascend the throne; least of all Ferdinand,
the bigoted persecutor of their religion, the slave of Spain and of the Jesuits.  To prevent
this, the crown had been offered, even during the lifetime of Matthias, to the Duke of Bavaria,
and on his refusal, to the Duke of Savoy.  As some difficulty was experienced in settling with
the latter the conditions of acceptance, it was sought, at all events, to delay the election
till some decisive blow in Austria or Bohemia should annihilate all the hopes of Ferdinand,
and incapacitate him from any competition for this dignity.  The members of the Union left
no stone unturned to gain over from Ferdinand the Electorate of Saxony, which was bound to
Austrian interests; they represented to this court the dangers with which the Protestant religion,
and even the constitution of the empire, were threatened by the principles of this prince and
his Spanish alliance. By the elevation of Ferdinand to the imperial throne, Germany, they further
asserted, would be involved in the private quarrels of this prince, and bring upon itself the
arms of Bohemia.  But in spite of all opposing influences, the day of election was fixed, Ferdinand
summoned to it as lawful king of Bohemia, and his electoral vote, after a fruitless resistance
on the part of the Bohemian Estates, acknowledged to be good.  The votes of the three ecclesiastical
electorates were for him, Saxony was favourable to him, Brandenburg made no opposition, and
a decided majority declared him Emperor in 1619.  Thus he saw the most doubtful of his crowns
placed first of all on his head; but a few days after he lost that which he had reckoned among
the most certain of his possessions.  While he was thus elected Emperor in Frankfort, he was
in Prague deprived of the Bohemian throne.

Almost all of his German hereditary dominions had in the meantime entered into a formidable
league with the Bohemians, whose insolence now exceeded all bounds.  In a general Diet, the
latter, on the 17th of August, 1619, proclaimed the Emperor an enemy to the Bohemian religion
and liberties, who by his pernicious counsels had alienated from them the affections of the
late Emperor, had furnished troops to oppress them, had given their country as a prey to foreigners,
and finally, in contravention of the national rights, had bequeathed the crown, by a secret
compact, to Spain:  they therefore declared that he had forfeited whatever title he might otherwise
have had to the crown, and immediately proceeded to a new election.  As this sentence was pronounced
by Protestants, their choice could not well fall upon a Roman Catholic prince, though, to save
appearances, some voices were raised for Bavaria and Savoy.  But the violent religious animosities
which divided the evangelical and the reformed parties among the Protestants, impeded for some
time the election even of a Protestant king; till at last the address and activity of the Calvinists
carried the day from the numerical superiority of the Lutherans.

Among all the princes who were competitors for this dignity, the Elector Palatine Frederick
V.  had the best grounded claims on the confidence and gratitude of the Bohemians; and among
them all, there was no one in whose case the private interests of particular Estates, and the
attachment of the people, seemed to be justified by so many considerations of state.  Frederick
V.  was of a free and lively spirit, of great goodness of heart, and regal liberality.  He
was the head of the Calvinistic party in Germany, the leader of the Union, whose resources
were at his disposal, a near relation of the Duke of Bavaria, and a son-in-law of the King
of Great Britain, who might lend him his powerful support.  All these considerations were prominently
and successfully brought forward by the Calvinists, and Frederick V.  was chosen king by the
Assembly at Prague, amidst prayers and tears of joy.

The whole proceedings of the Diet at Prague had been premeditated, and Frederick himself had
taken too active a share in the matter to feel at all surprised at the offer made to him by
the Bohemians.  But now the immediate glitter of this throne dazzled him, and the magnitude
both of his elevation and his delinquency made his weak mind to tremble.  After the usual manner
of pusillanimous spirits, he sought to confirm himself in his purpose by the opinions of others;
but these opinions had no weight with him when they ran counter to his own cherished wishes.
Saxony and Bavaria, of whom he sought advice, all his brother electors, all who compared the
magnitude of the design with his capacities and resources, warned him of the danger into which
he was about to rush. Even King James of England preferred to see his son-in-law deprived of
this crown, than that the sacred majesty of kings should be outraged by so dangerous a precedent.
But of what avail was the voice of prudence against the seductive glitter of a crown? In the
moment of boldest determination, when they are indignantly rejecting the consecrated branch
of a race which had governed them for two centuries, a free people throws itself into his arms.
Confiding in his courage, they choose him as their leader in the dangerous career of glory
and liberty. To him, as to its born champion, an oppressed religion looks for shelter and support
against its persecutors.  Could he have the weakness to listen to his fears, and to betray
the cause of religion and liberty? This religion proclaims to him its own preponderance, and
the weakness of its rival,--two-thirds of the power of Austria are now in arms against Austria
itself, while a formidable confederacy, already formed in Transylvania, would, by a hostile
attack, further distract even the weak remnant of its power.  Could inducements such as these
fail to awaken his ambition, or such hopes to animate and inflame his resolution?

A few moments of calm consideration would have sufficed to show the danger of the undertaking,
and the comparative worthlessness of the prize.  But the temptation spoke to his feelings;
the warning only to his reason.  It was his misfortune that his nearest and most influential
counsellors espoused the side of his passions.  The aggrandizement of their master's power
opened to the ambition and avarice of his Palatine servants an unlimited field for their gratification;
this anticipated triumph of their church kindled the ardour of the Calvinistic fanatic. Could
a mind so weak as that of Ferdinand resist the delusions of his counsellors, who exaggerated
his resources and his strength, as much as they underrated those of his enemies; or the exhortations
of his preachers, who announced the effusions of their fanatical zeal as the immediate inspiration
of heaven? The dreams of astrology filled his mind with visionary hopes; even love conspired,
with its irresistible fascination, to complete the seduction.  "Had you," demanded the Electress,
"confidence enough in yourself to accept the hand of a king's daughter, and have you misgivings
about taking a crown which is voluntarily offered you? I would rather eat bread at thy kingly
table, than feast at thy electoral board."

Frederick accepted the Bohemian crown.  The coronation was celebrated with unexampled pomp
at Prague, for the nation displayed all its riches in honour of its own work.  Silesia and
Moravia, the adjoining provinces to Bohemia, followed their example, and did homage to Frederick.
The reformed faith was enthroned in all the churches of the kingdom; the rejoicings were unbounded,
their attachment to their new king bordered on adoration.  Denmark and Sweden, Holland and
Venice, and several of the Dutch states, acknowledged him as lawful sovereign, and Frederick
now prepared to maintain his new acquisition.

His principal hopes rested on Prince Bethlen Gabor of Transylvania. This formidable enemy of
Austria, and of the Roman Catholic church, not content with the principality which, with the
assistance of the Turks, he had wrested from his legitimate prince, Gabriel Bathori, gladly
seized this opportunity of aggrandizing himself at the expense of Austria, which had hesitated
to acknowledge him as sovereign of Transylvania.  An attack upon Hungary and Austria was concerted
with the Bohemian rebels, and both armies were to unite before the capital. Meantime, Bethlen
Gabor, under the mask of friendship, disguised the true object of his warlike preparations,
artfully promising the Emperor to lure the Bohemians into the toils, by a pretended offer of
assistance, and to deliver up to him alive the leaders of the insurrection.  All at once, however,
he appeared in a hostile attitude in Upper Hungary.  Before him went terror, and devastation
behind; all opposition yielded, and at Presburg he received the Hungarian crown. The Emperor's
brother, who governed in Vienna, trembled for the capital. He hastily summoned General Bucquoi
to his assistance, and the retreat of the Imperialists drew the Bohemians, a second time, before
the walls of Vienna.  Reinforced by twelve thousand Transylvanians, and soon after joined by
the victorious army of Bethlen Gabor, they again menaced the capital with assault; all the
country round Vienna was laid waste, the navigation of the Danube closed, all supplies cut
off, and the horrors of famine were threatened.  Ferdinand, hastily recalled to his capital
by this urgent danger, saw himself a second time on the brink of ruin. But want of provisions,
and the inclement weather, finally compelled the Bohemians to go into quarters, a defeat in
Hungary recalled Bethlen Gabor, and thus once more had fortune rescued the Emperor.

In a few weeks the scene was changed, and by his prudence and activity Ferdinand improved his
position as rapidly as Frederick, by indolence and impolicy, ruined his.  The Estates of Lower
Austria were regained to their allegiance by a confirmation of their privileges; and the few
who still held out were declared guilty of `lese-majeste' and high treason. During the election
of Frankfort, he had contrived, by personal representations, to win over to his cause the ecclesiastical
electors, and also Maximilian, Duke of Bavaria, at Munich.  The whole issue of the war, the
fate of Frederick and the Emperor, were now dependent on the part which the Union and the League
should take in the troubles of Bohemia.  It was evidently of importance to all the Protestants
of Germany that the King of Bohemia should be supported, while it was equally the interest
of the Roman Catholics to prevent the ruin of the Emperor.  If the Protestants succeeded in
Bohemia, all the Roman Catholic princes in Germany might tremble for their possessions; if
they failed, the Emperor would give laws to Protestant Germany.  Thus Ferdinand put the League,
Frederick the Union, in motion.  The ties of relationship and a personal attachment to the
Emperor, his brother-in-law, with whom he had been educated at Ingolstadt, zeal for the Roman
Catholic religion, which seemed to be in the most imminent peril, and the suggestions of the
Jesuits, combined with the suspicious movements of the Union, moved the Duke of Bavaria, and
all the princes of the League, to make the cause of Ferdinand their own.

According to the terms of a treaty with the Emperor, which assured to the Duke of Bavaria compensation
for all the expenses of the war, or the losses he might sustain, Maximilian took, with full
powers, the command of the troops of the League, which were ordered to march to the assistance
of the Emperor against the Bohemian rebels.  The leaders of the Union, instead of delaying
by every means this dangerous coalition of the League with the Emperor, did every thing in
their power to accelerate it.  Could they, they thought, but once drive the Roman Catholic
League to take an open part in the Bohemian war, they might reckon on similar measures from
all the members and allies of the Union. Without some open step taken by the Roman Catholics
against the Union, no effectual confederacy of the Protestant powers was to be looked for.
They seized, therefore, the present emergency of the troubles in Bohemia to demand from the
Roman Catholics the abolition of their past grievances, and full security for the future exercise
of their religion. They addressed this demand, which was moreover couched in threatening language,
to the Duke of Bavaria, as the head of the Roman Catholics, and they insisted on an immediate
and categorical answer.  Maximilian might decide for or against them, still their point was
gained; his concession, if he yielded, would deprive the Roman Catholic party of its most powerful
protector; his refusal would arm the whole Protestant party, and render inevitable a war in
which they hoped to be the conquerors.  Maximilian, firmly attached to the opposite party from
so many other considerations, took the demands of the Union as a formal declaration of hostilities,
and quickened his preparations.  While Bavaria and the League were thus arming in the Emperor's
cause, negotiations for a subsidy were opened with the Spanish court.  All the difficulties
with which the indolent policy of that ministry met this demand were happily surmounted by
the imperial ambassador at Madrid, Count Khevenhuller.  In addition to a subsidy of a million
of florins, which from time to time were doled out by this court, an attack upon the Lower
Palatinate, from the side of the Spanish Netherlands, was at the same time agreed upon.

During these attempts to draw all the Roman Catholic powers into the League, every exertion
was made against the counter-league of the Protestants.  To this end, it was important to alarm
the Elector of Saxony and the other Evangelical powers, and accordingly the Union were diligent
in propagating a rumour that the preparations of the League had for their object to deprive
them of the ecclesiastical foundations they had secularized.  A written assurance to the contrary
calmed the fears of the Duke of Saxony, whom moreover private jealousy of the Palatine, and
the insinuations of his chaplain, who was in the pay of Austria, and mortification at having
been passed over by the Bohemians in the election to the throne, strongly inclined to the side
of Austria.  The fanaticism of the Lutherans could never forgive the reformed party for having
drawn, as they expressed it, so many fair provinces into the gulf of Calvinism, and rejecting
the Roman Antichrist only to make way for an Helvetian one.

While Ferdinand used every effort to improve the unfavourable situation of his affairs, Frederick
was daily injuring his good cause.  By his close and questionable connexion with the Prince
of Transylvania, the open ally of the Porte, he gave offence to weak minds; and a general rumour
accused him of furthering his own ambition at the expense of Christendom, and arming the Turks
against Germany.  His inconsiderate zeal for the Calvinistic scheme irritated the Lutherans
of Bohemia, his attacks on image-worship incensed the Papists of this kingdom against him.
New and oppressive imposts alienated the affections of all his subjects.  The disappointed
hopes of the Bohemian nobles cooled their zeal; the absence of foreign succours abated their
confidence.  Instead of devoting himself with untiring energies to the affairs of his kingdom,
Frederick wasted his time in amusements; instead of filling his treasury by a wise economy,
he squandered his revenues by a needless theatrical pomp, and a misplaced munificence.  With
a light-minded carelessness, he did but gaze at himself in his new dignity, and in the ill-timed
desire to enjoy his crown, he forgot the more pressing duty of securing it on his head.

But greatly as men had erred in their opinion of him, Frederick himself had not less miscalculated
his foreign resources.  Most of the members of the Union considered the affairs of Bohemia
as foreign to the real object of their confederacy; others, who were devoted to him, were overawed
by fear of the Emperor.  Saxony and Hesse Darmstadt had already been gained over by Ferdinand;
Lower Austria, on which side a powerful diversion had been looked for, had made its submission
to the Emperor; and Bethlen Gabor had concluded a truce with him.  By its embassies, the court
of Vienna had induced Denmark to remain inactive, and to occupy Sweden in a war with the Poles.
The republic of Holland had enough to do to defend itself against the arms of the Spaniards;
Venice and Saxony remained inactive; King James of England was overreached by the artifice
of Spain.  One friend after another withdrew; one hope vanished after another--so rapidly in
a few months was every thing changed.

In the mean time, the leaders of the Union assembled an army;--the Emperor and the League did
the same.  The troops of the latter were assembled under the banners of Maximilian at Donauwerth,
those of the Union at Ulm, under the Margrave of Anspach.  The decisive moment seemed at length
to have arrived which was to end these long dissensions by a vigorous blow, and irrevocably
to settle the relation of the two churches in Germany.  Anxiously on the stretch was the expectation
of both parties.  How great then was their astonishment when suddenly the intelligence of peace
arrived, and both armies separated without striking a blow!

The intervention of France effected this peace, which was equally acceptable to both parties.
The French cabinet, no longer swayed by the counsels of Henry the Great, and whose maxims of
state were perhaps not applicable to the present condition of that kingdom, was now far less
alarmed at the preponderance of Austria, than of the increase which would accrue to the strength
of the Calvinists, if the Palatine house should be able to retain the throne of Bohemia.  Involved
at the time in a dangerous conflict with its own Calvinistic subjects, it was of the utmost
importance to France that the Protestant faction in Bohemia should be suppressed before the
Huguenots could copy their dangerous example.  In order therefore to facilitate the Emperor's
operations against the Bohemians, she offered her mediation to the Union and the League, and
effected this unexpected treaty, of which the main article was, "That the Union should abandon
all interference in the affairs of Bohemia, and confine the aid which they might afford to
Frederick the Fifth, to his Palatine territories."  To this disgraceful treaty, the Union were
moved by the firmness of Maximilian, and the fear of being pressed at once by the troops of
the League, and a new Imperial army which was on its march from the Netherlands.

The whole force of Bavaria and the League was now at the disposal of the Emperor to be employed
against the Bohemians, who by the pacification of Ulm were abandoned to their fate.  With a
rapid movement, and before a rumour of the proceedings at Ulm could reach there, Maximilian
appeared in Upper Austria, when the Estates, surprised and unprepared for an enemy, purchased
the Emperor's pardon by an immediate and unconditional submission.  In Lower Austria, the duke
formed a junction with the troops from the Low Countries under Bucquoi, and without loss of
time the united Imperial and Bavarian forces, amounting to 50,000 men, entered Bohemia.  All
the Bohemian troops, which were dispersed over Lower Austria and Moravia, were driven before
them; every town which attempted resistance was quickly taken by storm; others, terrified by
the report of the punishment inflicted on these, voluntarily opened their gates; nothing in
short interrupted the impetuous career of Maximilian.  The Bohemian army, commanded by the
brave Prince Christian of Anhalt, retreated to the neighbourhood of Prague; where, under the
walls of the city, Maximilian offered him battle.

The wretched condition in which he hoped to surprise the insurgents, justified the rapidity
of the duke's movements, and secured him the victory.  Frederick's army did not amount to 30,000
men.  Eight thousand of these were furnished by the Prince of Anhalt; 10,000 were Hungarians,
whom Bethlen Gabor had despatched to his assistance.  An inroad of the Elector of Saxony upon
Lusatia, had cut off all succours from that country, and from Silesia; the pacification of
Austria put an end to all his expectations from that quarter; Bethlen Gabor, his most powerful
ally, remained inactive in Transylvania; the Union had betrayed his cause to the Emperor. 
Nothing remained to him but his Bohemians; and they were without goodwill to his cause, and
without unity and courage. The Bohemian magnates were indignant that German generals should
be put over their heads; Count Mansfeld remained in Pilsen, at a distance from the camp, to
avoid the mortification of serving under Anhalt and Hohenlohe.  The soldiers, in want of necessaries,
became dispirited; and the little discipline that was observed, gave occasion to bitter complaints
from the peasantry.  It was in vain that Frederick made his appearance in the camp, in the
hope of reviving the courage of the soldiers by his presence, and of kindling the emulation
of the nobles by his example.

The Bohemians had begun to entrench themselves on the White Mountain near Prague, when they
were attacked by the Imperial and Bavarian armies, on the 8th November, 1620.  In the beginning
of the action, some advantages were gained by the cavalry of the Prince of Anhalt; but the
superior numbers of the enemy soon neutralized them.  The charge of the Bavarians and Walloons
was irresistible.  The Hungarian cavalry was the first to retreat.  The Bohemian infantry soon
followed their example; and the Germans were at last carried along with them in the general
flight.  Ten cannons, composing the whole of Frederick's artillery, were taken by the enemy;
four thousand Bohemians fell in the flight and on the field; while of the Imperialists and
soldiers of the League only a few hundred were killed.  In less than an hour this decisive
action was over.

Frederick was seated at table in Prague, while his army was thus cut to pieces.  It is probable
that he had not expected the attack on this day, since he had ordered an entertainment for
it.  A messenger summoned him from table, to show him from the walls the whole frightful scene.
He requested a cessation of hostilities for twenty-four hours for deliberation; but eight was
all the Duke of Bavaria would allow him. Frederick availed himself of these to fly by night
from the capital, with his wife, and the chief officers of his army.  This flight was so hurried,
that the Prince of Anhalt left behind him his most private papers, and Frederick his crown.
"I know now what I am," said this unfortunate prince to those who endeavoured to comfort him;
"there are virtues which misfortune only can teach us, and it is in adversity alone that princes
learn to know themselves."

Prague was not irretrievably lost when Frederick's pusillanimity abandoned it.  The light troops
of Mansfeld were still in Pilsen, and were not engaged in the action.  Bethlen Gabor might
at any moment have assumed an offensive attitude, and drawn off the Emperor's army to the Hungarian
frontier.  The defeated Bohemians might rally.  Sickness, famine, and the inclement weather,
might wear out the enemy; but all these hopes disappeared before the immediate alarm.  Frederick
dreaded the fickleness of the Bohemians, who might probably yield to the temptation to purchase,
by the surrender of his person, the pardon of the Emperor.

Thurn, and those of this party who were in the same condemnation with him, found it equally
inexpedient to await their destiny within the walls of Prague.  They retired towards Moravia,
with a view of seeking refuge in Transylvania.  Frederick fled to Breslau, where, however,
he only remained a short time.  He removed from thence to the court of the Elector of Brandenburg,
and finally took shelter in Holland.

The battle of Prague had decided the fate of Bohemia.  Prague surrendered the next day to the
victors; the other towns followed the example of the capital.  The Estates did homage without
conditions, and the same was done by those of Silesia and Moravia.  The Emperor allowed three
months to elapse, before instituting any inquiry into the past. Reassured by this apparent
clemency, many who, at first, had fled in terror appeared again in the capital.  All at once,
however, the storm burst forth; forty-eight of the most active among the insurgents were arrested
on the same day and hour, and tried by an extraordinary commission, composed of native Bohemians
and Austrians.  Of these, twenty-seven, and of the common people an immense number, expired
on the scaffold.  The absenting offenders were summoned to appear to their trial, and failing
to do so, condemned to death, as traitors and offenders against his Catholic Majesty, their
estates confiscated, and their names affixed to the gallows.  The property also of the rebels
who had fallen in the field was seized.  This tyranny might have been borne, as it affected
individuals only, and while the ruin of one enriched another; but more intolerable was the
oppression which extended to the whole kingdom, without exception.  All the Protestant preachers
were banished from the country; the Bohemians first, and afterwards those of Germany.  The
`Letter of Majesty', Ferdinand tore with his own hand, and burnt the seal.  Seven years after
the battle of Prague, the toleration of the Protestant religion within the kingdom was entirely
revoked.  But whatever violence the Emperor allowed himself against the religious privileges
of his subjects, he carefully abstained from interfering with their political constitution;
and while he deprived them of the liberty of thought, he magnanimously left them the prerogative
of taxing themselves.

The victory of the White Mountain put Ferdinand in possession of all his dominions.  It even
invested him with greater authority over them than his predecessors enjoyed, since their allegiance
had been unconditionally pledged to him, and no Letter of Majesty now existed to limit his
sovereignty.  All his wishes were now gratified, to a degree surpassing his most sanguine expectations.

It was now in his power to dismiss his allies, and disband his army.  If he was just, there
was an end of the war--if he was both magnanimous and just, punishment was also at an end.
The fate of Germany was in his hands; the happiness and misery of millions depended on the
resolution he should take.  Never was so great a decision resting on a single mind; never did
the blindness of one man produce so much ruin.