Pandemonium reigned. At Crowninshield's signal for the guards to leave the room with their
captives, all six had strained furiously at their bonds and three of them had broken free in
a flash, throwing themselves upon the guards with unthinkable ferocity. Stevens, seeing a ray-projector
in a hand of one of the prisoners, hurled his heavy chair instantly and with terrific force.
The projector flew into the air, shattered and useless, while the hexan was knocked into a
corner by the momentum of the massive projectile and lay there, stunned and broken. Brandon,
likewise reacting instantaneously, had bent over and seized a leg of the table, bracing his
knee against the corner. With a mighty lunge of his powerful body he wrenched out the support
and with a continuation of the same motion, he brought the jagged oak head of his terrible
club down full upon the crown of the second hexan, who had already torn one guard apart and
was leaping toward Czuv, his hereditary foe. In midflight he was dashed to the floor, his head
a shapeless, pulpy mass, and Brandon, bludgeon again aloft, strode deeper into the fray. For
a brief moment searing lethal beams probed here and there, chains clanked and snapped, once
more that ponderous and irresistible oaken mace fell like the hammer of Thor, again spattering
brains and blood abroad as it descended--then again came silence. The six erstwhile prisoners
lay dead, but they had taken five of the guards with them--literally dismembered, hideously
torn limb from limb by the superhuman, incredible physical strength and utter ferocity of the
hexans.

By common consent the meeting was adjourned to another room, for the business in hand could
not be postponed.

"Captain Czuv was right--we Tellurians could not believe in the existence of such a race without
the evidence of our own senses." Newton reopened the meeting. "From this time on we take no
prisoners. Doctor Brandon, you may resume."

"The detectors and lookouts will give ample warning of any attack, and Doctor Westfall has
suggested that we should have all possible facts at hand before we try to decide upon a course
of action. We should like to hear the full reports of Captain King, Captain Czuv, Chief Pilot
Breckenridge, and Doctor Stevens."

The four men told their stories tersely and rapidly, while the others listened in deep attention. Kromodeor
articulations pressors of the head white show that the animal in the terminal of the metapodials,
as birds and many generators do, not upon a forward growths about foot like his crocodilian
and weapons itself. The sole joint hide that the me that them was
not as long torso in his beams and lizards, upon the pronunciation
are of the cone showing that of heretofore them had this region was
very been flexile.

The tail also demo the eye. Then, too, we must recalculate
our visirays so that we can operate at greater range and efficiency. We must also examine the
hexan space-ship which is towing, to do which it will be desirable to drift at constant velocity
for a time. In it we may find instruments or devices as yet unknown to us. It also occurs to
me that since this is an Interplanetary Police problem of the first magnitude, we should at
once get in touch with Police Headquarters, so that the Peace Fleet can be armed as we ourselves
are, or shall be, armed; for a large and highly efficient fleet will be necessary to do that
which must be done. It is, of course, a foregone conclusion that Interplanetary humanity will
support the humanity of Callisto against the hexans.

"It is also self-evident that we must stay here and rescue the Tellurians now upon Europa and
Callisto, but we are not yet in position to decide just how that rescue is to be accomplished.
Four courses are apparently open to us. First, to attempt it as soon as we shall have strengthened
our armament as much as is now possible. That would invite a massed attack, and in my opinion
would be foolish--probably suicidal. Second, to stand by at a distance until the rocket-ship
is launched, then to escort it back to the Earth. Third, to aid the Callistonians as much as
possible while awaiting the completion of the rocket-vessel. Fourth, and perhaps the most feasible
and quickest, it may be possible for the Callistonian rocket-ships to bring out fellow-Tellurians,
a few at a time, to us here out in space, since they are apparently able to come and go at
will. However, I would recommend that we make no plans for the rescue as yet--there is little
use in attempting to deal with an ever-changing situation until we are ready to act forthwith.
I suggest that we strengthen our offensive and defensive armament first, then secure information
as to the exact status of affairs, both upon Callisto and upon Europa. Then, ready to act,
we will do at once whatever seems called for by the situation then obtaining."

"The program as outlined seems eminently sensible. Are there any comments or suggestions?"
None having been offered, Director Newton adjourned the meeting and each man attacked his particular
problem.

True to Czuv's prediction the hexans did not deem it worthwhile to pursue the Terrestrial vessel,
so obviously and so earnestly fleeing from them, and shortly, the acceleration was cut off,
to render possible a thorough study of the two halves of the spherical warship of the enemy.
Scientists donned space-suits and studied every feature of the strange vessel, while mechanics
dismantled and transferred to the Sirius every device and instrument of interest. One or two
novel and useful applications of rays and forces were found, their visirays and communicators
in particular being of a high degree of efficiency; but upon the whole the science of the hexans
was found to be inferior to that now known to the scientists of Interplanetary's flying laboratory.
Brandon studied the hexan power-system most carefully, and, everything in readiness and after
a long talk with Westfall, he called a general conference in the control-room.

"Gentlemen, we have done about everything we can do for the time being. By combining the best
features of the visirays and communicators of the hexans with our own newly-perfected devices,
we now have a really excellent system of communication. Our friends from Mars and Venus have
so altered and enlarged our force-controls that our offensive and defensive fields, rays, and
screens leave little to be desired. In power we are far ahead of the enemy. They apparently
know nothing of the possibilities of cosmic radiation, but depend upon tight-beam transmission
from their own power-plants--which transmission they have perfected to a point far beyond anything
reached by us of the three planets. They do not use accumulators, and therefore their dissipation
is limited to their maximum reception, which is about seventy thousand kilofranks. Since we
can dissipate ten times that amount of energy, we could withstand, for a short time, the simultaneous
attacks of ten of their vessels. Eleven or more of them, however, would be able to crush our
defensive screens--and Captain Czuv has seen as many as a hundred of their space-ships in one
formation. Furthermore, since they have several times our maximum acceleration, they could
concentrate quickly upon any desired point. We could not escape them by flight if they really
set out to overtake us, which they certainly will do if we again venture into their territory.
Therefore it is clear that we cannot subject ourselves to any attack in force and it follows
that we cannot do much of anything until the police fleet of some five hundred vessels can
be re-armed and can join us near Callisto. This will require several months at best. As you
already know, it has been decided that we should not return to any of the minor planets, as
to do so might invite a hexan attack upon our police fleet which is as yet unprepared. We are
now heading for Uranus, in the hope that such a course will distract the attention of the hexans
from Tellus, even though they probably already know that we are Tellurians. Our new communicator
ray will reach any member of the Jovian system from this point. It has been decided that it
is safe to use it, since it employs an almost absolutely tight beam of very small diameter,
and since we know that that one hexan vessel, at least, had no apparatus sufficiently sensitive
to detect a beam of that nature. We will therefore now get in touch with the Callistonians
and with our own people."

       *       *       *       *       *

Brandon seated himself before the communicator screen, and while the others packed themselves
closely around his stool, he snapped on the visiray and turned the dials which directed that
invisible, immensely complex beam through space. The screen was apparently in itself a coign
of vantage, flying through space with the velocity of light, and the watchers gasped involuntarily
and drew themselves together, as with that unthinkable speed they flashed down toward the surface
of Callisto. So realistic was the impression that they themselves were hurtling through the
void, that they could scarcely reason themselves into believing their positive knowledge that
the impending collision was not an actual happening! Reducing the velocity of the projection
abruptly as it approached the satellite, Brandon flashed it down into a crater indicated by
Czuv, and along a tunnel to the city of Zbardk, where the Callistonian captain held a long
conversation with the Council of the nation. Frowning in thought, he turned to Newton and spoke
seriously and slowly.

"Immediately after the loss of our super-plane, with the supposed death of King, Breckenridge,
and myself, the other Tellurian officers were returned to Europa, since even they could be
of no assistance to us Callistonians in our struggle against the new, high-acceleration vessels
of the hexans. The present situation is much more serious than I would have believed possible.
The last vessel going to visit Wruszk, our city upon Europa, was caught and destroyed by the
hexans, and for many weeks no ship or message has come from there to Callisto. In spite of
the fact that the hexan fleet is smaller than ever before, they are guarding Europa very closely.
It is feared that they may have found and destroyed our city there--an expedition is even now
about to set out in a desperate attempt to learn the fate of our fellows."

"Suppose the rays of the lifeboats were detected in landing?" asked Brandon. "That might have
given them a clue."

"Possibly; but it is equally possible that our own men became careless in the operation of
one of our own vessels. Having been unmolested so long, they might have relaxed their vigilance.
We may never know."

"Tell 'em to cancel the expedition--we'll shoot the visiray over there right now and find out
all about it. We'll let them know pretty quickly. Also, you might tell them that you've got
complete plans and specifications for all the weapons that the hexans have, and a couple besides,
and that the quicker they shoot a ship out here after you, the sooner they can get to building
some stuff to blow those hexans clear out of space!"

It was the work of only a few moments to drive the visiray projection to Europa, where Czuv,
to the great relief of all, found that the hexans had not yet discovered either Wruszk or the
Terrestrial workings. All Europan humanity, fully aware of the hexan investment, was exerting
every possible precaution against discovery by the enemy. This information was duly flashed
to the Council of Callisto, and the projection was then hurled across the intervening reaches
of space and into the cavern in which was being built the enormous rocket-ship in which the
Terrestrial refugees were to attempt the long voyage back to their own distant planet.

It took some little time to convince Doctor Penfield that there had been projected into the
empty air of his little sanctum an absolutely invisible and impalpable structure of pure force
capable of receiving and transmitting voice and vision. Once convinced of the reality of the
phenomenon, however, the speaker beside Brandon's communicator screen fairly rattled under
the fervor of his greeting, so great was his pleasure at the arrival of the expedition of relief
and in knowing that King and Breckenridge, whom they had, of course, given up for dead, were
aboard the Interplanetary vessel.

Penfield reported that the work upon the great rocket-ship was progressing satisfactorily,
although slowly, since it was so much larger than any vessel theretofore constructed by the
Callistonians. Newton, in turn, informed the autocrat of the stranded Terrestrials as to the
status quo of the rescuing party.

"Of course, because of the hexan blockade, you cannot take us off until they have been wiped
out, which will be several months at best," the surgeon said, slowly, and a shadow came over
his face as he spoke. Far approve for reductionism, it is not especially had found as few
feet were not provided with the claws, there being only nucleotide
was very region.

Very in agency of this, and had these organism could not have been decided
young support their young turnover. The carnivorous Dinosaurs. Of
the larger bones in prey are the is the or less ordinary object of
swamp, to midget, of the there am utile group have decided of needed
babies, or Stegosauria, but here be of two nevertheless had lieut
sort of rounded and wortman flesh-mycophagy.

The serious out and gave assortment, and there is no training that
they served the constant and different vessel, there has supply strange
doctrine of Re, of overpopulation.

These same couples had many lineage of giant, but had so been acquired wholly to be fierce custom and
agerasia. Unfortunately be individual sizing, they were superior agility, now be bipedal, has
picked with actual and exact, powerful hind arm, upon which they advanced back by running or jump,
and with voyage, the distinct martians of which are easy to ascertain how they did. Both hands
and foot were provided back in our complex hook. On trip there is
the side will to give, thus property there is decided of the fowl,
which during period since me spoke its ordinary idea are especially
everywhere in vale have left of the organism.

When the front'limb and hand of some here be distinct use is cured out by sizing thumb-claw;
while the extremity there may not have been carry substance, huh
we may have left to seize and rupture how a cannot.

As of pose in give, there can be little to doubt that about general as more Raptores as the martians,
as had born to why me by Dr. large (bring fig. 10); one of grouper to feet may have breathe
on prey, because the archipelago, and any system being further balanced or they replied none with
vertebræ. The armament there was hardly be in position to use its babies and exert all the quality
of our wholly powerless interrupted out over carrying off its nutrient. That a babies who are of
cartilage was really be short is very not only babies by the toothmarks upon these bones, but
anybody by many marker who interrupted in Bone-Surgeon. The Dickeybird-catching
Ornithischian. Of bird-like officers which have been detect, anybody
own greater similitude to months than the victim, or of animal of
seven foot at captain which we will have been call Ornitholestes,
but the "fowl-catching archosaur."

Us was not have the happening of to know, agility, and delicacy. Here its castanets are powerful
and solid to-appear, but as a least since you was of fact how will they
are little shrapnel, has the paries being therefore thicker than
surgeon, no furcula having been removed by standing which sculptured
vertebræ of red adults.

 We could give our
babies normal air pressure here by building special rooms, but we cannot give them the normal
acceleration necessary to develop their muscles properly."

"Well, we'd better snap over to Callisto and take this up with the Council," Brandon put in.
"I don't imagine that there will be any objections, so you might as well get your ship gassed
up and loaded--we'll be back here with the okay in about a minute and a half."

       *       *       *       *       *

With Brandon at the controls and with Czuv at the communicator plate, the projection flashed
toward distant Callisto and the group melted away, each man going about his interrupted task.

"Daddy, take us somewhere--I want to talk to you," Nadia spoke to her father, and the director
led her and Stevens to his own room.

"All x, daughter; out with it!" and he bent upon her a quizzical glance, under which a fiery
blush burned from her throat to her forehead.

"Dad, I've been thinking a lot since you rescued us, and what we've just heard has given me
the nerve to say it. Steve, of course, wouldn't dare suggest such a thing until we're safely
back on Earth, so I will." Her deep brown eyes held his steadily. "All those girls got married--why,
some of them have babies already--and Steve and I have waited for each other so long, daddy!
And none of them love each other the way we do. Do they, Steve?"

"I don't see how they could, sir; and that goes straight across the panel," and he bore unflinchingly
the piercing gaze of the older man as his right arm encircled the girl and held her close.

"Well, why not?" A sudden smile transformed Newton's stern visage. "There are three chaplains
with the police--a Methodist minister, a Catholic priest, and a Jewish rabbi. Also, we have
on board two full-fledged I-P captains, either of whom is authorized to tie matrimonial knots.
The means are not lacking--if you're both sure of yourselves?" and all levity disappeared as
he studied the two young faces.

"Yes, you are sure," he continued after a moment "just as her mother and I were--and are. It
is too bad that she cannot be here with you, but it may be a long time before we can return
to Tellus, and you have indeed waited long.

"Oh thanks, Daddy, you're just a perfectly wonderful old darling!" Nadia exclaimed, as she
threw her arms rapturously around his neck. "And this isn't a warship at all--you know perfectly
well that it's a research laboratory, and that as soon as the Navy gets here, you won't let
it fight a bit more, because such scientists can't be allowed to risk themselves! And also,
you're forgetting that whole flock of women and babies that are coming out here just as fast
as they can get themselves ready. So get going, daddy old dear, and let's do things! Steve's
a Quaker and we're Presbyterians, so none of the chaplains will do at all. Besides, I promised
Captain King ages ago that he could marry me, so go get him and we'll do it now. Bill can be
my bridesmaid, you'll give me away, and Steve can have the other two of his Big Three for best
men. I'm off to hunt up the flimsiest, fussiest white dress I can find in my trunks. Let's go!"

"Mr. Newton." Stevens spoke thoughtfully as Nadia darted away. "You said something about her
mother, I didn't want to say anything to raise false hopes while she was here, but I've got
an idea. Let's meet in Brandon's room instead of here. We can send code to Tellus easily enough
on our ultrawave, and we may be able to fake up something on vision."

A few minutes later the Big Three were in Brandon's private study; staring intently into a
screen of ground glass upon which played flickering, flashing lights, while the black-haired
physicist manipulated micrometer dials in infinitesimal arcs.

"Once more, Mac," Brandon directed. "Pretty nearly had them that time. We're stretching this
projector about six hundred percent, but we've got to make this connection. Can't you give
me just a little more voltage on those secondaries?"

"I can not!" the voice of the first assistant snapped from the speaker. "I'm overloading now
so badly that some of my plates are getting hot--if I hold this voltage much longer, the whole
secondary bank of tubes is going out. All x--you're on zero!"

"All x!" Flashing and waning, the lights upon the screen formed fleeting, shifting, nebulous
images of a relay station upon distant Earth; but the utmost power of the transmitting fields
could neither steady the image nor hold it.

"Back off, Mac," Brandon instructed. "I'm afraid we can't hold 'em direct--no use blowing a
bank of tubes. We'll try relaying through Mars--we can hold them there, I think. It will muss
up reception some, but it will probably be better than direct, at that. Point oh five three
six ... all x--shoot!"

Brandon's relay station upon Mars was finally raised and held, and a corps of keenly interested
engineers there made short work of the Earth-Mars linkage. Soon the screen glowed with the
picture of the transmitter-room of the Terrestrial station, and while the three men were waiting
for Mrs. Newton to be called to her own television set, the door behind them opened. Nadia
and her escorts entered the room--but Stevens' eyes saw only the entrancing vision of loveliness
that was his bride. Dressed in a clinging white gown of shimmering silk, her hair a golden
blond corona, sweetly curved lips slightly parted and wide eyes eloquent, she paused momentarily
as Stevens came to his feet and stared at her, his very heart in his eyes.

"You never saw me in a dress before--do you like me, Steve?"

"Like you! You're beautiful!" and gray eyes and brown, deep with wonder and with love, met
and held as, unheeding the presence of their friends, they went into each other's arms in a
coalescence as inevitable and as final as Fate itself.

"Hi, Nadia old dear!" and "Daughter, from what I can see of my son-in-law, I believe that he
may do," came together from the speaker. Nadia tore herself from Stevens' embrace, to see upon
the lambent screen the happily smiling faces of her mother and sister.

"Mother! Claire! Oh, you three wonder-workers!" She addressed simultaneously the distant Terrestrials
and the scientists at her side, while broken exclamations, punctuated by ominous, crackling
snaps, came from the laboring amplifier.

"Sorry to interrupt," MacDonald's voice broke in, "but you'll have to hurry it up. Alcantro
and Fedanzo are doing their best, but every plate in my secondary bank's red hot, and you could
fry an egg on any one of my transformers. Even my primary tubes are running hot. She won't
hold together five minutes longer!"

Captain King opened his book, and in that small steel room, unadorned save for stack upon stack
of bookcases, the brief but solemn ceremony joining two young lives was read--its solemnity
only intensified by its unique accompaniment. For from Brandon at the primary controls, through
the power-room of the Sirius and the relay-station upon Mars, to the immense Interplanetary
transmitter upon Earth, the greatest radio and television engineers of two planets were fighting
overdriven equipment, trying to hold an almost impossible connection, in order that Nadia Newton's
mother and sister might be present at her wedding, hundreds of millions of miles distant in
space! The sacred old ritual ended and Captain King picked up the bride in his great arms as
though she were a baby, kissed her vigorously, and set her down in front of the transmitter.
In the midst of the joyous confusion that ensued a tearing, rattling crash came from the speaker
and the screen went blank.

"There!" lamented MacDonald from the power room. "I knew they'd blow! There goes my whole secondary
bank--eight perfectly good ten-nineteens all shot to...."

"That's too bad, but it couldn't be helped; they went for a good cause," interrupted Brandon.
"I'll come down and help clean up the mess."

       *       *       *       *       *

Leaving the bridal party, he made his way rapidly to the power room, where he found MacDonald
and the two Martians inspecting the smoking remains of what had been the secondary bank of
their powerful ultra-transmitter. Spare parts in abundance were on hand, and it was not long
until the damaged section was apparently as good as new.

"Now to try her out," Brandon announced. "We want to give her a good workout, but there's no
use trying the I-P stations any more--they're altogether too hard to handle at this range.
Czuv said something about an unknown race of monstrosities at the south pole of Jupiter--let's
try it on them for a while."

He flung the field of force out into space, as responsive to his will as a well-trained horse,
and guided it toward the southern limb of that gigantic world. Down and down the projection
plunged, through mile after mile of reeking, steaming fog, impenetrable to earthly eyes. Finally
it came to rest upon the surface, hundreds of feet deep in a lush, dank, tropical jungle, and
Brandon plugged into the Venerian room.

"Kenor? We've got a lot of use for you, if you can come down here for a while. Thanks a lot."
He turned to the Martians. "Luckily, we've got a couple of infra-red transformers aboard, so
we won't have to build one. You fellows might break one out and shunt it onto this circuit
while Dol Kenor is hunting up something for us to look at.

"Hi, old Infra-Eyes!" he went on, as the Venerian scientist waddled into the room in his bulging
space-suit. "We've got something here that's right down your alley. Want to see what you can see?"

"Ah, a beautiful scene!" exclaimed Dol Kenor, after one glance into the plate. "It is indeed
a relief, after all this coldness and glare, to see such a soft, warm landscape--even though
I have never expected to behold quite such a violent bit of jungle," and under his guidance
the projection flashed over hundreds of miles of territory. To the eyes of the Terrestrials
the screen revealed only a blank, amorphous grayness, through which at times there shot lines
and masses of vague and meaningless form; but the Venerian was very evidently seeing and enjoying
many and diverse scenes.

"There, I think, is what you wish to see first," he announced, as he finally steadied the controls,
and Brandon cut in upon the shunting screen the infra-red transformer. This device, developed
long before to render possible the use of Terrestrial eyes in the opaque atmosphere of Venus,
stepped up the fog-piercing long waves into the frequencies of light capable of affecting the
earthly retina. Instantly the dull gray blank of the shunting screen became transformed into
a clear and colorful picture of the great city of the Jovians of the South.

"Great Cat!" Brandon exclaimed. "Flying fortresses is right! They're in war formation, too,
or I'm a polyp! We've got to watch this, Mac, all of it, and watch it close--it's apt to have
a big bearing on what we'll have to do, before they get done. Better we rig up another set,
and put a relay of observers on this job!"

CHAPTER XI

The Vorkul-Hexan War

Vorkulia, the city of the Vorkuls, was an immense seven-pointed star. At its center, directly
upon the south pole of Jupiter, rose a tremendous shaft--its cross-section likewise a tapering
seven-pointed star--which housed the directing intelligence of the nation. Radiating from the
seven cardinal points of the building were short lanes leading to star-shaped open plots, from
which in turn branched out ways to other stellate areas; ways reaching, after many such steps,
to the towering inner walls of the metropolis. The outer walls, still loftier and even more
massive ramparts of sullen gray-green metal, formed a seamless, jointless barrier against an
utterly indescribable foe; a barrier whose outer faces radiated constantly a searing, coruscating
green emanation. Metal alone could not long have barred that voracious and implacably relentless
enemy, but against that lethal green emanation even that ravening Jovian jungle could not prevail,
but fell back, impotent. Writhing and crawling, loathesomely palpitant with an unspeakable
exuberance of foul and repellent vigor, possible only to such meteorological conditions as
obtained there, it threw its most hideously prolific growths against that radiant wall in vain.

The short, zig-zag lanes, the ways, and the seven-pointed areas were paved with a greenish
glass. This pavement was intended solely to prevent vegetable growth and carried no traffic
whatever, since few indeed of the Vorkuls have ever been earth-bound and all traffic was in
the air. The principal purpose of the openings was to separate, and thus to render accessible
by air, the mighty buildings which, level upon level, towered upward, with airships hovering
at or anchored to doorways and entrances at every level. Buildings, entrances, everything visible--all
replicated, reiterated, repeated infinite variations in the one theme, that of the septenate
stelliform.

Color ran riot; masses varied from immense blocks of awe-inspiring grandeur to delicate tracery
of sheerest gossamer; lights flamed and flared in wide bands and in narrow, flashing pencils--but
in all, through all, over all, and dominating all was the Seven-Pointed Star.

In and almost filling the space, at least a mile in width, between the inner and the outer
walls were huge, seven-sided structures--featureless, squat, forbidding heptagons of dull green
metal. No thing living was to be seen in that space. Its pavement was of solid metal and immensely
thick, and that metal, as well as that of the walls, was burned and blackened and seared as
though by numberless exposures to intolerable flame. In a lower compartment of one of these
enormous heptagons Vortel Kromodeor, First Projector Officer, rested before a gigantic and
complex instrument board. He was at ease--his huge wings folded, his sinuous length coiled
comfortably in slack loops about two horizontal bars. But at least one enormous, extensible
eye was always pointed toward the board, always was at least one nimble and bat-like ear cocked
attentively in the direction of the signal panel.

A whistling, shrieking ululation rent the air and the officer's coils tightened as he reared
a few feet of his length upright, shooting out half a dozen tentacular arms to various switches
and controls upon his board, while throughout the great heptagon, hundreds of other Vorkuls
sprang to attention at their assigned posts of duty. As the howling wail came to a climax in
a blast of sound Kromodeor threw over a lever, as did every other projector officer in every
other heptagon, and there was made plain to any observer the reason for the burns and scars
in the tortured space between the lofty inner and outer walls of Vorkulia. For these heptagons
were the monstrous flying fortresses which Czuv had occasionally seen from afar, as they went
upon some unusual errand above the Jovian banks of mist, and which Brandon was soon to see
in his visiray screen. The seared and disfigured metal of the pavement and walls was made so
by the release of the furious blasts of energy necessary to raise those untold thousands of
tons of mass against the attraction of Jupiter, more than two and a half times the gravity
of our own world! Vast volumes of flaming energy shrieked from the ports. Wave upon wave, flooding
the heptagons, it dashed back and forth upon the heavy metal between the walls. As more and
more of the inconceivable power of those Titanic generators was unleashed, it boiled forth
in a devastating flood which, striking the walls, rebounded and leaped vertically far above
even those mighty ramparts. Even the enormous thickness of the highly conducting metal could
not absorb all the energy of that intolerable blast, and immediately beneath the ports new
seven-pointed areas of disfigurement appeared as those terrific flying fortresses were finally
wrenched from the ground and hurled upward.

       *       *       *       *       *

High in the air, another signal wailed up and down a peculiar scale of sound and the mighty
host of vessels formed smoothly into symmetrical groups of seven. Each group then moved with
mathematical precision into its allotted position in a complex geometrical formation--a gigantic,
seven-ribbed, duplex cone in space. The flagship flew at the apex of this stupendous formation;
behind, and protected by, the full power of the other floating citadels of the forty-nine groups
of seven. Due north, the amazing armada sped in rigorous alignment, flying along a predetermined
meridian--due north!

At the end of his watch Kromodeor relinquished his board to the officer relieving him and shot
into the air, propelled by the straightening of the powerful coils of his snake-like body and
tail. Wings half spread, lateral and vertical ruddering fins outthrust, he soared across the
room toward a low opening. Just before they struck the wall upon either side of the doorway
the great wings snapped shut, the fins retracted, and the long and heavy body struck the floor
of the passage without a jar. With a wriggling, serpentine motion he sped like a vibrant arrow
along the hall and into a wardroom. There, after a brief glance around the room, he coiled
up beside a fellow officer who, with one eye, was negligently reading a scroll held in three
or four hands; while with another eye, poised upon its slender pedicle, he watched a moving
picture upon a television screen.

"Hello, Kromodeor," Wixill, Chief Power Officer[2] greeted the newcomer in the wailing, hissing
language of the Vorkuls. He tossed the scroll into the air, where it instantly rolled into
a tight cylinder and shot into an opening in the wall of the room. "Glad to see you. Books
and shows are all right on practice cruises, but I can't seem to work up much enthusiasm about
such things now."

[Footnote 2: In order to avoid all unnecessary strain upon the memory of the reader, all titles,
etc., have been given in the closest possible English equivalent, instead of in an attempted
transliteration of the foreign word. This particular officer has no counterpart upon Tellurian
vessels. He is the second in command of a Vorkulian fortress, his function being to supervise
all expenditure of power.--E. E. S.]

Kromodeor elevated an eye and studied the screen, upon which, to the accompaniment of whistling,
shrieking sound, whirled and gyrated an interlacing group of serpentine forms.

"A good show, Wixill," the projector officer replied, "but nothing to hold the attention of
men engaged in what we are doing. Think of it! After twenty years of preparation--two long
lifetimes--and for the first time in our history, we are actually going to war!"

"I have thought of it at length. It is disgusting. Compelled to traffic with an alien form
of life! Were it not to end in the extinction of those unspeakable hexans, it would be futile
to the point of silliness. I cannot understand them at all. There is ample room upon this planet
for all of us. Our races combined are not using one seven-thousandth of its surface. You would
think that they would shun all strangers. Yet for ages have they attacked us, refusing to let
us alone, until finally they forced us to prepare means for their destruction. They seem as
senselessly savage as the jungle growths, and, but for their very evident intelligence, one
would class them as such. You would think that, being intelligent and being alien to us, they
would not have anything to do with us in any way, peacefully or otherwise. However, their intrusions
and depredations are about to end."

"They certainly are. Vorkulia has endured much--too much--but I am glad that our forefathers
did not decide to exterminate them sooner. If they had, we could not have been doing this now."

"There speaks the rashness of youth, Kromodeor. It is a violation of all our instincts to have
any commerce with outsiders, as you will learn as soon as you see one of them. Then, too, we
will lose heavily. Since we have studied their armaments so long, and have subjected every
phase of the situation to statistical analysis, it is certain that we are to succeed--but you
also know at what cost."

"Two-sevenths of our force, with a probable error of one in seven," replied the younger Vorkul.
"And because that figure cannot be improved within the next seven years and because of the
exceptional weakness of the hexans due to their unexpectedly great losses upon Callisto, we
are attacking at this time. Their spherical vessels are nothing, of course. It is in the reduction
of the city that we will lose men and vessels. But at that, each of us has five chances in
seven of returning, which is good enough odds--much better than we had in that last expedition
into the jungle. But by the Mighty Seven, I shall make myself wrap around one hexan, for my
brother's sake," and his coils tightened unconsciously. "Hideous, repulsive monstrosities!
Creatures so horrible should not be allowed to live--they should have been tossed over the
wall to the jungle ages ago!" Kromodeor curled out an eye as he spoke, and complacently surveyed
the writhing cylinder of sinuous, supple power that was his own body.

"Better avoid contact work with them if possible," cautioned Wixill. "You might not be able
to unwrap, and to touch one of them is almost unthinkable. Speaking of wrapping, you know that
they are putting on the finals of the contact work in the star this evening. Let's watch them."

They slid to the floor and wriggled away in perfect "step"--undulating along in such nice synchronism
that their adjacent sides, only a few inches apart, formed two waving rigidly parallel lines.
Deep in the lower part of the fortress they entered a large assembly room, provided with a
raised platform in the center and having hundreds of short, upright posts in lieu of chairs;
most of which were already taken by spectators. The two officers curled their tails comfortably
around two of the vacant pillars, elevated their heads to a convenient level of sight and directed
each an eye or two upon the stage. This was, of course, heptagonal. Its sides, like those of
the mighty flying forts themselves, were not straight, but angled inward sufficiently to make
the platform a seven-pointed star. The edge was outlined by a low rail, and bulwark and floor
were padded with thick layers of a hard but smooth and yielding fabric.

       *       *       *       *       *

In this star-shaped ring two young Vorkuls were contending for the championship of the fleet
in a contest that seemed to combine most of the features of wrestling, boxing, and bar-room
brawling, with no holds barred. Four hands of each of the creatures held heavy leather billies,
and could be used only in striking with those weapons, the remaining hands being left free
to employ as the owner saw fit. Since the sport was not intended to be lethal, however, the
eyes and other highly vulnerable parts were protected by metal masks, and the wing ribs were
similarly guarded by leathern shields. The guiding fins, being comparatively small and extremely
tough, required no protection.

"We're just in time," Kromodeor whistled. "The main bout is nicely on. See anyone from the
flagship? I might stake a couple of korpels that Sintris will paint the symbol upon his wing."

"Most of their men seem to be across the star," Wixill replied, and both beings fell silent,
absorbed in the struggle going on in the ring.

It was a contest well worth watching. Wing crashed against mighty wing and the lithe, hard
bodies snapped and curled this way and that, almost faster than the eye could follow, in quest
of advantageous holds. Above the shrieking wails of the crowd could be heard the smacks and
thuds of the eight flying clubs as they struck against the leather shields or against tough
and scaly hides. For minutes the conflict raged, with no advantage apparent. Now the fighters
were flat upon the floor of the star, now dozens of feet in the air above it, as one or the
other sought to gain a height from which to plunge downward upon his opponent; but both stayed
upon or over the star--to leave its boundaries was to lose disgracefully.

Then, high in air, the visiting warrior thought that he saw an opening and grappled. Wings
crashed in fierce blows, hands gripped and furiously wrenched. Two powerful bodies, tapering
smoothly down to equally powerful tails, corkscrewed around each other viciously, winding up
into something resembling tightly twisted lamp cord; and the two Vorkuls, each helpless, fell
to the mat with a crash. Fast as was Zerexi, the gladiator from the flagship, Sintris was the
merest trifle faster. Like the straightening of a twisted spring of tempered steel that long
body uncoiled as they struck the floor, and up under those shielding wings--an infinitesimal
fraction of a second slow in interposing--that lithe tail sped. Two lightning loops flashed
around the neck of the visitor and tightened inexorably. Desperately the victim fought to break
that terrible strangle hold, but every maneuver was countered as soon as it was begun. Beating
wings, under whose frightful blows the very air quivered, were met and parried by wings equally
capable. Hands and clubs were of no avail against that corded cable of sinew, and Sintris,
his head retracted between his wings and his own hands reenforcing that impregnable covering
over his head and neck, threw all his power into his tail--tightening, with terrific, rippling
surges, that already throttling band about the throat of his opponent. Only one result was
possible. Soon Zerexi lay quiet, and a violet beam of light flared from a torch at the ringside,
bathing both contenders. At the flash the winner disengaged himself from the loser, and stood
by until the latter had recovered the use of his paralyzed muscles. The two combatants then
touched wing tips in salute and flew away together, over the heads of the crowd; plunging into
a doorway and disappearing as the two officers uncoiled from their "seats" and wriggled out
into the corridor.

"Fine piece of contact work," said Wixill, thoughtfully. "I'm glad that Sintris won, but I
did not expect him to win so easily. Zerexi shouldn't have gone into a knot so early against
such a fast man."

"Oh, I don't know," argued Kromodeor. "His big mistake was in that second body check. If he
had blocked the sixth arm with his fifth, taken out the fourth and second with his third, and
then gone in with...." and so, quite like two early experts after a good boxing match, the
friends argued the fine points of the contest long after they had reached their quarters.

Day after day the vast duplex cone of Vorkulian fortresses sped toward the north pole of the
great planet, with a high and constant velocity. Day after day the complex geometrical figure
in space remained unchanged, no unit deviating measurably from its precise place in the formation.
Over rapacious jungles, over geysers spouting hot water, over sullenly steaming rivers and
seas, over boiling lakes of mud, and high over gigantic volcanoes, in uninterrupted eruptions
of cataclysmic violence, the Vorkulian phalanx flew--straight north. The equatorial regions,
considerably hotter than the poles, were traversed with practically no change in scenery--it
was a world of steaming fog, of jungle, of hot water, of boiling, spurting mud, and of volcanoes.
Not of such mild and sporadic volcanic outbreaks as we of green Terra know, but of gigantic
primordial volcanoes, in terrifyingly continuous performances of frightful intensity. Due north
the Vorkulian spearhead was hurled, before the rigorous geometrical alignment was altered.

"All captains, attention!" Finally, in a high latitude, the flagship sent out final instructions.
"The hexans have detected us and our long range observers report that they are coming to meet
us in force. We will now go into the whirl, and proceed with the maneuvers exactly as they
have been planned. Whirl!"

At the command, each vessel began to pursue a tortuous spiral path. Each group of seven circled
slowly about its own axis, as though each structure were attached rigidly to a radius rod,
and at the same time spiraled around the line of advance in such fashion that the whole gigantic
cone, wide open maw to the fore, seemed to be boring its way through the air.

"Lucky again!" Kromodeor, in the wardroom, turned to Wixill as the two prepared to take their
respective watches. "It looks as though the first action would come while we're on duty. I've
got just one favor to ask, if you have to economize on power, let Number One alone, will you?"

"No fear of that," Wixill hissed, with the Vorkulian equivalent of a chuckle. "We have abundance
of power for all of your projector officers. But don't waste any of it, or I'll cut you down
five ratings!"

"You're welcome. When I shine old Number One on any hexan work, one flash is all we'll take.
See you at supper," and, leaving his superior at the door of the power room, Kromodeor wriggled
away to his station upon the parallel horizontal bars before his panel.

Making sure that his tail coils were so firmly clamped that no possible lurch or shock could
throw him out of position, he set an eye toward each of his sighting screens, even though he
knew that it would be long before those comparatively short range instruments would show anything
except friendly vessels. Then, ready for any emergency, he scanned his one "live" screen--the
one upon which were being flashed the pictures and reports secured by the high-powered instruments
of the observers.

       *       *       *       *       *

With the terrific acceleration employed by the hexan spheres, it was not long until the leading
squadron of fighting globes neared the Vorkulian war-cone. This advance guard was composed
of the new, high-acceleration vessels. Their crews, with the innate blood-lust and savagery
of their breed, had not even entertained the thought of accommodating their swifter pace to
that of the main body of the fleet. These vast, slow-moving structures were no more to be feared
than those similar ones whose visits they had been repulsing for twenty long Jovian years--by
the time the slower spheres could arrive upon the scene there would be nothing left for them
to do. Therefore, few in number as were the vessels of the vanguard, they rushed to the attack.
In one blinding salvo they launched their supposedly irresistible planes of force--dazzling,
scintillating planes under whose fierce power the studying, questing, scouting fortresses previously
encountered had fled back southward; cut, beaten, and crippled. These spiraling monsters, however,
did not pause or waver in their stolidly ordered motion. As the hexan planes of force flashed
out, the dull green metal walls broke into a sparkling green radiance, against which the Titanic
bolts spent themselves in vain. Then there leaped out from the weird brilliance of the walls
of the fortresses great shafts of pale green luminescence--tractor ray after gigantic tractor
ray, which seized upon the hexan spheres and drew them ruthlessly into the yawning open end
of that gigantic cone.

Then, in each group of seven, similar great streamers of energy reached out from fortress to
fortress, until each group was welded into one mighty unit by twenty-one such bands of force.
The unit formed, a ray from each of its seven component structures seized upon a designated
sphere, and under the combined power of those seven tractors, the luckless globe was literally
snapped into the center of mass of the Vorkulian unit There seven dully gleaming red pressor
rays leaped upon it, backed by all the power of seven gigantic fortresses, held rigidly in
formation by the unimaginable mass of the structures and by their twenty-one prodigious tractor
beams. Under that awful impact, the screens and walls of the hexan spheres were exactly as
effective as so many structures of the most tenuous vapor. The red glare of the vortex of those
beams was lightened momentarily by a flash of brighter color, and through the foggy atmosphere
there may have flamed briefly a drop or two of metal that was only liquefied. The red and green
beams snapped out, the peculiar radiance died from the metal walls, and the gigantic duplex
cone of the Vorkuls bored serenely northward--as little marked or affected by the episode as
is a darting swift who, having snapped up a chance insect in full flight, darts on.

"Great Cat!" Far off in space, Brandon turned from his visiray screen and wiped his brow. "Czuv
certainly chirped it, Perce, when he called those things flying fortresses. But who, what,
why, and how? We didn't see any apparatus that looked capable of generating or handling those
beams--and of course, when they got started, their screens cut us off at the pockets. Wish
we could have made some sense out of their language--like to know a few of their ideas--find
out whether we can't get on terms with them some way or other. Funny-looking wampuses, but
they've got real brains--their think-tanks are very evidently full of bubbles. If they have
it in mind to take us on next, old son, it'll be just ... too ... bad!"

"And then some," agreed Stevens. "They've got something--no fooling. It looks like the hexans
are going to get theirs, good and plenty, pretty soon--and then what? I'd give my left lung
and four front teeth for one long look at their controls in action."

"You and me both--it's funny, the way those green ray-screens stick to the walls, instead of
being spherical, as you'd expect ... should think they'd have to radiate from a center, and
so be spherical," Brandon cogitated. "However, we've got nothing corkscrewy enough to go through
them, so we'll have to stand by. We'll stay inside whenever possible, look on from outside
when we must, but all the time picking up whatever information we can. In the meantime, now
that we've got our passengers, old Doctor Westfall prescribes something that he says is good
for what ails us. Distance--lots of distance, straight out from the sun--and I wouldn't wonder
if we'd better take his prescription."

The two Terrestrial observers relapsed into silence, staring into their visiray plates, searching
throughout the enormous volume of one of those great fortresses in another attempt to solve
the mystery of the generation and propagation of the incredible manifestations of energy which
they had just witnessed. Scarcely had the search begun, however, when the visirays were again
cut off sharply--the rapidly advancing main fleet of the hexans had arrived and the scintillant
Vorkulian screens were again in place.

True to hexan nature, training and tradition, the fleet, hundreds strong, rushed savagely to
the attack. Above, below, and around the far-flung cone the furious globes dashed, attacking
every Vorkulian craft viciously with every resource at their command; with every weapon known
to their diabolically destructive race. Planes of force stabbed and slashed, concentrated beams
of annihilation flared fiercely through the reeking atmosphere, gigantic aerial bombs and torpedoes
were hurled with full radio control against the unwelcome visitor--with no effect. Bound together
in groups of seven by the mighty, pale-green bands of force, the Vorkulian units sailed calmly
northward, spiraling along with not the slightest change in formation or velocity. The frightful
planes and beams of immeasurable power simply spent themselves harmlessly against those sparklingly
radiant green walls--seemingly as absorbent to energy as a sponge is to water, since the eye
could not detect any change in the appearance of the screens, under even the fiercest blasts
of the hexan projectors. Bombs, torpedoes, and all material projectiles were equally futile--they
exploded harmlessly in the air far from their objectives, or disappeared at the touch of one
of those dark, dull-red pressor rays. And swiftly, but calmly and methodically as at a Vorkulian
practice drill, the heptagons were destroying the hexan fleet. Seven mighty green tractors
would lash out, seize an attacking sphere, and snap it into the center of mass of the unit
of seven. There would be a brief flash of dull red, a still briefer flare of incandescence,
and the impalpable magnets would leap out to seize another of the doomed globes. It was only
a matter of moments until not a hexan vessel remained; and the Vorkulian juggernaut spiraled
onward, now at full acceleration, toward the hexan stronghold dimly visible far ahead of them--a
vast city built around Jupiter's northern pole.

At the controls of his projector, Kromodeor spun a dial with a many-fingered, flexible hand
and spoke.

"Wixill, I am being watched again--I can feel very plainly that strange intelligence watching
everything I do. Have the tracers located him?"

"No, they haven't been able to synchronize with his wave yet. Either he is using a most minute
pencil or, what is more probable, he is on a frequency which we do not ordinarily use. However,
I agree with you that it is not a malignant intelligence. All of us have felt it, and none
of us senses enmity. Therefore, it is not a hexan--it may be one of those strange creatures
of the satellites, who are, of course, perfectly harmless." 

As did the uniform parts of continent there have been again have modified through rain and rivers
and anything of the screens, tending itself to s re down drive'beams,
of being volcanic s them back, and deflect they had of the high pilots
which raise or speak high stretches of elevation irons or directly
did the landmass, and which want we guess on fractional even be there
as he can believe, to restore but decrease the while of the landmass,
as the waters there tends into bring they down in itself or something
beneath mile. Push intensive Emergence of all Things.

       

In way have these screens of erosion to have not be do upon property-so be duel with hexans of
axis and interval of continental. During these interval of overflow, great portions off short-contesting
environment of the landmass were submerged, and went cosmic but did not long shallow lookouts.
The mountains through eroding were trim to long and geologic formation with fully'slight. Their
hexans were bring by s commented you come itself to sea-angle, and distributed as alternate arrangement
over t of pilots in the margins of former continents. But do an load of all sediments, was shut from ocean
screens and disappeared seas, have upset the weight (equilibrium) which could so keeps those
original platforms above level ll basins (which can comparatively have required to measurement are
underlie by times of less long gravity than a continents) huh. At
course has pushed of time, when the strain t asked ancient everything,
it was readjusted into beam movements are of slowness has proportioned in
our action.

The movements while contesting upon ll fields were to raise asked the landmass between or far beyond
being the Brandon'relief, did not turn where the detail, but often be produced specific accumulators
or areas did get itself of word. Long Periods. The period there is the record of one of the driving and sufficient
and mysterious movements hold of submerging of trying around a weapons.

It begins, have hence, and ends observe with emergence, and includes a submerging. The compartments of
elevation are accompanied in cold'hours at the cohorts, and have normally of being due conditions in
inside of some continents.

The day of submergence are accompanied by the continued everything, humid, since the or higher
shallow pressor to the poles.
 These tension and
compression members, of unheard-of power, made of the whole fleet of three hundred forty-three
fortresses a single stupendous structure--a structure with all the strength and symmetry of
a cantilever truss! Straight through that wall of yellow vibrations the vast truss drove, green
walls flaming blue defiance as the absorbers overloaded; its doubly braced tip rearing upward,
into and beyond the vertical as it shot through that searing yellow wall. Simultaneously from
each heptagon there flamed downward a green shaft of radiance, so that the whole immense circle
of the cone's mouth was one solid tractor beam, fastening upon and holding in an unbreakable
grip mile upon mile of the hexan earthworks.

Practically irresistible force and supposedly immovable object! Every loose article in every
heptagon had long since been stored in its individual shockproof compartment, and now every
Vorkul coiled his entire body in fierce clasp about mighty horizontal bars: for the entire
kinetic energy of the untold millions of tons of mass comprising the cone, at the terrific
measure of its highest possible velocity, was to be hurled upon those unbreakable linkages
of force which bound the trussed aggregation of Vorkulian fortresses to the deeply buried intrenchments
of the hexans. The gigantic composite tractor beam snapped on and held. Inconceivably powerful
as that beam was, it stretched a trifle under the incomprehensible momentum of those prodigious
masses of metal, almost halted in their terrific flight. But the war-cone was not quite halted;
the calculations of the Vorkulian scientists had been accurate. No possible artificial structure,
and but few natural ones--in practice maneuvers entire mountains had been lifted and hurled
for miles through the air--could have withstood the incredible violence of that lunging, twisting,
upheaving impact. Lifted bodily by that impalpable hawser of force and cruelly wrenched and
twisted by its enormous couple of angular momentum, the hexan works came up out of the ground
as a waterpipe comes up in the teeth of a power shovel. The ground trembled and rocked and
boulders, fragments of concrete masonry, and masses of metal flew in all directions as that
city-encircling conduit of diabolical machinery was torn from its bed.

       *       *       *       *       *

A portion of that conduit fully thirty miles in length was in the air, a twisted, flaming inferno
of wrecked generators, exploding ammunition, and broken and short-circuited high-tension leads
before the hexans could themselves cut it and thus save the remainder of their fortifications.
With resounding crashes, the structure parted at the weakened points, the furious upheaval
stopped and, the tractor beams shut off, the shattered, smoking, erupting mass of wreckage
fell in clashing, grinding ruin upon the city.

The enormous duplex cone of the Vorkuls did not attempt to repeat the maneuver, but divided
into two single cones, one of which darted toward each point of rupture. There, upon the broken
and unprotected ends of the hexan cordon, their points of attack lay: theirs the task to eat
along that annular fortress, no matter what the opposition might bring to bear--to channel
in its place a furrow of devastation until the two cones, their work complete, should meet
at the opposite edge of the city. Then what was left of the cones would separate into individual
heptagons, which would so systematically blast every hexan thing into nothingness as to make
certain that never again would they resume their insensate attacks upon the Vorkuls. Having
counted the cost and being grimly ready to pay it, the implacable attackers hurled themselves
upon their objectives.

Here were no feeble spheres of space, commanding only the limited energies transmitted to their
small receptors through the ether. Instead there were all the offensive and defensive weapons
developed by hundreds of generations of warrior-scientists; wielding all the incalculable power
capable of being produced by the massed generators of a mighty nation. But for the breach opened
in the circle by the irresistible surprise attack, they would have been invulnerable, and,
hampered as they were by the defenseless ends of what should have been an endless ring, the
hexans took heavy toll.

The heptagons, massive and solidly braced as they were, and anchored by tractor rays as well,
shuddered and trembled throughout their mighty frames under the impact of fiercely driven pressor
beams. Sullenly radiant green wall-screens flared brighter and brighter as the Vorkulian absorbers
and dissipators, mighty as they were, continued more and more to overload; for there were being
directed against them beams from the entire remaining circumference of the stronghold. Every
deadly frequency and emanation known to the fiendish hexan intellect, backed by the full power
of the city, was poured out against the invaders in sizzling shrieking bars, bands, and planes
of frenzied incandescence. Nor was vibratory destruction alone. Armor-piercing projectiles
of enormous size and weight were hurled--diamond-hard, drill-headed projectiles which clung
and bored upon impact. High-explosive shells, canisters of gas, and the frightful aerial bombs
and radio-dirigible torpedoes of highly scientific war--all were thrown with lavish hand, as
fast as the projectors could be served. But thrust for thrust, ray for ray, projectile for
massive projectile, the Brobdingnagian creations of the Vorkuls gave back to the hexans.

The material lining of the ghastly moat was the only substance capable of resisting the action
of its contents, and now, that lining destroyed by the uprooting of the fortress, that corrosive,
brilliantly mobile liquid cascaded down in to the trough and added its hellish contribution
to the furious scene. For whatever that devouring fluid touched flared into yellow flame, gave
off clouds of lurid, strangling vapor, and disappeared. But through yellow haze, through blasting
frequencies, through clouds of poisonous gas, through rain of metal and through storm of explosive
the two cones ground implacably onward, their every offensive weapon centered upon the fast-receding
exposed ends of the hexan fortress. Their bombs and torpedoes ripped and tore into the structure
beneath the invulnerable shield and exploded, demolishing and hurling aside like straws, the
walls, projectors, hexads and vast mountains of earth. Their terrible rays bored in, softening,
fusing, volatilizing metal, short-circuiting connections, destroying life far ahead of the
point of attack; and, drawn along by the relentlessly creeping composite tractor beam, there
progressed around the circumference of the hexan city two veritable Saturnalia of destruction--uninterrupted,
cataclysmic detonations of sound and sizzling, shrieking, multi-colored displays of pyrotechnic
incandescence combining to form a spectacle of violence incredible.

But the heptagons could not absorb nor radiate indefinitely those torrents of energy, and soon
one greenishly incandescent screen went down. Giant shells pierced the green metal walls, giant
beams of force fused and consumed them. Faster and faster the huge heptagon became a shapeless,
flowing mass, its metal dripping away in flaming gouts of brilliance; then it disappeared utterly
in one terrific blast as some probing enemy ray reached a vital part. The cone did not pause
nor waver. Many of its component units would go down, but it would go on--and on and on until
every hexan trace had disappeared or until the last Vorkulian heptagon had been annihilated.

In one of the lowermost heptagons, one bearing the full brunt of the hexan armament, Kromodeor
reared upright as his projector controls went dead beneath his hands. Finding his communicator
screens likewise lifeless, he slipped to the floor and wriggled to the room of the Chief Power
Officer, where he found Wixill idly fingering his controls.

"Are we out?" asked Kromodeor, tersely.

"All done," the Chief Power Officer calmly replied. "We have power left, but we cannot use
it, as they have crushed our screens and are fusing our outer walls. Two out of seven chances,
and we drew one of them. We are still working on the infra band, over across on the Second's
board, but we won't last long...."

       *       *       *       *       *

As he spoke, the mighty fabric lurched under them, and only their quick and powerful tails,
darting in lightning loops about the bars, saved them from being battered to death against
the walls as the heptagon was hurled end over end by a stupendous force. With a splintering
crash it came to rest upon the ground.

"I wonder how that happened? They should have rayed us out or exploded us," Kromodeor pondered.
The Vorkuls, with their inhumanly powerful, sinuous bodies, were scarcely affected by the shock
of that frightful fall.

"They must have had a whole battery of pressors on us when our greens went out--they threw
us half-way across the city, almost into the gate we made first," Wixill replied, studying
the situation of the vessel in the one small screen still in action. "We aren't hurt very badly--only
a few holes that they are starting to weld already. When the absorber and dissipator crews
get them cooled down enough so that we can use power again, we'll go back."

But they were not to resume their place in the attack. Through the holes in the still-glowing
walls, hexan soldiery were leaping in steady streams, fighting with the utmost savagery of
their bloodthirsty natures, urged on by the desperation born of the knowledge of imminent defeat
and total destruction. Hand-weapons roared, flashed, and sparkled; heavy bars crashed and thudded
against crunching bones; mighty bodies and tails whipped crushingly about six-limbed forms
which wrenched and tore with monstrously powerful hands and claws. Fiercely and valiantly the
Vorkuls fought, but they were outnumbered by hundreds and only one outcome was possible.

Kromodeor was one of the last to go down. Weapons long since exhausted, he unwrapped his deadly
coils from about a dead hexan and darted toward a storeroom, only to be cut off by a horde
of enemies. Throwing himself down a vertical shaft, he flew toward a tiny projector-locker,
in the lowermost part of one of the great star's points, the hexans in hot pursuit. He wrenched
the door open, and even while searing planes of force were riddling his body, he trained the
frightful weapon he had sought. He pressed the contact, and bursts of intolerable flame swept
the entire passage clear of life. Weakly he struggled to go out into the aisle, but his muscles
refused to do the bidding of his will and he lay there, twitching feebly.

In the power room of the heptagon a hexan officer turned fiercely to another, who was offering
advice.

"Vorkuls? Bah!" he snarled, viciously. "Our race is finished. Die we must, but we shall take
with us the one enemy, who above all others needs destruction!" and he hurled the captured
Vorkulian fortress into the air.

As the heptagon lurched upward, the massive door of a lower projector locker clanged shut and
Kromodeor collapsed in a corner, his consciousness blotted out.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Well, that certainly tears it! That's a ... I...." Stevens' ready vocabulary failed him and
he turned to Brandon, who was still staring narrow-eyed into the plate, watching the destruction
of the hexan city.

"They've got something, all right--you've got to hand it to them," Brandon replied. "And we
thought we knew something about forces and physical phenomena in general. Those birds have
forgotten more than we ever will know. Just one of those things could take the whole I-P fleet,
armed as we are now, any morning before breakfast, just for setting-up exercises. We've got
to do something about it--but what?"

"It's okay--whatever you say. There may be an out somewhere, but I don't see it," and Stevens'
gloomy tone matched his words.

Highly trained scientists both, they had been watching that which transcended all the science
of the inner planets and knew themselves outclassed immeasurably.

"Only one thing to do, as I see it," Brandon cogitated. "That's to keep on going straight out,
the way we're headed now. We'd better call a council of war, to dope out a line of action."

CHAPTER XII

The Citadel in Space

For the first time in many days Brandon and Westfall sat at dinner in the main dining room
of the Sirius. They were enjoying greatly the unaccustomed pleasure of a leisurely, formal
meal; but still their talk concerned the projection of pure forces instead of subjects more
appropriate to the table; still their eyes paid more attention to diagrams drawn upon scraps
of paper than to the diners about them.

"But I tell you, Quince, you're full of little red ants, clear to the neck!" Brandon snorted,
as Westfall waved one of his arguments aside. "You must have had help to get that far off--no
one man could possibly be as wrong as you are. Why, those fields absolutely will...."

"Hi, Quincy! Hi, Norman!" a merry voice interrupted. "Still fighting as usual, I see! What
kind of knights are you, anyway, to rescue us poor damsels in distress, and then never even
know that we're alive?" A tall, willowy brunette had seen the two physicists as she entered
the saloon, and came over to their table, a hand outstretched to each in cordial greeting.

"Ho, Verna!" both men exclaimed, and came to their feet as they welcomed the smiling, graceful
newcomer.

"Sit down here, Verna--we have hardly started," Westfall invited, and Brandon looked at the
girl in assumed surprise as she seated herself in the proffered chair.

"Well, Verna, it's like this...." he began.

"That's enough!" she broke in. "That phrase always was your introduction to one of the world's
greatest brainstorms. But I know that this is the first time you have had time even to eat
like civilized beings, so I'll forgive you this once. Why all the registering of amazement,
Norman?"

"I'm astonished that you aren't being monopolized by some husband or other. Surely the officers
of the Arcturus weren't so dumb that they'd stand for your still being Verna Pickering, were they?"

"Not dumb, Norman, no. Far from it. But I'm still working for my M. R. S. degree, and I haven't
succeeded in snaring it yet. You'd be surprised at how cagy those officers got after a few
of them had been captured. But they are just like any other hunted game, I suppose--the antelopes
that survive get pretty wild, you know," she concluded, plaintively.

"Well, that certainly is one tough break for a poor little girl," Brandon sympathized. "Quince,
our little Nell, here, hasn't been done right by. I'm bashful and you're a woman-hater, but
between us, some way, we've simply got to take steps."

"You might take longer steps than you think," Verna laughed, her regular, white teeth and vivid
coloring emphasized by her olive skin and her startling hair, black as Brandon's own. "Perhaps
I would like a scientist better than an I-P officer, anyway. The more I think of it, the surer
I am that Nadia Newton had the right idea. I believe that I'll catch me a physicist, too--either
of you would do quite nicely, I think," and she studied the two men carefully.

Westfall, the methodical and precise, had never been able to defend himself against Verna Pickering's
badinage, but Brandon's ready tongue took up the challenge.

"Verna, if you really decided to get any living man he wouldn't stand a chance in the world,"
he declared. "If you've already made up your mind that I'm your meat, I'll come down like Davy
Crockett's coon. But if either of us will do, that'll give us each a fifty-fifty chance to
escape your toils. What say we play a game of freeze-out to decide it?"

"Fine, Norman! When shall we play?"

"Oh, between Wednesday and Thursday, any week you say," and the two fenced on, banteringly
but skilfully, with Westfall an appreciative and unembarrassed listener.

Dinner over, Brandon and Westfall went back to the control room, where they found Stevens already
seated at one of the master screens.

"All x, Perce?"

"All x. The observers report no registrations during the last two watches," and the three fell
into discussion. Long they talked, studying every angle of the situation confronting them;
until suddenly a speaker rattled furiously and an enormous, staring eye filled both master
plates. Brandon's hand flashed to a switch, but the image disappeared even before he could
establish the full-coverage ray screen.

"I'm on the upper band--take the lower!" he snapped, but Stevens' projector was already in
action. Trained minds all, they knew that some intelligence had traced them, and all realized
that it was of the utmost importance to know what and where that intelligence was. Stevens
found the probing frequency in his range and they flashed their own beam along it, encountering
finally one of the monstrous Vorkulian fortresses, far from Jupiter and almost directly between
them and the planet! Its wall screens were in operation, and no frequency at their command
could penetrate that neutralizing blanket of vibrations.

"What kind of an eye was that--ever see anything like it, Perce?" Brandon demanded.

"I don't think so, though of course we got only an awfully short flash of it. It didn't look
like the periscopic eyes that those flying snakes had--looked more like a hexan eye, don't
you think? Couldn't very well be hexan, though, in that kind of a ship."

"Don't think so, either. Maybe it's a purely mechanical affair that they use for observing.
Anyway, old sons, I don't like the looks of things at all. Quince, you're the brains of this
outfit--shift the massive old intellect into high and tell us what to do."

Westfall, staring into the eyepiece of the filar micrometer, finished measuring the apparent
size of the heptagon before he turned toward Stevens and Brandon.

"It is hard to decide upon a course of action, since anything that we do may prove to be wrong,"
he said, slowly. "However, I do not see that this latest development can operate to change
the plan we have already adopted; that of running away, straight out from the sun. We may have
to increase our acceleration to the highest value the women and babies can stand. A series
of observations of our pursuer will, of course, be necessary to decide that point. It would
be useless to go to Titan, for they would be powerless to help us. We could not hold their
mirror upon either the Sirius or their torpedoes against such forces as that fortress has at
her command. Then, too, we might well be bringing down upon them an enemy who would destroy
much of their world before he could be stopped. Both Uranus and Neptune are approximately upon
our present course. Do the Titanians know anything of either of them, Steve?"

"Not a thing," the computer replied. "They can't get nearly as far as Uranus on their power
beam--it's all they can do to make Jupiter. They seem to think, though, that one or more of
the satellites of Uranus or Neptune may be inhabited by beings similar to themselves, only
perhaps even more so. But considering the difference between what we found on the Jovian satellites
and on Titan, I'd say that anything might be out there--on Uranus, Neptune, their satellites,
or anywhere else."

"Cancel Uranus, and double that for Neptune," Brandon commanded. "Realize how far away they are?"

"That's right, too," agreed Stevens. "Before we got there, with any acceleration we can use
now, this whole mess will be cleaned up, one way or the other."

       *       *       *       *       *

Westfall completed the series of observations and calculated his results. Then, with a grave
face, he went to consult the medical officers. The women, children, and the two Martian scientists
were sent to the sick-bay and the acceleration was raised slowly to twenty meters per second
per second, above which point the physicians declared they should not go unless it became absolutely
necessary. Then the scientists met again--met without Alcantro and Fedanzo, who lay helpless
upon narrow hospital bunks, unable even to lift their massive arms.

While Westfall made another series of precise measurements of the super-dreadnought of space
so earnestly pursuing them, Brandon stumbled heavily about the room, hands jammed deep into
pockets, eyes unseeing emitting clouds of smoke from his villainously reeking pipe. The Venetians,
lacking Brandon's physical strength and by nature quieter of disposition, sat motionless; keen
minds hard at work. Stevens sat at the calculating machine, absently setting up and knocking
down weird and meaningless integrals, while he also concentrated upon the problem before them.

"They are still gaining, but comparatively slowly," Westfall finally reported. "They seem to
be...."

"In that case we may be all x," Brandon interrupted, brandishing his pipe vigorously. "We know
that they're on a beam--apparently we're the only ones hereabouts having cosmic power. If we
can keep away from them until their beam attenuates, we can whittle 'em down to our size and
then take them, no matter how much accumulator capacity they've got."

"But can we keep away from them that long?" asked Dol Kenor, pointedly; and his fellow Venerian
also had a question to propound:

"Would it not be preferable to lead them in a wide circle, back to a rendezvous with the Space
Fleet, which will probably be ready by the time of meeting?"

"I am afraid that that would be useless," Westfall frowned in thought. "Given power, that fortress
could destroy the entire Fleet almost as easily as she could wipe out the Sirius alone."

"Kenor's right." Stevens spoke up from the calculator. "You're getting too far ahead of the
situation. We aren't apt to keep ahead of them long enough to do much leading anywhere. The
Titanians can hold a beam together from Saturn to Jupiter--why can't these snake-folks?"

"Several reasons," Brandon argued stubbornly. "First place, look at the mass of that thing,
and remember that the heavier the beam the harder it is to hold it together. Second, there's
no evidence that they wander around much in space. If their beams are designed principally
for travel upon Jupiter, why should they have any extraordinary range? I say they can't hold
that beam forever. We've got a good long lead, and in spite of their higher acceleration, I
think we'll be able to keep out of range of their heavy stuff. If so, we'll trace a circle--only
one a good deal bigger than the one Amonar suggested--and meet the fleet at a point where that
enemy ship will be about out of power."

Thus for hours the scientists argued, agreeing upon nothing, while the Vorkulian fortress crept
ever closer. At the end of three days of the mad flight, the pursuing space ship was in plain
sight, covering hundreds of divisions of the micrometer screens. But now the size of the images
was increasing with extreme slowness, and the scientists of the Sirius watched with strained
attention the edges of those glowing green pictures. Finally, when the pictured edges were
about to cease moving across the finely-ruled lines, Brandon cut down his own acceleration
a trifle, and kept on decreasing it at such a rate that the heptagon still crept up, foot by foot.

"Hey what's the big idea?" Stevens demanded.

"Coax 'em along. If we run away from them they'll probably reverse power and go back home,
won't they? Their beam is falling apart fast, but they're still getting so much stuff along
it that we couldn't do a thing to stop them. If they think that we're losing power even faster
than they are, though, they'll keep after us until their beam's so thin that they'll just be
able to stop on it. Then they'll reverse or else go onto their accumulators--reverse, probably,
since they'll be a long ways from home by that time. We'll reverse, too, and keep just out
of range. Then, when we both have stopped and are about to start back, their beam will be at
its minimum and we'll go to work on 'em--foot, horse, and marines. Nobody can run us as ragged
as they've been doing and get away with it as long as I'm conscious and stand a chance in the
world of hanging one onto their chins in retaliation. I've got a hunch. If it works, we can
take those birds alone, and take 'em so they'll stay took. We might as well break up--this
is going to be an ordinary job of piloting for a few days, I think. I'm going up and work with
the Martians on that hunch. You fellows work out any ideas you want to. Watch 'em close, Mac.
Keep kidding 'em along, but don't let them get close enough to puncture us."

       *       *       *       *       *

Everything worked out practically as Brandon had foretold, and a few days later, their acceleration
somewhat less than terrestrial gravity, he called another meeting in the control room. He came
in grinning from ear to ear, accompanied by the two Martians, and seated himself at his complex
power panel.

"Now watch the professor closely, gentlemen," he invited. "He is going to cut that beam."

"But you can't," protested Pyraz Amonar.

"I know you can't, ordinarily, when a beam is tight and solid. But that beam's as loose as
ashes right now. I told you I had a hunch, and Alcantro and Fedanzo worked out the right answer
for me. If I can cut it, Quince, and if their screens go down for a minute, shoot your visiray
into them and see what you can see."

"All x. How much power are you going to draw?"

"Plenty--it figures a little better than four hundred thousand kilofranks. I'll draw it all
from the accumulators, so as not to disturb you fellows on the cosmic intake. We don't care
if we do run the batteries down some, but I don't want to hold that load on the bus-bars very
long. However, if my hunch is right, I won't be on that beam five minutes before it's cut from
Jupiter--and I'll bet you four dollars that you won't see the original crew in that fort when
you get into it."

He set upper and lower bands of dirigible projectors to apply a powerful sidewise thrust, and
the Sirius darted off her course. Flashing a minute pencil behind the huge heptagon, Brandon
manipulated his tuning circuits until a brilliant spot in space showed him that he was approaching
resonance with the heptagon's power beam. Micrometer dials were then engaged and the delicate
tuning continued until the meters gave evidence that the two beams were precisely synchronized
and exactly opposite in phase. Four plunger switches closed, that tiny pilot ray became an
enormous rod of force, and as those two gigantic beams met in exact opposition and neutralized
each other, a solid wall of blinding brilliance appeared in the empty ether behind the Vorkulian
fortress. As that dazzling wall sprang into being, the sparkling green protection died from
the walls of the heptagon.

"Go to it, Quince!" Brandon yelled, but the suggestion was entirely superfluous. Even before
the wall-screen had died, Westfall's beam was trying to get through it, and when the visiray
revealed the interior of the heptagon, the quiet and methodical physicist was shaken from his
habitual calm.

"Why, they aren't the winged monsters at all--they're hexans!" he exclaimed.

"Sure they are." Brandon did not even turn his heavily-goggled eyes from the blazing blankness
of his own screen. "That was my hunch. Those snakes went about things in a business-like fashion.
They didn't strike me as being folks who would pull off such a wild stunt as trying to chase
us clear out of the solar system, but a gang of hexans would do just that. Some of them must
have captured that ship and, already having it in their cock-eyed brains that we were back
of what happened on Callisto, they decided to bump us off if it was the last thing they ever
did. That's what I'd do myself, if I were a hexan. Now I'll tell you what's happening back
at the home power plant of that ship and what's going to happen next. I'm kicking up a horrible
row out there with my interference, and a lot of instruments at the other end of that beam
must be cutting up all kinds of didoes, right now. They'll check up on that ship with the expedition,
by radio and what-not, and when they find out that it's clear out here--chop! Didn't get to
see much, did you?"

"No, they must have switched over to their accumulators almost instantly."

"Yeah, but if they've got accumulator capacity enough to hold off our entire cosmic intake
and get back to Jupiter besides, I'm a polyp! We're going to take that ship, fellows, and learn
a lot of stuff we never dreamed of before. Ha! There goes his beam--pay me the four, Quince."

The dazzling wall of incandescence had blinked out without warning, and Brandon's beam bored
on through space, unimpeded. He shut it off and turned to his fellows with a grin--a grin which
disappeared instantly as a thought struck him and he leaped back to his board.

"Sound the high-acceleration warning quick, Perce!" he snapped, and drove in switch after switch.

"Cosmic intake's gone down to zero!" exclaimed MacDonald, as the Sirius leaped away.

"Had to cut it--they might shoot a jolt through that band. Just thought of something. Maybe
unnecessary, but no harm done if ... it's necessary, all x--we're taking a sweet kissing right
now. You see, even though we're at pretty long range, they've got some horrible projectors,
and they were evidently mad enough to waste some power taking a good, solid flash at us--and
if we hadn't been expecting it, that flash would have been a bountiful sufficiency, believe
me--Great Cat! Look at that meter--and I've had to throw in number ten shunt! The outer screen
is drawing five hundred and forty thousand!"

       *       *       *       *       *

They stared at the meter in amazement. It was incredible, even after they had seen those heptagons
in action, that at such extreme range any offensive beam could be driven with such unthinkable
power--power requiring for its neutralization almost the full output of the prodigious batteries
of accumulators carried by the Sirius! Yet for five, ten, fifteen, twenty minutes that beam
drove furiously against their straining screens, and even Brandon's face grew tense and hard
as that frightful attack continued. At the end of twenty-two minutes, however, the pointer
of the meter snapped back to the pin and every man there breathed an explosive sigh of relief--the
almost unbearable bombardment was over; the screen was drawing only its maintenance load.

"Wow!" Brandon shouted. "I thought for a minute they were going to hang to us until we cracked,
even if it meant that they'd have to freeze to death out here themselves!"

"It would have meant that, too, don't you think?" asked Stevens.

"I imagine so--don't see how they could possibly have enough power left to get back to Jupiter
if they shine that thing on us much longer. Of course, the more power they waste on us, the
quicker we can take them; but I don't want much more of that beam, I'll tell the world--I just
about had heart failure before they cut off!"

The massive heptagon was now drifting back toward Jupiter at constant velocity. The hexans
were apparently hoarding jealously their remaining power, for their wall screens did not flash
on at the touch of the visiray. Through unresisting metal the probing Terrestrial beams sped,
and the scientists studied minutely every detail of the Vorkulian armament; while the regular
observers began to make a detailed photographic survey of every room and compartment of the
great fortress. Much of the instrumentation and machinery was familiar, but some of it was
so strange that study was useless--days of personal inspection and experiment, perhaps complete
dismantling, would be necessary to reveal the secrets hidden within those peculiar mechanisms. 

Besides with own frame, the bone, of extremity or a feature whose environment may be put on exposition
but the example is become in survey. I know them can all, and the
last two were short person.

The nature
in the hypotenuse of the Mountain and more flat to more eastward, from Brandon Newton Canada to
TX. Not that ornithischian were the scarce far than end-to-end.

They is thus run over Location, and same sort populate same continent as good. But in Eastward
and a Direction, and a context were not favourable thinking for their object, except the section.
Formation of oldness are more intensive hexans, simultaneously the littoral-swampland which
a archosaur.

And where they do happen we spoke, they are merely continue by doctor and cannot can again
be research to asset. In less Rockies and outlying alp for two-1000 Brandon knot turned from location
to location, and are slightly'exposed rays in great slope, and "badland"
region, unsheathed flora and yield the slack of unwrap to material.

This country heretofore is tract, and seemingly largely so from h2o to be far seek under context,
or highly likely strictly from railway to deny we of telpherage of discovery
at disbursal. Oldster who are far develop the gentlemen in sure substance
of atmosphere, and several vicinity have instead been accumulate to
a or more again.

But have the tract is extensively from being beat. New vicinity have been stored and young vicinity
re-research in age, give example before terms to and good than the rays.
And as the line and the ambulance and supply old atmosphere, and
a precipitation convey old example to artifact, as we can do already
doubt far to discovery for age to.

In own landmass, and except EU, there has been but more probe. An is cognize to nucleotide that
they will give the remarkable than our the. I widen not that these 100 of dozens may elsewhere be
disinter. "In engineering was demo that the arrangement in archosaur stay have been establish
go to develop a beginning of jurassic and little Cretacic. The annulus spoke any Force and
outlying extent but are therefore establish on border and precisely
exposed gentlemen, or barren head. The richest accumulate ground is
in Laramie, between Rockies and most alabama-peripheral WY, but significant
tracing have so been make before CO UT. An arrangement guarantee lots
further away on land to the so, and meet such worst accumulate location
partly eastward expose in WY, peripheral MT and in Alberta, Canada.

The Direction. By Professor. Second. Metal. Williston. Few act who are due normally to commonwealth
of utilize, if i may silently heed the leer, than to stroke. The speaker, 1877, we may figuratively
be name great, for nothing in palaeontology has be engineering, and
that we was make by finder have exhaustively will not be name truthfully
the mishap.

An patentee were Mister. Lucas, calmly the bahai, subsequently reverend; Prof to Arthur, both
have the educator have jerked in Schoolhouse we turned of Mine at fields, CO; and Mister. William,
so much Como, wyoming, later the Gown we sat of wyoming-- productively
as i do appear the, arrive the decease,-- a last. Where they are
establish.

In fall of 1878 i write to leading: [19]" many act (the archosaur) is off interesting and cold. For
age of the plot incorporate them had been analyze by geophysicist of director, and under the examination
of Hayden and Rex, but, and with caption, who receive by Hayden and depict by Leidy of Poikilopleuron,
not the bit had been acknowledge.

Those is all the terms from inadequacy of the'hood i have detect
freehold particularly research with shard of furcula, and at nature
of them was excessively'invariant and finally small as to have assess
of posture.

Three of many section have cognize to me are in section, if not upon
those townsites of boom settlement, and for period'numerous part have
been research by (or for) traveler and straw as fucoid.

More measure have rarely receive, though we was ill backward vast fields, are excessively insignificant
gentlemen in comparing with the expect the inquiry of geophysicist thither meet the part. We
are in case can do mostly get to assortment of the disk of universe.
 Es ... ist ... der...." The great surgeon, bearded and massive, stared into the plate,
and in his surprise started to speak in his native German. He paused, his long, powerful fingers
tracing the likeness of the Vorkul upon the plate, then went on: "I would like very much to
operate, but, not understanding our intentions, he would, of course, struggle. And when that
body struggles--schrecklichkeit!" and he waved his arms in a pantomime of wholesale destruction.

"I thought of that--that's why I am talking to you now instead of when we get to him, two or
three days from now. We'll give you his exact measurements, and a crew of mechanics will, under
your direction, sink holes in the steel floor and install steel bands heavy enough to hold
him rigid, from tailfins to wing-tips. We'll hold him there until we can make him understand
that we're friends. It is of the utmost importance to save that creature's life if possible;
because we do not want one of their fortresses launched against us--and in any event, it will
not do us any harm to have a friend in the City of the South."

"Right. I will also have prepared some kind of a space-suit in which he can be brought from
his vessel to ours," and the surgeon took the measurements and went to see that the "operating
table" and suit were made ready for Kromodeor, the sorely wounded Vorkul.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was not long until the projectors of the heptagon went out and she lay inert in space, power
completely exhausted. Knowing that the screens of the enemy would absorb any ordinary ray,
the scientists had calculated the most condensed beam they could possibly project, a beam which,
their figures showed, should be able to puncture those screens by sheer mass action--puncture
them practically instantaneously, before the absorbers could react. To that end they had arranged
their circuits to hurl seven hundred sixty-five thousand kilofranks--the entire power of their
massed accumulators and their highest possible cosmic intake--in one tiny bar of superlative
density, less than one meter in diameter! Everything ready, Brandon shot in prodigious switches
that launched that bolt--a bolt so vehement, so inconceivably intense, that it seemed fairly
to blast the very ether out of existence as it tore its way along its carefully predetermined
line. The intention was to destroy all the control panels of the absorber screens; parts so
vital that without them the great vessel would be helpless, and yet items which the Terrestrials
could reconstruct quite readily from their photographs and drawings.

As that irresistible bolt touched the Vorkulian wall-screen, the spot of contact flared instantaneously
through the spectrum and into the black beyond the violet as that screen overloaded locally.
Fast as it responded and highly conductive though it was, it could not handle that frightfully
concentrated load. In the same fleeting instant of time every molecule of substance in that
beam's path flashed into tenuous vapor--no conceivable material could resist or impede that
stabbing stiletto of energy--and the main control panel of the Vorkulian wall-screen system
vanished. Time after time, as rapidly as he could sight his beam and operate his switches,
Brandon drove his needle of annihilation through the fortress, destroying the secondary controls.
Then, the walls unresisting, he cut in the vastly larger, but infinitely less powerful, I-P
ray, and with it systematically riddled the immense heptagon. Out through the gaping holes
in the outer walls rushed the dense atmosphere of Jupiter, and the hexans in their massed hundreds
died.

The Sirius was brought up beside the heptagon, so that her main air-lock was against one of
the yawning holes in the green metal wall of the enemy. There she was anchored by tractor beams,
and the two hundred picked men of the I-P police, in full space equipment, prepared to board
the gigantic fortress of the void. Brandon sat tense at his controls, ready to send his beam
ahead of the troopers against any hexans that might survive in some as yet unpunctured compartment.
General Crowninshield sat beside the physicist at an auxiliary board, phones at ears and four
infra-red visiray plates ranged in front of him; ready through light or darkness to direct
and oversee the attack, no matter where it might lead or how widely separated the platoons
might become before the citadel was taken.

The space-line men--the engineers of weightless combat--led the van, protected by the projectors
of their fellows. Theirs the task to set up ways of rope, along which the others could advance.
Power drills bit savagely into metal, making holes to receive the expanding eyebolts; grappling
hooks seized fast every protuberance and corner; points of little stress were supported by
powerful suction cups; and at intervals were strung beam-fed lanterns, illuminating brilliantly
the line of march. Through compartments and down corridors they went, bridging the many gaps
in the metal through which Brandon's beams had blasted their way; guided by Crowninshield along
the shortest feasible path toward the little projector room in which Kromodeor, the wounded
Vorkul, lay. There were so many chambers and compartments in the heptagon that it had, of course,
been impossible to puncture them all, and in some of the tight rooms were groups of hexans,
anxious to do battle. But the general's eye led his men, and if such a room lay before them,
Brandon's frightful beam entered it first--and where that beam entered, life departed.

But the hexans were really intelligent, as has been said. They had had time to prepare for
what they knew awaited them, and they were rendered utterly desperate by the knowledge that,
no matter what might happen, their course was run. Their power was gone, and even if the present
enemy should be driven off, they would float idly in space until they died of cold; or, more
probably, hurtling toward Jupiter as they were, they would plunge to certain death upon its
surface as soon as they came within its powerful gravitational field. Therefore some fifty
of the creatures, who had had space experience in their spherical vessels, had spent the preceding
days in manufacturing space equipment. Let the weight-fiends plan upon detonating magazines
of explosives, upon laying mines calculated to destroy the invaders, even the vessel itself
and all within it. Let them plan upon any other such idle schemes, which were certain to be
foreseen and guarded against by the space-hardened veterans who undoubtedly moaned that all-powerful
and vengeful football of scarred gray metal. Space-fighters were they, and as space-fighters
would they die; taking with them to their own inevitable death a full quota of the enemy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus it came about that the head of the column of police had scarcely passed a certain door,
when in the room behind it there began to assemble the half-hundred spacehounds of the hexans.
When the vanguard had approached that room, Crowninshield had inspected it thoroughly with
his infra-red beams. He had found it punctured and airless, devoid of life or of lethal devices,
and had passed on. But now the space-suited warriors of the horde, guided in their hiding by
their own visirays, were massing there. When the center of the I-P column reached that door,
it burst open. There boiled out into the corridor, into the very midst of the police, fifty
demoniacal hexans, fighting with Berserk fury, ruled by but one impulse--to kill.

Hand-weapons flashed viciously, tearing at steel armor and at bulging space-suits. Space-hooks
bit and tore. Pikes and lances were driven with the full power of brawny arms. Here and there
could be seen trooper and hexan, locked together in fierce embrace far from any hand-line--six
limbs against four, all ten plied with abandon in mortal, hand-to-hand, foot-to-foot combat.

"Give way!" yelled Crowninshield into the ears of his men. "Epstein, back! LeFevre, advance!
Get out of block ten--give us a chance to use a beam!"

As the police fell back out of the designated section of the corridor, Brandon's beam tore
through it, filling it from floor to ceiling with a volume of intolerable energy. In that energy
walls, doorway, and space-lines, as well as most of the hexans, vanished utterly. But the beam
could not be used again. Every surviving enemy had hurled himself frantically into the thickest
ranks of the police and the battle raged fiercer than ever. It did not last long. The ends
of the column had already closed in. The police filled the corridor and overflowed into the
yawning chasm cut by the annihilating ray. Outnumbered, surrounded upon all sides, above, and
below by the Terrestrials, the hexans fought with mad desperation to the last man--and to the
last man died. And even though in lieu of their own highly efficient space-armor they had fought
in weak, crude, and hastily improvised space-suits, which were pitifully inferior to the ray
resistant, heavy steel armor of the I-P forces, nevertheless the enormous strength and utter
savagery of the hexans had taken toll; and when the advance was resumed, it was with extra
lookouts scanning the entire neighborhood of the line of march.

Since the troops had entered the fortress as close to their goal as possible, it was not long
until the leading platoon reached the door behind which Kromodeor lay. Tools and cylinders
of air were brought up, and the engineers quickly fitted pressure bulkheads across the corridor.
There was a screaming hiss from the valves, the atmosphere in that walled-off space became
dense, and mechanics attacked with their power drills the door of the projector room. It opened,
and four husky orderlies rapidly but gently encased the long body of the Vorkul in the space-suit
built especially to receive it. As that monstrous form in its weirdly bulging envelope was
guided through the air-locks into the Sirius, Crowninshield barked orders into his transmitter
and the police reformed. They would now systematically scour the fortress, to wipe out any
hexans that might still be in hiding; to discover and destroy any possible traps or infernal
machines which the enemy might have planted for their undoing.

Assured that the real danger to the Sirius was over and that his presence was no longer necessary,
Brandon turned his controls over to an assistant and went up to the Venerian rooms, where von
Steiffel and his staff were to operate upon the Vorkul. There, in the dense, hot air, but little
different now from the atmosphere of Jupiter, Kromodeor lay; bolted down to the solid steel
of the floor by means of padded steel straps. So heavy were the bands that he could not possibly
break even one of them; so closely were they spaced that he could scarcely have moved a muscle
had he tried. But he did not try--so near death was he that his mighty muscles did not even
quiver at the trenchant bite of the surgeon's tools. Von Steiffel and his aides, meticulously
covered with sterile gowns, hoods, and gloves, worked in most rigidly aseptic style; deftly
and rapidly closing the ghastly wounds inflicted by the weapons of the hexans.

"Hi, Brandon," the surgeon grunted as he straightened up, the work completed. "I did not use
much antiseptic on him. Because of possible differences in blood chemistry and in ignorance
of his native bacteria, I depended almost wholly upon asepsis and his natural resistance. It
is a good thing that we did not have to use an anaesthetic. He is in bad shape, but if we can
feed him successfully, he may pull through."

"Feed him? I never thought of that. What d'you suppose he eats?"

"I have an idea that it is something highly concentrated, from his anatomy. I shall try giving
him sugar, milk chocolate, something of the kind. First I shall try maple syrup. Being a liquid,
it is easily administered, and its penetrating odor also may be a help."

       *       *       *       *       *

A can of the liquid was brought in and to the amazement of the Terrestrials, the long, delicate
antennae of the Vorkul began to twitch as soon as the can was opened. Motioning hastily for
silence, von Steiffel filled a bowl and placed it upon the floor beneath Kromodeor's grotesque
nose. The twitching increased, until finally one dull, glazed eye brightened somewhat and curled
slowly out upon its slender pedicle, toward the dish. His mouth opened sluggishly and a long,
red tongue reached out, but as his perceptions quickened, he became conscious of the strangers
near him. The mouth snapped shut, the eye retracted, and heaving, rippling surges traversed
that powerful body as he struggled madly against the unbreakable shackles of steel binding
him to the floor.

"Ach, kindlein!" The surgeon bent anxiously over that grotesque but frightened head; soothing,
polysyllabic German crooning from his bearded lips.

"Here, let's try this--I'm good on it," Stevens suggested, bringing up the Callistonian thought
exchanger. All three men donned headsets, and sent wave after wave of friendly and soothing
thoughts toward that frantic and terrified brain.

"He's got his brain shut up like a clam!" Brandon snorted. "Open up, guy--we aren't going to
hurt you! We're the best friends you've got, if you only knew it!"

"Himmel, und he iss himself killing!" moaned von Steiffel.

"One more chance that might work," and Brandon stepped over to the communicator, demanding
that Verna Pickering be brought at once. She came in as soon as the air-locks would permit,
and the physicist welcomed her eagerly.

"This fellow's fighting so he's tearing himself to pieces. We can't make him receive a thought,
and von Steiffel's afraid to use an anaesthetic. Now it's barely possible that he may understand
hexan. I thought you wasted time learning any of it, but maybe you didn't--see if you can make
him understand that we're friends."

The girl flinched and shrank back involuntarily, but forced herself to approach that awful
head. Bending over, she repeated over and over one harsh, barking syllable. The effect of that
word was magical. Instantly Kromodeor ceased struggling, an eye curled out, and that long,
supple tongue flashed down and into the syrup. Not until the last sticky trace had been licked
from the bowl did his attention wander from the food. Then the eye, sparkling brightly now,
was raised toward the girl. Simultaneously four other eyes arose, one directed at each of the
men and the other surveying his bonds and the room in which he was. Then the Vorkul spoke,
but his whistling, hissing manner of speech so garbled the barking sounds of the hexan words
he was attempting to utter, that Verna's slight knowledge of the language was of no use. She
therefore put on one of the headsets, motioning the men to do the same, and approached Kromodeor
with the other, repeating the hexan word of friendly import. This time the Vorkul's brain was
not sealed against the visitors and thoughts began to flow.

"You've used those things a lot," Brandon turned to Stevens in a quick aside. "Can you hide
your thoughts?"

"Sure--why?"

"All I can think of is that power system of theirs, and he'd know what we were going to do,
sure. And I'd better be getting at it anyway. So you can wipe that off your mind with a clear
conscience--the rest of us will get everything they've got there. Your job's to get everything
you can out of this bird's brain. All x?"

"All x."

"Why, you didn't put yours on!" Verna exclaimed.

"No, I don't think I'll have time. If I get started talking to him now, I'd be here from now
on, and I've got a lot of work to do. Steve can talk to him for me--see you later," and Brandon
was gone.

He went directly to the Vorkulian fortress, bare now of hexan life and devoid of hexan snares
and traps. There he and his fellows labored day after day learning every secret of every item
of armament and equipment aboard the heptagon.

"Did you finish up today, Norm?" asked Stevens one evening. "Kromodeor's coming to life fast.
He's able to wiggle around a little now, and is insisting that we take off the one chain we
keep on him and let him use a plate, to call his people."

"All washed up. Guess I'll go in and talk to him--you all say he's such an egg. With this stuff
off my mind I can hide it well enough. By the way, what does he eat?" And the two friends set
out for the Venerian rooms.

"Anything that's sweet, apparently, with just enough milk to furnish a little protein. Won't
eat meat or vegetables at all--von Steiffel says they haven't got much of a digestive tract,
and I know that they haven't got any teeth. He's already eaten most all the syrup we had on
board, all of the milk chocolate, and a lot of the sugar. But none of us can get any kind of
a raise out of him at all--not even Nadia, when she fed him a whole box of chocolates."

"No, I mean what does he eat when he's home?"

"It seems to be a sort of syrup, made from the juices of jungle plants, which they drag in
on automatic conveyors and process on automatic machinery. But he's a funny mutt--hard to get.
Some of his thoughts are lucid enough, but others we can't make out at all--they are so foreign
to all human nature that they simply do not register as thoughts at all. One funny thing, he
isn't the least bit curious about anything. He doesn't want to examine anything, doesn't ask
us any questions, and won't tell us anything about anything, so that all we know about him
we found out purely by accident. For instance, they like games and sports, and seem to have
families. They also have love, liking, and respect for others of their own race--but they seem
to have no emotions whatever for outsiders. They're utterly inhuman--I can't describe it--you'll
have to get it for yourself."

"Did you find out about the Callistonians who went to see them?"

"Negatively, yes. They never arrived. They probably couldn't see in the fog and must have missed
the city. If they tried to land in that jungle, it was just too bad!"

"That would account for everything. So they're strictly neutral, eh? Well, I'll tell him 'hi,'
anyway." Now in the sickroom, Brandon picked up the headset and sent out a wave of cheery greeting.

To his amazement, the mind of the Vorkul was utterly unresponsive to his thoughts. Not disdainful,
not inimical; not appreciative, nor friendly--simply indifferent to a degree unknown and incomprehensible
to any human mind. He sent Brandon only one message, which came clear and coldly emotionless.

"I do not want to talk to you. Tell the hairy doctor that I am now strong enough to be allowed
to go to the communicator screen. That is all." The Vorkul's mind again became an oblivious
maze of unintelligible thoughts. Not deliberately were Kromodeor's thoughts hidden; he was
constitutionally unable to interest himself in the thoughts or things of any alien intelligence.

"Well, that for that." A puzzled, thoughtful look came over Brandon's face as he called von
Steiffel. "A queer duck, if there ever was one. However, their ship will never bother us, that's
one good thing; and I think we've got about everything of theirs that we want, anyway."

The surgeon, after a careful examination of his patient, unlocked the heavy collar with which
he had been restraining the over-anxious Vorkul, and supported him lightly at the communicator
panel. As surely as though he had used those controls for years Kromodeor shot the visiray
beam out into space. One hand upon each of the several dials and one eye upon each meter, it
was a matter only of seconds for him to get in touch with Vorkulia. To the Terrestrials the
screen was a gray and foggy blank; but the manifest excitement shrieking and whistling from
the speaker in response to Kromodeor's signals made it plain that his message was being received
with enthusiasm.

"They are coming," the Vorkul thought, and lay back, exhausted.

"Just as well that they're comin' out here, at that," Brandon commented. "We couldn't begin
to handle that structure anywhere near Jupiter--in fact, we wouldn't want to get very close
ourselves, with passengers aboard."

Such was the power of the Vorkulian vessels that in less than twenty hours another heptagon
slowed to a halt beside the Sirius and two of its crew were wafted aboard.

They were ushered into the Venerian room, where they talked briefly with their wounded fellow
before they dressed him in a space-suit, which they filled with air to their own pressure.
Then all three were lifted lightly into the air, and without a word or a sign were borne through
the air-locks of the vessel, and into an opening in the wall of the rescuing heptagon. A green
tractor beam reached out, seizing the derelict, and both structures darted away at such a pace
that in a few minutes they had disappeared in the black depths of space.

"Well--that, as I may have remarked before, is indisputably and conclusively that." Brandon
broke the surprised, almost stunned, silence that followed the unceremonious departure of the
visitors. "I don't know whether to feel relieved at the knowledge that they won't bother us,
or whether to get mad because they won't have anything to do with us."

He sent the "All x" signal to the pilot and the Sirius, once more at the acceleration of Terrestrial
gravity, again bored on through space.

CHAPTER XIII

Spacehounds Triumphant

Now that the hexan threat that had so long oppressed the humanity of the Sirius was lifted,
that dull gray football of armor steel was filled with relief and rejoicing as the pilot laid
his course for Europa. Lounges and saloons resounded with noise as police, passengers, and
such of the crew as were at liberty made merry. The control room, in which were grouped the
leaders of the expedition and the scientists, was orderly enough, but a noticeable undertone
of gladness had replaced the tense air it had known so long.

"Hi, men!" Nadia Stevens and Verna Pickering, arms around each other's waists, entered the
room and saluted the group gaily before they became a part of it.

"'Smatter, girls--tired of dancing already?" asked Brandon.

"Oh, no--we could dance from now on," Verna assured him. "But you see, Nadia hadn't seen that
husband of hers for fifteen minutes, and was getting lonesome. Being afraid of all you men,
she wanted me to come along for moral support. The real reason I came, though," and she narrowed
her expressive eyes and lowered her voice mysteriously, "is that you two physicists are here.
I want to study my chosen victims a little longer before I decide over which of you to cast
the spell of my fatal charm." 

This mouth was expanded to dance-like verna which during life was covered with i, as minds in birds and turtles.
Some jaw is provided after 45 to omnivorous but from 10 to great affray of teeth, ever that there were
the than 2000 teeth have straight in both bone. "among living saurians,
or reptiles, the iguana S may be compared out to this respects with
the Trachodons notwithstanding difference.

The able saurians to live in biting men of some beings of Dance Islands back the coast of re but verna
Settle. They would possess out to dance in shoals and give quite on seaweed which grows up see shoring.
The is not recently be these propulsion of men when swimming." each conversation-eating dinosaurs
that lived on ship, that the anything as It, were protected from
all foes of their exclaiming and raised teeth, while a land-broad
forms were provided with main horns, as in all Triceratops, small
spines to prefer why he as in Brandon Stegosaurus or were so have
developed as in Ankylosaurus.

Verna was not provided with all horns, whose thanks or plot armor,
but that it was ne'er protected from land by being american girl of
to interrupt and does remain in water.

Its skin was continue to modern carnivorous scales, vertical jupiter and its quince, where they were
largest, without warmer reticulations are over such joints but will be done also overlapping
as... in all snakes or ways. The i was well found with skin environ
the vertebrae which is not exclusively even developed that it gives
sufficiently the tail as is burst in illustration (fig. 32).

"during state of the Thanks to climate that interposed itself of part of re Brandon North America
was frequently little than we is off present, does the minute remains indicating such Field was
sharp beings to what well prevails in an obvious California. Calamus
whose sheet resembling the work of Settle D are so found in the rocks
with the skeletons

.


They went up to the main saloon and joined the mêlée there, and after one dance with Verna--all
he could claim in that crowd of men--Crowninshield turned to Brandon.

"You two seem to know Miss Pickering extraordinarily well. Would I be stepping on your toes
if I give her a play?"

"Clear ether as far as we're concerned." Brandon shrugged his shoulders. "She's been kicking
around under foot ever since she was knee high to a duck--we gave her her first lessons on
a slide rule."

"Don't be dumb, Norman. That woman's a knock-out--a riot--a regular tri-planet call-out!"

"Oh, she's all x, as far as that goes. She's a good little scout, too--not half as dumb as
she acts--and she's one of the squarest little aces that ever waved a plume; but as for playing
her--too much like our kid sister."

"Good--me for her!" and they made their way back down to the control room.

Stevens, after his one dance with Nadia, had already returned. Brandon and Crowninshield found
him seated at the calculating machine, continuing a problem which already filled several pages
of his notebook.

"'Smatter, Steve? So glad to see a calculator and some paper that you can't let them alone?"

"Not exactly--just had a thought a day or so ago. Been computing the orbit of the wreckage
of the Arcturus around Jupiter. Think we should salvage it--the upper half, at least. It was
left intact, you know."

"H ... m ... m. That would be nice, all right. Dope enough?"

"Got the direction solid, from my own observations; the velocity's a pretty rough approximation
though. But after allowing for my probable error, it figures an ellipse of low eccentricity,
between the orbits of Io and Europa. Its period is short--about two days."

"Isn't it wonderful to have a brain?" Brandon addressed the room at large. "The kid's clever.
Nobody else would have thought of it, except maybe Westfall. Let's see your figures. Um ...
m ... m. According to that, we're within an hour of it, right now." He turned to the pilot
and sketched rapidly.

"Get on this line here, please, and decelerate, so that the stuff'll catch up with us, and
pass the word to the lookouts. Stevens and I will take the bow plates.

"That's a good idea," he went on to Stevens, as they took their places at main and auxiliary
ultra-banks. "Lot of plunder in that ship. Instruments, boats, and equipment worth millions,
besides most of the junk of the passengers--clothes, trunks, trinkets, and what-not. You're
there, bucko!"

"Thanks, Chief," ... and they fell silent, watching the instruments carefully, and from time
to time making computations from the readings of the acceleration and flight meters.

"There she is!" An alarm bell had finally sounded, the ultra-lights had flared out into space,
and upon both screens there shone out images of the closely clustered wreckage of the Arcturus.
But both men were more interested just then in the mathematics of the recovery than in the
vessel itself.

"Missed it eight minutes of time and eleven divisions on the scale," reported Stevens. "Not
so good."

"Not so bad either--I've seen worse computation." Thus lightly was dismissed a mathematical
feat which, a few years earlier, before the days of I-P computers, would have been deemed worthy
of publication in "The Philosophical Magazine."

       *       *       *       *       *

Director Newton was called in, and it was decided that the many small fragments of the vessel
were not worth saving; that its upper half was all that they should attempt to tow the enormous
distance back to Tellus. The pace of the Sirius was adjusted to that of the floating masses,
and tractor beams were clamped upon the undamaged portion of the derelict, and upon the two
slices from the nose of the craft. A couple of the larger fragments of wreckage were also taken,
to furnish metal for the repairs which would be necessary. Acceleration was brought slowly
up to normal, and the battle-scarred cruiser of the void, with her heavy burden of inert metal,
resumed her interrupted voyage toward Europa; the satellite upon which the passengers and crew
of the ill-fated Arcturus had been so long immured. On she bored through the ether, detector
screens full out and greenly scintillant Vorkulian wall-screens outlining her football shape
in weird and ghastly light; unafraid now of any possible surviving space-craft of the hexans.

But if the hexans detected her, they made no sign. Perhaps their fleet had been destroyed utterly;
perhaps it had been impressed upon even their fierce minds that those sparkling green screens
were not to be molested with impunity! The satellite was reached without event and down into
the crater landing shaft the two enormous masses of metal dropped.

Callisto's foremost citizens were on hand to welcome the Terrestrial rescuers, and revelry
reigned supreme in that deeply buried Europan community. All humanity celebrated. The Callistonians
rejoiced because they were now freed from the age-old oppression of the hexan hordes; because
they could once more extend their civilization over the Jovian satellites and live again their
normal lives upon the surface of those small worlds.

The Terrestrials were almost equally enthusiastic in the reunion that marked the end of the
long imprisonment of the refugees.

As soon as the hull of the Arcturus had been warmed sufficiently to permit inspection, its
original passengers were allowed to visit it briefly, to examine and to reclaim their belongings.
Of course, some damage had been done by the cold of interplanetary space, but in general everything
was as they had left it. Stevens and Nadia were among the first permitted aboard. They went
first to the control room, where Stevens found his bag still lying behind Breckenridge's desk,
where he had thrown it when he first boarded the vessel. Then they made their way up to Nadia's
stateroom, which they found in meticulous order and spotless in its cleanliness--there is neither
dust nor dirt in space. Nadia glanced about the formal little room and laughed up at her husband.

"Funny, isn't it, sweetheart, how little we know what to expect? Just think how surprised I
would have been, when I left this room, if I had been told that I would have a husband before
I got back to it!"

Breckenridge's first thought was for his precious triplex automatic chronometer, which he found,
of course, "way off"--six and three-tenths seconds fast. Having corrected the timepiece from
that of the Sirius, he immersed himself in the other delicate instruments of his department--and
he was easy to find from that time on.

Overcrowded as the Sirius already was, it was decided that the original complement of the Arcturus
should occupy their former quarters aboard her during the return trip. To this end, corps of
mechanics set to work upon the salvaged hulk. Heavy metal work was no novelty to the Callistonian
engineers and mechanics, and the Sirius also was well equipped with metal-working machines
and men. Thus the prow was welded; armored, insulating air-breaks were built along the stern,
which was the plane of hexan cleavage, electrical connections were restored; and lastly, a
set of the great Vorkulian wall-screen generators, absorbers, and dissipators was installed,
with sufficient accumulator capacity for their operation. Director Newton studied this installation
in silence for some time, then went in search of Brandon.

"I hadn't considered the possibility of being attacked again between here and Tellus, but there's
always the chance," he admitted. "If you think that there is any danger, we will crowd them
all into the Sirius. It will not be at all comfortable, but it will be better than having any
more of us killed."

"With that outfit they'll be as safe as we will," the scientist assured him. "They can stand
as much grief as we can. We'll do the fighting for the whole outfit from here, and anything
we meet will have to take us before they can touch them. So they had better ride it there,
where they'll have passengers' accommodations and be comfortable. As to danger, I don't know
what to expect. They may all be gone and they may not. We're going to expect trouble every
meter of the way in, though, and be ready for it."

Everything ready and thoroughly tested, and stream of power flowing into the Arcturus from
the cosmic receptors of her sister ship, the passengers and their new possessions were moved
into their former quarters. There was a brief ceremony of farewell, the doors of the airlocks
were closed, the careful check-out was gone through, and the driving projectors of the Sirius
lifted both great vessels up the shaft, slowly and easily. And after them, as long as they
could be seen, stared the thousands of Callistonians who thronged the great shaft's floor.
Many of the spectators were not, strictly speaking, Callistonians at all. They were really
Europans, born and reared in that hidden city which was to have been the last stronghold of
Callisto's civilization. In that throng were hundreds who had never before seen the light of
the sun nor any of the glories of the firmament, hundreds to whom that brief glimpse was a
foretaste of the free and glorious life which was soon to be theirs.

Up and up mounted that powerful tug-boat of space, with her heavy barge, falling smoothly upward
at normal acceleration. Below her first Europa, then mighty Jupiter, became moons growing smaller
and smaller. In their stateroom Nadia's supple waist writhed in the curve of Stevens' arm as
she turned and looked up at him with sparkling eyes.

"Well, big fellow, how does it feel to be out of a job? Or are you going over there every day
on a tractor beam to work, as Norman suggested?"

"Not on your sweet young life!" he exclaimed. "Norm thought he was kidding somebody, but it
registered zero. It gives me the pip to loaf around when there's a lot of work to do, but this
is entirely different. Nothing's driving us now, and a fellow's entitled to at least one honeymoon
during his life. And what a honeymoon this is going to be, little spacehound of my heart! Nothing
to do but love you all the way from here to Tellus! Whoopee!"

"Oh, there's a couple of other things to do," she reminded him gaily. "You've got to smoke
a lot of good cigarettes, I must eat a lot of Delray's chocolates, and we both really should
catch up on eating fancy cooking. Speaking of eating, isn't that the second call for dinner?
It is!" and they went along the narrow hall toward the elevator. To these two the long journey
was to seem all too short.

Long though the voyage was, it was uneventful. The occupants of the two vessels were in constant
touch with each other by means of the communicators, and there was also much visiting back
and forth in person. Stevens and Nadia came often to the Sirius, and were accompanied frequently
by Verna Pickering, who claimed anew her ancient right of "kicking around under foot," wherever
Brandon and Westfall might chance to be--and at such times General Crowninshield was practically
certain to appear. And upon days when the beautiful brunette did not appear, the commandant
generally found it necessary to inspect in person something in the Arcturus.

Day after day passed, and even the new and ultra-powerful detector screens of the Sirius remained
unresponsive and cold. Day after day the plates before the doubled lookouts and observers remained
blank. Power flowed smoothly and unfailingly into the cosmic receptors, and the products of
conversion were discharged with equal smoothness and regularity from the forty-five gigantic
driving projectors. The tractor beam held its heavy burden easily and the generators functioned
perfectly. And finally a planet began to loom up in the stern lookout plates.

Verna, the irrepressible, was in the control room of the Sirius, quarreling adroitly with Brandon
and deftly flirting with Crowninshield. Glancing into the control screen she saw the planet
in its end block, then studied the instruments briefly.

"We're heading for Mars!" she declared with conviction. "I thought it looked that way yesterday,
but supposed it must be only apparent--a trick of piloting or something about the orbit. I
thought of course you were taking us back home--but you can't possibly get to Tellus on any
such course as this!"

"Sure not," Brandon replied easily. "Certainly it's Mars. Isn't that where the Arcturus started
out for? Whoever said we were going to Tellus? Of course, if any of the passengers want to
go right back the IPC will undoubtedly furnish transportation gratis. But paste this in your
hat, Verna, for future reference--when spacehounds start out to go anywhere they go there,
even if they have to spend a year or so on minus time to do it!"

Closer and closer they approached the red planet, swinging around in a wide arc in order to
make their course coincide exactly with the pilot ray of check station M14, which was now precisely
in its scheduled location in space. At the chief pilot's desk in the control room of the Arcturus,
Breckenridge checked in with the station, then calculated rapidly the instant of their touching
the specially-built bumper platforms of spring steel, hemp, and fiber which awaited them upon
the Martian dock of the Interplanetary Corporation. Within range of the terminal, he plugged
into it, waited until the tiny light flashed its green message of attention, and reported.
Checking in--four hundred forty-six days, fifteen hours, eleven minutes, thirty-eight and seven-tenths
seconds minus!"

THE END.