THE RISE OF THE DUTCH REPUBLIC

By John Lothrop Motley

1855

1568  [CHAPTER II.]

     Orange, Count Louis, Hoogstraaten, and others, cited before the
     Blood-Council--Charges against them--Letter of Orange in reply--
     Position and sentiments of the Prince--Seizure of Count de Buren--
     Details of that transaction--Petitions to the Council from Louvain
     and other places--Sentence of death against the whole population of
     the Netherlands pronounced by the Spanish Inquisition and proclaimed
     by Philip--Cruel inventions against heretics--The Wild Beggars--
     Preliminary proceedings of the Council against Egmont and Horn--
     Interrogatories addressed to them in prison--Articles of accusation
     against them--Foreclosure of the cases--Pleas to the jurisdiction--
     Efforts by the Countesses Egmont and Horn, by many Knights of the
     Fleece, and by the Emperor, in favor of the prisoners--Answers of
     Alva and of Philip--Obsequious behavior of Viglius--Difficulties
     arising from the Golden Fleece statutes set aside--Particulars of
     the charges against Count Horn and of his defence--Articles of
     accusation against Egmont--Sketch of his reply--Reflections upon the
     two trials--Attitude of Orange--His published 'Justification'--His
     secret combinations--His commission to Count Louis--Large sums of
     money subscribed by the Nassau family, by Netherland refugees, and
     others--Great personal sacrifices made by the Prince--Quadruple
     scheme for invading the Netherlands--Defeat of the patriots under
     Cocqueville--Defeat of Millers--Invasion of Friesland by Count
     Louis--Measures of Alva to oppose him--Command of the royalists
     entreated to Aremberg and Meghem--The Duke's plan for the campaign--
     Skirmish at Dam--Detention of Meghem--Count Louis at Heiliger--Lee--
     Nature of the ground--Advance of Aremberg--Disposition of the
     patriot forces--Impatience of the Spanish troops to engage--Battle
     of Heiliger-Lee--Defeat and death of Aremberg--Death of Adolphus
     Nassau--Effects of the battle--Anger and severe measures of Alva--
     Eighteen nobles executed at Brussels--Sentence of death pronounced
     upon Egmont and Horn--The Bishop of Ypres sent to Egmont--Fruitless
     intercession by the prelate and the Countess--Egmont's last night in
     prison--The "grande place" at Brussels--Details concerning the
     execution of Egmont and Horn--Observation upon the characters of the
     two nobles--Destitute condition of Egmont's family.

Late in October, the Duke of Alva made his triumphant entry into the new fortress.  During
his absence, which was to continue during the remainder of the year, he had ordered the Secretary
Courteville and the Councillor del Rio to superintend the commission, which was then actually
engaged in collecting materials for the prosecutions to be instituted against the Prince of
Orange and the other nobles who had abandoned the country. Accordingly, soon after his return,
on the 19th of January, 1568, the Prince, his brother Louis of Nassau, his brother-in-law,
Count Van den Berg, the Count Hoogstraaten, the Count Culemburg, and the Baron Montigny, were
summoned in the name of Alva to appear before the Blood- Council, within thrice fourteen days
from the date of the proclamation, under pain of perpetual banishment with confiscation of
their estates. It is needless to say that these seigniors did not obey the summons. They knew
full well that their obedience would be rewarded only by death.

The charges against the Prince of Orange, which were drawn up in ten articles, stated, chiefly
and briefly, that he had been, and was, the head and front of the rebellion; that as soon as
his Majesty had left the Netherlands, he had begun his machinations to make himself master
of the country and to expel his sovereign by force, if he should attempt to return to the provinces;
that he had seduced his Majesty's subjects by false pretences that the Spanish inquisition
was about to be introduced; that he had been the secret encourager and director of Brederode
and the confederated nobles; and that when sent to Antwerp, in the name of the Regent, to put
down the rebellion, he had encouraged heresy and accorded freedom of religion to the Reformers.

The articles against Hoogstraaten and the other gentlemen mere of similar tenor.  It certainly
was not a slender proof of the calm effrontery of the government thus to see Alva's proclamation
charging it as a crime upon Orange that he had inveigled the lieges into revolt by a false
assertion that the inquisition was about to be established, when letters from the Duke to Philip,
and from Granvelle to Philip, dated upon nearly the same day, advised the immediate restoration
of the inquisition as soon as an adequate number of executions had paved the way for the measure.
It was also a sufficient indication of a reckless despotism, that while the Duchess, who had
made the memorable Accord with the Religionists, received a flattering letter of thanks and
a farewell pension of fourteen thousand ducats yearly, those who, by her orders, had acted
upon that treaty as the basis of their negotiations, were summoned to lay down their heads
upon the block.

The Prince replied to this summons by a brief and somewhat contemptuous plea to the jurisdiction.
As a Knight of the Fleece, as a member of the Germanic Empire, as a sovereign prince in France,
as a citizen of the Netherlands, he rejected the authority of Alva and of his self- constituted
tribunal.  His innocence he was willing to establish before competent courts and righteous
judges.  As a Knight of the Fleece, he said he could be tried only by his peers, the brethren
of the Order, and, for that purpose, he could be summoned only by the King as Head of the Chapter,
with the sanction of at least six of his fellow-knights.  In conclusion, he offered to appear
before his Imperial Majesty, the Electors, and other members of the Empire, or before the Knights
of the Golden Fleece.  In the latter case, he claimed the right, under the statutes of that
order, to be placed while the trial was pending, not in a solitary prison, as had been the
fate of Egmont and of Horn, but under the friendly charge and protection of the brethren themselves.
The letter was addressed to the procurator-general, and a duplicate was forwarded to the Duke.

From the general tenor of the document, it is obvious both that the Prince was not yet ready
to throw down the gauntlet to his sovereign, nor to proclaim his adhesion to the new religion:
Of departing from the Netherlands in the spring, he had said openly that he was still in possession
of sixty thousand florins yearly, and that he should commence no hostilities against Philip,
so long as he did not disturb him in his honor or his estates.  Far-seeing politician, if man
ever were, he knew the course whither matters were inevitably tending, but he knew how much
strength was derived from putting an adversary irretrievably in the wrong.  He still maintained
an attitude of dignified respect towards the monarch, while he hurled back with defiance the
insolent summons of the viceroy.  Moreover, the period had not yet arrived for him to break
publicly with the ancient faith.  Statesman, rather than religionist, at this epoch, he was
not disposed to affect a more complete conversion than the one which he had experienced.  He
was, in truth, not for a new doctrine, but for liberty of conscience.  His mind was already
expanding beyond any dogmas of the age.  The man whom his enemies stigmatized as atheist and
renegade, was really in favor of toleration, and therefore, the more deeply criminal in the
eyes of all religious parties.

Events, personal to himself, were rapidly to place him in a position from which he might enter
the combat with honor.

His character had already been attacked, his property threatened with confiscation.  His closest
ties of family were now to be severed by the hand of the tyrant.  His eldest child, the Count
de Buren, torn from his protection, was to be carried into indefinite captivity in a foreign
land.  It was a remarkable oversight, for a person of his sagacity, that, upon his own departure
from the provinces, he should leave his son, then a boy of thirteen years, to pursue his studies
at the college of Louvain. Thus exposed to the power of the government, he was soon seized
as a hostage for the good behavior of the father.  Granvelle appears to have been the first
to recommend the step in a secret letter to Philip, but Alva scarcely needed prompting.  Accordingly,
upon the 13th of February, 1568, the Duke sent the Seignior de Chassy to Louvain, attended
by four officers and by twelve archers.  He was furnished with a letter to the Count de Buren,
in which that young nobleman was requested to place implicit confidence in the bearer of the
despatch, and was informed that the desire which his Majesty had to see him educated for his
service, was the cause of the communication which the Seignior de Chassy was about to make.

That gentleman was, moreover, minutely instructed as to his method of proceeding in this memorable
case of kidnapping.  He was to present the letter to the young Count in presence of his tutor.
He was to invite him to Spain in the name of his Majesty.  He was to assure him that his Majesty's
commands were solely with a view, to his own good, and that he was not commissioned to arrest,
but only to escort him.  He was to allow the Count to be accompanied only by two valets, two
pages, a cook, and a keeper of accounts.  He was, however, to induce his tutor to accompany
him, at least to the Spanish frontier.  He was to arrange that the second day after his arrival
at Louvain, the Count should set out for Antwerp, where he was to lodge with Count Lodron,
after which they were to proceed to Flushing, whence they were to embark for Spain.  At that
city he was to deliver the young Prince to the person whom he would find there, commissioned
for that purpose by the Duke.  As soon as he had made the first proposition at Louvain to the
Count, he was, with the assistance of his retinue, to keep the most strict watch over him day
and night, but without allowing the supervision to be perceived.

The plan was carried out admirably, and in strict accordance with the program.  It was fortunate,
however, for the kidnappers, that the young Prince proved favorably disposed to the plan. 
He accepted the invitation of his captors with alacrity.  He even wrote to thank the governor
for his friendly offices in his behalf.  He received with boyish gratification the festivities
with which Lodron enlivened his brief sojourn at Antwerp, and he set forth without reluctance
for that gloomy and terrible land of Spain, whence so rarely a Flemish traveller had returned.
A changeling, as it were, from his cradle, he seemed completely transformed by his Spanish
tuition, for he was educated and not sacrificed by Philip.  When he returned to the Netherlands,
after a twenty years' residence in Spain, it was difficult to detect in his gloomy brow, saturnine
character, and Jesuistical habits, a trace of the generous spirit which characterized that
race of heroes, the house of Orange-Nassau.

Philip had expressed some anxiety as to the consequences of this capture upon the governments
of Germany.  Alva, however, re-assured his sovereign upon that point, by reason of the extreme
docility of the captive, and the quiet manner in which the arrest had been conducted.  At that
particular juncture, moreover, it would, have been difficult for the government of the Netherlands
to excite surprise any where, except by an act of clemency.  The president and the deputation
of professors from the university of Louvain waited upon Vargas, by whom, as acting president
of the Blood-Council, the arrest had nominally been made, with a remonstrance that the measure
was in gross violation of their statutes and privileges.  That personage, however, with his
usual contempt both for law and Latin, answered brutally, "Non curamus vestros privilegios,"
and with this memorable answer, abruptly closed his interview with the trembling pedants.

Petitions now poured into the council from all quarters, abject recantations from terror-stricken
municipalities, humble intercessions in behalf of doomed and imprisoned victims.  To a deputation
of the magistracy of Antwerp, who came with a prayer for mercy in behalf of some of their most
distinguished fellow-citizens, then in prison, the Duke gave a most passionate and ferocious
reply.  He expressed his wonder that the citizens of Antwerp, that hotbed of treason, should
dare to approach him in behalf of traitors and heretics.  Let them look to it in future, he
continued, or he would hang every man in the whole city, to set an example to the rest of the
country; for his Majesty would rather the whole land should become an uninhabited wilderness,
than that a single Dissenter should exist within its territory.

Events now marched with rapidity.  The monarch seemed disposed literally to execute the threat
of his viceroy.  It was hardly the purpose of Government to compel the absolute completion
of the wholesale plan in all its length and breadth, yet in the horrible times upon which they
had fallen, the Netherlanders might be excused for believing that no measure was too monstrous
to be fulfilled. At any rate, it was certain that when all were condemned, any might at a moment's
warning be carried to the scaffold, and this was precisely the course adopted by the authorities.

Under this universal decree the industry of the Blood-Council might, now seem superfluous.
Why should not these mock prosecutions be dispensed with against individuals, now that a common
sentence had swallowed the whole population in one vast grave?  Yet it may be supposed that
if the exertions of the commissioners and councillors served no other purpose, they at least
furnished the Government with valuable evidence as to the relative wealth and other circumstances
of the individual victims.  The leading thought of the Government being that persecution, judiciously
managed, might fructify into a golden harvest,--it was still desirable to persevere in the
cause in which already such bloody progress had been made.

And under this new decree, the executions certainly did not slacken. Men in the highest and
the humblest positions were daily and hourly dragged  to the stake.  Alva, in a single letter
to Philip, coolly estimated the number of executions which were to take place immediately after
the expiration of holy week, "at eight hundred heads."  Many a citizen, convicted of a hundred
thousand florins and of no other crime, saw himself suddenly tied to a horse's tail, with his
hands fastened behind him, and so dragged to the gallows.  But although wealth was an unpardonable
sin, poverty proved rarely a protection.  Reasons sufficient could always be found for dooming
the starveling laborer as well as the opulent burgher.  To avoid the disturbances created in
the streets by the frequent harangues or exhortations addressed to the bystanders by the victims
on their way to the scaffold, a new gag was invented.  The tongue of each prisoner was screwed
into an iron ring, and then seared with a hot iron.  The swelling and inflammation which were
the immediate result, prevented the tongue from slipping through the ring, and of course effectually
precluded all possibility of speech.

Although the minds of men were not yet prepared for concentrated revolt against the tyranny
under which they were languishing, it was not possible to suppress all sentiments of humanity,
and to tread out every spark of natural indignation.

Unfortunately, in the bewilderment and misery of this people, the first development of a forcible
and organized resistance was of a depraved and malignant character.  Extensive bands of marauders
and highway robbers sprang into existence, who called themselves the Wild Beggars, and who,
wearing the mask and the symbols of a revolutionary faction, committed great excesses in many
parts of the country, robbing, plundering, and murdering.  Their principal wrath was exercised
against religious houses and persons.  Many monasteries were robbed, many clerical persons
maimed and maltreated.  It became a habit to deprive priests of their noses or ears, and to
tie them to the tails of horses.  This was the work of ruffian gangs, whose very existence
was engendered out of the social and moral putrescence to which the country was reduced, and
who were willing to profit by the deep and universal hatred which was felt against Catholics
and monks.  An edict thundered forth by Alva, authorizing and commanding all persons to slay
the wild beggars at sight, without trial or hangman, was of comparatively slight avail.  An
armed force of veterans actively scouring the country was more successful, and the freebooters
were, for a time, suppressed.

Meantime the Counts Egmont and Horn had been kept in rigorous confinement at Ghent.  Not a
warrant had been read or drawn up for their arrest. Not a single preliminary investigation,
not the shadow of an information had preceded the long imprisonment of two men so elevated
in rank, so distinguished in the public service.  After the expiration of two months, however,
the Duke condescended to commence a mock process against them.  The councillors appointed to
this work were Vargas and Del Rio, assisted by Secretary Praets.  These persons visited the
Admiral on the 10th, 11th, 12th and 17th of November, and Count Egmont on the 12th, 13th, 14th,
and 16th, of the same month; requiring them to respond to a long, confused, and rambling collection
of interrogatories.  They were obliged to render these replies in prison, unassisted by any
advocates, on penalty of being condemned 'in contumaciam'.  The questions, awkwardly drawn
up as they seemed, were yet tortuously and cunningly arranged with a view of entrapping the
prisoners into self-contradiction.  After this work had been completed, all the papers by which
they intended to justify their answers were taken away from them.  Previously, too, their houses
and those of their secretaries, Bakkerzeel and Alonzo de la Loo, had been thoroughly ransacked,
and every letter and document which could be found placed in the hands of government.  Bakkerzeel,
moreover, as already stated, had been repeatedly placed upon the rack, for the purpose of extorting
confessions which might implicate his master.  These preliminaries and precautionary steps
having been taken, the Counts had again been left to their solitude for two months longer.
On the 10th January, each was furnished with a copy of the declarations or accusations filed
against him by the procurator-general.  To these documents, drawn up respectively in sixty-three,
and in ninety articles, they were required, within five days' time, without the assistance
of an advocate, and without consultation with any human being, to deliver a written answer,
on pain, as before, of being proceeded against and condemned by default.

This order was obeyed within nearly the prescribed period and here, it may be said, their own
participation in their trial ceased; while the rest of the proceedings were buried in the deep
bosom of the Blood- Council.  After their answers had been delivered, and not till then, the
prisoners were, by an additional mockery, permitted to employ advocates. These advocates, however,
were allowed only occasional interviews with their clients, and always in the presence of certain
persons, especially deputed for that purpose by the Duke.  They were also allowed commissioners
to collect evidence and take depositions, but before the witnesses were ready, a purposely
premature day, 8th of May, was fixed upon for declaring the case closed, and not a single tittle
of their evidence, personal or documentary, was admitted.--Their advocates petitioned for an
exhibition of the evidence prepared by government, and were refused.  Thus, they were forbidden
to use the testimony in their favor, while that which was to be employed against them was kept
secret. Finally, the proceedings were formally concluded on the 1st of June, and the papers
laid before the Duke.  The mass of matter relating to these two monster processes was declared,
three days afterwards to have been examined--a physical impossibility in itself--and judgment
was pronounced upon the 4th of June.  This issue was precipitated by the campaign of Louis
Nassau in Friesland, forming a aeries of important events which it will be soon our duty to
describe.  It is previously necessary, however, to add a few words in elucidation of the two
mock trials which have been thus briefly sketched.

The proceeding had been carried on, from first to last, under protest by the prisoners, under
a threat of contumacy on the part of the government. Apart from the totally irresponsible and
illegal character of the tribunal before which they were summoned--the Blood-Council being
a private institution of Alva's without pretext or commission--these nobles acknowledged the
jurisdiction of but three courts.  As Knights of the Golden Fleece, both claimed the privilege
of that Order to be tried by its statutes.  As a citizen and noble of Brabant, Egmont claimed
the protection of the "Joyeuse Entree," a constitution which had been sworn to by Philip and
his ancestors, and by Philip more amply, than by all his ancestors.  As a member and Count
of the Holy Roman Empire, the Admiral claimed to be tried by his peers, the electors and princes
of the realm.

The Countess Egmont, since her husband's arrest, and the confiscation of his estates before
judgment, had been reduced to a life of poverty as well as agony.  With her eleven children,
all of tender age, she had taken refuge in a convent.  Frantic with despair, more utterly desolate,
and more deeply wronged than high-born lady had often been before, she left no stone unturned
to save her husband from his fate, or at least to obtain for him an impartial and competent
tribunal.  She addressed the Duke of Alva, the King, the Emperor, her brother the Elector Palatine,
and many leading Knights of the Fleece.  The Countess Dowager of Horn, both whose sons now
lay in the jaws of death, occupied herself also with the most moving appeals to the same high
personages.  No pains were spared to make the triple plea to the jurisdiction valid.  The leading
Knights of the Fleece, Mansfeld, whose loyalty was unquestioned, and Hoogstraaten, although
himself an outlaw; called upon the King of Spain to protect the statutes of the illustrious
order of which he was the chief.  The estates of Brabant, upon the petition of Sabina, Countess
Egmont, that they would take to heart the privileges of the province, so that her husband might
enjoy that protection of which the meanest citizen in the land could not be justly deprived,
addressed a feeble and trembling protest to Alva, and enclosed to him the lady's petition.
The Emperor, on behalf of Count Horn, wrote personally to Philip, to claim for him a trial
before the members of the realm.

It was all in vain.  The conduct of Philip and his Viceroy coincided in spirit with the honest
brutality of Vargas.  "Non curamus vestros privilegios," summed up the whole of the proceedings.
Non curamus vestros privilegios had been the unanswerable reply to every constitutional argument
which had been made against tyranny since Philip mounted his father's throne.  It was now the
only response deemed necessary to the crowd of petitions in favor of the Counts, whether they
proceeded from sources humble or august.  Personally, the King remained silent as the grave.
In writing to the Duke of Alva, he observed that "the Emperor, the Dukes of Bavaria and Lorraine,
the Duchess and the Duchess-dowager, had written to him many times, and in the most pressing
manner, in favor of the Counts Horn and Egmont."  He added, that he had made no reply to them,
nor to other Knights of the Fleece who had implored him to respect the statutes of the order,
and he begged Alva "to hasten the process as fast as possible."  To an earnest autograph letter,
in which the Emperor, on the 2nd of March, 1568, made a last effort to save the illustrious
prisoners, he replied, that "the whole world would at last approve his conduct, but that, at
any rate, he would not act differently, even if he should risk the loss of the provinces, and
if the sky should fall on his head."

But little heed was paid to the remonstrances in behalf of the imperial Courts, or the privileges
of Brabant.  These were but cobweb impediments which, indeed, had long been brushed away. 
President Viglius was even pathetic on the subject of Madame Egmont's petition to the council
of Brabant.  It was so bitter, he said, that the Duke was slightly annoyed, and took it ill
that the royal servants in that council should have his Majesty's interests so little at heart.
It seemed indecent in the eyes of the excellent Frisian, that a wife pleading for her husband,
a mother for her, eleven children, so soon to be fatherless, should indulge in strong language!

The statutes of the Fleece were obstacles somewhat more serious.  As, however, Alva had come
to the Netherlands pledged to accomplish the destruction of these two nobles, as soon as he
should lay his hands upon them, it was only a question of form, and even that question was,
after a little reflection, unceremoniously put aside.

To the petitions in behalf of the two Counts, therefore, that they should be placed in the
friendly keeping of the Order, and be tried by its statutes, the Duke replied, peremptorily,
that he had undertaken the cognizance of this affair by commission of his Majesty, as sovereign
of the land, not as head of the Golden Fleece, that he should carry it through as it had been
commenced, and that the Counts should discontinue presentations of petitions upon this point.

In the embarrassment created by the stringent language of these statutes, Doctor Viglius found
an opportunity to make himself very useful.  Alva had been turning over the laws and regulations
of the Order, but could find no loophole.  The President, however, came to his rescue, and
announced it as his legal opinion that the Governor need concern himself no further on the
subject, and that the code of the Fleece offered no legal impediment to the process.  Alva
immediately wrote to communicate this opinion to Philip, adding, with great satisfaction, that
he should immediately make it known to the brethren of the Order, a step which was the more
necessary because Egmont's advocate had been making great trouble with these privileges, and
had been protesting at every step of the proceedings.  In what manner the learned President
argued these troublesome statutes out of the way, has nowhere appeared; but he completely reinstated
himself in favor, and the King wrote to thank him for his legal exertions.

It was now boldly declared that the statutes of the Fleece did not extend to such crimes as
those with which the prisoner were charged.  Alva, moreover, received an especial patent, ante-dated
eight or nine months, by which Philip empowered him to proceed against all persons implicated
in the troubles, and particularly against Knights of the Golden Fleece.

It is superfluous to observe that these were merely the arbitrary acts of a despot.  It is
hardly necessary to criticise such proceedings.  The execution of the nobles had been settled
before Alva left Spain.  As they were inhabitants of a constitutional country, it was necessary
to stride over the constitution.  As they were Knights of the Fleece, it was necessary to set
aside the statutes of the Order.  The Netherland constitutions seemed so entirely annihilated
already, that they could hardly be considered obstacles; but the Order of the Fleece was an
august little republic of which Philip was the hereditary chief, of which emperors, kings,
and great seigniors were the citizens.  Tyranny might be embarrassed by such subtle and golden
filaments as these, even while it crashed through municipal charters as if they had been reeds
and bulrushes.  Nevertheless, the King's course was taken.  Although the thirteenth, fourteenth,
and fifteenth chapters of the Order expressly provided for the trial and punishment of brethren
who had been guilty of rebellion, heresy, or treason; and although the eleventh chapter; perpetual
and immutable, of additions to that constitution by the Emperor Charles, conferred on the Order
exclusive jurisdiction over all crimes whatever committed by the knights, yet it was coolly
proclaimed by Alva, that the crimes for which the Admiral and Egmont had been arrested, were
beyond the powers of the tribunal.

So much for the plea to the jurisdiction.  It is hardly worth while to look any further into
proceedings which were initiated and brought to a conclusion in the manner already narrated.
Nevertheless, as they were called a process, a single glance at the interior of that mass of
documents can hardly be superfluous.

The declaration against Count Horn; upon which, supported by invisible witnesses, he was condemned,
was in the nature of a narrative.  It consisted in a rehearsal of circumstances, some true
and some fictitious, with five inferences.  These five inferences amounted to five crimes--
high treason, rebellion, conspiracy, misprision of treason, and breach of trust.  The proof
of these crimes was evolved, in a dim and misty manner, out of a purposely confused recital.
No events, however, were recapitulated which have not been described in the course of this
history.  Setting out with a general statement, that the Admiral, the Prince of Orange, Count
Egmont, and other lords had organized a plot to expel his Majesty from the Netherlands, and
to divide the provinces among themselves; the declaration afterwards proceeded to particulars.
Ten of its sixty-three articles were occupied with the Cardinal Granvelle, who, by an absurd
affectation, was never directly named, but called "a certain personage--a principal personage--a
grand personage, of his Majesty's state council."  None of the offences committed against him
were forgotten: the 11th of March letter, the fool's-cap, the livery, were reproduced in the
most violent colors, and the cabal against the minister was quietly assumed to constitute treason
against the monarch.

The Admiral, it was further charged, had advised and consented to the fusion of the finance
and privy councils with that of state, a measure which was clearly treasonable.  He had, moreover,
held interviews with the Prince of Orange, with Egmont, and other nobles, at Breda and at Hoogstraaten,
at which meetings the confederacy and the petition had been engendered.  That petition had
been the cause of all the evils which had swept the land.  "It had scandalously injured the
King, by affirming that the inquisition was a tyranny to humanity, which was an infamous and
unworthy proposition."  The confederacy, with his knowledge and countenance, had enrolled 30,000
men.  He had done nothing, any more than Orange or Egmont, to prevent the presentation of the
petition.  In the consultation at the state-council which ensued, both he and the Prince were
for leaving Brussels at once, while Count Egmont expressed an intention of going to Aix to
drink the waters.  Yet Count Egmont's appearance (proceeded this indictment against another
individual) exhibited not a single sign of sickness.  The Admiral had, moreover, drank the
toast of "Vivent leg gueux" on various occasions, at the Culemberg House banquet, at the private
table of the Prince of Orange, at a supper at the monastery of Saint Bernard's, at a dinner
given by Burgomaster Straalen.  He had sanctioned the treaties with the rebels at Duffel, by
which he had clearly rendered himself guilty of high treason. He had held an interview with
Orange, Egmont, and Hoogstraaten, at Denremonde, for the treasonable purpose of arranging a
levy of troops to prevent his Majesty's entrance into the Netherlands.  He had refused to come
to Brussels at the request of the Duchess of Parma, when the rebels were about to present the
petition.  He had written to his secretary that he was thenceforth resolved to serve neither
King nor Kaiser.  He had received from one Taffin, with marks of approbation, a paper, stating
that the assembling of the states-general was the only remedy for the troubles in the land.
He had, repeatedly affirmed that the inquisition and edicts ought to be repealed.

On his arrival at Tournay in August, 1566, the people had cried "Vivent les gueux;" a proof
that he liked the cry.  All his transactions at Tournay, from first to last, had been criminal.
He had tolerated Reformed preaching, he had forbidden Catholics and Protestants to molest each
other, he had omitted to execute heretics, he had allowed the religionists to erect an edifice
for public worship outside the walls. He had said, at the house of Prince Espinoy, that if
the King should come into the provinces with force, he would oppose him with 15,000 troops.
He had said, if his brother Montigny should be detained in Spain, he would march to his rescue
at the head of 50,000 men whom he had at his command.  He had on various occasions declared
that "men should live according to their consciences"--as if divine and human laws were dead,
and men, like wild beasts, were to follow all their lusts and desires. Lastly, he had encouraged
the rebellion in Valenciennes.

Of all these crimes and misdeeds the procurator declared himself sufficiently informed, and
the aforesaid defendant entirely, commonly, and publicly defamed.

Wherefore, that officer terminated his declaration by claiming "that the cause should be concluded
summarily, and without figure or form of process; and that therefore, by his Excellency or
his sub-delegated judges, the aforesaid defendant should be declared to have in diverse ways
committed high treason, should be degraded from his dignities, and should be condemned to death,
with confiscation of all his estates."

The Admiral, thus peremptorily summoned, within five days, without assistance, without documents,
and from the walls of a prison, to answer to these charges, 'solos ex vinculis causam dicere',
undertook his task with the boldness of innocence.  He protested, of course, to the jurisdiction,
and complained of the want of an advocate, not in order to excuse any weakness in his defence,
but only any inelegance in his statement.  He then proceeded flatly to deny some of the facts,
to admit others, and to repel the whole treasonable inference.  His answer in all essential
respects was triumphant.  Supported by the evidence which, alas was not collected and published
till after his death, it was impregnable.

He denied that he had ever plotted against his King, to whom he had ever been attached, but
admitted that he had desired the removal of Granvelle, to whom he had always been hostile.
He had, however, been an open and avowed enemy to the Cardinal, and had been engaged in no
secret conspiracy against his character or against his life.  He denied that the livery (for
which, however, he was not responsible) had been intended to ridicule the Cardinal, but asserted
that it was intended to afford an example of economy to an extravagant nobility.  He had met
Orange and Egmont at Breda and Hoogstraaten, and had been glad to do so, for he had been long
separated from them.  These interviews, however, had been social, not political, for good cheer
and merry-making, not for conspiracy and treason.  He had never had any connection with the
confederacy; he had neither advised nor protected the petition, but, on the contrary, after
hearing of the contemplated movement, had written to give notice thereof to the Duchess.  He
was in no manner allied, with Brederode, but, on the contrary, for various reasons, was not
upon friendly terms with him.  He had not entered his house since his return from Spain.  He
had not been a party to the dinner at Culemburg House. Upon that day he had dined with the
Prince of Orange, with whom he was lodging and, after dinner, they had both gone together to
visit Mansfeld, who was confined with an inflamed eye.  There they had met Egmont, and the
three had proceeded together to Culemburg House in order to bring away Hoogstraaten, whom the
confederates had compelled to dine with them; and also to warn the nobles not to commit themselves
by extravagant and suspicious excesses.  They had remained in the house but a few minutes,
during which time the company had insisted upon their drinking a single cup to the toast of
"Vivent le roy et les gueux."  They had then retired, taking with them Hoogstraaten, and all
thinking that they had rendered a service to the government by their visit, instead of having
made themselves liable to a charge of treason.  As to the cries of "Vivent les gueux" at the
tables of Orange, of the Abbot of Saint Bernard, and at other places, those words had been
uttered by simple, harmless fellows; and as he considered, the table a place of freedom, he
had not felt himself justified in rebuking the manners of his associates, particularly, in
houses where he was himself but a guest.  As for committing treason at the Duffel meeting,
he had not been there at all.

He thanked God that, at that epoch, he had been absent from Brussels, for had he, as well as
Orange and Egmont, been commissioned by the Duchess to arrange those difficult matters, he
should have considered it his duty to do as they did.  He had never thought of levying troops
against his Majesty.  The Denremonde meeting had been held, to consult upon four subjects:
the affairs of Tournay; the intercepted letters of the French ambassador, Alava; the letter
of Montigny, in which he warned his brother of the evil impression which the Netherland matters
were making in Spain; and the affairs of Antwerp, from which city the Prince of Orange found
it necessary at that moment to withdraw.--With regard to his absence from Brussels, he stated
that he had kept away from the Court because he was ruined.  He was deeply in debt, and so
complete was his embarrassment, that he had been unable in Antwerp to raise 1000 crowns upon
his property, even at an interest of one hundred per cent.  So far from being able to levy
troops, he was hardly able to pay for his daily bread.  With regard to his transactions at
Tournay, he had, throughout them all, conformed himself to the instructions of Madame de Parma.
As to the cry of "Vivent les gueux," he should not have cared at that moment if the populace
had cried 'Vive Comte Horn', for his thoughts were then occupied with more substantial matters.
He had gone thither under a special commission from the Duchess, and had acted under instructions
daily received by her own hand.  He had, by her orders, effected a temporary compromise between
the two religious parties, on the basis of the Duffel treaty.  He had permitted the public
preaching to continue, but had not introduced it for the first time.  He had allowed temples
to be built outside the gates, but it was by express command of Madame, as he could prove by
her letters.  She had even reproved him before the council, because the work had not been accomplished
with sufficient despatch. With regard to his alleged threat, that he would oppose the King's
entrance with 15,000 men, he answered, with astonishing simplicity, that he did not remember
making any such observation, but it was impossible for a man to retain in his mind all the
nonsense which he might occasionally utter.  The honest Admiral thought that his poverty, already
pleaded, was so notorious that the charge was not worthy of a serious answer.  He also treated
the observation which he was charged with having made, relative to his marching to Spain with
50,000 men to rescue Montigny as "frivolous and ridiculous."  He had no power to raise a hundred
men.  Moreover he had rejoiced at Montigny's detention, for he had thought that to be out of
the Netherlands was to be out of harm's way.  On the whole, he claimed that in all those transactions
of his which might be considered anti-Catholic, he had been governed entirely by the instructions
of the Regent, and by her Accord with the nobles.  That Accord, as she had repeatedly stated
to him, was to be kept sacred until his Majesty, by advice of the states-general, should otherwise
ordain.

Finally, he observed, that law was not his vocation.  He was no pettifogger, but he had endeavored
loyally to conform himself to the broad and general principles of honor, justice, and truth.
In a very few and simple words, he begged his judges to have regard to his deeds, and to a
life of loyal service.  If he had erred occasionally in those times of tumult, his intentions
had ever been faithful and honorable.

The charges against Count Egmont were very similar to those against Count Horn.  The answers
of both defendants were nearly identical. Interrogations thus addressed to two different persons,
as to circumstances which had occurred long before, could not have been thus separately, secretly,
but simultaneously answered in language substantially the same, had not that language been
the words of truth. Egmont was accused generally of plotting with others to expel the King
from the provinces, and to divide the territory among themselves. Through a long series of
ninety articles, he was accused of conspiring against the character and life of Cardinal Granvelle.
He was the inventor, it was charged, of the fool's-cap livery.  He had joined in the letters
to the King, demanding the prelate's removal.  He had favored the fusion of the three councils.
He had maintained that the estates-general ought to be forthwith assembled, that otherwise
the debts of his Majesty and of the country could never be paid, and that the provinces would
go to the French, to the Germans, or to the devil.  He had asserted that he would not be instrumental
in burning forty or fifty thousand men, in order that the inquisition and the edicts might
be sustained.  He had declared that the edicts were rigorous.  He had advised the Duchess,
to moderate them, and remove the inquisition, saying that these measures, with a pardon general
in addition, were the only means of quieting the country.  He had advised the formation of
the confederacy, and promised to it his protection and favor.  He had counselled the presentation
of the petition.  He had arranged all these matters, in consultation with the other nobles,
at the interviews at Breda and Hoogstraaten.  He had refused the demand of Madame de Parma,
to take arms in her defence.  He had expressed his intention, at a most critical moment, of
going to the baths of Aix for his health, although his personal appearance gave no indication
of any malady whatever.  He had countenanced and counselled the proceedings of the rebel nobles
at Saint Trond.  He had made an accord with those of "the religion" at Ghent, Bruges, and other
places. He had advised the Duchess to grant a pardon to those who had taken up arms.  He had
maintained, in common with the Prince of Orange, at a session of the state council, that if
Madame should leave Brussels, they would assemble the states-general of their own authority,
and raise a force of forty thousand men.  He had plotted treason, and made arrangements for
the levy of troops at the interview at Denremonde, with Horn, Hoogstraaten, and the Prince
of Orange.  He had taken under his protection on the 20th April, 1566, the confederacy of the
rebels; had promised that they should never be molested, for the future, on account of the
inquisition or the edicts, and that so long as they kept within the terms of the Petition and
the Compromise, he would defend them with his own person.  He had granted liberty of preaching
outside the walls in many cities within his government.  He had said repeatedly, that if the
King desired to introduce the inquisition into the Netherlands, he would sell all his property
and remove to another land; thus declaring with how much contempt and detestation he regarded
the said inquisition.  He had winked at all the proceedings of the sectaries.  He had permitted
the cry of "Vivent les gueux" at his table.  He had assisted at the banquet at Culemburg House.

These were the principal points in the interminable act of accusation. Like the Admiral, Egmont
admitted many of the facts, and flatly denied the rest.  He indignantly repelled the possibility
of a treasonable inference from any of, or all, his deeds.  He had certainly desired the removal
of Granvelle, for he believed that the King's service would profit by his recal.  He replied,
almost in the same terms as the Admiral had done, to the charge concerning the livery, and
asserted that its principal object had been to set an example of economy.  The fool's-cap and
bells had been changed to a bundle of arrows, in consequence of a certain rumor which became
rife in Brussels, and in obedience to an ordinance of Madame de Parma.  As to the assembling
of the states- general, the fusion of the councils, the moderation of the edicts, he had certainly
been in favor of these measures, which he considered to be wholesome and lawful, not mischievous
or treasonable.  He had certainly maintained that the edicts were rigorous, and had advised
the Duchess, under the perilous circumstances of the country, to grant a temporary modification
until the pleasure of his Majesty could be known.  With regard to the Compromise, he had advised
all his friends to keep out of it, and many in consequence had kept out of it.  As to the presentation
of the petition, he had given Madame de Parma notice thereof, so soon as he had heard that
such a step was contemplated.  He used the same language as had been employed by Horn, with
regard to the interview at Breda and Hoogstraaten--that they had been meetings of "good cheer"
and good fellowship.  He had always been at every moment at the command of the Duchess, save
when he had gone to Flanders and Artois to suppress the tumults, according to her express orders.
He had no connexion with the meeting of the nobles at Saint Trond.  He had gone to Duffel as
special envoy from the Duchess, to treat with certain plenipotentiaries appointed at the Saint
Trond meeting.  He had strictly conformed to the letter of instructions, drawn up by the Duchess,
which would be found among his papers, but he had never promised the nobles his personal aid
or protection.  With regard to the Denremonde meeting, he gave almost exactly the same account
as Horn had given.  The Prince, the Admiral, and himself, had conversed between a quarter past
eleven and dinner time, which was twelve o'clock, on various matters, particularly upon the
King's dissatisfaction with recent events in the Netherlands, and upon a certain letter from
the ambassador Alava in Paris to the Duchess of Parma.  He had, however, expressed his opinion
to Madame that the letter was a forgery.  He had permitted public preaching in certain cities,
outside the walls, where it had already been established, because this was in accordance with
the treaty which Madame had made at Duffel, which she had ordered him honorably to maintain.
He had certainly winked at the religious exercises of the Reformers, because he had been expressly
commanded to do so, and because the government at that time was not provided with troops to
suppress the new religion by force.  He related the visit of Horn, Orange, and himself to Culemburg
House, at the memorable banquet, in almost the same words which the Admiral had used. He had
done all in his power to prevent Madame from leaving Brussels, in which effort he had been
successful, and from which much good had resulted to the country.  He had never recommended
that a pardon should be granted to those who had taken up arms, but on the contrary, had advised
their chastisement, as had appeared in his demeanor towards the rebels at Osterwel, Tournay,
and Valenciennes.  He had never permitted the cry of "Vivent les gueux" at his own table, nor
encouraged it in his presence any where else.

Such were the leading features in these memorable cases of what was called high treason.  Trial
there was none.  The tribunal was incompetent; the prisoners were without advocates; the government
evidence was concealed; the testimony for the defence was excluded; and the cause was finally
decided before a thousandth part of its merits could have been placed under the eyes of the
judge who gave the sentence.

But it is almost puerile to speak of the matter in the terms usually applicable to state trials.
The case had been settled in Madrid long before the arrest of the prisoners in Brussels.  The
sentence, signed by Philip in blank, had been brought in Alva's portfolio from Spain.  The
proceedings were a mockery, and, so far as any effect upon public opinion was concerned, might
as well have been omitted.  If the gentlemen had been shot in the court-yard of Jasse-house,
by decree of a drum-head court-martial, an hour after their arrest, the rights of the provinces
and the sentiments of humanity would not have been outraged more utterly. Every constitutional
and natural right was violated from first to last. This certainly was not a novelty.  Thousands
of obscure individuals, whose relations and friends were not upon thrones and in high places,
but in booths and cellars, and whose fate therefore did not send a shudder of sympathy throughout
Europe, had already been sacrificed by the Blood tribunal.  Still this great case presented
a colossal emblem of the condition in which the Netherlands were now gasping.  It was a monumental
exhibition of the truth which thousands had already learned to their cost, that law and justice
were abrogated throughout the land.  The country was simply under martial law--the entire population
under sentence of death.  The whole civil power was in Alva's hand; the whole responsibility
in Alva's breast.  Neither the most ignoble nor the most powerful could lift their heads in
the sublime desolation which was sweeping the country.  This was now proved beyond peradventure.
A miserable cobbler or weaver might be hurried from his shop to the scaffold, invoking the
'jus de non evocando' till he was gagged, but the Emperor would not stoop from his throne,
nor electors palatine and powerful nobles rush to his rescue; but in behalf of these prisoners
the most august hands and voices of Christendom had been lifted up at the foot of Philip's
throne; and their supplications had proved as idle as the millions of tears and death-cries
which had beep shed or uttered in the lowly places of the land.  It was obvious; then, that
all intercession must thereafter be useless.  Philip was fanatically impressed with his mission.
His viceroy was possessed by his loyalty as by a demon.  In this way alone, that conduct which
can never be palliated may at least be comprehended.  It was Philip's enthusiasm to embody
the wrath of God against heretics.  It was Alva's enthusiasm to embody the wrath of Philip.
Narrow-minded, isolated, seeing only that section of the world which was visible through the
loop-hole of the fortress in which Nature had imprisoned him for life, placing his glory in
unconditional obedience to his superior, questioning nothing, doubting nothing, fearing nothing,
the viceroy accomplished his work of hell with all the tranquillity of an angel.  An iron will,
which clove through every obstacle; adamantine fortitude, which sustained without flinching
a mountain of responsibility sufficient to crush a common nature, were qualities which, united
to, his fanatical obedience, made him a man for Philip's work such as could not have been found
again in the world.

The case, then, was tried before a tribunal which was not only incompetent, under the laws
of the land, but not even a court of justice in any philosophical or legal sense.  Constitutional
and municipal law were not more outraged in its creation, than all national and natural maxims.

The reader who has followed step by step the career of the two distinguished victims through
the perilous days of Margaret's administration, is sufficiently aware of the amount of treason
with which they are chargeable.  It would be an insult to common sense for us to set forth,
in full, the injustice of their sentence.  Both were guiltless towards the crown; while the
hands of one, on the contrary, were deeply dyed in the blood of the people.  This truth was
so self-evident, that even a member of the Blood-Council, Pierre Arsens, president of Artois,
addressed an elaborate memoir to the Duke of Alva, criticising the case according to the rules
of law, and maintaining that Egmont, instead of deserving punishment, was entitled to a signal
reward.

So much for the famous treason of Counts Egmont and Horn, so far as regards the history of
the proceedings and the merits of the case.  The last act of the tragedy was precipitated by
occurrences which must be now narrated.

The Prince of Orange had at last thrown down the gauntlet.  Proscribed, outlawed, with his
Netherland property confiscated, and his eldest child kidnapped, he saw sufficient personal
justification for at last stepping into the lists, the avowed champion of a nation's wrongs.
Whether the revolution was to be successful, or to be disastrously crushed; whether its result
would be to place him upon a throne or a scaffold, not even he, the deep-revolving and taciturn
politician, could possibly foresee. The Reformation, in which he took both a political and
a religious interest, might prove a sufficient lever in his hands for the overthrow of Spanish
power in the Netherlands.  The inquisition might roll back upon his country and himself, crushing
them forever.  The chances seemed with the inquisition.  The Spaniards, under the first chieftain
in Europe, were encamped and entrenched in the provinces.  The Huguenots had just made their
fatal peace in France, to the prophetic dissatisfaction of Coligny.  The leading men of liberal
sentiments in the Netherlands were captive or in exile.  All were embarrassed by the confiscations
which, in anticipation of sentence, had severed the nerves of war.  The country was terror-stricken;
paralyzed, motionless, abject, forswearing its convictions, and imploring only life.  At this
moment William of Orange reappeared upon the scene.

He replied to the act of condemnation, which had been pronounced against him in default, by
a published paper, of moderate length and great eloquence.  He had repeatedly offered to place
himself, he said, upon trial before a competent court.  As a Knight of the Fleece, as a member
of the Holy Roman Empire, as a sovereign prince, he could acknowledge no tribunal save the
chapters of the knights or of the realm.  The Emperor's personal intercession with Philip had
been employed in vain, to obtain the adjudication of his case by either.  It would be both
death and degradation on his part to acknowledge the jurisdiction of the infamous Council of
Blood.  He scorned, he said, to plead his cause "before he knew not what base knaves, not fit
to be the valets of his companions and himself."

He appealed therefore to the judgment of the world.  He published not an elaborate argument,
but a condensed and scathing statement of the outrages which had been practised upon him. 
He denied that he had been a party to the Compromise.  He denied that he had been concerned
in the Request, although he denounced with scorn the tyranny which could treat a petition to
government as an act of open war against the sovereign. He spoke of Granvelle with unmeasured
wrath.  He maintained that his own continuance in office had been desired by the cardinal,
in order that his personal popularity might protect the odious designs of the government. The
edicts, the inquisition, the persecution, the new bishoprics, had been the causes of the tumults.
He concluded with a burst of indignation against Philip's conduct toward himself.  The monarch
had forgotten his services and those of his valiant ancestors.  He had robbed him of honor,
he had robbed him of his son--both dearer to him than life.  By thus doing he had degraded
himself more than he had injured him, for he had broken all his royal oaths and obligations.

The paper was published early in the summer of 1568.  At about the same time, the Count of
Hoogstraaten published a similar reply to the act of condemnation with which he had been visited.
He defended himself mainly upon the ground, that all the crimes of which he stood arraigned
had been committed in obedience to the literal instructions of the Duchess of Parma, after
her accord with the confederates.

The Prince now made the greatest possible exertions to raise funds and troops.  He had many
meetings with influential individuals in Germany. The Protestant princes, particularly the
Landgrave of Hesse and the Elector of Saxony, promised him assistance.  He brought all his
powers of eloquence and of diplomacy to make friends for the cause which he had now boldly
espoused.  The high-born Demosthenes electrified large assemblies by his indignant invectives
against the Spanish Philip.  He excelled even his royal antagonist in the industrious subtlety
with which he began to form a thousand combinations.  Swift, secret, incapable of fatigue,
this powerful and patient intellect sped to and fro, disentangling the perplexed skein where
all had seemed so hopelessly confused, and gradually unfolding broad schemes of a symmetrical
and regenerated polity.  He had high correspondents and higher hopes in England.  He was already
secretly or openly in league with half the sovereigns of Germany. The Huguenots of France looked
upon him as their friend, and on Louis of Nassau as their inevitable chieftain, were Coligny
destined to fall.  He was in league with all the exiled and outlawed nobles of the Netherlands.
By his orders recruits were daily enlisted, without sound of drum.  He granted a commission
to his brother Louis, one of the most skilful and audacious soldiers of the age, than whom
the revolt could not have found a more determined partisan, nor the Prince a more faithful
lieutenant.

This commission, which was dated Dillenburg, 6th April, 1568, was a somewhat startling document.
It authorized the Count to levy troops and wage war against Philip, strictly for Philip's good.
The fiction of loyalty certainly never went further.  The Prince of Orange made known to all
"to whom those presents should come," that through the affection which he bore the gracious
King, he purposed to expel his Majesty's forces from the Netherlands.  "To show our love for
the monarch and his hereditary provinces," so ran the commission, "to prevent the desolation
hanging over the country by the ferocity of the Spaniards, to maintain the privileges sworn
to by his Majesty and his predecessors, to prevent the extirpation of all religion by the edicts,
and to save the sons and daughters of the land from abject slavery, we have requested our dearly
beloved brother Louis Nassau to enrol as many troops as he shall think necessary."

Van der Bergh, Hoogstraaten, and others, provided with similar powers, were also actively engaged
in levying troops; but the right hand of the revolt was Count Louis, as his illustrious brother
was its head and heart.  Two hundred thousand crowns was the sum which the Prince considered
absolutely necessary for organizing the army with which he contemplated making an entrance
into the Netherlands.  Half this amount had been produced by the cities of Antwerp, Amsterdam,
Leyden, Harlem, Middelburg, Flushing, and other towns, as well as by refugee merchants in England.
The other half was subscribed by individuals.  The Prince himself contributed 50,000 florins,
Hoogstraaten 30,000, Louis of Nassau 10,000, Culemberg 30,000, Van der Bergh 30,000, the Dowager-countess
Horn 10,000, and other persons in less proportion.  Count John of Nassau also pledged his estates
to raise a large sum for the cause.  The Prince himself sold all his jewels, plate, tapestry,
and other furniture, which were of almost regal magnificence.  Not an enthusiast, but a deliberate,
cautious man, he now staked his all upon the hazard, seemingly so desperate.  The splendor
of his station has been sufficiently depicted. His luxury, his fortune, his family, his life,
his children, his honor, all were now ventured, not with the recklessness of a gambler, but
with the calm conviction of a statesman.

A private and most audacious attempt to secure the person: of Alva and the possession of Brussels
had failed.  He was soon, however, called upon to employ all his energies against the open
warfare which was now commenced.

According to the plan of the Prince, the provinces were to be attacked simultaneously, in three
places, by his lieutenants, while he himself was waiting in the neighborhood of Cleves, ready
for a fourth assault.  An army of Huguenots and refugees was to enter Artois upon the frontier
of France; a second, under Hoogstraaten, was to operate between the Rhine and the Meuse; while
Louis of Nassau was to raise the standard of revolt in Friesland.

The two first adventures were destined to be signally unsuccessful.  A force under Seigneur
de Cocqueville, latest of all, took the field towards the end of June.  It entered the bailiwick
of Hesdin in Artois, was immediately driven across the frontier by the Count de Roeulx, and
cut to pieces at St. Valery by Marechal de Cossis, governor of Picardy. This action was upon
the 18th July.  Of the 2500 men who composed the expedition, scarce 300 escaped.  The few Netherlanders
who were taken prisoners were given to the Spanish government, and, of course, hanged.

The force under the Seigneur de Villars was earlier under arms, and the sooner defeated.  This
luckless gentleman, who had replaced the Count of Hoogstraaten, crossed the frontier of Juliers;
in the neighborhood of Maestricht, by the 20th April.  His force, infantry and cavalry, amounted
to nearly three thousand men.  The object of the enterprise was to, raise the country; and,
if possible, to obtain a foothold by securing an important city.  Roermonde was the first point
of attack, but the attempts, both by stratagem and by force, to secure the town, were fruitless.
The citizens were not ripe for revolt, and refused the army admittance.  While the invaders
were, therefore, endeavoring to fire the gates, they were driven off by the approach of a Spanish
force.

The Duke, so soon as the invasion was known to him, had acted with great promptness.  Don Sancho
de Lodrono and Don Sancho de Avila, with five vanderas of Spanish infantry, three companies
of cavalry, and about three hundred pikemen under Count Eberstein, a force amounting in all
to about 1600 picked troops, had been at once despatched against Villars.  The rebel chieftain,
abandoning his attempt upon Roermonde, advanced towards Erkelens.  Upon the 25th April, between
Erkelens and Dalem, the Spaniards came up with him, and gave him battle.  Villars lost all
his cavalry and two vanderas of his infantry in the encounter.  With the remainder of his force,
amounting to 1300 men, he effected his retreat in good order to Dalem.  Here he rapidly entrenched
himself.  At four in the afternoon, Sancho de Lodrono, at the head of 600 infantry, reached
the spot.  He was unable to restrain the impetuosity of his men, although the cavalry under
Avila, prevented by the difficult nature of the narrow path through which the rebels had retreated,
had not yet arrived.  The enemy were two to one, and were fortified; nevertheless, in half
an hour the entrenchments were carried, and almost every man in the patriot army put to the
sword. Villars himself, with a handful of soldiers, escaped into the town, but was soon afterwards
taken prisoner, with all his followers.  He sullied the cause in which he was engaged by a
base confession of the designs formed by the Prince of Orange--a treachery, however, which
did not save him from the scaffold.  In the course of this day's work, the Spanish lost twenty
men, and the rebels nearly 200.  This portion of the liberating forces had been thus disastrously
defeated on the eve of the entrance of Count Louis into Friesland.

As early as the 22d April, Alva had been informed, by the lieutenant- governor of that province,
that the beggars were mustering in great force in the neighborhood of Embden.  It was evident
that an important enterprise was about to be attempted.  Two days afterwards, Louis of Nassau
entered the provinces, attended by a small body of troops.  His banners blazed with patriotic
inscriptions.  'Nunc aut nunquam, Recuperare aut mori', were the watchwords of his desperate
adventure: "Freedom for fatherland and conscience" was the device which was to draw thousands
to his standard.  On the western wolds of Frisia, he surprised the castle of Wedde, a residence
of the absent Aremberg, stadholder of the province.  Thence he advanced to Appingadam, or Dam,
on the tide waters of the Dollart.  Here he was met by, his younger brother, the gallant Adolphus,
whose days were so nearly numbered, who brought with him a small troop of horse.  At Wedde,
at Dam, and at Slochteren, the standard was set up.  At these three points there daily gathered
armed bodies of troops, voluntary adventurers, peasants with any rustic weapon which they could
find to their hand.  Lieutenant-governor Groesbeck wrote urgently to the Duke, that the beggars
were hourly increasing in force; that the leaders perfectly understood their game; that they
kept their plans a secret, but were fast seducing the heart of the country.

On the 4th May, Louis issued a summons to the magistracy of Groningen, ordering them to send
a deputation to confer with him at Dam.  He was prepared, he said, to show the commission with
which he was provided. He had not entered the country on a mere personal adventure, but had
received orders to raise a sufficient army.  By the help of the eternal God, he was determined,
he said, to extirpate the detestable tyranny of those savage persecutors who had shed so much
Christian blood.  He was resolved to lift up the down-trod privileges, and, to protect the
fugitive, terror-stricken Christians and patriarchs of the country. If the magistrates were
disposed to receive him with friendship, it was well.  Otherwise, he should, with regret, feel
himself obliged to proceed against them, as enemies of his Majesty and of the common weal.

As the result of this summons, Louis received a moderate sum of money, on condition of renouncing
for the moment an attack upon the city.  With this temporary supply he was able to retain a
larger number of the adventurers; who were daily swarming around him.

In the mean time Alva was not idle.  On the 30th April, he wrote to Groesbeck, that he must
take care not to be taken napping; that he must keep his eyes well open until the arrival of
succor, which was already on the way.  He then immediately ordered Count Aremberg, who had
just returned from France on conclusion of hostilities, to hasten to the seat of war.  Five
vanderas of his own regiment; a small body of cavalry, and Braccamonte's Sardinian legion,
making in all a force of nearly 2500 men, were ordered to follow him with the utmost expedition.
Count Meghem, stadholder of Gueldres, with five vanderas of infantry, three of light horse,
and some artillery, composing a total of about 1500 men, was directed to co-operate with Aremberg.
Upon this point the orders of the Governor-general were explicit.  It seemed impossible that
the rabble rout under Louis Nassau could stand a moment before nearly 4000 picked and veteran
troops, but the Duke was earnest in warning his generals not to undervalue the enemy.

On the 7th May, Counts Meghem and Aremberg met and conferred at Arnheim, on their way to Friesland.
It was fully agreed between them, after having heard full reports of the rising in that province,
and of the temper throughout the eastern Netherlands, that it would be rash to attempt any
separate enterprise.  On the 11th, Aremberg reached Vollenhoven, where he was laid up in his
bed with the gout.  Bodies of men, while he lay sick, paraded hourly with fife and drum before
his windows, and discharged pistols and arquebuses across the ditch of the blockhouse where
he was quartered.  On the 18th, Braccamonte, with his legion, arrived by water at Harlingen.
Not a moment more was lost. Aremberg, notwithstanding his gout, which still confined him to
a litter, started at once in pursuit of the enemy.  Passing through Groningen, he collected
all the troops which could be spared..  He also received six pieces of artillery.  Six cannon,
which the lovers of harmony had baptized with the notes of the gamut, 'ut, re, mi, fa, sol,
la', were placed at his disposal by the authorities, and have acquired historical celebrity.
It was, however, ordained that when those musical pieces piped, the Spaniards were not to dance.
On the 22d, followed by his whole force, consisting of Braccamonte's legion, his own four vanderas,
and a troop of Germans, he came in sight of the enemy at Dam.  Louis of Nassau sent out a body
of arquebusiers, about one thousand strong, from the city.  A sharp skirmish ensued, but the
beggars were driven into their entrenchments, with a loss of twenty or thirty men, and nightfall
terminated the contest.

It was beautiful to see, wrote Aremberg to Alva, how brisk and eager were the Spaniards, notwithstanding
the long march which they had that day accomplished.  Time was soon to show how easily immoderate,
valor might swell into a fault.  Meantime, Aremberg quartered his troops in and about Wittewerum
Abbey, close to the little unwalled city of Dam.

On the other hand, Meghem, whose co-operation had been commanded by Alva, and arranged personally
with Aremberg a fortnight before, at Arnheim, had been delayed in his movements.  His troops,
who had received no wages for a long time had mutinied.  A small sum of money, however, sent
from Brussels, quelled this untimely insubordination.  Meghem then set forth to effect his
junction with his colleague, having assured the Governor- general that the war would be ended
in six days.  The beggars had not a stiver, he said, and must disband or be beaten to pieces
as soon as Aremberg and he had joined forces.  Nevertheless he admitted that these same "master-beggars,"
as he called them, might prove too many for either general alone.

Alva, in reply, expressed his confidence that four or five thousand choice troops of Spain
would be enough to make a short war of it, but nevertheless warned his officers of the dangers
of overweening confidence.  He had been informed that the rebels had assumed the red scarf
of the Spanish uniform.  He hoped the stratagem would not save them from broken heads, but
was unwilling that his Majesty's badge should be altered.

He reiterated his commands that no enterprise should be undertaken, except by the whole army
in concert; and enjoined the generals incontinently to hang and strangle all prisoners the
moment they should be taken.

Marching directly northward, Meghem reached Coeverden, some fifty miles from Dam, on the night
of the 22d.  He had informed Aremberg that he might expect him with his infantry and his light
horse in the course of the next day.  On the following morning, the 23d, Aremberg wrote his
last letter to the Duke, promising to send a good account of the beggars within a very few hours.

Louis of Nassau had broken up his camp at Dam about midnight.  Falling back, in a southerly
direction, along the Wold-weg, or forest road, a narrow causeway through a swampy district,
he had taken up a position some three leagues from his previous encampment.  Near the monastery
of Heiliger Lee, or the "Holy Lion," he had chosen his ground.  A little money in hand, ample
promises, and the hopes of booty, had effectually terminated the mutiny, which had also broken
out in his camp.  Assured that Meghem had not yet effected his junction with Aremberg, prepared
to strike, at last, a telling blow for freedom and fatherland, Louis awaited the arrival of
his eager foe.

His position was one of commanding strength and fortunate augury. Heiliger Lee was a wooded
eminence, artificially reared by Premonstrant monks.  It was the only rising ground in that
vast extent of watery pastures, enclosed by the Ems and Lippe--the "fallacious fields" described
by Tacitus.  Here Hermann, first of Teutonic heroes, had dashed out of existence three veteran
legions of tyrant Rome.  Here the spectre of Varus, begrimed and gory, had risen from the morass
to warn Germanicus, who came to avenge him, that Gothic freedom was a dangerous antagonist.
And now, in the perpetual reproductions of history, another German warrior occupied a spot
of vantage in that same perilous region. The tyranny with which he contended strove to be as
universal as that of Rome, and had stretched its wings of conquest into worlds of which the
Caesars had never dreamed.  It was in arms, too, to crush not only the rights of man, but the
rights of God.  The battle of freedom was to be fought not only for fatherland, but for conscience.
The cause was even holier than that which had inspired the arm of Hermann.

Although the swamps of that distant age had been transformed into fruitful pastures, yet the
whole district was moist, deceitful, and dangerous.  The country was divided into squares,
not by hedges but by impassable ditches.  Agricultural entrenchments had long made the country
almost impregnable, while its defences against the ocean rendered almost as good service against
a more implacable human foe.

Aremberg, leading his soldiers along the narrow causeway, in hot pursuit of what they considered
a rabble rout of fugitive beggars, soon reached Winschoten.  Here he became aware of the presence
of his despicable foe. Louis and Adolphus of Nassau, while sitting at dinner in the convent
of the "Holy Lion," had been warned by a friendly peasant of the approach of the Spaniards.
The opportune intelligence had given the patriot general time to make his preparations.  His
earnest entreaties had made his troops ashamed of their mutinous conduct on the preceding day,
and they were now both ready and willing to engage.  The village was not far distant from the
abbey, and in the neighborhood of the abbey Louis of Nassau was now posted.  Behind him was
a wood, on his left a hill of moderate elevation, before him an extensive and swampy field.
In the front of the field was a causeway leading to the abbey.  This was the road which Aremberg
was to traverse.  On the plain which lay between the wood and the hill, the main body of the
beggars were drawn up.  They were disposed in two squares or squadrons, rather deep than wide,
giving the idea of a less number than they actually contained.  The lesser square, in which
were two thousand eight hundred men, was partially sheltered by the hill.  Both were flanked
by musketeers.  On the brow of the hill was a large body of light armed troops, the 'enfans
perdus' of the army.  The cavalry, amounting to not more than three hundred men, was placed
in front, facing the road along which Aremberg was to arrive.

That road was bordered by a wood extending nearly to the front of the hill.  As Aremberg reached
its verge, he brought out his artillery, and opened a fire upon the body of light troops. 
The hill protected a large part of the enemy's body from this attack.  Finding the rebels so
strong in numbers and position, Aremberg was disposed only to skirmish.  He knew better than
did his soldiers the treacherous nature of the ground in front of the enemy.  He saw that it
was one of those districts where peat had been taken out in large squares for fuel, and where
a fallacious and verdant scum upon the surface of deep pools simulated the turf that had been
removed.  He saw that the battle-ground presented to him by his sagacious enemy was one great
sweep of traps and pitfalls.  Before he could carry the position, many men must necessarily
be engulfed.

He paused for an instant.  He was deficient in cavalry, having only Martinengo's troop, hardly
amounting to four hundred men. He was sure of Meghem's arrival within twenty-four hours.  If,
then, he could keep the rebels in check, without allowing them any opportunity to disperse,
he should be able, on the morrow, to cut them to pieces, according to the plan agreed upon
a fortnight before.  But the Count had to contend with a double obstacle.  His soldiers were
very hot, his enemy very cool.  The Spaniards, who had so easily driven a thousand musketeers
from behind their windmill, the evening before, who had seen the whole rebel force decamp in
hot haste on the very night of their arrival before Dam, supposed themselves in full career
of victory.  Believing that the name alone of the old legions had stricken terror to the hearts
of the beggars, and that no resistance was possible to Spanish arms, they reviled their general
for his caution.  His reason for delay was theirs for hurry.  Why should Meghem's loitering
and mutinous troops, arriving at the eleventh hour, share in the triumph and the spoil?  No
man knew the country better than Aremberg, a native of the Netherlands, the stadholder of the
province.  Cowardly or heretical motives alone could sway him, if he now held them back in
the very hour of victory.  Inflamed beyond endurance by these taunts, feeling his pride of
country touched to the quick, and willing to show that a Netherlander would lead wherever Spaniards
dared to follow, Aremberg allowed himself to commit the grave error for which he was so deeply
to atone.  Disregarding the dictates of his own experience and the arrangements of his superior,
he yielded to the braggart humor of his soldiers, which he had not, like Alva, learned to moderate
or to despise.

In the mean, time, the body of light troops which had received the fire from the musical pieces
of Groningen was seen to waver.  The artillery was then brought beyond the cover of the wood,
and pointed more fully upon the two main squares of the enemy.  A few shots told.  Soon afterward
the 'enfans perdus' retreated helter-skelter, entirely deserting their position.

This apparent advantage, which was only a preconcerted stratagem, was too much for the fiery
Spaniards.  They rushed. merrily forward to attack the stationary squares, their general being
no longer able, to restrain their impetuosity.  In a moment the whole van-guard had plunged
into the morass.  In a few minutes more they were all helplessly and hopelessly struggling
in the pools, while the musketeers of the enemy poured in a deadly fire upon them, without
wetting the soles of their own feet.  The pikemen, too, who composed the main body of the larger
square, now charged upon all who were extricating themselves from their entanglement, and drove
them back again to a muddy death.  Simultaneously, the lesser patriot squadron, which had so
long been sheltered, emerged from the cover of the hill, made a detour around its base, enveloped
the rear- guard of the Spaniards before they could advance to the succor of their perishing
comrades, and broke them to pieces almost instantly.  Gonzalo de Braccamonte, the very Spanish
colonel who had been foremost in denunciation of Aremberg, for his disposition to delay the
contest, was now the first to fly.  To his bad conduct was ascribed the loss of the day.  The
anger of Alva was so high, when he was informed of the incident, that he would have condemned
the officer to death but for the intercession of his friends and countrymen.  The rout was
sudden and absolute.  The foolhardiness of the Spaniards had precipitated them into the pit
which their enemies had dug.  The day, was lost.  Nothing was left for Aremberg but to perish
with honor.  Placing himself at the head of his handful of cavalry, he dashed into the melee.
The shock was sustained by young Adolphus of Nassau, at the head of an equal number of riders.
Each leader singled out the other.  They met as "captains of might" should do, in the very
midst of the affray.  Aremberg, receiving and disregarding a pistol shot from his adversary,
laid Adolphus dead at his feet, with a bullet through his body and a sabre cut on his head.
Two troopers in immediate attendance upon the young Count shared the same fate from the same
hand.  Shortly afterward, the horse of Aremberg, wounded by a musket ball, fell to the ground.
A few devoted followers lifted the charger to his legs and the bleeding rider to his saddle.
They endeavored to bear their wounded general from the scene of action. The horse staggered
a few paces and fell dead.  Aremberg disengaged himself from his body, and walked a few paces
to the edge of a meadow near the road.  Here, wounded in the action, crippled by the disease
which had so long tormented him, and scarcely able to sustain longer the burthen of his armor,
he calmly awaited his fate.  A troop of the enemy advanced soon afterwards, and Aremberg fell,
covered with wounds, fighting like a hero of Homer, single-handed, against a battalion, with
a courage worthy a better cause and a better fate.  The sword by which he received his final
death-blow was that of the Seigneur do Haultain.  That officer having just seen his brother
slain before his eyes, forgot the respect due to unsuccessful chivalry.

The battle was scarcely finished when an advancing trumpet was heard. The sound caused the
victors to pause in their pursuit, and enabled a remnant of the conquered Spaniards to escape.
Meghem's force was thought to be advancing.  That general had indeed arrived, but he was alone.
He had reached Zuidlaren, a village some four leagues from the scene of action, on the noon
of that day.  Here he had found a letter from Aremberg, requesting him to hasten.  He had done
so.  His troops, however, having come from Coevorden that morning, were unable to accomplish
so long a march in addition.  The Count, accompanied by a few attendants, reached the neighborhood
of Heiliger Lee only in time to meet with some of the camp sutlers and other fugitives, from
whom he learned the disastrous news of the defeat.  Finding that all was lost, he very properly
returned to Zuidlaren, from which place he made the best of his way to Groningen.  That important
city, the key of Friesland, he was thus enabled to secure.  The troops which he brought, in
addition to the four German vanderas of Schaumburg, already quartered there, were sufficient
to protect it against the ill-equipped army of Louis Nassau.

The patriot leader had accomplished, after all, but a barren victory. He had, to be sure, destroyed
a number of Spaniards, amounting, according to the different estimates, from five hundred to
sixteen hundred men. He had also broken up a small but veteran army.  More than all, he had
taught the Netherlanders, by this triumphant termination to a stricken field, that the choice
troops of Spain were not invincible.  But the moral effect of the victory was the only permanent
one.  The Count's badly paid troops could with difficulty be kept together.  He had no sufficient
artillery to reduce the city whose possession would have proved so important to the cause.
Moreover, in common with the Prince of Orange and all his brethren, he had been called to mourn
for the young and chivalrous Adolphus, whose life-blood had stained the laurels of this first
patriot victory.  Having remained, and thus wasted the normal three days upon the battle-field,
Louis now sat down before Groningen, fortifying and entrenching himself in a camp within cannonshot
of the city.

On the 23rd we have seen that Aremberg had written, full of confidence, to the Governor-general,
promising soon to send him good news of the beggars.  On the 26th, Count Meghem wrote that,
having spoken with a man who had helped to place Aremberg in his coffin, he could hardly entertain
any farther doubt as to his fate.

The wrath of the Duke was even greater than his surprise.  Like Augustus, he called in vain
on the dead commander for his legions, but prepared himself to inflict a more rapid and more
terrible vengeance than the Roman's.  Recognizing the gravity of his situation, he determined
to take the field in person, and to annihilate this insolent chieftain who had dared not only
to cope with, but to conquer his veteran regiments.  But before he could turn his back upon
Brussels, many deeds were to be done. His measures now followed each other in breathless succession,
fulminating and blasting at every stroke.  On the 28th May, he issued an edict, banishing,
on pain of death, the Prince of Orange, Louis Nassau, Hoogstraaten, Van den Berg, and others,
with confiscation of all their property.  At the same time he razed the Culemburg Palace to
the ground, and erected a pillar upon its ruins, commemorating the accursed conspiracy which
had been engendered within its walls.  On the 1st June, eighteen prisoners of distinction,
including the two barons Batenburg, Maximilian Kock, Blois de Treslong and others, were executed
upon the Horse Market, in Brussels.  In the vigorous language of Hoogstraaten, this horrible
tragedy was enacted directly before the windows of that "cruel animal, Noircarmes," who, in
company of his friend, Berlaymont, and the rest of the Blood-Council, looked out upon the shocking
spectacle.  The heads of the victims were exposed upon stakes, to which also their bodies were
fastened.  Eleven of these victims were afterward deposited, uncoffined, in unconsecrated ground;
the other seven were left unburied to moulder on the gibbet.  On the 2d June, Villars, the
leader in the Daalem rising, suffered on the scaffold, with three others.  On the 3d, Counts
Egmont and Horn were brought in a carriage from Ghent to Brussels, guarded by ten companies
of infantry and one of cavalry.  They were then lodged in the "Brood-huis" opposite the Town
Hall, on the great square of Brussels.  On the 4th, Alva having, as he solemnly declared before
God and the world, examined thoroughly the mass of documents appertaining to those two great
prosecutions which had only been closed three days before, pronounced sentence against the
illustrious prisoners.  These documents of iniquity signed and sealed by the Duke, were sent
to the Blood-Council, where they were read by Secretary Praets. The signature of Philip was
not wanting, for the sentences had been drawn upon blanks signed by the monarch, of which the
Viceroy had brought a whole trunk full from Spain.  The sentence against Egmont declared very
briefly that the Duke of Alva, having read all the papers and evidence in the case, had found
the Count guilty of high treason.  It was proved that Egmont had united with the confederates;
that he had been a party to the accursed conspiracy of the Prince of Orange; that he had taken
the rebel nobles under his protection, and that he had betrayed the Government and the Holy
Catholic Church by his conduct in Flanders.  Therefore the Duke condemned him to be executed
by the sword on the following day, and decreed that his head should be placed on high in a
public place, there to remain until the Duke should otherwise direct.  The sentence against
Count Horn was similar in language and purport.

That afternoon the Duke sent for the Bishop of Ypres, The prelate arrived at dusk.  As soon
as he presented himself, Alva informed him of the sentence which had just been pronounced,
and ordered him to convey the intelligence to the prisoners.  He further charged him with the
duty of shriving the victims, and preparing their souls for death.  The bishop fell on his
knees, aghast at the terrible decree.  He implored the Governor-General to have mercy upon
the two unfortunate nobles.  If their lives could not be spared, he prayed him at any rate
to grant delay. With tears and earnest supplications the prelate endeavored to avert or to
postpone the doom which had been pronounced.  It was in vain.  The sentence, inflexible as
destiny, had been long before ordained.  Its execution had been but hastened by the temporary
triumph of rebellion in Friesland.  Alva told the Bishop roughly that he had not been summoned
to give advice.  Delay or pardon was alike impossible.  He was to act as confessor to the criminals,
not as councillor to the Viceroy.  The Bishop, thus rebuked, withdrew to accomplish his melancholy
mission. Meanwhile, on the same evening, the miserable Countess of Egmont had been appalled
by rumors, too vague for belief, too terrible to be slighted. She was in the chamber of Countess
Aremberg, with whom she had come to condole for the death of the Count, when the order for
the immediate execution of her own husband was announced to her.  She hastened to the presence
of the Governor-General.  The Princess Palatine, whose ancestors had been emperors, remembered
only that she was a wife and a mother.  She fell at the feet of the man who controlled the
fate of her husband, and implored his mercy in humble and submissive terms.  The Duke, with
calm and almost incredible irony, reassured the Countess by the information that, on the morrow,
her husband was certainly to be released.  With this ambiguous phrase, worthy the paltering
oracles of antiquity, the wretched woman was obliged to withdraw.  Too soon afterward the horrible
truth of the words was revealed to her--words of doom, which she had mistaken for consolation.

An hour before midnight the Bishop of Ypres reached Egmont's prison. The Count was confined
in a chamber on the second story of the Brood-huis, the mansion of the crossbowmen's guild,
in that corner of the building which rests on a narrow street running back from the great square.
He was aroused from his sleep by the approach of his visitor.  Unable to speak, but indicating
by the expression of his features the occurrence of a great misfortune, the Bishop, soon after
his entrance, placed the paper given to him by Alva in Egmont's hands.  The unfortunate noble
thus suddenly received the information that his death-sentence had been pronounced, and that
its execution was fixed for the next morning. He read the paper through without flinching,
and expressed astonishment rather than dismay at its tidings.  Exceedingly sanguine by nature,
he had never believed, even after his nine months' imprisonment, in a fatal termination to
the difficulties in which he was involved.  He was now startled both at the sudden condemnation
which had followed his lingering trial, and at the speed with which his death was to fulfil
the sentence. He asked the Bishop, with many expressions of amazement, whether pardon was impossible;
whether delay at least might not be obtained?  The prelate answered by a faithful narrative
of the conversation which had just occurred between Alva and himself.  Egmont, thus convinced
of his inevitable doom, then observed to his companion, with exquisite courtesy, that, since
he was to die, he rendered thanks both to God and to the Duke that his last moments were to
be consoled by so excellent a father confessor.

Afterwards, with a natural burst of indignation, he exclaimed that it was indeed a cruel and
unjust sentence.  He protested that he had never in his whole life wronged his Majesty; certainly
never so deeply as to deserve such a punishment.  All that he had done had been with loyal
intentions.  The King's true interest had been his constant aim. Nevertheless, if he had fallen
into error, he prayed to God that his death might wipe away his misdeeds, and that his name
might not be dishonored, nor his children brought to shame.  His beloved wife and innocent
children were to endure misery enough by his death and the confiscation of his estates.  It
was at least due to his long services that they should be spared further suffering.  He then
asked his father confessor what advice he had to give touching his present conduct.  The Bishop
replied by an exhortation, that he should turn himself to God; that he should withdraw his
thoughts entirely from all earthly interests, and prepare himself for the world beyond the
grave.  He accepted the advice, and kneeling before the Bishop, confessed himself.  He then
asked to receive the sacrament, which the Bishop administered, after the customary mass.  Egmont
asked what prayer would be most appropriate at the hour of execution.  His confessor replied
that there was none more befitting than the one which Jesus had taught his disciples--Our Father,
which art in heaven.

Some conversation ensued, in which the Count again expressed his gratitude that his parting
soul had been soothed by these pious and friendly offices.  By a revulsion of feeling, he then
bewailed again the sad fate of his wife and of his young children.  The Bishop entreated him
anew to withdraw his mind from such harrowing reflections, and to give himself entirely to
God.  Overwhelmed with grief, Egmont exclaimed with natural and simple pathos--"Alas! how miserable
and frail is our nature, that, when we should think of God only, we are unable to shut out
the images of wife and children."

Recovering from his emotion, and having yet much time, he sat down and wrote with perfect self-possession
two letters, one to Philip and one to Alva.  The celebrated letter to the King was as follows:

     "SIRE,--I have learned, this evening, the sentence which your
     Majesty has been pleased to pronounce upon me.  Although I have
     never had a thought, and believe myself never to have done a deed,
     which could tend to the prejudice of your Majesty's person or
     service, or to the detriment of our true ancient and Catholic
     religion, nevertheless I take patience to bear that which it has
     pleased the good God to send.  If, during these troubles in the
     Netherlands, I have done or permitted aught which had a different
     appearance, it has been with the true and good intent to serve God
     and your Majesty, and the necessity of the times.  Therefore, I pray
     your Majesty to forgive me, and to have compassion on my poor wife,
     my children, and my servants; having regard to my past services.
     In which hope I now commend myself to the mercy of God.

               "From Brussels,
                    "Ready to die, this 5th June, 1568,
     "Your Majesty's very humble and loyal vassal and servant,
                                             "LAMORAL D'EGMONT."

Having thus kissed the murderous hand which smote him, he handed the letter, stamped rather
with superfluous loyalty than with Christian forgiveness, to the Bishop, with a request that
he would forward it to its destination, accompanied by a letter from his own hand.  This duty
the Bishop solemnly promised to fulfil.

Facing all the details of his execution with the fortitude which belonged to his character,
he now took counsel with his confessor as to the language proper for him to hold from the scaffold
to the assembled people.  The Bishop, however, strongly dissuaded him from addressing the multitude
at all.

The persons farthest removed, urged the priest, would not hear the words, while the Spanish
troops in the immediate vicinity would not understand them.  It seemed, therefore, the part
of wisdom and of dignity for him to be silent, communing only with his God.  The Count assented
to this reasoning, and abandoned his intention of saying a few farewell words to the people,
by many of whom he believed himself tenderly beloved.  He now made many preparations for the
morrow, in order that his thoughts, in the last moments, might not be distracted by mechanical
details, cutting the collar from his doublet and from his shirt with his own hands, in order
that those of the hangman might have no excuse for contaminating his person.  The rest of the
night was passed in prayer and meditation.

Fewer circumstances concerning the last night of Count Horn's life have been preserved.  It
is, however, well ascertained that the Admiral received the sudden news of his condemnation
with absolute composure.  He was assisted at his devotional exercises in prison by the curate
of La Chapelle.

During the night, the necessary preparations for the morning tragedy had been made in the great
square of Brussels.  It was the intention of government to strike terror to the heart of the
people by the exhibition of an impressive and appalling spectacle.  The absolute and irresponsible
destiny which ruled them was to be made manifest by the immolation of these two men, so elevated
by rank, powerful connexion, and distinguished service.

The effect would be heightened by the character of the, locality where the gloomy show was
to be presented.  The great square of Brussels had always a striking and theatrical aspect.
Its architectural effects, suggesting in some degree the meretricious union between Oriental
and a corrupt Grecian art, accomplished in the medieval midnight, have amazed the eyes of many
generations.  The splendid Hotel de Ville, with its daring spire and elaborate front, ornamented
one side of the place; directly opposite was the graceful but incoherent facade of the Brood-
huis, now the last earthly resting-place of the two distinguished victims, while grouped around
these principal buildings rose the fantastic palaces of the Archers, Mariners, and of other
guilds, with their festooned walls and toppling gables bedizened profusely with emblems, statues,
and quaint decorations.  The place had been alike the scene of many a brilliant tournament
and of many a bloody execution. Gallant knights had contended within its precincts, while bright
eyes rained influence from all those picturesque balconies and decorated windows.  Martyrs
to religious and to political liberty had, upon the same spot, endured agonies which might
have roused every stone of its pavement to mutiny or softened them to pity.  Here Egmont himself,
in happier days, had often borne away the prize of skill or of valor, the cynosure of every
eye; and hence, almost in the noon of a life illustrated by many brilliant actions, he was
to be sent, by the hand of tyranny, to his great account.

On the morning of the 5th of June, three thousand Spanish troops were drawn up in battle array
around a scaffold which had been erected in the centre of the square.  Upon this scaffold,
which was covered with black cloth, were placed two velvet cushions, two iron spikes, and a
small table.  Upon the table was a silver crucifix.  The provost-marshal, Spelle, sat on horseback
below, with his red wand in his hand, little dreaming that for him a darker doom was reserved
than that of which he was now the minister.  The executioner was concealed beneath the draperies
of the scaffold.

At eleven o'clock, a company of Spanish soldiers, led by Julian Romero and Captain Salinas,
arrived at Egmont's chamber.  The Count was ready for them.  They were about to bind his hands,
but he warmly protested against the indignity, and, opening the folds of his robe, showed them
that he had himself shorn off his collars, and made preparations for his death.  His request
was granted.  Egmont, with the Bishop at his side, then walked with a steady step the short
distance which separated him from the place of execution.  Julian Romero and the guard followed
him. On his way, he read aloud the fifty-first Psalm: "Hear my cry, O God, and give ear unto
my prayer!"  He seemed to have selected these scriptural passages as a proof that, notwithstanding
the machinations of his enemies, and the cruel punishment to which they had led him, loyalty
to his sovereign was as deeply rooted and as religious a sentiment in his bosom as devotion
to his God.  "Thou wilt prolong the King's life; and his years as many generations.  He shall
abide before God for ever! O prepare mercy and truth which may preserve him."  Such was the
remarkable prayer of the condemned traitor on his way to the block.

Having ascended the scaffold, he walked across it twice or thrice.  He was dressed in a tabard
or robe of red damask, over which was thrown a short black mantle, embroidered in gold.  He
had a black silk hat, with black and white plumes, on his head, and held a handkerchief in
his hand. As he strode to and fro, he expressed a bitter regret that he had not been permitted
to die, sword in hand, fighting for his country and his king.  Sanguine to the last, he passionately
asked Romero, whether the sentence was really irrevocable, whether a pardon was not even then
to be granted.  The marshal shrugged his shoulders, murmuring a negative reply. Upon this,
Egmont gnashed his teeth together, rather in rage than despair.  Shortly afterward commanding
himself again, he threw aside his robe and mantle, and took the badge of the Golden Fleece
from his neck. Kneeling, then, upon one of the cushions, he said the Lord's Prayer aloud, and
requested the Bishop, who knelt at his side, to repeat it thrice.  After this, the prelate
gave him the silver crucifix to kiss, and then pronounced his blessing upon him.  This done,
the Count rose again to his feet, laid aside his hat and handkerchief, knelt again upon the
cushion, drew a little cap over his eyes, and, folding his hands together, cried with a loud
voice, "Lord, into Thy hands I commit my spirit."  The executioner then suddenly appeared,
and severed his head from his shoulders at a single blow.

A moment of shuddering silence succeeded the stroke.  The whole vast assembly seemed to have
felt it in their own hearts.  Tears fell from the eyes even of the Spanish soldiery, for they
knew and honored Egmont as a valiant general.  The French embassador, Mondoucet, looking upon
the scene from a secret place, whispered that he had now seen the head fall before which France
had twice trembled.  Tears were even seen upon the iron cheek of Alva, as, from a window in
a house directly opposite the scaffold, he looked out upon the scene.

A dark cloth was now quickly thrown over the body and the blood, and, within a few minutes,
the Admiral was seen advancing through the crowd. His bald head was uncovered, his hands were
unbound.  He calmly saluted such of his acquaintances as he chanced to recognize upon his path.
Under a black cloak, which he threw off when he had ascended the scaffold, he wore a plain,
dark doublet, and he did not, like Egmont, wear the insignia of the Fleece.  Casting his eyes
upon the corpse, which lay covered with the dark cloth, he asked if it were the body of Egmont.
Being answered in the affirmative, he muttered a few words in Spanish, which were not distinctly
audible.  His attention was next caught by the sight of his own coat of arms reversed, and
he expressed anger at this indignity to his escutcheon, protesting that he had not deserved
the insult.  He then spoke a few words to the crowd below, wishing them happiness, and begging
them to pray for his soul.  He did not kiss the crucifix, but he knelt upon the scaffold to
pray, and was assisted in his devotions by the Bishop of Ypres.  When they were concluded,
he rose again to his feet.  Then drawing a Milan cap completely over his face, and uttering,
in Latin, the same invocation which Egmont had used, he submitted his neck to the stroke.

Egmont had obtained, as a last favor, that his execution should precede that of his friend.
Deeming himself in part to blame for Horn's reappearance in Brussels after the arrival of Alva,
and for his, death, which was the result, he wished to be spared the pang of seeing him dead.
Gemma Frisius, the astrologer who had cast the horoscope of Count Horn at his birth, had come
to him in the most solemn manner to warn him against visiting Brussels.  The Count had answered
stoutly that he placed his trust in God, and that, moreover, his friend Egmont was going thither
also, who had engaged that no worse fate should befal the one of them than the other.

The heads of both sufferers were now exposed for two hours upon the iron stakes.  Their bodies,
placed in coffins, remained during the same interval upon the scaffold.  Meantime, notwithstanding
the presence of the troops, the populace could not be restrained from tears and from execrations.
Many crowded about the scaffold, and dipped their handkerchiefs in the blood, to be preserved
afterwards as memorials of the crime and as ensigns of revenge.

The bodies were afterwards delivered to their friends.  A stately procession of the guilds,
accompanied by many of the clergy, conveyed their coffins to the church of Saint Gudule.  Thence
the body of Egmont was carried to the convent of Saint Clara, near the old Brussels gate, where
it was embalmed.  His escutcheon and banners were hung upon the outward wall of his residence,
by order of the Countess.  By command of Alva they were immediately torn down.  His remains
were afterwards conveyed to his city of Sottegem, in Flanders, where they were interred. Count
Horn was entombed at Kempen.  The bodies had been removed from the scaffold at two o'clock.
The heads remained exposed between burning torches for two hours longer.  They were then taken
down, enclosed in boxes, and, as it was generally supposed, despatched to Madrid.  The King
was thus enabled to look upon the dead faces of his victims without the trouble of a journey
to the provinces.

Thus died Philip Montmorency, Count of Horn, and Lamoral of Egmont, Prince of Gaveren.  The
more intense sympathy which seemed to attach itself to the fate of Egmont, rendered the misfortune
of his companion in arms and in death comparatively less interesting.

Egmont is a great historical figure, but he was certainly not a great man.  His execution remains
an enduring monument not only of Philip's cruelty and perfidy but of his dullness.  The King
had everything to hope from Egmont and nothing to fear.  Granvelle knew the man well, and,
almost to the last, could not believe in the possibility of so unparalleled a blunder as that
which was to make a victim, a martyr, and a popular idol of a personage brave indeed, but incredibly
vacillating and inordinately vain, who, by a little management, might have been converted into
a most useful instrument for the royal purposes.

It is not necessary to recapitulate the events of Egmont's career. Step by step we have studied
his course, and at no single period have we discovered even a germ of those elements which
make the national champion.  His pride of order rendered him furious at the insolence of Granvelle,
and caused him to chafe under his dominion.  His vanity of high rank and of distinguished military
service made him covet the highest place under the Crown, while his hatred of those by whom
he considered himself defrauded of his claims, converted him into a malcontent.  He had no
sympathy with the people, but he loved, as a grand Seignior, to be looked up to and admired
by a gaping crowd.  He was an unwavering Catholic, held sectaries in utter loathing, and, after
the image-breaking, took a positive pleasure in hanging ministers, together with their congregations,
and in pressing the besieged Christians of Valenciennes to extremities.  Upon more than one
occasion he pronounced his unequivocal approval of the infamous edicts, and he exerted himself
at times to enforce them within his province.  The transitory impression made upon his mind
by the lofty nature of Orange was easily effaced in Spain by court flattery and by royal bribes.
Notwithstanding the coldness, the rebuffs, and the repeated warnings which might have saved
him from destruction, nothing could turn him at last from the fanatic loyalty towards which,
after much wavering, his mind irrevocably pointed. His voluntary humiliation as a general,
a grandee, a Fleming, and a Christian before the insolent Alva upon his first arrival, would
move our contempt were it not for the gentler emotions suggested by the infatuated nobleman's
doom.  Upon the departure of Orange, Egmont was only too eager to be employed by Philip in
any work which the monarch could find for him to do.  Yet this was the man whom Philip chose,
through the executioner's sword, to convert into a popular idol, and whom Poetry has loved
to contemplate as a romantic champion of freedom.

As for Horn, details enough have likewise been given of his career to enable the reader thoroughly
to understand the man.  He was a person of mediocre abilities and thoroughly commonplace character.
His high rank and his tragic fate are all which make him interesting.  He had little love for
court or people.  Broken in fortunes, he passed his time mainly in brooding over the ingratitude
of Charles and Philip, and in complaining bitterly of the disappointments to which their policy
had doomed him.  He cared nothing for Cardinalists or confederates.  He disliked Brederode,
he detested Granvelle.  Gloomy and morose, he went to bed, while the men who were called his
fellow-conspirators were dining and making merry in the same house with himself: He had as
little sympathy with the cry of "Vivent les gueux" as for that of "Vive le Roy." The most interesting
features in his character are his generosity toward his absent brother and the manliness with
which, as Montigny's representative at Tournay, he chose rather to confront the anger of the
government, and to incur the deadly revenge of Philip, than make himself the executioner of
the harmless Christians in Tournay.  In this regard, his conduct is vastly more entitled to
our respect than that of Egmont, and he was certainly more deserving of reverence from the
people, even though deserted by all men while living, and left headless and solitary in his
coffin at Saint Gudule.

The hatred for Alva, which sprang from the graves of these illustrious victims, waxed daily
more intense.  "Like things of another world," wrote Hoogstraaten, "seem the cries, lamentations,
and just compassion which all the inhabitants of Brussels, noble or ignoble, feel for such
barbarous tyranny, while this Nero of an Alva is boasting that he will do the same to all whom
he lays his hands upon."  No man believed that the two nobles had committed a crime, and many
were even disposed to acquit Philip of his share in the judicial murder.  The people ascribed
the execution solely to the personal jealousy of the Duke.  They discoursed to each other not
only of the envy with which the Governor-general had always regarded the military triumphs
of his rival, but related that Egmont had at different times won large sums of Alva at games
of hazard, and that he had moreover, on several occasions, carried off the prize from the Duke
in shooting at the popinjay.  Nevertheless, in spite of all these absurd rumors, there is no
doubt that Philip and Alva must share equally in the guilt of the transaction, and that the
"chastisement" had been arranged before Alva had departed from Spain.

The Countess Egmont remained at the convent of Cambre with her eleven children, plunged in
misery and in poverty.  The Duke wrote to Philip, that he doubted if there were so wretched
a family in the world.  He, at the same time, congratulated his sovereign on the certainty
that the more intense the effects, the more fruitful would be the example of this great execution.
He stated that the Countess was considered a most saintly woman, and that there had been scarcely
a night in which, attended by her daughters, she had not gone forth bare-footed to offer up
prayers for her husband in every church within the city.  He added, that it was doubtful whether
they had money enough to buy themselves a supper that very night, and he begged the King to
allow them the means of supporting life.  He advised that the Countess should be placed, without
delay in a Spanish convent, where her daughters might at once take the veil, assuring his Majesty
that her dower was entirely inadequate to her support.  Thus humanely recommending his sovereign
to bestow an alms on the family which his own hand had reduced from a princely station to beggary,
the Viceroy proceeded to detail the recent events in Friesland, together with the measures
which he was about taking to avenge the defeat and death of Count Aremberg.

