M. de Lauzun hindered also a promotion of Marshal of France by the ridicule he cast upon the
candidates.  He said to the Regent, with that gentle and respectful tone he knew so well how
to assume, that in case any useless Marshals of France (as he said) were made, he begged his
Royal Highness to remember that he was the oldest lieutenant-general of the realm, and that
he had had the honour of commanding armies with the patent of general.  I have elsewhere related
other of his witty remarks. He could not keep them in; envy and jealousy urged him to utter
them, and as his bon-mots always went straight to the point, they were always much repeated.

We were on terms of continual intimacy; he had rendered me real solid friendly services of
himself, and I paid him all sorts of respectful attentions, and he paid me the same.  Nevertheless,
I did not always escape his tongue; and on one occasion, he was perhaps within an inch of doing
me much injury by it.

The King (Louis XIV.) was declining; Lauzun felt it, and began to think of the future.  Few
people were in favour with M. le Duc d'Orleans; nevertheless, it was seen that his grandeur
was approaching.  All eyes were upon him, shining with malignity, consequently upon me, who
for a long time had been the sole courtier who remained publicly attached to him, the sole
in his confidence.  M. de Lauzun came to dine at my house, and found us at table.  The company
he saw apparently displeased him; for he went away to Torcy, with whom I had no intimacy, and
who was also at table, with many people opposed to M. le Duc d'Orleans, Tallard, among others,
and Tesse.

"Monsieur," said Lauzun to Torcy, with a gentle and timid air, familiar to him, "take pity
upon me, I have just tried to dine with M. de Saint- Simon.  I found him at table, with company;
I took care not to sit down with them, as I did not wish to be the 'zeste' of the cabal.  I
have come here to find one."

They all burst out laughing.  The remark instantly ran over all Versailles.  Madame de Maintenon
and M. du Maine at once heard it, and nevertheless no sign was anywhere made.  To have been
angry would only have been to spread it wider: I took the matter as the scratch of an ill-
natured cat, and did not allow Lauzun to perceive that I knew it.

Two or three years before his death he had an illness which reduced him to extremity.  We were
all very assiduous, but he would see none of us, except Madame de Saint-Simon, and her but
once.  Languet, cure of Saint- Sulpice, often went to him, and discoursed most admirably to
him.  One day, when he was there, the Duc de la Force glided into the chamber: M. de Lauzun
did not like him at all, and often laughed at him.  He received him tolerably well, and continued
to talk aloud with the cure.

Suddenly he turned to the cure, complimented and thanked him, said he had nothing more valuable
to give him than his blessing, drew his arm from the bed, pronounced the blessing, and gave
it to him.  Then turning to the Duc de la Force, Lauzun said he had always loved and respected
him as the head of his house, and that as such he asked him for his blessing.

These two men, the cure and the Duc de la Force, were astonished, could not utter a word. 
The sick man redoubled his instances.  M. de la Force, recovering himself, found the thing
so amusing, that he gave his blessing; and in fear lest he should explode, left the room, and
came to us in the adjoining chamber, bursting with laughter, and scarcely able to relate what
had happened to him.

A moment after, the cure came also, all abroad, but smiling as much as possible, so as to put
a good face on the matter.  Lauzun knew that he was ardent and skilful in drawing money from
people for the building of a church, and had often said he would never fall into his net; he
suspected that the worthy cure's assiduities had an interested motive, and laughed at him in
giving him only his blessing (which he ought to have received from him), and in perseveringly
asking the Duc de la Force for his.  The cure, who saw the point of the joke, was much mortified,
but, like a sensible man, he was not less frequent in his visits to M. de Lauzun after this;
but the patient cut short his visits, and would not understand the language he spoke.

Another day, while he was still very ill, Biron and his wife made bold to enter his room on
tiptoe, and kept behind his curtains, out of sight, as they thought; but he perceived them
by means of the glass on the chimney- piece.  Lauzun liked Biron tolerably well, but Madame
Biron not at all; she was, nevertheless, his niece, and his principal heiress; he thought her
mercenary, and all her manners insupportable to him.  In that he was like the rest of the world.
He was shocked by this unscrupulous entrance into his chamber, and felt that, impatient for
her inheritance, she came in order to make sure of it, if he should die directly.  He wished
to make her repent of this, and to divert himself at her expense.  He begins, therefore; to
utter aloud, as though believing himself alone, an ejaculatory orison, asking pardon of God
for his past life, expressing himself as though persuaded his death was nigh, and saying that,
grieved at his inability to do penance, he wishes at least to make use of all the wealth he
possesses, in order to redeem his sins, and bequeath that wealth to the hospitals without any
reserve; says it is the sole road to salvation left to him by God, after having passed a long
life without thinking of the future; and thanks God for this sole resource left him, which
he adopts with all his heart!

He accompanied this resolution with a tone so touched, so persuaded, so determined, that Biron
and his wife did not doubt for a moment he was going to execute his design, or that they should
be deprived of all the succession.  They had no desire to spy any more, and went, confounded,
to the Duchesse de Lauzun, to relate to her the cruel decree they had just heard pronounced,
conjuring her to try and moderate it.  Thereupon the patient sent for the notaries, and Madame
Biron believed herself lost. It was exactly the design of the testator to produce this idea.
He made the notaries wait; then allowed them to enter, and dictated his will, which was a death-blow
to Madame de Biron.  Nevertheless, he delayed signing it, and finding himself better and better,
did not sign it at all.  He was much diverted with this farce, and could not restrain his laughter
at it, when reestablished.  Despite his age, and the gravity of his illness, he was promptly
cured and restored to his usual health.

He was internally as strong as a lion, though externally very delicate. He dined and supped
very heartily every day of an excellent and very delicate cheer, always with good company,
evening and morning; eating of everything, 'gras' and 'maigre', with no choice except that
of his taste and no moderation.  He took chocolate in the morning, and had always on the table
the fruits in season, and biscuits; at other times beer, cider, lemonade, and other similar
drinks iced; and as he passed to and fro, ate and drank at this table every afternoon, exhorting
others to do the same. In this way he left table or the fruit, and immediately went to bed.

I recollect that once, among others, he ate at my house, after his illness, so much fish, vegetables,
and all sorts of things (I having no power to hinder him), that in the evening we quietly sent
to learn whether he had not felt the effects of them.  He was found at table eating with good
appetite.

