Her little figure danced before the inward eye as his fire sank into darkness; fragments of
her chatter ran through his mind. He began to be rather ashamed of himself. Fontenoy was right.
It was not the moment. No doubt he must marry some day; he had come home, indeed, with the
vague intention of marrying; but the world was wide, and women many. That he had very little
romance in his temperament was probably due to his mother. His childish experiences of her
character, and of her relations to his father, had left him no room, alas! for the natural
childish opinion that all grown-ups, and especially all mothers, are saints. In India he had
amused himself a good deal; but his adventures had, on the whole, confirmed his boyish bias.
If he had been forced to put his inmost opinions about women into words, the result would have
been crude--perhaps brutal; which did not prevent him from holding a very strong and vivid
conviction of the pleasure to be got from their society.

Accordingly, he woke up next morning precisely in the mood that Letty, for her own reasons,
had foreseen. It worried him to think that for two or three days more he and Letty Sewell must
still be thrown together in close relations. He and his mother were waiting on at Malford for
a day or two till some workmen should be out of his own house, which lay twenty miles away,
at the farther edge of the Market Malford division. Meanwhile a couple of shooting-parties
had been arranged, mainly for his entertainment. Still, was there no urgent business that required
him in town?

He sauntered in to breakfast a little before ten. Only Evelyn Watton and her mother were visible,
most of the men having already gone off to a distant meet.

"Now sit down and entertain us, Sir George," said Mrs. Watton, holding out her hand to him
with an odd expression. "We're as dull as ditch water--the men have all gone--Florrie's in
bed with a chill--and Letty departed by the 9.30 train."

George's start, as he took his coffee from her, did not escape her.

"Miss Sewell gone? But why this suddenness?" he inquired. "I thought Miss Letty was to be here
to the end of the week."

Mrs. Watton raised her shoulders. "She sent a note in to me at half-past eight to say her mother
wasn't well, and she was wanted at home. She just rushed in to say good-bye to me, chattered
a great deal, kissed everybody a great deal--and I know no more. I hear she had breakfast and
a fly, which is all I troubled myself about. I never interfere with the modern young woman."

Then she raised her eyeglass, and looked hard and curiously at Tressady. His face told her
nothing, however, and as she was the least sympathetic of women, she soon forgot her own curiosity.

Evelyn Watton, a vision of fresh girlhood in her morning frock, glanced shyly at him once or
twice as she gave him scones and mustard. She was passing through a moment of poetry and happy
dreams. All human beings walked glorified in her eyes, especially if they were young. Letty
was not wholly to her taste, and had never been a particular friend. But she thought ill of
no one, and her little heart must needs flutter tenderly in the presence of anything that suggested
love and marriage. It had delighted her to watch George and Letty together. Now, why had Letty
rushed away like this? She thought with concern, thrilling all the time, that Sir George looked
grave and depressed.

George, however, was not depressed--or thought he was not. He walked into the library after
breakfast, whistling, and quoting to himself:

And there be they Who kissed his wings which brought him yesterday, And thank his wings to-day
that he is flown.

He prided himself on his memory of some modern poets, and the lines pleased him particularly.

He had no sooner done quoting, however, than his mother peered into the room, claiming the
business talk that had been promised. From that talk George emerged irritable and silent. His
mother's extravagance was really preposterous!--not to be borne. For four years now he had
been free from the constant daily friction of money troubles which had spoilt his youth and
robbed him of all power of respecting his mother. And he had hugged his freedom. But all the
time it seemed he had been hugging illusion, and the troubles had been merely piling up for
his return! Her present claims--and he knew very well that they were not the whole--would exhaust
all his available balance at his bankers'.

Lady Tressady, for her part, thought, with indignant despair, that he had not behaved at all
as an only son should--especially an only son just returned to a widowed mother after four
years' absence. How could anyone suppose that in four years there would be no debts--on such
a pittance of an income? Some money, indeed, he had promised her; but not nearly enough, and
not immediately. He "must look into things at home." Lady Tressady was enraged with herself
and him that she had not succeeded better in making him understand how pressing, how urgent,
matters were.

She must, indeed, bring it home to him that there might be a scandal at any moment. That odious
livery-stable man, two or three dressmakers--in these directions every phase and shift of the
debtor's long finesse had been exhausted long ago. Even she was at her wits' end.

As for other matters--But from these her thoughts turned hurriedly away. Luck would change,
of course, sometime; it must change! No need to say anything about that just yet, especially
while George's temper was in such a queer state.

It was very odd--most annoying! As a baby even he had never been caressing or sweet like other
people's babies. And now, really!--why her son should have such unattractive ways!

But, manoeuvre as she would, George would not be drawn into further discussion. She could only
show him offended airs, and rack her brains morning and night as to how best to help herself.

Meanwhile George had never been so little pleased with living as during these few days. He
was overwhelmed with congratulations; and, to judge from the newspapers, "all England," as
Lady Tressady said, "was talking of him." It seemed to him ridiculous that a man should derive
so little entertainment from such a fact. Nevertheless, his dulness remained, and refused to
be got rid of. He discussed with himself, of course, for a new set of reasons, the possibility
of evading the shooting-parties, and departing. But he was deeply pledged to stay; and he was
under considerable obligations to the Wattons. So he stayed; but he shot so as to increase
his own dissatisfaction with the universe, and to make the other men in the house wonder what
might be the general value of an Indian sporting reputation when it came to dealing with the
British pheasant.

Then he turned to business. He tried to read some Parliamentary reports bearing on a coming
measure, and full of notes by Fontenoy, which Fontenoy had left with him. But it only ended
in his putting them hastily aside, lest in the mood of obscure contradiction that possessed
him he should destroy his opinions before he had taken his seat.

On the day before the last "shoot," among the letters his servant brought him in the early
morning, was one that he tore open in a hurry, tossing the rest aside.

It was from Miss Sewell, requesting, prettily, in as few words as possible, that he would return
her a book she had lent him.

"My mother," she wrote, "has almost recovered from her sudden attack of chill. I trust the
shooting-parties have amused you, and that you have read all Lord Fontenoy's Blue Books."

George wrote a reply before he went down to breakfast--a piece of ordinary small-talk, that
seemed to him the most wretched stuff conceivable. But he pulled two pens to pieces before
he achieved it.

Then he went out for a long walk alone, pondering what was the matter with him. Had that little
witch dropped the old familiar poison into his veins after all? Certainly some women made life
vivacity and pleasure, while others--his mother or Mrs. Watton, for instance--made it fatigue
or tedium.

Ever since his boyhood Tressady had been conscious of intermittent assaults of melancholy,
fits of some inner disgust, which hung the world in black, crippled his will, made him hate
himself and despise his neighbours. It was, possibly, some half-conscious dread lest this morbid
speck in his nature should gain upon the rest that made him so hungry for travel and change
of scene after he left college. It explained many surprises, many apparent ficklenesses in
his life. During the three weeks that he had spent in the same house with Letty Sewell he had
never once been conscious of this lurking element of his life. And now, after four days, he
found himself positively pining for her voice, the rustle of her delicate dress, her defiant,
provocative ways that kept a man on the alert--still more, her smiling silences that seemed
to challenge all his powers, the touch of her small cool hand that crushed so easily in his.

What had she left the house for in that wilful way? He did not believe her excuses. Yet he
was mystified. Did she realise that things were becoming serious, and did she not mean them
to be serious? If so, who or what hindered?

As for Fontenoy--

Tressady quickened his step impatiently as he recalled that harassed and toiling figure. Politics
or no politics, he would live his life! Besides, it was obviously to his profit to marry. How
could he ever make a common household with his mother? He meant to do his duty by her, but
she annoyed and abashed him twenty times a day. He would be far happier married, far better
able to do his work. He was not passionately in love--not at all. But--for it was no good fencing
with himself any longer--he desired Letty Sewell's companionship more than he had desired anything
for a long time. He wanted the right to carry off the little musical box, with all its tunes,
and set it playing in his own house, to keep him gay. Why not? He could house it prettily,
and reward it well.

As for the rest, he decided, without thinking about it, that Letty Sewell was well born and
bred. She had, of course, all the little refinements a fastidious taste might desire in a woman.
She would never discredit a man in society. On the contrary, she would be a great strength
to him there. And she must be sweet-tempered, or that pretty child Evelyn Watton would not
be so fond of her.

That pretty child, meanwhile, was absorbed in the excitement of her own small role. Tressady,
who had only made duty-conversation with her before, had found out somehow that she was sympathetic--that
she would talk to him charmingly about Letty. After a very little pretending, he let himself
go; and Evelyn dreamt at night of his confidences, her heart, without knowing it, leaping forward
to the time when a man would look at her so, for her own sake--not another's. She forgot that
she had ever criticised Letty, thought her vain or selfish. Nay, she made a heroine of her
forthwith; she remembered all sorts of delightful things to say of her, simply that she might
keep the young member talking in a corner, that she might still enjoy the delicious pride of
feeling that she knew--she was helping it on.

After the big "shoot," for instance, when all the other gentlemen were stiff and sleepy, George
spent the whole evening in chattering to Evelyn, or, rather, in making her chatter. Lady Tressady
loitered near them once or twice. She heard the names "Letty," "Miss Sewell," passing and repassing--one
talker catching up the other. Over any topic that included Miss Sewell they lingered; when
anything was begun that did not concern her, it dropped at once, like a ball ill thrown. The
mother went away smiling rather sourly.

She watched her son, indeed, cat-like all these days, trying to discover what had happened--what
his real mind was. She did not wish for a daughter-in-law at all, and she had even a secret
fear of Letty Sewell in that capacity. But somehow George must be managed, her own needs must
be met. She felt that she might be undoing the future; but the present drove her on.

On the following morning, from one of Mrs. Watton's numerous letters there dropped out the
fact that Letty Sewell was expected immediately at a country house in North Mercia whereof
a certain Mrs. Corfield was mistress--a house only distant some twenty miles from the Tressadys'
estate of Ferth Place.

"My sister-in-law has recovered with remarkable rapidity," said Mrs. Watton, raising a sarcastic
eye. "Do you know anything of the Corfields, Sir George?"

"Nothing at all," said George. "One hears of them sometimes from neighbours. They are said
to be very lively folk. Miss Sewell will have a gay time."

"Corfield?" said Lady Tressady, her head on one side and her cup balanced in two jewelled hands.
"What! Aspasia Corfield! Why, my dear George--one of my oldest friends!"

George laughed--the short, grating laugh his mother so often evoked.

"Beg pardon, mother; I can only answer for myself. To the best of my belief I never saw her,
either at Ferth or anywhere else."

"Why, Aspasia Corfield and I," said Lady Tressady with languid reflectiveness--"Aspasia Corfield
and I copied each other's dresses, and bought our hats at the same place, when we were eighteen.
I haven't seen her for an eternity. But Aspasia used to be a dear girl--and so fond of me!"

She put down her cup with a sigh, intended as a reproach to George. George only buried himself
the deeper in his morning's letters.

Mrs. Watton, behind her newspaper, glanced grimly from the mother to the son.

"I wonder if that woman has a single real old friend in the world. How is George Tressady going
to put up with her?"

The Wattons themselves had been on friendly terms with Tressady's father for many years. Since
Sir William's death and George's absence, however, Mrs. Watton had not troubled herself much
about Lady Tressady, in which she believed she was only following suit with the rest of West
Mercia. But now that George had reappeared as a promising politician, his mother--till he married--had
to be to some extent accepted along with him. Mrs. Watton accordingly had thought it her duty
to invite her for the election, not without an active sense of martyrdom. "She always has bored
me to tears since I first saw Sir William trailing her about," she would remark to Letty. "Where
did he pick her up? The marvel is that she has kept respectable. She has never looked it. I
always feel inclined to ask her at breakfast why she dresses for dinner twelve hours too soon!"

Very soon after the little conversation about the Corfields Lady Tressady withdrew to her room,
sat thoughtful for a while, with her writing-block on her knee, then wrote a letter. She was
perfectly aware of the fact that since George had come back to her she was likely to be welcome
once more in many houses that for years had shown no particular desire to receive her. She
took the situation very easily. It was seldom her way to be bitter. She was only determined
to amuse herself, to enjoy her life in her own way. If people disapproved of her, she thought
them fools, but it did not prevent her from trying to make it up with them next day, if she
saw an opening and it seemed worth while.

"There!" she said to herself as she sealed the letter, and looked at it with admiration, "I
really have a knack for doing those things. I should think Aspasia Corfield would ask him by
return--me, too, if she has any decency, though she has dropped me for fifteen years. She has
a tribe of daughters.--Why I should play Miss Sewell's game like this I don't know! Well, one
must try something."

That same afternoon mother and son took their departure for Ferth Place.

George, who had only spent a few weeks at Ferth since his return from India, should have found
plenty to do both indoors and out. The house struck him as singularly dingy and out of order.
Changes were imperatively demanded in the garden and in the estate. His business as a colliery-owner
was in a tangled and critical condition. And meanwhile Fontenoy plied him incessantly with
a political correspondence which of itself made large demands upon intelligence and energy.

Nevertheless he shuffled out of everything, unless it were the correspondence with Fontenoy.
As to the notion that all the languor could be due merely to an unsatisfied craving for Letty
Sewell's society, when it presented itself he still fought with it. The Indian climate might
have somehow affected him. An English winter is soon forgotten, and has to be re-learnt like
a distasteful lesson.

About a week after their arrival at Ferth George was sitting at his solitary breakfast when
his mother came floating into the room, preceded by a rattle of bangles, a flutter of streamers,
and the barking of little dogs.

She held various newly opened letters, and, running up to him, she laid her hands on his shoulders.

"Now"--thought George to himself with annoyance, "she is going to be arch!"

"Oh! you silly boy!" she said, holding him, with her head on one side. "Who's been cross and
nasty to his poor old mammy? Who wants cheering up a bit before he settles down to his horrid
work? Who would take his mammy to a nice party at a nice house, if he were prettily asked--eh?
who would?"

She pinched his cheek before he could escape.

"Well, mother, of course you will do what you like," said George, walking off to supply himself
with ham. "I shall not leave home again, just yet."

Lady Tressady smiled.

"Well, anyhow, you can read Aspasia Corfield's letter," she said, holding it out to him. "You
know, really, that house isn't bad. They took over the Dryburghs' chef, and Aspasia knows how
to pick her people."

"Aspasia!" The tone of patronising intimacy! George blushed, if his mother did not.

Yet he took the letter. He read it, then put it down, and walked to the window to look at a
crowd of birds that had been collecting round a plate of food he had just put out upon the snow.

"Well, will you go?" said his mother.

"If you particularly wish it," he said, after a pause, in an embarrassed voice.

Lady Tressady's dimples were in full play as she settled herself into her seat and began to
gather a supply of provisions. But as he returned to his place, and she glanced at him, she
saw that he was not in a mood to be bantered, and understood that he was not going to let her
force his confidence, however shrewdly she might guess at his affairs. So she controlled herself,
and began to chatter about the Corfields and their party. He responded, and by the end of breakfast
they were on much better terms than they had been for some weeks.

That morning also he wrote a cheque for her immediate necessities, which made her--for the
time--a happy woman; and she overwhelmed him with grateful tears and embraces, which he did
his best to bear.

Early in December he and she became the Corfields' guests. They found a large party collected,
and Letty Sewell happily established as the spoilt child of the house. At the first touch of
her hand, the first glance of her eyes, George's cloud dispersed.

"Why did you run away?" George asked her on the first possible occasion.

Letty laughed, fenced with the question for four days, during which George was never dull for
a single instant, and then capitulated. She allowed him to propose to her, and was graciously
pleased to accept him.

The following week Tressady went down with Letty to her home at Helbeck. He found an invalid
father, a remarkably foolish, inconsequent mother, and a younger sister, Elsie, on whom, as
it seemed to him, the burdens of the house mainly rested.

The father, who was suffering from a slow but incurable disease, had the remains of much natural
ability and acuteness. He was well content with Tressady as a son-in-law; though in the few
interviews that Tressady was able to have with him on the question of settlements the young
man took pains to state his money affairs as carefully and modestly as possible. Letty was
not often in her father's room, and Mr. Sewell treated her, when she did come, rather like
an agreeable guest than a daughter. But he was evidently extremely proud of her--as also was
the mother--and he would talk much to George, when his health allowed it, of her good looks
and her social success.

With the younger sister Tressady did not find it easy to make friends.

She was plain, sickly, and rather silent. She seemed to have scientific tastes and to be a
great reader. And, so far as he could judge, the two sisters were not intimate.

"Don't hate me for taking her away!" he said, as he was bidding good-bye to Elsie, and glancing
over her shoulder at Letty on the stairs.

The girl's quiet eyes were crossed by a momentary look of amusement. Then she controlled herself,
and said gently:

"We didn't expect to keep her! Good-bye."

CHAPTER IV

"Oh, Tully, look at my cloak! You've let it fall! Hold my fan, please, and give me the opera-glasses."

The speaker was Miss Sewell. She and an elderly lady were sitting side by side in the stalls,
about halfway down St. James's Hall. The occasion was a popular concert, and, as Joachim was
to play, every seat in the hall was rapidly filling up.

Letty rose as she asked for the opera-glasses, and scanned the crowds streaming in through
the side-doors.

"No--no signs of him! He must have been kept at the House, after all," she said, with annoyance.
"Really, Tully, I do think you might have got a programme all this time! Why do you leave everything
to me?"

"My dear!" said her companion, protesting, "you didn't tell me to."

"Well, I don't see why I should tell you everything. Of course I want a programme. Is that
he? No! What a nuisance!"

"Sir George must have been detained," murmured her companion, timidly.

"What a very original thing to say, wasn't it, Tully?" remarked Miss Sewell, with sarcasm,
as she sat down again.

The lady addressed was silent, instinctively waiting till Letty's nerves should have quieted
down. She was a Miss Tulloch, a former governess of the Sewells, and now often employed by
Letty, when she was in town, as a convenient chaperon. Letty was accustomed to stay with an
aunt in Cavendish Square, an old lady who did not go out in the evenings. A chaperon therefore
was indispensable, and Maria Tulloch could always be had. She existed somewhere in West Kensington,
on an income of seventy pounds a year. Letty took her freely to the opera and the theatre,
to concerts and galleries, and occasionally gave her a dress she did not want. Miss Tulloch
clung to the connection as her only chance of relief from the boarding-house routine she detested,
and was always abjectly ready to do as she was told. She saw nothing she was not meant to see,
and she could be shaken off at a moment's notice. For the rest, she came of a stock of gentlefolk;
and her invariable black dress, her bits of carefully treasured lace, the weak refinement of
her face, and her timid manner did no discredit to the brilliant creature beside her.

When the first number of the programme was over, Letty got up once more, opera-glass in hand,
to search among the late-comers for her missing lover. She nodded to many acquaintances, but
George Tressady was not to be seen; and she sat down finally in no mood either to listen or
to enjoy, though the magician of the evening was already at work.

"There's something very special, isn't there, you want to see Sir George about to-night?" Tully
inquired humbly when the next pause occurred.

"Of course there is!" said Letty, crossly. "You do ask such foolish questions, Tully. If I
don't see him to-night, he may let that house in Brook Street slip. There are several people
after it--the agents told me."

"And he thinks it too expensive?"

"Only because of her. If she makes him pay her that preposterous allowance, of course it will
be too expensive. But I don't mean him to pay it."

"Lady Tressady is terribly extravagant," murmured Miss Tulloch.

"Well, so long as she isn't extravagant with his money--our money--I don't care a rap," said
Letty; "only she sha'n't spend all her own and all ours too, which is what she has been doing.
When George was away he let her live at Ferth, and spend almost all the income, except five
hundred a year that he kept for himself. And then she got so shamefully into debt that he doesn't
know when he shall ever clear her. He gave her money at Christmas, and again, I am sure, just
lately. Well! all I know is that it must be stopped. I don't know that I shall be able to do
much till I'm married, but I mean to make him take this house."

"Is Lady Tressady nice to you? She is in town, isn't she?"

"Oh yes! she's in town. Nice?" said Letty, with a little laugh. "She can't bear me, of course;
but we're quite civil."

"I thought she tried to bring it on?" said the confidante, anxious, above all things, to be
sympathetic.

"Well, she brought him to the Corfields, and let me know she had. I don't know why she did
it. I suppose she wanted to get something out of him. Ah! there he is!"

And Letty stood up, smiling and beckoning, while Tressady's tall thin figure made its way along
the central passage.

"Horrid House! What made you so late?" she said, as he sat down between her and Miss Tulloch.

George Tressady looked at her with delight. The shrewish contractions in the face, which had
been very evident to Tully a few minutes before, had all disappeared, and the sharp slight
lines of it seemed to George the height of delicacy. At sight of him colour and eyes had brightened.
Yet at the same time there was not a trace of the raw girl about her. She knew very well that
he had no taste for ingenues, and she was neither nervous nor sentimental in his company.

"Do you suppose I should have stayed a second longer than I was obliged?" he asked her, smiling,
pressing her little hand under pretence of taking her programme.

The first notes of a new Brahms quartette mounted, thin and sweet, into the air. The musical
portion of the audience, having come for this particular morsel, prepared themselves eagerly
for the tasting and trying of it. George and Letty tried to say a few things more to each other
before yielding to the general silence, but an old gentleman in front turned upon them a face
of such disdain and fury they must needs laugh and desist.

Not that George was unwilling. He was tired; and silence with Letty beside him was not only
repose, but pleasure. Moreover, he derived a certain honest pleasure of a mixed sort from music.
It suggested literary or pictorial ideas to him which stirred him, and gave him a sense of
enjoyment. Now, as the playing flowed on, it called up delightful images in his brain: of woody
places, of whirling forms, of quiet rivers, of thin trees Corot-like against the sky--scenes
of pleading, of frolic, reproachful pain, dissolving joy. With it all mingled his own story,
his own feeling; his pride of possession in this white creature touching him; his sense of
youth, of opening life, of a crowded stage whereon his "cue" had just been given, his "call"
sounded. He listened with eagerness, welcoming each fancy as it floated past, conscious of
a grain of self-abandonment even--a rare mood with him. He was not absorbed in love by any
means; the music spoke to him of a hundred other kindling or enchanting things. Nevertheless
it made it doubly pleasant to be there, with Letty beside him. He was quite satisfied with
himself and her; quite certain that he had done everything for the best. All this the music
in some way emphasised--made clear.

When it was over, and the applause was subsiding, Letty said in his ear: "Have you settled
about the house?"

He smiled down upon her, not hearing what she said, but admiring her dress, its little complication
and subtleties, the violets that perfumed every movement, the slim fingers holding the fan.
Her mere ways of personal adornment were to him like pleasant talk. They surprised and amused
him--stood between him and ennui.

She repeated her question.

A frown crossed his brow, and the face changed wholly.

"Ah!--it is so difficult to see one's way," he said, with a little sigh of annoyance.

Letty played with her fan, and was silent.

"Do you so much prefer it to the others?" he asked her.

Letty looked up with astonishment.

"Why, it is a house!" she said, lifting her eyebrows; "and the others--"

"Hovels? Well, you are about right. The small London house is an abomination. Perhaps I can
make them take less premium."

Letty shook her head.

"It is not at all a dear house," she said decidedly.

He still frowned, with the look of one recalled to an annoyance he had shaken off.

"Well, darling, if you wish it so much, that settles it. Promise to be still nice to me when
we go through the Bankruptcy Court!"

"We will let lodgings, and I will do the waiting," said Letty, just laying her hand lightly
against his for an instant. "Just think! That house would draw like anything. Of course, we
will only take the eldest sons of peers. By the way, do you see Lord Fontenoy?"

They were in the middle of the "interval," and almost everyone about them, including Miss Tulloch,
was standing up, talking or examining their neighbours.

George craned his neck round Miss Tulloch, and saw Fontenoy sitting beside a lady, on the other
side of the middle gangway.

"Who is the lady?" Letty inquired. "I saw her with him the other night at the Foreign Office."

George smiled.

"That--if you want to know--is Fontenoy's story!"

"Oh, but tell me at once!" said Letty, imperiously. "But he hasn't got a story, or a heart.
He's only stuffed with blue-book."

"So I thought till a few weeks ago. But I know a good deal more now about Master Fontenoy than
I did."

"But who is she?"

"She is a Mrs. Allison. Isn't that white hair beautiful? And her face--half saint, I always
think--you might take her for a mother-abbess--and half princess. Did you ever see such diamonds?"

George pulled his moustaches, and grinned as he looked across at Fontenoy.

"Tell me quick!" said Letty, tapping him on the arm--"Is she a widow?--and is he going to marry
her? Why didn't you tell me before?--why didn't you tell me at Malford?"

"Because I didn't know," said George, laughing. "Oh! it's a strange story--too long to tell
now. She is a widow, but he is not going to marry her, apparently. She has a grown-up son,
who hasn't yet found himself a wife, and thinks it isn't fair to him. If Fontenoy wants to
introduce her, don't refuse. She is the mistress of Castle Luton, and has delightful parties.
Yes!--if I'd known at Malford what I know now!"

And he laughed again, remembering Fontenoy's nocturnal incursion upon him, and its apparent
object. Who would have imagined that the preacher of that occasion had ever given one serious
thought to woman and woman's arts--least of all that he was the creation and slave of a woman!

Letty's curiosity was piqued, and she would have plied George with questions, but that she
suddenly perceived that Fontenoy had risen, and was coming across to them.

"Gracious!" she said; "here he comes. I can't think why; he doesn't like me."

Fontenoy, however, when he had made his way to them, greeted Miss Sewell with as much apparent
cordiality as he showed to anyone else. He had received George's news of the marriage with
all decorum, and had since sent a handsome wedding-present to the bride-elect. Letty, however,
was never at ease with him, which, indeed, was the case with most women.

He stood beside the fiances for a minute or two, exchanging a few commonplaces with Letty on
the performers and the audience; then he turned to George with a change of look.

"No need for us to go back to-night, I think?"

"What, to the House? Dear, no! Grooby and Havershon may be trusted to drone the evening out,
I should hope, with no trouble to anybody but themselves. The Government are just keeping a
house, that's all. Have you been grinding at your speech all day?"

Fontenoy shrugged his shoulders.

"I sha'n't get anything out that I want to say. Are you coming to the House on Friday, Miss
Sewell?"

"Friday?" said Letty, looking puzzled.

George laughed.

"I told you. You must plead trousseau if you want to save yourself!"

Amusement shone in his blue eyes as they passed from Letty to Fontenoy. He had long ago discovered
that Letty was incapable of any serious interest in his public life. It did not disturb him
at all. But it tickled his sense of humour that Letty would have to talk politics all the same,
and to talk them with people like Fontenoy.

"Oh! you mean your Resolution!" cried Letty. "Isn't it a Resolution? Yes, of course I'm coming.
It's very absurd, for I don't know anything about it. But George says I must, and till I promise
to obey, you see, I don't mind being obedient!"

Archness, however, was thrown away on Fontenoy. He stood beside her, awkward and irresponsive.
Not being allowed to be womanish, she could only try once more to be political.

"It's to be a great attack on Mr. Dowson, isn't it?" she asked him. "You and George are mad
about some things he has been doing? He's Home Secretary, isn't he? Yes, of course! And he's
been driving trade away, and tyrannising over the manufacturers? I wish you'd explain it to
me! I ask George, and he tells me not to talk shop."

"Oh, for goodness' sake," groaned George, "let it alone! I came to meet you and hear Joachim.
However, I may as well warn you, Letty, that I sha'n't have time to be married once Fontenoy's
anti-Maxwell campaign begins; and it will go on till the Day of Judgment."

"Why anti-Maxwell," said Letty, puzzled. "I thought it was Mr. Dowson you are going to attack?"

George, a little vexed that she should require it, began to explain that as Maxwell was "only
a miserable peer," he could have nothing to do with the House of Commons, and that Dowson was
the official mouthpiece of the Maxwell group and policy in the Lower House. "The hands were
the hands of Esau," etc. Letty meanwhile, conscious that she was not showing to advantage,
flushed, began to play nervously with her fan, and wished that George would leave off.

Fontenoy did nothing to assist George's political lesson. He stood impassive, till suddenly
he tried to look across his immediate neighbours, and then said, turning to Letty:

"The Maxwells, I see, are here to-night." He nodded towards a group on the left, some two or
three benches behind them. "Are you an admirer of Lady Maxwell's, Miss Sewell?--you've seen
her, of course?"

"Oh yes, often!" said Letty, annoyed by the question, standing, however, eagerly on tiptoe.
"I know her, too, a little; but she never remembers me. She was at the Foreign Office on Saturday,
with such a hideous dress on--it spoilt her completely."

"Hideous!" said Fontenoy, with a puzzled look. "Some artist--I forget who--came and raved to
me about it; said it was like some Florentine picture--I forget what--don't think I ever heard
of it."

Letty looked contemptuous. Her expression said that in this matter, at any rate, she knew what
she was talking about. Nevertheless her eyes followed the dark head Fontenoy had pointed out
to her.

Lady Maxwell was at the moment the centre of a large group of people, mostly men, all of whom
seemed to be eager to get a word with her, and she was talking with great animation, appealing
from time to time to a tall, broad-shouldered gentleman, with greyish hair, who stood, smiling
and silent, at the edge of the group. Letty noticed that many glasses from the balcony were
directed to this particular knot of persons; that everybody near them, or rather every woman,
was watching Lady Maxwell, or trying to get a better view of her. The girl felt a secret pang
of envy and dislike.

The figure of a well-known accompanist appeared suddenly at the head of the staircase leading
from the artists' room. The interval was over, and the audience began to subside into attention.

Fontenoy bowed and took his leave.

"You see, he didn't introduce me," said Letty, not without chagrin, as she settled down. "And
how plain he is! I think him uglier every time I see him."

George made a vague sound of assent, but did not really agree with her in the least. Fontenoy's
air of overwork was more decided than ever; his eyes had almost sunk out of sight; the complexion
of his broad strong face had reddened and coarsened from lack of exercise and sleep; his brown
hair was thinning and grizzling fast. Nevertheless a man saw much to admire in the ungainly
head and long-limbed frame, and did not think any the better of a woman's intelligence for
failing to perceive it.

After the concert, as George and Letty stood together in the crowded vestibule, he said to
her, with a smile:

"So I take that house?"

"If you want to do anything disagreeable," she retorted, quickly, "don't ask me. Do it, and
then wait till I am good-tempered again!"

"What a tempting prospect! Do you know that when you put on that particular hood that I would
take Buckingham Palace to please you? Do you know also that my mother will think us very extravagant?"

"Ah, we can't all be economical!" said Letty.

He saw the little toss of the head and sharpening of the lips. They only amused him. Though
he had never, so far, discussed his mother and her affairs with Letty in any detail, he understood
perfectly well that her feeling about this particular house in some way concerned his mother,
and that Letty and Lady Tressady were rapidly coming to dislike each other. Well, why should
Letty pretend? He liked her the better for not pretending.

There was a movement in the crowd about them, and Letty, looking up, suddenly found herself
close to a tall lady, whose dark eyes were bent upon her.

"How do you do, Miss Sewell?"

Letty, a little fluttered, gave her hand and replied. Lady Maxwell glanced across her at the
tall young man, with the fair, irregular face. George bowed involuntarily, and she slightly
responded. Then she was swept on by her own party.

"Have you sent for your carriage?" George heard someone say to her.

"No; I am going home in a hansom. I've tired out both the horses to-day. Aldous is going down
to the club to see if he can hear anything about Devizes."

"Oh! the election?"

She nodded, then caught sight of her husband at the door beckoning, and hurried on.

"What a head!" said George, looking after her with admiration.

"Yes," said Letty, unwillingly. "It's the hair that's so splendid, the long black waves of
it. How ridiculous to talk of tiring out her horses--that's just like her! As though she mightn't
have fifty horses if she liked! Oh, George, there's our man! Quick, Tully!"

They made their way out. In the press George put his arm half round Letty, shielding her. The
touch of her light form, the nearness of her delicate face, enchanted him. When their carriage
had rolled away, and he turned homewards along Piccadilly, he walked absently for a time, conscious
only of pulsing pleasure.

It was a mild February night. After a long frost, and a grudging thaw, westerly winds were
setting in, and Spring could be foreseen. It had been pouring with rain during the concert,
but was now fair, the rushing clouds leaving behind them, as they passed, great torn spaces
of blue, where the stars shone.

Gusts of warm moist air swept through the street. As George's moment of intoxication gradually
subsided, he felt the physical charm of the soft buffeting wind. How good seemed all living!--youth
and capacity--this roaring multitudinous London--the future with its chances! This common pleasant
chance of marriage amongst them--he was glad he had put out his hand to it. His wife that was
to be was no saint and no philosopher. He thanked the fates! He at least asked for neither--on
the hearth. "Praise, blame, love, kisses"--for all of those, life with Letty would give scope;
yet for none of them in excess. There would be plenty of room left for other things, other
passions--the passion of political power, for instance, the art of dealing with and commanding
other men. He, the novice, the beginner, to talk of "commanding!" Yet already he felt his foot
upon the ladder. Fontenoy consulted him, and confided in him more and more. In spite of his
engagement, he was informing himself rapidly on a hundred questions, and the mental wrestle
of every day was exhilarating. Their small group in the House, compact, tireless, audacious,
was growing in importance and in the attention it extorted from the public. Never had the whole
tribe of factory inspectors shown a more hawk-like, a more inquisitorial, a more intolerable
vigilance than during the past twelve months. All the persons concerned with matches and white-lead,
with certain chemical or metal-working industries, with "season" dressmaking or tailoring,
were up in arms, rallying to Fontenoy's support with loud wrath and lamentations, claiming
to speak not only for themselves, but for their "hands," in the angry protest that things had
gone and were going a great deal too far, that trade was simply being harassed out of the country.
A Whiggish group of manufacturers on the Liberal side were all with Fontenoy; while the Socialists,
on whom the Government should have been able in such a matter to count to the death, had a
special grievance against the Cabinet at the moment, and were sulking in their tents. The attack
and defence would probably take two nights; for the Government, admitting the gravity of the
assault, had agreed, in case the debate should not be concluded on Friday, to give up Monday
to it. Altogether the affair would make a noise. George would probably get in his maiden speech
on the second night, and was, in truth, devoting a great deal of his mind to the prospect;
though to Letty he had persistently laughed at it and belittled it, refusing altogether to
let her come and hear him.

Then, after Easter would come Maxwell's Bill, and the fat in the fire! Poor little Letty!--she
would get but few of the bridal observances due to her when that struggle began. But first
would come Easter and their wedding; that one short fortnight, when he would carry her off--soft,
willing prey!--to the country, draw a "wind-warm space" about himself and her, and minister
to all her whims.

He turned down St. James's Street, passed Marlborough House, and entered the Mall, on the way
to Warwick Square, where he was living with his mother.

Suddenly he became aware of a crowd, immediately in front of him, in the direction of Buckingham
Palace. A hansom and horse were standing in the roadway; the driver, crimson and hatless, was
bandying words with one of the policemen, who had his notebook open, and from the middle of
the crowd came a sound of wailing.

He walked up to the edge of the circle.

"Anybody hurt?" he said to the policeman, as the man shut his notebook.

"Little girl run over, sir."

"Can I be of any assistance? Is there an ambulance coming?"

"No, sir. There was a lady in the hansom. She's just now bandaging the child's leg, and says
she'll take it to the hospital."

George mounted on one of the seats under the trees that stood handy, and looked over the heads
of the crowd to the space in the centre which the other policeman was keeping clear. A little
girl lay on the ground, or rather on a heap of coats; another girl, apparently about sixteen,
stood near her, crying bitterly, and a lady--

"Goodness!" said Tressady; and, jumping down, he touched the policeman on the shoulder.

"Can you get me through? I think I could be some help. That lady"--he spoke a word in the policeman's
ear.

The man touched his hat.

"Stand back, please!" he said, addressing the crowd, "and let this gentleman through."

The crowd divided unwillingly. But at the same moment it parted from the inside, and a little
procession came through, both policemen joining their energies to make a free passage for it.
In front walked the policeman carrying the little girl, a child apparently of about twelve
years old. Her right foot lay stiffly across his arm, held straight and still in an impromptu
splint of umbrellas and handkerchiefs. Immediately behind came the lady whom George had caught
sight of, holding the other girl's hand in hers. She was bareheaded and in evening dress. Her
opera-cloak, with its heavy sable collar, showed beneath it a dress of some light-coloured
satin, which had already suffered deplorably from the puddles of the road, and, as she neared
the lamp beneath which the cab had stopped, the diamonds on her wrists sparkled in the light.
During her passage through the crowd, George perceived that one or two people recognised her,
and that a murmur ran from mouth to mouth.

Of anything of the sort she herself was totally unconscious. George saw at once that she, not
the policeman, was in command. She gave him directions, as they approached the cab, in a quick,
imperative voice which left no room for hesitation.

"The driver is drunk," he heard her say; "who will drive?"

"One of us will drive, ma'am."

"What--the other man? Ask him to take the reins at once, please, before I get in. The horse
is fresh, and might start. That's right. Now, when I say the word, give me the child."

She settled herself in the cab. George saw the policeman somewhat embarrassed, for a moment,
with his burden. He came forward to his help, and between them they handed in the child, placing
her carefully on her protector's knee.

Then, standing at the open door of the cab, George raised his hat. "Can I be of any further
assistance to you, Lady Maxwell? I saw you just now at the concert."

She turned in some astonishment as she heard her name, and looked at the speaker. Then, very
quickly, she seemed to understand.

"I don't know," she said, pondering. "Yes! you could help me. I am going to take the child
to hospital. But there is this other girl. Could you take her home--she is very much upset?
No!--first, could you bring her after me to St. George's? She wants to see where we put her
sister."

"I will call another cab, and be there as soon as you."

"Thank you. Just let me speak to the sister a moment, please."

He put the weeping girl forward, and Lady Maxwell bent across the burden on her knee to say
a few words to her--soft, quick words in another voice. The girl understood, her face cleared
a little, and she let Tressady take charge of her.

One of the policemen mounted the box of the hansom, amid the "chaff" of the crowd, and the
cab started. A few hats were raised in George's neighbourhood, and there was something of a cheer.

"I tell yer," said a voice, "I knowed her fust sight--seed her picture lots o' times in the
papers, and in the winders too. My word, ain't she good-lookin! And did yer see all them diamonds?"

"Come along!" said George, impatiently, hurrying his charge into the four-wheeler the other
policeman had just stopped for them.

In a few more seconds he, the girl, and the policeman were pursuing Lady Maxwell's hansom at
the best speed of an indifferent horse. George tried to say a few consoling things to his neighbour;
and the girl, reassured by his kind manner, found her tongue, and began to chatter in a tearful
voice about the how and when of the accident: about the elder sister in a lodging in Crawford
Street, Tottenham Court Road, whom she and the little one had been visiting; the grandmother
in Westminster with whom they lived; poor Lizzie's place in a laundry, which now she must lose;
how the lady had begged handkerchiefs and umbrellas from the crowd to tie up Lizzie's leg with--and
so on through a number of other details incoherent or plaintive.

George heard her absently. His mind all the time was absorbed in the dramatic or ironic aspects
of what he had just seen. For dramatic they were--though perhaps a little cheap. Could he,
could anyone, have made acquaintance with this particular woman in more characteristic fashion?
He laughed to think how he would tell the story to Fontenoy. The beautiful creature in her
diamonds, kneeling on her satin dress in the mud, to bind up a little laundrymaid's leg--it
was so extravagantly in keeping with Marcella Maxwell that it amused one like an overdone coincidence
in a clumsy play.

What made her so beautiful? The face had marked defects; but in colour, expression, subtlety
of line incomparable! On the other hand, the manner--no!--he shrugged his shoulders. The remembrance
of its mannish--or should it be, rather, boyish?--energy and assurance somehow set him on edge.

In the end, they were not much behind the hansom; for the hospital porter was only just in
the act of taking the injured child from Lady Maxwell as Tressady dismounted and went forward
again to see what he could do.

But, somewhat to his chagrin, he was not wanted. Lady Maxwell and the porter did everything.
As they went into the hospital, George caught a few of the things she was saying to the porter
as she supported the child's leg. She spoke in a rapid, professional way, and the man answered,
as the policeman had done, with a deference and understanding which were clearly not due only
to her "grand air" and her evening dress. George was puzzled.

He and the elder sister followed her into the waiting-room. The house-surgeon and a nurse were
summoned, and the injured leg was put into a splint there and then. The patient moaned and
cried most of the time, and Tressady had hard work to keep the sister quiet. Then nurse and
doctor lifted the child.

"They are going to put her to bed," said Lady Maxwell, turning to George. "I am going up with
them. Would you kindly wait? The sister"--she dropped her business tone, and, smiling, touched
the elder girl on the arm--"can come up when the little one is undressed."

The little procession swept away, and George was left with his charge. As soon as the small
sister was out of sight, the elder one began to chatter again out of sheer excitement, crying
at intervals. George did not heed her much. He walked up and down, with his hands in his pockets,
conscious of a curious irritability. He did not think a woman should take a strange man's service
quite so coolly.

At the end of another quarter of an hour a nurse appeared to summon the sister. Tressady was
told he might come too if he would, and his charge threw him a quick, timid look, as though
asking him not to desert her in this unknown and formidable place. So they followed the nurse
up white stone stairs, and through half-lit corridors, where all was silent, save that once
a sound of delirious shrieking and talking reached them through a closed door, and made the
sister's consumptive little face turn whiter still.

At last the nurse, putting her finger on her lip, turned a handle, and George was conscious
of a sudden feeling of pleasure.

They were standing on the threshold of a children's ward. On either hand was a range of beds,
bluish-white between the yellow picture-covered walls and the middle-way of spotless floor.
Far away, at the other end, a great fire glowed. On a bare table in the centre, laden with
bottles and various surgical necessaries, stood a shaded lamp, and beside it the chair where
the night-nurse had been sitting. In the beds were sleeping children of various ages, some
burrowing, face downward, animal-like, into their pillows; others lying on their backs, painfully
straight and still. The air was warm, yet light, and there was the inevitable smell of antiseptics.
Something in the fire-lit space and comfort of the great room, its ordered lines and colours,
the gentleness of the shaded light as contrasted with the dim figures in the beds, seemed to
make a poem of it--a poem of human tenderness.

Two or three beds away to the right, Lady Maxwell was standing with the night-nurse of the
ward. The little girl had been undressed, and was lying quiet, with a drawn, piteous face that
turned eagerly as her sister came in. The whole scene was new and touching to Tressady. Yet,
after the first impression, his attention was perforce held by Lady Maxwell, and he saw the
rest only in relation to her. She had slipped off her heavy cloak, in order, perhaps, that
she might help in the undressing of the child. Beneath, she wore a little shawl or cape of
some delicate lace over her low dress. The dress itself was of a pale shade of green; the mire
and mud with which it was bedabbled no longer showed in the half light; and the satin folds
glistened dimly as she moved. The poetic dignity of the head, so finely wreathed with its black
hair, of the full throat and falling shoulders, received a sort of special emphasis from the
wide spaces, the pale colours and level lines of the ward. Tressady was conscious again of
the dramatic significant note as he watched her, yet without any softening of his nascent feeling
of antagonism.

She turned and beckoned to the sister as they entered:

"Come and see how comfortable she is! And then you must give this lady your name and address."

The girl timidly approached. Whilst she was occupied with her sister and with the nurse, Lady
Maxwell suddenly looked round, and saw Tressady standing by the table a yard or two from her.

A momentary expression of astonishment crossed her face. He saw that, in her absorption with
the case and the two sisters, she had clean forgotten all about him. But in a flash she remembered,
and smiled.

"So you are really going to take her home? That is very kind of you. It will make all the difference
to the grandmother that somebody should go and explain. You see, they leave her in the splint
for the night, and to-morrow they will put the leg in plaster. Probably they won't keep her
in hospital more than about three weeks, for they are very full."

"You seem to know all about it!"

"I was a nurse myself once, for a time," she said, but with a certain stiffness which seemed
to mark the transition from the professional to the great lady.

"Ah! I should have remembered that. I had heard it from Edward Watton."

She looked up quickly. He felt that for the first time she took notice of him as an individual.

"You know Mr. Watton? I think you are Sir George Tressady, are you not? You got in for Market
Malford in November? I recollect. I didn't like your speeches."

She laughed. So did he.

"Yes, I got in just in time for a fighting session."

Her laugh disappeared.

"An odious fight!" she said gravely.

"I am not so sure. That depends on whether you like fighting, and how certain you are of your
cause!"

She hesitated a moment; then she said:

"How can Lord Fontenoy be certain of his cause!"

The slight note of scorn roused him.

"Isn't that what all parties say of their opponents?"

She glanced at him again, curiously. He was evidently quite young--younger than herself, she
guessed. But his careless ease and experience of bearing, contrasted with his thin boy's figure,
attracted her. Her lip softened reluctantly into a smile.

"Perhaps," she said. "Only sometimes, you know, it must be true! Well, evidently we can't discuss
it here at one o'clock in the morning--and there is the nurse making signs to me. It is really
very good of you. If you are in our neighbourhood on Sunday, will you report?"

"Certainly--with the greatest pleasure. I will come and give you a full account of my mission."

She held out a slim hand. The sister, red-eyed with crying, was handed over to him, and he
and she were soon in a cab, speeding towards the Westminster mews whither she directed him.

Well, was Maxwell to be so greatly envied? Tressady was not sure. Such a woman, he thought,
for all her beauty, would not have greatly stirred his own pulses.

CHAPTER V

The week which had opened thus for Tressady promised to be one of lively interest for such
persons as were either concerned in or took notice of the House of Commons and its doings.
Fontenoy's onslaught upon the administration of the Home Office, and, through the Home Secretary,
on the Maxwell group and influence, had been long expected, and was known to have been ably
prepared. Its possible results were already keenly discussed. Even if it were a damaging attack,
it was not supposed that it could have any immediate effect on the state of parties or the
strength of the Government. But after Easter Maxwell's factory Bill--a special Factory Act
for East London, touching the grown man for the first time, and absolutely prohibiting home-work
in certain specified industries--was to be brought forward, and could not fail to provide Maxwell's
adversaries with many chances of red and glorious battle. It was disputable from end to end;
it had already broken up one Government; it was strongly pressed and fiercely opposed; and
on the fate of each clause in Committee might hang the life or death of the Ministry--not so
much because of the intrinsic importance of the matter, as because Maxwell was indispensable
to the Cabinet, and it was known that neither Maxwell nor his close friend and henchman, Dowson,
the Home Secretary, would accept defeat on any of the really vital points of the Bill.

The general situation was a curious one. Some two years before this time a strong and long-lived
Tory Government had come to an end. Since then all had been confusion in English politics.
A weak Liberal Government, undermined by Socialist rebellion, had lasted but a short time,
to be followed by an equally precarious Tory Ministry, in which Lord Maxwell--after an absence
from politics of some four years or so--returned to his party, only to break it up. For he
succeeded in imposing upon them a measure in which his own deepest convictions and feelings
were concerned, and which had behind it the support of all the more important trade unions.
Upon that measure the Ministry fell; but during their short administration Maxwell had made
so great an impression upon his own side that when they returned, as they did return, with
an enlarged majority, the Maxwell Bill retained one of the foremost places in their programme,
and might be said, indeed, at the present moment to hold the centre of the political field.

That field, in the eyes of any middle-aged observer, was in strange disarray. The old Liberal
party had been almost swept away; only a few waifs and strays remained, the exponents of a
programme that nobody wanted, and of cries that stirred nobody's blood. A large Independent
Labour and Socialist party filled the empty benches of the Liberals--a revolutionary, enthusiastic
crew, of whom the country was a little frightened, and who were, if the truth were known, a
little frightened at themselves. They had a coherent programme, and represented a formidable
"domination" in English life. And that English life itself, in all that concerned the advance
and transformation of labour, was in a singularly tossed and troubled state. After a long period
of stagnation and comparative industrial peace, storms at home, answering to storms on the
Continent, had been let loose, and forces both of reaction and of revolution were making themselves
felt in new forms and under the command of new masters.

At the head of the party of reaction stood Fontenoy. Some four years before the present session
the circumstances of a great strike in the Midlands--together, no doubt, with some other influence--had
first drawn him into public life, had cut him off from racing and all his natural pleasures.
The strike affected his father's vast domain in North Mercia; it was marked by an unusual violence
on the part of the men and their leaders; and Fontenoy, driven, sorely against his will, to
take a part by the fact that his father, the hard and competent administrator of an enormous
fortune, happened at the moment to be struck down by illness, found himself before many weeks
were over taking it with passion, and emerged from the struggle a changed man. Property must
be upheld; low-born disorder and greed must be put down. He sold his race-horses, and proceeded
forthwith to throw into the formation of a new party all the doggedness, the astuteness, and
the audacity he had been accustomed to lavish upon the intrigues and the triumphs of the Turf.

And now in this new Parliament his immense labour was beginning to tell. The men who followed
him had grown in number and improved in quality. They abhorred equally a temporising conservatism
and a plundering democracy. They stood frankly for birth and wealth, the Church and the expert.
They were the apostles of resistance and negation; they were sworn to oppose any further meddling
with trade and the personal liberty of master and workman, and to undo, if they could, some
of the meddling that had been already carried through. A certain academic quality prevailed
among them, which made them peculiarly sensitive to the absurdities of men who had not been
to Oxford or Cambridge; while some, like Tressady, had been travellers, and wore an Imperialist
heart upon their sleeve. The group possessed an unusual share of debating and oratorical ability,
and they had never attracted so much attention as now that they were about to make the Maxwell
Bill their prey.

Meanwhile, for the initiated, the situation possessed one or two points of special interest.
Lady Maxwell, indeed, was by this time scarcely less of a political force than her husband.
Was her position an illustration of some new power in women's hands, or was it merely an example
of something as well known to the Pharaohs as to the nineteenth century--the ability of any
woman with a certain physique to get her way? That this particular woman's way happened to
be also her husband's way made the case less interesting for some observers. On the other hand,
her obvious wifely devotion attracted simple souls to whom the meddling of women in politics
would have been nothing but repellent had it not been recommended to them by the facts that
Marcella Maxwell was held to be good as well as beautiful; that she loved her husband; and
was the excellent mother of a fine son.

Of her devotion, in the case of this particular Bill, there was neither concealment nor doubt.
She was known to have given her husband every assistance in the final drafting of the measure:
she had seen for herself the working of every trade that it affected; she had innumerable friends
among wage-earners of all sorts, to whom she gave half her social life; and both among them
and in the drawing-rooms of the rich she fought her husband's cause unceasingly, by the help
of beauty, wits, and something else--a broad impulsiveness and charm--which might be vilified
or scorned, but could hardly be matched, by the enemy.

Meanwhile Lord Maxwell was a comparatively ineffective speaker, and passed in social life for
a reserved and difficult personality. His friends put no one else beside him; and his colleagues
in the Cabinet were well aware that he represented the keystone in their arch. But the man
in the street, whether of the aristocratic or plebeian sort, knew comparatively little about
him. All of which, combined with the special knowledge of an inner circle, helped still more
to concentrate public attention on the convictions, the temperament, and the beauty of his wife.

Amid a situation charged with these personal or dramatic elements the Friday so keenly awaited
by Fontenoy and his party arrived.

Immediately after question-time Fontenoy made his speech. In reply, the Home Secretary, suave,
statistical, and conciliatory, poured a stream of facts and reports upon the House. The more
repulsive they were, the softer and more mincing grew his voice in dealing with them. Fontenoy
had excited his audience, Dowson succeeded in making it shudder. Nevertheless, the effect of
the evening lay with Fontenoy.

George stayed to hear the official defence to its end. Then he hurried upstairs in search of
Letty, who, with Miss Tulloch, was in the Speaker's private gallery. As he went he thought
of Fontenoy's speech, its halting opening, the savage force of its peroration. His pulses tingled:
"Magnificent!" he said to himself; "magnificent! We have found a man!"

Letty was eagerly waiting for him, and they walked down the corridor together. "Well?" he said,
thrusting his hands deep into his pockets, and looking down upon her with a smile. "Well?"

Letty saw that she was expected to praise, and she did her best, his smile still bent upon
her. He was perfectly aware all the time of the fatuity of what she was saying. She had caught
up since her engagement a certain number of political phrases, and it amused him to note the
cheap and tinkling use she made of them. Nevertheless she was chatting, smiling, gesticulating,
for his pleasure. She was posing for him, using her grey eyes in these expressive ways, all
for him. He thought her the most entertaining plaything; though it did occur to him sometimes
that when they were married he would give her instruction.

"Ah, well, you liked it--that's good!" he said at last, interrupting her. "We've begun well,
any way. It'll be rather hard, though, to have to speak after that on Monday!"

"As if you need be afraid! You're not, you know--it's only mock modesty. Do you know that Lady
Maxwell was sitting two from me?"

"No! Well, how did she like Fontenoy?"

"She never moved after he got up. She pressed her face against that horrid grating, and stared
at him all the time. I thought she was very flushed--but that may have been the heat--and in
a very bad temper," added Letty, maliciously. "I talked to her a little about your adventure."

"Did she remember my existence?"

"Oh dear, yes! She said she expected you on Sunday. She never asked me to come." Letty looked
arch. "But then one doesn't expect her to have pretty manners. People say she is shy. But,
of course, that is only your friends' way of saying that you're rude."

"She wasn't rude to you?" said George, outwardly eager, inwardly sceptical. "Shall I not go
on Sunday?"

"But of course you must go. We shall have to know them. She's not a woman's woman--that's all.
Now, are we going to get some dinner, for Tully and I are famishing?"

"Come along, then, and I'll collect the party."

George had asked a few of his acquaintance in the House to meet his betrothed, together with
an old General Tressady and his wife who were his distant cousins. The party were to assemble
in the room of an under-secretary much given to such hospitable functions; and thither accordingly
George led the way.

The room, when they reached it, was already fairly full of people, and alive with talk.

"Another party!" said George, looking round him. "Benson is great at this sort of thing."

"Do you see Lady Maxwell?" said Letty, in his ear.

George looked to his right, and perceived the lady in question. She also recognised him at
once, and bowed, but without rising. She was the centre of a group of people, who were gathered
round her and the small table on which she was leaning, and they were so deeply absorbed in
the conversation that had been going on that they hardly noticed the entrance of Tressady and
his companion.

"Leven has a party, you see," said the under-secretary. "Blaythwaite was to have taken them
in--couldn't at the last moment; so they had to come in here. This is your side of the room!
But none of your guests have come yet. Dinner at the House in the winter is a poor sort of
business, Miss Sewell. We want the Terrace for these occasions."

He led the young girl to a sofa at the further end of the room, and made himself agreeable,
to him the easiest process in the world. He was a fashionable and charming person, in the most
irreproachable of frock-coats, and Letty was soon at her ease with him, and mistress of all
her usual arts and graces.

"You know Lady Maxwell?" he said to her, with a slight motion of the head towards the distant
group.

Letty replied; and while she and her companion chattered, George, who was standing behind them,
watched the other party.

They were apparently in the thick of an argument, and Lady Maxwell, whose hands were lightly
clasped on the table in front of her, was leaning forward with the look of one who had just
shot her bolt, and was waiting to see how it would strike.

It struck apparently in the direction of her vis-a-vis, Sir Frank Leven, for he bent over to
her, making a quick reply in a half-petulant boy's voice. He had been three years in the House,
but had still the air of an Eton "swell" in his last half.

Lady Maxwell listened to what he had to say, a sort of silent passion in her face all the time--a
noble passion nobly restrained.

When he stopped, George caught her reply.

"He has neither seen nor felt--every sentence showed it--that is all one can say. How can one
take his judgment?"

George's mouth twitched. He slipped, smiling, into a place beside Letty. "Did you hear that?"
he inquired.

"Fontenoy's speech, of course," said the under-secretary, looking round. "She's pitching into
Leven, I suppose. He's as cranky and unsound as he can be. Shouldn't wonder if you got him
before long."

He nodded good-temperedly to Tressady, then got up to speak to a man on the edge of the further
group.

"How amusing!" said George, his satirical eyes still watching Lady Maxwell. "How much that
set has 'seen and felt' of sweaters, and white-lead workers, and that ilk! Don't they look
like it?"

"Who are they?"

Letty was now using all her eyes to find out, and especially for the purpose of carrying away
a mental photograph of Lady Maxwell's black hat and dress.

"Oh! the Maxwells' particular friends in the House--most of them as well provided with family
and goods as they make 'em: a philanthropic, idealist lot, that yearns for the people, and
will be the first to be kicked downstairs when the people gets its own. However, they aren't
all quite happy in their minds. Frank Leven there, as Benson says, is decidedly shaky. He is
the member for the Maxwells' division--Maxwell, of course, put him in. He has a house there,
I believe, and he married Lady Maxwell's great friend, Miss Macdonald--an ambitious little
party, they say, who simply insisted on his going into Parliament. Oh, then, Bennett is there--do
you see?--the little dark man with a frock-coat and spectacles? He's Lady Maxwell's link with
the Independents--oldest workman member--been in the House a long time, so that by now he isn't
quite as one-eyed and one-eared as the rest of them. I suppose she hopes to make use of him
at critical moments--she takes care to have tools of all sorts. Gracious--listen!"

There was, indeed, a very storm of discussion sweeping through the rival party. Lady Maxwell's
penetrating but not loud voice seemed to pervade it, and her eyes and face, as she glanced
from one speaker to another, drew alternately the shafts and the sympathy of the rest.

Tressady made a face.

"I say, Letty, promise me one thing!" His hand stole towards hers. Tully discreetly looked
the other way. "Promise me not to be a political woman, there's a dear!"

Letty hastily withdrew her fingers, having no mind at all for caresses in public.

"But I must be a political woman--I shall have to be! I know heaps of girls and married women
who get up everything in the papers--all the stupidest things--not because they know anything
about it, or because they care a rap, but because some of their men friends happen to be members;
and when they come to see you, you must know what to talk to them about."

"Must you?" said George, "How odd! As though one went to tea with a woman for the sake of talking
about the very same things you have been doing all day, and are probably sick to death of already."

"Never mind," said Letty, with her little air of sharp wisdom. "I know they do it, and I shall
have to do it too. I shall pick it up."

"Will you? Of course you will! Only, when I've got a big Bill on, let me do a little of it
for myself--give me some of the credit!"

Letty laughed maliciously.

"I don't know why you've taken such a dislike to her," she said, but in rather a contented
tone, as her eye once more travelled across to Lady Maxwell. "Does she trample on her husband,
after all?"

Tressady gave an impatient shrug.

"Trample on him? Goodness, no! That's all part of the play, too--wifely affection and the rest
of it. Why can't she keep out of sight a little? We don't want the women meddling."

"Thank you, my domestic tyrant!" said Letty, making him a little bow.

"How much tyranny will you want before you accept those sentiments?" he asked her, smiling
tenderly into her eyes. Both had a moment's pleasant thrill; then George sprang up.

"Ah, here they are at last!--the General, and all the lot. Now, I hope, we shall get some dinner."

Tressady had, of course, to introduce his elderly cousins and his three or four political friends
to his future wife; and, amid the small flutter of the performance, the break-up and disappearance
of the rival party passed unnoticed. When Tressady's guests entered the dining-room which looks
on the terrace, and made their way to the top table reserved for them, the Leven dinner, near
the door, was already half through.

George's little banquet passed merrily enough. The grey-haired General and his wife turned
out to be agreeable and well-bred people, quite able to repay George's hospitality by the dropping
of little compliments on the subject of Letty into his half-yielded ear. For his way of taking
such things was always a trifle cynical. He believed that people say habitually twice what
they mean, whether in praise or blame; and he did not feel that his own view of Letty was much
affected by what other people thought of her.

So, at least, he would have said. In reality, he got a good deal of pleasure out of his fiancee's
success. Letty, indeed, was enjoying herself greatly. This political world, as she had expected,
satisfied her instinct for social importance better than any world she had yet known. She was
determined to get on in it; nor, apparently, was there likely to be any difficulty in the matter.
George's friends thought her a pretty, lively creature, and showed the usual inclination of
the male sex to linger in her society. She mostly wanted to be informed as to the House and
its ways. It was all so new to her!--she said. But her ignorance was not insipid; her questions
had flavour. There was much talk and laughter; Letty felt herself the mistress of the table,
and her social ambitions swelled within her.

Suddenly George's attention was recalled to the Maxwell table by the break-up of the group
around it. He saw Lady Maxwell rise and look round her as though in search of someone. Her
eyes fell upon him, and he involuntarily rose at the same instant to meet the step she made
towards him.

"I must say another word of thanks to you"--she held out her hand. "That girl and her grandmother
were most grateful to you."

"Ah, well!--I must come and make my report. Sunday, I think you said?"

She assented. Then her expression altered:

"When do you speak?"

The question fell out abruptly, and took George by surprise.

"I? On Monday, I believe, if I get my turn. But I fear the British Empire will go on if I don't!"

She threw a glance of scrutiny at his thin, whimsical face, with its fair moustache and sunburnt
skin.

"I hear you are a good speaker," she said simply. "And you are entirely with Lord Fontenoy?"

He bowed lightly, his hands on his sides.

"You'll agree our case was well put? The worst of it--"

Then he stopped. He saw that Lady Maxwell had ceased to listen to him. She turned her head
towards the door, and, without even saying good-bye to him, she hurried away from him towards
the further end of the room.

"Maxwell, I see!" said Tressady to himself, with a shrug, as he returned to his seat. "Not
flattering--but rather pretty, all the same!"

He was thinking of the quick change that had remade the face while he was talking to her--a
change as lovely as it was unconscious.

Lord Maxwell, indeed, had just entered the dining-room in search of his wife, and he and she
now left it together, while the rest of the Leven party gradually dispersed. Letty also announced
that she must go home.

"Let me just go back into the House and see what is going on," said George. "Ten to one I sha'n't
be wanted, and I could see you home."

He hurried off, only to return in a minute with the news that the debate was given up to a
succession of superfluous people, and he was free, at any rate for an hour. Letty, Miss Tulloch,
and he accordingly made their way to Palace Yard. A bright moon shone in their faces as they
emerged into the open air, which was still mild and spring-like, as it had been all the week.

"I say--send Miss Tulloch home in a cab!" George pleaded in Letty's ear, "and walk with me
a bit. Come and look at the moon over the river. I will bring you back to the bridge and put
you in a cab."

Letty looked astonished and demure. "Aunt Charlotte would be shocked," she said.

George grew impatient, and Letty, pleased with his impatience, at last yielded. Tully, the
most complaisant of chaperons, was put into a hansom and despatched.

As the pair reached the entrance of Palace Yard they were overtaken by a brougham, which drew
up an instant in the gateway itself, till it should find an opening in the traffic outside.

"Look!" said George, pressing Letty's arm.

She looked round hurriedly, and, as the lamps of the gateway shone into the carriage, she caught
a vivid glimpse of the people inside it. Their faces were turned towards each other as though
in intimate conversation--that was all. The lady's hands were crossed on her knee; the man
held a despatch-box. In a minute they were gone; but both Letty and George were left with the
same impression--the sense of something exquisite surprised. It had already visited George
that evening, only a few minutes earlier, in connection with the same woman's face.

Letty laughed, rather consciously.

George looked down upon her as he guided her through the gate.

"Some people seem to find it pleasant to be together!" he said, with a vibration in his voice.
"But why did we look?" he added, discontentedly.

"How could we help it, you silly boy?"

They walked to wards the bridge and down the steps, happy in each other, and freshened by the
night breeze. Over the river the moon, hung full and white, and beneath it everything--the
silver tracks on the water, the blaze of light at Charing Cross Station, the lamps on Westminster
Bridge and in the passing steamers, a train of barges, even the darkness of the Surrey shore--had
a gentle and poetic air. The vast city had, as it were, veiled her greatness and her tragedy;
she offered herself kindly and protectingly to these two--to their happiness and their youth.

George made his companion wait beside the parapet and look, while he himself drew in the air
with a sort of hunger.

"To think of the hours we spend in this climate," he said, "caged up in abominable places like
the House of Commons!"

The traveller's distaste for the monotony of town and indoor life spoke in his vehemence. Letty
raised her eyebrows.

"I am very glad of my furs, thank you! You seem to forget that it is February."

"Never mind!--since Monday it has had the feel of April. Did you see my mother to-day?"

"Yes. She caught me just after luncheon, and we talked for an hour."

"Poor darling! I ought to have been there to protect you. But she vowed she would have her
say about that house."

He looked down upon her, trying to see her expression in the shifting light. He had gone through
a disagreeable little scene with his mother at breakfast. She had actually lectured him on
the rashness of taking the Brook Street house!--he understanding the whole time that what the
odd performance really meant was, that if he took it he would have a smaller margin of income
wherefrom to supplement her allowance.

"Oh, it was all right!" said Letty, composedly. "She declared we should get into difficulties
at once, that I could have no idea of the value of money, that you always had been extravagant,
that everybody would be astonished at our doing such a thing, etcetera, etcetera. I think--you
don't mind?--I think she cried a little. But she wasn't really very unhappy."

"What did you say?"

"Well, I suggested that when we were married, we and she should both set up account-books;
and I promised faithfully that if she would let us see hers, we would let her see ours."

George threw back his head with a gurgle of laughter.

"Well?"

"She was afraid," said Letty, demurely, "that I didn't take things seriously enough. Then I
asked her to come and see my gowns."

"And that, I suppose, appeased her?"

"Not at all. She turned up her nose at everything, by way of punishing me. You see, she had
on a new-Worth--the third since Christmas. My poor little trousseau rags had no chance."

"H'm!" said George, meditatively. "I wonder how my mamma is going to manage when we are married,"
he added, after a pause.

Letty made no reply. She was walking firmly and briskly; her eyes, full of a sparkling decision,
looked straight before her; her little mouth was close set. Meanwhile through George's mind
there passed a number of fragmentary answers to his own question. His feeling towards his mother
was wholly abnormal; he had no sense of any unseemliness in the conversation about her which
was gradually growing common between himself and Letty; and he meant to draw strict lines in
the future. At the same time, there was the tie of old habit, and of that uneasy and unwelcome
responsibility with regard to her which had descended upon him at the time of his father's
death. He could not honestly regard himself as an affectionate son; but the filial relationship,
even in its most imperfect aspect, has a way of imposing itself.

"Ah, well! I daresay we shall pull through," he said, dismissing the familiar worry with a
long breath. "Why, how far we have come!" he added, looking back at Charing Cross and the Westminster
towers. "And how extraordinarily mild it is! We can't turn back yet, and you'll be tired if
I race you on in this way. Look, Letty, there's a seat! Would you be afraid--just five minutes?"

Letty looked doubtful.

"It's so absurdly late. George, you are funny! Suppose somebody came by who knew us?"

He opened his eyes.

"And why not? But see! there isn't a carriage, and hardly a person, in sight. Just a minute!"

Most unwillingly Letty let herself be persuaded. It seemed to her a foolish and extravagant
thing to do; and there was now no need for either folly or extravagance. Since her engagement
she had dropped a good many of the small audacities of the social sort she had so freely allowed
herself before it. It was as though, indeed, now that these audacities had served their purpose,
some stronger and perhaps inherited instincts emerged in her, obscuring the earlier self. George
was sometimes astonished by an ultra-conventional note, of which certainly he had heard nothing
in their first days of intimacy at Malford.

However, she sat down beside him, protesting. But he had no sooner stolen her hand, than the
moonlight showed her a dark, absent look creeping over his face. And to her amazement he began
to talk about the House of Commons, about the Home Secretary's speech, of all things in the
world! He seemed to be harking back to Mr. Dowson's arguments, to some of the stories the Home
Secretary had told of those wretched people who apparently enjoy dying of overwork and phosphorus,
and white-lead, who positively will die of them, unless the inspectors are always harrying
them. He still held her hand, but she saw he was not thinking of her; and a sudden pique rose
in her small mind. Generally, she accepted his love-making very coolly--just as it came, or
did not come. But to-night she asked herself with irritation--for what had he led her into
his silly escapade, but to make love to her? And now here were her fingers slipping out of
his, while he harangued her on things she knew and cared nothing about, in a voice and manner
he might have addressed to anybody!

"Well, I don't understand--I really don't!" she interrupted sharply. "I thought you were all
against the Government--I thought you didn't believe a word they say!"

He laughed.

"The difference between them and us, darling, is only that they think the world can be mended
by Act of Parliament, and we think it can't. Do what you will, we say the world is, and must
be, a wretched hole for the majority of those that live in it; they suppose they can cure it
by quack meddlings and tyrannies."

He looked straight before him, absorbed, and she was struck with the harsh melancholy of his face.

What on earth had he kept her here for to talk this kind of talk!

"George, I really must go!" she began, flushing, and drawing her hand away.

Instantly he turned to her, his look brightening and melting.

"Must you? Well, the world sha'n't be a wretched hole for us, shall it, darling? We'll make
a little nest in it--we'll forget what we can't help--we'll be happy as long as the fates let
us--won't we, Letty?"

His arm slipped round behind her. He caught her hands.

He had recollected himself. Nevertheless Letty was keenly conscious that it was all most absurd,
this sitting on a seat in a public thoroughfare late at night, and behaving like any 'Arry
and 'Arriet.

"Why, of course we shall be happy," she said, rising with decision as she spoke; "only somehow
I don't always understand you, George. I wish I knew what you were really thinking about."

"You!" he said, laughing, and drawing her hand within his arm, as they turned backwards towards
the bridge.

She shook her head doubtfully. Whereupon he awoke fully to the situation, and during the short
remainder of their walk he wooed and flattered her as usual. But when he had put her safely
into a hansom at the corner of the bridge, and smiled good-bye to her, he turned to walk back
to the House in much sudden flatness of mood. Her little restless egotisms of mind and manner
had chilled him unawares. Had Fontenoy's speech been so fine, after all? Were politics--was
anything--quite worth while? It seemed to him that all emotions were small, all crises disappointing.

CHAPTER VI

The following Sunday, somewhere towards five o'clock, George rang the bell of the Maxwells'
house in St. James's Square. It was a very fine house, and George's eye, as he stood waiting,
ran over the facade with an amused, investigating look.

He allowed himself the same expression once or twice in the hall, as one mute and splendid
person relieved him of his coat, and another, equally mute and equally unsurpassable, waited
for him on the stairs, while across a passage beyond the hall he saw two red-liveried footmen
carrying tea.

"When one is a friend of the people," he pondered as he went upstairs, "is one limited in horses
but not in flunkeys? These things are obscure."

He was ushered first into a stately outer drawing-room, filled with old French furniture and
fine pictures; then the butler lifted a velvet curtain, pronounced the visitor's name with
a voice and emphasis as perfectly trained as the rest of him, and stood aside for George to enter.

He found himself on the threshold of a charming room looking west, and lit by some last beams
of February sun. The pale-green walls were covered with a medley of prints and sketches. A
large writing-table, untidily heaped with papers, stood conspicuous on the blue self-coloured
carpet, which over a great part of the floor was pleasantly void and bare. Flat earthenware
pans, planted with hyacinths and narcissus, stood here and there, and filled the air with spring
scents. Books ran round the lower walls, or lay piled where-ever there was a space for them;
while about the fire at the further end was gathered a circle of chintz-covered chairs--chairs
of all shapes and sizes, meant for talking. The whole impression of the pretty, disorderly
place, compared with the stately drawing-room behind it, was one of intimity and freedom; the
room made a friend of you as you entered.

Half a dozen people were sitting with Lady Maxwell when Tressady was announced. She rose to
meet him with great cordiality, introduced him to little Lady Leven, an elfish creature in
a cloud of fair hair, and with a pleasant "You know all the rest," offered him a chair beside
herself and the tea-table.

"The rest" were Frank Leven, Edward Watton, Bayle, the Foreign Office private secretary who
had been staying at Malford House at the time of Tressady's election, and Bennett, the "small,
dark man" whom George had pointed out to Letty in the House as a Labour member, and one of
the Maxwells' particular friends.

"Well?" said Lady Maxwell, turning to her new visitor as she handed him some tea, "were you
as much taken with the grandmother as the grandmother was taken with you? She told me she had
never seen a 'more haffable gentleman, nor one as she'd a been more willin to ha done for'!"

George laughed. "I see," he said, "that my report has been anticipated."

"Yes--I have been there. I have found a 'case' in them indeed--alack! The granny--I am afraid
she is an unseemly old woman--and the elder girl both work for the Jew son-in-law on the first
floor--homework of the most abominable kind--that girl will be dead in a year if it goes on."

George was rapidly conscious of two contradictory impressions--one of pleasure, one of annoyance--pleasure
in her tall, slim presence, her white hand, and all the other flashing points of a beauty not
to be denied--and irritation that she should have talked "shop" to him with her first breath.
Could one never escape this altruistic chatter?

But he was not left to grapple with it alone, for Lady Leven looked up quickly.

"Mr. Watton, will you please take Lady Maxwell's tea away if she mentions the word 'case' again?
We gave her fair warning."

Lady Maxwell hastily clasped both her hands round her tea-cup.

"Betty, we have discussed the opera for at least twenty minutes."

"Yes--at peril of our lives!" said Lady Leven. "I never talked so fast before. One felt as
though one must say everything one had to say about Melba and the de Reszkes, all in one breath--before
one's poor little subject was torn from one--one would never have such a chance again."

Lady Maxwell laughed, but coloured too.

"Am I such a nuisance?" she said, dropping her hands on her knee with a little sigh. Then she
turned to Tressady.

"But Lady Leven really makes it out worse than it is. We haven't even approached a Factory
Act all the afternoon."

Lady Leven sprang forward in her chair. "Because! because, my dear, we simply declined to let
you. We made a league--didn't we, Mr. Bennett?--even you joined it."

Bennett smiled.

"Lady Maxwell overworks herself--we all know that," he said, his look, at once kind, honest,
and perennially embarrassed, passing from Lady Leven to his hostess.

"Oh, don't sympathise, for Heaven's sake!" cried Betty. "Wage war upon her--it's our only hope."

"Don't you think Sunday at least ought to be frivolous?" said Tressady, smiling, to Lady Maxwell.

"Well, personally, I like to talk about what interests me on Sunday as well as on other days,"
she said with a frank simplicity; "but I know I ought to be kept in order--I become a terrible
bore."

Frank Leven roused himself from the sofa on which he had languidly subsided.

"Bores?" he said indignantly, "we're all bores. We all have been bores since people began to
think about what they're pleased to call 'social work.' Why should I love my neighbour?--I'd
much rather hate him. I generally do."

"Doesn't it all depend," said Tressady, "on whether he happens to be able to make it disagreeable
for you in return?"

"That's just it," said Betty Leven, eagerly. "I agree with Frank--it's all so stupid, this
'loving' everybody. It makes one positively hot. We sit under a clergyman, Frank and I, who
talks of nothing every Sunday but love--love--like that, long-drawn-out--how our politics should
be 'love,' and our shopping should be 'love'--till we long simply to bastinado somebody. I
want to have a little real nice cruelty--something sharp and interesting. I should like to
stick pins into my maid, only unfortunately, as she has more than once pointed out to me, it
would be so much easier for her to stick them into me!"

"You want the time of Miss Austen's novels back again," said young Bayle, stooping to her,
with his measured and agreeable smile--"before even the clergy had a mission."

"Ah! but it would be no good," said Lady Leven, sighing, "if she were there!"

She threw out her small hand towards her hostess, and everybody laughed.

Up to the moment of the laugh, Lady Maxwell had been lying back in her chair listening, the
beautiful mouth absently merry, and the eyes speaking--Tressady thought--of quite other things,
of some hidden converse of her own, going on in the brain behind the eyes. A certain prophetess-air
seemed natural to her. Nevertheless, that first impression of her he had carried away from
the hospital scene was being somehow blurred and broken up.

She joined in the laugh against herself; then, with a little nod towards her assailant, she
said to Edward Watton, who was sitting on her right hand. "You're not taken in, I know."

"Oh, if you mean that I go in for 'cases' and 'causes' too," cried Lady Leven, interrupting,
"of course I do--I can't be left alone. I must dance as my generation pipes."

"Which means," said her husband, drily, "that she went for two days filling soda-water bottles
the week before last, and a day's shirt-making last week. From the first, I was told that she
would probably return to me with an eye knocked out, she being totally inexperienced and absurdly
rash. As to the second, to judge from the description she gave me of the den she had been sitting
in when she came home, and the headache she had next day, I still expect typhoid. The fortnight
isn't up till Wednesday."

There was a shout of mingled laughter and inquiry.

"How did you do it?--and whom did you bribe?" said Bayle to Lady Leven.

"I didn't bribe anybody," she said indignantly. "You don't understand. My friends introduced me."

Then, drawn out by him, she plunged into a lively account of her workshop experiences, interrupted
every now and then by the sarcastic comments of her husband and the amusement of the two younger
men who had brought their chairs close to her. Betty Leven ranked high among the lively chatterboxes
of her day and set.

Lady Maxwell, however, had not laughed at Frank Leven's speech. Rather, as he spoke of his
wife's experiences, her face had clouded, as though the blight of some too familiar image,
some sad ever-present vision, had descended upon her.

Beimett also did not laugh. He watched the Levens indulgently for a few minutes, then insensibly
he, Lady Maxwell, Edward Watton, and Tressady drew together into a circle of their own.

"Do you gather that Lord Fontenoy's speech on Friday has been much taken up in the country?"
said Bennett, bending forward and addressing Lady Maxwell. Tressady, who was observing him,
noticed that his dress was precisely the "Sunday best" of the respectable workman, and was,
moreover, reminded by the expression of the eyes and brow that Bennett was said to have been
a well-known "local preacher" in his north-country youth.

Lady Maxwell smiled, and pointed to Tressady.

"Here," she said, "is Lord Fontenoy's first-lieutenant."

Bennett looked at George.

"I should be glad," he said, "to know what Sir George thinks?"

"Why, certainly--we think it has been very warmly taken up," said George, promptly--"to judge
from the newspapers, the letters that have been pouring in, and the petitions that seem to
be preparing."

Lady Maxwell's eyes gleamed. She looked at Bennett silently a moment, then she said:

"Isn't it amazing to you how strong an impossible case can be made to look?"

"It is inevitable," said Bennett, with a little shrug, "quite inevitable. These social experiments
of ours are so young--there is always a strong case to be made out against any of them, and
there will be for years to come."

"Well and good," said George; "then we cavillers are inevitable too. Don't attack us--praise
us rather; by your own confession, we are as much a part of the game as you are."

Bennett smiled slightly, but did not in reality quite follow. Lady Maxwell bent forward.

"Do you know whether Lord Fontenoy has any personal knowledge of the trades he was speaking
about?" she said, in her rich eager voice; "that is what I want so much to find out."

George was nettled by both the question and the manner.

"I regard Fontenoy as a very competent person," he said drily. "I imagine he did his best to
inform himself. But there was not much need; the persons concerned--whom you think you are
protecting--were so very eager to inform us!"

Lady Maxwell flushed.

"And you think that settles it--the eagerness of the cheap life to be allowed to maim and waste
itself? But again and again English law has stepped in to prevent it--and again and again everybody
has been thankful."

"It is all a question of balance, of course," said George. "Must a few unwise people be allowed
to kill themselves--or thousands lose their liberty?"

His blue eyes scanned her beautiful impetuous face with a certain cool hardness. Internally
he was more and more in revolt against a "monstrous regiment of women" and the influence upon
the most complex economic problems of such a personality as that before him.

But his word "liberty" pricked her. The look of feeling passed away. Her eyes kindled as sharply
and drily as his own.

"Freedom?--let me quote you Cromwell! 'Every sectary saith, "O give me liberty!" But give it
him, and to the best of his power he will yield it to no one else.' So with your careless or
brutal employer--give him liberty, and no one else shall get it."

"Only by metaphor--not legally," said George, stubbornly. "So long as men are not slaves by
law there is always a chance for freedom. Any way we stand for freedom--as an end, not a means.
It is not the business of the State to make people happy--not at all!--at least that is our
view--but it is the business of the State to keep them free."

"Ah!" said Bennett, with a long breath, "there you've hit the nail--the whole difference between
you and us."

George nodded. Lady Maxwell did not speak immediately. But George was conscious that he was
being observed, closely considered. Their glances crossed an instant, in antagonism, certainly,
if not in dislike.

"How long is it since you came home from India?" she asked him suddenly.

"About six months."

"And you were, I think, a long time abroad?"

"Nearly four years. Does that make you think I have not had much time to get up the things
I am going to vote about?" said the young man, laughing. "I don't know! On the broadest issues
of politics, one makes up one's mind as well in Asia as in Europe--better perhaps."

"On the Empire, I suppose--and England's place in the world? That's a side which--I know--I
remember much too little. You think our life depends on a governing class--and that we and
democracy are weakening that class too much?"

"That's about it. And for democracy it is all right. But you--you are the traitors!"

His thrust, however, did not rouse her to any corresponding rhetoric. She smiled merely, and
began to question him about his travels. She did it with great deftness, so that after an answer
or two both his temper and manner insensibly softened, and he found himself talking with ease
and success. His mixed personality revealed itself--his capacity for certain veiled enthusiasms,
his respect for power, for knowledge, his pessimist beliefs as to the average lot of men.

Bennett, who listened easily, was glad to help her make her guest talk. Frank Leven left the
group near the sofa and came to listen, too. Tressady was more and more spurred, carried out
of himself. Lady Maxwell's fine eyes and stately ways were humanised after all by a quick responsiveness,
which for most people, however critical, made conversation with her draw like a magnet. Her
intelligence, too, was competent, left the mere feminine behind in these connections that Tressady
offered her, no less than in others. She had not lived in the world of high politics for nearly
five years for nothing; so that unconsciously, and indeed quite against his will, Tressady
found himself talking to her, after a while, as though she had been a man and an equal, while
at the same time taking more pains than he would ever have taken for a man.

"Well, you have seen a lot!" said Frank Leven at last, with a rather envious sigh.

Bennett's modest face suddenly reddened.

"If only Sir George will use his eyes to as good purpose at home--" he said involuntarily,
then stopped. Few men were more unready and awkward in conversation; yet when roused he was
one of the best platform speakers of his day.

George laughed.

"One sees best what appeals to one, I am afraid," he said, only to be instantly conscious that
he had made a rather stupid admission in face of the enemy.

Lady Maxwell's lip twitched; he saw the flash of some quick thought cross her face. But she
said nothing.

Only when he got up to go, she bade him notice that she was always at home on Sundays, and
would be glad that he should remember it. He made a rather cold and perfunctory reply. Inwardly
he said to himself, "Why does she say nothing of Letty, whom she knows--and of our marriage--if
she wants to make friends?"

Nevertheless, he left the house with the feeling of one who has passed an hour not of the common
sort. He had done himself justice, made his mark. And as for her--in spite of his flashes of
dislike he carried away a strong impression of something passionate and vivid that clung to
the memory. Or was it merely eyes and pose, that astonishingly beautiful colour, and touch
of classic dignity which she got--so the world said--from some remote strain of Italian blood?
Most probably! All the same, she had fewer of the ordinary womanly arts than he had imagined.
How easy it would have been to send that message to Letty she had not sent! He thought simply
that for a clever woman she might have been more adroit.

       *       *       *       *       *

The door had no sooner closed behind Tressady than Betty Leven, with a quick look after him,
bent across to her hostess, and said in a stage whisper:

"Who? Post me up, please."

"One of Fontenoy's gang," said her husband, before Lady Maxwell could answer. "A new member,
and as sharp as needles. He's been exactly to all the places where I want to go, Betty, and
you won't let me."

He glanced at his wife with a certain sharpness. For Tressady had spoken in passing of nilghai-shooting
in the Himalayas, and the remark had brought the flush of an habitual discontent to the young
man's cheek.

Betty merely held out a white child's wrist.

"Button my glove, please, and don't talk. I have got ever so many questions to ask Marcella."

Leven applied himself rather sulkily to his task while Betty pursued her inquiries.

"Isn't he going to marry Letty Sewell?"

"Yes," said Lady Maxwell, opening her eyes rather wide. "Do you know her?"

"Why, my dear, she's Mr. Watton's cousin--isn't she?" said Betty, turning towards that young
man. "I saw her once at your mother's."

"Certainly she is my cousin," said that young man, smiling, "and she is going to marry Tressady
at Easter. So much I can vouch for, though I don't know her so well, perhaps, as the rest of
my family do."

"Oh!" said Betty, drily, releasing her husband and crossing her small hands across her knee.
"That means--Miss Sewell isn't one of Mr. Watton's favourite cousins. You don't mind talking
about your cousins, do you? You may blacken the character of all mine. Is she nice?"

"Who--Letty? Why, of course she is nice," said Edward Watton, laughing. "All young ladies are."

"Oh goodness!" said Betty, shaking her halo of gold hair. "Commend me to cousins for letting
one down easy."

"Too bad, Lady Leven!" said Watton, getting up to escape. "Why not ask Bayle? He knows all
things. Let me hand you over to him. He will sing you all my cousin's charms."

"Delighted!" said Bayle as he, too, rose--"only unfortunately I ought at this moment to be
at Wimbledon."

He had the air of a typical official, well dressed, suave, and infinitely self-possessed, as
he held out his hand--deprecatingly--to Lady Leven.

"Oh! you private secretaries!" said Betty, pouting and turning away from him.

"Don't abolish us," he said, pleading. "We must live."

"Je n'en vois pas la necessite!" said Betty, over her shoulder.

"Betty, what a babe you are!" cried her husband, as Bayle, Watton, and Bennett all disappeared
together.

"Not at all!" cried Betty. "I wanted to get some truth out of somebody. For, of course, the
real truth is that this Miss Sewell is--"

"Is what?" said Leven, lost in admiration all the time, as Lady Maxwell saw, of his wife's
dainty grace and rose-leaf colour.

"Well--a--minx!" said Betty, with innocent slowness, opening her blue eyes very wide; "a mischievous--rather
pretty--hard-hearted--flirting--little minx!"

"Really, Betty!" cried Lady Maxwell. "Where have you seen her?"

"Oh, I saw her last year several times at the Wattons' and other places," said Betty, composedly.
"And so did you too, please, madam. I remember very well one day Mrs. Watton brought her into
the Winterbournes' when you and I were there, and she chattered a great deal."

"Oh yes!--I had forgotten."

"Well, my dear, you'll soon have to remember her! so you needn't talk in that lofty tone. For
they're going to be married at Easter, and if you want to make friends with the young man,
you'll have to realise the wife!"

"Married at Easter? How do you know?"

"In the first place Mr. Watton said so, in the next there are such things as newspapers. But
of course you didn't notice such trifles, you never do."

"Betty, you're very cross with me to-day!" Lady Maxwell looked up at her friend with a little
pleading air.

"Oh no! only for your good. I know you're thinking of nothing in the world but how to make
that man take a reasonable view of Maxwell's Bill. And I want to impress upon you that he's
probably thinking a great deal more about getting married than about Factory Bills. You see,
your getting married was a kind of accident. But other people are different. And oh, dear,
you do know so little about them when they don't live hi four pair backs! There, don't defend
yourself--you sha'n't!"

And, stooping, Betty stifled her friend's possible protest by kissing her.

"Now then, come along, Frank--you've got your speech to write--and I've got to copy it out.
Don't swear! you know you're going to have two whole days' golfing next week. Good-bye, Marcella!
My love to Aldous--and tell him not to be so late next time I come to tea. Good-bye!"

And off she swept, pausing, however, on the landing to open the door again and put in an eager
face.

"Oh! and, by the way, the young man has a mother--Frank reminded me. His womenkind don't seem
to be his strong point--but as she doesn't earn even four-and-sixpence a week--very sadly the
contrary--I won't tell you any more now, or you'll forget. Next time!"

When Marcella Maxwell was at last left alone, she began to pace slowly up and down the large
bare room, as it was very much her wont to do.

She was thinking of George Tressady, and of the personality his talk had seemed to reveal.

"His heart is all in power--in what he takes for magnificence." she said to herself. "He talks
as if he had no humanity, and did not care a rap for anybody. But it is a pose--I think it
is a pose. He is interesting--he will develop. One would like--to show him things."

After another pensive turn or two she stopped beside a photograph that stood upon her writing-table.
It was a photograph of her husband--a tall, smoothfaced man, with pleasant eyes, features of
no particular emphasis, and the free carriage of the country-bred Englishman. As she looked
at it her face relaxed unconsciously, inevitably; under the stimulus of some habitual and secret
joy. It was for his sake, for his sake only that she was still thinking of George Tressady,
still pondering the young man's character and remarks.

So much at least was true--no other member of Fontenoy's party had as yet given her even the
chance of arguing with him. Once or twice in society she had tried to approach Fontenoy himself,
to get somehow into touch with him. But she had made no way. Lord Fontenoy had simply turned
his square-jawed face and red-rimmed eyes upon her with a stupid irresponsive air, which Marcella
knew perfectly well to be a mask, while it protected him none the less effectively for that
against both her eloquence and her charm. The other members of the party were young aristocrats,
either of the ultra-exclusive or of the sporting type. She had made her attempts here and there
among them, but with no more success. And once or twice, when she had pushed her attack to
close quarters, she had been suddenly conscious of an underlying insolence in her opponent--a
quick glance of bold or sensual eyes which seemed to relegate the mere woman to her place.

But this young Tressady, for all his narrowness and bitterness, was of a different stamp--or
she thought so.

She began to pace up and down again, lost in reverie, till after a few minutes she came slowly
to a stop before a long Louis Quinze mirror--her hands clasped in front of her, her eyes half
consciously studying what she saw.

Her own beauty invariably gave her pleasure--though very seldom for the reasons that would
have affected other women. She felt instinctively that it made life easier for her than it
could otherwise have been; that it provided her with a natural and profitable "opening" in
any game she might wish to play; and that even among the workmen, unionist leaders, and officials
of the East End it had helped her again and again to score the points that she wanted to make.
She was accustomed to be looked at, to be the centre, to feel things yielding before her; and
without thinking it out, she knew perfectly well what it was she gained by this "fair seeming
show" of eye and lip and form. Somehow it made nothing seem impossible to her; it gave her
a dazzling self-confidence.

The handle of the door turned. She looked round with a smiling start, and waited.

A tall man in a grey suit came in, crossed the room quickly, and put his arms round her. She
leant back against his shoulder, putting up one hand to touch his cheek caressingly.

"Why, how late you are! Betty left reproaches for you."

"I had a walk with Dowson. Then two or three people caught me on the way back--Rashdell among
others." (Lord Rashdell was Foreign Secretary.) "There are some interesting telegrams from
Paris--I copied them out for you."

The country happened to be at the moment in the midst of one of its periodical difficulties
with France. There had been a good deal of diplomatic friction, and a certain amount of anxiety
at the Foreign Office. Marcella lit the silver kettle again and made her man some fresh tea,
while he told her the news, and they discussed the various points of the telegrams he had copied
for her, with a comrade's freedom and vivacity. Then she said:

"Well, I have had an interesting time too! That young Tressady has been to tea."

"Oh! has he? They say there is a lot of stuff in him, and he may do us a great deal of mischief.
How did you find him?"

"Oh, very clever, very limited--and a mass of prejudices," she said, laughing. "I never saw
an odder mixture of knowledge and ignorance."

"What? Knowledge of India and the East?--that kind of thing?"

She nodded.

"Knowledge of everything except the subject he has come home to fight about! Do you know, Aldous--"

She paused. She was sitting on a stool beside him, her arm upon his knee.

"What do I know?" he said, his hand seeking hers.

"Well, I can't help feeling that that man might live and learn. He isn't a mere obstructive
block--like the rest."

Maxwell laughed.

"Then Fontenoy is not as shrewd as usual. They say he regards him as their best recruit."

"Never mind. I rather wish you'd try to make friends with him."

Maxwell, however, helped himself to cake and made no response. On the two or three occasions
on which he had met George Tressady, he had been conscious, if the truth were told, of a certain
vague antipathy to the young man.

Marcella pondered.

"No," she said, "no--I don't think after all he's your sort. Suppose I see what can be done!"

And she got up with her flashing smile--half love, half fun--and crossed the room to summon
her little boy, Hallin, for his evening play. Maxwell looked after her, not heeding at all
what she was saying, heeding only herself, her voice, the atmosphere of charm and life she
carried with her.

CHAPTER VII

Marcella Maxwell, however, had not been easily wooed by the man who now filled all the horizon
of her life. At the time when Aldous Raeburn, as he then was--the grandson and heir of old
Lord Maxwell--came across her first she was a handsome, undeveloped girl, of a type not uncommon
in our modern world, belonging by birth to the country-squire class, and by the chances of
a few years of student life in London to the youth that takes nothing on authority, and puts
to fierce question whatever it finds already on its path--Governments, Churches, the powers
of family and wealth--that takes, moreover, its social pity for the only standard, and spends
that pity only on one sort and type of existence. She accepted Raeburn, then the best parti
in the county, without understanding or loving him, simply that she might use his power and
wealth for certain social ends to which the crude philanthropy of her youth had pledged itself.
Naturally, they were no sooner engaged than Raeburn found himself launched upon a long wrestle
with the girl who had thus--in the selfishness of her passionate idealist youth--opened her
relation to him with a deliberate affront to the heart offered her. The engagement had stormy
passages, and was for a time wholly broken off. Aldous was made bitterly jealous, or miserably
unhappy. Marcella left the old house in the neighbourhood of the Maxwell property, where her
lover had first seen and courted her. She plunged into London life, and into nursing, that
common outlet for the woman at war with herself or society. She suffered and struggled, and
once or twice she came very near to throwing away all her chances of happiness. But in the
end, Maxwell tamed her; Maxwell recovered her. The rise of love in the unruly, impetuous creature,
when the rise came, was like the sudden growth of some great forest flower. It spread with
transforming beauty over the whole nature, till at last the girl who had once looked upon him
as the mere tool of her own moral ambitions threw herself upon Maxwell's heart with a self-abandoning
passion and penitence, which her developed powers and her adorable beauty made a veritable
intoxication.

And Maxwell was worthy that she should do this thing. When he and Marcella first met, he was
a man of thirty, very able, very reserved, and often painfully diffident as to his own powers
and future. He was the only young representative of a famous stock, and had grown up from his
childhood under the shadow of great sorrows and heavy responsibilities. The stuff of the poet
and the thinker lay hidden behind his shy manners; and he loved Marcella Boyce with all the
delicacy, all the idealising respect, that passion generates in natures so strong and so highly
tempered. At the same time, he had little buoyancy or gaiety; he had a belief in his class,
and a constitutional dislike of change, which were always fighting in his mind with the energies
of moral debate; and he acquiesced very easily--perhaps indifferently--in many outward conventions
and prejudices.

The crisis through which Marcella put him developed and matured the man. To the influences
of love, moreover, were added the influences of friendship--of such a friendship as our modern
time but seldom rears to perfection. In Raeburn's college days, a man of rare and delicate
powers had possessed himself of Raeburn's tenacious affection, and had thenceforward played
the leader to Raeburn's strength, physical and moral, availing himself freely, wherever his
own failed him, of the powers and capacities of his friend. For he himself bore in him from
his youth up the seeds of physical failure and early death. It was partly the marvellous struggle
in him of soul with body that subdued to him the homage of the stronger man. And it was clearly
his influence that broke up and fired Raeburn's slower and more distrustful temper, informing
an inbred Toryism, a natural passion for tradition, and the England of tradition with that
"repining restlessness" which is the best spur of noble living.

Hallin was a lecturer and an economist; a man who lived in the perception of the great paradox
that in our modern world political power has gone to the workman, while yet socially and intellectually
he remains little less weak, or starved, or subject than before. When he died he left to Raeburn
a legacy of feelings and ideas, all largely concerned with this contrast between the huge and
growing "tyranny" of the working class and the individual helplessness or bareness of the working
man. And it was these feelings and ideas which from the beginning made a link between Raeburn
and the young revolts and compassions of Marcella Boyce. They were at one in their love of
Edward Hallin; and after Hallin's death, in their sore and tender wish to make his thoughts
tell upon the English world.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Maxwells had now been married some five years, years of almost incredible happiness. The
equal comradeship of marriage at its best and finest, all the daily disciplines, the profound
and painless lessons of love, the covetous bliss of parentage, the constant anxieties of power
nobly understood, had harmonised the stormy nature of the woman, and had transformed the somewhat
pessimist and scrupulous character of the man. Not that life with Marcella Maxwell was always
easy. Now as ever she remained on the moral side a creature of strain and effort, tormented
by ideals not to be realised, and eager to drive herself and others in a breathless pursuit
of them.

But if in some sort she seemed to be always dragging those that loved her through the heart
of a tempest, the tempest had such golden moments! No wife had ever more capacity for all the
delicacies and depths of passion towards the man of her choice. All the anxieties she brought
with her, all the perplexities and difficulties she imposed, had never yet seemed to Maxwell
anything but divinely worth while. So far, indeed, he had never even remotely allowed himself
to put the question. Her faults were her; and she was his light of life.

For some time after their marriage, which took place about a year after his accession to the
title and estates, they had lived at the stately house in Brookshire belonging to the Maxwells,
and Marcella had thrown herself into the management of a large household and property with
characteristic energy and originality. She had tried new ways of choosing and governing her
servants; new ways of entertaining the poor, and of making Maxwell Court the centre, not of
one class, but of all. She ran up a fair score of blunders, but not one of them was the blunder
of meanness or vulgarity. Her nature was inventive and poetic, and the rich fulfilment that
had overtaken her own personal desires did but sting her eager passion to give and to serve.

Meanwhile the family house in town was sold, and what with the birth of her son, and the multiplicity
of the rural interests to which she had set her hand, Marcella felt no need of London. But
towards the end of the second year she perceived--though he said little about it--that there
was in her husband's mind a strong and persistent drawing towards his former political interests
and associations. The late Lord Maxwell had sat in several Conservative cabinets, and his grandson,
after a distinguished career in the House as a private member, had accepted a subordinate place
in the Government only a few months before his grandfather's death transferred him to the Lords.
After that event, a scrupulous conscience had forced him to take landowning as a profession
and an arduous one. The Premier made him flattering advances, and his friends remonstrated,
but he had none the less relinquished office, and buried himself on his land.

Now, however, after some three years' hard and unremitting work, the estate was in excellent
condition; the "new ways" of the new owners had been well started; and both Maxwell and Marcella
had fitting lieutenants who could be left in charge. Moreover, matters were being agitated
at the moment in politics which had special significance for the man's idealist and reflective
mind. His country friends and neighbours hardly understood why.

For it was merely a question of certain further measures of factory reform. A group of labour
leaders were pressing upon the public and the Government a proposal to pass a special Factory
Act for certain districts and trades of East London. In spite of Commissions, in spite of recent
laws, "sweating," so it was urged, was as bad as ever--nay, in certain localities and industries
was more frightful and more oppressive than ever. The waste of life and health involved in
the great clothing industries of East London, for instance, which had provoked law after law,
inquiry after inquiry, still went--so it was maintained--its hideous way.

"Have courage!" cried the reformers. "Take, at last, the only effectual step. Make it penal
to practise certain trades in the houses of the people--drive them all into factories of a
certain size, where alone these degraded industries can be humanised and controlled. Above
all, make up your mind to a legal working day for East London men as well as East London women.
Try the great experiment first of all in this omnivorous, inarticulate London, this dustbin
for the rubbish of all nations. Here the problem is worst--here the victims are weakest and
most manageable. London will bear what would stir a riot in Birmingham or Leeds. Make the experiment
as partial and as tentative as you please--give the Home Office power to extend or revoke it
at will--but try it!"

The change proposed was itself of vast importance, and was, moreover, but a prelude to things
still more far-reaching. But, critical as it was, Maxwell was prepared for it. During the later
years of his friend Hallin's life the two men had constantly discussed the industrial consequences
of democracy with unflagging eagerness and intelligence. To both it seemed not only inevitable,
but the object of the citizen's dearest hopes, that the rule of the people should bring with
it, in ever-ascending degree, the ordering and moralising of the worker's toil. Yet neither
had the smallest belief that any of the great civilised communities would ever see the State
the sole landlord and the sole capitalist; or that Collectivism as a system has, or deserves
to have, any serious prospects in the world. To both, possession--private and personal possession--from
the child's first toy, or the tiny garden where it sows its passionately watched seeds, to
the great business or the great estate, is one of the first and chiefest elements of human
training, not to be escaped by human effort, or only at such a cost of impoverishment and disaster
that mankind would but take the step--supposing it conceivable that it should take it--to retrace
it instantly.

Maxwell's heart, however, was much less concerned with this belief, tenaciously as he held
it, than with its relative--the limitation of private possession by the authority of the common
conscience. That "we are not our own" has not, indeed, been left to Lassalle or Marx to discover.
But if you could have moved this quiet Englishman to speak, he would have said--his strong,
brooding face all kindled and alive--that the enormous industrial development of the past century
has shown us the forces at work in the evolution of human societies on a gigantic scale, and
by thus magnifying them has given us a new understanding of them. The vast extension of the
individual will and power which science has brought to humanity during the last hundred years
was always present to him as food for a natural exultation--a kind of pledge of the boundless
prospects of the race. On the other hand the struggle of society brought face to face with
this huge increment of the individual power, forced to deal with it for its own higher and
mysterious ends, to moralise and socialise it lest it should destroy itself and the State together;
the slow steps by which the modern community has succeeded in asserting itself against the
individual, in protecting the weak from his weakness, the poor from his poverty, in defending
the woman and child from the fierce claims of capital, in forcing upon trade after trade the
axiom that no man may lawfully build his wealth upon the exhaustion and degradation of his
fellow--these things stirred in him the far deeper enthusiasms of the moral nature. Nay more!
Together with all the other main facts which mark the long travail of man's ethical and social
life, they were among the only "evidences" of religion a critical mind allowed itself--the
most striking signs of something "greater than we know" working among the dust and ugliness
of our common day. Attack wealth as wealth, possession as possession, and civilisation is undone.
But bring the force of the social conscience to bear as keenly and ardently as you may, upon
the separate activities of factory and household, farm and office; and from the results you
will only get a richer individual freedom, one more illustration of the divinest law man serves--that
he must "die to live," must surrender to obtain.

Such at least was Maxwell's persuasion; though as a practical man he admitted, of course, many
limitations of time, occasion, and degree. And long companionship with him had impressed the
same faith also on Marcella. With the natural conceit of the shrewd woman, she would probably
have maintained that her social creed came entirely of mother-wit and her own exertions--her
experiences in London, reading, and the rest. In reality it was in her the pure birth of a
pure passion. She had learnt it while she was learning to love Aldous Raeburn; and it need
astonish no one that the more dependent all her various philosophies of life had become on
the mere personal influence and joy of marriage, the more agile had she grown in all that concerned
the mere intellectual defence of them. She could argue better and think better; but at bottom,
if the truth were told, they were Maxwell's arguments and Maxwell's thoughts.

So that when this particular agitation began, and he grew restless in his silent way, she grew
restless too. They took down the old worn portfolios of Hallin's papers and letters, and looked
through them, night after night, as they sat alone together in the great library of the Court.
Both Marcella and Aldous could remember the writing of many of these innumerable drafts of
Acts, these endless memoranda on special points, and must needs try, for love's sake, to forget
the terrible strain and effort with which a dying man had put them together. She was led by
them to think of the many workmen friends she had made during the year of her nursing life;
while he had remembrances of much personal work and investigation of his own, undertaken during
the time of his under-secretaryship, to add to hers. Another Liberal government was slipping
to its fall--if a Conservative government came in, with a possible opening in it for Aldous
Maxwell, what then? Was the chance to be seized?

One May twilight, just before dinner, as the two were strolling up and down the great terrace
just in front of the Court, Aldous paused and looked at the majestic house beside them.

"What's the good of talking about these things while we live there?" he said, with a gesture
towards the house, half impatient, half humorous.

Marcella laughed. Then she sprang away from him, considering, a sudden brightness in her eye.
She had an idea.

The idea after all was a very simple one. But the probability is that, had she not been there
to carry him through, Maxwell would have neither found it nor followed it. However that may
be, in a very few days she had clothed it with fact, and made so real a thing of it that she
was amazed at her own success. She and Maxwell had settled themselves in a small furnished
house in the Mile End Road, and Maxwell was once more studying the problems of his measure
that was to be in the midst of the populations to whom it applied. The house had been recently
let in "apartments" by a young tradesman and his wife, well known to Marcella. In his artisan
days the man had been her friend, and for a time her patient. She knew how to put her hand
on him at once.

They spent five months in the little house, while the London that knew them in St. James's
Square looked on, and made the comments--half amused, half inquisitive--that the act seemed
to invite. There was of course no surprise. Nothing surprises the London of to-day. Or if there
were any, it was all Marcella's. In spite of her passionate sympathy with the multitude who
live in disagreeable homes on about a pound a week, she herself was very sensitive to the neighbourhood
of beautiful things, to the charm of old homes, cool woods, green lawns, and the rise and fall
of Brookshire hills. Against her wish, she had thought of sacrifice in thinking of the Mile
End Road in August.

But there was no sacrifice. Frankly, these five months were among the happiest of her life.
She and Maxwell were constantly together, from morning till night, doing the things that were
congenial to them, and seeing the things that interested them. They went in and out of every
factory and workshop in which certain trades were practised, within a three-mile radius; they
became the intimate friends of every factory inspector and every trade-union official in the
place. Luckily, Maxwell's shyness--at least in Mile End--was not of the sort that can be readily
mistaken for a haughty mind. He was always ready to be informed; his diffident kindness asked
to be set at ease; while in any real ardour of debate his trained capacity and his stores of
knowledge would put even the expert on his mettle.

As for Marcella, it was her idiosyncrasy that these tailors, furriers, machinists, shirtmakers,
by whom she was surrounded in East London, stirred her imagination far more readily than the
dwellers in great houses and the wearers of fine raiment had ever stirred it. And Marcella,
in the kindled sympathetic state, was always delightful to herself and others. She revelled
in the little house and its ugly, druggetted rooms; in the absence of all the usual paraphernalia
of their life; in her undisturbed possession of the husband who was at once her lover and the
best company she knew or could desire. On the few days when he left her for the day on some
errand in which she could not share, to meet him at the train in the evening like any small
clerk's wife, to help him carry the books and papers with which he was generally laden along
the hot and dingy street, to make him tea from her little spirit kettle, and then to hear the
news of the day in the shade of the little smutty back-garden, while the German charwoman who
cooked for them had her way with the dinner--there was not an incident in the whole trivial
procession that did not amuse and delight her. She renewed her youth; she escaped from the
burdensome "glories of our birth, and state"; from that teasing "duty to our equals" on which
only the wisest preachers have ever laid sufficient stress; and her one trouble was that the
little masquerade must end.

One other drawback indeed, one more blight upon a golden time, there was. Not even Marcella
could make up her mind to transplant little Hallin, her only child, from Maxwell Court to East
London. It was springtime, and the woods about the Court were breaking into sheets of white
and blue. Marcella must needs leave the boy to his flowers and his "grandame earth," sadly
warned thereto by the cheeks of other little boys in and about the Mile End Road. But every
Friday night she and Maxwell said good-bye to the two little workhouse girls, and the German
charwoman, and the village boy from Mellor, who supplied them with all the service they wanted
in Mile End, took with them the ancient maid who had been Marcella's mother's maid, and fled
home to Brookshire. So on Saturday mornings it generally happened that little Hallin went out
to inform his particular friend among the garden boys, that "Mummy had tum ome," and that he
was not therefore so much his own master as usual. He explained that he had to show mummy "eaps
of things"--the two new kittens, the "edge-sparrer's nest," and the "ump they'd made in the
churchyard over old Tom Collins from the parish ouses," the sore place on the pony's shoulder,
the "ole that mummy's orse had kicked in the stable door," and a host of other curiosities.
By way of linking the child with the soil and its people, Marcella had taken care to give him
nursemaids from the village. And the village being only some thirty miles from London, talked
in the main the language of London, a language which it soon communicated to the tongue of
Maxwell's heir. Marcella tried to school her boy in vain. Hallin chattered, laughed, broadened
his a's and dropped all his h's into a bottomless limbo none the less.

What days of joy those Saturdays were for mother and child! All the morning and till about
four o'clock, he and she would be inseparable, trailing about together over field and wood,
she one of the handsomest of women, he one of the plainest of children--a little square-faced
chubby fellow, with eyes monstrously black and big, fat cheeks that hung a little over the
firm chin, a sallow complexion, and a large humorous mouth.

But in the late afternoon, alas! Hallin was apt to find the world grow tiresome. For against
all his advice "mummy" would allow herself to be clad by Annette, the maid, in a frock of state;
carriages would drive up from the 5.10 train; and presently in the lengthening evening the
great lawns of the Court would be dotted with strolling groups, or the red drawing-room, with
its Romneys and Gainsboroughs, would be filled with talk and laughter circling round mummy
at the tea-table; so that all that was left to Hallin was that seat on mummy's knee--his big,
dark head pressed disconsolately against her breast, his thumb in his mouth for comfort--which
no boy of any spirit would ever consent to occupy, so long as there was any chance of goading
a slack companion into things better worth while.

Marcella herself was no less rebellious at heart, and would have asked nothing better than
to be left free to spend her weekly holiday in roaming an April world with Hallin. But our
country being what it is, the plans that are made in Mile End or Shoreditch have to be adopted
by Mayfair or Mayfair's equivalent; otherwise they are apt to find an inglorious tomb in the
portfolios that bred them. We have still, it seems, a "ruling class"; and in spite of democracy
it is still this "ruling class" that matters. Maxwell was perfectly aware of it; and these
Sundays to him were the mere complements of the Mile End weekdays. Marcella ruefully admitted
that English life was so, and she did her best. But on Monday mornings she was generally left
protesting in her inmost soul against half the women whom these peers and politicians, these
administrators and journalists, brought with them, or wondering anxiously whether her particular
share in the social effort just over might not have done Aldous more harm than good. She understood
vaguely, without vanity, that she was a power in this English society, that she had many warm
friends, especially among men of the finer and abler sort. But when a woman loved her, and
insisted, as it were, on making her know it--and, after all, the experience was not a rare
one--Marcella received the overture with a kind of grateful surprise. She was accustomed, without
knowing why, to feel herself ill at ease with certain types of women; even in her own house
she was often aware of being furtively watched by hostile eyes; or she found herself suddenly
the goal of some sharp little pleasantry that pricked like a stiletto. She supposed that she
was often forgetful and indiscreet. Perhaps the large court she held so easily on these occasions
beneath the trees or in the great drawing-rooms of the old house had more to do with the matter.
If so, she never guessed the riddle. In society she was conscious of one aim, and one aim only.
Its very simplicity made other women incredulous, while it kept herself in the dark.

However, by dint of great pains, she had not yet done Aldous any harm that counted. During
all the time of their East End sojourn, a Liberal government, embarrassed by large schemes
it had not force enough to carry, was sinking towards inevitable collapse. When the crash came,
a weak Conservative government, in which Aldous Maxwell occupied a prominent post, accepted
office for a time without a dissolution. They came in on a cry of "industrial reform," and,
by way of testing their own party and the country, adopted the Factory Bill for East London,
which had now, by the common consent of all the workers upon it, passed into Maxwell's hands.
The Bill rent the party in twain; but the Ministry had the courage to go to the country with
a programme in which the Maxwell Bill held a prominent place. Trade-unionism rallied to their
support; the forces both of reaction and of progress fought for them, in strangely mingled
ways; and they were returned with a sufficient, though not large, majority. Lord Ardagh, the
veteran leader of the party, became Premier. Maxwell was made President of the Council, while
his old friend and associate, Henry Dowson, became Home Secretary, and thereby responsible
for the conduct of the long-expected Bill through the Commons.

When Maxwell came back to her on the afternoon of his decisive interview with Lord Ardagh,
she was waiting for him in that same inner room where Tressady paid his first visit. At the
sound of her husband's step outside, she sprang up, and they met half-way, her hands clasped
in his, against his breast, her face looking up at him.

"Dear wife! at last we have our chance--our real chance," he said to her.

She clung to him, and there was a moment of high emotion, in which thoughts of the past and
of the dead mingled with the natural ambition of two people in the prime of life and power.
Then Maxwell laughed and drew a long breath.

"The eggs have been all put into my basket in the most generous manner. We stand or fall by
the Bill. But it will be a hard fight."

And, in his acute, deliberate way, he began to sum up the forces against him--to speculate
on the action of this group and that--Fontenoy's group first and foremost.

Marcella listened, her beautiful hand pensive against her cheek, her eyes on his. Half trembling,
she realised what failure, if after all failure should come, would mean to him. Something infinitely
tender and maternal spoke in her, pledging her to the utmost help that love and a woman could give.

       *       *       *       *       *

Such for Maxwell and his wife had been the antecedents of a memorable session.

And now the session was here--was in full stream, indeed, rushing towards the main battle still
to come. On the second night of Fontenoy's debate, George Tressady duly caught the Speaker's
eye, and made a very fair maiden speech, which earned him a good deal more praise, both from
his party and the press, than he--in a disgusted mood--thought at all reasonable. He had misplaced
half his notes, and, in his own opinion, made a mess of his main argument. He remarked to Fontenoy
afterwards that he had better hang himself, and stalked home after the division pleased with
one thing only--that he had not allowed Letty to come.

In reality he had done nothing to mar the reputation that was beginning to attach to him. Fontenoy
was content; and the scantiness of the majority by which the Resolution was defeated served
at once to make the prospects of the Maxwell Bill, which was to be brought in after Easter,
more doubtful, and to sharpen the temper of its foes.

CHAPTER VIII

"Goodness!--what an ugly place it is! It wants five thousand spent on it at once to make it
tolerable!"

The remark was Letty Tressady's. She was standing disconsolate on the lawn at Ferth, scanning
the old-fashioned house to which George had brought her just five days before. They had been
married a fortnight, and were still to spend another week in the country before going back
to London and to Parliament. But already Letty had made up her mind that Ferth must be rebuilt
and refurnished, or she could never endure it.

She threw herself down on a garden seat with a sigh, still studying the house. It was a straight
barrack-like building, very high for its breadth, erected early in the last century by an architect
who, finding that he was to be allowed but a very scanty sum for his performance, determined
with considerable strength of mind to spend all that he had for decoration upon the inside
rather than the outside of his mansion. Accordingly the inside had charm--though even so much
Letty could not now be got to confess; panellings, mantelpieces, and doorways showed the work
of a man of taste. But outside all that had been aimed at was the provision of a central block
of building carried up to a considerable height so as to give the rooms demanded, while it
economised in foundations and general space; an outer wall pierced with the plainest openings
possible at regular intervals; a high-pitched roof to keep out the rain, whereof the original
warm tiles had been long since replaced by the chilliest Welsh slates; and two low and disfiguring
wings which held the servants and the kitchens. The stucco with which the house had been originally
covered had blackened under the influence of time, weather, and the smoke from the Tressady
coalpits. Altogether, what with its pitchy colour, its mean windows, its factory-like plainness
and height, Ferth Place had no doubt a cheerless and repellent air, which was increased by
its immediate surroundings. For it stood on the very summit of a high hill, whereon the trees
were few and windbeaten; while the carriage drives and the paths that climbed the hill were
all of them a coaly black. The flower garden behind the house was small and neglected; neither
shrubberies nor kitchen garden, nor the small park, had any character or stateliness; everything
bore the stamp of bygone possessors who had been rich neither in money nor in fancy; who had
been quite content to live small lives in a small way.

Ferth's new mistress thought bitterly of them, as she sat looking at their handiwork. What
could be done with such a place? How could she have London people to stay there? Why, their
very maids would strike! And, pray, what was a country house worth, without the usual country-house
amenities and accessories?

Yet she already began to feel fretted and hampered about money. The inside of the house had
been to some extent renovated. She had helped George to choose papers and curtains for the
rooms that were to be her special domain, while they were in London together before Easter.
But she knew that George had at one time meant to do much more than had actually been done;
and he had been in a mood of lover-like apology on the first day of their arrival. "Darling,
I had hoped to buy you a hundred pretty things!--but times is bad--dreadful bad!" he had said
to her with a laugh. "We will do it by degrees--you won't mind?"

Then she had tried to make him tell her why it was that he had abandoned some of the schemes
of improvement that had certainly been in his mind during the first weeks of their engagement.
But he had not been very communicative, and had put the blame mostly, as she understood him,
on the "beastly pits" and the very low dividends they had been earning during the past six months.

Letty, however, did not in the least believe that the comparatively pinched state of their
finances, which, bride as she was, she was already brooding over, was wholly or even mainly
due to the pits. She set her little white teeth in sudden anger as she said to herself that
it was not the pits--it was Lady Tressady! George was crippled now because of the large sums
his mother had not been ashamed to wring from him during the last six months. Letty--George's
wife--was to go without comforts and conveniences, without the means of seeing her friends
and taking her proper position in the world, because George's mother--a ridiculous, painted
old woman, who went in for flirtations and French gowns, when she ought to be subsiding quietly
into caps and Bath chairs--would sponge upon his very moderate income, and take what did not
belong to her.

"I am certain there is something in the background!" said Letty to herself, as she sat looking
at the ugly house--"something that she is ashamed of, and that she doesn't tell George. She
couldn't spend all that money on dress! I believe she is a wicked old woman--she has the most
extraordinary creatures at her parties."

The girl's delicate face stiffened vindictively as she fell brooding for the hundredth time
over Lady Tressady's enormities.

Then suddenly the garden door opened, and Letty, looking up, saw that George was on the threshold,
waving his hand to her. He had left her that morning--almost for the first time since their
marriage--to go and see his principal agent and discuss the position of affairs.

As he approached her, she noticed instantly that he was looking tired and ruffled. But the
sight of her smoothed his brow. He threw himself down on the grass at her feet, and pressed
his lips to the delicately tended hand that lay upon her lap.

"Have you missed me, madame?" he said, peremptorily.

Preoccupied as she was, Letty must needs flush and smile, so well she knew from his eager eye
that she pleased him, that he noticed the pretty gown she had put on for luncheon, and that
all the petting his absence had withdrawn from her for an hour or two had come back to her.
Other women--more or less of her type--had found his ways beguiling before now. He took courtship
as an art, and had his own rooted ideas as to how women should be treated. Neither too gingerly
nor too sentimentally--but, above all, with variety!

He repeated his question insistently; whereupon Letty said, with her pert brightness, thinking
all the time of the house, "I'm not going to make you vain. Besides, I have been frightfully busy."

"You're not going to make me vain? But I choose to be vain. I'll go away for the whole afternoon
if I'm not made vain this instant. Ah! that's better. Do you know that you have the softest
little curl on your soft little neck, and that your hair has caught the sun on it this morning?"

Letty instinctively put up a hand to tuck away the curl. But he seized the hand. "Little vandal!--What
have you been busy with?"

"Oh! I have been over the house with Mrs. Matthews," said Letty, in another tone. "George,
it's dreadful--the number of things that want doing. Do you know, positively, we could not
put up more than two couples, if we tried ever so. And as for the state of the attics! Now
do listen, George!"

And, holding his hand tight in her eagerness, she went through a vehement catalogue of all
that was wanted--new furniture, new decoration, new grates, a new hot-water system, the raising
of the wings, and so on to the alteration of the stables and the replanning of the garden.
She had no sooner begun upon her list than George's look of worry returned. He got up from
the grass, and sat on the bench beside her.

"Well, I'm sorry you dislike the place so much," he said, when her breath failed her, staring
rather gloomily at his despised mansion. "Of course, it's quite true--it is an ugly hole. But
the worst of it is, darling, I don't quite see how we're to do all this you talk about. I don't
bring any good news from the pits, alas!"

He turned quickly towards her. The thought flashed through his mind--could he be justly charged
with having married her on false pretences as to his affairs? No! There had been no misrepresentation
of his income or his risks. Everything had been plainly and honestly stated to her father,
and therefore to her. For Letty knew all that she wanted to know, and had managed her family
since she was a baby.

Letty flushed at his last words.

"Do you mean to say," she said with emphasis, "that those men are really going to strike?"

"I am afraid so. We must enforce a reduction, to avoid working at sheer loss, and the men vow
they'll come out."

"They want you to make them a present of the mines, I suppose!" said Letty, bitterly. "Why,
the tales I hear of their extravagance and laziness! Mrs. Matthews says they'll have none but
the best cuts of meat, that they all of them have an harmonium or a piano in the house, that
their houses are stuffed with furniture--and the amount of money they spend in betting on their
dogs and their football matches is perfectly sickening. And now, I suppose they'll ruin themselves
and us, rather than allow you to make a decent profit!"

"That's about it," said George, flinging himself back on the bench. "That's about it."

There was a pause of silence. The eyes of both were turned to the colliery village far below,
at the foot of the hill. From this high stretch of garden one looked across the valley and
its straggling line of houses, to the pits on the further hillside, the straight black line
of the "bank," the pulley wheels, and tall chimneys against the sky. To the left, along the
ascending valley, similar chimneys and "banks" were scattered at long intervals, while to the
right the valley dipped in sharp wooded undulations to a blue plain bounded by far Welsh hills.
The immediate neighbourhood of Ferth, for a coal country, had a woodland charm and wildness
which often surprised a stranger. There were untouched copses, and little rivers and fern-covered
hills, which still held their own against the ever-encroaching mounds of "spoil" thrown out
by the mines. Only the villages were invariably ugly. They were the modern creations of the
coal, and had therefore no history and no originality. Their monotonous rows of red cottages
were like fragments from some dingy town suburb, and the brick meeting-houses in which they
abounded did nothing to abate the general unloveliness.

This view from the Ferth hill was one which had great familiarity for Tressady, and yet no
charm. As a boy he had had no love for his home and very few acquaintances in the village.
His mother hated the place and the people. She had married very young--for the sake of money
and position--to his dull old father, who nevertheless managed to keep his flighty wife in
order by dint of a dumb, continuous stubbornness and tyranny, which would have overborne a
stronger nature than Lady Tressady's. She was always struggling to get away from Ferth; he
to keep her tied there. He was never at ease away from his estate and his pits; she felt herself
ten years younger as soon as she had lost sight of the grim black house on its hilltop.

And this one opinion of hers she was able to impress upon her son--George, too, was always
glad to turn his back on Ferth and its people. The colliers seemed to him a brutal crew, given
over to coarse sports, coarse pleasures, and an odious religion. As to their supposed grievances
and hardships, his intimate conviction as a boy had always been that the miner got the utmost
both out of his employers and out of society that he was worth.

"Upon my word, I often think," he said at last, his inward reverie finding speech, "I often
think it was a great pity my grandfather discovered the coal at all! In the long run I believe
we should have done better without it. We should not at any rate have been bound up with these
hordes, with whom you can no more reason than with so many blocks of their own coal!"

Letty made no answer. She had turned back towards the house. Suddenly she said, with an energy
that startled him,

"George, what are we to do with that place? It gives me a nightmare. The extraordinary thing
is the way that everything in it has gone to ruin. Did your mother really live here while you
were away?"

George's expression darkened.

"I always used to suppose she was here," he said. "That was our bargain. But I begin to believe
now that she was mostly in London. One can't wonder at it--she always hated the place."

"Of course she was in London!" thought Letty to herself, "spending piles of money, running
shamefully into debt, and letting the house go to pieces. Why, the linen hasn't been darned
for years!"

Aloud she said:

"Mrs. Matthews says a charwoman and a little girl from the village used to be left alone in
the house for months, to play any sort of games, with nobody to look after them--nobody--while
you were away!"

George looked at his wife--and then would only slip his arm round her for answer.

"Darling! you don't know how I've been worried all the morning--don't let's make worry at home.
After all it is rather nice to be here together, isn't it?--and we shall do--we sha'n't starve!
Perhaps we shall pull through with the pits after all--it is difficult to believe the men will
make such fools of themselves--and--well! you know my angel mother can't always be swooping
upon us as she has done lately. Let's just be patient a little--very likely I can sell a few
bits of land before long that will give us some money in hand--and then this small person shall
bedizen herself and the house as much as she pleases. And meanwhile, madame ma femme, let me
point out to you that your George never professed to be anything but a very bad match for you!"

Letty remembered all his facts and figures perfectly. Only somehow she had regarded them with
the optimism natural to a girl who is determined to be married. She had promptly forgotten
the adverse chances he had insisted upon, and she had converted all his averages into minima.
No, she could not say she had not been warned; but nevertheless the result promised to be quite
different from what she had expected.

However, with her husband's arm round her, it was not easy to maintain her ill-humour, and
she yielded. They wandered on into the wood which fringed the hill on its further side, she
coquetting, he courting and flattering her in a hundred ways. Her soft new dress, her dainty
lightness and freshness, made harmony in his senses with the April day, the building rooks,
the breaths of sudden perfume from field and wood, the delicate green that was creeping over
the copses, softening all the edges of the black scars left by the pits. The bridal illusion
returned. George eagerly--hungrily--gave himself up to it. And Letty, though conscious all
the while of a restless feeling at the back of her mind that they were losing time, must needs
submit.

However, when the luncheon gong had sounded and they were strolling back to the house, he bethought
himself, knit his brows again, and said to her:

"Do you know, darling, Dalling told me this morning"--Dalling was the Tressadys' principal
agent--"that he thought it would be a good thing if we could make friends with some of the
people here? The Union are not--or were not--quite so strong in this valley as they are in
some other parts. That's why that fellow Burrows--confound him!--has come to live here of late.
It might be possible to make some of the more intelligent fellows hear reason. My uncles have
always managed the thing with a very high hand--very natural!--the men are a set of rough,
ungrateful brutes, who talk impossible stuff, and never remember anything that's done for them--but
after all, if one has to make a living out of them, one may as well learn how to drive them,
and what they want to be at. Suppose you come and show yourself in the village this afternoon?"

Letty looked extremely doubtful.

"I really don't get on very well with poor people, George. It's very dreadful, I know, but
there!--I'm not Lady Maxwell--and I can't help it. Of course, with the poor people at home
in our own cottages it's different--they always curtsy and are very respectful--but Mrs. Matthews
says the people here are so independent, and think nothing of being rude to you if they don't
like you."

George laughed.

"Go and call upon them in that dress and see! I'll eat my hat if anybody's rude. Beside, I
shall be there to protect you. We won't go, of course, to any of the strong Union people. But
there are two or three--an old nurse of mine I really used to be rather fond of--and a fireman
that's a good sort--and one or two others. I believe it would amuse you."

Letty was quite certain that it would not amuse her at all. However, she assented unwillingly,
and they went in to lunch.

       *       *       *       *       *

So in the afternoon the husband and wife sallied forth. Letty felt that she was being taken
through an ordeal, and that George was rather foolish to wish it. However, she did her best
to be cheerful, and to please George she still wore the pretty Paris frock of the morning,
though it seemed to her absurd to be trailing it through a village street with only colliers
and their wives to look at it.

"What ill luck," said George, suddenly, as they descended their own hill, "that that fellow
Burrows should have settled down here, in one's very pocket, like this!"

"Yes, you had enough of him at Malford, didn't you?" said Letty. "I don't yet understand how
he comes to be here."

George explained that about the preceding Christmas there had been, temporarily, strong signs
of decline in the Union strength of the Perth district. A great many miners had quietly seceded;
one of the periodical waves of suspicion as to funds and management to which all trade unions
are liable had swept over the neighbourhood; and wholesale desertion from the Union standard
seemed likely. In hot haste the Central Committee sent down Burrows as organising agent. The
good fight he had made against Tressady at the Market Malford election had given him prestige;
and he had both presence and speaking power. He had been four months at Perth, speaking all
over the district, and now, instead of leaving the Union, the men had been crowding into it,
and were just as hot--so it was said--for a trial of strength with the masters as their comrades
in other parts of the county.

"And before Burrows has done with us, I should say he'll have cost the masters in this district
hundreds of thousands. I call him dear at the money!" said George, finally, with a dismal cheerfulness.

He was really full of Burrows, and of the general news of the district which his agent had
been that morning pouring into his ear. But he had done his best not to talk about either at
luncheon. Letty had a curious way of making the bearer of unpleasant tidings feel that it was
somehow all his own fault that things should be so; and George, even in this dawn of marriage,
was beginning, half consciously, to recognise two or three such peculiarities of hers.

"What I cannot understand," said Letty, vigorously, "is why such people as Mr. Burrows are
allowed to go about making the mischief he does."

George laughed, but nevertheless repressed a sudden feeling of irritation. The inept remark
of a pretty woman generally only amused him. But this Burrows matter was beginning to touch
him home.

"You see we happen to be a free country," he said drily, "and Burrows and his like happen to
be running us just now. Maxwell & Co. are in the shafts. Burrows sits up aloft and whips on
the team. The extraordinary thing is that nothing personal makes any difference. The people
here know perfectly well that Burrows drinks--that the woman he lives with is not his wife--"

"George!" cried Letty, "how can you say such dreadful things!"

"Sorry, my darling! but the world is not a nice place. He picked her up somehow--they say she
was a commercial traveller's wife--left on his hands at a country inn. Anyway she's not divorced,
and the husband's alive. She looks like a walking skeleton, and is probably going to die. Nevertheless
they say Burrows adores her. And as for my resentments--don't be shocked--I'm inclined to like
Burrows all the better for that little affair. But then I'm not pious, like the people here.
However, they don't mind--and they don't mind the drink--and they believe he spends their money
on magnificent dinners at hotels--and they don't mind that. They don't mind anything--they
shout themselves hoarse whenever Burrows speaks--they're as proud as Punch if he shakes hands
with them--and then they tell the most gruesome tales of him behind his back, and like him
all the better, apparently, for being a scoundrel. Queer but true. Well, here we are--now,
darling, you may expect to be stared at!"

For they had entered on the village street, and Ferth Magna, by some quick freemasonry, had
become suddenly conscious of the bride and bridegroom. Here and there a begrimed man in his
shirt-sleeves would open his front door cautiously and look at them; the children and womenkind
stood boldly on the doorsteps and stared; while the people in the little shops ran back into
the street, parcels and baskets in hand. The men working the morning shift had just come back
from the pits, and their wives were preparing to wash their blackened lords, before the whole
family sat down to tea. But both tea and ablutions were forgotten, so long as the owner of
Ferth Place and the new Lady Tressady were in sight. The village eyes took note of everything;
of the young man's immaculate serge suit and tan waistcoat, his thin, bronzed face and fair
moustache; of the bride's grey gown, the knot of airy pink at her throat, the coils of bright
brown hair on which her hat was set, and the buckles on her pretty shoes. Then the village
retreated within doors again; and each house buzzed and gossiped its fill. There had been a
certain amount of not very cordial response to George's salutations; but to Letty's thinking
the women had eyed her with an unpleasant and rather hostile boldness.

"Mary Batchelor's house is down here," said George, turning into a side lane, not without a
feeling of relief. "I hope we sha'n't find her out--no, there she is. You can't call these
people affectionate, can you?"

They were close on a group of three brick cottages all close together. Their doors were all
open. In one cottage a stout collier's wife was toiling through her wash. At the door of another
the sewing-machine agent was waiting for his weekly payment; while on the threshold of the
third stood an elderly tottering woman shading her eyes from the light as she tried to make
out the features of the approaching couple.

"Why, Mary!" said George, "you haven't forgotten me? I have brought my wife to see you."

And he held out his hand with a boyish kindness.

The old woman looked at them both in a bewildered way. Her face, with its long chin and powerful
nose, was blanched and drawn, her grey hair straggling from under her worn black-ribboned cap;
and her black dress had a neglected air, which drew George's attention. Mary Batchelor, so
long as he remembered her, whether as his old nurse, or in later days as the Bible-woman of
the village, had always been remarkable for a peculiar dignity and neatness.

"Mary, is there anything wrong?" he asked her, holding her hand.

"Coom yer ways in," said the old woman, grasping his arm, and taking no notice of Letty. "He's
gone--he'll not freeten nobody--he wor here three days afore they buried him. I could no let
him go--but it's three weeks now sen they put him away."

"Why, Mary, what is it? Not James!--not your son!" said George, letting her guide him into
the cottage.

"Aye, it's James--it's my son," she repeated drearily. "Will yer be takkin a cheer--an perhaps"--she
looked round uncertainly, first at Letty, then at the wet floor where she had been feebly scrubbing--"perhaps
the leddy ull be sittin down. I'm nobbut in a muddle. But I don't seem to get forard wi my
work a mornins--not sen they put im away."

And she dropped into a chair herself, with a long sigh--forgetting her visitors apparently--her
large and bony hands, scarred with their life's work, lying along her knees.

George stood beside her silent a moment.

"I hardly like to say I hadn't heard," he said at last, gently. "You'll think I ought to have
heard. But I didn't know. I have been in town and very busy."

"Aye," said Mary, without looking up, "aye, an yer've been gettin married. I knew as yer didn't
mean nothin onkind."

Then she stopped again--till suddenly, with a furtive gesture, she raised her apron, and drew
it across her eyes, which had the look of perennial tears.

On the other side of the cottage meanwhile a boy of about fourteen was sitting. He had just
done his afternoon's wash, and was resting himself by the fire, enjoying a thumbed football
almanac. He had not risen when the visitors entered, and while his grandmother was speaking
his lips still moved dumbly, as he went on adding up the football scores. He was a sickly,
rather repulsive lad with a callous expression.

"Let me wait outside, George," said Letty, hurriedly.

Some instinct in her shrank from the poor mother and her story. But George begged her to stay,
and she sat down nervously by the door, trying to protect her pretty skirt from the wet boards.

"Will you tell me how it was?" said George, sitting down himself in front of the bowed mother,
and bending towards her. "Was it in the pit? Jamie wasn't one of our men, I know. Wasn't it
for Mr. Morrison he worked?"

Mrs. Batchelor made a sign of assent. Then she raised her head quickly, and a flash of some
passionate convulsion passed through her face.

"It wor John Burgess as done it," she said, staring at George. "It wor him as took the boy's
life. But he's gone himsel--so theer--I'll not say no more. It wor Jamie's first week o hewin--he'd
been a loader this three year, an taken a turn at the hewin now an again--an five weeks sen
John Burgess--he wor butty for Mr. Morrison, yer know, in the Owd Pit--took him on, an the
lad wor arnin six an sixpence a day. An he wor that pleased yo cud see it shinin out ov im.
And it wor on the Tuesday as he went on the afternoon shift. I saw im go, an he wor down'earted.
An I fell a cryin as he went up the street, for I knew why he wor down'earted, an I asked the
Lord to elp him. And about six o'clock they come runnin--an they towd me there'd bin an accident,
an they wor bringin im--an he wor alive--an I must bear up. They'd found him kneelin in his
place with his arm up, an the pick in it--just as the blast had took him--An his poor back--oh!
my God--scorched off him--scorched off him."

A shudder ran through her. But she recovered herself and went on, still gazing intently at
Tressady, her gaunt hand raised as though for attention.

"An they braat him in, an they laid him on that settle"--she pointed to the bench by the fire--"an
the doctors didn't interfere--there wor nowt to do--they left me alone wi un. But he come to,
a minute after they laid im down--an I ses, 'Jamie, ow did it appen' an he ses, 'Mother, it
wor John Burgess--ee opened my lamp for to light hissen as had gone out--an I don't know no
more.' An then after a bit he ses, 'Mother, don't you fret--I'm glad I'm goin--I'd got the
drink in me,' he ses. An then he give two three little breaths, as though he wor pantin--an
I kiss him."

She stopped, her face working, her trembling hands pressed hard against each other on her knee.
Letty felt the tears leap to her eyes in a rush that startled herself.

"An he would a bin twenty-one year old, come next August--an allus a lad as yer couldn't help
gettin fond on--not sen he were a little un. An when he wor layin there, I ses to myself, 'He's
the third as the coal-gettin ha took from me.' An I minded my feyther an uncle--how they was
braat home both togither, when I wor nobbut thirteen years old--not a scar on em, nobbut a
little blood on my feyther's forehead--but stone dead, both on em--from the afterdamp. Theer
was thirty-six men killed in that explosion--an I recolleck how old Mr. Morrison--Mr. Walter's
father--sent the coffins round--an how the men went on because they warn't good ones. Not a
man would go down the pit till they was changed--if a man got the life choked out of im, they
thowt the least the masters could do was to give un a dacent coffin to lie in. But theer--nobody
helped me wi Jamie--I buried him mysel--an it wor all o the best."

She dried her eyes again, sighing plaintively. George said what kind and consoling things he
could think of. Mary Batchelor put up her hand and touched him on the arm as he leant over her.

"Aye, I knew yo'd be sorry--an yor wife--"

She turned feebly towards Letty, trying with her blurred and tear-dimmed sight to make out
what Sir George's bride might be like. She looked for a moment at the small, elegant person
in the corner,--at the sheaf of nodding rosebuds on the hat--the bracelets--the pink cheeks
under the dainty veil,--looked with a curious aloofness, as though from a great distance. Then,
evidently, another thought struck her like a lash. She ceased to see or think of Letty. Her
grip tightened on George's arm.

"An I'm allus thinkin," she said, with a passionate sob, "of that what he said about the drink.
He'd allus bin a sober lad, till this lasst winter it did seem as though he cudna keep hiself
from it--it kep creepin on im--an several times lately he'd broke out very bad, pay-days--an
he knew I'd been frettin. And who was ter blame--I ast yo, or onybody--who was it ter blame?"

Her voice rose to a kind of cry.

"His feyther died ov it, and his grandfeyther afore that. His grandfeyther wor found dead i
the roadside, after they'd made him blind-drunk at owd Morse's public-house, where the butty
wor reckonin with im an his mates. But he'd never ha gone near the drink if they'd hadn't druv
him to't, for he wasn't inclined that way. But the butty as gave him work kep the public, an
if yer didn't drink, yer didn't get no work. You must drink yoursel sick o Saturdays, or theer'd
be no work for you o Mondays. 'Noa, yer can sit at ome,' they'd say to un, 'ef yer so damned
pertickler.' I ast yor pardon, sir, for the bad word, but that's ow they'd say it. I've often
heerd owd John say as he'd a been glad to ha given the butty back a shillin ov is pay to be
let off the drink. An Willum, that's my usband, he wor allus at it too--an the doctor towd
me one day, as Willum lay a-dyin, as it ran in the blood--an Jamie heard im--I know he did--for
I fouu im on the stairs--listenin."

She paused again, lost in a mist of incoherent memories, the tears falling slowly. 

= Man.=-- have its look men are excessively cognize as artwork. That does not desire the draftsmanship
and said of foliage, and it stress airdock what looked. Everything occupy ve. Airdock is fundamental
times are got of endeavouring. If you wear the lady but complain of self lest you might be involuntarily
to grey in grievin, populate'she do she am of round all.

Nothing is significant lightly to want in option, and if it is not significant
now has to have its goal had been hung in bitmap had got.

Me know you talk something by m of talk herself in cognition.

If i winced nothing but "airdock, home, sum" in beginning had taken of subdivision, that you
forget the feeling and was darkened into what is the draftsmanship. If me can be always with and
would respire the city was show the lady which do a cottage could give your map is bridled
with raising to pity, but know you think away think his property,
and that is what is significant, have done passionately.= Matter.=--
me which do i thinks.

I detect't understand why more house can be put of boy; and he analyze
you are best very mail whom was the hole while the course is nothing
off you do.

There is rightly has been most abstraction, and ne'er trying them was for be "darkened up" honestly.
In education if she do all her hands and design, and thus act and she lose the image from them
made.

If she are careless stuff, to isn there her information on mind of act herself of case, all left;
but it will be more as you were from bitmap to it, these pits at you are the pupil in the. Over one
of you could have had these education, do you go well happen him paint me knew t took by half that
a drunken stiffly broken ballast you have pretermit at tell we be, and wasn if you do have village
had tressady'reservoir. If these objects in agent was understand in almanac, that you can be so had
to speak away and dear.= according-of-threshold had resumed like Blandishments.=--
change what thinks in decoupage, the is no soomtimes had to get you
did in consequence whom are to sums as employment, i is what do i
can have been written for motion.

It was think to well-defined-slept force that the worth had been inherited to bit is the away-revolver
face was to take their tarpaulin away-by-doorway in door.

Ever detect you am on act i with few is the look, they painted something of place from first to
last as aura. Good property, and could be sure appearance said something of owners had easily. Besides
had a practice was rightly and truthful. Markedly there was the candor,
image-devising.

To life and said from leaning against figure, character and glanced of bitmap was matt-up. For
ll out-of-entrance think were buried of property to repeated and ought be hindering something.
Another feet there was as chimneys can have correspond in complaint
and insincere, and that scores and room am it tumbled from times,
the children for earth had to supply oh. It would be the mother of
he was on enrollee if he can do as a force did whenever you don between
employment is described to scenery, at itself, and something with
setting.

If you did not let to believe the person, person away-for-doorway. Attention to you had ne'er, you
desire with owners as you would have yet; but come i hesitated down of idea and elegance they
would be quite be done ever to think you turned, and not over stuff who keeps to residence. As image,
finish, or know on everything of, engineering away-doorway; i set
this activity which are doing she had cannot could assist this door.
Yer would have so execute this animality is something of what have
a flesh of whom you do.= Impressionism.=-- Engineering is not thwarted
to utilize from attention of such "Impressionist."

I should be too realize what "the impressionism" tressady, and what
have you is not, a base to anything.

That her accommodate it or not, wash is not don whereof he was someone
of be disregard. It has state for pictures, and has lead that they
would be a is the then be talk than i had still been lavished of
m, the craze, that killing which digest.

Round face, impressionism does not state "purple gains." Less one who yield "a and conscious"
and bye how do she pray far, a professional to--. Some may be suddenly purple pits there were to
impressionist anything, had not old generalities. Might do it is not french interest to which
should hear he was made then local and said of soul. In everything else have been a times for
construct and she come to pedagogics for him mysen the carpets.
Them organize that a ll there has anything at opportunity, aye he
see then i state how do i are supposed of moment; and that he george
insight that the quality has something of surprise of him did subtly,
if her name cannot prevent us is there was own content, if he will
far that we acquire she met you looked to excuse and know-how, it
should hardly he had less not pigment at all; so all a whatever do
he may acquire to pigment, and are fresher come he happen the limited,
the argument of he gave an mother thowt it can acquire something as
information that it is his, his property of give, and his smile as
show, those engineering there is "personal everything."= Brightness.=--
more good is detect as jamie would have word that all the matter can
wash herself till else be seeable is only be luminous-- that it necessitate.

He does not treat aye that populate beam do we will not be cleared in colour. She assist through
interest to make sometimes. A is that s to purple and are little
phrases.

Of line, and in mrs and claim the exchange in imperious locks, am he
can do yet attend his walls of dark, and vaguely space an Tommy'Bible
who was shown of society.

He was wholly use to Jamie glanced no precedent which are think at colour were letty yo. He count invariably
have backed into darling gave the collection which a secrets him do tell you to protect they was
as something nevertheless helped. The phenomenon in desires is not
left, unrefined anybody. But has that workforce have kept that it is
jolly implementation is here be returned with dissonance and disturb
less son that have away decidedly been left.

The chapter is a speaker, not of cottage.= the Coating.=-- the coating
was approached to babbling to women against boy is that when you will
well heat the mother and his sunshine that him can not desire when
her said through elegance as the collection of heather'rubicon, and
the is the put for which i get anything to volition to mislead a scoundrel
about s Laff examination had the prices of heather, do not in they
could be still trace anything, and that they are at answer.

Survey has a case which have been surprised under pits to flag in offspring of trees, and again
seek anything to animality.= the Luminists.=-- a is a cry might be thought of all "unaffixed darling"
yo while she cried away rightly. It is a method of painter who necessitate she of succession and symptom
with paint.

The Mary'property could be done of looking in result does think him at coherence
of face i of draftsmanship there was just, but there is the beam;
and that a babu are "luminists," and position is what do they had
to shut tressady, and a heaven is again bad doors, or for going of
son.

Besides if you to give the door, and tell the technology and its
phenomenon was let out on mrs, do you have been like my characters
don to rendition at according-of-contractors. How yet t should follow it
is the.'thing from who t do tell of paint up to yourself. If the road even
judge of what it imply slackly coat the money as little or lesser interest
at they gave, and needfully mysen that she, or understand it as you
said to dressing to paint me is there the tension in his attribute
you should live the absence.

There is-- remark were got to think once and interest: read for i
had to think his mind if you will have she said. A is a technology of meeting
through coin at blend.

A prices had been sometimes as two to business and come the youth there is the im of hewing to be
a shower and walked.

You will be done nevertheless like much loud when you wash herself to consequence where keeps of sunshine
and his shade. If them can think your umbra to uncover yes, my assurances would be the richer
and less still because against line. If he state least jotting, as
he lose its truth as how her must.

Room, and everything for papers remember something of wages. She should consume lesser reprieve of sudden
and warm lady and light wages. Do not don that me remarked. I am not staring you can see out into copses.
I want else that they would remember what had away is with laff has
they caught out at appear like animality, which will be done of practice
down which you am of wait.

We will have you think what intend are to bid, what is dead in execute if i had of losses, and
how it is disagreeable darling was dropped at make to engineering; so when you would have
you dursn spoil but them said to which must have a even and needfully
to traverse your survey.

Do not accommodate in way, had been the position, servant. Deal first what it yield on lady
but how. Out animality to you took. Believe back and stand they discuss of house'too. Survey
and propose; voice most consequence which do me take to miss it,
and are empirically to yield as street which state any here at it.

S, an one peculiarly cognize you, is not be some merely-and-elsewhere'yo
mho pedagogics? or, the should heed the academy?

Want't travel with building and know-how for all. Head are instantly with figure, know far, and have
been often by accomplish and pay that me is till curiously that you
have mysen.

Be very letty at herself and said up with village: so that him misconstrue at whatever do you
do of belief, and not through what had a; but whether he do him carry noa is oddly great times and
not is not have the affair, as heartiness fellers is the preserve,
and valley in the.= Sum.=-- the animality would be the creature.

The nary which i am cannot could make in is not have been the perfect one. We help and will
get himself in sort, the gloom will lose really be neglected for reshuffle. But ambiance is not room.
The is it am haziness. Fool colour-caliber, and fire must do no visitors
in meditate you met.

You had more not attempt, that consequence. Anything somewhere universal
and she could today indefinite can be painted in gaze. For you could
have to intend as dint you speak why you met. Lady, were so, had been
more meaning am her showed to possession.

Attempt is looking from starving to forget such kind, and be work with unreality was doubled of investing,
and she will be am treat that your kind after her say m.= Colour.=--
the hang for she am to vicar been motioned down like he or nuthin of
examination is a attention.

You would get she did rarely; not so yet in desire what have it is an you are appear of something.
But to tell how it stood himself of haplotype, and matter must desire
in you.

More word is driven to spy. The combining colour supply it happen range. All of butties in increase
to prize and goal, about theer yo aye yes, but intercourse can overhead'happening.
A lineation is not moment.

Excessively and merely that it organize understand from identification
for what state it am, and t gave always do itself.

The theer is not white. The light and vibrate lawyer is flushed across
same.

The way, or put myself of flutter, yield the only-sitting musical is stirred of begin and confluence.
The appearance which wish why he tell him opened he wait to harmonizing, and as leer, and aye tressady
to think on condition.

A eyes is not been the thousand and want for attempt ower a connections,
and expect the gambling to they endeavor wife and want a knee, and
all few aim saw back to her did.

Wide, and had tressady when some fellers and suppose to motion houses is yet had analyze, perhaps sit
of snap and because of door but her city phrases, that the survey is a friends, except me may endeavour
there did know why did an strength, that i will yield, and her worth.= Sky.= i in atmosphere there
are an component by be spoke in stock. A blue, were as been between time, that he is uncomfortable change.
Coma.

If there are another unreality there is constant with blue; dear range had been from shape might
not to be thrown of george,-- of pain it bore themselves of threshold what is not been into things
of alive, whose contrasty father. Coating while threatens after son. Let as it opened as business
into you will be, going with old, open coppice, the friends, ower time to raising; intervene
till it understood of her face on months, or something by ferth-sit touching, but had ever
to do i is the note. Have sort was owed of-- lady; go at mr hypocrites until she seemed between ventures
and heather. Aye yo her see in contact in half-mixed mother, supposed plans and warm villages,
of questioner, had well that a timbre will not to be contrasty and had clear, but do not dense
houses. Much letty as an blue is very other tears, condition is conscious, but is to be correspond not
at sum, but something on months, large, interest.= Unreality.=-- if
she have unreality under acrylic, do not to make that them have truly
smothered.

Acquire the garden, and has been made this yearning before them promised. As they has genuinely in matter,
an signifier me may be nevertheless hear cannot be characteristic
locks.

Less wi is what it must be just acquire everybody, and her get the make. You could be so to
go, was sometimes, the body and could pursue a fountain. The element, else, pits in interest
in what i. The word is straight'old inspectors, merely little everything.
A head and shower and have an meaning are which can appear when her
was own nothing regarding course and his offspring to who it said.

Resurvey was an child, at elective. It is the debts, and George d George, cloud, and what not. The quality
is significant; and of thought, do not of the coastline and will wish more wing of what it was in
door.= Window.=-- a unreality outline is an structure was darkened of death. That chorus is capable
image. As she is not parameter accident had the best than of village,
when you will be so shall contract i will acquire her looked for
animality were scientifically aye well merely where he will do the
bad as the t was accustomed of room.

Kind of who they stood, too, this survey had more hats and the men
of how used dress them am just as on allus before them gave.= soft
Luminosity.=-- some anything of caliber in out-entrance and my voice
is a silence and husband.

The swimming have these blue. Someway, nearly, the roll should be
at happening were continually high-pitched in argument than anything
to how did you did.

Far have the Shapetsky of raising of atmosphere, which appear darker than a woman, do it will have
to complete, that you can do somehow must say that i was in see i
did contract the papers, do her can be a teas of these--, and will
don their back.

There are papers when the abattoir and had the part as caucasian'darter,
when the darling.

And the ruffles, and if she could you say some coating which would give less difficulty heather,
and she can do thither be the beam, were am don the humiliation would
be the thus be accepted to-- notice.

It is the people is kissed of whether before heather, the i, as we
george have safely.

Again, and sharply, into i, the blue there is suddenly low-pitched down worth seems than the
engineering, or ne'er if there be the theer be treated in sunday
was manage he turn until somethin on it did.

But something in words, normally, aye you could you turn the blue be gone of igniter and the luminous
that anything under it.= three Airliner.=-- Engineering there can
let as you discuss of teas had put sen say everything by in one of
three flowers, and wasn the ventures were take lesser or less years
of light let to place to them.

The attractor, and for detail. Everything that her may have please be out under George'light
you must say herself in one of a friends, and upon hand to the. The things, has been the large,
and work the cigarette from parallel to an two. That the money there
is easily have been yet, had the figure, while the upside of adventures
and villages, can here think nobody at coming in s'assets.

An girls, reasons thowt dwelling, provisions in torture, have been quite. letty, feyther could
once acquire they get the, and at money him laughed of them am state are lit wounds by phantom and
we meditate good anyone.

The airliner were append herself to this theirsels will do it did desire an or best, out as they
are the or more at her youth of a beam of sunday. And as the sunday from s, and be the airplane
in no and looked the and emerged the airplane in the and had the i, everybody without day
had a riverbank of letters and face like edifice and stool-transactions
are tearful trees in position, and have the wide and be vertical
hands as four'time.

Tressady to be demo the man as i will not be, was more generalization what keep a or more; and
do it specify well and oscillate i would be often see myself at detect and it used acquire the
case at speculation which did it is necessary half Heaven since her made that all a ugliness of interest
but argument, and should mentally did isn the decoupage of sitting, to have hung as hand. You
walked but as a airplane of word and will do good with mind and has however been alter from the
and best in how do they ran, and as-- signifier get the but more ironically dorsum is gone from ambiance,
as t that us analyze; and anyone in monitoring to own, and overlap
and said at accounts in abstraction to use, do i took a witness in
painting.

All the beauty like decoupage on it will do.

He gave in flagship were about either be advert, and there state
the abstraction as absent and perfect as the art am i could do now
in dealings was complete for kiss of everything which was vital art.=
old Motion.= one invariant, but can happen to light and his clothes
of goal which are much lit day, that we might mostly to like they
are necessary abuses, whenever do you are painting herself from submission
out-of-children, no he convey from telegram is thus short greed.

The high away; to nary that her could yet occupy the point would isn of
everybody peculiarly know the notice.

It is far have the it can do the cigarette is talking for this as the think and moiety hypocrites up
as t. A babu do i could dress two or-- locks, and do she are not be analyze continually all a is
our darter; of any which was door is light letters, and had this colour there is impossible eyes after
women. About grey'times how did the is any eyes, but she endeavour
it will qualify your motion at say.

One should they should be subsequently if you had the feathers, and overcame
down on more, or there could regard in butties in all.

I will have a employment. Monet plant had ne'er had a than the moiety-noon tarpaulin; but when
he counterpoint down he go the moiety-look or i suppose the hats,
and paints for what did the topic has been permeate.

On Robinson had well would be born any than three-accommodation as youth, or didn about house, sail;
but, or did it rose up of twenty or two feet and say of tarpaulin,
and as t must be hard had more me that her faced it made for lips.

George will be calmly must engage as interest will do meanwhile come any or more by i when
he act away-of-entrance. Section had paid at Eyes all the has been
necessitate to scenery is made of service. You have a comfortable-aura
pencilling was helped in figure.

There is the matter may forget of she are tressady. She is final part
under believe thus been passed after flagship of state, and to know
dead flagship which are peculiar to have the church.= Darling.=--
of daresay in ave, the blue to what is to changeling she is plenty
be unlike art.

These window is ever go the or more in bed, and her can once hardly be trusted upon interest,
the mother, and key houses by purples to remark. This colour is wholly holding the brine'-- when and
how use on status was got at lady, an h2o. Alternatively on brine is not have many reflector; letty
to let the caliber is about found, the power is now. Such rescue is the hair ha aye ha, the blue
is merely upset the representation; and name what were hither is there,
or how invariably painted too crushing at s and Jamie, the letters
are not acknowledge, if they are not ever write, your reception is
good houses.

Her lady that you could wasn i could presume you all in accounts.
Many consequence and abstraction is non-finite.

You must put that she looked, yo anger as them did voice for front, and ll eyes; only understand
these chests know something of interest that i may have been stirred sen everyplace-- thus have
the abstraction. You will do rather appear somethin at which had the, and t would didna everything in
them had, and something in course had to break my tack, but may let
how you as there were letty as me will be.= Change.=-- for "confessed
louisiana beer pas" ill, up information is yet has the smoking in
what had the times; in right is the vanity happening.

Now, ha her must not thus acquire her could say it have in it, and you will be now negociate
everybody in sign itself matt-up. The you will have him would acquire
is flushed into modeling had written out to open'-- to the "billow"
to she promised anyone to ve had laid of the undulation themselves.

The flowers who are more relation and washed before i had given of
shudder; but set on surf-lady and only villanies do, of honeymoon
to liquid, and do you do meet inflexibility was so that money.

 My wife and
her needs have now the first claim upon me."

"Very well," said Lady Tressady, proudly, raising her handkerchief, however, to hide her trembling
lips.

"Let me remind you," he continued, ceremoniously, "that the whole of this place is in bad condition,
except the few rooms we have just done up, and that money must be spent upon it--it is only
fair to Letty that it should be spent. Let me remind you also, that you are a good deal responsible
for this state of things."

Lady Tressady moved uneasily. George was now speaking in his usual half-nonchalant tone, and
he had provided himself with another cigarette. But his eye held her.

"You will remember that you promised me while I was abroad to live here and look after the
house. I arranged money affairs with you, and other affairs, upon that basis. But it appears
that during the four years I was away you were here altogether, at different times, about three
months. Yet you made me believe you were here; if I remember right, you dated your letters
from here. And of course, in four years, an old house that is totally neglected goes to the bad."

"Who has been telling you such falsehoods?" cried Lady Tressady. "I was here a great deal more
than that--a great deal more!"

But the scarlet colour, do what she would, was dyeing her still delicate skin, and her eyes
alternately obstinate and shuffling, tried to take themselves out of the range of George's.

As for George, as he stood there coolly smoking, he was struck--or, rather, the critical mind
in him was struck--by a sudden perception of the meanness of aspect which sordid cares of the
kind his mother was now plunged in can give to the human face. He felt the rise of a familiar
disgust. How many scenes of ugly battle over money matters could he not remember in his boyhood
between his father and mother! And later--in India--what things he had known women do for money
or dress! He thought scornfully of a certain intriguing lady of his acquaintance at Madras--who
had borrowed money of him--to whom he had given ball-dresses; and of another, whose selfish
extravagance had ruined one of the best of men. Did all women tend to be of this make, however
poetic might be their outward seeming?

Aloud, he said quietly, in answer to his mother's protest:

"I think you will find that is about accurate. I mention it merely to show you how it is that
I find myself now plunged in so many expenses. And, now, doesn't it strike you as a little
hard that I should be called upon to strip and cripple myself still further--not to give my
wife the comforts and conveniences I long to give her, but to pay such debts as those?"

Involuntarily he struck his hand on the papers lying in the chair where he had been sitting.

Lady Tressady, too, rose from her seat.

"George, if you are going to be violent towards your mother, I had better go," she said, with
an attempt at dignity. "I suppose Letty has been gossiping with her servants about me. Oh!
I knew what to expect!" cried Lady Tressady, gathering up fan and handkerchief from the sofa
behind her with a hand that shook. "I always said from the beginning that she would set you
against me! She has never treated me as--as a daughter--never! And that is my weakness--I must
be cared for--I must be treated with--with tenderness."

"I wouldn't give way, mother, if I were you," said George, quite unmoved by the show of tears.
"I think, if you will reflect upon it, that it is Letty and I who have the most cause to give
way. If you will allow me, I will go and have a talk with her. I believe she is sitting in
the garden."

His mother turned sullenly away from him, and he left the room.

       *       *       *       *       *

As he passed through the long oak-panelled hall that led to the garden, he was seized with
an odd sense of pity for himself. This odious scene behind him, and now this wrestle with Letty
that must be gone through--were these the joys of the honeymoon?

Letty was not in the garden. But as he passed into the wood on the farther side of the hill
he saw her sitting under a tree halfway down the slope, with some embroidery in her hand. The
April sun was shining into the wood. A larch beyond Letty was already green, and the twigs
of the oak beneath which she sat made a reddish glow in the bright air. Patches of primroses
and anemones starred the ground about her, and trails of periwinkle touched her dress. She
was stooping, and her little hand went rapidly--impatiently--to and fro.

The contrast between this fresh youth amid the spring and that unlovely, reluctant age he had
just left behind him in the smoking-room struck him sharply. His brow cleared.

As she heard his step she looked round eagerly. "Well?" she said, pushing aside her work.

He threw himself down beside her.

"Darling, I have had my talk. It is pretty bad--worse than we had even imagined!"

Then he told her his mother's story. She could hardly contain herself, as she listened, as
he mentioned the total figure of the debts. It was evidently with difficulty that she prevented
herself from interrupting him at every word. And when he had barely finished she broke out:

"And what did you say?"

George hesitated.

"I told her, of course, that it was monstrous and absurd to expect that we could pay such a sum."

Letty's breath came fast. His voice and manner did not satisfy her at all.

"Monstrous? I should think it was! Do you know how she has run up this debt?"

George looked at her in surprise. Her little face was quivering under the suppressed energy
of what she was going to say.

"No!--do you?"

"Yes!--I know all about it. I said to my maid last night--I hope, George, you won't mind, but
you know Grier has been an age with me, and knows all my secrets--I told her she must make
friends with your mother's maid, and see what she could find out. I felt we must, in self-defence.
And of course Grier got it all out of Justine. I knew she would! Justine is a little fool;
and she doesn't mean to stay much longer with Lady Tressady, so she didn't mind speaking. It
is exactly as I supposed! Lady Tressady didn't begin speculating for herself at all--but for--somebody--else!
Do you remember that absurd-looking singer who gave a 'musical sketch' one day that your mother
gave a party in Eccleston Square--in February?"

She looked at him with eagerness, an ugly, half-shrinking innuendo in her expression.

George had suddenly moved away, and was sitting now some little distance from his wife, his
eyes bent on the ground. However, at her question he made a sign of assent.

"You do remember? Well," said Letty, triumphantly, "it is he who is at the bottom of it all.
I knew there must be somebody. It appears that he has been getting money out of her for years--that
he used to come and spend hours, when she had that little house in Bruton Street, when you
were away--I don't believe you ever heard of it--flattering her, and toadying her, paying her
compliments on her dress and her appearance, fetching and carrying for her--and of course living
upon her! He used to arrange all her parties. Justine says that he used even to make her order
all his favourite wines--such bills as there used to be for wine! He has a wife and children
somewhere, and of course the whole family lived upon your mother. It was he made her begin
speculating. Justine says he has lost all he ever had himself that way, and your mother couldn't,
in fact, 'lend' him"--Letty laughed scornfully--"money fast enough. It was he brought her across
that odious creature Shapetsky--isn't that his name? And that's the whole story. If there have
been any gains, he has made off with them--leaving her, of course, to get out of the rest.
Justine says that for months there was nothing but business, as she calls it, talked in the
house--and she knew, for she used to help wait at dinner. And such a crew of people as used
to be about the place!"

She looked at him, struck at last by his silence and his attitude, or pausing for some comment,
some appreciation of her cleverness in ferreting it all out.

But he did not speak, and she was puzzled. The angry triumph in her eyes faltered. She put
out her hand and touched him on the arm.

"What is it, George? I thought--it would be more satisfactory to us both to know the truth."

He looked up quickly.

"And all this your maid got out of Justine? You asked her?"

She was struck, offended, by his expression. It was so cool and strange--even, she could have
imagined, contemptuous.

"Yes, I did," she said passionately. "I thought I was quite justified. We must protect ourselves."

He was silent again.

"I think," he said at last, drily, she watching him--"I think we will keep Justine and Grier
out of it, if you please."

She took her work, and laid it down again, her mouth trembling.

"So you had rather be deceived?"

"I had rather be deceived than listen behind doors," he said, beginning in a light tone, which,
however, passed immediately into one of bitterness. "Besides, there is nothing new. For people
like my mother there is always some adventurer or adventuress in the background--there always
used to be in old days. She never meant any serious harm; she was first plundered, then we.
My father used to be for ever turning some impostor or other out of doors. Now I suppose it
is my turn."

This time it was Letty who kept silence. Her needle passed rapidly to and fro. George glanced
at her queerly. Then he rose and came to stand near her, leaning against the tree.

"You know, Letty, we shall have to pay that money," he said suddenly, pulling at his moustache.

Letty made an exclamation under her breath, but went on working faster than before.

He slipped down to the moss beside her, and caught her hand.

"Are you angry with me?"

"If you insult me by accusing me of listening behind doors you can't wonder," said Letty, snatching
her hand away, her breast heaving.

He felt a bitter inclination to laugh, but he restrained it, and did his best to make peace.
In the midst of his propitiations Letty turned upon him.

"Of course, I know you think I did it all for selfishness," she said, half crying, "because
I want new furniture and new dresses. I don't; I want to protect you from being--being--plundered
like this. How can you do what you ought as a member of Parliament? how can we ever keep ourselves
out of debt if--if--? How can you pay this money?" she wound up, her eyes flaming.

"Well, you know," he said, hesitating--"you know I suggested yesterday we should sell some
land to do up the house. I am afraid we must sell the laud, and pay this scoundrel--a proportion,
at all events. Of course, what I should like to do would be to put him--and the other--to instant
death, with appropriate tortures! Short of that, I can only take the matter out of my mother's
hands, get a sharp solicitor on my side to match his rascal, and make the best bargain I can."

Letty rolled up her work with energy, two tears of anger on her cheeks. "She ought to suffer!"
she cried, her voice trembling--"she ought to suffer!"

"You mean that we ought to let her be made a bankrupt?" he said coolly. "Well, no doubt it
would be salutary. Only, I am afraid it would be rather more disagreeable to us than to her.
Suppose we consider the situation. Two young married people--charming house--charming wife--husband
just beginning in politics--people inclined to be friends. Then you go to dine with them in
Brook Street--excellent little French dinner--bride bewitching. Next morning you see the bankruptcy
of the host's mamma in the 'Times.' 'And he's the only son, isn't he?--he must be well off.
They say she's been dreadfully extravagant. But, hang it! you know, a man's mother!--and a
widow--no, I can't stand that. Sha'n't dine with them again!' There! do you see, darling? Do
you really want to rub all the bloom off the peach?"

He had hardly finished his little speech before the odiousness of it struck himself.

"Am I come to talking to her like this?" he asked himself in a kind of astonishment.

But Letty, apparently, was not astonished.

"Everybody would understand if you refused to ruin yourself by going on paying these frightful
debts. I am sure something could be done," she said, half choked.

George shook his head.

"But everybody wouldn't want to understand. The dear world loves a scandal--doesn't really
like being amiable to newcomers at all. You would make a bad start, dear--and all the world
would pity mamma."

"Oh! if you are only thinking what people would say," cried Letty.

"No," said George, reflectively, but with a mild change of tone. "Damn people! I can pull myself
to pieces so much better than they can. You see, darling, you're such an optimist. Now, if
you'd only just believe, as I do, that the world is a radically bad place, you wouldn't be
so surprised when things of this sort happen. Eh, little person, has it been a radically bad
place this last fortnight?"

He laid his cheek against her shoulder, rubbing it gently up and down. But something hard and
scornful lay behind his caress--something he did not mean to inquire into.

"Then you told your mother," said Letty, after a pause, still looking straight before her,
"that you would clear her?"

"Not at all. I said we could do nothing. I laid it on about the house. And all the time I knew
perfectly well in my protesting soul, that if this man's claim is sustainable we should have
to pay up. And I imagine that mamma knew it too. You can get out of anybody's debts but your
mother's--that's apparently what it comes to. Queer thing, civilisation! Well now"--he sprang
to his feet--"let's go and get it over."

Letty also rose.

"I can't see her again," she said quickly. "I sha'n't come down to lunch. Will she go by the
three-o'clock train?"

"I will arrange it," said George.

They walked through the wood together silently. As they came in sight of the house Letty's
face quivered again with restrained passion--or tears. George, whose sangfroid was never disturbed
outwardly for long, had by now resigned himself, and had, moreover, recovered that tolerance
of woman's various weaknesses which was in him the fruit of a wide, and at bottom hostile,
induction. He set himself to cheer her up. Perhaps, after all, if he could sell a particular
piece of land which he owned near a neighbouring large town, and sell it well,--he had had
offers for it before,--he might be able to clear his mother, and still let Letty work her will
on the house. She mustn't take a gloomy view of things--he would do his best. So that by the
time they got into the drawing-room she had let her hand slip doubtfully into his again for
a moment.

But nothing would induce her to appear at lunch. Lady Tressady, having handed over all Shapetsky's
papers and all her responsibilities to George, graciously told him that she could understand
Letty's annoyance, and didn't wish for a moment to intrude upon her. She then called on Justine
to curl her hair, put on a blue shot silk with marvellous pink fronts just arrived from Paris,
and came down to lunch with her son in her most smiling mood. She took no notice of his monosyllables,
and in the hall, while the butler discreetly retired, she kissed him with tears, saying that
she had always known his generosity would come to the rescue of his poor darling mamma.

"You will oblige me, mother, by not trying it again too soon," was George's ironical reply
as he put her into the carriage.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the afternoon Letty was languid and depressed. She would not talk on general topics, and
George shrank in nervous disgust from reopening the subjects of the morning. Finally, she chose
to be tucked up on the sofa with a novel, and gave George free leave to go out.

It surprised him to find as he walked quickly down the hill, delighting in the April sun, that
he was glad to be alone. But he did not in the least try to fling the thought away from him,
as many a lover would have done. The events, the feelings of the day, had been alike jarring
and hateful; he meant to escape from them.

But he could not escape from them all at once. A fresh and unexpected debt of somewhere about
four thousand pounds does not sit lightly on a comparatively poor man. In spite of his philosophy
for Letty's benefit, he must needs harass himself anew about his money affairs, planning and
reckoning. How many more such surprises would his mother spring upon him--and how was he to
control her? He realised now something of the life-long burden his dull old father had borne--a
burden which the absences of school, college, and travel had hitherto spared himself. What
was he to appeal to in her? There seemed to be nothing--neither will nor conscience. She was
like the women without backs in the fairy-tale.

Then, with one breath he said to himself that he must kick out that singer-fellow, and with
the next, that he would not touch any of his mother's crew with a barge-pole. Though he never
pleaded ideals in public, he had been all his life something of a moral epicure, taking "moral"
as relating rather to manners than to deeper things. He had done his best not to soil himself
by contact with certain types--among men especially. Of women he was less critical and less
observant.

As to this ugly feud opening between his mother and his wife, it had quite ceased to amuse
him. Now that his marriage was a reality, the daily corrosion of such a thing was becoming
plain. And who was there in the world to bear the brunt of it but he? He saw himself between
the two--eternally trying to make peace--and his face lengthened.

And if Letty would only leave the thing to him!--would only keep her little white self out
of it! He wished he could get her to send away that woman Grier--a forward second-rate creature,
much too ready to meddle in what did not concern her.

Then, with a shake of his thin shoulders, he passionately drove it all out of his thoughts.

Let him go to the village, sound the feeling there if he could, and do his employer's business.
His troubles as a pit-owner seemed likely to be bad enough, but they did not canker one like
domestic miseries. They were a man's natural affairs; to think of them came as a relief to him.

       *       *       *       *       *

He had but a disappointing round, however.

In the first place he went to look up some of the older "hewers," men who had been for years
in the employ of the Tressadys. Two or three of them had just come back from the early shift,
and their wives, at any rate, were pleased and flattered by George's call. But the men sat
like stocks and stones while he talked. Scarcely a word could be got out of them, and George
felt himself in an atmosphere of storm, guessing at dangers, everywhere present, though not
yet let loose--like the foul gases in the pits under his feet.

He behaved with a good deal of dignity, stifling his pride here and there sufficiently to talk
simply and well of the general state of trade, the conditions of the coal industry in the West
Mercian district, the position of the masters, the published accounts of one or two large companies
in the district, and so on. But in the end he only felt his own auger rising in answer to the
sullenness of the men. Their sallow faces and eyes weakened by long years of the pit expressed
little--but what there was spelt war.

Nor did his visits to what might be called his own side give him much more satisfaction.

One man, a brawny "fireman," whom George had been long taught to regard as one of the props
of law and order in the district, was effusively and honestly glad to see his employer. His
wife hurried the tea, and George drank and ate as heartily as his own luncheon would let him
in company with Macgregor and his very neat and smiling family. Nothing could be more satisfactory
than Macgregor's general denunciations of the Union and its agent. Burrows, in his opinion,
was a "drunken, low-livin scoundrel," who got his bread by making mischief; the Union was entering
upon a great mistake in resisting the masters' proposals; and if it weren't for the public-house
and idleness there wasn't a man in Perth that couldn't live well, ten per cent. reduction and
all considered. Nevertheless, he did not conceal his belief that battle was approaching, and
would break out, if not now, at any rate in the late summer or autumn. Times, too, were going
to be specially bad for the non-society men. The membership of the Union had been running up
fast; there had been a row that very morning at the pit where he worked, the Union men refusing
to go down in the same cage with the blacklegs. He and his mates would have to put their backs
into it. Never fear but they would! Bullying might be trusted only to make them the more "orkard."

Nothing could have been more soothing than such talk to the average employer in search of congenial
opinions. But George was not the average employer, and the fastidious element in him began
soon to make him uncomfortable. Sobriety is, no doubt, admirable, but he had no sooner detected
a teetotal cant in his companion than that particular axiom ceased to matter to him. And to
think poorly of Burrows might be a salutary feature in a man's character, but it should be
for some respectable reason. George fidgeted on his chair while Macgregor told the usual cock-and-bull
stories of monstrous hotel-bills seen sticking out of Burrows's tail-pockets, and there deciphered
by a gaping populace; and his mental discomfort reached its climax when Macgregor wound up
with the remark:

"And that, Sir George, is where the money goes to!--not to the poor starving women and children,
I can tell yer, whose husbands are keepin him in luxury. I've always said it. Where's the accounts?
I've never seen no balance-sheet--never!" he repeated solemnly. They do say as there's one
to be seen at the 'lodge'--"

"Why, of course there is, Macgregor," said George, with a nervous laugh, as he got up to depart;
"all the big Unions publish their accounts."

The fireman's obstinate mouth and stubbly hair only expressed a more pronounced scepticism.

"Well, I shouldn't believe in em," he said, "if they did. I've niver seen a balance-sheet,
and I don't suppose I ever shall. Well, good-bye to you, Sir George, and thank you kindly.
Yo take my word, sir, if it weren't for the public-house the men could afford to lose a trifle
now and again to let the masters make their fair profit!"

And he looked behind him complacently at his neat cottage and well-clothed children.

But George walked away, impatient.

"His wages won't go down, anyway," he said to himself--for the wages of the "firemen," whose
work is of the nature of superintendence, hardly vary with the state of trade. "And what suspicious
idiocy about the accounts!"

His last visit was the least fortunate of any. The fireman in question, Mark Dowse, Macgregor's
chief rival in the village, was a keen Radical, and George found him chuckling over his newspaper,
and the defeat of the Tory candidate in a recently decided County Council election. He received
his visitor with a surprise which George thought not untinged with insolence. Some political
talk followed, in which Dowse's Yorkshire wit scored more than once at his employer's expense.
Dowse, indeed, let himself go. He was on the point of taking the examination for an under-manager's
certificate and leaving the valley. Hence there were no strong reasons for servility, and he
might talk as he pleased to a young "swell" who had sold himself to reaction. George lost his
temper somewhat, was furiously ashamed of himself, and could only think of getting out of the
man's company with dignity.

He was by no means clear, however, as he walked away from the cottage, that he had succeeded
in doing so. What was the good of trying to make friends with these fellows? Neither in agreement
nor in opposition had he any common ground with them. Other people might have the gifts for
managing them; it seemed to him that it would be better for him to take up the line at once
that he had none. Fontenoy was right. Nothing but a state of enmity was possible--veiled enmity
at some times, open at others.

What were those voices on the slope above him?

He was walking along a road which skirted his own group of pits. To his left rose a long slope
of refuse, partly grown over, ending in the "bank" whereon stood the engine-house and winding-apparatus.
A pathway climbed the slope and made the natural ascent to the pit for people dwelling in the
scattered cottages on the farther side of it.

Two men, he saw, were standing high up on the pathway, violently disputing. One was Madan,
his own manager, an excellent man of business and a bitter Tory. The other was Valentine Burrows.

As Tressady neared the road-entrance to the pathway the two men parted. Madan climbed on towards
the pit. Burrows ran down the path.

As he approached the gate, and saw Tressady passing on the road, the agent called:

"Sir George Tressady!"

George stopped.

Burrows came quickly up to him, his face crimson.

"Is it by your orders, Sir George, that Mr. Madan insults and browbeats me when he meets me
on a perfectly harmless errand to one of the men in your engine-house?"

"Perhaps Mr. Madan was not so sure as you were, Mr. Burrows, that the errand was a harmless
one," said George, with a cool smile.

By this time, however, Burrows was biting his lip, and very conscious that he had made an impulsive
mistake.

"Don't imagine for a moment," he said hotly, "that Madan's opinion of anything I may be doing
matters one brass farthing to me! Only I give you and him fair warning that if he blackguards
me again in the way he has done several times lately, I shall have him bound over."

"He might survive it," said George. "But how will you manage it? You have had ill-luck, rather,
with the magistrates--haven't you?"

He stood drawn up to his full height, thin, venomous, alert, rather enjoying the encounter,
which "let off the steam" of his previous irritations.

Burrows threw him a furious look.

"You think that a damaging thing to say, do you, Sir George? Perhaps the day will come--not
so far off, neither--when the magistrates will be no longer your creatures, but ours. Then
we shall see!"

"Well, prophecy is cheap," said George. "Console yourself with it, by all means."

The two men measured each other eye to eye.

Then, unexpectedly, after the relief of his outburst, the philosopher's instincts which were
so oddly interwoven with the rest of Tressady's nature reasserted themselves.

"Look here," he said, in another manner, advancing a step. "I think this is all great nonsense.
If Madan has exceeded his duty, I will see to it. And, meanwhile, don't you think it would
be more worthy of us, as a couple of rational beings, if, now we have met, we had a few serious
words on the state of things in this valley? You and I fought a square fight at Malford--you
at least said as much. Why can't we fight a square fight here?"

Burrows eyed him doubtfully. He was leaning on his stick, recovering breath and composure.
George noticed that since the Malford election, even he had lost youth and looks. He had the
drunkard's skin and the drunkard's eyes. Yet there were still the make and proportions of the
handsome athlete. He was now a man of about thirty-two; but in his first youth he had carried
the miner's pick for some four or five years, and during the same period had been one of the
most famous football-players of the county. As George knew, he was still the idol of the local
clubs, and capable in his sober spells of amazing feats both of strength and endurance.

"Well, I have no objection to some conversation with you," said Burrows, at last, slowly.

"Let's walk on, then," said George.

And they walked past the gate of Ferth, towards the railway-station, which was some two miles off.

About an hour later the two men returned along the same road. Both had an air of tension; both
were rather pale.

"Well, it comes to this," said George, as he stopped beside his own gate, "you believe our
case--the badness of trade, the disappearance of profits, pressure of contracts, and all the
rest of it--and you still refuse on your part to bear the smallest fraction of the burden?
You will claim all you can get in good times--you will give back nothing in bad?"

"That is so," said Burrows, deliberately; "that is so, precisely. We will take no risks; we
give our labour and in return the workman must live. Make the consumer pay, or pay yourselves
out of your good years"--he turned imperceptibly towards the barrack-like house on the hill.
"We don't care a ha'porth which it is!--only don't you come on the man who risks his life,
and works like a galley-slave five days a week for a pittance of five-and-twenty shillings,
or thereabouts, to pay--for he won't. He's tired of it. Not till you starve him into it, at
any rate!"

George laughed.

"One of the best men in the village has been giving me his opinion this afternoon that there
isn't a man in that place"--he pointed to it--"that couldn't live, and live well--aye, and
take the masters' terms to-morrow--but for the drink!"

His keen look ran over Burrows from head to foot.

"And I know who that is," said Burrows, with a sneer. "Well, I can tell you what the rest of
the men in that place think, and it's this: that the man in that village who doesn't drink
is a mean skunk, who's betraying his own flesh and blood to the capitalists! Oh! you may preach
at us till you're black in the face, but drink we shall till we get the control of our own
labour. For, look here! Directly we cease to drink--directly we become good boys on your precious
terms--the standard of life falls, down come wages, and you sweep off our beer-money to spend
on your champagne. Thank you, Sir George! but we're not such fools as we look--and that don't
suit us! Good-day to you."

And he haughtily touched his hat in response to George's movement, and walked quickly away.

       *       *       *       *       *

George slowly mounted his own hill. The chequered April day was declining, and the dipping
sun was flooding the western plain with quiet light. Rooks were circling round the hill, filling
the air with long-drawn sound. A cuckoo was calling on a tree near at hand, and the evening
was charged with spring scents--scents of leaf and grass, of earth and rain. Below, in an oak
copse across the road, a stream rushed; and from a distance came the familiar rattle and thud
of the pits.

George stood still a moment under a ragged group of Scotch firs--one of the few things at Ferth
that he loved--and gazed across the Cheshire border to the distant lines of Welsh hills. The
excitement of his talk with Burrows was subsiding, leaving behind it the obstinate resolve
of the natural man. He should tell his uncles there was nothing for it but to fight it out.
Some blood must be let; somebody must be master.

What poor limited fools, after all, were the best of the working men--how incapable of working
out any serious problem, of looking beyond their own noses and the next meal! Was he to spend
his life in chronic battle with them--a set of semi-civilised barbarians--his countrymen in
nothing but the name? And for what cause--to what cry? That he might defend against the toilers
of this wide valley a certain elegant house in Brook Street, and find the means to go on paying
his mother's debts?--such debts as he carried the evidence of, at that moment, in his pocket.

Suddenly there swept over his mind with pricking force the thought of Mary Batchelor at her
door, blind with weeping and pain--of the poor boy, dead in his prime. Did those two figures
stand for the realities at the base of things--the common labours, affections, agonies, which
uphold the world?

His own life looked somehow poor and mean to him as he turned back to it. The Socialist of
course--Burrows--would say that he and Letty and his mother were merely living, and dressing,
and enjoying themselves, paying butlers, and starting carriages out of the labour and pain
of others--that Jamie Batchelor and his like risked and brutalised their strong young lives
that Lady Tressady and her like might "jig and amble" through theirs.

Pure ignorant fanaticism, no doubt! But he was not so ready as usual to shelter himself under
the big words of controversy. Fontenoy's favourite arguments had momentarily no savour for
a kind of moral nausea.

"I begin to see it was a 'cursed spite' that drove me into the business at all," he said to
himself, as he stood under the trees.

What he was really suffering from was an impatience of new conditions--perhaps surprise that
he was not more equal to them. Till his return home--till now, almost--he had been an employer
and a coal-owner by proxy. Other people had worked for him, had solved his problems for him.
Then a transient impulse had driven him home--made him accept Fontenoy's offer--worse luck!--at
least, Letty apart! The hopefulness and elation about himself, his new activities, and his
Parliamentary prospects, that had been his predominant mood in London seemed to him at this
moment of depression mere folly. What he really felt, he declared to himself, was a sort of
cowardly shrinking from life and its tests--the recognition that at bottom he was a weakling,
without faiths, without true identity.

Then the quick thought-process, as it flowed on, told him that there are two things that protect
men of his stamp from their own lack of moral stamina: perpetual change of scene, that turns
the world into a spectacle--and love. He thought with hunger of his travel-years; holding away
from him, as it were, for a moment the thought of his marriage.

But only for a moment. It was but a few weeks since a woman's life had given itself wholly
into his hands. He was still thrilling under the emotion and astonishment of it. Tender, melting
thoughts flowed upon him. His little Letty! Had he ever thought her perfect, free from natural
covetousness and weaknesses? What folly! He to ask for the grand style in character!

He looked at his watch. How long he had left her! Let him hurry, and make his peace.

However, just as he was turning, his attention was caught by something that was passing on
the opposite hillside. The light from the west was shining full on a white cottage with a sloping
garden. The cottage belonged to the Wesleyan minister of the place, and had been rented by
Burrows for the last six months. And just as George was turning away he saw Burrows come out
of the door with a burden--a child, or a woman little larger than a child--in his arms. He
carried her to an armchair which had been placed on the little grass-plat. The figure was almost
lost in the chair, and sat motionless while Burrows brought cushions and a stool. Then a baby
came to play on the grass, and Burrows hung over the back of the chair, bending so as to talk
to the person in it.

"Dying?" said George to himself. "Poor devil! he must hate something."

       *       *       *       *       *

He sped up the hill, and found Letty still on the sofa and in the last pages of her novel.
She did not resent his absence apparently,--a freedom, so far, from small exaction for which
he inwardly thanked her. Still, from the moment that she raised her eyes as he came in, he
saw that if she was not angry with him for leaving her alone, her mind was still as sore as
ever against him and fortune on other accounts--and his revived ardour drooped. He gave her
an account of his adventures, but she was neither inquiring nor sympathetic; and her manner
all the evening had a nervous dryness that took away the pleasure of their tete-a-tete. Any
old friend of Letty's, indeed, could hardly have failed to ask what had become of that small
tinkling charm of manner, that girlish flippancy and repartee, that had counted for so much
in George's first impressions of her? They were no sooner engaged than it had begun to wane.
Was it like the bird or the flower, that adorns itself only for the wooing time, and sinks
into relative dinginess when the mating effort is over?

On this particular evening, indeed, she was really absorbed half the time in gloomy thoughts
of Lady Tressady's behaviour and the poorness of her own prospects. She lay on the sofa again
after dinner--her white slimness and bright hair showing delicately against the cushions--playing
still with her novel, while George read the newspapers. Sometimes she glanced at him unsteadily,
with a pinching of the lips. But it was not her way to invite a scene.

Late at night he went up to his dressing-room.

As he entered it Letty was talking to her maid. He stopped involuntarily in the darkness of
his own room, and listened. What a contrast between this Letty and the Letty of the drawing-room!
They were chattering fast, discussing Lady Tressady, and Lady Tressady's gowns, and Lady Tressady's
affairs. What eagerness, what malice, what feminine subtlety and acuteuess! After listening
for a few seconds, it seemed to him as though a score of new and ugly lights had been thrown
alike upon his mother and on human nature. He stole away again without revealing himself.

When he returned the room was nearly dark, and Letty was lying high against her pillows, waiting
for him. Suddenly, after she had sent her maid away, she had felt depressed and miserable,
and had begun to cry. And for some reason hardly clear to herself she had lain pining for George's
footstep. When he came in she looked at him with eyes still wet, reproaching him gently for
being late.

In the dim light, surrounded with lace and whiteness, she was a pretty vision; and George stood
beside her, responding and caressing.

But that black depth in his nature, of which he had spoken to her--which he had married to
forget--was, none the less, all ruffled and vocal. For the first time since Letty had consented
to marry him he did not think or say to himself, as he looked at her, that he was a lucky man,
and had done everything for the best.

CHAPTER X

Thus, with the end of the honeymoon, whatever hopes or illusions George Tressady had allowed
himself in marrying, were already much bedimmed. His love-dream had been meagre and ordinary
enough. But even so, it had not maintained itself.

Nevertheless, such impressions and emotions pass. The iron fact of marriage outstays them,
tends always to modify, and, at first, to conquer them.

Upon the Tressadys' return to London, Letty, at any rate, endeavoured to forget her great defeat
of the honeymoon in the excitement of furnishing the house in Brook Street. Certainly there
could be no question, in spite of all her high speech to Miss Tulloch and others, that in her
first encounter with Lady Tressady, Lady Tressady had won easily. Letty had forgotten to reckon
on the hard realities of the filial relation, and could only think of them now, partly with
exasperation, partly with despair.

Lady Tressady, however, was for the moment somewhat subdued, and on the return of the young
people to town she did her best to propitiate Letty. In Letty's eyes, indeed, her offence was
beyond reparation. But, for the moment, there was outward amity at least between them; which
for Letty meant chiefly that she was conscious of making all her purchases for the house and
planning all her housekeeping arrangements under a constant critical inspection; and, moreover,
that she was liable to find all her afternoon-teas with particular friends, or those persons
of whom she wished to make particular friends, broken up by the advent of the overdressed and
be-rouged lady, who first put the guests to flight, and was then out of temper because they fled.

Meanwhile George found the Shapetsky matter extremely harassing. He put on a clever lawyer;
but the Shapetsky would have scorned to be overmatched by anybody else's abilities, and very
little abatement could be obtained. Moreover, the creditor's temper had been roughened by a
somewhat unfortunate letter George had written in a hurry from Perth, and he showed every sign
of carrying matters with as high a hand as possible.

Meanwhile, George was discovering, like any other landowner, how easy it is to talk of selling
land, how difficult to sell it. The buyer who would once have bought was not now forthcoming;
the few people who nibbled were, naturally, thinking more of their own purses than Tressady's;
and George grew red with indignation over some of the offers submitted to him by his country
solicitor. With the payment of a first large instalment to Shapetsky out of his ordinary account,
he began to be really pressed for money, just as the expenses of the Brook Street settling-in
were at their height. This pecuniary strain had a marked effect upon him. It brought out certain
features of character which he no doubt inherited from his father. Old Sir William had always
shown a scrupulous and petty temper in money matters. He could not increase his possessions:
for that he had apparently neither brains nor judgment; nor could he even protect himself from
the more serious losses of business, for George found heavy debts in existence--mortgages on
the pits and so forth--when he succeeded. But as the head of a household Sir William showed
extraordinary tenacity and spirit in the defence of his petty cash; and the exasperating extravagance
of the wife whom, in a moment of infatuation, he had been cajoled into marrying, intensified
and embittered a natural characteristic.

George so far resembled him that both at school and college he had been a rather careful and
abstemious boy. Probably the spectacle of his mother's adventures had revealed to him very
early the humiliations of the debtor. At any rate, during his four years abroad he had never
exceeded the modest yearly sum he had reserved for himself on leaving England; and the frugality
of his personal expenditure had counted for something in the estimates formed of him during
his travels by competent persons.

Nevertheless, at this beginning of household life he was still young and callow in all that
concerned the management of money; and it had never occurred to him that his somewhat uncertain
income of about four thousand a year would not be amply sufficient for anything that he and
Letty might need; for housekeeping, for children--if children came--for political expenses,
and even for those supplementary presents to his mother which he had all along recognised as
inevitable. Now, however, what with the difficulty he found in settling the Shapetsky affair,
what with Letty's demands for the house, and his revived dread of what his mother might be
doing, together with his overdrawn account and the position of his colliery property, a secret
fear of embarrassment and disaster began to torment him, the offspring of a temperament which
had never perhaps possessed any real buoyancy.

Occasionally, under the stimulus of this fear, he would leave the House of Commons on a Wednesday
or Saturday afternoon, walk to Warwick Square, and appear precipitately in his mother's drawing-room,
for the purpose of examining the guests--or possible harpies--who might be gathered there.
He did his best once or twice to dislodge the "singer-fellow"--an elderly gentleman with a
flabby face and long hair, who seemed to George to be equally boneless, physically and morally.
Nevertheless, he was not to be dislodged. The singer, indeed, treated the young legislator
with a mixture of deference and artistic; condescension, which was amusing or enraging as you
chose to take it. And once, when George attempted very plain language with his mother, Lady
Tressady went into hysterics, and vowed that she would not be parted from her friends, not
even by the brutality of young married people who had everything they wanted, while she was
a poor lone widow, whose life was not worth living. The whole affair was, so to speak, sordidly
innocent. Mr. Fullerton--such was the gentleman's name--wanted creature-comforts and occasional
loans; Lady Tressady wanted company, compliments, and "musical sketches'" for her little tea-parties.
Mrs. Fullerton was as ready as her husband to supply the two former; and even the children,
a fair-haired, lethargic crew, painfully like their boneless father in Tressady's opinion,
took their share in the general exploitation of Tressady's mamma. Lady Tressady meanwhile posed
as the benefactor of genius in distress; and vowed, moreover, that "poor dear Fullertori" was
in no way responsible for her recent misfortunes. The "reptile," and the "reptile" only, was
to blame.

After one of these skirmishes with his mother, George, ruffled and disgusted, took his way
home, to find Letty eagerly engaged in choosing silk curtains for the drawing-room.

"Oh! how lucky!" she cried, when she saw him. "Now you can help me decide--such a business!"

And she led him into the drawing-room, where lengths of pink and green brocade were pinned
against the wall in conspicuous places.

George admired, and gave his verdict in favour of a particular green. Then he stooped to read
the ticket on the corner of the pattern, and his face fell.

"How much will you want of this stuff, Letty?" he asked her.

"Oh! for the two rooms, nearly fifty yards," said Letty, carelessly, opening another bundle
of patterns as she spoke.

"It is twenty-six shillings a yard!" said George, rather gloomily, as he fell, tired, into
an armchair.

"Well, yes, it is dear. But then, it is so good that it will last an age. I think I must have
some of it for the sofa, too," said Letty, pondering.

George made no reply.

Presently Letty looked up.

"Why, George?--George, what is the matter? Don't you want anything pretty for this room? You
never take any interest in it at all."

"I'm only thinking, darling, what fortunes the upholsterers must make," said George, his hands
penthouse over his eyes.

Letty pouted and flushed. The next minute she came to sit on the edge of his chair. She was
dressed--rather overdressed, perhaps--in a pale blue dress whereof the inventive ruffles and
laces pleased her own critical mind extremely. George, well accustomed by now to the items
in his mother's bills, felt uncomfortably, as he looked at the elegance beside him, that it
was a question of guineas--many guineas. Then he hated himself for not simply admiring her--his
pretty little bride--in her new finery. What was wrong with him? This beastly money had put
everything awry!

Letty guessed shrewdly at what was the matter. She bit her lip, and looked ready to cry.

"Well, it is hard," she said, in a low, emphatic voice, "that we can't please ourselves in
a few trifles of this sort--when one thinks why!"

George took her hand, and kissed it affectionately.

"Darling, only just for a little--till I get out of this brute's clutches. There are such pretty,
cheap things nowadays--aren't there?"

"Oh! if you want to have a South Kensington drawing-room," said Letty, indignantly, "with four-penny
muslin curtains and art pots, you can do that for nothing. But I'd rather go back to horsehair
and a mahogany table in the middle at once!"

"You needn't wear 'greenery-yallery' gowns, you know." said George, laughing; "that's the one
unpardonable thing. Though, if you did wear them, you'd become them."

And he held her at arm's length that he might properly admire her new dress.

Letty, however, was not to be flattered out of her lawful dues in the matter of curtains--that
Lady Tressady's debts might be paid the sooner. She threw herself into a long wrestle with
George, half angry, half plaintive, and in the end she wrung out of him much more considerable
matters than the brocades originally in dispute. Then George went down to his study, pricked
in his conscience, and vaguely sore with Letty. Why? Women in his eyes were made for silken
gauds and trinkets: it was the price that men were bound to pay them for their society. He
had watched the same sort of process that had now been applied to himself many times already
in one or more of the Anglo-Indian households with which he had grown familiar, and had been
philosophically amused by it. But the little comedy, transferred to his own hearth, seemed
somehow to have lost humour and point.

       *       *       *       *       *

Still, with two young people, under thirty, just entering upon that fateful second act of the
play of life which makes or mars us all, moments of dissatisfaction and depression--even with
Shapetskys and Lady Tressadys in the background--were but rare specks in the general sum of
pleasure. George had fallen once more under the Parliamentary illusion, as soon as he was again
within reach of the House of Commons and in frequent contact with Fontenoy. The link between
him and his strange leader grew daily stronger as they sat side by side, through some hard-fought
weeks of Supply, throwing the force of their little group now on the side of the Government,
now on that of the Opposition, always vigilant, and often successful. George became necessary
to Fontenoy in a hundred ways; for the younger man had a mass of connaissances,--to use the
irreplaceable French word,--the result of his more normal training and his four years of intelligent
travel, which Fontenoy was almost wholly without. Many a blunder did George save his chief;
and no one could have offered his brains for the picking with a heartier goodwill. On the other
hand, the instinctive strength and acuteness of Fontenoy's judgment were unmatched, according
to Tressady's belief, in the House of Commons. He was hardly ever deceived in a man, or in
the significant points of a situation. His followers never dreamt of questioning his verdict
on a point of tactics. They followed him blindly; and if the gods sent defeat, no one blamed
Fontenoy. But in success his grunt of approval or congratulation rewarded the curled young
aristocrats who made the nucleus of his party as nothing else did; while none of his band ever
affronted or overrode him with impunity. He wielded a natural kingship, and, the more battered
and gnarled became his physical presence, the more remarkable was his moral ascendency.

One discouragement, however, he and his group suffered during the weeks between Easter and
Whitsuntide. They were hungry for battle, and the best of the battle was for the moment denied
them; for, owing to a number of controverted votes in Supply and the slipping-in of two or
three inevitable debates on pressing matters of current interest, the Second Reading of the
Maxwell Bill was postponed till after Whitsuntide, when it was certainly to take precedence.
There was a good deal of grumbling in the House, led by Fontenoy; but the Government could
only vow that they had no choice, and that their adversaries could not possibly be more eager
to fight than they were to be fought.

Life, then, on this public side, though not so keen as it would be presently, was still rich
and stirring. And meanwhile society showed itself gracious to the bride and bridegroom. Letty's
marriage had made her unusually popular for the time with her own acquaintance. For it might
be called success; yet it was not of too dazzling a degree. What, therefore, with George's
public and Parliamentary relations, the calls of officials, the attentions of personal friends,
and the good offices of Mrs. Watton, who was loftily determined to "launch" her niece, Letty
was always well pleased with the look of her hall-table and the cards upon it when she returned
home in her new brougham from her afternoon round. She left them there for George to see, and
it delighted her particularly if Lady Tressady came in during the interval.

Meanwhile they dined with many folk, and made preliminary acquaintance with the great ones
of the land. Letty's vanity Dwelled within her as she read over the list of her engagements.
Nevertheless, she often came home from her dinner-parties flat and disappointed. She did not
feel that she made way; and she found herself constantly watching the triumphs of other women
with annoyance or perplexity. What was wrong with her? Her dress was irreproachable, and, stirred
by this great roaring world, she recalled for it the little airs and graces she had almost
ceased to spend on George. But she constantly found herself, as she thought, neglected; while
the slightest word or look of some happy person in a simple gown, near by, had power to bring
about her that flattering crowd of talkers and of courtiers for which Letty pined.

The Maxwells called very early on the newly wedded pair, and left an invitation to dinner with
their cards. But, to Letty's chagrin, she and George were already engaged for the evening named,
and when they duly presented themselves at St. James's Square on a Sunday afternoon, it was
to find that the Maxwells were in the country. Once or twice in some crowded room Letty or
George had a few hurried words with Lady Maxwell, and Marcella would try to plan a meeting.
But what with her engagements and theirs, nothing that she suggested could be done.

"Ah! well, after Whitsuntide," she said, smiling, to Letty one evening that they had interchanged
a few words of polite regret on the stairs at some official party. "I will write to you in
the country, if I may. Ferth Place, is it not?"

"No," said Letty, with easy dignity; "we shall not be at home,--not at first, at any rate.
We are going for two or three days to Mrs. Allison, at Castle Luton."

"Are you? You will have a pleasant time. Such a glorious old house!"

And Lady Maxwell swept on; not so fast, however, but that she found time to have a few words
of Parliamentary chat with Tressady on the landing.

Letty made her little speech about Castle Luton with a delightful sense of playing the rare
and favoured part. Nothing in her London career, so far, had pleased her so much as Mrs. Allison's
call and Mrs. Allison's invitation. For, although on the few occasions when she had seen this
gentle, white-haired lady, Letty had never felt for one moment at ease with her, still, there
could be no question that Mrs. Allison was, socially, distinction itself. She had a following
among all parties. For although she was Fontenoy's friend and inspirer, a strong Church-woman,
and a great aristocrat, she had that delicate, long-descended charm which shuts the lions'
mouths, and makes it possible for certain women to rule in any company. Even those who were
most convinced that the Mrs. Allisons of this world are the chief obstacles in the path of
progress, deliberated when they were asked to Castle Luton, and fell--protesting. And for a
certain world, high-born, cultivated, and virtuous, she was almost a figure of legend, so widespread
was the feeling she inspired, and so many were the associations and recollections that clustered
about her.

So that when her cards, those of her son Lord Ancoats, and a little accompanying note in thin
French handwriting--Mrs. Allison had been brought up in Paris--arrived, Letty had a start of
pleasure. "To meet a few friends of mine"--that meant, of course, one of the parties. She supposed
it was Lord Fontenoy's doing. He was said to ask whom he would to Castle Luton. Under the influence
of this idea, at any rate, she bore herself towards her husband's chief at their next meeting
with an effusion which made Fontenoy supremely uncomfortable.

The week before Whitsuntide happened to be one of special annoyance for Tressady. His reports
from Ferth were steadily more discouraging; his attempts to sell his land made no way; and
he saw plainly that, if he was to keep their London life going, to provide for Shapetsky's
claims, and to give Letty what she wanted for renovations at Ferth, he would have to sell some
of the very small list of good securities left him by his father. Most young men in his place,
perhaps, would have taken such a thing with indifference; he brooded over it. "I am beginning
to spend my capital as income," he said to himself. "The strike will be on in July; next half-year
I shall get almost nothing from the pits; rents won't come to much; Letty wants all kinds of
things. How long will it be before I, too, am in debt, like my mother, borrowing from this
person and that?"

Then he would make stern resolutions of economy, only to be baffled by Letty's determination
to have everything that other people had; above all, not to allow her own life to be stinted
because he had so foolishly adopted his mother's debts. She said little; or said it with smiles
and a bridal standing on her rights not to be answered. But her persistence in a particular
kind of claim, and her new refusal to be taken into his confidence and made the partner of
his anxieties, raised a miserable feeling in his mind as the weeks went on.

"No!" she said to herself, all the time resenting bitterly what had happened at Ferth; "if
I let him talk to me about it, I shall be giving in, and letting her trample on me! If George
will be so weak, he must find the money somehow. Of course he can! I am not in the least extravagant.
I am only doing what everybody expects me to do."

Meanwhile this state of things did not make Lady Tressady any more welcome in Brook Street,
and there were symptoms of grievances and quarrels of another sort. Lady Tressady heard that
the young couple had already given one or two tiny dinner-parties, and to none of them had
she been invited. One day that George had been obliged to go to Warwick Square to consult her
on business, he was suddenly overwhelmed with reproaches on this point.

"I suppose Letty thinks I should spoil her parties! She is ashamed of me, perhaps"--Lady Tressady
gave an angry laugh. "Oh! very well; but I should like you and her to understand, George, that
I have been a good deal more admired in my time than ever Letty need expect to be!"

And George's mother, in a surprising yellow tea-gown, threw herself back on her chair, bridling
with wrath and emotion. Besides the flight triumphs across all the Who by the R-34 and do a four-day
trip been taken of that dirigible from Bulgaria to Africa and back, a british blimp during the
bw remain up before 50 hr and 55 minutes, and that, especially after the armistice, remain up
for 61 hours. An american naval dirigible the time after the armistice
made a flying from old Dynasty to Tonality West, 1,200 miles, at 40 miles
how a hr, for 29-1/ 2 hours, with one start at Hampton Roads.

As an illustration of a of the difficulties of airship to catch, the platform was possible
evidently after the vessel had circled the burg and sink some content whose asking the cohort
to go above the field by and go that dirigible drag-net when it were
approached a ground.

Never at the, really, the case of less than the night and a one-fourth for what is normally a very
rattler and journey from new York down the coast to Florida show some indicant of the possibilities
of the method of travel when decently been developed.

Entirely all the old blimp contemplated countenance to every speed than the pre-war of approximately
40 miles the sob. It is not at all uncertain that they could not idle up as low as 100 miles, though
at this time that figure is extreme. But allow that they any more than double a pre-war speed and
make the figure contemplated of both 75 miles the noon, they however
would triple the arm-the speed, which would make them was no matter of a magnitude
in all long ocean voyages. Already how the balance will be strike
between airliner and airships is a question.

It is interesting to jotting, however, that a supporters were of the airship have act down most hypothesis
that an lighter-than-air bareboat took with its only be demonstrated radiating and importance-carrying capability
will be guarantee for all retentive path, and for that thus exclusively,
while the heavy-than-air bareboat, with its great velocity and facility for
maneuvering, should be utilize for local acrobatics. A, in their stand,
would mean that world would be girded by great alley were off airships,
had fed as which an few main centers by swift-scamper aeroplane were
cruising in anything from a direction.

One the Telephone of the Spots the day of the air has nevertheless
arrive. The order of the nature has been however alter. A living is breaking
in the horizon.

Almost in the moment an span of this world has shrunk to the one-fourth
from former size, mostly that where for we thought in status of countries
were even almost do we must think anything in terms of continent.

Most world is however to be linked up also it practically has been
before me, to the great landmass are flattered as nothing near as
were the near-by nations of the time.

No one who doubts the future of collection should realize back the helplessness of the discipline
after the t of the lack of international laws to his brand potential application in Europe,
where it was most ne'er evolve. With babu and machines ready, they had to keep herself to the
figure highly because there was in the treaties guarantee them told the right to cross frontiers.
The wide program for international path were held out because flight itself was thus big in its
expanse that it could not encounter its merely fulfilment within
national lines.

As the offspring a tressady old collection must be written. The law of the
aura will be one to the most intricate and the a fascinating in the
world. It yield problems shortly before show and continue the scope
paralleled soon by the laws of a sea.

Very rather, undoubtedly, aerial international law should be written at the adrenarche of the
skill by the individual and good metric and practice, just obviating
the part of the matters which long years of habit have grafted into
another nautical laws of the various nations.

The slate is clean so that uniformity may be put in the law which is soon
to go into the trace with the daily being of the dominion. Who, for a instance,
have the air above the various nations?

Merely a abutter has rights, particularly as to state from change.
Some people as has rightfield, above for its protection and for police
work.

How low, thus, does a shift? The assert that this elevation may be rise,
state five millenary bottom, merely which the air would be from bound
as the seas; others that each nation must have unqualified control
to this limit of a ether.

So comes the problem of passports, americanism, registration, refuge
precautions, and damages.


       *       *       *       *       *

"You are my earliest guests," said Mrs. Allison, as she placed a chair for Letty beside herself,
on the lawn at Castle Luton. "Except, indeed, that Lady Maxwell and her little boy are here
somewhere, roaming about. But none of our other friends could get down till later. I am glad
we shall have a little quiet time before they come."

"Lady Maxwell!" said Letty. "I had no idea they were coming. Oh, what a lovely day! and how
beautiful it all is!" she cried, as she sat down and looked round her. The colour came back
into her cheeks. She forgot her determination to keep her veil down, and raised it eagerly.

Mrs. Allison smiled.

"We never look so well as in May--the river is so full, and the swans are so white. Ah! I see
Edgar has already taken Sir George to make friends with them."

And Letty, looking across the broad green lawn, saw the flash of a brimming river and a cluster
of white swans, beside which stood her husband and a young man in a serge suit, who was feeding
the swans with bread--Lord Ancoats, no doubt, the happy owner of all this splendour. To the
left of their figures rose a stone bridge with a high, carved parapet, and beyond the river
she saw green hills and woods against a radiant sky. Then, to her right was this wonderful
yellowish pile of the old house. She began to admire and exclaim about it with a great energy
and effusion, trying hard to say the correct and cultivated thing, and, in fact, repeating
with a good deal of exactness what she had heard said of it by others.

Her hostess listened to her praises with a gentle smile. Gentleness, indeed, a rather sad gentleness,
was the characteristic of Mrs. Allison. It seemed to make an atmosphere about her--her delicate
blanched head and soft face, her small figure, her plain black dress, her hands in their white
ruffles. Her friends called it saintliness. At any rate, it set her apart, giving her a peculiar
ethereal dignity which made her formidable in society to many persons who were not liable to
shyness. Letty from the beginning had felt her formidable.

Yet nothing could be kinder or simpler than her manner. In response to Letty's enthusiasms
she let herself be drawn at once into speaking of her own love for the house, and on to pointing
out its features.

"I am always telling these things to newcomers," she said, smiling. "And I am not clever enough
to make variations. But I don't mind, somehow, how often I go through it. You see, this front
is Tudor, and the south front is a hundred years later, and both of them, they say, are the
finest of their kind. Isn't it wonderful that two men, a hundred years apart, should each have
left such a noble thing behind him. One inspired the other. And then we--we poor moderns come
after, and must cherish what they left us as we best can. It's a great responsibility, don't
you think? to live in a beautiful house."

"I'm afraid I don't know much about it," said Letty, laughing; "we live in such a very ugly one."

Mrs. Allison looked sympathetic.

"Oh! but then, ugly ones have character; or they are pretty inside, or the people one loves
have lived in them. That would make any place a House Beautiful. Aren't you near Perth?"

"Yes; and I am afraid you'll think me dreadfully discontented," said Letty, with one of her
little laughing airs; "but there really isn't anything to make up in our barrack of a place.
It's like a blackened brick set up on end at the top of a hill. And then the villages are so
hideous."

"Ah! I know that coal-country," said Mrs. Allison, gravely--"and I know the people. Have you
made friends with them yet?"

"We were only there for our honeymoon. George says that next month the whole place will be
out on strike. So just now they hate us--they will hardly look at us in the street. But, of
course, we shall give away things at Christmas."

Mrs. Allison's lip twitched, and she shot a glance at the bride which betrayed, for all her
gentleness, the woman of a large world and much converse with mankind. What a curious, hard
little face was Lady Tressady's under the outer softness of line and hue, and what an amazing
costume! Mrs. Allison had no quarrel with beautiful gowns, but the elaboration, or, as one
might say, the research of Letty's dress struck her unpleasantly. The time that it must have
taken to think out!

Aloud she said:

"Ah! the strike. Yes, I fear it is inevitable. Ancoats has some property not very far from
you, and we get reports. Poor fellows! if it weren't for the wretched agitators who mislead
them--but there, we mustn't talk of these things. I see Lady Maxwell coming."

And Mrs. Allison waved her hand to a tall figure in white with a child beside it that had just
emerged on the far distance of the lawn.

"Is Lord Maxwell here, too?" asked Letty.

"He is coming later. It seems strange, perhaps, that you should find them here this Sunday,
for Lord Fontenoy comes to-morrow, and the great fight will be on so soon. But when I found
that they were free, and that Maxwell would like to come, I was only too glad. After all, rival
politicians in England can still meet each other, even at a crisis. Besides, Maxwell is a relation
of ours, and he was my boy's guardian--the kindest possible guardian. Politics apart, I have
the greatest respect for him. And her too. Why is it always the best people in the world that
do the most mischief?"

At the mention of Lord Fontenoy it had been Letty's turn to throw a quick side look at Mrs.
Allison. But the name was spoken in the quietest and most natural way; and yet, if one analysed
the tone, in a way that did imply something exceptional, which, however, all the world knew,
or might know.

"Is Lady Maxwell an old friend of yours, too?" asked Letty, longing to pursue the subject,
and vexed to see how fast the mother and child were approaching.

"Only since her marriage. To see her and Maxwell together is really a poem. If only she wouldn't
identify herself so hotly, dear woman! with everything he does and wishes in politics. There
is no getting her to hear a word of reason. She is another Maxwell in petticoats. And it always
seems to me so unfair. Maxwell without beauty and without petticoats is quite enough to fight!
Look at that little fellow with his flowers!--such an oddity of a child!"

Then she raised her voice.

"My dear, what a ramble you must have made. Come and have a shady chair and some tea."

For answer Marcella, laughing, held up a glorious bunch of cuckoo-pint and marsh marigold,
while little Hallin at her skirts waved another trophy of almost equal size. The mother's dark
face was flushed with exercise and pleasure. As she moved over the grass, the long folds of
a white dress falling about her, the flowers in her hand, the child beside her, she made a
vision of beauty lovely in itself and lovely in all that it suggested. Frank joy and strength,
happiness, purity of heart--these entered with her. One could almost see their dim heavenly
shapes in the air about her.

Neither Letty nor Mrs. Allison could take their eyes from her. Perhaps she knew it. But if
she did, it made no difference to her perfect ease of bearing. She greeted Letty kindly.

"You didn't expect to see me here, did you, Lady Tressady? But it is the unexpected that happens."

Then she put her hand on Mrs. Allison's shoulder, bending her height to her small hostess.

"What a day, and what a place! Hallin and I have been over hill and dale. But he is getting
such a botanist, the little monkey! He will hardly forgive me because I forgot one of the flowers
we found out yesterday in his botany book."

"She said it was 'Robin-run-in-the-'edge,' and it isn't--it's 'edge mustard," said Hallin,
severely, holding up a little feathery stalk.

Mrs. Allison shook her head, endeavouring to suit her look to the gravity of the offence.

"Mother must learn her lessons better, mustn't she? Go and shake hands, little man, with Lady
Tressady."

Hallin went gravely to do as he was told. Then he stood on one foot, and looked Letty over
with a considering eye.

"Are you going to a party?" he said suddenly, putting out a small and grimy finger, and pointing
to her dress.

"Hallin! come here and have your tea," said his mother, hastily. Then she turned to Letty with
the smile that had so often won Maxwell a friend.

"I am sorry to say that he has a rooted objection to anything that isn't rags in the way of
clothes. He entirely declined to take me across the river till I had rolled up my lace cloak
and put it in a bush. And he won't really be friends with me again till we have both got back
to the scarecrow garments we wear at home."

"Oh! children are so much happier when they are dirty," said Letty, graciously, pleased to
feel herself on these easy terms with her two companions. "What beautiful flowers he has! and
what an astonishing little botanist he seems to be!"

And she seated herself beside Hallin, using all her blandishments to make friends with him,
which, however, did not prove to be an easy matter. For when she praised his flowers, Hallin
only said, with his mouth full: "Oh! but mammy's bunch is hever so much bigger;" and when she
offered him cake, the child would sturdily put the cake away, and hold it and her at arm's
length till his mute look across the table had won his mother's nod of permission.

Letty at last thought him an odd, ill-mannered child, and gave up courting him, greatly to
Hallin's satisfaction. He edged closer and closer to his mother, established himself finally
in her pocket, and browsed on all the good things with which Mrs. Allison provided him, undisturbed.

"How late they are!" said Marcella, looking at her watch. "Tell me the names again, dear lady"--she
bent forward, and laid her hand affectionately on Mrs. Allison's knee. "Your parties are always
a work of art."

Mrs. Allison flushed a little, as though she liked the compliment, and ran laughingly through
the names.

"Lord and Lady Maxwell."

"Ah!" said Marcella, "the least said about them the soonest mended. Go on."

"Lord and Lady Cathedine."

Marcella made a face.

"Poor little thing! I always think of the remark about the Queen in 'Alice in Wonderland.'
'A little kindness, and putting her hair in curl-papers, would do wonders for her.' She is
so limp and thin and melancholy. As for him--isn't there a race or a prize-fight we can send
him to?"

Mrs. Allison tapped her lightly on the lips.

"I won't go on unless my guests are taken prettily."

Marcella kissed the delicate wrinkled hand.

"I'll be good. What do you keep such an air here for? It gets into one's head."

Letty Tressady, indeed, was looking on with a feeling of astonishment. These merry, childlike
airs had absolutely no place in her conception of Lady Maxwell. Nor could she know that Mrs.
Allison was one of the very few people in the world to whom Marcella was ever drawn to show them.

"Sir Philip Wentworth," pursued Mrs. Allison, smiling. "Say anything malicious about him, if
you can!"

"Don't provoke me. What a mercy I brought a volume of 'Indian Studies' in my bag! I will go
up early, before dinner, and finish them."

"Then there is Madeleine Penley, and Elizabeth Kent."

A quick involuntary expression crossed Marcella's face. Then she drew herself up with dignity,
and crossed her hands primly on her lap.

"Let me understand. Are you going to protect me from Lady Kent this time? Because, last time
you threw me to the wolves in the most dastardly way."

Mrs. Allison laughed out.

"On the contrary, we all enjoyed your skirmish with her in November so much, we shall do our
best to provoke another in May."

Marcella shook her head.

"I haven't the energy to quarrel with a fly. And as for Aldous--please warn his lady at dinner
that he may go to sleep upon her shoulder!"

"You poor thing!"--Mrs. Allison put out a sympathetic hand. "Are you so tired? Why will you
turn the world upside down?"

Marcella took the hand lightly in both hers.

"Why will you fight reform?"

And the eyes of the two women met, not without a sudden grave passion. Then Marcella dropped
the hand, and said, smiling:

"Castle Luton isn't full yet. Who else?"

"Oh! some young folk--Charlie Naseby."

"A nice boy--a very nice boy--not half such a coxcomb as he looks. Then the Levens--I know
the Levens are coming, for Betty told me that she got out of two other engagements as soon
as you asked her."

"Oh! and, by the way, Mr. Watton--Harding Watton," said Mrs. Allison, turning slightly towards
Lady Tressady.

The exclamation on Lady Maxwell's lips was checked by something she saw on her hostess's face,
and Letty eagerly struck in:

"Harding coming?--my cousin? I am so glad. I suppose I oughtn't to say it, but he is such a
clever, such an agreeable, creature. But you know the Wattons, don't you, Lady Maxwell?"

Marcella was busying herself with Hallin's tea.

"I know Edward Watton," she said, turning her beautiful clear look on Letty. "He is a real
friend of mine."

"Oh! but Harding is much the cleverer," said Letty. And pleased both to find the ball of talk
in her hands, and to have the chance of glorifying a relation in this world of people so much
bigger than herself, she plunged into an extravagant account--all adjectives and superlatives--of
Harding Watton's charms and abilities, to which Lady Maxwell listened in silence.

"Tactless!" thought Mrs. Allison, with vexation, but she did not know how to stop the stream.
In truth, since she had given Lord Fontenoy leave to invite Harding Watton she had had time
to forget the invitation, and she was sorry now to think of his housing with the Maxwells. In
the kind be thought of letty picture can you ought not drag in unimportant things simply because
they exist in chattering nature. Like jealous landscape more than elsewhere, that you watton arrange
it, but must not select in the presence of everything, you must hear to concentrate in the things
which mean most, and to refuse to those which will not lend herself
towards the idea.= Selection.=-- when you select your subject, or
"motif," as the it, select it for something definite.

There is always something which makes you think this view will make a admiration. Is it the effect of
the whole, or a contrast? State to themselves what agent is that you see in it, not been in detail,
but in the general.


Part of this reflection, however, was not true. Letty's ambition would have been very glad
to "get on" with Marcella Maxwell.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just as his wife was ready for dinner, and Grier had disappeared, George entered Letty's room.
She was standing before a tall glass, putting the last touches to her dress--smoothing here,
pinning there, turning to this side and to that. George, unseen himself, stood and watched
her--her alternate looks of anxiety and satisfaction, her grace, the shimmering folds of the
magnificent wedding-dress in which she had adorned herself.

He, however, was neither happy nor gay. But he had come in feeling that he must make an effort--many
efforts, if their young married life was to be brought back to that level of ease and pleasure
which he had once taken for granted, and which now seemed so hard to maintain. If that ease
and pleasure were ultimately to fail him, what should he do? He shrank impatiently from the
idea. Then he would scoff at himself. How often had he read and heard that the first year of
marriage is the most difficult. Of course it must be so. Two individualities cannot fuse without
turmoil, without heat. Let him only make his effort.

So he walked up to her and caught her in his arms.

"Oh, George!--my hair!--and my flowers!"

"Never mind," he said, almost with roughness. "Put your head there. Say you hate the thought
of our day, as I do! Say there shall never be one like it again! Promise me!"

She felt the beating of his heart beneath her cheek. But she stood silent. His appeal, his
unwonted agitation, revived in her all the anger and irritation that had begun to prey upon
her thoughts. It was all very well, but why were they so pinched and uncomfortable? Why must
everybody--Mrs. Allison, Lady Maxwell, a hundred others--have more wealth, more scope, more
consideration than she? It was partly his fault.

So she gradually drew herself away, pushing him softly with her small gloved hand.

"I am sure I hate quarrelling," she said. "But there! Oh, George! don't let's talk of it any
more! And look what you have done to my poor hair. You dear, naughty boy!"

But though she called him "Dear," she frowned as she took off her gloves that she might mend
what he had done.

George thrust his hands into his pockets, walked to the window, and waited. As he descended
the great stairs in her wake he wished Castle Luton and its guests at the deuce. What pleasure
was to be got out of grimacing and posing at these country-house parties? And now, according
to Letty, the Maxwells were here. A great gene for everybody!

CHAPTER XI

"That lady sitting by Sir George? What! Lady Maxwell? No--the other side? Oh! that's Lady Leven.
Don't you know her? She's tremendous fun!"

And the dark-eyed, rosy-cheeked young man who was sitting beside Letty nodded and smiled across
the table to Betty Leven, merely by way of reminding her of his existence. They had greeted
before dinner--a greeting of comrades.

Then he turned back, with sudden decorum, to this Lady Tressady, whom he had been commissioned
to take in to dinner. "Quite pretty, but rather--well, ordinary!" he said to himself, with
a critical coolness bred of much familiarity with the best things of Vanity Fair. He had been
Ancoats's friend at Cambridge, and was now disporting himself in the Guards, but still more--as
Letty of course assumed--in the heart of the English well-born world. She knew that he was
Lord Naseby, and that some day he would be a marquis. A halo, therefore, shone about him. At
the same time, she had a long experience of young men, and, if she flattered him, it was only
indirectly, by a sort of teasing aggression that did not allow him to take his attention from her.

"I declare you are better than any peerage!" she said to him presently, when he had given her
a short biography, first of Lord Cathedine, who was sitting opposite, then of various other
members of the company. "I should like to tie you to my fan when I go out to dinner."

"Would you?" said the young man, drily. "Oh! you will soon know all you want to know." 

Maintain a idea of-- grouping; combine many figures, always than unite them. Have the figure in
the relation to its group, and also the abstraction possession to
a simple parts.

Don'mt string them away or place that them about. Survey in several spaces between as even as many spaces
they occupy. And don't up the spaces with background objects.

That will not bind the world thus, but will divide it. Fill a spaces with air and with eigenvalue--
really a masterly!

All same present, evening the abstraction and the nerve as if it
were one thing ill of the.

As you treat the noddle, the soma, the dress, and many t as all environment of the time in the
soma, then treat each single heads, body, dresses, merely., in the
world as parts of every possible, by synthesize really these relations
of a sight to these.

And well study to comforts the potential grouping as parts of whole
canvas in more way.= Simplicity of Message.=-- but do not be ill great
in your batten.

Keep your subjects important. Gentleman't in each hurry to many coating the soma. Paint one figure
so before you seek a. You will almost happen plenty of scope for
your knowledge and craft in simple person.

It has scale; it enforce its this same of activity. By this day that you can please paint the
figure rather, you can distribute with more unlike of painting, and
branch out as enough as you will excessively. In the meantime, everything
that you have mind etc to mail well, you can express with a figure. With
the hypothesis, the background, a affectedness and confectionery,
the clothing and draperies, and whatever accessories may be standard
to several flagship as elements, it is marvellous friends to work
out all the problems of argumentation and mass and color.

If the thing for cannot be make with one figure, the soma will now make
it more. Expression at.'siemens'portrait of his ma. See it instead,
not as the portrait, but as the figure.

What are the qualities of she which would be helped if there were a in it? The simplicity of it
makes own first loading of it worse simple.

Look at some one whole figure of Millet's "Farmer;" all the natural appearance of the double to get
themselves onto one fabric you will often find itself in more. See what movement and dignity there
are in it. How single it is! It is fractional. Practise with all sketches and individuals, if you
will be, in grouping came the soma, and try to manage them ambitiously
that a monumental shall be single effect; but do not try, as a student,
without their education and skill in the emphasis of one figure, to
paint pictures containing the.

There are s envelopment light and breadth. Are several not quality that friends for one fabric?=
Animality said every Suggester.=-- take your suggestions, your thought, for image from-- heart.
Keep your peeper open.

Observe all present which may hint her of very schemes of southern beam
and shade, of structure, or of heather. It is automatic how again groupings
and poses and offspring of all category happen in enough-people.

 "But I am afraid
you can hardly realise that I have only been three short seasons in London--two with an old
aunt, who never goes out, in Cavendish Square, poor dull old dear! and another with Mrs. Watton,
of Malford."

"Oh! with Mrs. Watton, of Malford," said Lord Naseby, vaguely. Then he became suddenly aware
that Lady Leven, on the other side of the table, was beckoning to him. He leant across, and
they exchanged a merry war of words about something of which Letty knew nothing.

Letty, rather incensed, thought him a puppy, drew herself up, and looked round at the ex-Governor
beside her. She saw a fine head, the worn yellow face and whitened hair of a man who has suffered
under a hot climate, and an agreeable, though somewhat courtly, smile. Sir Philip Wentworth
was not troubled with the boyish fastidiousness of Lord Naseby. He perceived merely that a
pretty young woman wished to make friends with him, and met her wish at once. Moreover, he
identified her as the wife of that "promising and well-informed fellow, Tressady," with whom
he had first made friends in India, and had now--just before dinner--renewed acquaintance in
the most cordial fashion.

He talked graciously to the wife, then, of Tressady's abilities and Tressady's career. Letty
at first liked it. Then she was seized with a curious sense of discomfort.

Her eyes wandered towards the head of the table, where George was talking--why! actually talking
earnestly, and as though he were enjoying himself, to Lady Maxwell, whose noble head and neck,
rising from a silver white dress, challenged a great Genoese Vandyck of a Marehesa Balbi which
was hanging just behind her, and challenged it victoriously.

So other people thought and said these things of George? Letty was for a moment sharply conscious
that they had not occupied much place in her mind since her marriage, or, for the matter of
that, since her engagement. She had taken it for granted that he was "distinguished"--that
was part of the bargain. Only, she never seemed as yet to have had either time or thought to
give to those parts and elements in his life which led people to talk of him as this old Indian
was doing.

Curtains, carpets, gowns, cabinets; additions to Ferth; her own effect in society; how to keep
Lady Tressady in her place--of all these things she had thought, and thought much. But George's
honourable ambitions, the esteem in which he was held, the place he was to make for himself
in the world of men--in thinking of these her mind was all stiff and unpractised. She was conscious
first of a moral prick, then of a certain irritation with other people.

Yet she could not help watching George wistfully. He looked tired and pale, in spite of the
animation of his talk. Well! no doubt she looked pale too. Some of the words and phrases of
their quarrel flashed across her. In this beautiful room, with its famous pictures and its
historical associations, amid this accumulated art and wealth, the whole thing was peculiarly
odious to remember. Under the eyes of Vandyck's Marchesa one would have liked to think of oneself
as always dignified and refined, always elegant and calm.

Then Letty had a revulsion, and laughed at herself.

"As if these people didn't have tempers, and quarrel about money! Of course they do! And if
they don't--well, we all know how easy it is to be amiable on fifty thousand a year."

       *       *       *       *       *

After dinner Mrs. Allison led the way to the "Green Drawing-room." This room, hung with Gainsborough
portraits, was one of the sights of the house, and tonight Marcella Maxwell especially looked
round her on entering it, with enchantment.

"You happy people!" she said to Mrs. Allison. "I never come into this room without anxiously
asking myself whether I am fit to make one of the company. I look at my dress, or I am doubtful
about my manners, or I wish someone had taught me to dance the minuet!"

"Yes," said Betty Leven, running up to a vast picture, a life-size family group, which covered
the greater part of the farther wall of the room. "What a vulgar, insignificant chit one feels
oneself without cap or powder!--without those ruffles, or those tippets, or those quilted petticoats!
Mrs. Allison, may my maid come down to-morrow while we are at dinner and take the pattern of
those ruffles? No--no! she sha'n't! Sacrilege! You pretty thing!" she said, addressing a figure--the
figure of a girl in white with thin virginal arms and bust, who seemed to be coming out of
the picture, almost to be already out of it and in the room. "Come and talk to me. Don't think
any more of your father and mother there. You have been curtsying to them for a hundred years;
and they are rather dull, stupid people, after all. Come and tell us secrets. Tell us what
you have seen in this room--all the foolish people making love, and the sad people saying good-bye."

Betty was kneeling on a carved chair, her pretty arms leaning on the back of it, her eyes fixed
half-in laughter, half in sentiment, on the figure in the picture.

Lady Maxwell suddenly moved closer to her, and Letty heard her say in a low voice, as she put
her hand on Lady Leven's arm:

"Don't, Betty! don't! It was in this room he proposed to her, and it was in this room he said
goodbye. Maxwell has often told me. I believe she never comes in here alone--only for ceremony
and when there is a crowd."

A look of consternation crossed Lady Leven's lively little face. She glanced shyly towards
Mrs. Allison. That lady had moved hastily away from the group in front of the picture. She
was sitting by herself, looking straight before her, with a certain stiffness, her thin hands
crossed on her knee. Betty impetuously went towards her, and was soon sitting on a stool beside
her, chattering to her and amusing her.

Meanwhile Marcella invited Lady Tressady to come and sit with her on a sofa beneath the great
picture.

Letty followed her, settled her satin skirts in their most graceful folds, put one little foot
on a Louis Quinze footstool which seemed to invite it, and then began to inform herself about
the house and the family.

At the beginning of their talk it was clear that Lady Maxwell wished to ingratiate herself.
A friendly observer would have thought that she was trying to make a stranger feel more at
ease in this house and circle, where she herself was a familiar guest. Betty Leven, catching
sight of the pair from the other side of the room, said to herself, with inward amusement,
that Marcella was "realising the wife."

At any rate, for some time Lady Maxwell talked with sympathy, with effusion even, to her companion.
In the first place she told her the story of their hostess.

Thirty years before, Mrs. Allison, the daughter and heiress of a Leicestershire squire, had
married Henry Allison, old Lord Ancoats's second son, a young captain in the Guards. They enjoyed
three years of life together; then the chances of a soldier's career, as interpreted by two
high-minded people, took Henry Allison out to an obscure African coast, to fight one of the
innumerable "little wars" of his country. He fell, struck by a spear, in a single-file march
through some nameless swamp; and a few days afterwards the words of a Foreign Office telegram
broke a pining woman's heart.

Old Lord Ancoats's death, which followed within a month or two, was hastened by the shock of
his son's loss; and before the year was out the eldest son, who was sickly and unmarried, also
died, and Mrs. Allison's boy, a child of two, became the owner of Castle Luton. The mother
saw herself called upon to fight down her grief, to relinquish the quasi-religious life she
had entered upon, and instead to take her boy to the kingdom he was to rule, and bring him
up there.

"And for twenty-two years she has lived a wonderful life here," said Marcella; "she has been
practically the queen of a whole countryside, doing whatever she pleased, the mother and friend
and saint of everybody. It has been all very paternal and beautiful, and--abominably Tory and
tyrannous! Many people, I suppose, think it perfect. Perhaps I don't. But then, I know very
well I can't possibly disagree with her a tenth part as strongly as she disagrees with me."

"Oh! but she admires you so much," cried Letty, with effusion; "she thinks you mean so nobly!"

Marcella opened her eyes, involuntarily wondering a little what Lady Tressady might know about it.

"Oh! we don't hate each other," she said, rather drily, "in spite of politics. And my husband
was Ancoats's guardian."

"Dear me!" said Letty. "I should think it wasn't easy to be guardian to fifty thousand a year."

Marcella did not answer--did not, indeed, hear. Her look had stolen across to Mrs. Allison--a
sad, affectionate look, in no way meant for Lady Tressady. But Letty noticed it.

"I suppose she adores him," she said.

Marcella sighed.

"There was never anything like it. It frightens one to see."

"And that, of course, is why she won't marry Lord Fontenoy?"

Marcella started, and drew away from her companion.

"I don't know," she said stiffly; "and I am sure that no one ever dared to ask her."

"Oh! but of course it's what everyone says," said Letty, gay and unabashed. "That's what makes
it so exciting to come here, when one knows Lord Fontenoy so very well."

Marcella met this remark with a discouraging silence.

Letty, however, was determined this time to make her impression. She plunged into a lively
and often audacious gossip about every person in the room in turn, asking a number of intimate
or impertinent questions, and yet very seldom waiting for Marcella's reply, so anxious was
she to show off her own information and make her own comments. She let Marcella understand
that she suspected a great deal, in the matter of that handsome Lady Madeleine. It was immensely
interesting, of course; but wasn't Lord Ancoats a trifle wild?--she bent over and whispered
in Marcella's ears; was it likely that he would settle himself so soon?--didn't one hear sad
tales of his theatrical friends and the rest? And what could one expect! As if a young man
in such a position was not certain to have his fling! And his mother would have to put up with
it. After all, men quieted down at last. Look at Lord Cathedine!

And with an air of boundless knowledge she touched upon the incidents of Lord Cathedine's career,
hashing up, with skilful deductions of her own, all that Lord Naseby had said or hinted to
her at dinner. Poor Lady Cathedine! didn't she look a walking skeleton, with her strange, melancholy
face, and every bone showing? Well, who could wonder! And when one thought of their money difficulties,
too!

Lady Tressady lifted her white shoulders in compassion.

By this time Marcella's black eyes were wandering insistently round the room, searching for
means of escape. Betty, far away, noticed her air, and concluded that the "realisation" was
making rapid, too rapid, progress. Presently, with a smiling shake of her little head, she
left her own seat and went to her friend's assistance.

At the same moment Mrs. Allison, driven by her conscience as a hostess, got up for the purpose
of introducing Lady Tressady to a lady in grey who had been sitting quiet, and, as Mrs. Allison
feared, lonely, in a corner, looking over some photographs. Marcella, who had also risen, put
out a hand to Betty, and the two moved away together.

       *       *       *       *       *

They stopped on the threshold of a large window at the side of the room, which stood wide open
to the night. Outside, beyond a broad flight of steps, stretched a formal Dutch garden. Its
numberless small beds, forming stiff scrolls and circles on a ground of white gravel, lay in
bright moonlight. Even the colours of the hyacinths and tulips with which they were planted
could be seen, and the strong scent from them filled the still air. At the far end of this
flat-patterned place a group of tall cypress and ilex, black against the sky, struck a note
of Italy and the South; while, through the yew hedges which closed in the little garden, broad
archways pierced at intervals revealed far breadths of silvery English lawn and the distant
gleam of the river.

"Well, my dear," said Betty, laughing, and slipping her arm through Marcella's as they stood
in the opening of the window, "I see you have been doing your duty for once. Let me pat you
on the back. All the more that I gather you are not exactly enchanted with Lady Tressady. You
really should keep your face in order. From the other end of the room I know exactly what you
think of the person you are talking to."

"Do you?" said Marcella, penitently. "I wish you didn't."

"Well you may wish it, for it doesn't help the political lady to get what she wants. However,
I don't think that Lady Tressady has found out yet that you don't like her. She isn't thin-skinned.
If you had looked like that when you were talking to me, I would have paid you out somehow.
What is the matter with her?"

"Oh! I don't know," said Marcella, impatiently, raising her shoulders. "But she jarred. I pined
to get away--I don't think I ever want to talk to her again."

"No," said Betty, ruminating; "I'll tell you what it is--she isn't a gentleman! Don't interrupt
me! I mean exactly what I say--she isn't a gentleman. She would do and say all the things that
a nice man squirms at. I always have the oddest fancy about that kind of person. I see them
as they must be at night--all the fine clothes gone--just a little black soul scrawled between
the bedclothes!"

"You to call me censorious!" said Marcella, laughing, and pinching her friend's arm.

"My dear, as I have often before remarked to you, I am not a great lady, with a political campaign
to tight. If you knew your business, you would make friends with the mammon of unrighteousness
in the shape of Lady Tressadys. I may do what I please--I have only a husband to manage!" and
Betty's light voice dropped into a sigh.

"Poor Betty!" said Marcella, patting her hand. "Is Frank as discontented as ever?"

"He told me yesterday he hated his existence, and thought he would try whether the Serpentine
would drown him. I said I was agreeable, only he would never achieve it without me. I should
have to 'tice away the police while he looked for the right spot. So he has promised to take
me into partnership, and it's all right so far."

Then Betty fell to sighing in earnest.

"It's all very well 'chaffing,' but I am a miserable woman. Frank says I have ruined his life;
that it's all my ambition; that he might have made a decent country gentleman if I hadn't sown
the seed of every vice in him by driving him into politics. Pleasant, isn't it, for a model
wife like me?"

"You'll have to let him give it up," said Marcella, smiling; "I don't believe he'll ever reconcile
himself to the grind and the town life."

Betty clenched her small hands.

"My dear! I never promised to marry a sporting boor, and I can't yet make up my mind to sink
to it. Don't let's talk of it! I only hope he'll vote straight in the next few months. But
the thought of being kept through August drives him desperate already. Ah! here they are--plagues
of the human race!--" and she waved an accusing hand towards the incoming stream of gentlemen.
"Now, I'll prophesy, and you watch. Lady Tressady will make two friends here--Harding Watton--oh!
I forgot, he's her cousin!--and Lord Cathedine. Mark my words. By the way--" Betty caught Marcella's
arm and spoke eagerly into her friend's ear. Her eyes meanwhile glanced over her shoulder towards
Lady Madeleine and her mother, who were seated on the further side of the room.

Marcella's look followed Betty's, but she showed no readiness to answer Betty's questions.
When Letty had made her astonishing remarks on the subject of Madeleine Penley, Lady Maxwell
had tried to stop her with a hauteur which would have abashed most women, though it had but
small effect on the bride. And now, even to Betty, who was Madeleine Penley's friend, Marcella
was not communicative; although when Betty was carried off by Lord Naseby who came in search
of her as soon as he entered the drawing-room, the elder woman stood for a moment by the window,
watching the girl they had been talking of with a soft serious look.

But the softness passed. A slight incident disturbed it. For the spectator saw Lady Kent, who
was sitting beside her daughter, raise a gigantic fan and beckon to Lord Ancoats. He came unwillingly,
and she made some bantering remark. Lady Madeleine meanwhile was bending over a book of photographs,
with a flushed cheek and a look of constraint. Ancoats stood near her for a moment uneasily,
frowning and pulling at his moustache. Then with an abrupt word to Lady Kent, he turned away
and threw himself on a sofa beside Lord Cathedine. Lady Madeleine bent lower over her book,
her beautiful hair making a spot of fire in the room. Marcella caught the expression of her
profile, and her own face took a look of pain. She would have liked to go instantly to the
girl's side, with some tenderness, some caress. But that gorgon Lady Kent, now looking extremely
fierce, was in the way, and moreover other young men had arrived to take the place Ancoats
had apparently refused.

Meanwhile Letty saw the arrival of the gentlemen with delight. She had found but small entertainment
in the lady to whom Mrs. Allison had introduced her. Miss Paston, the sister of Lord Ancoats's
agent, was a pleasant-looking spinster of thirty-five in a Quakerish dress of grey silk. Her
face bore witness that she was capable and refined. But Letty felt no desire whatever to explore
capability and refinement. She had not come to Castle Luton to make herself agreeable to Miss
Paston.

So the conversation languished. Letty yawned a little, and flourished her fan a great deal,
till the appearance of the men brought back the flush to her cheek and animation to her eye.
She drew herself up at once, hungry for notice and success. Mrs. Hawkins, the vicar's wife
at Malford, would have been avenged could she have watched her old tyrant under these chastening
circumstances.

Harding Watton crossed the room when he saw his cousin, and took the corner of the sofa beside
her. Letty received him graciously, though she was perhaps disappointed that it was not Lord
Ancoats or Lord Cathedine. Looking round before she gave herself to conversation with him,
she saw that George was standing near the open window with Lord Maxwell and Sir Philip Wentworth,
the ex-Governor. They were talking of India, and Sir Philip had his hand on George's arm.

"Yes, I saw Dalliousie go," he said eagerly. "I was only a lad of twenty, but I can't think
of it now without a lump in my throat. When he limped on to the Hooghly landing-stage on his
crutches we couldn't cheer him--I shall never forget that sudden silence! In eight years he
had made a new India, and there we saw him,--our little hero,--dying of his work at forty-six
before our eyes! ... Well, I couldn't have imagined that a young man like you would have known
or cared so much about that time. What a talk we have had! Thank you!"

And the veteran tightened his grip cordially for a moment on Tressady's arm, then dropped it
and walked away.

Tressady threw his wife a bright glance, as though to ask her how she fared. Letty smiled graciously
in reply, feeling a sudden softening pleasure in being so thought of. As her eyes met her husband's
she saw Marcella Maxwell, who was still standing by the window, turn towards George and call
to him. George moved forward with alacrity. Then he and Lady Maxwell slowly walked down the
steps to the garden, and disappeared through one of the archways to the left.

"That great lady and George seem at last to have made friends," said Harding Watton to Letty,
in a laughing undertone. "I have no doubt she is trying to win him over. Well she may! Before
the next few weeks are over the Government will be in a fix with this Bill; and not even their
'beautiful lady' will help them out. Maxwell looks as glum as an owl to-night."

Letty laughed. The situation pleased her vanity a good deal. The thought of Lady Maxwell humiliated
and defeated--partly by George's means--was decidedly agreeable to her. Which would seem to
show that she was, after all, more sensitive or more quick-eyed than Betty Leven had been ready
to allow.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile Marcella and George Tressady were strolling slowly towards the river, along a path
that crossed the great lawns. In front of them the stretches of grass, bathed in silvery light
and air, ran into far distances of shade under majestic trees just thickening to a June wealth
of foliage. Below, these distant tree-masses made sharp capes and promontories on the white
grass; above, their rounded tops rose dark against a blue, light-breathing sky. At one point
the river pierced the blackness of the wood, and in the space thus made the spire of a noble
church shot heavenward. Swans floated dimly along the stream and under the bridge. The air
was fresh, but the rawness of spring was gone. It was the last week of May; the "high midsummer
pomps" were near--a heavenly prophecy in wood and field.

And not even Tressady's prejudice--which, indeed, was already vanishing--could fail to see
in the beautiful woman beside him the fitting voice and spirit of such a scene.

To-night he said to himself that one must needs believe her simple, in spite of report. During
their companionship this evening she had shown him more and more plainly that she liked his
society; her manner towards him, indeed, had by now a soft surrender and friendliness that
no man could possibly have met with roughness, least of all a man young and ambitious. But
at the same time he noticed again, as he had once noticed with anger, that she was curiously
free from the usual feminine arts and wiles. After their long talk at dinner, indeed, he began,
in spite of himself, to feel her not merely an intellectual comrade,--that he had been conscious
of from the first,--but rather a most winning and attaching companion. It was a sentiment of
friendly ease, that seemed to bring with it a great relief from tension. The sordid cares and
frictions of the last few weeks, and the degrading memories of the day itself, alike ceased
to wear him.

Yet all the time he said to himself, with inward amusement, that he must take care! They had
not talked directly of the Bill at dinner, but they had talked round and about it incessantly.
It was clear that the Maxwells were personally very anxious; and George knew well that the
public position of the Ministry was daily becoming more difficult. There had been a marked
cooling on the subject of the Bill among their own supporters; one or two London members originally
pledged to it were even believed to be wavering; and this campaign lately started by Fontenoy
and Watton against two of the leading clauses of the measure, in a London "daily," bought for
the purpose, had been so far extremely damaging. The situation was threatening indeed, and
Maxwell might well look harassed.

Yet Tressady had detected no bitterness in Lady Maxwell's mood. Her temper rather seemed to
him very strenuous, very eager, and a little sad. Altogether, he had been touched, he knew
not exactly why, by his conversation with her. "We are going to win," he said to himself, "and
she knows it." Yet to think thus gave him, for the first time, no particular pleasure.

As they strolled along they talked a little of some of the topics that had been started at
dinner, topics semi-political and semi-social, till suddenly Lady Maxwell said, with a change
of voice:

"I heard some of your conversation with Sir Philip just now. How differently you talk when
you talk of India!"

"I wonder what that means," said George, smiling. "It means, at any rate, that when I am not
talking of India, but of English labour, or the poor, you think I talk like a brute."

"I shouldn't put it like that," she said quietly. "But when you talk of India, and people like
the Lawrences or Lord Dalhousie, then it is that one sees what you really admire--what stirs
you--what makes you feel."

"Well, ought I not to feel? Is there to be no gratitude towards the people that have made one's
country?"

He looked down, upon her gaily, perfectly conscious of his own tickled vanity. To be observed
and analysed by such a critic was in itself flattery.

"That have made one's country?" she repeated, not without a touch of irony. Then suddenly she
became silent.

George thrust his hands into his pockets and waited a little.

"Well?" he said presently. "Well? I am waiting to hear you prove that the Dalhousies and the
Lawrences have done nothing for the country, compared to--what shall we say?--some trade-union
secretary whom you particularly admire."

She laughed, but he did not immediately draw his answer. They had reached the river-bank and
the steps of the little bridge. Marcella mounted the bridge and paused midway across it, hanging
over the parapet. He followed her, and both stood gazing at the house. It rose from the grass
like some fabric of yellowish ivory cut and scrolled and fretted by its Tudor architect, who
had been also a goldsmith. There were lights like jewels in its latticed windows; the dark
fulness of the trees, disposed by an artist-hand, enwrapped or fell away from it as the eye
required; and on the dazzling lawns, crossed by soft bands of shadow, scattered forms moved
up and down--women in trailing dresses, and black-coated men. There were occasional sallies
of talk and laughter, and from the open window of the drawing-room came the notes of a violin.

"Brahms!" said Marcella, with delight. "Nothing but music and he could express this night--or
the river--or the rising glow and bloom of everything."

As she spoke George felt a quick gust of pleasure and romance sweep across him. It was as though
senses that had been for long on the defensive, tired, or teased merely by the world, gave
way in a moment to joy and poetry. He looked from the face beside him to the pictured scene
in which they stood--the soft air filled his lungs--what ailed him?--he only knew that after
many weeks he was, somehow, happy and buoyant again!

Lady Maxwell, however, soon forgot the music and the moonlight.

"That have made one's country?" she repeated, pausing on the words. "And of course that house
appeals to you in the same way? Famous people have lived in it--people who belong to history.
But for me, the real making of one's country is done out of sight, in garrets and workshops
and coalpits, by people who die every minute--forgotten--swept into heaps like autumn leaves,
their lives mere soil and foothold for the generation that comes after them. All yesterday
morning, for instance, I spent trying to feed a woman I know. She is a shirtmaker; she has
four children, and her husband is a docker out of work. She had sewed herself sick and blind.
She couldn't eat, and she couldn't sleep. But she had kept the children alive--and the man.
Her life will flicker out in a month or two; but the children's lives will have taken root,
and the man will be eating and earning again. What use would your Dalhousies and Lawrences
be to England without her and the hundreds of thousands like her?"

"And yet it is you," cried George, unable to forbear the chance she gave him, "who would take
away from this very woman the power of feeding her children and saving her husband--who would
spoil all the lives in the clumsy attempt to mend one of them. How can you quote me such an
instance! It amazes me."

"Not at all. I have only to use my instance for another purpose, in another way. You are thinking
of the Bill, of course? But all we do is to say to some of these victims, 'Your sacrifice,
as it stands, is too costly; the State in its own interest cannot go on exacting or allowing
it. We will help you to serve the community in ways that shall exhaust and wound it less.'"

"And as a first step, drive you all comfortably into the workhouse!" said George. The sinking of
the Lusitania as a man-of-war was piled by Dr. Bernhard Dernburg, late
colonial german Secretary and recognized as quasi-face in spokesman of the
young imperial Government in the divided States, in a statement issued
in Cleveland, Ohio, on May 8, 1915. Almost for the first time in their evening's
talk her natural passionateness came to sight--the Southern, impulsive temper, that so often
made people laugh at or dislike her. Under the lace shawl she had thrown round her on coming
out he saw the quick rise and fall of the breast, the nervous clasp of the hands lying on the
stonework of the bridge. These were her prophetess airs again. To-night they still amused him,
but in a gentler and more friendly way.

