The look of abject fear was dying out of his face. The worst, he thought, was over. He drew
himself up, crossed his arms, and tried to meet Brian's reproachful eyes with confidence, but
in this attempt he was not successful. In spite of himself, the eyelids dropped until the long,
black lashes almost touched the smooth, olive cheek, across which passed a transient flush
of shame. This sign of feeling touched Brian; the lad was surely not hopelessly bad if he could
blush for his sins. But Richard went on ruthlessly.

"You need expect no further help from me. I own you as a relation no longer. You have disgraced
the name you bear. Don't let me see you again in my house." He was too indignant, too much
excited, to speak in anything but short, sharp sentences, each of which seemed more bitter
than the last. Richard Luttrell was little concerned for Hugo's welfare, much for the honour
of the family. "Go," he said, "at once, and I will not publish your shameful conduct to the
world. If you return to my house, if you seek to establish any communication with members of
my family, I shall not keep your secret."

"Speak for yourself, Richard," said his brother, warmly, "not for me. I hope that Hugo will
do better in time; and I don't mean to give him up. You must make an exception for me when
you speak of separating him from the family."

"I make no exception," said Richard.

Brian drew nearer to his brother, and uttered his next words in a lower tone.

"Think what you are doing," he said. "You will drive him to desperation, and, after all, he
is only a boy of nineteen. Quite young enough to repent and reform, if we are not too hard
upon him now. Do as you think fit for yourself and your own household, but you must not stand
in the way of what I can do for him, little though that may be."

"I stand to what I have said," answered Richard, harshly. "I will have no communication between
him and you." Then, folding his arms, he looked grimly and sardonically into Brian's face.
"I trust neither of you," he said. "We all know that you are only too easily led by those whom
you like to be led by, and he is a young reprobate. Choose for yourself, of course; I have
no claim to control you, only, if you choose to be friendly with him, I shall cut off the supplies
to you as well as to him, and I shall expose him publicly."

Brian took away the hand which, in the ardour of his pleading, he had laid upon Richard's arm.
Had it not been for Hugo's sake, he would have quitted the spot in dudgeon. He knew in his
heart that it was useless to argue with Richard in his present state of passion. But for Hugo's
sake he swallowed his resentment, and made one more trial.

"If he repents----" he began doubtfully, and never finished the sentence.

"I don't repent," said Hugo.

His voice was hoarse and broken, but insolently defiant. By a great effort of will he fixed
his haggard eyes full on Richard Luttrell's face as he spoke. Richard shrugged his shoulders.

"You hear?" he said, briefly to his brother.

"I hear," Brian answered, in a low, pained tone.

With an air of bravado Hugo stooped and picked up the pocket-book which still lay at his feet.
He weighed it in his hand, and then laughed aloud, though not very steadily.

"It is full still," he said. "It will be useful, no doubt. I am much obliged to you, Cousin
Richard."

The action, and the words accompanying it, shocked even Richard, who professed to think nothing
too bad for Hugo's powers. He tossed his head back and turned away with a contemptuous "Good
Heavens!" Brian walked for a few paces distance, and then stood still, with his back to his
cousin. Hugo glanced from one to the other with uneasiness, which he tried to veil by an assumption
of disdain, and dropped the purse furtively into his pocket. He was ill-pleased to see Richard
turn back with lowered eyebrows, and a look of stern determination upon his bearded face.

"Brian," said Luttrell, more quietly than he had yet spoken, "I think I see mother coming down
the road. Will you meet her and lead her away from the loch, without telling her the reason?
I don't wish her to meet this--this gentleman--again."

The intonation of his voice, the look that he bestowed upon Hugo at the words that he emphasised,
made the lad quiver from head to foot with rage. Brian walked away without turning to bestow
another glance or word on Hugo. It was a significant action, and one which the young fellow
felt, with a throb of mingled shame and hatred, that he could understand. He clenched his hands
until the dent of the nails brought blood, without knowing what he did; then made a step or
two in another direction, as if to leave the place. Richard's commanding voice made him pause.

"Stop!" said Luttrell. "Wait until I give you leave to go."

Hugo waited, with his face turned towards the shining waters of the loch. The purple mist amongst
the distant hills, the golden light upon the rippling water, the reddening foliage of the trees,
had never been more beautiful than they were that morning. But their beauty was lost upon Hugo,
whose mind was filled with hard and angry protests against the treatment that he was receiving,
and a great dread of the somewhat desolate future.

Richard Luttrell moved about restlessly, stopping short, now and then, to watch the figure
in black which he had discerned upon the road near the house. He saw Brian meet it; the two
stood and spoke together for a few minutes; then Brian gave his arm to his mother and led her
back to the house. When they were quite out of sight, Luttrell turned back to his cousin and
spoke again.

"Now that I have got Brian out of the way," he said, as he laid an iron hand on Hugo's arm,
"I am free to punish you as I choose. Mind, I would have spared you this if you had not had
the insufferable insolence to pick up that pocket-book in my presence. Since you were shameless
enough for that, it is plain what sort of chastisement you deserve. Take that--and that--and that!"

He lifted his hunting-crop as he spoke, and brought it down heavily on the lad's shoulders.
Hugo uttered a cry like that of a wild animal in pain, and fought with hands, feet, teeth even,
against the infliction of the stinging blows; but he fought in vain. His cousin's superior
strength mastered him from the beginning; he felt like an infant in Richard's powerful grasp.
Not until the storm of furious imprecations in which the lad at first vented his impotent rage
had died away into stifled moans and sobs of pain, did Richard's vengeance come to an end.
He flung the boy from him, broke the whip between his strong hands, and hurled the fragments
far into the water, then walked away to the house, leaving Hugo to sob his heart out, like
a passionate child, with face down in the short, green grass.

CHAPTER III.

HUGO LUTTRELL.

Hugo's Sicilian mother had transmitted to him a nature at once fierce and affectionate, passionate
and cunning. Half-child, half-savage, he seemed to be bound by none of the restraints that
civilised men early learn to place upon their instincts. He expressed his anger, his sorrow,
his love, with all the abandon that characterised the natives of those sunny shores where the
first years of his life were spent. Profoundly simple in his modes of feeling, he was yet dominated
by the habits of slyness and trickery which seem to be inherent in the truly savage breast.
He had the savage's love of secrecy and instinctive suspicion of his fellow-creatures, the
savage's swift passions and vindictiveness, the savage's innate difficulty in comprehending
the laws of honour and morality. It is possible to believe that, with good training from his
infancy, Hugo Luttrell might have developed into a trustworthy and straightforward man, shrinking
from dishonesty and cowardice as infamy worse than death; but his early education had been
of a kind likely to foster every vice that he possessed. His father, a cousin of the Luttrells
of Netherglen, after marrying a lovely Palermitan, and living for three years with her in her
native land, had at last tired of her transports of love and jealousy, and started upon an
exploring expedition in South Africa. Hugo was brought up by a mother who adored him and taught
him to loathe the English race. He was surrounded by flatterers and sycophants from his babyhood,
and treated as if he were born to a kingdom. When he was twelve years old, however, his mother
died; and his father, on learning her death some months afterwards, made it his business to
fetch the boy away from Sicily and bring him to England. But Hugh Luttrell, the father, was
already a dying man. The seeds of disease had been developed during his many journeyings; he
was far gone in consumption before he even reached the English shores. His own money was nearly
spent. There was a law-suit about the estates belonging to his wife's father, and it was scarcely
probable that they would devolve upon Hugo, who had cousins older than himself and dearer to
the Sicilian grandfather's heart. The dying man turned in his extremity to the young head of
the house, Richard Luttrell, then only twenty-one years of age, and did not turn in vain. Richard
Luttrell undertook the charge of the boy, and as soon as the father was laid in the grave,
he took Hugo home with him to Netherglen.

Richard Luttrell could hardly have treated Hugo more generously than he did, but it must be
confessed that he never liked the boy. The faults which were evident from the first day of
his entrance into the Luttrells' home, were such as disgusted and repelled the somewhat austere
young ruler of the household. Hugo pilfered, lied, cringed, stormed, in turn, like a veritable
savage. He was sent to school, and learned the wisdom of keeping his tongue silent, and his
evil deeds concealed, but he did not learn to amend his ways. In spite of his frequent misconduct,
he had some qualities which endeared him to the hearts of those whom he cared to conciliate.
His naïvete, his caressing ways, his beautiful, delicate face and appealing eyes, were not
without effect even upon the severest of his judges. Owing, perhaps, to these attributes rather
than to any positive merit of his own, he scrambled through life at school, at a tutor's, at
a military college, without any irreparable disgrace, his aptitude for getting into scrapes
being equalled only by his cleverness in getting out of them. Richard, indeed, had at times
received reports of his conduct which made him speak angrily and threaten condign punishment,
but not until this day, when the discovery of the lost bank-notes in Hugo's possession betokened
an absence of principle transcending even Richard's darkest anticipations, had any serious
breach occurred between the cousins. With some men, the fact that it was the first grave offence
would have had weight, and inclined them to be merciful to the offender, but Richard Luttrell
was not a merciful man. When he discovered wrong-doing, he punished it with the utmost severity,
and never trusted the culprit again. He had been known to say, in boasting accents, that he
did not understand what forgiveness meant. Forgiveness of injuries? Weakness of mind: that
was his opinion.

Hugo Luttrell's nature was also not a forgiving one. He lay upon the grass, writhing, sobbing,
tearing at the ground in an access of passion equally composed of rage and shame. He had almost
lost the remembrance of his own offence in resentment of its punishment. He had been struck;
he had been insulted; he, a Sicilian gentleman! (Hugo never thought of himself as an Englishman.)
He loathed Richard Luttrell; he muttered curses upon him as he lay on the earth, with every
bone aching from his cousin's blows; he wished that he could wipe out the memory of the affront
in Richard's blood. Richard would laugh at a challenge; a duel was not the English method of
settling quarrels. "I will punish him in another way; it is a vendetta!" said Hugo to himself,
choking down his passionate, childish sobs. "He is a brute--a great, savage brute; he does
not deserve to live!"

He was too much absorbed in his reflections to notice a footstep on the grass beside him, and
the rustle of a woman's dress. Some one had drawn near, and was looking pityingly, wonderingly,
down upon the slight, boyish form that still shook and quivered with irrepressible emotion.
A woman's voice sounded in his ear. "Hugo!" it said; "Hugo, what is the matter?"

With a start he lifted his head, showed a flushed, tear-swollen countenance for one moment,
and then hid it once more in his hands. "Oh, Angela, Angela!" he cried; and then the hysterical
passion mastered him once more. He could not speak for sobs.

She knelt down beside him and placed one hand soothingly upon his ruffled, black locks. For
a few minutes she also did not speak. She knew that he could not hear.

The world was not wrong when it called Angela Vivian a beautiful woman, although superfine
critics objected that her features were not perfect, and that her hair, her eyes, her complexion,
were all too colourless for beauty. But her great charm lay in the harmonious character of
her appearance. To deepen the tint of that soft, pale hair--almost ash-coloured, with a touch
of gold in the heavy coils--to redden her beautifully-shaped mouth, and her narrow, oval face,
to imagine those sweet, calm, grey eyes of any more definite shade would have been to make
her no longer the Angela Vivian that so many people knew and loved. But if fault were found
with her face, no exception could be taken to her figure and the grace with which she moved.
There, at least, she was perfect.

Angela Vivian was twenty-three, and still unmarried. It was said that she had been difficult
to please. But her choice was made at last. She was to be married to Richard Luttrell before
the end of the year. They had been playmates in childhood, and their parents had been old friends.
Angela was now visiting Mrs. Luttrell, who was proud of her son's choice, and made much of
her as a guest at Netherglen.

She spoke to Hugo as a sister might have done.

"What is it, dear?" she asked him, smoothing out his short, dark curls, as she spoke. "Can't
you tell me? Is it some great trouble?"

For answer he dragged himself a little closer to her, and bowed his hot forehead on one of
her hands, which she was resting on the ground, while she stroked his hair with the other.
The action touched her; she did not know why. His sobs were quietening. He was by no means
very manly, as English people understand manliness, but even he was ashamed to be found crying
like a baby over his woes.

"Dear Hugo, can you not tell me what is wrong?" said Angela, more seriously alarmed by his
silence than by his tears. She had a right to question him, for he had previously given her
as much of his confidence as he ever gave to anybody, and she had been a very good friend to
him. "Are you in some great trouble?"

"Yes," he said, in a voice so choked that she could hardly hear the word.

"And you have been in some scuffle surely. Your clothes are torn--you are hurt!" said she,
sympathetically. "Why, Hugo, you must have been fighting!" Then, as he gave her no answer,
she resumed in a voice of tender concern, "You are not really hurt, are you, dear boy? You
can move--you can get up? Shall I fetch anyone to help you?"

"No, no, no!" he cried, clutching at her dress, as though to stay her going. "Don't leave me.
I am not hurt--at least, I can walk and stand easily enough, though I have been hurt--set upon,
and treated like--like a dog by him----"

"By whom, Hugo?" said Angela, startled by the tenor of his incoherent sentences. "Who has set
upon you and ill-treated you?"

But Hugo hid his face. "I won't tell you," he said, sullenly.

There was a silence. "Can I do anything for you?" Angela asked at length, very gently.

"No."

She waited a little longer, and, as he made no further sign, she tried to rise. "Shall I go,
Hugo?" she said.

"Yes--if you like." Then he burst out passionately, "Of course, you will go. You are like everybody
else. You are like Richard Luttrell. You will do what he tells you. I am abandoned by everybody.
You all hate me; and I hate you all!"

Little as Angela understood his words, there was something in them that made her seat herself
beside him on the grass, instead of leaving him alone. "Dear Hugo," she said, "I have never
hated you."

"But you will soon."

"I see," said she, softly. "I understand you now. You are in trouble--you have been doing something
wrong, and you think that we shall be angry with you. Listen, Hugo, Richard maybe angry at
first, but he is kind as well as just. He will forgive you, and we shall love you as much as
ever. I will tell him that you are sorry for whatever it is, and then he will not refuse his
pardon."

"I don't want it," said Hugo, hoarsely. "I hate him."

"Hugo!"

"I hate him--I loathe him. You would hate him, too, if you knew him as well as I do. You are
going to marry him! Well, you will be miserable all your life long, and then you will remember
what I say."

"I should be angry with you if I did not know how little you meant this," said Angela, in an
unruffled voice, although the faint colour had risen to her cheeks, and her eyes looked feverishly
bright. "But you are not like yourself, Hugo; you are distressed about something. You know,
at least, that we do not hate you, and you do not hate us."

"I do not hate you," said Hugo, with emphasis.

He seized a fold of her dress and pressed it to his lips. But he said nothing more, and by-and-bye,
when she gently disengaged her gown from his hold, he made no opposition to her going. She
left him with reluctance, but she knew that Mrs. Luttrell would want her at that hour, and
did not like to be kept waiting. She glanced back when she reached the bend in the road that
would hide him from her sight. She saw that he had resumed his former position, with his head
bent upon his arms, and his face hidden.

"Poor Hugo!" she said to herself, as she turned towards the house.

Netherglen was a quaint-looking, irregular building of grey, stone, not very large, but considerably
larger than its appearance led one to conjecture, from the fact that a wing had been added
at the back of the house, where it was not immediately apparent. The peculiarity of this wing
was that, although built close to the house, it did not actually touch it except at certain
points where communication with the main part was necessary; the rooms on the outer wing ran
parallel for some distance with those in the house, but were separated by an interval of one
or two feet. This was a precaution taken, it was said, in order to deaden the noise made by
the children when they were in the nurseries situated in this part of the house. It had certainly
been an effectual one; it was difficult to hear any sound proceeding from these rooms, even
when one stood in the large central hall from which the sitting-rooms opened.

Angela was anxious to find Richard and ascertain whether or not he was really seriously incensed
against his cousin, but he was not to be found. A party of guests had arrived unexpectedly
for luncheon; Mrs. Luttrell and Brian were both busily engaged in entertaining them. Angela
glanced at Brian; it struck her that he was not in his usual good spirits. But she had no chance
of asking him if anything were amiss.

The master of the house arrived in time to take his place at the head of the table, and from
the moment of his arrival, Angela was certain that he had been, if he were not still, seriously
annoyed by some occurrence of the day. She knew his face very well, and she knew the meaning
of the gleam of his eye underneath the lowered eyebrows, the twitching nostril, and the grim
setting of his mouth. He spoke very little, and did not smile even when he glanced at her.
These were ominous signs.

"Where is Hugo?" demanded Mrs. Luttrell as they seated themselves at the table. "Have you seen
him, Brian?"

"Yes, I saw him down by the loch this morning," said Brian, but without raising his eyes.

"The bell had better be rung outside the house," said Mrs. Luttrell. "It can be heard quite
well on the loch."

"It is unnecessary, mother," said Richard, promptly. "Hugo is not coming in to lunch."

There was a momentary flash of his eye as he spoke, which convinced Angela that Hugo's disgrace
was to be no transient one. Her heart sank; she did not find that Richard's wrath was easy
to appease when once thoroughly aroused. Again she looked at Brian, and it seemed to her that
his face was paler and more sombre than she had ever seen it before.

The brothers were usually on such pleasant terms that their silence to each other during the
meal became a matter of remark to others beside Angela and Mrs. Luttrell. Had they quarrelled?
There was an evident coolness between them; for, on the only occasion on which they addressed
each other, Richard contemptuously contradicted his brother with insulting directness, and
Brian replied with what for him was decided warmth. But the matter dropped--perhaps each was
ashamed of having manifested his annoyance in public--and only their silence to each other
betrayed that anything was wrong.

The party separated into three portions after luncheon. Mrs. Luttrell and a lady of her own
age agreed to remain indoors, or to stroll quietly round the garden. Angela and two or three
other young people meant to get out the boat and fish the loch for pike. Richard and a couple
of his friends were going to shoot in the neighbouring woods. And, while these arrangements
were making, and everybody was standing about the hall, or in the wide porch which opened out
into the garden, Hugo's name was again mentioned.

"What has become of that boy?" said Mrs. Luttrell. "He is not generally so late. Richard, do
you know?"

"I'll tell you afterwards, mother," answered her son, in a low tone. "Don't say anything more
about him just now."

"Is there anything wrong?" said his mother, also lowering her voice. But he had turned away.

"Brian, what is it?" she asked, impatiently.

"For Heaven's sake, don't ask Brian," said Richard, looking back over his shoulder, "there
is no knowing what he may not require you to believe. Leave the story to me."

"I've no desire to tell it," replied Brian, moving away.

Luttrell's friends were already outside the hall door, lighting their cigars and playing with
the dogs. A keeper stood in the background, waiting until the party should start.

"Aren't you coming, Brian?" said one of the young men.

"I'll join you presently," said Brian. "I am going down to the loch first to get out the boat."

"What a splendid gun that is of yours!" said Archie Grant, the younger of the two men. "It
is yours, is it not? I saw it in the corner of the hall as I came in. You had it the other
day at the Duke's."

"It was not mine. It belongs to Hugo."

"Let me have a look at it again; it's an awfully fine one."

"Are you ready, Grant?" said Richard Luttrell, coming forward. "What are you looking for?"

"Oh, nothing; a gun," said the young fellow. "I see it's gone. I thought it was there when
I first came in; it's of no consequence."

"Not your own gun, I suppose?"

"No, no; I have my own. It was Hugo's."

"Yes; rather a fine one," said Richard, indifferently. "You're not coming, then?"--to Brian--"well,
perhaps it's as well." And he marched away without deigning to bestow another look or word
upon his brother.

Five minutes afterwards, Mrs. Luttrell and Angela encountered each other in a passage leading
to one of the upper rooms. No one was near. Mrs. Luttrell--she was a tall, handsome woman,
strikingly like Richard, in spite of her snow-white hair--laid her hand gently on Angela's
shoulder.

"Why do you look so pale, Angela?" she said. "Your eyes are red, child. Have you been crying
because those ill-bred lads of mine could not keep a still tongue in their heads at the luncheon-table,
but must needs wrangle together as they used to when they were just babies? Never you mind,
my dear; it's not Richard's fault, and Brian was always a troublesome lad. It will be better
for us all when he's away at his books in London."

She patted Angela's shoulder and passed on, leaving the girl more vexed than comforted. She
was sorry to see Mrs. Luttrell show the partiality for Richard which everyone accused her of
feeling. In the mother's eyes, Richard was always right and Brian wrong. Angela was just enough
to be troubled at times by this difference in the treatment of the brothers.

Brian went down to the loch ostensibly to get out the boat. In reality he wanted to see whether
Hugo was still there. Richard had told him of the punishment to which he had subjected the
lad; and Brian had been frankly indignant about it. The two had come to high words; thus there
had, indeed, been some foundation for the visitors' suspicions of a previous quarrel.

Hugo had disappeared; only the broken brushwood and the crushed bracken told of the struggle
that had taken place, and of the boy's agony of grief and rage. Brian resolved to follow and
find him. He did not like the thought of leaving him to bear his shame alone. Besides, he understood
Hugo's nature, and he was afraid--though he scarcely knew what he feared.

But he searched in vain. Hugo was not to be found. He did not seem to have quitted the place
altogether, for he had given no orders about his luggage, nor been seen on the road to the
nearest town, and Brian knew that it would be almost impossible to find him in a short space
of time if he did not wish to be discovered. It was possible that he had gone into the woods;
he was as fond of them as a wild animal of his lair. Brian took his gun from the rack, as an
excuse for an expedition, then sallied forth, scarcely hoping, however, to be successful in
his search.

He had not gone very far when he saw a man's form at some little distance from him, amongst
the trees. He stopped short and reconnoitered. No, it was not Hugo. That brown shooting-coat
and those stalwart limbs belonged rather to Richard Luttrell. Brian looked, shrugged his shoulders
to himself, and then turned back. He did not want to meet his brother then.

But Richard had heard the footstep and glanced round. After a moment of evident hesitation,
he quitted his position and tramped over the soft, uneven ground to his brother, who, seeing
that he had been observed, awaited his brother's coming with some uncertainty of feeling.

Richard's face had wonderfully cleared since the morning, and his voice was almost cordial.

"You've come? That's right," he said.

"Got anything?"

"Nothing much. I never saw young Grant shoot so wild. And my hand's not very steady--after
this morning's work." He laughed a little awkwardly and looked away. "That fellow deserved
all he got, Brian. But if you choose to see him now and then and be friendly with him, it's
your own look out. I don't wish to interfere."

It was a great concession from Richard--almost as much as an apology. Brian involuntarily put
out his hand, which Richard grasped heartily if roughly. Neither of them found it necessary
to say more. The mutual understanding was complete, and each hastily changed the subject, as
though desirous that nothing farther should be said about it.

If only some one had been by to witness that tacit reconciliation!

CHAPTER IV.

IN THE TWILIGHT.

It was already dusk under the thick branches of the wood, although the setting sun shone brilliantly
upon the loch. Luttrell's friends were to dine with him, and as dinner was not until eight
o'clock, they made rather a long circuit, and had some distance to return. Brian had joined
Archie Grant; the second visitor was behind them with the keeper; Richard Luttrell had been
accidentally separated from the others, and was supposed to be in front. Archie was laughing
and talking gaily; Brian, whose mind ran much upon Hugo, was somewhat silent. But even he was
no proof against Archie's enthusiasm, when the young fellow suddenly seized him by the arm,
and pointed out a fine capercailzie which the dogs had just put up.

Brian gave a quick glance to his companion, who, however, had handed his gun to the keeper
a short time before, and shook his head deprecatingly. Brian lifted his gun. It seemed to him
that something was moving amongst the branches beyond the bird, and for a moment he hesitated--then
pulled the trigger. And just as he touched it, Archie sprang forward with a cry.

"Don't fire! Are you blind? Don't you see what you are doing!"

But it was too late.

The bird flew away unharmed, but the shot seemed to have found another mark. There was the
sound of a sudden, heavy fall. To Brian's horror and dismay he saw that a man had been standing
amongst the brushwood and smaller trees just beyond the ridge of rising ground towards which
his gun had been directed. The head only of this man could have been visible from the side
of the bank on which Brian was standing; and even the head could be seen very indistinctly.
As Brian fired, it seemed to him, curiously enough, as if another report rang in his ears beside
that of his own gun. Was any one else shooting in the wood? Or had his senses played him false
in the horror of the moment, and caused him to mistake an echo for another shot? He had not
time to settle the question. For a moment he stood transfixed; then he rushed forward, but
Archie had been before him. The young man was kneeling by the prostrate form and as Brian advanced,
he looked up with a face as white as death.

"Keep back," he cried, scarcely knowing what he said. "Don't look--don't look, for a moment;
perhaps he'll open his eyes: perhaps he is not dead. Keep back!"

Dead! Brian never forgot the sick feeling of dread which then came over him. What had he done?
He did not hear Archie's excited words; he came hurriedly to the side of the man, who lay lifeless
upon the ground with his head on the young fellow's knee. Archie looked up at him with dilated
terrified eyes. And Brian stood stock still.

It was Richard who lay before him, dead as a stone. He had dropped without a cry, perhaps even
without a pang. There was a little purple mark upon his temple, from which a drop of black
blood had oozed. A half-smile still lingered on his mouth; his face had scarcely changed colour,
his attitude was natural, and yet the spectators felt that Death had set his imprint on that
tranquil brow. Richard Luttrell's day was over; he had gone to a world where he might perhaps
stand in need of that mercy which he had been only too ready to deny to others who had erred.

Archie's elder brother, Donald Grant, and the keeper were hurrying to the spot. They found
Brian on his knees beside the body, feeling with trembling hands for the pulse that beat no
longer. His face was the colour of ashes, but as yet he had not uttered a single word. Donald
Grant spoke first, with an anxious glance towards his brother.

