"Do you mean that you are willing to have her become friendly with him?" said Felix, his simple
clean mind horrified at the apparent indifference of Walter to Van Shaw's general looseness
of moral habits as they knew him in Burrton.

"Well, what can I do?" said Walter with some show of irritation. "Do you want me to go back
there, politely ask Van Shaw to stop the team, and say to Helen in his hearing: 'Dear sister,
the young man who is amusing you so finely this afternoon is the son of the greatest and most
notorious railroad wrecker in America. He himself is known in the school at Burrton as the
fastest and most vulgar youth in the institution. He drinks, he gambles, he is famous for the
number of indecent stories he can tell, he has his rooms adorned with pictures of variety actresses,
he has no high aims in life and never earned a cent since he was born, although he spends several
thousands of dollars every year which his father makes for him by ruining other people. In
short, sister, he is the last young man in all the universe with whom I, your brother, would
desire you to become acquainted. Therefore, I am going to ask Mr. Van Shaw to wait until with
the help of Mr. Bauer who knows all these facts about Mr. Van Shaw as well as I do, we transfer
you from this wagon to one of ours, although owing to our comparative poverty as measured by
this Pittsburgh outfit our wagons are not at all fitted to carry beautiful young ladies who
have sustained severe ankle sprains.' Do you want me to go over to Van Shaw and get off a speech
like that in order to save Helen?"

Bauer stared at Walter in solemn surprise. Then to Walter's surprise he said curtly:

"Every word of it is true."

"Yes, but you can't always say everything that's true. I wish for the life of me that Van Shaw
had never put in an appearance. It has spoiled the trip for me. Besides, you never can tell
what a girl will do. They're all romantic and above all, unreasonable. Van Shaw is good looking
and he's got money coming to him like the sand of this desert. And I don't forget a story Clifford
was telling us this morning. It was about some American girl very much like Helen, in a book,
who said to another girl that all she wanted of a husband in New York was a man to go down
town in the morning to earn enough money for her to spend up town in the afternoon."

"You don't mean to say that your sister has any such ambition as that, do you?" asked Felix
even slower than usual.

Walter looked at him curiously.

"You don't know Helen very well. She is very ambitious, and she has great respect for wealth.
She thinks money can do most anything in this old world. There's no telling what Helen will
do when it comes to marrying. I can't imagine her marrying a poor man."

"I would rather see her married to Touchiniteel than to Van Shaw!" said Bauer with a savage
outburst that accelerated his speech and changed his entire countenance.

Walter looked at Felix again, with the same curious regard.

"You seem to be a good deal disturbed over the matter, old man. What difference does it make
to you whether Helen marries Van Shaw or Touchiniteel?"

Bauer turned his face toward Walter with a look Walter never forgot. They were walking near
one of the old ruins of an abandoned village. Pieces of broken pottery and grinders were littered
over the ground. Felix motioned to Walter to go farther up into the mound where these ruins
were scattered.

"We can catch up with the teams. The folks will think we are looking for specimens," he said.
Walter anticipated Bauer's story as he sat down by him and in the midst of an ancient cliff
dwellers century old debris of a home, heard his chum's simple story. After it was told in
Bauer's slow but in this case intense manner, Walter said:

"I'm awfully sorry, old man; but I don't believe you stand a ghost of a chance with Helen."

"I don't suppose I do," assented Bauer humbly. "But you can see now why I feel as I do and
what it means to me to see a fellow like Van Shaw with her. It is not only torture to me. I
think some one ought to tell her."

"Tell her what?"

"About Van Shaw. Such men have no business to make love to pure girls like Helen."

Walter remonstrated.

"It's absurd, Felix. He isn't making love to her. Nonsense."

"He is!" said Bauer with a passionate burst that astonished Walter. "You do not know him as
well as I do. I am acquainted with Van Shaw's history through the Raines-Bracken affair. You
were not at Burrton when that happened. Nothing but the fear of losing some of old Van Shaw's
legacies to the school prevented young Van Shaw's expulsion at the time. I can't go into the
affair, Walter, but it gave me a loathing for Van Shaw that I never can overcome. It isn't
because I feel holier than thou or anything like that; God knows I am in need of his great
forgiveness; but it seems as wrong for us to leave your sister unacquainted with the real character
of Van Shaw as it would to let her play with one of these rattlesnakes we are going to see
in Oraibi the day after to-morrow, not knowing how deadly they were."

"Who'll tell her? Will you?"

"I? How can I do it. No. But it would seem quite the thing for you or your mother------"

"Mother doesn't know him," Walter interrupted somewhat curtly. "I don't see how I can say anything,"
Walter went on, with the caution many school boys feel about telling on others. "I really believe
Helen is capable of protecting herself. And one of the quickest ways to get a girl interested
in a man is to hint that he is not as good as he might be."

"That's your philosophy imbibed from your six best sellers," retorted Felix. Walter was a constant
novel reader. "I am going to have a talk with your mother about the whole affair. She will
know what to do."

"Will you tell her how you feel about Helen?"

Felix winced.

"She knows already."

"Oh, you have told her."

"No, she knows without my telling."

"Have you spoken to Helen?"

The colour swept up over Bauer's face.

"No, and I never will."

"Does she know?" Walter persisted.

"I looked at her once," faltered Bauer, and for the soul of him Walter could not help roaring
out at him.

As they rose to make their way to the wagons which had halted in a group to wait for them and
others who had fallen behind, Walter smote Bauer on the back.

"Courage, old man. The case is not all hopeless. If you have got as far as a look, that's progress.
What did Helen do?"

But Bauer drew into his reserve at this point and gravely refused to talk any more, and Walter
did not venture to insist. Only, as they were going to their wagons Bauer simply said, "I shall
tell your mother. It would not be right not to let her know."

"I don't know what mother can do about it," Walter replied dubiously.

"Mrs. Douglas is very wise." said Bauer. To that Walter made no answer, and they joined the
rest of the party without further words.

That night the two camps were pitched close together, and two fires burned like red specks
in the holes dug for the sagebrush and cedar roots. The chuck wagon in which Helen had been
riding was left standing close by the tent pitched for her mother and Mrs. Masters. She seemed
unusually cheerful and in answer to many inquiries assured all that she was resting easily
and was nearly free from pain.

After the camp meal was over and the desert grey of the soft night had begun to wrap itself
like an enveloping cloak about the two camps, as quietly and without warning of their presence
natives of that weird tract of earth began to appear. When the camp was made there was not
a hogan or any form of human habitation to be seen. But as Paul came back to the fire circle
after helping Masters pitch the last of the tents he was astonished to see a dozen Indians,
mostly young men, sitting on the sand close by. Masters spoke a word to them when he came up
to the fire and one of the men answered briefly.

"They have come all the way from Leupp," he said to Paul. "Walked the entire distance of sixty-seven
miles since sunrise."

"Do you know any of them?" Paul asked curiously.

"Yes, I have met one of the young men at Shungapavi. They are all going up to see the snake
dance. It's the only feature about the Hopi that appeals to them."

Miss Gray began to sing; it seemed to Walter who was sitting on the Navajo blanket near her
that he had never heard a voice of just that particular quality. It fitted into the surroundings
wonderfully. The dusky faces with the inevitable head-cloth of red or white were intent on
hers, and when the song ceased and Walter looked up and around he saw the members of the other
camp had come over and were standing or sitting about. Among the faces that were most noticeable
to Walter was Van Shaw's. He was standing almost directly opposite Miss Gray staring at her
with a strange look as if he were in doubt of the reality of Miss Gray's presence in this group.
It seemed to Walter that he was about to ask a question, but Masters, who at campfire was always
intent on bringing his Gospel message to the miscellaneous audience he might not see again
in many months, began to speak softly and affectionately.

The visitors from the outside world, including the party from Pittsburgh, could not understand
one word. It was not that that moved them. But Masters was gifted with a splendid voice in
full control. After he had been speaking ten minutes the figures about the little fire crept
closer up and narrowed the circle. Masters's face was eloquent. Tears rolled down his cheeks.
His gestures were wide and conveyed tender invitation. He spoke only a few moments more and
ended abruptly. Old Peshlekietsetti gently dropped a root of dowegie bush on the almost extinct
fire. The coals burst into a new flame and the light flared up again, showing to Felix, Helen's
wondering face framed in the opening fold of the wagon cover, while Mrs. Douglas close by her
was listening with sympathetic attention deepened into reverent surprise when Elijah Clifford
with his hands over his knees, his head bowed, prayed the evening prayer in a spirit that seemed
to proclaim another man from the one they had known during the day. And then another hymn in
which all were asked by Miss Gray to join. It all smote Felix with a feeling of wonder, it
was so new and unusual to his experience. But to Masters and Miss Gray and Clifford it was
the regular daily habit of their lives, as common and necessary to them as it was for the tourist
crowd looking on to close the day's life with a heavy dinner of seven courses and bridge whist
into the next morning. The last glimpse Walter had of Van Shaw as he moved off towards his
own wagons was the look he cast at Miss Gray again and then transferred to the canvas that
covered the chuck wagon where Helen and her mother sat talking over the strange events of the
day and its strange ending.

The next day was a severe experience for old desert travellers. The wind blew almost a gale.
The sand drifted like snow and the mid day meal was taken standing, everyone eating as best
he could, standing up, and making no attempt at the setting of a table or the formality of
a regular meal.

Late in the afternoon the grey rock of Oraibi showed through the whistling sand storm. The
wagons halted a little while by the Oraibi Wash before making the last miles through the difficult
sand hillocks at the foot of the cliff. And it was during this resting period that word came
to Masters from one of the Hopis who had a corn field on the Wash that recent rains at Oraibi
had so damaged the wagon trial leading to the top that it would be impossible to drive up.
All visitors and tourists must walk up the foot trail.

"That means that Helen can't get to the village. It will be a great disappointment," said Mrs.
Douglas.

It was on the tongue of Felix Bauer to suggest a plan for carrying Helen up the trail on one
of the camp cots when Van Shaw struck in.

"Pardon me, Mrs. Douglas, but it will be an easy thing to carry Miss Douglas up the trail on
a camp cot. Four of us can do it easily. Just put some tent poles under the sides and let the
two behind rest the poles on their shoulders and the two in front carry lower. In that way
I'm sure we can get Miss Douglas to the top without any inconvenience to her. It would be a
shame to come all this distance and eat all this dirt and miss the real thing after all."

"I don't want to miss it, of course," Helen faltered, looking at the group of young men, Walter,
Felix, Van Shaw and his two friends. "But I'm giving a lot of trouble and I'm afraid I'm a
nuisance."

"Then we will abate it by carrying you up there," said Van Shaw smiling, and Helen smiled back
at him, to Felix Bauer's rage. The whole thing was getting to be torture to him. And it all
intensified his determination to have a plain talk with Mrs. Douglas. The opportunity for it
was not easy. Mrs. Douglas was close by Helen nearly every moment. The camp duties were many
and the little company was of necessity grouped close together during the march. But Bauer
with his regular stock of dogged patience bided his time, sure it would come.

Camp was pitched that night at the foot of the Oraibi trail. Almost as soon as the wagons were
located Van Shaw came over to Mrs. Douglas carrying a cot.

"We've got an extra cot, Mrs. Douglas, and it won't take any time to fix that litter. We can
use some of our tent poles. I'll be glad to fix the thing up in the morning."

Mrs. Douglas thanked him quietly, and Helen expressed her gratitude.

"Oh, I wouldn't miss seeing the sight to-morrow for anything. Isn't it wonderful. That rock?
How weird it all is. Why, you can hardly tell where the rock begins and the houses leave off.
Just to think of seven or eight hundred people living up there all these centuries keeping
up these queer customs. And oh, look! What is that?"

A line of Indian women filed past up the trail about twenty-five feet apart, each one carrying
on her back a large clay water jar. They did not walk, they trotted along in a tireless steady
stride that spoke of centuries of training before them. The weight of the jars was not far
from thirty pounds.

Masters was passing Helen's wagon.

"That's woman's rights," he said gravely. "The water supply at Oraibi for centuries has been
jars on the backs of women. You must get used to thinking of seven hundred people dependent
on the daily trips of these women for all the water used on top of that rock for washing, cooking,
drinking. The women of Oraibi also have the right of building the houses the men live in. They
are the masons, while the men are the dressmakers. And there are people who would like to keep
these women perpetually at these tasks, they say it so 'picturesque.'"

"I was just going to say that myself," said Helen.

Masters smiled sadly. "Look at the mothers in Oraibi to-morrow. See what heathenism has done
for them." He passed on and Van Shaw who had stared at Masters as he spoke said to Helen--"They're
queer beggars, ain't they. But I don't believe in trying to change them. They belong here.
Might as well let 'em go on the way they've been going the last thousand years."

Helen looked at him with the first feeling she had had of possible distrust or dislike. Van
Shaw had spoken just as he really felt, and Helen saw a brief ways into his real character.
But as she looked again at the winding figures steadily trotting up the steep path, she had
a momentary doubt in her own mind as to the ultimate wisdom of Masters and Clifford in trying
to change the century old customs and habits of these desert people.

The day of the snake dance at Oraibi dawned strangely with a heavy shower.

"They're getting their answer to their prayer before they offer it," said Mr. Douglas to Clifford
as they sat up on their rugs and listened to the downpour on the tent.

"It has no effect on them," replied Clifford. "The snake dance means a prayer for rain for
the whole season. This rain the poor devils believe is an answer to their prayer made two years
ago. It's a little late in getting here but every drop of water between the two dances is so
accounted for."

By the middle of the forenoon it had cleared up and the two parties, increased by other tourist
crowds that had come in during the night, proceeded to climb the trail into Oraibi.

Van Shaw and his two friends in spite of the rain had got up early and finished making the
litter. When the moment came for Helen to be transferred to it there was an embarrassing halt
and the young men eyed one another. Felix was determined to be one of the carriers and Walter
was bound to be another. Van Shaw seemed to take for granted that as he was the one who had
suggested the affair he should be another. The two friends from Pittsburgh protested that they
would be desolate if not allowed to help.

Felix and Walter had gone to the head of the cot and seized the ends of the tent poles and
Van Shaw had stepped up to one of the poles at the other end when Esther, who perhaps sensed
some electricity in the air not caused by the recent thunder storm, said to Paul:

"You take hold with Mr. Van Shaw, Paul, and let Mr. Coleman and Mr. Calder take their turn
later. The trail looks very steep. I'm sure you will need to be relieved occasionally."

They started accordingly and Helen laughingly complimented her cavaliers as they picked up
the cot and after several trials discovered the most effective way of handling it.

The trail was bounded on one side by the Oraibi cemetery. The recent rains had washed some
of the bodies out of their graves made in the loose gravel of the steep hill. The trail wound
up sharply, disclosing at every turn some new marvel of the limitless expanse below. A Hopi
came out on a ledge far above them and chanted his song to the sun. Every step brought the
party nearer the queer built houses and the kivas with their projecting ladders. Other visitors
and tourists were on the trail in front and the progress was slow. Several stops were made
and changes occurred in the order of carriers, but when the top of the rock was reached, Masters,
who with Mrs. Masters and Miss Gray were close behind the litter, suddenly exclaimed, "There
is Talavenka!" pointing to the roof of the first house fronting the trail. A Hopi maiden, distinguished
by her whorl of hair as unmarried, stood up by the ladder, smiling down at the party.

Mrs. Douglas, who was walking with Mrs. Masters and who had during the trip heard of this one
Christian Hopi, went over to the foot of the ladder with her. Paul, who was tremendously interested
in all sorts of Indian lore, went into the house to examine some wedding baskets. The two Pittsburgh
young men suddenly found themselves surrounded with an Indian group selling curios, Walter
sauntered over in the direction of Miss Gray to ask her about the kivas. Felix stayed jealously
for a while by Helen who was simply carried away with the wonderful sights all about her, but
looking over in Mrs. Douglas's direction and seeing her for a moment alone, thought his opportunity
to speak to her ought to be seized at once, and went over towards her. And so it happened naturally
enough that for a moment Helen and Van Shaw were left together. The crowd of tourists, curious,
chattering, laughing, careless, flowed up the trail past them and began scattering over the
village seeking curios and poking their heads into the doors of the little houses. The sun
flamed out in a clear blue sky, the grey rock turned red under its hot stroke, and Helen, who
lay restfully on her litter which had been placed on top of one of the kivas, indulged her
romance loving spirit to the full as she lay there almost forgetful of Van Shaw's presence
until she was startled out of her day dream by his voice as he moved from where he had been
standing and came and sat down on the edge of the kiva near her.

CHAPTER XV

"MISS DOUGLAS, I haven't had half a chance to talk to you and you'll forgive me, won't you,
if I take advantage of this moment."

Helen was not in the slightest degree prepared for what Van Shaw was going to say. She was
conscious, as every beautiful young woman must be, of her charms and of the effect of them
on the young men she met, but she would have been a most remarkably vain and shallow person
if she had ever imagined for herself such a scene as the one now being acted out on the top
of the rock at Oraibi. The wildest stretch of her romantic temperament had never carried her
so far, and when she first began to really grasp the sense of what Van Shaw was saying she
was frightened and angry. At the same time there was a certain feeling of pride and exultation
of which she was vaguely ashamed.

Helen quietly began to say some simple thing in reply to Van Shaw's first remark when he hurriedly
went on, interrupting her:

"I won't have much time to speak now, but I'm going to risk everything, and tell you. I just
can't keep it to myself. It may sound awfully absurd to you,--I suppose it does, but I can't
help it. I'm just simply dead in love with you and I want you to know that I------"

"What!" said Helen sharply. She was so disturbed, so confused in her mind that Van Shaw's words
seemed unreal, as unreal as the kiva on which she was sitting or the changing groups of vivid
colour moving about on the tops of the houses.

"I can't help it," Van Shaw began again hurriedly, "You do not know how fascinating you are.
It has just swept me off my feet."

This time Helen understood what Van Shaw was saying and her face was flooded with a swift wave
of colour. And she said coldly:

"You have no right to talk to me like that. I will not listen." She turned her head and saw
her mother just coming out of Talavenka's house, standing at the foot of the ladder as if preparing
to go up with Mrs. Masters to the house roof.

"Mother!" she called, in a dim way thinking of nothing except her desire somehow to escape
a very embarrassing scene with Van Shaw. But there was so much noise made by the clattering
groups of tourists and the sudden arrival of new comers that Mrs. Douglas did not hear. Besides
at that moment Helen saw Bauer speaking to her and the next moment he and her mother had walked
slowly off together up the tortuous village street and were lost to sight in the crowd.

Van Shaw sat down on the kiva, and smiled a little. But his face was pale, and evidently for
one of the rare occasions in his life he was truly and desperately in earnest.

"You can't blame me, can you?"

"It's--it's simply impossible. It's out of the question. I have not known you two days."

"It doesn't take lighting two days to hit," said Van Shaw doggedly.

"I won't listen. I forbid your talking to me," said Helen haughtily.

"All right. But you can't forbid my thinking of you."

"But I can and I will refuse to be in your company!" said Helen. She was angry now at something
undefined in Van Shaw's manner. "If you do not leave me at once, I will try to leave you."
She actually made a movement to rise and put her foot on the ground at the edge of the kiva.
Van Shaw instantly got up and said quickly, "Of course I'll go. But I can't change my feelings
and never shall. Promise me one thing. Don't believe all the stories you may hear about me."

He had turned and walked up the street and Helen sank back with a strange feeling of relief
mingled with shame and again that other feeling--what was it, pride? The sense of power over
men? The feeling that her beauty was a gift or something else? She was frightened at it all
put together and felt irritated to be left alone by the rest of the party as she looked around
at the medley of old and new jumbled together in that Hopi village. And then the next reaction
left her nervous and somewhat hysterical as she tried to imagine such a thing in a book. She
actually laughed and the next moment Miss Gray and Walter appeared, at the edge of the kiva.
Miss Gray came running up to her.

"It's a shame to leave you here alone. How did that happen?"

"Oh, I don't know. I haven't been alone long. How strange everything is."

"Yes. And it gets stranger the more you see of it. Talavenka and her mother have asked us to
eat with them. They will have something ready in about an hour. You had better go in and rest
there a while. It's too hot out here. Where are your jinrikisha men?"

"Van Shaw just went up the street," said Walter looking closely at Helen.

"We don't need him," said Miss Gray. "Mr. Douglas, will you get Mr. Coleman and Mr. Calder?
There they are, over there. I'll help, and we'll take Helen over to Talavenka's."

Walter went over to call the Pittsburgh young men and Miss Gray and Helen were together a moment.
Helen suddenly asked:

"Do you know Mr. Van Shaw, Lucy? Didn't I hear you say to mother yesterday that he was related
distantly to your mother?"

"Yes," said Miss Gray slowly. "He is. What do you want to know?"

"Anything you can tell me."

Miss Gray looked troubled.

"Are you willing to tell me why you want to know?"

Helen hesitated. Walter and the young men were approaching.

"Give me your full confidence," Miss Gray smiled at Helen. "And I will know better what to tell."

"I will when there is time for it," Helen said and that was all she could say, before she was
carried into Talavenka's house.

Once inside the little square room with its corn grinding boxes taking up one whole side of
it there was so much of interest that Helen let everything else wait, as she watched the preparations
for the meal soon to be served. It would be several hours before the snake dance and in that
time there was no likelihood that Van Shaw would try to speak to her again. She was not afraid
of that, but she felt uneasy at the thought of some future scene, just what she was not clear
about, but it vexed and allured her until finally the surroundings compelled all her attention
and drove everything else out of her imagination.

Her father and mother, Mr. and Mrs. Masters and Miss Gray were invited with her to the mid
day meal in the house. The rest of the Tolchaco party ate out of doors on the platform by the
door. There was boiled mutton, red, white and blue wafer bread made of corn meal that made
one think he was eating wall paper, Elijah Clifford said, melons, green peas taken from a can
that had a Ft. Wayne, Ind., label on it, and to Mr. and Mrs. Douglas's astonishment some delicious
peaches brought by Talavenka's brother all the way from their little garden down by the Oraibi
Wash. In reply to questions from Mr. Masters, who used Talavenka as interpreter, Schewingoiashchi
said, as if it were an ordinary every day occurrence, that her oldest boy nineteen years old
had run twenty-five miles that forenoon to get the peaches from the orchard for their anticipated
guests.

About an hour before sunset they all went out to the village plaza to witness the great event
of the year in Oraibi. And as long as they live they will need no photographs or pictures to
make the weird scene vivid to them.

