But there are many things that point to absence of air on the moon. Even the photographs we
reproduce tell the same story. The edges of the shadows are all hard and black. If there had
been an appreciable atmosphere it would have scattered the sun's light on to the edges and
produced a gradual shading off such as we see on the earth. This relative absence of air must
give rise to some surprising effects. There will be no sounds on the moon, because sounds are
merely air waves. Even a meteor shattering itself to a violent end against the surface of the
moon would make no noise. Nor would it herald its coming by glowing into a "shooting star,"
as it would on entering the earth's atmosphere. There will be no floating dust, no scent, no
twilight, no blue sky, no twinkling of the stars. The sky will be always black and the stars
will be clearly visible by day as by night. The sun's wonderful corona, which no man on earth,
even by seizing every opportunity during eclipses, can hope to see for more than two hours
in all in a long lifetime, will be visible all day. So will the great red flames of the sun.
Of course, there will be no life, and no landscape effects and scenery effects due to vegetation.

The moon takes approximately twenty-seven of our days to turn once on its axis. So for fourteen
days there is continuous night, when the temperature must sink away down towards the absolute
cold of space. This will be followed without an instant of twilight by full daylight. For another
fourteen days the sun's rays will bear straight down, with no diffusion or absorption of their
heat, or light, on the way. It does not follow, however, that the temperature of the moon's
surface must rise enormously. It may not even rise to the temperature of melting ice. Seeing
there is no air there can be no check on radiation. The heat that the moon gets will radiate
away immediately. We know that amongst the coldest places on the earth are the tops of very
high mountains, the points that have reared themselves nearest to the sun but farthest out
of the sheltering blanket of the earth's atmosphere. The actual temperature of the moon's surface
by day is a moot point. It may be below the freezing-point or above the boiling-point of water.

The Mountains of the Moon

The lack of air is considered by many astronomers to furnish the explanation of the enormous
number of "craters" which pit the moon's surface. There are about a hundred thousand of these
strange rings, and it is now believed by many that they are spots where very large meteorites,
or even planetoids, splashed into the moon when its surface was still soft. Other astronomers
think that they are the remains of gigantic bubbles which were raised in the moon's "skin,"
when the globe was still molten, by volcanic gases from below. A few astronomers think that
they are, as is popularly supposed, the craters of extinct volcanoes. Our craters, on the earth,
are generally deep cups, whereas these ring-formations on the moon are more like very shallow
and broad saucers. Clavius, the largest of them, is 123 miles across the interior, yet its
encircling rampart is not a mile high.

The mountains on the moon (Fig. 16) rise to a great height, and are extraordinarily gaunt and
rugged. They are like fountains of lava, rising in places to 26,000 and 27,000 feet. The lunar
Apennines have three thousand steep and weird peaks. Our terrestrial mountains are continually
worn down by frost acting on moisture and by ice and water, but there are none of these agencies
operating on the moon. Its mountains are comparatively "everlasting hills."

The moon is interesting to us precisely because it is a dead world. It seems to show how the
earth, or any cooling metal globe, will evolve in the remote future. We do not know if there
was ever life on the moon, but in any case it cannot have proceeded far in development. At
the most we can imagine some strange lowly forms of vegetation lingering here and there in
pools of heavy gas, expanding during the blaze of the sun's long day, and frozen rigid during
the long night.

METEORS AND COMETS

We may conclude our survey of the solar system with a word about "shooting stars," or meteors,
and comets. There are few now who do not know that the streak of fire which suddenly lights
the sky overhead at night means that a piece of stone or iron has entered our atmosphere from
outer space, and has been burned up by friction. It was travelling at, perhaps, twenty or thirty
miles a second. At seventy or eighty miles above our heads it began to glow, as at that height
the air is thick enough to offer serious friction and raise it to a white heat. By the time
the meteor reached about twenty miles or so from the earth's surface it was entirely dissipated,
as a rule in fiery vapour.

Millions of Meteorites

It is estimated that between ten and a hundred million meteorites enter our atmosphere and
are cremated, every day. Most of them weigh only an ounce or two, and are invisible. Some of
them weigh a ton or more, but even against these large masses the air acts as a kind of "torpedo-net."
They generally burst into fragments and fall without doing damage.

It is clear that "empty space" is, at least within the limits of our solar system, full of
these things. They swarm like fishes in the seas. Like the fishes, moreover, they may be either
solitary or gregarious. The solitary bit of cosmic rubbish is the meteorite, which we have
just examined. A "social" group of meteorites is the essential part of a comet. The nucleus,
or bright central part, of the head of a comet (Fig. 19) consists of a swarm, sometimes thousands
of miles wide, of these pieces of iron or stone. This swarm has come under the sun's gravitational
influence, and is forced to travel round it. From some dark region of space it has moved slowly
into our system. It is not then a comet, for it has no tail. But as the crowded meteors approach
the sun, the speed increases. They give off fine vapour-like matter and the fierce flood of
light from the sun sweeps this vapour out in an ever-lengthening tail. Whatever way the comet
is travelling, the tail always points away from the sun.

A Great Comet

The vapoury tail often grows to an enormous length as the comet approaches the sun. The great
comet of 1843 had a tail two hundred million miles long. It is, however, composed of the thinnest
vapours imaginable. Twice during the nineteenth century the earth passed through the tail of
a comet, and nothing was felt. The vapours of the tail are, in fact, so attenuated that we
can hardly imagine them to be white-hot. They may be lit by some electrical force. However
that may be, the comet dashes round the sun, often at three or four hundred miles a second,
then may pass gradually out of our system once more. It may be a thousand years, or it may
be fifty years, before the monarch of the system will summon it again to make its fiery journey
round his throne.

THE STELLAR UNIVERSE

§ 1

The immensity of the Stellar Universe, as we have seen, is beyond our apprehension. The sun
is nothing more than a very ordinary star, perhaps an insignificant one. There are stars enormously
greater than the sun. One such, Betelgeux, has recently been measured, and its diameter is
more than 300 times that of the sun.

The Evolution of Stars

The proof of the similarity between our sun and the stars has come to us through the spectroscope.
The elements that we find by its means in the sun are also found in the same way in the stars.
Matter, says the spectroscope, is essentially the same everywhere, in the earth and the sun,
in the comet that visits us once in a thousand years, in the star whose distance is incalculable,
and in the great clouds of "fire-mist" that we call nebulæ.

In considering the evolution of the stars let us keep two points clearly in mind. The starting-point,
the nebula, is no figment of the scientific imagination. Hundreds of thousands of nebulæ, besides
even vaster irregular stretches of nebulous matter, exist in the heavens. But the stages of
the evolution of this stuff into stars are very largely a matter of speculation. Possibly there
is more than one line of evolution, and the various theories may be reconciled. And this applies
also to the theories of the various stages through which the stars themselves pass on their
way to extinction.

The light of about a quarter of a million stars has been analysed in the spectroscope, and
it is found that they fall into about a dozen classes which generally correspond to stages
in their evolution (Fig. 21).

The Age of Stars

In its main lines the spectrum of a star corresponds to its colour, and we may roughly group
the stars into red, yellow, and white. This is also the order of increasing temperature, the
red stars being the coolest and the white stars the hottest. We might therefore imagine that
the white stars are the youngest, and that as they grow older and cooler they become yellowish,
then red, and finally become invisible--just as a cooling white-hot iron would do. But a very
interesting recent research shows that there are two kinds of red stars; some of them are amongst
the oldest stars and some are amongst the youngest. The facts appear to be that when a star
is first formed it is not very hot. It is an immense mass of diffuse gas glowing with a dull-red
heat. It contracts under the mutual gravitation of its particles, and as it does so it grows
hotter. It acquires a yellowish tinge. As it continues to contract it grows hotter and hotter
until its temperature reaches a maximum as a white star. At this point the contraction process
does not stop, but the heating process does. Further contraction is now accompanied by cooling,
and the star goes through its colour changes again, but this time in the inverse order. It
contracts and cools to yellow and finally to red. But when it again becomes a red star it is
enormously denser and smaller than when it began as a red star. Consequently the red stars
are divided into two classes called, appropriately, Giants and Dwarfs. This theory, which we
owe to an American astronomer, H. N. Russell, has been successful in explaining a variety of
phenomena, and there is consequently good reason to suppose it to be true. But the question
as to how the red giant stars were formed has received less satisfactory and precise answers.

The most commonly accepted theory is the nebular theory.

THE NEBULAR THEORY

§ 2

Nebulæ are dim luminous cloud-like patches in the heavens, more like wisps of smoke in some
cases than anything else. Both photography and the telescope show that they are very numerous,
hundreds of thousands being already known and the number being continually added to. They are
not small. Most of them are immensely large. Actual dimensions cannot be given, because to
estimate these we must first know definitely the distance of the nebulæ from the earth. The
distances of some nebulæ are known approximately, and we can therefore form some idea of size
in these cases. The results are staggering. The mere visible surface of some nebulæ is so large
that the whole stretch of the solar system would be too small to form a convenient unit for
measuring it. A ray of light would require to travel for years to cross from side to side of
such a nebula. Its immensity is inconceivable to the human mind.

There appear to be two types of nebulæ, and there is evidence suggesting that the one type
is only an earlier form of the other; but this again we do not know.

The more primitive nebulæ would seem to be composed of gas in an extremely rarified form. It
is difficult to convey an adequate idea of the rarity of nebular gases. The residual gases
in a vacuum tube are dense by comparison. A cubic inch of air at ordinary pressure would contain
more matter than is contained in millions of cubic inches of the gases of nebulæ. The light
of even the faintest stars does not seem to be dimmed by passing through a gaseous nebula,
although we cannot be sure on this point. The most remarkable physical fact about these gases
is that they are luminous. Whence they derive their luminosity we do not know. It hardly seems
possible to believe that extremely thin gases exposed to the terrific cold of space can be
so hot as to be luminous and can retain their heat and their luminosity indefinitely. A cold
luminosity due to electrification, like that of the aurora borealis, would seem to fit the
case better.

Now the nebular theory is that out of great "fire-mists," such as we have described, stars
are born. We do not know whether gravitation is the only or even the main force at work in
a nebula, but it is supposed that under the action of gravity the far-flung "fire-mists" would
begin to condense round centres of greatest density, heat being evolved in the process. Of
course the condensation would be enormously slow, although the sudden irruption of a swarm
of meteors or some solid body might hasten matters greatly by providing large, ready-made centres
of condensation.

Spiral Nebulæ

It is then supposed that the contracting mass of gas would begin to rotate and to throw off
gigantic streamers, which would in their turn form centres of condensation. The whole structure
would thus form a spiral, having a dense region at its centre and knots or lumps of condensed
matter along its spiral arms. Besides the formless gaseous nebulæ there are hundreds of thousands
of "spiral" nebulæ such as we have just mentioned in the heavens. They are at all stages of
development, and they are visible to us at all angles--that is to say, some of them face directly
towards us, others are edge on, and some are in intermediate positions. It appears, therefore,
that we have here a striking confirmation of the nebular hypothesis. But we must not go so
fast. There is much controversy as to the nature of these spiral nebulæ. Some eminent astronomers
think they are other stellar universes, comparable in size with our own. In any case they are
vast structures, and if they represent stars in process of condensation, they must be giving
birth to huge agglomerations of stars--to star clusters at least. These vast and enigmatic
objects do not throw much light on the origin of our own solar system. The nebular hypothesis,
which was invented by Laplace to explain the origin of our solar system, has not yet met with
universal acceptance. The explanation offers grave difficulties, and it is best while the subject
is still being closely investigated, to hold all opinions with reserve. It may be taken as
probable, however, that the universe has developed from masses of incandescent gas.

THE BIRTH AND DEATH OF STARS

§ 3

Variable, New, and Dark Stars: Dying Suns

Many astronomers believe that in "variable stars" we have another star, following that of the
dullest red star, in the dying of suns. The light of these stars varies periodically in so
many days, weeks, or years. It is interesting to speculate that they are slowly dying suns,
in which the molten interior periodically bursts through the shell of thick vapours that is
gathering round them. What we saw about our sun seems to point to some such stage in the future.
That is, however, not the received opinion about variable stars. It may be that they are stars
which periodically pass through a great swarm of meteors or a region of space that is rich
in cosmic dust of some sort, when, of course, a great illumination would take place.

One class of these variable stars, which takes its name from the star Algol, is of special
interest. Every third night Algol has its light reduced for several hours. Modern astronomy
has discovered that in this case there are really two stars, circulating round a common centre,
and that every third night the fainter of the two comes directly between us and its companion
and causes an "eclipse." This was until recently regarded as a most interesting case in which
a dead star revealed itself to us by passing before the light of another star. But astronomers
have in recent years invented something, the "selenium-cell," which is even more sensitive
than the photographic plate, and on this the supposed dead star registers itself as very much
alive. Algol is, however, interesting in another way. The pair of stars which we have discovered
in it are hundreds of trillions of miles away from the earth, yet we know their masses and
their distances from each other.

The Death and Birth of Stars

We have no positive knowledge of dead stars; which is not surprising when we reflect that a
dead star means an invisible star! But when we see so many individual stars tending toward
death, when we behold a vast population of all conceivable ages, we presume that there are
many already dead. On the other hand, there is no reason to suppose that the universe as a
whole is "running down." Some writers have maintained this, but their argument implies that
we know a great deal more about the universe than we actually do. The scientific man does not
know whether the universe is finite or infinite, temporal or eternal; and he declines to speculate
where there are no facts to guide him. He knows only that the great gaseous nebulæ promise
myriads of worlds in the future, and he concedes the possibility that new nebulæ may be forming
in the ether of space.

The last, and not the least interesting, subject we have to notice is the birth of a "new star."
This is an event which astronomers now announce every few years; and it is a far more portentous
event than the reader imagines when it is reported in his daily paper. The story is much the
same in all cases. We say that the star appeared in 1901, but you begin to realise the magnitude
of the event when you learn that the distant "blaze" had really occurred about the time of
the death of Luther! The light of the conflagration had been speeding toward us across space
at 186,000 miles a second, yet it has taken nearly three centuries to reach us. To be visible
at all to us at that distance the fiery outbreak must have been stupendous. If a mass of petroleum
ten times the size of the earth were suddenly fired it would not be seen at such a distance.
The new star had increased its light many hundredfold in a few days.

There is a considerable fascination about the speculation that in such cases we see the resurrection
of a dead world, a means of renewing the population of the universe. What happens is that in
some region of the sky where no star, or only a very faint star, had been registered on our
charts, we almost suddenly perceive a bright star. In a few days it may rise to the highest
brilliancy. By the spectroscope we learn that this distant blaze means a prodigious outpour
of white-hot hydrogen at hundreds of miles a second. But the star sinks again after a few months,
and we then find a nebula round it on every side. It is natural to suppose that a dead or dying
sun has somehow been reconverted in whole or in part into a nebula. A few astronomers think
that it may have partially collided with another star, or approached too closely to another,
with the result we described on an earlier page. The general opinion now is that a faint or
dead star had rushed into one of those regions of space in which there are immense stretches
of nebulous matter, and been (at least in part) vaporised by the friction.

But the difficulties are considerable, and some astronomers prefer to think that the blazing
star may merely have lit up a dark nebula which already existed. It is one of those problems
on which speculation is most tempting but positive knowledge is still very incomplete. We may
be content, even proud, that already we can take a conflagration that has occurred more than
a thousand trillion miles away and analyse it positively into an outflame of glowing hydrogen
gas at so many miles a second.

THE SHAPE OF OUR UNIVERSE

§ 4

Our Universe a Spiral Nebula

What is the shape of our universe, and what are its dimensions? This is a tremendous question
to ask. It is like asking an intelligent insect, living on a single leaf in the midst of a
great Brazilian forest, to say what is the shape and size of the forest. Yet man's ingenuity
has proved equal to giving an answer even to this question, and by a method exactly similar
to that which would be adopted by the insect. Suppose, for instance, that the forest was shaped
as an elongated oval, and the insect lived on a tree near the centre of the oval. If the trees
were approximately equally spaced from one another they would appear much denser along the
length of the oval than across its width. This is the simple consideration that has guided
astronomers in determining the shape of our stellar universe. There is one direction in the
heavens along which the stars appear denser than in the directions at right angles to it. That
direction is the direction in which we look towards the Milky Way. If we count the number of
stars visible all over the heavens, we find they become more and more numerous as we approach
the Milky Way. As we go farther and farther from the Milky Way the stars thin out until they
reach a maximum sparseness in directions at right angles to the plane of the Milky Way. We
may consider the Milky Way to form, as it were, the equator of our system, and the line at
right angles to point to the north and south poles.

Our system, in fact, is shaped something like a lens, and our sun is situated near the centre
of this lens. In the remoter part of this lens, near its edge, or possibly outside it altogether,
lies the great series of star clouds which make up the Milky Way. All the stars are in motion
within this system, but the very remarkable discovery has been made that these motions are
not entirely random. The great majority of the stars whose motions can be measured fall into
two groups drifting past one another in opposite directions. The velocity of one stream relative
to the other is about twenty-five miles per second. The stars forming these two groups are
thoroughly well mixed; it is not a case of an inner stream going one way and an outer stream
the other. But there are not quite as many stars going one way as the other. For every two
stars in one stream there are three in the other. Now, as we have said, some eminent astronomers
hold that the spiral nebulæ are universes like our own, and if we look at the two photographs
(Figs. 25 and 26) we see that these spirals present features which, in the light of what we
have just said about our system, are very remarkable. The nebula in Coma Berenices is a spiral
edge-on to us, and we see that it has precisely the lens-shaped middle and the general flattened
shape that we have found in our own system. The nebula in Canes Venatici is a spiral facing
towards us, and its shape irresistibly suggests motions along the spiral arms. This motion,
whether it is towards or away from the central, lens-shaped portion, would cause a double streaming
motion in that central portion of the kind we have found in our own system. Again, and altogether
apart from these considerations, there are good reasons for supposing our Milky Way to possess
a double-armed spiral structure. And the great patches of dark absorbing matter which are known
to exist in the Milky Way (see Fig. 22) would give very much the mottled appearance we notice
in the arms (which we see edge-on) of the nebula in Coma Berenices. The hypothesis, therefore,
that our universe is a spiral nebula has much to be said for it. If it be accepted it greatly
increases our estimate of the size of the material universe. For our central, lens-shaped system
is calculated to extend towards the Milky Way for more than twenty thousand times a million
million miles, and about a third of this distance towards what we have called the poles. If,
as we suppose, each spiral nebula is an independent stellar universe comparable in size with
our own, then, since there are hundreds of thousands of spiral nebulæ, we see that the size
of the whole material universe is indeed beyond our comprehension.

 CENTAURI                4.29 |
 | VEGA                           34.7  |
 ||
 |                                      |
 | SMALLER MAGELLANIC CLOUD   32,600[A] |
 | GREAT CLUSTER IN HERCULES 108,600[A] |
 ||

[A] ESTIMATED

FIG. 28

The above distances are merely approximate and are subject to further revision. A "light-year"
is the distance that light, travelling at the rate of 186,000 miles per second, would cover
in one year.]

In this simple outline we have not touched on some of the more debatable questions that engage
the attention of modern astronomers. Many of these questions have not yet passed the controversial
stage; out of these will emerge the astronomy of the future. But we have seen enough to convince
us that, whatever advances the future holds in store, the science of the heavens constitutes
one of the most important stones in the wonderful fabric of human knowledge.

ASTRONOMICAL INSTRUMENTS

§ 1

The Telescope

The instruments used in modern astronomy are amongst the finest triumphs of mechanical skill
in the world. In a great modern observatory the different instruments are to be counted by
the score, but there are two which stand out pre-eminent as the fundamental instruments of
modern astronomy. These instruments are the telescope and the spectroscope, and without them
astronomy, as we know it, could not exist.

There is still some dispute as to where and when the first telescope was constructed; as an
astronomical instrument, however, it dates from the time of the great Italian scientist Galileo,
who, with a very small and imperfect telescope of his own invention, first observed the spots
on the sun, the mountains of the moon, and the chief four satellites of Jupiter. A good pair
of modern binoculars is superior to this early instrument of Galileo's, and the history of
telescope construction, from that primitive instrument to the modern giant recently erected
on Mount Wilson, California, is an exciting chapter in human progress. But the early instruments
have only an historic interest: the era of modern telescopes begins in the nineteenth century.

During the last century telescope construction underwent an unprecedented development. An immense
amount of interest was taken in the construction of large telescopes, and the different countries
of the world entered on an exciting race to produce the most powerful possible instruments.
Besides this rivalry of different countries there was a rivalry of methods. The telescope developed
along two different lines, and each of these two types has its partisans at the present day.
These types are known as refractors and reflectors, and it is necessary to mention, briefly,
the principles employed in each. The refractor is the ordinary, familiar type of telescope.
It consists, essentially, of a large lens at one end of a tube, and a small lens, called the
eye-piece, at the other. The function of the large lens is to act as a sort of gigantic eye.
It collects a large amount of light, an amount proportional to its size, and brings this light
to a focus within the tube of the telescope. It thus produces a small but bright image, and
the eye-piece magnifies this image. In the reflector, instead of a large lens at the top of
the tube, a large mirror is placed at the bottom. This mirror is so shaped as to reflect the
light that falls on it to a focus, whence the light is again led to an eye-piece. Thus the
refractor and the reflector differ chiefly in their manner of gathering light. The powerfulness
of the telescope depends on the size of the light-gatherer. A telescope with a lens four inches
in diameter is four times as powerful as the one with a lens two inches in diameter, for the
amount of light gathered obviously depends on the area of the lens, and the area varies as
the square of the diameter.

The largest telescopes at present in existence are reflectors. It is much easier to construct
a very large mirror than to construct a very large lens; it is also cheaper. A mirror is more
likely to get out of order than is a lens, however, and any irregularity in the shape of a
mirror produces a greater distorting effect than in a lens. A refractor is also more convenient
to handle than is a reflector. For these reasons great refractors are still made, but the largest
of them, the great Yerkes' refractor, is much smaller than the greatest reflector, the one
on Mount Wilson, California. The lens of the Yerkes' refractor measures three feet four inches
in diameter, whereas the Mount Wilson reflector has a diameter of no less than eight feet four
inches.

But there is a device whereby the power of these giant instruments, great as it is, can be
still further heightened. That device is the simple one of allowing the photographic plate
to take the place of the human eye. Nowadays an astronomer seldom spends the night with his
eye glued to the great telescope. He puts a photographic plate there. The photographic plate
has this advantage over the eye, that it builds up impressions. However long we stare at an
object too faint to be seen, we shall never see it. With the photographic plate, however, faint
impressions go on accumulating. As hour after hour passes, the star which was too faint to
make a perceptible impression on the plate goes on affecting it until finally it makes an impression
which can be made visible. In this way the photographic plate reveals to us phenomena in the
heavens which cannot be seen even through the most powerful telescopes.

Telescopes of the kind we have been discussing, telescopes for exploring the heavens, are mounted
equatorially; that is to say, they are mounted on an inclined pillar parallel to the axis of
the earth so that, by rotating round this pillar, the telescope is enabled to follow the apparent
motion of a star due to the rotation of the earth. This motion is effected by clock-work, so
that, once adjusted on a star, and the clock-work started, the telescope remains adjusted on
that star for any length of time that is desired. But a great official observatory, such as
Greenwich Observatory or the Observatory at Paris, also has transit instruments, or telescopes
smaller than the equatorials and without the same facility of movement, but which, by a number
of exquisite refinements, are more adapted to accurate measurements. It is these instruments
which are chiefly used in the compilation of the Nautical Almanac. They do not follow the apparent
motions of the stars. Stars are allowed to drift across the field of vision, and as each star
crosses a small group of parallel wires in the eye-piece its precise time of passage is recorded.
Owing to their relative fixity of position these instruments can be constructed to record the
positions of stars with much greater accuracy than is possible to the more general and flexible
mounting of equatorials. The recording of transit is comparatively dry work; the spectacular
element is entirely absent; stars are treated merely as mathematical points. But these observations
furnish the very basis of modern mathematical astronomy, and without them such publications
as the Nautical Almanac and the Connaissance du Temps would be robbed of the greater part of
their importance.

§ 2

The Spectroscope

We have already learnt something of the principles of the spectroscope, the instrument which,
by making it possible to learn the actual constitution of the stars, has added a vast new domain
to astronomy. In the simplest form of this instrument the analysing portion consists of a single
prism. Unless the prism is very large, however, only a small degree of dispersion is obtained.
It is obviously desirable, for accurate analytical work, that the dispersion--that is, the
separation of the different parts of the spectrum--should be as great as possible. The dispersion
can be increased by using a large number of prisms, the light emerging from the first prism,
entering the second, and so on. In this way each prism produces its own dispersive effect and,
when a number of prisms are employed, the final dispersion is considerable. A considerable
amount of light is absorbed in this way, however, so that unless our primary source of light
is very strong, the final spectrum will be very feeble and hard to decipher.

Another way of obtaining considerable dispersion is by using a diffraction grating instead
of a prism. This consists essentially of a piece of glass on which lines are ruled by a diamond
point. When the lines are sufficiently close together they split up light falling on them into
its constituents and produce a spectrum. The modern diffraction grating is a truly wonderful
piece of work. It contains several thousands of lines to the inch, and these lines have to
be spaced with the greatest accuracy. But in this instrument, again, there is a considerable
loss of light.

We have said that every substance has its own distinctive spectrum, and it might be thought
that, when a list of the spectra of different substances has been prepared, spectrum analysis
would become perfectly straightforward. In practice, however, things are not quite so simple.
The spectrum emitted by a substance is influenced by a variety of conditions. The pressure,
the temperature, the state of motion of the object we are observing, all make a difference,
and one of the most laborious tasks of the modern spectroscopist is to disentangle these effects
from one another. Simple as it is in its broad outlines, spectroscopy is, in reality, one of
the most intricate branches of modern science.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

(The following list of books may be useful to readers wishing to pursue further the study of
Astronomy.)

 BALL, The Story of the Heavens.
 BALL, The Story of the Sun.
 FORBES, History of Astronomy.
 HINCKS, Astronomy.
 KIPPAX, Call of the Stars.
 LOWELL, Mars and Its Canals.
 LOWELL, Evolution of Worlds.
 MCKREADY, A Beginner's Star-Book.
 NEWCOMB, Popular Astronomy.
 NEWCOMB, The Stars: A Study of the Universe.
 OLCOTT, Field Book of the Stars.
 PRICE, Essence of Astronomy.
 SERVISS, Curiosities of the Skies.
 WEBB, Celestial Objects for Common Telescopes.
 YOUNG, Text-Book of General Astronomy.

II

THE STORY OF EVOLUTION

INTRODUCTORY

THE BEGINNING OF THE EARTH--MAKING A HOME FOR LIFE--THE FIRST LIVING CREATURES

§ 1

The Evolution-idea is a master-key that opens many doors. It is a luminous interpretation of
the world, throwing the light of the past upon the present. Everything is seen to be an antiquity,
with a history behind it--a natural history, which enables us to understand in some measure
how it has come to be as it is. We cannot say more than "understand in some measure," for while
the fact of evolution is certain, we are only beginning to discern the factors that have been
at work.

The evolution-idea is very old, going back to some of the Greek philosophers, but it is only
in modern times that it has become an essential part of our mental equipment. It is now an
everyday intellectual tool. It was applied to the origin of the solar system and to the making
of the earth before it was applied to plants and animals; it was extended from these to man
himself; it spread to language, to folk-ways, to institutions. Within recent years the evolution-idea
has been applied to the chemical elements, for it appears that uranium may change into radium,
that radium may produce helium, and that lead is the final stable result when the changes of
uranium are complete. Perhaps all the elements may be the outcome of an inorganic evolution.
Not less important is the extension of the evolution-idea to the world within as well as to
the world without. For alongside of the evolution of bodies and brains is the evolution of
feelings and emotions, ideas and imagination.

Organic evolution means that the present is the child of the past and the parent of the future.
It is not a power or a principle; it is a process--a process of becoming. It means that the
present-day animals and plants and all the subtle inter-relations between them have arisen
in a natural knowable way from a preceding state of affairs on the whole somewhat simpler,
and that again from forms and inter-relations simpler still, and so on backwards and backwards
for millions of years till we lose all clues in the thick mist that hangs over life's beginnings.

Our solar system was once represented by a nebula of some sort, and we may speak of the evolution
of the sun and the planets. But since it has been the same material throughout that has changed
in its distribution and forms, it might be clearer to use some word like genesis. Similarly,
our human institutions were once very different from what they are now, and we may speak of
the evolution of government or of cities. But Man works with a purpose, with ideas and ideals
in some measure controlling his actions and guiding his achievements, so that it is probably
clearer to keep the good old word history for all processes of social becoming in which man
has been a conscious agent. Now between the genesis of the solar system and the history of
civilisation there comes the vast process of organic evolution. The word development should
be kept for the becoming of the individual, the chick out of the egg, for instance.

Organic evolution is a continuous natural process of racial change, by successive steps in
a definite direction, whereby distinctively new individualities arise, take root, and flourish,
sometimes alongside of, and sometimes, sooner or later, in place of, the originative stock.
Our domesticated breeds of pigeons and poultry are the results of evolutionary change whose
origins are still with us in the Rock Dove and the Jungle Fowl; but in most cases in Wild Nature
the ancestral stocks of present-day forms are long since extinct, and in many cases they are
unknown. Evolution is a long process of coming and going, appearing and disappearing, a long-drawn-out
sublime process like a great piece of music.

§ 2

The Beginning of the Earth

When we speak the language of science we cannot say "In the beginning," for we do not know
of and cannot think of any condition of things that did not arise from something that went
before. But we may qualify the phrase, and legitimately inquire into the beginning of the earth
within the solar system. If the result of this inquiry is to trace the sun and the planets
back to a nebula we reach only a relative beginning. The nebula has to be accounted for. And
even before matter there may have been a pre-material world. If we say, as was said long ago,
"In the beginning was Mind," we may be expressing or trying to express a great truth, but we
have gone BEYOND SCIENCE.

The Nebular Hypothesis

One of the grandest pictures that the scientific mind has ever thrown upon the screen is that
of the Nebular Hypothesis. According to Laplace's famous form of this theory (1796), the solar
system was once a gigantic glowing mass, spinning slowly and uniformly around its centre. As
the incandescent world-cloud of gas cooled and its speed of rotation increased the shrinking
mass gave off a separate whirling ring, which broke up and gathered together again as the first
and most distant planet. The main mass gave off another ring and another till all the planets,
including the earth, were formed. The central mass persisted as the sun.

Laplace spoke of his theory, which Kant had anticipated forty-one years before, with scientific
caution: "conjectures which I present with all the distrust which everything not the result
of observation or of calculation ought to inspire." Subsequent research justified his distrust,
for it has been shown that the original nebula need not have been hot and need not have been
gaseous. Moreover, there are great difficulties in Laplace's theory of the separation of successive
rings from the main mass, and of the condensation of a whirling gaseous ring into a planet.

So it has come about that the picture of a hot gaseous nebula revolving as a unit body has
given place to other pictures. Thus Sir Norman Lockyer pointed out (1890) that the earth is
gathering to itself millions of meteorites every day; this has been going on for millions of
years; in distant ages the accretion may have been vastly more rapid and voluminous; and so
the earth has grown! Now the meteoritic contributions are undoubted, but they require a centre
to attract them, and the difficulty is to account for the beginning of a collecting centre
or planetary nucleus. Moreover, meteorites are sporadic and erratic, scattered hither and thither
rather than collecting into unit-bodies. As Professor Chamberlin says, "meteorites have rather
the characteristics of the wreckage of some earlier organisation than of the parentage of our
planetary system." Several other theories have been propounded to account for the origin of
the earth, but the one that has found most favour in the eyes of authorities is that of Chamberlin
and Moulton. According to this theory a great nebular mass condensed to form the sun, from
which under the attraction of passing stars planet after planet, the earth included, was heaved
off in the form of knotted spiral nebulæ, like many of those now observed in the heavens.

Of great importance were the "knots," for they served as collecting centres drawing flying
matter into their clutches. Whatever part of the primitive bolt escaped and scattered was drawn
out into independent orbits round the sun, forming the "planetesimals" which behave like minute
planets. These planetesimals formed the food on which the knots subsequently fed.

The Growth of the Earth

It has been calculated that the newborn earth--the "earth-knot" of Chamberlin's theory--had
a diameter of about 5,500 miles. But it grew by drawing planetesimals into itself until it
had a diameter of over 8,100 miles at the end of its growing period. Since then it has shrunk,
by periodic shrinkages which have meant the buckling up of successive series of mountains,
and it has now a diameter of 7,918 miles. But during the shrinking the earth became more varied.

A sort of slow boiling of the internally hot earth often forced molten matter through the cold
outer crust, and there came about a gradual assortment of lighter materials nearer the surface
and heavier materials deeper down. The continents are built of the lighter materials, such
as granites, while the beds of the great oceans are made of the heavier materials such as basalts.
In limited areas land has often become sea, and sea has often given place to land, but the
probability is that the distinction of the areas corresponding to the great continents and
oceans goes back to a very early stage.

The lithosphere is the more or less stable crust of the earth, which may have been, to begin
with, about fifty miles in thickness. It seems that the young earth had no atmosphere, and
that ages passed before water began to accumulate on its surface--before, in other words, there
was any hydrosphere. The water came from the earth itself, to begin with, and it was long before
there was any rain dissolving out saline matter from the exposed rocks and making the sea salt.
The weathering of the high grounds of the ancient crust by air and water furnished the material
which formed the sandstones and mudstones and other sedimentary rocks, which are said to amount
to a thickness of over fifty miles in all.

§ 3

Making a Home for Life

It is interesting to inquire how the callous, rough-and-tumble conditions of the outer world
in early days were replaced by others that allowed of the germination and growth of that tender
plant we call LIFE. There are very tough living creatures, but the average organism is ill
suited for violence. Most living creatures are adapted to mild temperatures and gentle reactions.
Hence the fundamental importance of the early atmosphere, heavy with planetesimal dust, in
blanketing the earth against intensities of radiance from without, as Chamberlin says, and
inequalities of radiance from within. This was the first preparation for life, but it was an
atmosphere without free oxygen. Not less important was the appearance of pools and lakelets,
of lakes and seas. Perhaps the early waters covered the earth. And water was the second preparation
for life--water, that can dissolve a larger variety of substances in greater concentration
than any other liquid; water, that in summer does not readily evaporate altogether from a pond,
nor in winter freeze throughout its whole extent; water, that is such a mobile vehicle and
such a subtle cleaver of substances; water, that forms over 80 per cent. of living matter itself.

Of great significance was the abundance of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen (in the form of carbonic
acid and water) in the atmosphere of the cooling earth, for these three wonderful elements
have a unique ensemble of properties--ready to enter into reactions and relations, making great
diversity and complexity possible, favouring the formation of the plastic and permeable materials
that build up living creatures. We must not pursue the idea, but it is clear that the stones
and mortar of the inanimate world are such that they built a friendly home for life.

Origin of Living Creatures upon the Earth

During the early chapters of the earth's history, no living creature that we can imagine could
possibly have lived there. The temperature was too high; there was neither atmosphere nor surface
water. Therefore it follows that at some uncertain, but inconceivably distant date, living
creatures appeared upon the earth. No one knows how, but it is interesting to consider possibilities.

From ancient times it has been a favourite answer that the dust of the earth may have become
living in a way which is outside scientific description. This answer forecloses the question,
and it is far too soon to do that. Science must often say "Ignoramus": Science should be slow
to say "Ignorabimus."

A second position held by Helmholtz, Lord Kelvin, and others, suggests that minute living creatures
may have come to the earth from elsewhere, in the cracks of a meteorite or among cosmic dust.
It must be remembered that seeds can survive prolonged exposure to very low temperatures; that
spores of bacteria can survive high temperature; that seeds of plants and germs of animals
in a state of "latent life" can survive prolonged drought and absence of oxygen. It is possible,
according to Berthelot, that as long as there is not molecular disintegration vital activities
may be suspended for a time, and may afterwards recommence when appropriate conditions are
restored. Therefore, one should be slow to say that a long journey through space is impossible.
The obvious limitation of Lord Kelvin's theory is that it only shifts the problem of the origin
of organisms (i.e. living creatures) from the earth to elsewhere.

The third answer is that living creatures of a very simple sort may have emerged on the earth's
surface from not-living material, e.g. from some semi-fluid carbon compounds activated by ferments.
The tenability of this view is suggested by the achievements of the synthetic chemists, who
are able artificially to build up substances such as oxalic acid, indigo, salicylic acid, caffeine,
and grape-sugar. We do not know, indeed, what in Nature's laboratory would take the place of
the clever synthetic chemist, but there seems to be a tendency to complexity. Corpuscles form
atoms, atoms form molecules, small molecules large ones.

Various concrete suggestions have been made in regard to the possible origin of living matter,
which will be dealt with in a later chapter. So far as we know of what goes on to-day, there
is no evidence of spontaneous generation; organisms seem always to arise from pre-existing
organisms of the same kind; where any suggestion of the contrary has been fancied, there have
been flaws in the experimenting. But it is one thing to accept the verdict "omne vivum e vivo"
as a fact to which experiment has not yet discovered an exception and another thing to maintain
that this must always have been true or must always remain true.

If the synthetic chemists should go on surpassing themselves, if substances like white of egg
should be made artificially, and if we should get more light on possible steps by which simple
living creatures may have arisen from not-living materials, this would not greatly affect our
general outlook on life, though it would increase our appreciation of what is often libelled
as "inert" matter. If the dust of the earth did naturally give rise very long ago to living
creatures, if they are in a real sense born of her and of the sunshine, then the whole world
becomes more continuous and more vital, and all the inorganic groaning and travailing becomes
more intelligible.

§ 4

The First Organisms upon the Earth

We cannot have more than a speculative picture of the first living creatures upon the earth
or, rather, in the waters that covered the earth. A basis for speculation is to be found, however,
in the simplest creatures living to-day, such as some of the bacteria and one-celled animalcules,
especially those called Protists, which have not taken any very definite step towards becoming
either plants or animals. No one can be sure, but there is much to be said for the theory that
the first creatures were microscopic globules of living matter, not unlike the simplest bacteria
of to-day, but able to live on air, water, and dissolved salts. From such a source may have
originated a race of one-celled marine organisms which were able to manufacture chlorophyll,
or something like chlorophyll, that is to say, the green pigment which makes it possible for
plants to utilise the energy of the sunlight in breaking up carbon dioxide and in building
up (photosynthesis) carbon compounds like sugars and starch. These little units were probably
encased in a cell-wall of cellulose, but their boxed-in energy expressed itself in the undulatory
movement of a lash or flagellum, by means of which they propelled themselves energetically
through the water. There are many similar organisms to-day, mostly in water, but some of them--simple
one-celled plants--paint the tree-stems and even the paving-stones green in wet weather. According
to Prof. A. H. Church there was a long chapter in the history of the earth when the sea that
covered everything teemed with these green flagellates--the originators of the Vegetable Kingdom.

On another tack, however, there probably evolved a series of simple predatory creatures, not
able to build up organic matter from air, water, and salts, but devouring their neighbours.
These units were not closed in with cellulose, but remained naked, with their living matter
or protoplasm flowing out in changeful processes, such as we see in the Amoebæ in the ditch
or in our own white blood corpuscles and other amoeboid cells. These were the originators of
the animal kingdom. Thus from very simple Protists the first animals and the first plants may
have arisen. All were still very minute, and it is worth remembering that had there been any
scientific spectator after our kind upon the earth during these long ages, he would have lamented
the entire absence of life, although the seas were teeming. The simplest forms of life and
the protoplasm which Huxley called the physical basis of life will be dealt with in the chapter
on Biology in a later section of this work.

Typical plants have chlorophyll; they are able to feed at a low chemical level on air, water,
and salts, using the energy of the sunlight in their photosynthesis. They have their cells
boxed in by cellulose walls, so that their opportunities for motility are greatly restricted.
They manufacture much more nutritive material than they need, and live far below their income.
They have no ready way of getting rid of any nitrogenous waste matter that they may form, and
this probably helps to keep them sluggish.

Animals, on the other hand, feed at a high chemical level, on the carbohydrates (e.g. starch
and sugar), fats, and proteins (e.g. gluten, albumin, casein) which are manufactured by other
animals, or to begin with, by plants. Their cells have not cellulose walls, nor in most cases
much wall of any kind, and motility in the majority is unrestricted. Animals live much more
nearly up to their income. If we could make for an animal and a plant of equal weight two fractions
showing the ratio of the upbuilding, constructive, chemical processes to the down-breaking,
disruptive, chemical processes that go on in their respective bodies, the ratio for the plant
would be much greater than the corresponding ratio for the animal. In other words, animals
take the munitions which plants laboriously manufacture and explode them in locomotion and
work; and the entire system of animate nature depends upon the photosynthesis that goes on
in green plants.

As the result of much more explosive life, animals have to deal with much in the way of nitrogenous
waste products, the ashes of the living fire, but these are usually got rid of very effectively,
e.g. in the kidney filters, and do not clog the system by being deposited as crystals and the
like, as happens in plants. Sluggish animals like sea-squirts which have no kidneys are exceptions
that prove the rule, and it need hardly be said that the statements that have been made in
regard to the contrasts between plants and animals are general statements. There is often a
good deal of the plant about the animal, as in sedentary sponges, zoophytes, corals, and sea-squirts,
and there is often a little of the animal about the plant, as we see in the movements of all
shoots and roots and leaves, and occasionally in the parts of the flower. But the important
fact is that on the early forking of the genealogical tree, i.e. the divergence of plants and
animals, there depended and depends all the higher life of the animal kingdom, not to speak
of mankind. The continuance of civilisation, the upkeep of the human and animal population
of the globe, and even the supply of oxygen to the air we breathe, depend on the silent laboratories
of the green leaves, which are able with the help of the sunlight to use carbonic acid, water,
and salts to build up the bread of life.

§ 2

The Beginnings of Land Plants

It is highly probable that for long ages the waters covered the earth, and that all the primeval
vegetation consisted of simple Flagellates in the universal Open Sea. But contraction of the
earth's crust brought about elevations and depressions of the sea-floor, and in places the
solid substratum was brought near enough the surface to allow the floating plants to begin
to settle down without getting out of the light. This is how Professor Church pictures the
beginning of a fixed vegetation--a very momentous step in evolution. It was perhaps among this
early vegetation that animals had their first successes. As the floor of the sea in these shallow
areas was raised higher and higher there was a beginning of dry land. The sedentary plants
already spoken of were the ancestors of the shore seaweeds, and there is no doubt that when
we go down at the lowest tide and wade cautiously out among the jungle of vegetation only exposed
on such occasions we are getting a glimpse of very ancient days. This is the forest primeval.

The Protozoa

Animals below the level of zoophytes and sponges are called Protozoa. The word obviously means
"First Animals," but all that we can say is that the very simplest of them may give us some
hint of the simplicity of the original first animals. For it is quite certain that the vast
majority of the Protozoa to-day are far too complicated to be thought of as primitive. Though
most of them are microscopic, each is an animal complete in itself, with the same fundamental
bodily attributes as are manifested in ourselves. They differ from animals of higher degree
in not being built up of the unit areas or corpuscles called cells. They have no cells, no
tissues, no organs, in the ordinary acceptation of these words, but many of them show a great
complexity of internal structure, far exceeding that of the ordinary cells that build up the
tissues of higher animals. They are complete living creatures which have not gone in for body-making.

In the dim and distant past there was a time when the only animals were of the nature of Protozoa,
and it is safe to say that one of the great steps in evolution was the establishment of three
great types of Protozoa: (a) Some were very active, the Infusorians, like the slipper animalcule,
the night-light (Noctiluca), which makes the seas phosphorescent at night, and the deadly Trypanosome,
which causes Sleeping Sickness. (b) Others were very sluggish, the parasitic Sporozoa, like
the malaria organism which the mosquito introduces into man's body. (c) Others were neither
very active nor very passive, the Rhizopods, with out-flowing processes of living matter. This
amoeboid line of evolution has been very successful; it is represented by the Rhizopods, such
as Amoebæ and the chalk-forming Foraminifera and the exquisitely beautiful flint-shelled Radiolarians
of the open sea. They have their counterparts in the amoeboid cells of most multicellular animals,
such as the phagocytes which migrate about in the body, engulfing and digesting intruding bacteria,
serving as sappers and miners when something has to be broken down and built up again, and
performing other useful offices.

§ 3

The Making of a Body

The great naturalist Louis Agassiz once said that the biggest gulf in Organic Nature was that
between the unicellular and the multicellular animals (Protozoa and Metazoa). But the gulf
was bridged very long ago when sponges, stinging animals, and simple worms were evolved, and
showed, for the first time, a "body." What would one not give to be able to account for the
making of a body, one of the great steps in evolution! No one knows, but the problem is not
altogether obscure.

When an ordinary Protozoon or one-celled animal divides into two or more, which is its way
of multiplying, the daughter-units thus formed float apart and live independent lives. But
there are a few Protozoa in which the daughter-units are not quite separated off from one another,
but remain coherent. Thus Volvox, a beautiful green ball, found in some canals and the like,
is a colony of a thousand or even ten thousand cells. It has almost formed a body! But in this
"colony-making" Protozoon, and in others like it, the component cells are all of one kind,
whereas in true multicellular animals there are different kinds of cells, showing division
of labour. There are some other Protozoa in which the nucleus or kernel divides into many nuclei
within the cell. This is seen in the Giant Amoeba (Pelomyxa), sometimes found in duck-ponds,
or the beautiful Opalina, which always lives in the hind part of the frog's food-canal. If
a portion of the living matter of these Protozoa should gather round each of the nuclei, then
that would be the beginning of a body. It would be still nearer the beginning of a body if
division of labour set in, and if there was a setting apart of egg-cells and sperm-cells distinct
from body-cells.

It was possibly in some such way that animals and plants with a body were first evolved. Two
points should be noticed, that body-making is not essentially a matter of size, though it made
large size possible. For the body of a many-celled Wheel Animalcule or Rotifer is no bigger
than many a Protozoon. Yet the Rotifer--we are thinking of Hydatina--has nine hundred odd cells,
whereas the Protozoon has only one, except in forms like Volvox. Secondly, it is a luminous
fact that every many-celled animal from sponge to man that multiplies in the ordinary way begins
at the beginning again as a "single cell," the fertilised egg-cell. It is, of course, not an
ordinary single cell that develops into an earthworm or a butterfly, an eagle, or a man; it
is a cell in which a rich inheritance, the fruition of ages, is somehow condensed; but it is
interesting to bear in mind the elementary fact that every many-celled creature, reproduced
in the ordinary way and not by budding or the like, starts as a fertilised egg-cell. The coherence
of the daughter-cells into which the fertilised egg-cell divides is a reminiscence, as it were,
of the primeval coherence of daughter-units that made the first body possible.

The Beginning of Sexual Reproduction

A freshwater Hydra, growing on the duckweed usually multiplies by budding. It forms daughter-buds,
living images of itself; a check comes to nutrition and these daughter-buds go free. A big
sea-anemone may divide in two or more parts, which become separate animals. This is asexual
reproduction, which means that the multiplication takes place by dividing into two or many
portions, and not by liberating egg-cells and sperm-cells. Among animals as among plants, asexual
reproduction is very common. But it has great disadvantages, for it is apt to be physiologically
expensive, and it is beset with difficulties when the body shows great division of labour,
and is very intimately bound into unity. Thus, no one can think of a bee or a bird multiplying
by division or by budding. Moreover, if the body of the parent has suffered from injury or
deterioration, the result of this is bound to be handed on to the next generation if asexual
reproduction is the only method.

Splitting into two or many parts was the old-fashioned way of multiplying, but one of the great
steps in evolution was the discovery of a better method, namely, sexual reproduction. The gist
of this is simply that during the process of body-building (by the development of the fertilised
egg-cell) certain units, the germ-cells, do not share in forming ordinary tissues or organs,
but remain apart, continuing the full inheritance which was condensed in the fertilised egg-cell.
These cells kept by themselves are the originators of the future reproductive cells of the
mature animal; they give rise to the egg-cells and the sperm-cells.

The advantages of this method are great. (1) The new generation is started less expensively,
for it is easier to shed germ-cells into the cradle of the water than to separate off half
of the body. (2) It is possible to start a great many new lives at once, and this may be of
vital importance when the struggle for existence is very keen, and when parental care is impossible.
(3) The germ-cells are little likely to be prejudicially affected by disadvantageous dints
impressed on the body of the parent--little likely unless the dints have peculiarly penetrating
consequences, as in the case of poisons. (4) A further advantage is implied in the formation
of two kinds of germ-cells--the ovum or egg-cell, with a considerable amount of building material
and often with a legacy of nutritive yolk; the spermatozoon or sperm-cell, adapted to move
in fluids and to find the ovum from a distance, thus securing change-provoking cross-fertilisation.

§ 4

The Evolution of Sex

Another of the great steps in organic evolution was the differentiation of two different physiological
types, the male or sperm-producer and the female or egg-producer. It seems to be a deep-seated
difference in constitution, which leads one egg to develop into a male, and another, lying
beside it in the nest, into a female. In the case of pigeons it seems almost certain, from
the work of Professor Oscar Riddle, that there are two kinds of egg, a male-producing egg and
a female-producing egg, which differ in their yolk-forming and other physiological characters.

In sea-urchins we often find two creatures superficially indistinguishable, but the one is
a female with large ovaries and the other is a male with equally large testes. Here the physiological
difference does not affect the body as a whole, but the reproductive organs or gonads only,
though more intimate physiology would doubtless discover differences in the blood or in the
chemical routine (metabolism). In a large number of cases, however, there are marked superficial
differences between the sexes, and everyone is familiar with such contrasts as peacock and
peahen, stag and hind. In such cases the physiological difference between the sperm-producer
and the ovum-producer, for this is the essential difference, saturates through the body and
expresses itself in masculine and feminine structures and modes of behaviour. The expression
of the masculine and feminine characters is in some cases under the control of hormones or
chemical messengers which are carried by the blood from the reproductive organs throughout
the body, and pull the trigger which brings about the development of an antler or a wattle
or a decorative plume or a capacity for vocal and saltatory display. In some cases it is certain
that the female carries in a latent state the masculine features, but these are kept from expressing
themselves by other chemical messengers from the ovary. Of these chemical messengers more must
be said later on.

Recent research has shown that while the difference between male and female is very deep-rooted,
corresponding to a difference in gearing, it is not always clear-cut. Thus a hen-pigeon may
be very masculine, and a cock-pigeon very feminine. The difference is in degree, not in kind.

§ 5

What is the meaning of the universal or almost universal inevitableness of death? A Sequoia
or "Big Tree" of California has been known to live for over two thousand years, but eventually
it died. A centenarian tortoise has been known, and a sea-anemone sixty years of age; but eventually
they die. What is the meaning of this apparently inevitable stoppage of bodily life?

The Beginning of Natural Death

There are three chief kinds of death, (a) The great majority of animals come to a violent end,
being devoured by others or killed by sudden and extreme changes in their surroundings. (b)
When an animal enters a new habitat, or comes into new associations with other organisms, it
may be invaded by a microbe or by some larger parasite to which it is unaccustomed and to which
it can offer no resistance. With many parasites a "live-and-let-live" compromise is arrived
at, but new parasites are apt to be fatal, as man knows to his cost when he is bitten by a
tse-tse fly which infects him with the microscopic animal (a Trypanosome) that causes Sleeping
Sickness. In many animals the parasites are not troublesome as long as the host is vigorous,
but if the host is out of condition the parasites may get the upper hand, as in the so-called
"grouse disease," and become fatal. (c) But besides violent death and microbic (or parasitic)
death, there is natural death. This is in great part to be regarded as the price paid for a
body. A body worth having implies complexity or division of labour, and this implies certain
internal furnishings of a more or less stable kind in which the effects of wear and tear are
apt to accumulate. It is not the living matter itself that grows old so much as the framework
in which it works--the furnishings of the vital laboratory. There are various processes of
rejuvenescence, e.g. rest, repair, change, reorganisation, which work against the inevitable
processes of senescence, but sooner or later the victory is with ageing. Another deep reason
for natural death is to be found in the physiological expensiveness of reproduction, for many
animals, from worms to eels, illustrate natural death as the nemesis of starting new lives.
Now it is a very striking fact that to a large degree the simplest animals or Protozoa are
exempt from natural death. They are so relatively simple that they can continually recuperate
by rest and repair; they do not accumulate any bad debts. Moreover, their modes of multiplying,
by dividing into two or many units, are very inexpensive physiologically. It seems that in
some measure this bodily immortality of the Protozoa is shared by some simple many-celled animals
like the freshwater Hydra and Planarian worms. Here is an interesting chapter in evolution,
the evolution of means of evading or staving off natural death. Thus there is the well-known
case of the Paloloworm of the coral-reefs where the body breaks up in liberating the germ-cells,
but the head-end remains fixed in a crevice of the coral, and buds out a new body at leisure.

Along with the evolution of the ways of avoiding death should be considered also the gradual
establishment of the length of life best suited to the welfare of the species, and the punctuation
of the life-history to suit various conditions.

§ 6

Great Acquisitions

In animals like sea-anemones and jellyfishes the general symmetry of the body is radial; that
is to say, there is no right or left, and the body might be halved along many planes. It is
a kind of symmetry well suited for sedentary or for drifting life. But worms began the profitable
habit of moving with one end of the body always in front, and from worms to man the great majority
of animals have bilateral symmetry. They have a right and a left side, and there is only one
cut that halves the body. This kind of symmetry is suited for a more strenuous life than radial
animals show; it is suited for pursuing food, for avoiding enemies, for chasing mates. And
with the establishment of bilateral symmetry must be associated the establishment of head-brains,
the beginning of which is to be found in some simple worm-types.

Among the other great acquisitions gradually evolved we may notice: a well-developed head with
sense-organs, the establishment of large internal surfaces such as the digestive and absorptive
wall of the food-canal, the origin of quickly contracting striped muscle and of muscular appendages,
the formation of blood as a distributing medium throughout the body, from which all the parts
take what they need and to which they also contribute.

Another very important acquisition, almost confined (so far as is known) to backboned animals,
was the evolution of what are called glands of internal secretion, such as the thyroid and
the supra-renal. These manufacture subtle chemical substances which are distributed by the
blood throughout the body, and have a manifold influence in regulating and harmonising the
vital processes. Some of these chemical messengers are called hormones, which stimulate organs
and tissues to greater activity; others are called chalones, which put on a brake. Some regulate
growth and others rapidly alter the pressure and composition of the blood. Some of them call
into active development certain parts of the body which have been, as it were, waiting for
an appropriate trigger-pulling. Thus, at the proper time, the milk-glands of a mammalian mother
are awakened from their dormancy. This very interesting outcome of evolution will be dealt
with in another portion of this work.

THE INCLINED PLANE OF ANIMAL BEHAVIOUR

§ 1

Before passing to a connected story of the gradual emergence of higher and higher forms of
life in the course of the successive ages--the procession of life, as it may be called--it
will be useful to consider the evolution of animal behaviour.

Evolution of Mind

A human being begins as a microscopic fertilised egg-cell, within which there is condensed
the long result of time--Man's inheritance. The long period of nine months before birth, with
its intimate partnership between mother and offspring, is passed as it were in sleep, and no
one can make any statement in regard to the mind of the unborn child. Even after birth the
dawn of mind is as slow as it is wonderful. To begin with, there is in the ovum and early embryo
no nervous system at all, and it develops very gradually from simple beginnings. Yet as mentality
cannot come in from outside, we seem bound to conclude that the potentiality of it--whatever
that means--resides in the individual from the very first. The particular kind of activity
known to us as thinking, feeling, and willing is the most intimate part of our experience,
known to us directly apart from our senses, and the possibility of that must be implicit in
the germ-cell just as the genius of Newton was implicit in a very miserable specimen of an
infant. Now what is true of the individual is true also of the race--there is a gradual evolution
of that aspect of the living creature's activity which we call mind. We cannot put our finger
on any point and say: Before this stage there was no mind. Indeed, many facts suggest the conclusion
that wherever there is life there is some degree of mind--even in the plants. Or it might be
more accurate to put the conclusion in another way, that the activity we call life has always
in some degree an inner or mental aspect.

In another part of this book there is an account of the dawn of mind in backboned animals;
what we aim at here is an outline of what may be called the inclined plane of animal behaviour.

A very simple animal accumulates a little store of potential energy, and it proceeds to expend
this, like an explosive, by acting on its environment. It does so in a very characteristic
self-preservative fashion, so that it burns without being consumed and explodes without being
blown to bits. It is characteristic of the organism that it remains a going concern for a longer
or shorter period--its length of life. Living creatures that expended their energy ineffectively
or self-destructively would be eliminated in the struggle for existence. When a simple one-celled
organism explores a corner of the field seen under a microscope, behaving to all appearance
very like a dog scouring a field seen through a telescope, it seems permissible to think of
something corresponding to mental endeavour associated with its activity. This impression is
strengthened when an amoeba pursues another amoeba, overtakes it, engulfs it, loses it, pursues
it again, recaptures it, and so on. What is quite certain is that the behaviour of the animalcule
is not like that of a potassium pill fizzing about in a basin of water, nor like the lurching
movements of a gun that has got loose and "taken charge" on board ship. Another feature is
that the locomotor activity of an animalcule often shows a distinct individuality: it may swim,
for instance, in a loose spiral.

But there is another side to vital activity besides acting upon the surrounding world; the
living creature is acted on by influences from without. The organism acts on its environment;
that is the one side of the shield: the environment acts upon the organism; that is the other
side. If we are to see life whole we must recognise these two sides of what we call living,
and it is missing an important part of the history of animal life if we fail to see that evolution
implies becoming more advantageously sensitive to the environment, making more of its influences,
shutting out profitless stimuli, and opening more gateways to knowledge. The bird's world is
a larger and finer world than an earthworm's; the world means more to the bird than to the worm.

The Trial and Error Method

Simple creatures act with a certain degree of spontaneity on their environment, and they likewise
react effectively to surrounding stimuli. Animals come to have definite "answers back," sometimes
several, sometimes only one, as in the case of the Slipper Animalcule, which reverses its cilia
when it comes within the sphere of some disturbing influence, retreats, and, turning upon itself
tentatively, sets off again in the same general direction as before, but at an angle to the
previous line. If it misses the disturbing influence, well and good; if it strikes it again,
the tactics are repeated until a satisfactory way out is discovered or the stimulation proves
fatal.

It may be said that the Slipper Animalcule has but one answer to every question, but there
are many Protozoa which have several enregistered reactions. When there are alternative reactions
which are tried one after another, the animal is pursuing what is called the trial-and-error
method, and a higher note is struck.

There is an endeavour after satisfaction, and a trial of answers. When the creature profits
by experience to the extent of giving the right answer first, there is the beginning of learning.

Reflex Actions

Among simple multicellular animals, such as sea-anemones, we find the beginnings of reflex
actions, and a considerable part of the behaviour of the lower animals is reflex. That is to
say, there are laid down in the animal in the course of its development certain pre-arrangements
of nerve-cells and muscle-cells which secure that a fit and proper answer is given to a frequently
recurrent stimulus. An earthworm half out of its burrow becomes aware of the light tread of
a thrush's foot, and jerks itself back into its hole before anyone can say "reflex action."
What is it that happens?

Certain sensory nerve-cells in the earthworm's skin are stimulated by vibrations in the earth;
the message travels down a sensory nerve-fibre from each of the stimulated cells and enters
the nerve-cord. The sensory fibres come into vital connection with branches of intermediary,
associative, or communicating cells, which are likewise connected with motor nerve-cells. To
these the message is thus shunted. From the motor nerve-cells an impulse or command travels
by motor nerve-fibres, one from each cell, to the muscles, which contract. If this took as
long to happen as it takes to describe, even in outline, it would not be of much use to the
earthworm. But the motor answer follows the sensory stimulus almost instantaneously. The great
advantage of establishing or enregistering these reflex chains is that the answers are practically
ready-made or inborn, not requiring to be learned. It is not necessary that the brain should
be stimulated if there is a brain; nor does the animal will to act, though in certain cases
it may by means of higher controlling nerve-centres keep the natural reflex response from being
given, as happens, for instance, when we control a cough or a sneeze on some solemn occasion.
The evolutionary method, if we may use the expression, has been to enregister ready-made responses;
and as we ascend the animal kingdom, we find reflex actions becoming complicated and often
linked together, so that the occurrence of one pulls the trigger of another, and so on in a
chain. The behaviour of the insectivorous plant called Venus's fly-trap when it shuts on an
insect is like a reflex action in an animal, but plants have no definite nervous system.

What are Called Tropisms

A somewhat higher level on the inclined plane is illustrated by what are called "tropisms,"
obligatory movements which the animal makes, adjusting its whole body so that physiological
equilibrium results in relation to gravity, pressure, currents, moisture, heat, light, electricity,
and surfaces of contact. A moth is flying past a candle; the eye next the light is more illumined
than the other; a physiological inequilibrium results, affecting nerve-cells and muscle-cells;
the outcome is that the moth automatically adjusts its flight so that both eyes become equally
illumined; in doing this it often flies into the candle.

It may seem bad business that the moth should fly into the candle, but the flame is an utterly
artificial item in its environment to which no one can expect it to be adapted. These tropisms
play an important rôle in animal behaviour.

§ 2

Instinctive Behaviour

On a higher level is instinctive behaviour, which reaches such remarkable perfection in ants,
bees, and wasps. In its typical expression instinctive behaviour depends on inborn capacities;
it does not require to be learned; it is independent of practice or experience, though it may
be improved by both; it is shared equally by all members of the species of the same sex (for
the female's instincts are often different from the male's); it refers to particular conditions
of life that are of vital importance, though they may occur only once in a lifetime. The female
Yucca Moth emerges from the cocoon when the Yucca flower puts forth its bell-like blossoms.
She flies to a flower, collects some pollen from the stamens, kneads it into a pill-like ball,
and stows this away under her chin. She flies to an older Yucca flower and lays her eggs in
some of the ovules within the seed-box, but before she does so she has to deposit on the stigma
the ball of pollen. From this the pollen-tubes grow down and the pollen-nucleus of a tube fertilises
the egg-cell in an ovule, so that the possible seeds become real seeds, for it is only a fraction
of them that the Yucca Moth has destroyed by using them as cradles for her eggs. Now it is
plain that the Yucca Moth has no individual experience of Yucca flowers, yet she secures the
continuance of her race by a concatenation of actions which form part of her instinctive repertory.

From a physiological point of view instinctive behaviour is like a chain of compound reflex
actions, but in some cases, at least, there is reason to believe that the behaviour is suffused
with awareness and backed by endeavour. This is suggested in exceptional cases where the stereotyped
routine is departed from to meet exceptional conditions. It should also be noted that just
as ants, hive bees, and wasps exhibit in most cases purely instinctive behaviour, but move
on occasion on the main line of trial and error or of experimental initiative, so among birds
and mammals the intelligent behaviour is sometimes replaced by instinctive routine. Perhaps
there is no instinctive behaviour without a spice of intelligence, and no intelligent behaviour
without an instinctive element. The old view that instinctive behaviour was originally intelligent,
and that instinct is "lapsed intelligence," is a tempting one, and is suggested by the way
in which habitual intelligent actions cease in the individual to require intelligent control,
but it rests on the unproved hypothesis that the acquisitions of the individual can be entailed
on the race. It is almost certain that instinct is on a line of evolution quite different from
intelligence, and that it is nearer to the inborn inspirations of the calculating boy or the
musical genius than to the plodding methods of intelligent learning.

Animal Intelligence

The higher reaches of the inclined plane of behaviour show intelligence in the strict sense.
They include those kinds of behaviour which cannot be described without the suggestion that
the animal makes some sort of perceptual inference, not only profiting by experience but learning
by ideas. Such intelligent actions show great individual variability; they are plastic and
adjustable in a manner rarely hinted at in connection with instincts where routine cannot be
departed from without the creature being nonplussed; they are not bound up with particular
circumstances as instinctive actions are, but imply an appreciative awareness of relations.

When there is an experimenting with general ideas, when there is conceptual as contrasted with
perceptual inference, we speak of Reason, but there is no evidence of this below the level
of man. It is not, indeed, always that we can credit man with rational conduct, but he has
the possibility of it ever within his reach.

Animal instinct and intelligence will be illustrated in another part of this work. We are here
concerned simply with the general question of the evolution of behaviour. There is a main line
of tentative experimental behaviour both below and above the level of intelligence, and it
has been part of the tactics of evolution to bring about the hereditary enregistration of capacities
of effective response, the advantages being that the answers come more rapidly and that the
creature is left free, if it chooses, for higher adventures.

There is no doubt as to the big fact that in the course of evolution animals have shown an
increasing complexity and masterfulness of behaviour, that they have become at once more controlled
and more definitely free agents, and that the inner aspect of the behaviour--experimenting,
learning, thinking, feeling, and willing--has come to count for more and more.

§ 3

Evolution of Parental Care

Mammals furnish a crowning instance of a trend of evolution which expresses itself at many
levels--the tendency to bring forth the young at a well-advanced stage and to an increase of
parental care associated with a decrease in the number of offspring. There is a British starfish
called Luidia which has two hundred millions of eggs in a year, and there are said to be several
millions of eggs in conger-eels and some other fishes. These illustrate the spawning method
of solving the problem of survival. Some animals are naturally prolific, and the number of
eggs which they sow broadcast in the waters allows for enormous infantile mortality and obviates
any necessity for parental care.

But some other creatures, by nature less prolific, have found an entirely different solution
of the problem. They practise parental care and they secure survival with greatly economised
reproduction. This is a trend of evolution particularly characteristic of the higher animals.
So much so that Herbert Spencer formulated the generalisation that the size and frequency of
the animal family is inverse ratio to the degree of evolution to which the animal has attained.

Now there are many different methods of parental care which secure the safety of the young,
and one of these is called viviparity. The young ones are not liberated from the parent until
they are relatively well advanced and more or less able to look after themselves. This gives
the young a good send-off in life, and their chances of death are greatly reduced. In other
words, the animals that have varied in the direction of economised reproduction may keep their
foothold in the struggle for existence if they have varied at the same time in the direction
of parental care. In other cases it may have worked the other way round.

In the interesting archaic animal called Peripatus, which has to face a modern world too severe
for it, one of the methods of meeting the environing difficulties is the retention of the offspring
for many months within the mother, so that it is born a fully-formed creature. There are only
a few offspring at a time, and, although there are exceptional cases like the summer green-flies,
which are very prolific though viviparous, the general rule is that viviparity is associated
with a very small family. The case of flowering plants stands by itself, for although they
illustrate a kind of viviparity, the seed being embryos, an individual plant may have a large
number of flowers and therefore a huge family.

Viviparity naturally finds its best illustrations among terrestrial animals, where the risks
to the young life are many, and it finds its climax among mammals.

Now it is an interesting fact that the three lowest mammals, the Duckmole and two Spiny Ant-eaters,
lay eggs, i.e. are oviparous; that the Marsupials, on the next grade, bring forth their young,
as it were, prematurely, and in most cases stow them away in an external pouch; while all the
others--the Placentals--show a more prolonged ante-natal life and an intimate partnership between
the mother and the unborn young.

§ 4

There is another way of looking at the sublime process of evolution. It has implied a mastery
of all the possible haunts of life; it has been a progressive conquest of the environment.

1. It is highly probable that living organisms found their foothold in the stimulating conditions
of the shore of the sea--the shallow water, brightly illumined, seaweed-growing shelf fringing
the Continents. This littoral zone was a propitious environment where sea and fresh water,
earth and air all meet, where there is stimulating change, abundant oxygenation and a copious
supply of nutritive material in what the streams bring down and in the rich seaweed vegetation.

It is not an easy haunt of life, but none the worse for that, and it is tenanted to-day by
representatives of practically every class of animals from infusorians to seashore birds and
mammals.

The Cradle of the Open Sea

2. The open-sea or pelagic haunt includes all the brightly illumined surface waters beyond
the shallow water of the shore area.

It is perhaps the easiest of all the haunts of life, for there is no crowding, there is considerable
uniformity, and an abundance of food for animals is afforded by the inexhaustible floating
"sea-meadows" of microscopic Algæ. These are reincarnated in minute animals like the open-sea
crustaceans, which again are utilised by fishes, these in turn making life possible for higher
forms like carnivorous turtles and toothed whales. It is quite possible that the open sea was
the original cradle of life and perhaps Professor Church is right in picturing a long period
of pelagic life before there was any sufficiently shallow water to allow the floating plants
to anchor. It is rather in favour of this view that many shore animals such as crabs and starfishes,
spend their youthful stages in the relatively safe cradle of the open sea, and only return
to the more strenuous conditions of their birthplace after they have gained considerable strength
of body. It is probably safe to say that the honour of being the original cradle of life lies
between the shore of the sea and the open sea.

The Great Deeps

3. A third haunt of life is the floor of the Deep Sea, the abyssal area, which occupies more
than a half of the surface of the globe. It is a region of extreme cold--an eternal winter;
of utter darkness--an eternal night--relieved only by the fitful gleams of "phosphorescent"
animals; of enormous pressure--2-1/2 tons on the square inch at a depth of 2,500 fathoms; of
profound calm, unbroken silence, immense monotony. And as there are no plants in the great
abysses, the animals must live on one another, and, in the long run, on the rain of moribund
animalcules which sink from the surface through the miles of water. It seems a very unpromising
haunt of life, but it is abundantly tenanted, and it gives us a glimpse of the insurgent nature
of the living creature that the difficulties of the Deep Sea should have been so effectively
conquered. It is probable that the colonising of the great abysses took place in relatively
recent times, for the fauna does not include many very antique types. It is practically certain
that the colonisation was due to littoral animals which followed the food-débris, millennium
after millennium, further and further down the long slope from the shore.

The Freshwaters

4. A fourth haunt of life is that of the freshwaters, including river and lake, pond and pool,
swamp and marsh. It may have been colonised by gradual migration up estuaries and rivers, or
by more direct passage from the seashore into the brackish swamp. Or it may have been in some
cases that partially landlocked corners of ancient seas became gradually turned into freshwater
basins. The animal population of the freshwaters is very representative, and is diversely adapted
to meet the characteristic contingencies--the risk of being dried up, the risk of being frozen
hard in winter, and the risk of being left high and dry after floods or of being swept down
to the sea.

Conquest of the Dry Land

5. The terrestrial haunt has been invaded age after age by contingents from the sea or from
the freshwaters. We must recognise the worm invasion, which led eventually to the making of
the fertile soil, the invasion due to air-breathing Arthropods, which led eventually to the
important linkage between flowers and their insect visitors, and the invasion due to air-breathing
Amphibians, which led eventually to the higher terrestrial animals and to the development of
intelligence and family affection. Besides these three great invasions, there were minor ones
such as that leading to land-snails, for there has been a widespread and persistent tendency
among aquatic animals to try to possess the dry land.

Getting on to dry land had a manifold significance.

It implied getting into a medium with a much larger supply of oxygen than there is dissolved
in the water. But the oxygen of the air is more difficult to capture, especially when the skin
becomes hard or well protected, as it is almost bound to become in animals living on dry ground.
Thus this leads to the development of internal surfaces, such as those of lungs, where the
oxygen taken into the body may be absorbed by the blood. In most animals the blood goes to
the surface of oxygen-capture; but in insects and their relatives there is a different idea--of
taking the air to the blood or in greater part to the area of oxygen-combustion, the living
tissues. A system of branching air-tubes takes air into every hole and corner of the insect's
body, and this thorough aeration is doubtless in part the secret of the insect's intense activity.
The blood never becomes impure.

The conquest of the dry land also implied a predominance of that kind of locomotion which may
be compared to punting, when the body is pushed along by pressing a lever against a hard substratum.
And it also followed that with few exceptions the body of the terrestrial animal tended to
be compact, readily lifted off the ground by the limbs or adjusted in some other way so that
there may not be too large a surface trailing on the ground. An animal like a jellyfish, easily
supported in the water, would be impossible on land. Such apparent exceptions as earthworms,
centipedes, and snakes are not difficult to explain, for the earthworm is a burrower which
eats its way through the soil, the centipede's long body is supported by numerous hard legs,
and the snake pushes itself along by means of the large ventral scales to which the lower ends
of very numerous ribs are attached.

Methods of Mastering the Difficulties of Terrestrial Life

A great restriction attendant on the invasion of the dry land is that locomotion becomes limited
to one plane, namely, the surface of the earth. This is in great contrast to what is true in
the water, where the animal can move up or down, to right or to left, at any angle and in three
dimensions. It surely follows from this that the movements of land animals must be rapid and
precise, unless, indeed, safety is secured in some other way. Hence it is easy to understand
why most land animals have very finely developed striped muscles, and why a beetle running
on the ground has far more numerous muscles than a lobster swimming in the sea.

Land animals were also handicapped by the risks of drought and of frost, but these were met
by defences of the most diverse description, from the hairs of woolly caterpillars to the fur
of mammals, from the carapace of tortoises to the armour of armadillos. In other cases, it
is hardly necessary to say, the difficulties may be met in other ways, as frogs meet the winter
by falling into a lethargic state in some secluded retreat.

Another consequence of getting on to dry land is that the eggs or young can no longer be set
free anyhow, as is possible when the animal is surrounded by water, which is in itself more
or less of a cradle. If the eggs were laid or the young liberated on dry ground, the chances
are many that they would be dried up or devoured. So there are numerous ways in which land
animals secure the safety of their young, e.g. by burying them in the ground, or by hiding
them in nests, or by carrying them about for a prolonged period either before or after birth.
This may mean great safety for the young, this may make it possible to have only a small family,
and this may tend to the evolution of parental care and the kindly emotions. Thus it may be
understood that from the conquest of the land many far-reaching consequences have followed.

Finally, it is worth dwelling on the risks of terrestrial life, because they enable us better
to understand why so many land animals have become burrowers and others climbers of trees,
why some have returned to the water and others have taken to the air. It may be asked, perhaps,
why the land should have been colonised at all when the risks and difficulties are so great.
The answer must be that necessity and curiosity are the mother and father of invention. Animals
left the water because the pools dried up, or because they were overcrowded, or because of
inveterate enemies, but also because of that curiosity and spirit of adventure which, from
first to last, has been one of the spurs of progress.

Conquering the Air

6. The last great haunt of life is the air, a mastery of which must be placed to the credit
of insects, Pterodactyls, birds, and bats. These have been the successes, but it should be
noted that there have been many brilliant failures, which have not attained to much more than
parachuting. These include the Flying Fishes, which take leaps from the water and are carried
for many yards and to considerable heights, holding their enlarged pectoral fins taut or with
little more than a slight fluttering. There is a so-called Flying Frog (Rhacophorus) that skims
from branch to branch, and the much more effective Flying Dragon (Draco volans) of the Far
East, which has been mentioned already. Among mammals there are Flying Phalangers, Flying Lemurs,
and more besides, all attaining to great skill as parachutists, and illustrating the endeavour
to master the air which man has realised in a way of his own.

The power of flight brings obvious advantages. A bird feeding on the ground is able to evade
the stalking carnivore by suddenly rising into the air; food and water can be followed rapidly
and to great distances; the eggs or the young can be placed in safe situations; and birds in
their migrations have made a brilliant conquest both of time and space. Many of them know no
winter in their year, and the migratory flight of the Pacific Golden Plover from Hawaii to
Alaska and back again does not stand alone.

THE PROCESSION OF LIFE THROUGH THE AGES

§ 1

The Rock Record

How do we know when the various classes of animals and plants were established on the earth?
How do we know the order of their appearance and the succession of their advances? The answer
is: by reading the Rock Record. In the course of time the crust of the earth has been elevated
into continents and depressed into ocean-troughs, and the surface of the land has been buckled
up into mountain ranges and folded in gentler hills and valleys. The high places of the land
have been weathered by air and water in many forms, and the results of the weathering have
been borne away by rivers and seas, to be laid down again elsewhere as deposits which eventually
formed sandstones, mudstones, and similar sedimentary rocks. Much of the material of the original
crust has thus been broken down and worked up again many times over, and if the total thickness
of the sedimentary rocks is added up it amounts, according to some geologists, to a total of
67 miles. In most cases, however, only a small part of this thickness is to be seen in one
place, for the deposits were usually formed in limited areas at any one time.

The Use of Fossils

When the sediments were accumulating age after age, it naturally came about that remains of
the plants and animals living at the time were buried, and these formed the fossils by the
aid of which it is possible to read the story of the past. By careful piecing together of evidence
the geologist is able to determine the order in which the different sedimentary rocks were
laid down, and thus to say, for instance, that the Devonian period was the time of the origin
of Amphibians. In other cases the geologist utilises the fossils in his attempt to work out
the order of the strata when these have been much disarranged. For the simpler fossil forms
of any type must be older than those that are more complex. There is no vicious circle here,
for the general succession of strata is clear, and it is quite certain that there were fishes
before there were amphibians, and amphibians before there were reptiles, and reptiles before
there were birds and mammals. In certain cases, e.g. of fossil horses and elephants, the actual
historical succession has been clearly worked out.

If the successive strata contained good samples of all the plants and animals living at the
time when the beds were formed, then it would be easy to read the record of the rocks, but
many animals were too soft to become satisfactory fossils, many were eaten or dissolved away,
many were destroyed by heat and pressure, so that the rock record is like a library very much
damaged by fire and looting and decay.

§ 2

The Geological Time-table

The long history of the earth and its inhabitants is conveniently divided into eras. Thus,
just as we speak of the ancient, mediæval, and modern history of mankind, so we may speak of
Palæozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic eras in the history of the earth as a whole.

Geologists cannot tell us except in an approximate way how long the process of evolution has
taken. One of the methods is to estimate how long has been required for the accumulation of
the salts of the sea, for all these have been dissolved out of the rocks since rain began to
fall on the earth. Dividing the total amount of saline matter by what is contributed every
year in modern times, we get about a hundred million years as the age of the sea. But as the
present rate of salt-accumulation is probably much greater than it was during many of the geological
periods, the prodigious age just mentioned is in all likelihood far below the mark. Another
method is to calculate how long it would take to form the sedimentary rocks, like sandstones
and mudstones, which have a total thickness of over fifty miles, though the local thickness
is rarely over a mile. As most of the materials have come from the weathering of the earth's
crust, and as the annual amount of weathering now going on can be estimated, the time required
for the formation of the sedimentary rocks of the world can be approximately calculated. There
are some other ways of trying to tell the earth's age and the length of the successive periods,
but no certainty has been reached.

The eras marked on the table (page 92) as before the Cambrian correspond to about thirty-two
miles of thickness of strata; and all the subsequent eras with fossil-bearing rocks to a thickness
of about twenty-one miles--in itself an astounding fact. Perhaps thirty million years must
be allotted to the Pre-Cambrian eras, eighteen to the Palæozoic, nine to the Mesozoic, three
to the Cenozoic, making a grand total of sixty millions.

The Establishment of Invertebrate Stocks

It is an astounding fact that at least half of geological time (the Archæozoic and Proterozoic
eras) passed before there were living creatures with parts sufficiently hard to form fossils.
In the latter part of the Proterozoic era there are traces of one-celled marine animals (Radiolarians)
with shells of flint, and of worms that wallowed in the primal mud. It is plain that as regards
the most primitive creatures the rock record tells us little.

The rarity of direct traces of life in the oldest rocks is partly due to the fact that the
primitive animals would be of delicate build, but it must also be remembered that the ancient
rocks have been profoundly and repeatedly changed by pressure and heat, so that the traces
which did exist would be very liable to obliteration. And if it be asked what right we have
to suppose the presence of living creatures in the absence or extreme rarity of fossils, we
must point to great accumulations of limestone which indicate the existence of calcareous algæ,
and to deposits of iron which probably indicate the activity of iron-forming Bacteria. Ancient
beds of graphite similarly suggest that green plants flourished in these ancient days.

§ 3

The Era of Ancient Life (Palæozoic)

The Cambrian period was the time of the establishment of the chief stocks of backboneless animals
such as sponges, jellyfishes, worms, sea-cucumbers, lamp-shells, trilobites, crustaceans, and
molluscs. There is something very eloquent in the broad fact that the peopling of the seas
had definitely begun some thirty million years ago, for Professor H. F. Osborn points out that
in the Cambrian period there was already a colonisation of the shore of the sea, the open sea,
and the deep waters.

The Ordovician period was marked by abundant representation of the once very successful class
of Trilobites--jointed-footed, antenna-bearing, segmented marine animals, with numerous appendages
and a covering of chitin. They died away entirely with the end of the Palæozoic era. Also very
notable was the abundance of predatory cuttlefishes, the bullies of the ancient seas. But it
was in this period that the first backboned animals made their appearance--an epoch-making
step in evolution. In other words, true fishes were evolved--destined in the course of ages
to replace the cuttlefishes (which are mere molluscs) in dominating the seas.

 RECENT TIMES                            Human civilisation.

                      {PLEISTOCENE OR GLACIAL TIME Last great Ice Age.
 CENOZOIC ERA       {MIOCENE AND PLIOCENE TIMES  Emergence of Man.
                      {EOCENE AND OLIGOCENE TIMES  Rise of higher mammals.

                      {CRETACEOUS PERIOD    Rise of primitive mammals,
                      {                      flowering plants,
                      {                      and higher insects.
 MESOZOIC ERA       {JURASSIC PERIOD      Rise of birds and flying
                      {                      reptiles.
                      {TRIASSIC PERIOD      Rise of dinosaur reptiles.

                      {PERMIAN PERIOD       Rise of reptiles.
                      {CARBONIFEROUS PERIOD Rise of insects.
                      {DEVONIAN PERIOD      First amphibians.
 PALÆOZOIC ERA      {SILURIAN PERIOD      Land animals began.
                      {ORDOVICIAN PERIOD    First fishes.
                      {CAMBRIAN PERIOD      Peopling of the sea.

 PROTEROZOIC AGES   Many of the Backboneless stocks began.
 ARCHÆOZOIC AGES    Living creatures began to be upon the earth.

                      {Making of continents and ocean-basins.
                      {Beginnings of atmosphere and hydrosphere.
 FORMATIVE TIMES    {Cooling of the earth.
                      {Establishment of the solar system.

In the Silurian period in which the peopling of the seas went on apace, there was the first
known attempt at colonising the dry land. For in Silurian rocks there are fossil scorpions,
and that implies ability to breathe dry air--by means of internal surfaces, in this case known
as lungbooks. It was also towards the end of the Silurian, when a period of great aridity set
in, that fishes appeared related to our mud-fishes or double-breathers (Dipnoi), which have
lungs as well as gills. This, again, meant utilising dry air, just as the present-day mud-fishes
do when the water disappears from the pools in hot weather. The lung-fishes or mud-fishes of
to-day are but three in number, one in Queensland, one in South America, and one in Africa,
but they are extremely interesting "living fossils," binding the class of fishes to that of
amphibians. It is highly probable that the first invasion of the dry land should be put to
the credit of some adventurous worms, but the second great invasion was certainly due to air-breathing
Arthropods, like the pioneer scorpion we mentioned.

The Devonian period, including that of the Old Red Sandstone, was one of the most significant
periods in the earth's history. For it was the time of the establishment of flowering plants
upon the earth and of terrestrial backboned animals. One would like to have been the discoverer
of the Devonian foot-print of Thinopus, the first known Amphibian foot-print--an eloquent vestige
of the third great invasion of the dry land. It was probably from a stock of Devonian lung-fishes
that the first Amphibians sprang, but it was not till the next period that they came to their
own. While they were still feeling their way, there was a remarkable exuberance of shark-like
and heavily armoured fishes in the Devonian seas.

EVOLUTION OF LAND ANIMALS

§ 1

Giant Amphibians and Coal-measures

The Carboniferous period was marked by a mild moist climate and a luxuriant vegetation in the
swampy low grounds. It was a much less strenuous time than the Devonian period; it was like
a very long summer. There were no trees of the type we see now, but there were forests of club-mosses
and horsetails which grew to a gigantic size compared with their pigmy representatives of to-day.
In these forests the jointed-footed invaders of the dry land ran riot in the form of centipedes,
spiders, scorpions, and insects, and on these the primeval Amphibians fed. The appearance of
insects made possible a new linkage of far-reaching importance, namely, the cross-fertilisation
of flowering plants by their insect visitors, and from this time onwards it may be said that
flowers and their visitors have evolved hand in hand. Cross-fertilisation is much surer by
insects than by the wind, and cross-fertilisation is more advantageous than self-fertilisation
because it promotes both fertility and plasticity. It was probably in this period that coloured
flowers--attractive to insect-visitors--began to justify themselves as beauty became useful,
and began to relieve the monotonous green of the horsetail and club-moss forests, which covered
great tracts of the earth for millions of years. In the Carboniferous forests there were also
land-snails, representing one of the minor invasions of the dry land, tending on the whole
to check vegetation. They, too, were probably preyed upon by the Amphibians, some of which
attained a large size. Each age has had its giants, and those of the Carboniferous were Amphibians
called Labyrinthodonts, some of which were almost as big as donkeys. It need hardly be said
that it was in this period that most of the Coal-measures were laid down by the immense accumulation
of the spores and debris of the club-moss forests. Ages afterwards, it was given to man to
tap this great source of energy--traceable back to the sunshine of millions of years ago. Even
then it was true that no plant or animal lives or dies to itself!

The Acquisitions of Amphibians.

As Amphibians had their Golden Age in the Carboniferous period we may fitly use this opportunity
of indicating the advances in evolution which the emergence of Amphibians implied. (1) In the
first place the passage from water to dry land was the beginning of a higher and more promiseful
life, taxed no doubt by increased difficulties. The natural question rises why animals should
have migrated from water to dry land at all when great difficulties were involved in the transition.
The answers must be: (a) that local drying up of water-basins or elevations of the land surface
often made the old haunts untenable; (b) that there may have been great congestion and competition
in the old quarters; and (c) that there has been an undeniable endeavour after well-being throughout
the history of animal life. In the same way with mankind, migrations were prompted by the setting
in of prolonged drought, by over-population, and by the spirit of adventure. (2) In Amphibians
for the first time the non-digitate paired fins of fishes were replaced by limbs with fingers
and toes. This implied an advantageous power of grasping, of holding firm, of putting food
into the mouth, of feeling things in three dimensions. (3) We cannot be positive in regard
to the soft parts of the ancient Amphibians known only as fossils, but if they were in a general
way like the frogs and toads, newts and salamanders of the present day, we may say that they
made among other acquisitions the following: true ventral lungs, a three-chambered heart, a
movable tongue, a drum to the ear, and lids to the eyes. It is very interesting to find that
though the tongue of the tadpole has some muscle-fibres in it, they are not strong enough to
effect movement, recalling the tongue of fishes, which has not any muscles at all. Gradually,
as the tadpole becomes a frog, the muscle-fibres grow in strength, and make it possible for
the full-grown creature to shoot out its tongue upon insects. This is probably a recapitulation
of what was accomplished in the course of millennia in the history of the Amphibian race. (4)
Another acquisition made by Amphibians was a voice, due, as in ourselves, to the rapid passage
of air over taut membranes (vocal cords) stretched in the larynx. It is an interesting fact
that for millions of years there was upon the earth no sound of life at all, only the noise
of wind and wave, thunder and avalanche. Apart from the instrumental music of some insects,
perhaps beginning in the Carboniferous, the first vital sounds were due to Amphibians, and
theirs certainly was the first voice--surely one of the great steps in organic evolution.

Evolution of the Voice

The first use of the voice was probably that indicated by our frogs and toads--it serves as
a sex-call. That is the meaning of the trumpeting with which frogs herald the spring, and it
is often only in the males that the voice is well developed. But if we look forward, past Amphibians
altogether, we find the voice becoming a maternal call helping to secure the safety of the
young--a use very obvious when young birds squat motionless at the sound of the parent's danger-note.
Later on, probably, the voice became an infantile call, as when the unhatched crocodile pipes
from within the deeply buried egg, signalling to the mother that it is time to be unearthed.
Higher still the voice expresses emotion, as in the song of birds, often outside the limits
of the breeding time. Later still, particular sounds become words, signifying particular things
or feelings, such as "food," "danger," "home," "anger," and "joy." Finally words become a medium
of social intercourse and as symbols help to make it possible for man to reason.

§ 2

The Early Reptiles

In the Permian period reptiles appeared, or perhaps one should say, began to assert themselves.
That is to say, there was an emergence of backboned animals which were free from water and
relinquished the method of breathing by gills, which Amphibians retained in their young stages
at least. The unhatched or unborn reptile breathes by means of a vascular hood spread underneath
the egg-shell and absorbing dry air from without. It is an interesting point that this vascular
hood, called the allantois, is represented in the Amphibians by an unimportant bladder growing
out from the hind end of the food-canal. A great step in evolution was implied in the origin
of this ante-natal hood or foetal membrane and another one--of protective significance--called
the amnion, which forms a water-bag over the delicate embryo. The step meant total emancipation
from the water and from gill-breathing, and the two foetal membranes, the amnion and the allantois,
persist not only in all reptiles but in birds and mammals as well. These higher Vertebrates
are therefore called Amniota in contrast to the Lower Vertebrates or Anamnia (the Amphibians,
Fishes, and primitive types).

It is a suggestive fact that the embryos of all reptiles, birds, and mammals show gill-clefts--a
tell-tale evidence of their distant aquatic ancestry. But these embryonic gill-clefts are not
used for respiration and show no trace of gills except in a few embryonic reptiles and birds
where their dwindled vestiges have been recently discovered. As to the gill-clefts, they are
of no use in higher Vertebrates except that the first becomes the Eustachian tube leading from
the ear-passage to the back of the mouth. The reason why they persist when only one is of any
use, and that in a transformed guise, would be difficult to interpret except in terms of the
Evolution theory. They illustrate the lingering influence of a long pedigree, the living hand
of the past, the tendency that individual development has to recapitulate racial evolution.
In a condensed and telescoped manner, of course, for what took the race a million years may
be recapitulated by the individual in a week!

In the Permian period the warm moist climate of most of the Carboniferous period was replaced
by severe conditions, culminating in an Ice Age which spread from the Southern Hemisphere throughout
the world. With this was associated a waning of the Carboniferous flora, and the appearance
of a new one, consisting of ferns, conifers, ginkgos, and cycads, which persisted until near
the end of the Mesozoic era. The Permian Ice Age lasted for millions of years, and was most
severe in the Far South. Of course, it was a very different world then, for North Europe was
joined to North America, Africa to South America, and Australia to Asia. It was probably during
the Permian Ice Age that many of the insects divided their life-history into two main chapters--the
feeding, growing, moulting, immature, larval stages, e.g. caterpillars, and the more ascetic,
non-growing, non-moulting, winged phase, adapted for reproduction. Between these there intervened
the quiescent, well-protected pupa stage or chrysalis, probably adapted to begin with as a
means of surviving the severe winter. For it is easier for an animal to survive when the vital
processes are more or less in abeyance.

Disappearance of many Ancient Types

We cannot leave the last period of the Palæozoic era and its prolonged ice age without noticing
that it meant the entire cessation of a large number of ancient types, especially among plants
and backboneless animals, which now disappear for ever. It is necessary to understand that
the animals of ancient days stand in three different relations to those of to-day. (a) There
are ancient types that have living representatives, sometimes few and sometimes many, sometimes
much changed and sometimes but slightly changed. The lamp-shell, Lingulella, of the Cambrian
and Ordovician period has a very near relative in the Lingula of to-day. There are a few extremely
conservative animals. (b) There are ancient types which have no living representatives, except
in the guise of transformed descendants, as the King-crab (Limulus) may be said to be a transformed
descendant of the otherwise quite extinct race to which Eurypterids or Sea-scorpions belonged.
(c) There are altogether extinct types--lost races--which have left not a wrack behind. For
there is not any representation to-day of such races as Graptolites and Trilobites.

Looking backwards over the many millions of years comprised in the Palæozoic era, what may
we emphasise as the most salient features? There was in the Cambrian the establishment of the
chief classes of backboneless animals; in the Ordovician the first fishes and perhaps the first
terrestrial plants; in the Silurian the emergence of air-breathing Invertebrates and mud-fishes;
in the Devonian the appearance of the first Amphibians, from which all higher land animals
are descended, and the establishment of a land flora; in the Carboniferous the great Club-moss
forests and an exuberance of air-breathing insects and their allies; in the Permian the first
reptiles and a new flora.

THE GEOLOGICAL MIDDLE AGES

§ 1

The Mesozoic Era

In a broad way the Mesozoic era corresponds with the Golden Age of reptiles, and with the climax
of the Conifer and Cycad flora, which was established in the Permian. But among the Conifers
and Cycads our modern flowering plants were beginning to show face tentatively, just like birds
and mammals among the great reptiles.

In the Triassic period the exuberance of reptilian life which marked the Permian was continued.
Besides Turtles which still persist, there were Ichthyosaurs, Plesiosaurs, Dinosaurs, and Pterosaurs,
none of which lasted beyond the Mesozoic era. Of great importance was the rise of the Dinosaurs
in the Triassic, for it is highly probable that within the limits of this vigorous and plastic
stock--some of them bipeds--we must look for the ancestors of both birds and mammals. Both
land and water were dominated by reptiles, some of which attained to gigantic size. Had there
been any zoologist in those days, he would have been very sagacious indeed if he had suspected
that reptiles did not represent the climax of creation.

The Flying Dragons

The Jurassic period showed a continuance of the reptilian splendour. They radiated in many
directions, becoming adapted to many haunts. Thus there were many Fish Lizards paddling in
the seas, many types of terrestrial dragons stalking about on land, many swiftly gliding alligator-like
forms, and the Flying Dragons which began in the Triassic attained to remarkable success and
variety. Their wing was formed by the extension of a great fold of skin on the enormously elongated
outermost finger, and they varied from the size of a sparrow to a spread of over five feet.
A soldering of the dorsal vertebræ as in our Flying Birds was an adaptation to striking the
air with some force, but as there is not more than a slight keel, if any, on the breast-bone,
it is unlikely that they could fly far. For we know from our modern birds that the power of
flight may be to some extent gauged from the degree of development of the keel, which is simply
a great ridge for the better insertion of the muscles of flight. It is absent, of course, in
the Running Birds, like the ostrich, and it has degenerated in an interesting way in the burrowing
parrot (Stringops) and a few other birds that have "gone back."

The First Known Bird

But the Jurassic is particularly memorable because its strata have yielded two fine specimens
of the first known bird, Archæopteryx. These were entombed in the deposits which formed the
fine-grained lithographic stones of Bavaria, and practically every bone in the body is preserved
except the breast-bone. Even the feathers have left their marks with distinctness. This oldest
known bird--too far advanced to be the first bird--was about the size of a crow and was probably
of arboreal habits. Of great interest are its reptilian features, so pronounced that one cannot
evade the evolutionist suggestion. It had teeth in both jaws, which no modern bird has; it
had a long lizard-like tail, which no modern bird has; it had claws on three fingers, and a
sort of half-made wing. That is to say, it does not show, what all modern birds show, a fusion
of half the wrist-bones with the whole of the palm-bones, the well-known carpo-metacarpus bone
which forms a basis for the longest pinions. In many reptiles, such as Crocodiles, there are
peculiar bones running across the abdomen beneath the skin, the so-called "abdominal ribs,"
and it seems an eloquent detail to find these represented in Archæopteryx, the earliest known
bird. No modern bird shows any trace of them. 

There is no warrant for supposing that the flying reptiles or Pterodactyls gave rise to birds,
for the two groups are on different lines, and the structure of the wings is entirely different.
Thus the long-fingered Pterodactyl wing was a parachute wing, while the secret of the bird's
wing has its centre in the feathers. It is highly probable that birds evolved from certain
Dinosaurs which had become bipeds, and it is possible that they were for a time swift runners
that took "flying jumps" along the ground. Thereafter, perhaps, came a period of arboreal apprenticeship
during which there was much gliding from tree to tree before true flight was achieved. It is
an interesting fact that the problem of flight has been solved four times among animals--by
insects, by Pterodactyls, by birds, and by bats; and that the four solutions are on entirely
different lines.

In the Cretaceous period the outstanding events included the waning of giant reptiles, the
modernising of the flowering plants, and the multiplication of small mammals. Some of the Permian
reptiles, such as the dog-toothed Cynodonts, were extraordinarily mammal-like, and it was probably
from among them that definite mammals emerged in the Triassic. Comparatively little is known
of the early Triassic mammals save that their back-teeth were marked by numerous tubercles
on the crown, but they were gaining strength in the late Triassic when small arboreal insectivores,
not very distant from the modern tree-shrews (Tupaia), began to branch out in many directions
indicative of the great divisions of modern mammals, such as the clawed mammals, hoofed mammals,
and the race of monkeys or Primates. In the Upper Cretaceous there was an exuberant "radiation"
of mammals, adaptive to the conquest of all sorts of haunts, and this was vigorously continued
in Tertiary times.

There is no difficulty in the fact that the earliest remains of definite mammals in the Triassic
precede the first-known bird in the Jurassic. For although we usually rank mammals as higher
than birds (being mammals ourselves, how could we do otherwise?), there are many ways in which
birds are pre-eminent, e.g. in skeleton, musculature, integumentary structures, and respiratory
system. The fact is that birds and mammals are on two quite different tacks of evolution, not
related to one another, save in having a common ancestry in extinct reptiles. Moreover, there
is no reason to believe that the Jurassic Archæopteryx was the first bird in any sense except
that it is the first of which we have any record. In any case it is safe to say that birds
came to their own before mammals did.

Looking backwards, we may perhaps sum up what is most essential in the Mesozoic era in Professor
Schuchert's sentence: "The Mesozoic is the Age of Reptiles, and yet the little mammals and
the toothed birds are storing up intelligence and strength to replace the reptiles when the
cycads and conifers shall give way to the higher flowering plants."

§ 2

The Cenozoic or Tertiary Era

In the Eocene period there was a replacement of the small-brained archaic mammals by big-brained
modernised types, and with this must be associated the covering of the earth with a garment
of grass and dry pasture. Marshes were replaced by meadows and browsing by grazing mammals.
In the spreading meadows an opportunity was also offered for a richer evolution of insects
and birds.

During the Oligocene the elevation of the land continued, the climate became much less moist,
and the grazing herds extended their range.

The Miocene was the mammalian Golden Age and there were crowning examples of what Osborn calls
"adaptive radiation." That is to say, mammals, like the reptiles before them, conquer every
haunt of life. There are flying bats, volplaning parachutists, climbers in trees like sloths
and squirrels, quickly moving hoofed mammals, burrowers like the moles, freshwater mammals,
like duckmole and beaver, shore-frequenting seals and manatees, and open-sea cetaceans, some
of which dive far more than full fathoms five. It is important to realise the perennial tendency
of animals to conquer every corner and to fill every niche of opportunity, and to notice that
this has been done by successive sets of animals in succeeding ages. Most notably the mammals
repeat all the experiments of reptiles on a higher turn of the spiral. Thus arises what is
called convergence, the superficial resemblance of unrelated types, like whales and fishes,
the resemblance being due to the fact that the different types are similarly adapted to similar
conditions of life. Professor H. F. Osborn points out that mammals may seek any one of the
twelve different habitat-zones, and that in each of these there may be six quite different
kinds of food. Living creatures penetrate everywhere like the overflowing waters of a great
river in flood.

§ 3

The Pliocene period was a more strenuous time, with less genial climatic conditions, and with
more intense competition. Old land bridges were broken and new ones made, and the geographical
distribution underwent great changes. Professor R. S. Lull describes the Pliocene as "a period
of great unrest." "Many migrations occurred the world over, new competitions arose, and the
weaker stocks began to show the effects of the strenuous life. One momentous event seems to
have occurred in the Pliocene, and that was the transformation of the precursor of humanity
into man--the culmination of the highest line of evolution."

The Pleistocene period was a time of sifting. There was a continued elevation of the continental
masses, and Ice Ages set in, relieved by less severe interglacial times when the ice-sheets
retreated northwards for a time. Many types, like the mammoth, the woolly rhinoceros, the sabre-toothed
tiger, the cave-lion, and the cave-bear, became extinct. Others which formerly had a wide range
became restricted to the Far North or were left isolated here and there on the high mountains,
like the Snow Mouse, which now occurs on isolated Alpine heights above the snow-line. Perhaps
it was during this period that many birds of the Northern Hemisphere learned to evade the winter
by the sublime device of migration.

Looking backwards we may quote Professor Schuchert again:

    "The lands in the Cenozoic began to bloom with more and more
    flowering plants and grand hardwood forests, the atmosphere is
    scented with sweet odours, a vast crowd of new kinds of insects
    appear, and the places of the once dominant reptiles of the lands
    and seas are taken by the mammals. Out of these struggles there
    rises a greater intelligence, seen in nearly all of the mammal
    stocks, but particularly in one, the monkey-ape-man. Brute man
    appears on the scene with the introduction of the last glacial
    climate, a most trying time for all things endowed with life, and
    finally there results the dominance of reasoning man over all his
    brute associates."

In man and human society the story of evolution has its climax.

The Ascent of Man

Man stands apart from animals in his power of building up general ideas and of using these
in the guidance of his behaviour and the control of his conduct. This is essentially wrapped
up with his development of language as an instrument of thought. Some animals have words, but
man has language (Logos). Some animals show evidence of perceptual inference, but man often
gets beyond this to conceptual inference (Reason). Many animals are affectionate and brave,
self-forgetful and industrious, but man "thinks the ought," definitely guiding his conduct
in the light of ideals, which in turn are wrapped up with the fact that he is "a social person."

Besides his big brain, which may be three times as heavy as that of a gorilla, man has various
physical peculiarities. He walks erect, he plants the sole of his foot flat on the ground,
he has a chin and a good heel, a big forehead and a non-protrusive face, a relatively uniform
set of teeth without conspicuous canines, and a relatively naked body.

But in spite of man's undeniable apartness, there is no doubt as to his solidarity with the
rest of creation. There is an "all-pervading similitude of structure," between man and the
Anthropoid Apes, though it is certain that it is not from any living form that he took his
origin. None of the anatomical distinctions, except the heavy brain, could be called momentous.
Man's body is a veritable museum of relics (vestigial structures) inherited from pre-human
ancestors. In his everyday bodily life and in some of its disturbances, man's pedigree is often
revealed. Even his facial expression, as Darwin showed, is not always human. Some fossil remains
bring modern man nearer the anthropoid type.

THE EVOLVING SYSTEM OF NATURE

There is another side of evolution so obvious that it is often overlooked, the tendency to
link lives together in vital inter-relations. Thus flowers and their insect visitors are often
vitally interlinked in mutual dependence. Many birds feed on berries and distribute the seeds.
The tiny freshwater snail is the host of the juvenile stages of the liver-fluke of the sheep.
The mosquito is the vehicle of malaria from man to man, and the tse-tse fly spreads sleeping
sickness. The freshwater mussel cannot continue its race without the unconscious co-operation
of the minnow, and the freshwater fish called the bitterling cannot continue its race without
the unconscious co-operation of the mussel. There are numerous mutually beneficial partnerships
between different kinds of creatures, and other inter-relations where the benefit is one-sided,
as in the case of insects that make galls on plants. There are also among kindred animals many
forms of colonies, communities, and societies. Nutritive chains bind long series of animals
together, the cod feeding on the whelk, the whelk on the worm, the worm on the organic dust
of the sea. There is a system of successive incarnations and matter is continually passing
from one embodiment to another. These instances must suffice to illustrate the central biological
idea of the web of life, the interlinked System of Animate Nature. Linnæus spoke of the Systema
Naturæ, meaning the orderly hierarchy of classes, orders, families, genera, and species; but
we owe to Darwin in particular some knowledge of a more dynamic Systema Naturæ, the network
of vital inter-relations. This has become more and more complex as evolution has continued,
and man's web is most complex of all. It means making Animate Nature more of a unity; it means
an external method of registering steps of progress; it means an evolving set of sieves by
which new variations are sifted, and living creatures are kept from slipping down the steep
ladder of evolution.

Parasitism

It sometimes happens that the inter-relation established between one living creature and another
works in a retrograde direction. This is the case with many thoroughgoing internal parasites
which have sunk into an easygoing kind of life, utterly dependent on their host for food, requiring
no exertions, running no risks, and receiving no spur to effort. Thus we see that evolution
is not necessarily progressive; everything depends on the conditions in reference to which
the living creatures have been evolved. When the conditions are too easygoing, the animal may
be thoroughly well adapted to them--as a tapeworm certainly is--but it slips down the rungs
of the ladder of evolution.

This is an interesting minor chapter in the story of evolution--the establishment of different
kinds of parasites, casual and constant, temporary and lifelong, external hangers-on and internal
unpaying boarders, those that live in the food-canal and depend on the host's food and those
that inhabit the blood or the tissues and find their food there. It seems clear that ichneumon
grubs and the like which hatch inside a caterpillar and eat it alive are not so much parasites
as "beasts of prey" working from within.

But there are two sides to this minor chapter: there is the evolution of the parasite, and
there is also the evolution of counteractive measures on the part of the host. Thus there is
the maintenance of a bodyguard of wandering amoeboid cells, which tackle the microbes invading
the body and often succeed in overpowering and digesting them. Thus, again, there is the protective
capacity the blood has of making antagonistic substances or "anti-bodies" which counteract
poisons, including the poisons which the intruding parasites often make.

THE EVIDENCES OF EVOLUTION--HOW IT CAME ABOUT

§ 1

Progress in Evolution

There has often been slipping back and degeneracy in the course of evolution, but the big fact
is that there has been progress. For millions of years Life has been slowly creeping upwards,
and if we compare the highest animals--Birds and Mammals--with their predecessors, we must
admit that they are more controlled, more masters of their fate, with more mentality. Evolution
is on the whole integrative; that is to say, it makes against instability and disorder, and
towards harmony and progress. Even in the rise of Birds and Mammals we can discern that the
evolutionary process was making towards a fuller embodiment or expression of what Man values
most--control, freedom, understanding, and love. The advance of animal life through the ages
has been chequered, but on the whole it has been an advance towards increasing fullness, freedom,
and fitness of life. In the study of this advance--the central fact of Organic Evolution--there
is assuredly much for Man's instruction and much for his encouragement.

Evidences of Evolution

In all this, it may be said, the fact of evolution has been taken for granted, but what are
the evidences? Perhaps it should be frankly answered that the idea of evolution, that the present
is the child of the past and the parent of the future, cannot be proved as one may prove the
Law of Gravitation. All that can be done is to show that it is a key--a way of looking at things--that
fits the facts. There is no lock that it does not open.

But if the facts that the evolution theory vividly interprets be called the evidences of its
validity, there is no lack of them. There is historical evidence; and what is more eloquent
than the general fact that fishes emerge before amphibians, and these before reptiles, and
these before birds, and so on? There are wonderfully complete fossil series, e.g. among cuttlefishes,
in which we can almost see evolution in process. The pedigree of horse and elephant and crocodile
is in general very convincing, though it is to be confessed that there are other cases in regard
to which we have no light. Who can tell, for instance, how Vertebrates arose or from what origin?

There is embryological evidence, for the individual development often reads like an abbreviated
recapitulation of the presumed evolution of the race. The mammal's visceral clefts are tell-tale
evidence of remote aquatic ancestors, breathing by gills. Something is known in regard to the
historical evolution of antlers in bygone ages; the Red Deer of to-day recapitulates at least
the general outlines of the history. The individual development of an asymmetrical flat-fish,
like a plaice or sole, which rests and swims on one side, tells us plainly that its ancestors
were symmetrical fishes.

There is what might be called physiological evidence, for many plants and animals are variable
before our eyes, and evolution is going on around us to-day. This is familiarly seen among
domesticated animals and cultivated plants, but there is abundant flux in Wild Nature. It need
hardly be said that some organisms are very conservative, and that change need not be expected
when a position of stable equilibrium has been secured.

There is also anatomical evidence of a most convincing quality. In the fore-limbs of backboned
animals, say, the paddle of a turtle, the wing of a bird, the flipper of a whale, the fore-leg
of a horse, and the arm of a man; the same essential bones and muscles are used to such diverse
results! What could it mean save blood relationship? And as to the two sets of teeth in whalebone
whales, which never even cut the gum, is there any alternative but to regard them as relics
of useful teeth which ancestral forms possessed? In short, the evolution theory is justified
by the way in which it works.

§ 2

Factors in Evolution

If it be said "So much for the fact of evolution, but what of the factors?" the answer is not
easy. For not only is the problem the greatest of all scientific problems, but the inquiry
is still very young. The scientific study of evolution practically dates from the publication
of The Origin of Species in 1859.

Heritable novelties or variations often crop up in living creatures, and these form the raw
material of evolution. These variations are the outcome of expression of changes in the germ-cells
that develop into organisms. But why should there be changes in the constitution of the germ-cells?
Perhaps because the living material is very complex and inherently liable to change; perhaps
because it is the vehicle of a multitude of hereditary items among which there are very likely
to be reshufflings or rearrangements; perhaps because the germ-cells have very changeful surroundings
(the blood, the body-cavity fluid, the sea-water); perhaps because deeply saturating outside
influences, such as change of climate and habitat, penetrate through the body to its germ-cells
and provoke them to vary. But we must be patient with the wearisome reiteration of "perhaps."
Moreover, every many-celled organism reproduced in the usual way, arises from an egg-cell fertilised
by a sperm-cell, and the changes involved in and preparatory to this fertilisation may make
new permutations and combinations of the living items and hereditary qualities not only possible
but necessary. It is something like shuffling a pack of cards, but the cards are living. As
to the changes wrought on the body during its lifetime by peculiarities in nurture, habits,
and surroundings, these dents or modifications are often very important for the individual,
but it does not follow that they are directly important for the race, since it is not certain
that they are transmissible.

Given a crop of variations or new departures or mutations, whatever the inborn novelties may
be called, we have then to inquire how these are sifted. The sifting, which means the elimination
of the relatively less fit variations and the selection of the relatively more fit, effected
in many different ways in the course of the struggle for existence. The organism plays its
new card in the game of life, and the consequences may determine survival. The relatively less
fit to given conditions will tend to be eliminated, while the relatively more fit will tend
to survive. If the variations are hereditary and reappear, perhaps increased in amount, generation
after generation, and if the process of sifting continue consistently, the result will be the
evolution of the species. The sifting process may be helped by various forms of "isolation"
which lessen the range of free intercrossing between members of a species, e.g. by geographical
barriers. Interbreeding of similar forms tends to make a stable stock; out-breeding among dissimilars
tends to promote variability. But for an outline like this it is enough to suggest the general
method of organic evolution: Throughout the ages organisms have been making tentatives--new
departures of varying magnitude--and these tentatives have been tested. The method is that
of testing all things and holding fast that which is good.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

(The following short list may be useful to readers who desire to have further books recommended
to them.)

 CLODD, Story of Creation: A Plain Account of Evolution.
 DARWIN, Origin of Species, Descent of Man.
 DEPERET, Transformation of the Animal World (Internat. Sci. Series).
 GEDDES AND THOMSON, Evolution (Home University Library).
 GOODRICH, Evolution (The People's Books).
 HEADLEY, Life and Evolution.
 HUTCHINSON, H. NEVILLE, Extinct Monsters (1892).
 LULL, Organic Evolution.
 MCCABE, A B C of Evolution.
 METCALF, Outline of the Theory of Organic Evolution.
 OSBORN, H. F., The Evolution of Life (1921).
 THOMSON, Darwinism and Human Life.
 WALLACE, Darwinism.

III

ADAPTATIONS TO ENVIRONMENT

ADAPTATIONS TO ENVIRONMENT

We saw in a previous chapter how the process of evolution led to a mastery of all the haunts
of life. But it is necessary to return to these haunts or homes of animals in some detail,
so as to understand the peculiar circumstances of each, and to see how in the course of ages
of struggle all sorts of self-preserving and race-continuing adaptations or fitnesses have
been wrought out and firmly established. Living creatures have spread over all the earth and
in the waters under the earth; some of them have conquered the underground world and others
the air. It is possible, however, as has been indicated, to distinguish six great haunts of
life, each tenanted by a distinctive fauna, namely, the shore of the sea, the open sea, the
depths of the sea, the freshwaters, the dry land, and the air. In the deep sea there are no
plants at all; in the air the only plants are floating bacteria, though there is a sense in
which a tree is very aerial, and the orchid perched on its branches still more so; in the other
four haunts there is a flora as well as a fauna--the two working into one another's hands in
interesting and often subtle inter-relations--the subject of a separate study.

I. THE SHORE OF THE SEA

The Seaweed Area

By the shore of the sea the zoologist means much more than the narrow zone between tide-marks;
he means the whole of the relatively shallow, well-illumined, seaweed-growing shelf around
the continents and continental islands. Technically, this is called the littoral area, and
it is divisible into zones, each with its characteristic population. It may be noted that the
green seaweeds are highest up on the shore; the brown ones come next; the beautiful red ones
are lowest. All of them have got green chlorophyll, which enables them to utilise the sun's
rays in photosynthesis (i.e. building up carbon compounds from air, water, and salts), but
in the brown and red seaweeds the green pigment is masked by others. It is maintained by some
botanists that these other pigments enable their possessors to make more of the scantier light
in the deeper waters. However this may be, we must always think of the shore-haunt as the seaweed-growing
area. Directly and indirectly the life of the shore animals is closely wrapped up with the
seaweeds, which afford food and foothold, and temper the force of the waves. The minute fragments
broken off from seaweeds and from the sea-grass (a flowering plant called Zostera) form a sort
of nutritive sea-dust which is swept slowly down the slope from the shore, to form a very useful
deposit in the quietness of deepish water. It is often found in the stomachs of marine animals
living a long way offshore.

Conditions of Shore Life

The littoral area as defined is not a large haunt of life; it occupies only about 9 million
square miles, a small fraction of the 197,000,000 of the whole earth's surface. But it is a
very long haunt, some 150,000 miles, winding in and out by bay and fiord, estuary and creek.
Where deep water comes close to cliffs there may be no shore at all; in other places the relatively
shallow water, with seaweeds growing over the bottom, may extend outwards for miles. The nature
of the shore varies greatly according to the nature of the rocks, according to what the streams
bring down from inland, and according to the jetsam that is brought in by the tides. The shore
is a changeful place; there is, in the upper reaches, a striking difference between "tide in"
and "tide out"; there are vicissitudes due to storms, to freshwater floods, to wind-blown sand,
and to slow changes of level, up and down. The shore is a very crowded haunt, for it is comparatively
narrow, and every niche among the rocks may be precious.

Keen Struggle for Existence

It follows that the shore must be the scene of a keen struggle for existence--which includes
all the answers-back that living creatures make to environing difficulties and limitations.
There is struggle for food, accentuated by the fact that small items tend to be swept away
by the outgoing tide or to sink down the slope to deep water. Apart from direct competition,
e.g. between hungry hermit-crabs, it often involves hard work to get a meal. This is true even
of apparently sluggish creatures. Thus the Crumb-of-Bread Sponge, or any other seashore sponge,
has to lash large quantities of water through the intricate canal system of its body before
it can get a sufficient supply of the microscopic organisms and organic particles on which
it feeds. An index of the intensity of the struggle for food is afforded by the nutritive chains
which bind animals together. The shore is almost noisy with the conjugation of the verb to
eat in its many tenses. One pound of rock-cod requires for its formation ten pounds of whelk;
one pound of whelk requires ten pounds of sea-worms; and one pound of worms requires ten pounds
of sea-dust. Such is the circulation of matter, ever passing from one embodiment or incarnation
to another.

Besides struggle for food there is struggle for foothold and for fresh air, struggle against
the scouring tide and against the pounding breakers. The risk of dislodgment is often great
and the fracture of limbs is a common accident. Of kinds of armour--the sea-urchin's hedgehog-like
test, the crab's shard, the limpet's shell--there is great variety, surpassed only by that
of weapons--the sea-anemone's stinging-cells, the sea-urchin's snapping-blades, the hermit-crab's
forceps, the grappling tentacles and parrot's-beak jaws of the octopus.

Shifts for a Living

We get another glimpse of the intensity of the seashore struggle for existence in the frequency
of "shifts for a living," adaptations of structure or of behaviour which meet frequently recurrent
vicissitudes. The starfish is often in the dilemma of losing a limb or its life; by a reflex
action it jettisons the captured arm and escapes. And what is lost is gradually regrown. The
crab gets its leg broken past all mending; it casts off the leg across a weak breakage plane
near the base, and within a preformed bandage which prevents bleeding a new leg is formed in
miniature. Such is the adaptive device--more reflex than reflective--which is called self-mutilation
or autotomy.

In another part of this book there is a discussion of camouflaging and protective resemblance;
how abundantly these are illustrated on the shore! But there are other "shifts for a living."
Some of the sand-hoppers and their relatives illustrate the puzzling phenomenon of "feigning
death," becoming suddenly so motionless that they escape the eyes of their enemies. Cuttlefishes,
by discharging sepia from their ink-bags, are able to throw dust in the eyes of their enemies.
Some undisguised shore-animals, e.g. crabs, are adepts in a hide-and-seek game; some fishes,
like the butterfish or gunnel, escape between stones where there seemed no opening and are
almost uncatchable in their slipperiness. Subtlest of all, perhaps, is the habit some hermit-crabs
have of entering into mutually beneficial partnership (commensalism) with sea-anemones, which
mask their bearers and also serve as mounted batteries, getting transport as their reward and
likewise crumbs from the frequently spread table. But enough has been said to show that the
shore-haunt exhibits an extraordinary variety of shifts for a living.

Parental Care on the Shore

According to Darwin, the struggle for existence, as a big fact in the economy of Animate Nature,
includes not only competition but all the endeavours which secure the welfare of the offspring,
and give them a good send-off in life. So it is without a jolt that we pass from struggle for
food and foothold to parental care. The marine leech called Pontobdella, an interesting greenish
warty creature fond of fixing itself to skate, places its egg-cocoons in the empty shell of
a bivalve mollusc, and guards them for weeks, removing any mud that might injure their development.
We have seen a British starfish with its fully-formed young ones creeping about on its body,
though the usual mode of development for shore starfishes is that the young ones pass through
a free-swimming larval period in the open water. The father sea-spider carries about the eggs
attached to two of his limbs; the father sea-horse puts his mate's eggs into his breast pocket
and carries them there in safety until they are hatched; the father stickleback of the shore-pools
makes a seaweed nest and guards the eggs which his wives are induced to lay there; the father
lumpsucker mounts guard over the bunch of pinkish eggs which his mate has laid in a nook of
a rocky shore-pool, and drives off intruders with zest. He also aerates the developing eggs
by frequent paddling with his pectoral fins and tail, as the Scots name Cock-paidle probably
suggests. It is interesting that the salient examples of parental care in the shore-haunt are
mostly on the male parent's side. But there is maternal virtue as well.

The fauna of the shore is remarkably representative--from unicellular Protozoa to birds like
the oyster-catcher and mammals like the seals. Almost all the great groups of animals have
apparently served an apprenticeship in the shore-haunt, and since lessons learned for millions
of years sink in and become organically enregistered, it is justifiable to look to the shore
as a great school in which were gained racial qualities of endurance, patience, and alertness.

II. THE OPEN SEA

In great contrast to the narrow, crowded, difficult conditions of the shore-haunt (littoral
area) are the spacious, bountiful, and relatively easygoing conditions of the open sea (pelagic
area), which means the well-lighted surface waters quite away from land. Many small organisms
have their maximum abundance at about fifty fathoms, so that the word "surface" is to be taken
generously. The light becomes very dim at 250 fathoms, and the open sea, as a zoological haunt,
stops with the light. It is hardly necessary to say that the pelagic plants are more abundant
near the surface, and that below a certain depth the population consists almost exclusively
of animals. Not a few of the animals sink and rise in the water periodically; there are some
that come near the surface by day, and others that come near the surface by night. Of great
interest is the habit of the extremely delicate Ctenophores or "sea-gooseberries," which the
splash of a wave would tear into shreds. Whenever there is any hint of a storm they sink beyond
its reach, and the ocean's surface must have remained flat as a mirror for many hours before
they can be lured upwards from the calm of their deep retreat.

The Floating Sea-meadows

To understand the vital economy of the open sea, we must recognise the incalculable abundance
of minute unicellular plants, for they form the fundamental food-supply. Along with these must
also be included numerous microscopic animals which have got possession of chlorophyll, or
have entered into internal partnership with unicellular Algæ (symbiosis). These green or greenish
plants and animals are the producers, using the energy of the sunlight to help them in building
up carbon compounds out of air, water, and salts. The animals which feed on the producers,
or on other animals, are the consumers. Between the two come those open-sea bacteria that convert
nitrogenous material, e.g. from dead plants or animals that other bacteria have rotted, into
forms, e.g. nitrates, which plants can re-utilise. The importance of these middlemen is great
in keeping "the circulation of matter" agoing.

The "floating sea-meadows," as Sir John Murray called them, are always receiving contributions
from inshore waters, where the conditions are favourable for the prolific multiplication of
unicellular Algæ, and there is also a certain amount of non-living sea-dust always being swept
out from the seaweed and sea-grass area.

Swimmers and Drifters

The animals of the open sea are conveniently divided into the active swimmers (Nekton) and
the more passive drifters (Plankton). The swimmers include whales great and small, such birds
as the storm petrel, the fish-eating turtles and sea-snakes, such fishes as mackerel and herring,
the winged snails or sea-butterflies on which whalebone whales largely feed, some of the active
cuttles or squids, various open-sea prawns and their relatives, some worms like the transparent
arrow-worm, and such active Protozoa as Noctiluca, whose luminescence makes the waves sparkle
in the short summer darkness. Very striking as an instance of the insurgence of life are the
sea-skimmers (Halobatidæ), wingless insects related to the water-measurers in the ditch. They
are found hundreds of miles from land, skimming on the surface of the open sea, and diving
in stormy weather. They feed on floating dead animals.

The drifters or easygoing swimmers--for there is no hard and fast line--are represented, for
instance, by the flinty-shelled Radiolarians and certain of the chalk-forming animals (Globigerinid
Foraminifera); by jellyfishes, swimming-bells, and Portuguese men-of-war; by the comb-bearers
or Ctenophores; by legions of minute Crustaceans; by strange animals called Salps, related
to the sedentary sea-squirts; and by some sluggish fishes like globe-fishes, which often float
idly on the surface.

Open-sea animals tend to be delicately built, with a specific gravity near that of the sea-water,
with adaptations, such as projecting filaments, which help flotation, and with capacities of
rising and sinking according to the surrounding conditions. Many of them are luminescent, and
many of them are very inconspicuous in the water owing to their transparency or their bluish
colour. In both cases the significance is obscure.

Hunger and Love

Hunger is often very much in evidence in the open sea, especially in areas where the Plankton
is poor. For there is great diversity in this respect, most of the Mediterranean, for instance,
having a scanty Plankton as compared with the North Sea. In the South Pacific, west of Patagonia,
there is said to be an immense "sea desert" where there is little Plankton, and therefore little
in the way of fishes. The success of fisheries in the North, e.g. on the Atlantic cod-banks,
is due to the richness of the floating sea-meadows and the abundance of the smaller constituents
of the animal Plankton.

Hunger is plain enough when the Baleen Whale rushes through the water with open jaws, engulfing
in the huge cavern of its mouth, where the pendent whalebone plates form a huge sieve, incalculable
millions of small fry.

But there is love as well as hunger in the open sea. The maternal care exhibited by the whale
reaches a very high level, and the delicate shell of the female Paper Nautilus or Argonaut,
in which the eggs and the young ones are sheltered, may well be described as "the most beautiful
cradle in the world."

Besides the permanent inhabitants of the open sea, there are the larval stages of many shore-animals
which are there only for a short time. For there is an interesting give and take between the
shore-haunt and the open sea. From the shore come nutritive contributions and minute organisms
which multiply quickly in the open waters. But not less important is the fact that the open
waters afford a safe cradle or nursery for many a delicate larva, e.g. of crab and starfish,
acorn-shell and sea-urchin, which could not survive for a day in the rough-and-tumble conditions
of the shore and the shallow water. After undergoing radical changes and gaining strength,
the young creatures return to the shore in various ways.

III. THE DEEP SEA

Very different from all the other haunts are the depths of the sea, including the floor of
the abysses and the zones of water near the bottom. This haunt, forever unseen, occupies more
than a third of the earth's surface, and it is thickly peopled. It came into emphatic notice
in connection with the mending of telegraph cables, but the results of the Challenger expedition
(1873-6) gave the first impressive picture of what was practically a new world.

Physical Conditions

The average depth of the ocean is about two and a half miles; therefore, since many parts are
relatively shallow, there must be enormous depths. A few of these, technically called "deeps,"
are about six miles deep, in which Mount Everest would be engulfed. There is enormous pressure
in such depths; even at 2,500 fathoms it is two and a half tons on the square inch. The temperature
is on and off the freezing-point of fresh water (28°-34° Fahr.), due to the continual sinking
down of cold water from the Poles, especially from the South. Apart from the fitful gleams
of luminescent animals, there is utter darkness in the deep waters. The rays of sunlight are
practically extinguished at 250 fathoms, though very sensitive bromogelatine plates exposed
at 500 fathoms have shown faint indications even at that depth. It is a world of absolute calm
and silence, and there is no scenery on the floor. A deep, cold, dark, silent, monotonous world!

Biological Conditions

While some parts of the floor of the abysses are more thickly peopled than others, there is
no depth limit to the distribution of life. Wherever the long arm of the dredge has reached,
animals have been found, e.g. Protozoa, sponges, corals, worms, starfishes, sea-urchins, sea-lilies,
crustaceans, lamp-shells, molluscs, ascidians, and fishes--a very representative fauna. In
the absence of light there can be no chlorophyll-possessing plants, and as the animals cannot
all be eating one another there must be an extraneous source of food-supply. This is found
in the sinking down of minute organisms which are killed on the surface by changes of temperature
and other causes. What is left of them, before or after being swallowed, and of sea-dust and
mineral particles of various kinds forms the diversified "ooze" of the sea-floor, a soft muddy
precipitate, which is said to have in places the consistence of butter in summer weather.

There seems to be no bacteria in the abysses, so there can be no rotting. Everything that sinks
down, even the huge carcase of a whale, must be nibbled away by hungry animals and digested,
or else, in the case of most bones, slowly dissolved away. Of the whale there are left only
the ear-bones, of the shark his teeth.

Adaptations to Deep-sea Life

In adaptation to the great pressure the bodies of deep-sea animals are usually very permeable,
so that the water gets through and through them, as in the case of Venus' Flower Basket, a
flinty sponge which a child's finger would shiver. But when the pressure inside is the same
as that outside nothing happens. In adaptation to the treacherous ooze, so apt to smother,
many of the active deep-sea animals have very long, stilt-like legs, and many of the sedentary
types are lifted into safety on the end of long stalks which have their bases embedded in the
mud. In adaptation to the darkness, in which there is only luminescence that eyes could use,
there is a great development of tactility. The interesting problem of luminescence will be
discussed elsewhere.

As to the origin of the deep-sea fauna, there seems no doubt that it has arisen by many contributions
from the various shore-haunts. Following the down-drifting food, many shore-animals have in
the course of many generations reached the world of eternal night and winter, and become adapted
to its strange conditions. For the animals of the deep-sea are as fit, beautiful, and vigorous
as those elsewhere. There are no slums in Nature.

IV. THE FRESH WATERS

Of the whole earth's surface the freshwaters form a very small fraction, about a hundredth,
but they make up for their smallness by their variety. We think of deep lake and shallow pond,
of the great river and the purling brook, of lagoon and swamp, and more besides. There is a
striking resemblance in the animal population of widely separated freshwater basins: and this
is partly because birds carry many small creatures on their muddy feet from one water-shed
to another; partly because some of the freshwater animals are descended from types which make
their way from the sea and the seashore through estuaries and marshes, and only certain kinds
of constitution could survive the migration; and partly because some lakes are landlocked dwindling
relics of ancient seas, and similar forms again would survive the change.

A typical assemblage of freshwater animals would include many Protozoa, like Amoebæ and the
Bell-Animalcules, a representative of one family of sponges (Spongillidæ), the common Hydra,
many unsegmented worms (notably Planarians and Nematodes), many Annelids related to the earthworms,
many crustaceans, insects, and mites, many bivalves and snails, various fishes, a newt or two,
perhaps a little mud-turtle or in warm countries a huge Crocodilian, various interesting birds
like the water-ouzel or dipper, and mammals like the water-vole and the water-shrew.

Freshwater animals have to face certain difficulties, the greatest of which are drought, frost,
and being washed away in times of flood. There is no more interesting study in the world than
an inquiry into the adaptations by which freshwater animals overcome the difficulties of the
situation. We cannot give more than a few illustrations.

(1) Drought is circumvented by the capacity that many freshwater animals have of lying low
and saying nothing. Thus the African mudfish may spend half the year encased in the mud, and
many minute crustaceans can survive being dried up for years. (2) Escape from the danger of
being frozen hard in the pool is largely due to the almost unique property of water that it
expands as it approaches the freezing-point. Thus the colder water rises to the surface and
forms or adds to the protecting blanket of ice. The warmer water remains unfrozen at the bottom,
and the animals live on. (3) The risk of being washed away, e.g. to the sea, is lessened by
all sorts of gripping, grappling, and anchoring structures, and by shortening the juvenile
stages when the risks are greatest.

V. THE DRY LAND

Over and over again in the history of animal life there have been attempts to get out of the
water on to terra firma, and many of these have been successful, notably those made (1) by
worms, (2) by air-breathing Arthropods, and (3) by amphibians.

In thinking of the conquest of the dry land by animals, we must recognise the indispensable
rôle of plants in preparing the way. The dry ground would have proved too inhospitable had
not terrestrial plants begun to establish themselves, affording food, shelter, and humidity.
There had to be plants before there could be earthworms, which feed on decaying leaves and
the like, but how soon was the debt repaid when the earthworms began their worldwide task of
forming vegetable mould, opening up the earth with their burrows, circulating the soil by means
of their castings, and bruising the particles in their gizzard--certainly the most important
mill in the world.

Another important idea is that littoral haunts, both on the seashore and in the freshwaters,
afforded the necessary apprenticeship and transitional experience for the more strenuous life
on dry land. Much that was perfected on land had its beginnings on the shore. Let us inquire,
however, what the passage from water to dry land actually implied. This has been briefly discussed
in a previous article (on Evolution), but the subject is one of great interest and importance.

Difficulties and Results of the Transition from Water to Land

Leaving the water for dry land implied a loss in freedom of movement, for the terrestrial animal
is primarily restricted to the surface of the earth. Thus it became essential that movements
should be very rapid and very precise, needs with which we may associate the acquisition of
fine cross-striped, quickly contracting muscles, and also, in time, their multiplication into
very numerous separate engines. We exercise fifty-four muscles in the half-second that elapses
between raising the heel of our foot in walking and planting it firmly on the ground again.
Moreover, the need for rapid precisely controlled movements implied an improved nervous system,
for the brain was a movement-controlling organ for ages before it did much in the way of thinking.
The transition to terra firma also involved a greater compactness of body, so that there should
not be too great friction on the surface. An animal like the jellyfish is unthinkable on land,
and the elongated bodies of some land animals like centipedes and snakes are specially adapted
so that they do not "sprawl." They are exceptions that prove the rule.

Getting on to dry land meant entering a kingdom where the differences between day and night,
between summer and winter are more felt than in the sea. This made it advantageous to have
protections against evaporation and loss of heat and other such dangers. Hence a variety of
ways in which the surface of the body acquired a thickened skin, or a dead cuticle, or a shell,
or a growth of hair, and so forth. In many cases there is an increase of the protection before
the winter sets in, e.g. by growing thicker fur or by accumulating a layer of fat below the skin.

But the thickening or protection of the skin involved a partial or total loss of the skin as
a respiratory surface. There is more oxygen available on dry land than in the water, but it
is not so readily captured. Thus we see the importance of moist internal surfaces for capturing
the oxygen which has been drawn into the interior of the body into some sort of lung. A unique
solution was offered by Tracheate Arthropods, such as Peripatus, Centipedes, Millipedes, and
Insects, where the air is carried to every hole and corner of the body by a ramifying system
of air-tubes or tracheæ. In most animals the blood goes to the air, in insects the air goes
to the blood. In the Robber-Crab, which has migrated from the shore inland, the dry air is
absorbed by vascular tufts growing under the shelter of the gill-cover.

The problem of disposing of eggs or young ones is obviously much more difficult on land than
in the water. For the water offers an immediate cradle, whereas on the dry land there were
many dangers, e.g. of drought, extremes of temperature, and hungry sharp-eyed enemies, which
had to be circumvented. So we find all manner of ways in which land animals hide their eggs
or their young ones in holes and nests, on herbs and on trees. Some carry their young ones
about after they are born, like the Surinam toad and the kangaroo, while others have prolonged
the period of ante-natal life during which the young ones develop in safety within their mother,
and in very intimate partnership with her in the case of the placental mammals. It is very
interesting to find that the pioneer animal called Peripatus, which bridges the gap between
worms and insects, carries its young for almost a year before birth.

Enough has been said to show that the successive conquests of the dry land had great evolutionary
results. It is hardly too much to say that the invasion which the Amphibians led was the beginning
of better brains, more controlled activities, and higher expressions of family life.

VI. THE AIR

There are no animals thoroughly aerial, but many insects spend much of their adult life in
the free air, and the swift hardly pauses in its flight from dawn to dusk of the long summer
day, alighting only for brief moments at the nest to deliver insects to the young. All the
active life of bats certainly deserves to be called aerial.

The air was the last haunt of life to be conquered, and it is interesting to inquire what the
conquest implied. (1) It meant transcending the radical difficulty of terrestrial life which
confines the creatures of the dry land to moving on one plane, the surface of the earth. But
the power of flight brought its possessors back to the universal freedom of movement which
water animals enjoy. When we watch a sparrow rise into the air just as the cat has completed
her stealthy stalking, we see that flight implies an enormous increase of safety. (2) The power
of flight also opened up new possibilities of following the prey, of exploring new territories,
of prospecting for water. (3) Of great importance too was the practicability of placing the
eggs and the young, perhaps in a nest, in some place inaccessible to most enemies. When one
thinks of it, the rooks' nests swaying on the tree-tops express the climax of a brilliant experiment.
(4) The crowning advantage was the possibility of migrating, of conquering time (by circumventing
the arid summer and the severe winter) and of conquering space (by passing quickly from one
country to another and sometimes almost girdling the globe). There are not many acquisitions
that have meant more to their possessors than the power of flight. It was a key opening the
doors of a new freedom.

The problem of flight, as has been said in a previous chapter, has been solved four times,
and the solution has been different in each case. The four solutions are those offered by insects,
extinct Pterodactyls, birds, and bats. Moreover, as has been pointed out, there have been numerous
attempts at flight which remain glorious failures, notably the flying fishes, which take a
great leap and hold their pectoral fins taut; the Flying Tree-Toad, whose webbed fingers and
toes form a parachute; the Flying Lizard (Draco volans), which has its skin pushed out on five
or six greatly elongated mobile ribs; and various "flying" mammals, e.g. Flying Phalangers
and Flying Squirrels, which take great swooping leaps from tree to tree.

The wings of an insect are hollow flattened sacs which grow out from the upper parts of the
sides of the second and third rings of the region called the thorax. They are worked by powerful
muscles, and are supported, like a fan, by ribs of chitin, which may be accompanied by air-tubes,
blood-channels, and nerves. The insect's body is lightly built and very perfectly aerated,
and the principle of the insect's flight is the extremely rapid striking of the air by means
of the lightly built elastic wings. Many an insect has over two hundred strokes of its wings
in one second. Hence, in many cases, the familiar hum, comparable on a small scale to that
produced by the rapidly revolving blades of an aeroplane's propeller. For a short distance
a bee can outfly a pigeon, but few insects can fly far, and they are easily blown away or blown
back by the wind. Dragon-flies and bees may be cited as examples of insects that often fly
for two or three miles. But this is exceptional, and the usual shortness of insect flight is
an important fact for man since it limits the range of insects like house-flies and mosquitoes
which are vehicles of typhoid fever and malaria respectively. The most primitive insects (spring-tails
and bristle-tails) show no trace of wings, while fleas and lice have become secondarily wingless.
It is interesting to notice that some insects only fly once in their lifetime, namely, in connection
with mating. The evolution of the insect's wing remains quite obscure, but it is probable that
insects could run, leap, and parachute before they could actually fly.

The extinct Flying Dragons or Pterodactyls had their golden age in the Cretaceous era, after
which they disappeared, leaving no descendants. A fold of skin was spread out from the sides
of the body by the enormously elongated outermost finger (usually regarded as corresponding
to our little finger); it was continued to the hind-legs and thence to the tail.

It is unlikely that the Pterodactyls could fly far, for they have at most a weak keel on their
breast-bone; on the other hand, some of them show a marked fusion of dorsal vertebræ, which,
as in flying birds, must have served as a firm fulcrum for the stroke of the wings. The quaint
creatures varied from the size of a sparrow up to a magnificent spread of 15-20 feet from tip
to tip of the wings. They were the largest of all flying creatures.

The bird's solution of the problem of flight, which will be discussed separately, is centred
in the feather, which forms a coherent vane for striking the air. In Pterodactyl and bat the
wing is a web-wing or patagium, and a small web is to be seen on the front side of the bird's
wing. But the bird's patagium is unimportant, and the bird's wing is on an evolutionary tack
of its own--a fore-limb transformed for bearing the feathers of flight. Feathers are in a general
way comparable to the scales of reptiles, but only in a general way, and no transition stage
is known between the two. Birds evolved from a bipedal Dinosaur stock, as has been noticed
already, and it is highly probable that they began their ascent by taking running leaps along
the ground, flapping their scaly fore-limbs, and balancing themselves in kangaroo-like fashion
with an extended tail. A second chapter was probably an arboreal apprenticeship, during which
they made a fine art of parachuting--a persistence of which is to be seen in the pigeon "gliding"
from the dovecot to the ground. It is in birds that the mastery of the air reaches its climax,
and the mysterious "sailing" of the albatross and the vulture is surely the most remarkable
locomotor triumph that has ever been achieved. Without any apparent stroke of the wings, the
bird sails for half an hour at a time with the wind and against the wind, around the ship and
in majestic spirals in the sky, probably taking advantage of currents of air of different velocities,
and continually changing energy of position into energy of motion as it sinks, and energy of
motion into energy of position as it rises. It is interesting to know that some dragon-flies
are also able to "sail."

The web-wing of bats involves much more than the fore-arm. The double fold of skin begins on
the side of the neck, passes along the front of the arm, skips the thumb, and is continued
over the elongated palm-bones and fingers to the sides of the body again, and to the hind-legs,
and to the tail if there is a tail. It is interesting to find that the bones of the bat's skeleton
tend to be lightly built as in birds, that the breast-bone has likewise a keel for the better
insertion of the pectoral muscles, and that there is a solidifying of the vertebræ of the back,
affording as in birds a firm basis for the wing action. Such similar adaptations to similar
needs, occurring in animals not nearly related to one another, are called "convergences," and
form a very interesting study. In addition to adaptations which the bat shares with the flying
bird, it has many of its own. There are so many nerve-endings on the wing, and often also on
special skin-leaves about the ears and nose, that the bat flying in the dusk does not knock
against branches or other obstacles. Some say that it is helped by the echoes of its high-pitched
voice, but there is no doubt as to its exquisite tactility. That it usually produces only a
single young one at a time is a clear adaptation to flight, and similarly the sharp, mountain-top-like
cusps on the back teeth are adapted in insectivorous bats for crunching insects.

Whether we think of the triumphant flight of birds, reaching a climax in migration, or of the
marvel that a creature of the earth--as a mammal essentially is--should evolve such a mastery
of the air as we see in bats, or even of the repeated but splendid failures which parachuting
animals illustrate, we gain an impression of the insurgence of living creatures in their characteristic
endeavour after fuller well-being.

We have said enough to show how well adapted many animals are to meet the particular difficulties
of the haunt which they tenant. But difficulties and limitations are ever arising afresh, and
so one fitness follows on another. It is natural, therefore, to pass to the frequent occurrence
of protective resemblance, camouflage, and mimicry--the subject of the next article.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

 ELMHIRST, R., Animals of the Shore.
 FLATTELY AND WALTON, The Biology of the Shore (1921).
 FURNEAUX, Life of Ponds and Streams.
 HICKSON, S. J., Story of Life in the Seas and Fauna of the Deep Sea.
 JOHNSTONE, J., Life in the Sea (Cambridge Manual of Science).
 MIALL, L. C., Aquatic Insects.
 MURRAY, SIR JOHN, The Ocean (Home University Library).
 MURRAY, SIR JOHN AND HJORT, DR. J., The Depths of the Ocean.
 NEWBIGIN, M. I., Life by the Sea Shore.
 PYCRAFT, W. P., History of Birds.
 SCHARFF, R. F., History of the European Fauna (Contemp. Sci. Series).
 THOMSON, J. ARTHUR, The Wonder of Life (1914) and
   The Haunts of Life (1921).

IV

THE STRUGGLE FOR EXISTENCE

ANIMAL AND BIRD MIMICRY AND DISGUISE

§ 1

For every animal one discovers when observing carefully, there must be ten unseen. This is
partly because many animals burrow in the ground or get in underneath things and into dark
corners, being what is called cryptozoic or elusive. But it is partly because many animals
put on disguise or have in some way acquired a garment of invisibility. This is very common
among animals, and it occurs in many forms and degrees. The reason why it is so common is because
the struggle for existence is often very keen, and the reasons why the struggle for existence
is keen are four. First, there is the tendency to over-population in many animals, especially
those of low degree. Second, there is the fact that the scheme of nature involves nutritive
chains or successive incarnations, one animal depending upon another for food, and all in the
long run on plants; thirdly, every vigorous animal is a bit of a hustler, given to insurgence
and sticking out his elbows. There is a fourth great reason for the struggle for existence,
namely, the frequent changefulness of the physical environment, which forces animals to answer
back or die; but the first three reasons have most to do with the very common assumption of
some sort of disguise. Even when an animal is in no sense a weakling, it may be very advantageous
for it to be inconspicuous when it is resting or when it is taking care of its young. Our problem
is the evolution of elusiveness, so far at least as that depends on likeness to surroundings,
on protective resemblance to other objects, and in its highest reaches on true mimicry.

Colour Permanently Like That of Surroundings

Many animals living on sandy places have a light-brown colour, as is seen in some lizards and
snakes. The green lizard is like the grass and the green tree-snake is inconspicuous among
the branches. The spotted leopard is suited to the interrupted light of the forest, and it
is sometimes hard to tell where the jungle ends and the striped tiger begins. There is no better
case than the hare or the partridge sitting a few yards off on the ploughed field. Even a donkey
grazing in the dusk is much more readily heard than seen.

The experiment has been made of tethering the green variety of Praying Mantis on green herbage,
fastening them with silk threads. They escape the notice of birds. The same is true when the
brown variety is tethered on withered herbage. But if the green ones are put on brown plants,
or the brown ones on green plants, the birds pick them off. Similarly, out of 300 chickens
in a field, 240 white or black and therefore conspicuous, 60 spotted and inconspicuous, 24
were soon picked off by crows, but only one of these was spotted. This was not the proportion
that there should have been if the mortality had been fortuitous. There is no doubt that it
often pays an animal to be like its habitual surroundings, like a little piece of scenery if
the animal is not moving. It is safe to say that in process of time wide departures from the
safest coloration will be wiped out in the course of Nature's ceaseless sifting.

But we must not be credulous, and there are three cautions to be borne in mind. (1) An animal
may be very like its surroundings without there being any protection implied. The arrow-worms
in the sea are as clear as glass, and so are many open-sea animals. But this is because their
tissues are so watery, with a specific gravity near that of the salt water. And the invisibility
does not save them, always or often, from being swallowed by larger animals that gather the
harvest of the sea. (2) Among the cleverer animals it looks as if the creature sometimes sought
out a spot where it was most inconspicuous. A spider may place itself in the middle of a little
patch of lichen, where its self-effacement is complete. Perhaps it is more comfortable as well
as safer to rest in surroundings the general colour of which is like that of the animal's body.
(3) The fishes that live among the coral-reefs are startling in their brilliant coloration,
and there are many different patterns. To explain this it has been suggested that these fishes
are so safe among the mazy passages and endless nooks of the reefs, that they can well afford
to wear any colour that suits their constitution. In some cases this may be true, but naturalists
who have put on a diving suit and walked about among the coral have told us that each kind
of fish is particularly suited to some particular place, and that some are suited for midday
work and others for evening work. Sometimes there is a sort of Box and Cox arrangement by which
two different fishes utilise the same corner at different times.

§ 2

Gradual Change of Colour

The common shore-crab shows many different colours and mottlings, especially when it is young.
It may be green or grey, red or brown, and so forth, and it is often in admirable adjustment
to the colour of the rock-pool where it is living. Experiments, which require extension, have
shown that when the crab has moulted, which it has to do very often when it is young, the colour
of the new shell tends to harmonise with the general colour of the rocks and seaweed. How this
is brought about, we do not know. The colour does not seem to change till the next moult, and
not then unless there is some reason for it. A full-grown shore-crab is well able to look after
itself, and it is of interest to notice, therefore, that the variety of coloration is mainly
among the small individuals, who have, of course, a much less secure position. It is possible,
moreover, that the resemblance to the surroundings admits of more successful hunting, enabling
the small crab to take its victim unawares.

Professor Poulton's experiments with the caterpillars of the small tortoise-shell butterfly
showed that in black surroundings the pupæ tend to be darker, in white surroundings lighter,
in gilded boxes golden; and the same is true in other cases. It appears that the surrounding
colour affects the caterpillars through the skin during a sensitive period--the twenty hours
immediately preceding the last twelve hours of the larval state. The result will tend to make
the quiescent pupæ less conspicuous during the critical time of metamorphosis. The physiology
of this sympathetic colouring remains obscure.

Seasonal Change of Colouring

The ptarmigan moults three times in the year. Its summer plumage is rather grouselike above,
with a good deal of rufous brown; the back becomes much more grey in autumn; almost all the
feathers of the winter plumage are white. That is to say, they develop without any pigment
and with numerous gas-bubbles in their cells. Now there can be no doubt that this white winter
plumage makes the ptarmigan very inconspicuous amidst the snow. Sometimes one comes within
a few feet of the crouching bird without seeing it, and this garment of invisibility may save
it from the hungry eyes of golden eagles.

Similarly the brown stoat becomes the white ermine, mainly by the growth, of a new suit of
white fur, and the same is true of the mountain hare. The ermine is all white except the black
tip of its tail; the mountain hare in its winter dress is all white save the black tips of
its ears. In some cases, especially in the mountain hare, it seems that individual hairs may
turn white, by a loss of pigment, as may occur in man. According to Metchnikoff, the wandering
amoeboid cells of the body, called phagocytes, may creep up into the hairs and come back again
with microscopic burdens of pigment. The place of the pigment is taken by gas-bubbles, and
that is what causes the whiteness. In no animals is there any white pigment; the white colour
is like that of snow or foam, it is due to the complete reflection of the light from innumerable
minute surfaces of crystals or bubbles.

The mountain hare may escape the fox the more readily because its whiteness makes it so inconspicuous
against a background of snow; and yet, at other times, we have seen the creature standing out
like a target on the dark moorland. So it cuts both ways. The ermine has almost no enemies
except the gamekeeper, but its winter whiteness may help it to sneak upon its victims, such
as grouse or rabbit, when there is snow upon the ground. In both cases, however, the probability
is that the constitutional rhythm which leads to white hair in winter has been fostered and
fixed for a reason quite apart from protection. The fact is that for a warm-blooded creature,
whether bird or mammal, the physiologically best dress is a white one, for there is less radiation
of the precious animal heat from white plumage or white pelage than from any other colour.
The quality of warm-bloodedness is a prerogative of birds and mammals, and it means that the
body keeps an almost constant temperature, day and night, year in and year out. This is effected
by automatic internal adjustments which regulate the supply of heat, chiefly from the muscles,
to the loss of heat, chiefly through the skin and from the lungs. The chief importance of this
internal heat is that it facilitates the smooth continuance of the chemical processes on which
life depends. If the temperature falls, as in hibernating mammals (whose warm-bloodedness is
imperfect), the rate of the vital process is slowed down--sometimes dangerously. Thus we see
how the white coat helps the life of the creature.

§ 3

Rapid Colour-change

Bony flat-fishes, like plaice and sole, have a remarkable power of adjusting their hue and
pattern to the surrounding gravel and sand, so that it is difficult to find them even when
we know that they are there. It must be admitted that they are also very quick to get a sprinkling
of sand over their upturned side, so that only the eyes are left showing. But there is no doubt
as to the exactness with which they often adjust themselves to be like a little piece of the
substratum on which they lie; they will do this within limits in experimental conditions when
they are placed on a quite artificial floor. As these fishes are very palatable and are much
sought after by such enemies as cormorants and otters, it is highly probably that their power
of self-effacement often saves their life. And it may be effected within a few minutes, in
some cases within a minute.

In these self-effacing flat-fishes we know with some precision what happens. The adjustment
of colour and pattern is due to changes in the size, shape, and position of mobile pigment-cells
(chromatophores) and the skin. But what makes the pigment-cells change? The fact that a blind
flat-fish does not change its colour gives us the first part of the answer. The colour and
the pattern of the surroundings must affect the eye. The message travels by the optic nerve
to the brain; from the brain, instead of passing down the spinal cord, the message travels
down the chain of sympathetic ganglia. From these it passes along the nerves which comes out
of the spinal cord and control the skin. Thus the message reaches the colour-cells in the skin,
and before you have carefully read these lines the flat-fish has slipped on its Gyges ring
and become invisible.

The same power of rapid colour-change is seen in cuttlefishes, where it is often an expression
of nervous excitement, though it sometimes helps to conceal. It occurs with much subtlety in
the Æsop prawn, Hippolyte, which may be brown on a brown seaweed, green on sea-lettuce or sea-grass,
red on red seaweed, and so on through an extensive repertory.

    According to the nature of the background, [Professor Gamble writes]
    so is the mixture of the pigments compounded so as to form a close
    reproduction both of its colour and its pattern. A sweep of the
    shrimp net detaches a battalion of these sleeping prawns, and if
    we turn the motley into a dish and give a choice of seaweed, each
    variety after its kind will select the one with which it agrees in
    colour, and vanish. Both when young and when full-grown, the Æsop
    prawn takes on the colour of its immediate surroundings. At
    nightfall Hippolyte, of whatever colour, changes to a transparent
    azure blue: its stolidity gives place to a nervous restlessness; at
    the least tremor it leaps violently, and often swims actively from
    one food-plant to another. This blue fit lasts till daybreak, and is
    then succeeded by the prawn's diurnal tint.

Thus, Professor Gamble continues, the colour of an animal may express a nervous rhythm.

The Case of Chameleons

The highest level at which rapid colour-change occurs is among lizards, and the finest exhibition
of it is among the chameleons. These quaint creatures are characteristic of Africa; but they
occur also in Andalusia, Arabia, Ceylon, and Southern India. They are adapted for life on trees,
where they hunt insects with great deliberateness and success. The protrusible tongue, ending
in a sticky club, can be shot out for about seven inches in the common chameleon. Their hands
and feet are split so that they grip the branches firmly, and the prehensile tail rivals a
monkey's. When they wish they can make themselves very slim, contracting the body from side
to side, so that they are not very readily seen. In other circumstances, however, they do not
practise self-effacement, but the very reverse. They inflate their bodies, having not only
large lungs, but air-sacs in connection with them. The throat bulges; the body sways from side
to side; and the creature expresses its sentiments in a hiss. The power of colour-change is
very remarkable, and depends partly on the contraction and expansion of the colour-cells (chromatophores)
in the under-skin (or dermis) and partly on close-packed refractive granules and crystals of
a waste-product called guanin. The repertory of possible colours in the common chameleon is
greater than in any other animal except the Æsop prawn. There is a legend of a chameleon which
was brown in a brown box, green in a green box, and blue in a blue box, and died when put into
one lined with tartan; and there is no doubt that one and the same animal has a wide range
of colours. The so-called "chameleon" (Anolis) of North America is so sensitive that a passing
cloud makes it change its emerald hue.

There is no doubt that a chameleon may make itself more inconspicuous by changing its colour,
being affected by the play of light on its eyes. A bright-green hue is often seen on those
that are sitting among strongly illumined green leaves. But the colour also changes with the
time of day and with the animal's moods. A sudden irritation may bring about a rapid change;
in other cases the transformation comes about very gradually. When the colour-change expresses
the chameleon's feelings it might be compared to blushing, but that is due to an expansion
of the arteries of the face, allowing more blood to get into the capillaries of the under-skin.
The case of the chameleon is peculiarly interesting because the animal has two kinds of tactics--self-effacement
on the one hand and bluffing on the other. There can be little doubt that the power of colour-change
sometimes justifies itself by driving off intruders. Dr. Cyril Crossland observed that a chameleon
attacked by a fox-terrier "turned round and opened its great pink mouth in the face of the
advancing dog, at the same time rapidly changing colour, becoming almost black. This ruse succeeded
every time, the dog turning off at once." In natural leafy surroundings the startling effect
would be much greater--a sudden throwing off of the mantle of invisibility and the exposure
of a conspicuous black body with a large red mouth.

§ 4

Likeness to Other Things

Dr. H. O. Forbes tells of a flat spider which presents a striking resemblance to a bird's dropping
on a leaf. Years after he first found it he was watching in a forest in the Far East when his
eye fell on a leaf before him which had been blotched by a bird. He wondered idly why he had
not seen for so long another specimen of the bird-dropping spider (Ornithoscatoides decipiens),
and drew the leaf towards him. Instantaneously he got a characteristic sharp nip; it was the
spider after all! Here the colour-resemblance was enhanced by a form-resemblance.

But why should it profit a spider to be like a bird-dropping? Perhaps because it thereby escapes
attention; but there is another possibility. It seems that some butterflies, allied to our
Blues, are often attracted to excrementitious material, and the spider Dr. Forbes observed
had actually caught its victim. This is borne out by a recent observation by Dr. D. G. H. Carpenter,
who found a Uganda bug closely resembling a bird-dropping on sand. The bug actually settled
down on a bird-dropping on sand, and caught a blue butterfly which came to feed there!

Some of the walking-stick insects, belonging to the order of crickets and grasshoppers (Orthoptera),
have their body elongated and narrow, like a thin dry branch, and they have a way of sticking
out their limbs at abrupt and diverse angles, which makes the resemblance to twigs very close
indeed. Some of these quaint insects rest through the day and have the remarkable habit of
putting themselves into a sort of kataleptic state. Many creatures turn stiff when they get
a shock, or pass suddenly into new surroundings, like some of the sand-hoppers when we lay
them on the palm of our hand; but these twig-insects put themselves into this strange state.
The body is rocked from side to side for a short time, and then it stiffens. An advantage may
be that even if they were surprised by a bird or a lizard, they will not be able to betray
themselves by even a tremor. Disguise is perfected by a remarkable habit, a habit which leads
us to think of a whole series of different ways of lying low and saying nothing which are often
of life-preserving value. The top end of the series is seen when a fox plays 'possum.

The leaf-butterfly Kallima, conspicuously coloured on its upper surface, is like a withered
leaf when it settles down and shows the under side of its wings. Here, again, there is precise
form-resemblance, for the nervures on the wings are like the mid-rib and side veins on a leaf,
and the touch of perfection is given in the presence of whitish spots which look exactly like
the discolorations produced by lichens on leaves. An old entomologist, Mr. Jenner Weir, confessed
that he repeatedly pruned off a caterpillar on a bush in mistake for a superfluous twig, for
many brownish caterpillars fasten themselves by their posterior claspers and by an invisible
thread of silk from their mouth, and project from the branch at a twig-like angle. An insect
may be the very image of a sharp prickle or a piece of soft moss; a spider may look precisely
like a tiny knob on a branch or a fragment of lichen; one of the sea-horses (Phyllopteryx)
has frond-like tassels on various parts of its body, so that it looks extraordinarily like
the seaweeds among which it lives. In a few cases, e.g. among spiders, it has been shown that
animals with a special protective resemblance to something else seek out a position where this
resemblance tells, and there is urgent need for observations bearing on this selection of environment.

§ 5

Mimicry in the True Sense

It sometimes happens that in one and the same place there are two groups of animals not very
nearly related which are "doubles" of one another. Investigation shows that the members of
the one group, always in the majority, are in some way specially protected, e.g. by being unpalatable.
They are the "mimicked." The members of the other group, always in the minority, have not got
the special protection possessed by the others. They are the "mimickers," though the resemblance
is not, of course, associated with any conscious imitation. The theory is that the mimickers
live on the reputation of the mimicked. If the mimicked are left alone by birds because they
have a reputation for unpalatability, or because they are able to sting, the mimickers survive--although
they are palatable and stingless. They succeed, not through any virtue of their own, but because
of their resemblance to the mimicked, for whom they are mistaken. There are many cases of mimetic
resemblance so striking and so subtle that it seems impossible to doubt that the thing works;
there are other cases which are rather far-fetched, and may be somewhat of the nature of coincidences.
Thus although Mr. Bates tells us that he repeatedly shot humming-bird moths in mistake for
humming-birds, we cannot think that this is a good illustration of mimicry. What is needed
for many cases is what is forthcoming for some, namely, experimental evidence, e.g. that the
unpalatable mimicked butterflies are left in relative peace while similar palatable butterflies
are persecuted. It is also necessary to show that the mimickers do actually consort with the
mimicked. Some beetles and moths are curiously wasplike, which may be a great advantage; the
common drone-fly is superficially like a small bee; some harmless snakes are very like poisonous
species; and Mr. Wallace maintained that the powerful "friar-birds" of the Far East are mimicked
by the weak and timid orioles. When the model is unpalatable or repulsive or dangerous, and
the mimic the reverse, the mimicry is called "Batesian" (after Mr. Bates), but there is another
kind of mimicry called Müllerian (after Fritz Müller) where the mimic is also unpalatable.
The theory in this case is that the mimicry serves as mutual assurance, the members of the
ring getting on better by consistently presenting the same appearance, which has come to mean
to possible enemies a signal, Noli me tangere ("Leave me alone"). There is nothing out of the
question in this theory, but it requires to be taken in a critical spirit. It leads us to think
of "warning colours," which are the very opposite of the disguises which we are now studying.
Some creatures like skunks, magpies, coral-snakes, cobras, brightly coloured tree-frogs are
obtrusive rather than elusive, and the theory of Alfred Russel Wallace was that the flaunting
conspicuousness serves as a useful advertisement, impressing itself on the memories of inexperienced
enemies, who soon learn to leave creatures with "warning colours" alone. In any case it is
plain that an animal which is as safe as a wasp or a coral-snake can afford to wear any suit
of clothes it likes.

Masking

The episode in Scottish history called "The Walking Wood of Birnam," when the advancing troop
masked their approach by cutting down branches of the trees, has had its counterpart in many
countries. But it is also enacted on the seashore. There are many kinds of crabs that put on
disguise with what looks like deliberateness. The sand-crab takes a piece of seaweed, nibbles
at the end of it, and then rubs it on the back of the carapace or on the legs so that it fixes
to the bristles. As the seaweed continues to live, the crab soon has a little garden on its
back which masks the crab's real nature. It is most effective camouflaging, but if the crab
continues to grow it has to moult, and that means losing the disguise. It is then necessary
to make a new one. The crab must have on the shore something corresponding to a reputation;
that is to say, other animals are clearly or dimly aware that the crab is a voracious and combative
creature. How useful to the crab, then, to have its appearance cloaked by a growth of innocent
seaweed, or sponge, or zoophyte. It will enable the creature to sneak upon its victims or to
escape the attention of its own enemies.

If a narrow-beaked crab is cleaned artificially it will proceed to clothe itself again, the
habit has become instinctive; and it must be admitted that while a particular crab prefers
a particular kind of seaweed for its dress, it will cover itself with unsuitable and even conspicuous
material, such as pieces of coloured cloth, if nothing better is available. The disguise differs
greatly, for one crab is masked by a brightly coloured and unpalatable sponge densely packed
with flinty needles; another cuts off the tunic of a sea-squirt and throws it over its shoulders;
another trundles about a bivalve shell. The facts recall the familiar case of the hermit-crab,
which protects its soft tail by tucking it into the empty shell of a periwinkle or a whelk
or some other sea-snail, and that case leads on to the elaboration known as commensalism, where
the hermit-crab fixes sea-anemones on the back of its borrowed house. The advantage here is
beyond that of masking, for the sea-anemone can sting, which is a useful quality in a partner.
That this second advantage may become the main one is evident in several cases where the sea-anemone
is borne, just like a weapon, on each of the crustacean's great claws. Moreover, as the term
commensalism (eating at the same table) suggests, the partnership is mutually beneficial. For
the sea-anemone is carried about by the hermit-crab, and it doubtless gets its share of crumbs
from its partner's frequent meals. There is a very interesting sidelight on the mutual benefit
in the case of a dislodged sea-anemone which sulked for a while and then waited in a state
of preparedness until a hermit-crab passed by and touched it. Whereupon the sea-anemone gripped
and slowly worked itself up on to the back of the shell.

§ 6

Other Kinds of Elusiveness

There are various kinds of disguise which are not readily classified. A troop of cuttlefish
swimming in the sea is a beautiful sight. They keep time with one another in their movements
and they show the same change of colour almost at the same moment. They are suddenly attacked,
however, by a small shark, and then comes a simultaneous discharge of sepia from their ink-bags.
There are clouds of ink in the clear water, for, as Professor Hickson puts it, the cuttlefishes
have thrown dust in the eyes of their enemies. One can see a newborn cuttlefish do this a minute
after it escapes from the egg.

Very beautiful is the way in which many birds, like our common chaffinch, disguise the outside
of their nest with moss and lichen and other trifles felted together, so that the cradle is
as inconspicuous as possible. There seems to be a touch of art in fastening pieces of spider's
web on the outside of a nest!

How curious is the case of the tree-sloth of South American forests, that walks slowly, back
downwards, along the undersides of the branches, hanging on by its long, curved fingers and
toes. It is a nocturnal animal, and therefore not in special danger, but when resting during
the day it is almost invisible because its shaggy hair is so like certain lichens and other
growths on the branches. But the protective resemblance is enhanced by the presence of a green
alga, which actually lives on the surface of the sloth's hairs--an alga like the one that makes
tree-stems and gate-posts green in damp weather.

There is no commoner sight in the early summer than the cuckoo-spit on the grasses and herbage
by the wayside. It is conspicuous and yet it is said to be left severely alone by almost all
creatures. In some way it must be a disguise. It is a sort of soap made by the activity of
small frog-hoppers while they are still in the wingless larval stage, before they begin to
hop. The insect pierces with its sharp mouth-parts the skin of the plant and sucks in sweet
sap which by and by overflows over its body. It works its body up and down many times, whipping
in air, which mixes with the sugary sap, reminding one of how "whipped egg" is made. But along
with the sugary sap and the air, there is a little ferment from the food-canal and a little
wax from glands on the skin, and the four things mixed together make a kind of soap which lasts
through the heat of the day.

There are many other modes of disguise besides those which we have been able to illustrate.
Indeed, the biggest fact is that there are so many, for it brings us back to the idea that
life is not an easy business. It is true, as Walt Whitman says, that animals do not sweat and
whine about their condition; perhaps it is true, as he says, that not one is unhappy over the
whole earth. But there is another truth, that this world is not a place for the unlit lamp
and the ungirt loin, and that when a creature has not armour or weapons or cleverness it must
find some path of safety or go back. One of these paths of safety is disguise, and we have
illustrated its evolution.

V

THE ASCENT OF MAN

THE ASCENT OF MAN

§ 1

No one thinks less of Sir Isaac Newton because he was born as a very puny infant, and no one
should think less of the human race because it sprang from a stock of arboreal mammals. There
is no doubt as to man's apartness from the rest of creation when he is seen at his best--"a
little lower than the angels, crowned with glory and honour." Nevertheless, all the facts point
to his affiliation to the stock to which monkeys and apes also belong. Not, indeed, that man
is descended from any living ape or monkey; it is rather that he and they have sprung from
a common ancestry--are branches of the same stem. This conclusion is so momentous that the
reasons for accepting it must be carefully considered. They were expounded with masterly skill
in Darwin's Descent of Man in 1871--a book which was but an expansion of a chapter in The Origin
of Species (1859).

Anatomical Proof of Man's Relationship with a Simian Stock

The anatomical structure of man is closely similar to that of the anthropoid apes--the gorilla,
the orang, the chimpanzee, and the gibbon. Bone for bone, muscle for muscle, blood-vessel for
blood-vessel, nerve for nerve, man and ape agree. As the conservative anatomist, Sir Richard
Owen, said, there is between them "an all-pervading similitude of structure." Differences,
of course, there are, but they are not momentous except man's big brain, which may be three
times as heavy as that of a gorilla. The average human brain weighs about 48 ounces; the gorilla
brain does not exceed 20 ounces at its best. The capacity of the human skull is never less
than 55 cubic inches; in the orang and the chimpanzee the figures are 26 and 27-1/2 respectively.
We are not suggesting that the most distinctive features of man are such as can be measured
and weighed, but it is important to notice that the main seat of his mental powers is physically
far ahead of that of the highest of the anthropoid apes.

Man alone is thoroughly erect after his infancy is past; his head weighted with the heavy brain
does not droop forward as the ape's does; with his erect attitude there is perhaps to be associated
his more highly developed vocal organs. Compared with an anthropoid ape, man has a bigger and
more upright forehead, a less protrusive face region, smaller cheek-bones and eyebrow ridges,
and more uniform teeth. He is almost unique in having a chin. Man plants the sole of his foot
flat on the ground, his big toe is usually in a line with the other toes, and he has a better
heel than any monkey has. The change in the shape of the head is to be thought of in connection
with the enlargement of the brain, and also in connection with the natural reduction of the
muzzle region when the hand was freed from being an organ of support and became suited for
grasping the food and conveying it to the mouth.

Everyone is familiar in man's clothing with traces of the past persisting in the present, though
their use has long since disappeared. There are buttons on the back of the waist of the morning
coat to which the tails of the coat used to be fastened up, and there are buttons, occasionally
with buttonholes, at the wrist which were once useful in turning up the sleeve. The same is
true of man's body, which is a veritable museum of relics. Some anatomists have made out a
list of over a hundred of these vestigial structures, and though this number is perhaps too
high, there is no doubt that the list is long. In the inner upper corner of the eye there is
a minute tag--but larger in some races than in others--which is the last dwindling relic of
the third eyelid, used in cleaning the front of the eye, which most mammals possess in a large
and well-developed form. It can be easily seen, for instance, in ox and rabbit. In man and
in monkeys it has become a useless vestige, and the dwindling must be associated with the fact
that the upper eyelid is much more mobile in man and monkeys than in the other mammals. The
vestigial third eyelid in man is enough of itself to prove his relationship with the mammals,
but it is only one example out of many. Some of these are discussed in the article dealing
with the human body, but we may mention the vestigial muscles going to the ear-trumpet, man's
dwindling counterpart of the skin-twitching muscle which we see a horse use when he jerks a
fly off his flanks, and the short tail which in the seven-weeks-old human embryo is actually
longer than the leg. Without committing ourselves to a belief in the entire uselessness of
the vermiform appendix, which grows out as a blind alley at the junction of the small intestine
with the large, we are safe in saying that it is a dwindling structure--the remains of a blind
gut which must have been capacious and useful in ancestral forms. In some mammals, like the
rabbit, the blind gut is the bulkiest structure in the body, and bears the vermiform appendix
at its far end. In man the appendix alone is left, and it tells its tale. It is interesting
to notice that it is usually longer in the orang than in man, and that it is very variable,
as dwindling structures tend to be. One of the unpleasant expressions of this variability is
the liability to go wrong: hence appendicitis. Now these vestigial structures are, as Darwin
said, like the unsounded, i.e. functionless, letters in words, such as the o in "leopard,"
the b in "doubt," the g in "reign." They are of no use, but they tell us something of the history
of the words. So do man's vestigial structures reveal his pedigree. They must have an historical
or evolutionary significance. No other interpretation is possible.

Some men, oftener than women, show on the inturned margin of the ear-trumpet or pinna, a little
conical projection of great interest. It is a vestige of the tip of the pointed ear of lower
mammals, and it is well named Darwin's point. It was he who described it as a "surviving symbol
of the stirring times and dangerous days of man's animal youth."

§ 2

Physiological Proof of Man's Relationship with a Simian Stock

The everyday functions of the human body are practically the same as those of the anthropoid
ape, and similar disorders are common to both. Monkeys may be infected with certain microbes
to which man is peculiarly liable, such as the bacillus of tuberculosis. Darwin showed that
various human gestures and facial expressions have their counterparts in monkeys. The sneering
curl of the upper lip, which tends to expose the canine tooth, is a case in point, though it
may be seen in many other mammals besides monkeys--in dogs, for instance, which are at some
considerable distance from the simian branch to which man's ancestors belonged.

When human blood is transfused into a dog or even a monkey, it behaves in a hostile way to
the other blood, bringing about a destruction of the red blood corpuscles. But when it is transfused
into a chimpanzee there is an harmonious mingling of the two. This is a very literal demonstration
of man's blood-relationship with the higher apes. But there is a finer form of the same experiment.
When the blood-fluid (or serum) of a rabbit, which has had human blood injected into it, is
mingled with human blood, it forms a cloudy precipitate. It forms almost as marked a precipitate
when it is mingled with the blood of an anthropoid ape. But when it is mingled with the blood
of an American monkey there is only a slight clouding after a considerable time and no actual
precipitate. When it is added to the blood of one of the distantly related "half-monkeys" or
lemurs there is no reaction or only a very weak one. With the blood of mammals off the simian
line altogether there is no reaction at all. We can imagine how this modern line of experiment
would have delighted Darwin.

Embryological Proof of Man's Relationship with a Simian Stock

In his individual development, man does in some measure climb up his own genealogical tree.
Stages in the development of the body during its nine months of ante-natal life are closely
similar to stages in the development of the anthropoid embryo. Babies born in times of famine
or siege are sometimes, as it were, imperfectly finished, and sometimes have what may be described
as monkeyish features and ways. A visit to an institution for the care of children who show
arrested, defective, or disturbed development leaves one sadly impressed with the risk of slipping
down the rungs of the steep ladder of evolution; and even in adults the occurrence of serious
nervous disturbance, such as "shell-shock," is sometimes marked by relapses to animal ways.
It is a familiar fact that a normal baby reveals the past in its surprising power of grip,
and the careful experiments of Dr. Louis Robinson showed that an infant three weeks old could
support its own weight for over two minutes, holding on to a horizontal bar. This persistent
grasp probably points back to the time when the baby had to cling to its arboreal mother. The
human tail is represented in the adult by a fusion of four or five vertebræ forming the "coccyx"
at the end of the backbone, and is normally concealed beneath the flesh, but in the embryo
the tail projects freely and is movable. Up to the sixth month of the ante-natal sleep the
body is covered, all but the palms and soles, with longish hair (the lanugo), which usually
disappears before birth. This is a stage in the normal development, which is reasonably interpreted
as a recapitulation of a stage in the racial evolution. We draw this inference when we find
that the unborn offspring of an almost hairless whale has an abundant representation of hairs;
we must draw a similar inference in the case of man.

It must be noticed that there are two serious errors in the careless statement often made that
man in his development is at one time like a little fish, at a later stage like a little reptile,
at a later stage like a little primitive mammal, and eventually like a little monkey. The first
error here is that the comparison should be made with embryo-fish, embryo-reptile, embryo-mammal,
and so on. It is in the making of the embryos that the great resemblance lies. When the human
embryo shows the laying down of the essential vertebrate characters, such as brain and spinal
cord, then it is closely comparable to the embryo of a lower vertebrate at a similar stage.
When, at a subsequent stage, its heart, for instance, is about to become a four-chambered mammalian
heart, it is closely comparable to the heart of, let us say, a turtle, which never becomes
more than three-chambered. The point is that in the making of the organs of the body, say brain
and kidneys, the embryo of man pursues a path closely corresponding to the path followed by
the embryos of other backboned animals lower in the scale, but at successive stages it parts
company with these, with the lowest first and so on in succession. A human embryo is never
like a little reptile, but the developing organs pass through stages which very closely resemble
the corresponding stages in lower types which are in a general way ancestral.

The second error is that every kind of animal, man included, has from the first a certain individuality,
with peculiar characteristics which are all its own. This is expressed by the somewhat difficult
word specificity, which just means that every species is itself and no other. So in the development
of the human embryo, while there are close resemblances to the embryos of apes, monkeys, other
mammals, and even, at earlier stages still, to the embryos of reptile and fish, it has to be
admitted that we are dealing from first to last with a human embryo with peculiarities of its own.

Every human being begins his or her life as a single cell--a fertilised egg-cell, a treasure-house
of all the ages. For in this living microcosm, only a small fraction (1/125) of an inch in
diameter, there is condensed--who can imagine how?--all the natural inheritance of man, all
the legacy of his parentage, of his ancestry, of his long pre-human pedigree. Darwin called
the pinhead brain of the ant the most marvellous atom of matter in the world, but the human
ovum is more marvellous still. It has more possibilities in it than any other thing, yet without
fertilisation it will die. The fertilised ovum divides and redivides; there results a ball
of cells and a sack of cells; gradually division of labour becomes the rule; there is a laying
down of nervous system and food-canal, muscular system and skeleton, and so proceeds what is
learnedly called differentiation. Out of the apparently simple there emerges the obviously
complex. As Aristotle observed more than two thousand years ago, in the developing egg of the
hen there soon appears the beating heart! There is nothing like this in the non-living world.
But to return to the developing human embryo, there is formed from and above the embryonic
food-canal a skeletal rod, which is called the notochord. It thrills the imagination to learn
that this is the only supporting axis that the lower orders of the backboned race possess.
The curious thing is that it does not become the backbone, which is certainly one of the essential
features of the vertebrate race. The notochord is the supporting axis of the pioneer backboned
animals, namely the Lancelets and the Round-mouths (Cyclostomes), such as the Lamprey. They
have no backbone in the strict sense, but they have this notochord. It can easily be dissected
out in the lamprey--a long gristly rod. It is surrounded by a sheath which becomes the backbone
of most fishes and of all higher animals. The interesting point is that although the notochord
is only a vestige in the adults of these types, it is never absent from the embryo. It occurs
even in man, a short-lived relic of the primeval supporting axis of the body. It comes and
then it goes, leaving only minute traces in the adult. We cannot say that it is of any use,
unless it serves as a stimulus to the development of its substitute, the backbone. It is only
a piece of preliminary scaffolding, but there is no more eloquent instance of the living hand
of the past.

One other instance must suffice of what Professor Lull calls the wonderful changes wrought
in the dark of the ante-natal period, which recapitulate in rapid abbreviation the great evolutionary
steps which were taken by man's ancestors "during the long night of the geological past." On
the sides of the neck of the human embryo there are four pairs of slits, the "visceral clefts,"
openings from the beginning of the food-canals to the surface. There is no doubt as to their
significance. They correspond to the gill-slits of fishes and tadpoles. Yet in reptiles, birds,
and mammals they have no connection with breathing, which is their function in fishes and amphibians.
Indeed, they are not of any use at all, except that the first becomes the Eustachian tube bringing
the ear-passage into connection with the back of the mouth, and that the second and third have
to do with the development of a curious organ called the thymus gland. Persistent, nevertheless,
these gill-slits are, recalling even in man an aquatic ancestry of many millions of years ago.

When all these lines of evidence are considered, they are seen to converge in the conclusion
that man is derived from a simian stock of mammals. He is solidary with the rest of creation.

We should be clear that this view does not say more than that man sprang from a stock common
to him and to the higher apes. Those who are repelled by the idea of man's derivation from
a simian type should remember that the theory implies rather more than this, namely, that man
is the outcome of a genealogy which has implied many millions of years of experimenting and
sifting--the groaning and travailing of a whole creation. In any case, we have to try to square
our views with the facts, not the facts with our views, and while one of the facts is that
man stands unique and apart, the other is that man is a scion of a progressive simian stock.
Naturalists have exposed the pit whence man has been digged and the rock whence he has been
hewn, but it is surely a heartening encouragement to know that it is an ascent, not a descent,
that we have behind us. There is wisdom in Pascal's maxim:

    It is dangerous to show man too plainly how like he is to the
    animals, without, at the same time, reminding him of his greatness.
    It is equally unwise to impress him with his greatness and not with
    his lowliness. It is worse to leave him in ignorance of both. But it
    is very profitable to recognise the two facts.

§ 3

Man's Pedigree

The facts of anatomy, physiology, and embryology, of which we have given illustrations, all
point to man's affiliation with the order of monkeys and apes. To this order is given the name
Primates, and our first and second question must be when and whence the Primates began. The
rock record answers the first question: the Primates emerged about the dawn of the Eocene era,
when grass was beginning to cover the earth with a garment. Their ancestral home was in the
north in both hemispheres, and then they migrated to Africa, India, Malay, and South America.
In North America the Primates soon became extinct, and the same thing happened later on in
Europe. In this case, however, there was a repeopling from the South (in the Lower Miocene)
and then a second extinction (in the Upper Pliocene) before man appeared. There is considerable
evidence in support of Professor R. S. Lull's conclusion, that in Southern Asia, Africa, and
South America the evolution of Primates was continuous since the first great southward migration,
and there is, of course, an abundant modern representation of Primates in these regions to-day.

As to the second question: Whence the Primates sprang, the answer must be more conjectural.
But it is a reasonable view that Carnivores and Primates sprang from a common Insectivore stock,
the one order diverging towards flesh-eating and hunting on the ground, the other order diverging
towards fruit-eating and arboreal habits. There is no doubt that the Insectivores (including
shrews, tree-shrews, hedgehog, mole, and the like) were very plastic and progressive mammals.

What followed in the course of ages was the divergence of branch after branch from the main
Primate stem. First there diverged the South American monkeys on a line of their own, and then
the Old World monkeys, such as the macaques and baboons. Ages passed and the main stems gave
off (in the Oligocene period) the branch now represented by the small anthropoid apes--the
gibbon and the siamang. Distinctly later there diverged the branch of the large anthropoid
apes--the gorilla, the chimpanzee, and the orang. That left a generalised humanoid stock separated
off from all monkeys and apes, and including the immediate precursors of man. When this sifting
out of a generalised humanoid stock took place remains very uncertain, some authorities referring
it to the Miocene, others to the early Pliocene. Some would estimate its date at half a million
years ago, others at two millions! The fact is that questions of chronology do not as yet admit
of scientific statement.

We are on firmer, though still uncertain, ground when we state the probability that it was
in Asia that the precursors of man were separated off from monkeys and apes, and began to be
terrestrial rather than arboreal. Professor Lull points out that Asia is nearest to the oldest
known human remains (in Java), and that Asia was the seat of the most ancient civilisations
and the original home of many domesticated animals and cultivated plants. The probability is
that the cradle of the human race was in Asia.

Man's Arboreal Apprenticeship

At this point it will be useful to consider man's arboreal apprenticeship and how he became
a terrestrial journeyman. Professor Wood Jones has worked out very convincingly the thesis
that man had no direct four-footed ancestry, but that the Primate stock to which he belongs
was from its first divergence arboreal. He maintains that the leading peculiarities of the
immediate precursors of man were wrought out during a long arboreal apprenticeship. The first
great gain of arboreal life on bipedal erect lines (not after the quadrupedal fashion of tree-sloths,
for instance) was the emancipation of the hand. The foot became the supporting and branch-gripping
member, and the hand was set free to reach upward, to hang on by, to seize the fruit, to lift
it and hold it to the mouth, and to hug the young one close to the breast. The hand thus set
free has remained plastic--a generalised, not a specialised member. Much has followed from
man's "handiness."

The arboreal life had many other consequences. It led to an increased freedom of movement of
the thigh on the hip joint, to muscular arrangements for balancing the body on the leg, to
making the backbone a supple yet stable curved pillar, to a strongly developed collar-bone
which is only found well-formed when the fore-limb is used for more than support, and to a
power of "opposing" the thumb and the big toe to the other digits of the hand and foot--an
obvious advantage for branch-gripping. But the evolution of a free hand made it possible to
dispense with protrusive lips and gripping teeth. Thus began the recession of the snout region,
the associated enlargement of the brain-box, and the bringing of the eyes to the front. The
overcrowding of the teeth that followed the shortening of the snout was one of the taxes on
progress of which modern man is often reminded in his dental troubles.

Another acquisition associated with arboreal life was a greatly increased power of turning
the head from side to side--a mobility very important in locating sounds and in exploring with
the eyes. Furthermore, there came about a flattening of the chest and of the back, and the
movements of the midriff (or diaphragm) came to count for more in respiration than the movements
of the ribs. The sense of touch came to be of more importance and the sense of smell of less;
the part of the brain receiving tidings from hand and eye and ear came to predominate over
the part for receiving olfactory messages. Finally, the need for carrying the infant about
among the branches must surely have implied an intensification of family relations, and favoured
the evolution of gentleness.

It may be urged that we are attaching too much importance to the arboreal apprenticeship, since
many tree-loving animals remain to-day very innocent creatures. To this reasonable objection
there are two answers, first that in its many acquisitions the arboreal evolution of the humanoid
precursors of man prepared the way for the survival of a human type marked by a great step
in brain-development; and second that the passage from the humanoid to the human was probably
associated with a return to mother earth.

According to Professor Lull, to whose fine textbook, Organic Evolution (1917), we are much
indebted, "climatic conditions in Asia in the Miocene or early Pliocene were such as to compel
the descent of the pre-human ancestor from the trees, a step which was absolutely essential
to further human development." Continental elevation and consequent aridity led to a dwindling
of the forests, and forced the ape-man to come to earth. "And at the last arose the man."

According to Lull, the descent from the trees was associated with the assumption of a more
erect posture, with increased liberation and plasticity of the hand, with becoming a hunter,
with experiments towards clothing and shelter, with an exploring habit, and with the beginning
of communal life.

It is a plausible view that the transition from the humanoid to the human was effected by a
discontinuous variation of considerable magnitude, what is nowadays called a mutation, and
that it had mainly to do with the brain and the vocal organs. But given the gains of the arboreal
apprenticeship, the stimulus of an enforced descent to terra firma, and an evolving brain and
voice, we can recognise accessory factors which helped success to succeed. Perhaps the absence
of great physical strength prompted reliance on wits; the prolongation of infancy would help
to educate the parents in gentleness; the strengthening of the feeling of kinship would favour
the evolution of family and social life--of which there are many anticipations at lower levels.
There is much truth in the saying: "Man did not make society, society made man."

A continuation of the story will deal with the emergence of the primitive types of man and
the gradual ascent of the modern species.

§ 4

Tentative Men

So far the story has been that of the sifting out of a humanoid stock and of the transition
to human kind, from the ancestors of apes and men to the man-ape, and from the man-ape to man.
It looks as if the sifting-out process had proceeded further, for there were several human
branches that did not lead on to the modern type of man.

1. The first of these is represented by the scanty fossil remains known as Pithecanthropus
erectus, found in Java in fossiliferous beds which date from the end of the Pliocene or the
beginning of the Pleistocene era. Perhaps this means half a million years ago, and the remains
occurred along with those of some mammals which are now extinct. Unfortunately the remains
of Pithecanthropus the Erect consisted only of a skull-cap, a thigh-bone, and two back teeth,
so it is not surprising that experts should differ considerably in their interpretation of
what was found. Some have regarded the remains as those of a large gibbon, others as those
of a pre-human ape-man, and others as those of a primitive man off the main line of ascent.
According to Sir Arthur Keith, Pithecanthropus was "a being human in stature, human in gait,
human in all its parts, save its brain." The thigh-bone indicates a height of about 5 feet
7 inches, one inch less than the average height of the men of to-day. The skull-cap indicates
a low, flat forehead, beetling brows, and a capacity about two-thirds of the modern size. The
remains were found by Dubois, in 1894, in Trinil in Central Java.

2. The next offshoot is represented by the Heidelberg man (Homo heidelbergensis), discovered
near Heidelberg in 1907 by Dr. Schoetensack. But the remains consisted only of a lower jaw
and its teeth. Along with this relic were bones of various mammals, including some long since
extinct in Europe, such as elephant, rhinoceros, bison, and lion. The circumstances indicate
an age of perhaps 300,000 years ago. There were also very crude flint implements (or eoliths).
But the teeth are human teeth, and the jaw seems transitional between that of an anthropoid
ape and that of man. Thus there was no chin. According to most authorities the lower jaw from
the Heidelberg sand-pit must be regarded as a relic of a primitive type off the main line of
human ascent.

