A few months passed away, and then one day the young lady came and gave Ma three ounces of
silver, saying, "You have often asked me for money, but in consequence of your bad luck I have
always refrained from giving you any. Now, however, your marriage is at hand, and I here give
you the cost of a wife, which you may also regard as a parting gift from me." Ma replied that
he was not engaged, to which the young lady answered that in a few days a go-between would
visit him to arrange the affair. "And what will she be like?" asked Ma. "Why, as your aspirations
are for 'surpassing' beauty," replied the young lady, "of course she will be possessed of surpassing
beauty." "I hardly expect that," said Ma; "at any rate, three ounces of silver will not be
enough to get a wife." "Marriages," explained the young lady, "are made in the moon; [40] mortals
have nothing to do with them." "And why must you be going away like this?" inquired Ma. "Because,"
answered she, "for us to meet only by night is not the proper thing. I had better get you another
wife and have done with you." Then when morning came she departed, giving Ma a pinch of yellow
powder, saying, "In case you are ill after we are separated, this will cure you." Next day,
sure enough, a go-between did come, and Ma at once asked what the proposed bride was like;
to which the former replied that she was very passable-looking. Four or five ounces of silver
was fixed as the marriage present, Ma making no difficulty on that score, but declaring he
must have a peep at the young lady. [41]  The go-between said she was a respectable girl, and
would never allow herself to be seen; however, it was arranged that they should go to the house
together, and await a good opportunity. So off they went, Ma remaining outside while the go-between
went in, returning in a little while to tell him it was all right. "A relative of mine lives
in the same court, and just now I saw the young lady sitting in the hall. We have only got
to pretend we are going to see my relative, and you will be able to get a glimpse of her."
Ma consented, and they accordingly passed through the hall, where he saw the young lady sitting
down with her head bent forward while some one was scratching her back. She seemed to be all
that the go-between had said; but when they came to discuss the money it appeared that the
young lady wanted only one or two ounces of silver, just to buy herself a few clothes, etc.,
which Ma thought was a very small amount; so he gave the go-between a present for her trouble,
which just finished up the three ounces his fox-friend had provided. An auspicious day was
chosen, and the young lady came over to his house; when lo! she was humpbacked and pigeon-breasted,
with a short neck like a tortoise, and feet which were fully ten inches long. The meaning of
his fox-friend's remarks then flashed upon him.

The Magnanimous Girl

At Chin-ling there lived a young man named Ku, who had considerable ability, but was very poor;
and having an old mother, he was very loth to leave home. So he employed himself in writing
or painting [42] for people, and gave his mother the proceeds, going on thus till he was twenty-five
years of age without taking a wife. Opposite to their house was another building, which had
long been untenanted; and one day an old woman and a young girl came to occupy it, but there
being no gentleman with them young Ku did not make any inquiries as to who they were or whence
they hailed. Shortly afterward it chanced that just as Ku was entering the house he observed
a young lady come out of his mother's door. She was about eighteen or nineteen, very clever
and refined-looking, and altogether such a girl as one rarely sets eyes on; and when she noticed
Mr Ku she did not run away, but seemed quite self-possessed. "It was the young lady over the
way; she came to borrow my scissors and measure," said his mother, "and she told me that there
is only her mother and herself. They don't seem to belong to the lower classes. I asked her
why she didn't get married, to which she replied that her mother was old. I must go and call
on her to-morrow, and find out how the land lies. If she doesn't expect too much, you could
take care of her mother for her." So next day Ku's mother went, and found that the girl's mother
was deaf, and that they were evidently poor, apparently not having a day's food in the house.
Ku's mother asked what their employment was, and the old lady said they trusted for food to
her daughter's ten fingers. She then threw out some hints about uniting the two families, to
which the old lady seemed to agree; but, on consultation with her daughter, the latter would
not consent. Mrs Ku returned home and told her son, saying, "Perhaps she thinks we are too
poor. She doesn't speak or laugh, is very nice-looking, and as pure as snow; truly no ordinary
girl." There ended that; until one day, as Ku was sitting in his study, up came a very agreeable
young fellow, who said he was from a neighbouring village, and engaged Ku to draw a picture
for him. The two youths soon struck up a firm friendship and met constantly, and later it happened
that the stranger chanced to see the young lady of over the way. "Who is that?" said he, following
her with his eyes. Ku told him, and then he said, "She is certainly pretty, but rather stern
in her appearance." By and by Ku went in, and his mother told him the girl had come to beg
a little rice, as they had had nothing to eat all day. "She's a good daughter," said his mother,
"and I'm very sorry for her. We must try and help them a little." Ku thereupon shouldered a
peck of rice, and, knocking at their door, presented it with his mother's compliments. The
young lady received the rice, but said nothing; and then she got into the habit of coming over
and helping Ku's mother with her work and household affairs, almost as if she had been her
daughter-in-law, for which Ku was very grateful to her, and whenever he had anything nice he
always sent some of it in to her mother, though the young lady herself never once took the
trouble to thank him. So things went on until Ku's mother got an abscess on her leg, and lay
writhing in agony day and night. Then the young lady devoted herself to the invalid, waiting
on her and giving her medicine with such care and attention that at last the sick woman cried
out, "O that I could secure such a daughter-in-law as you to see this old body into its grave!"
The young lady soothed her, and replied, "Your son is a hundred times more filial than I, a
poor widow's only daughter." "But even a filial son makes a bad nurse," answered the patient;
"besides, I am now drawing toward the evening of my life, when my body will be exposed to the
mists and the dews, and I am vexed in spirit about our ancestral worship and the continuance
of our line." As she was speaking Ku walked in; and his mother, weeping, said, "I am deeply
indebted to this young lady; do not forget to repay her goodness." Ku made a low bow, but the
young lady said, "Sir, when you were kind to my mother, I did not thank you; why then thank
me?" Ku thereupon became more than ever attached to her; but could never get her to depart
in the slightest degree from her cold demeanour toward himself. One day, however, he managed
to squeeze her hand, upon which she told him never to do so again; and then for some time he
neither saw nor heard anything of her. She had conceived a violent dislike to the young stranger
above mentioned; and one evening, when he was sitting talking with Ku, the young lady appeared.
After a while she got angry at something he said, and drew from her robe a glittering knife
about a foot long. The young man, seeing her do this, ran out in a fright and she after him,
only to find that he had vanished. She then threw her dagger up into the air, and whish! a
streak of light like a rainbow, and something came tumbling down with a flop. Ku got a light,
and ran to see what it was; and lo! there lay a white fox, head in one place and body in another.
"There is your friend," cried the girl; "I knew he would cause me to destroy him sooner or
later." Ku dragged it into the house, and said, "Let us wait till to-morrow to talk it over;
we shall then be more calm." Next day the young lady arrived, and Ku inquired about her knowledge
of the black art; but she told Ku not to trouble himself about such affairs, and to keep it
secret or it might be prejudicial to his happiness. Ku then entreated her to consent to their
union, to which she replied that she had already been as it were a daughter-in-law to his mother,
and there was no need to push the thing further. "Is it because I am poor?" asked Ku. "Well,
I am not rich," answered she, "but the fact is I had rather not." She then took her leave,
and the next evening when Ku went across to their house to try once more to persuade her the
young lady had disappeared, and was never seen again.

The Boon-companion

Once upon a time there was a young man named Ch'ê, who was not particularly well off, but at
the same time very fond of his wine; so much so that without his three stoups of liquor every
night he was quite unable to sleep, and bottles were seldom absent from the head of his bed.
One night he had waked up and was turning over and over, when he fancied some one was in the
bed with him; but then, thinking it was only the clothes which had slipped off, he put out
his hand to feel, and in doing so touched something silky like a cat. Striking a light, he
found it was a fox, lying in a drunken sleep like a dog; and then looking at his wine bottle
he saw that it had been emptied. "A boon-companion," said he, laughing, as he avoided startling
the animal, and, covering it up, lay down to sleep with his arm across it, and the candle alight
so as to see what transformation it might undergo. About midnight the fox stretched itself,
and Ch'ê cried, "Well, to be sure, you've had a nice sleep!" He then drew off the clothes,
and beheld an elegant young man in a scholar's dress; but the young man jumped up, and, making
a low obeisance, returned his host many thanks for not cutting off his head. "Oh," replied
Ch'ê, "I am not averse to liquor myself; in fact they say I'm too much given to it. If you
have no objection, we'll be a pair of bottle-and-glass chums." So they lay down and went to
sleep again, Ch'ê urging the young man to visit him often, and saying that they must have faith
in each other. The fox agreed to this, but when Ch'ê awoke in the morning his bedfellow had
already disappeared. So he prepared a goblet of first-rate wine in expectation of his friend's
arrival, and at nightfall sure enough he came. They then sat together drinking, and the fox
cracked so many jokes that Ch'ê said he regretted he had not known him before. "And truly I
don't know how to repay your kindness," replied the former, "in preparing all this nice wine
for me." "Oh," said Ch'ê, "what's a pint or so of wine?--nothing worth speaking of." "Well,"
rejoined the fox, "you are only a poor scholar, and money isn't so easily to be got. I must
see if I can't secure a little wine capital for you." Next evening, when he arrived, he said
to Ch'ê, "Two miles down toward the south-east you will find some silver lying by the wayside.
Go early in the morning and get it." So on the morrow Ch'ê set off, and actually obtained two
lumps of silver, with which he bought some choice morsels to help them out with their wine
that evening. The fox now told him that there was a vault in his backyard which he ought to
open; and when he did so he found therein more than a hundred strings of cash. [43] "Now then,"
cried Ch'ê, delighted, "I shall have no more anxiety about funds for buying wine with all this
in my purse!" "Ah," replied the fox, "the water in a puddle is not inexhaustible. I must do
something further for you." Some days afterward the fox said to Ch'ê, "Buckwheat is very cheap
in the market just now. Something is to be done in that line." Accordingly Ch'ê bought over
forty tons, and thereby incurred general ridicule; but by and by there was a bad drought, and
all kinds of grain and beans were spoilt. Only buckwheat would grow, and Ch'ê sold off his
stock at a profit of 1000 per cent. His wealth thus began to increase; he bought two hundred
acres of rich land, and always planted his crops, corn, millet, or what not, upon the advice
of the fox secretly given him beforehand. The fox looked on Ch'ê's wife as a sister, and on
Ch'ê's children as his own; but when subsequently Ch'ê died it never came to the house again.

The Alchemist [44]

At Ch'ang-an there lived a scholar named Chia Tzu-lung, who one day noticed a very refined-looking
stranger; and, on making inquiries about him, learned that he was a Mr Chên who had taken lodgings
hard by. Accordingly, Chia called next day and sent in his card, but did not see Chên, who
happened to be out at the time. The same thing occurred thrice; and at length Chia engaged
some one to watch and let him know when Mr Chên was at home. However, even then the latter
would not come forth to receive his guest, and Chia had to go in and rout him out. The two
now entered into conversation, and soon became mutually charmed with each other; and by and
by Chia sent off a servant to bring wine from a neighbouring wine-shop. Mr Chên proved himself
a pleasant boon-companion, and when the wine was nearly finished he went to a box and took
from it some wine-cups and a large and beautiful jade tankard; into the latter he poured a
single cup of wine, and immediately it was filled to the brim. They then proceeded to help
themselves from the tankard; but however much they took out, the contents never seemed to diminish.
Chia was astonished at this, and begged Mr Chên to tell him how it was done. "Ah," replied
Mr Chên, "I tried to avoid making your acquaintance solely because of your one bad quality--avarice.
The art I practise is a secret known to the Immortals only: how can I divulge it to you?" "You
do me wrong," rejoined Chia, "in thus attributing avarice to me. The avaricious, indeed, are
always poor." Mr Chên laughed, and they separated for that day; but from that time they were
constantly together, and all ceremony was laid aside between them. Whenever Chia wanted money
Mr Chên would bring out a black stone, and, muttering a charm, would rub it on a tile or a
brick, which was forthwith changed into a lump of silver. This silver he would give to Chia,
and it was always just as much as he actually required, neither more nor less; and if ever
the latter asked for more Mr Chên would rally him on the subject of avarice. Finally Chia determined
to try to get possession of this stone; and one day, when Mr Chên was sleeping off the fumes
of a drinking-bout, he tried to extract it from his clothes. However, Chên detected him at
once, and declared that they could be friends no more, and next day he left the place altogether.
About a year afterward Chia was one day wandering by the river-bank, when he saw a handsome-looking
stone, marvellously like that in the possession of Mr Chên; and he picked it up at once and
carried it home with him. A few days passed away, and suddenly Mr Chên presented himself at
Chia's house, and explained that the stone in question possessed the property of changing anything
into gold, and had been bestowed upon him long before by a certain Taoist priest whom he had
followed as a disciple. "Alas!" added he, "I got tipsy and lost it; but divination told me
where it was, and if you will now restore it to me I will take care to repay your kindness."
"You have divined rightly," replied Chia; "the stone is with me; but recollect, if you please,
that the indigent Kuan Chung [45] shared the wealth of his friend Pao Shu." At this hint Mr
Chên said he would give Chia one hundred ounces of silver; to which the latter replied that
one hundred ounces was a fair offer, but that he would far sooner have Mr Chên teach him the
formula to utter when rubbing the stone on anything, so that he might try the thing once himself.
Mr Chên was afraid to do this; whereupon Chia cried out, "You are an Immortal yourself; you
must know well enough that I would never deceive a friend." So Mr Chên was prevailed upon to
teach him the formula, and then Chia would have tried the art upon the immense stone washing-block
[46] which was lying near at hand had not Mr Chên seized his arm and begged him not to do anything
so outrageous. Chia then picked up half a brick and laid it on the washing-block, saying to
Mr Chên, "This little piece is not too much, surely?" Accordingly Mr Chên relaxed his hold
and let Chia proceed; which he did by promptly ignoring the half-brick and quickly rubbing
the stone on the washing-block. Mr Chên turned pale when he saw him do this, and made a dash
forward to get hold of the stone, but it was too late; the washing-block was already a solid
mass of silver, and Chia quietly handed him back the stone. "Alas! alas!" cried Mr Chên in
despair, "what is to be done now? For, having thus irregularly conferred wealth upon a mortal,
Heaven will surely punish me. Oh, if you would save me, give away one hundred coffins [47]
and one hundred suits of wadded clothes." "My friend," replied Chia, "my object in getting
money was not to hoard it up like a miser." Mr Chên was delighted at this; and during the next
three years Chia engaged in trade, taking care to fulfil always his promise to Mr Chên. At
the expiration of that time Mr Chên himself reappeared, and, grasping Chia's hand, said to
him, "Trustworthy and noble friend, when we last parted the Spirit of Happiness impeached me
before God, [48] and my name was erased from the list of angels. But now that you have carried
out my request that sentence has been rescinded. Go on as you have begun, without ceasing."
Chia asked Mr Chên what office he filled in Heaven; to which the latter replied that he was
only a fox who, by a sinless life, had finally attained to that clear perception of the truth
which leads to immortality. Wine was then brought, and the two friends enjoyed themselves together
as of old; and even when Chia had passed the age of ninety years the fox still used to visit
him from time to time.

CHAPTER XVI

Miscellaneous Legends

The Unnatural People

The Shan hai ching, or Hill and River Classic, contains descriptions of some curious people
supposed to inhabit the regions on the maps represented on the nine tripod vases of the Great
Yü, first emperor of the Hsia dynasty.

The Pygmies

The pygmies inhabit many mountainous regions of the Empire, but are few in number. They are
less than nine inches high, but are well formed. They live in thatched houses that resemble
ants' nests. When they walk out they go in companies of from six to ten, joining hands in a
line for mutual protection against birds that might carry them away, or other creatures that
might attack them. Their tone of voice is too low to be distinguished by an ordinary human
ear. They occupy themselves in working in wood, gold, silver, and precious stones, but a small
proportion are tillers of the soil. They wear clothes of a red colour. The sexes are distinguishable
by a slight beard on the men, and long tresses on the women, the latter in some cases reaching
four to five inches in length. Their heads are unduly large, being quite out of proportion
to their small bodies. A husband and wife usually go about hand in hand. A Hakka charcoal-burner
once found three of the children playing in his tobacco-box. He kept them there, and afterward,
when he was showing them to a friend, he laughed so that drops of saliva flew from his mouth
and shot two of them dead. He then begged his friend to take the third and put it in a place
of safety before he should laugh again. His friend attempted to lift it from the box, but it
died on being touched.

The Giants

In the Country of the Giants the people are fifty feet in height. Their footprints are six
feet in length. Their teeth are like those of a saw. Their finger-nails present the appearance
of hooked claws, while their diet consists wholly of uncooked animal food. Their eyebrows are
of such length as to protrude from the front of the carts in which they ride, large though
it is necessary for these vehicles to be. Their bodies are covered with long black hair resembling
that of the bear. They live to the advanced age of eighteen thousand years. Though cannibals,
they never eat members of their own tribe, confining their indulgence in human flesh chiefly
to enemies taken in battle. Their country extends some thousands of miles along certain mountain
ranges in North-eastern Asia, in the passes of which they have strong iron gates, easy to close,
but difficult to open; hence, though their neighbours maintain large standing armies, they
have thus far never been conquered.

The Headless People

The Headless People inhabit the Long Sheep range, to which their ancestors were banished in
the remote past for an offence against the gods. One of the said ancestors had entered into
a controversy with the rulers of the heavens, and they in their anger had transformed his two
breasts into eyes and his navel into a mouth, removed his head, leaving him without nose and
ears, thus cutting him off from smell and sound, and banished him to the Long Sheep Mountains,
where with a shield and axe, the only weapons vouchsafed to the people of the Headless Country,
he and his posterity were compelled to defend themselves from their enemies and provide their
subsistence. This, however, does not in the least seem to have affected their tempers, as their
bodies are wreathed in perpetual smiles, except when they flourish their warlike weapons on
the approach of an enemy. They are not without understanding, because, according to Chinese
notions of physiology, "their bellies are full of wisdom."

The Armless People

In the Mountains of the Sun and Moon, which are in the Centre of the Great Waste, are the people
who have mo arms, but whose legs instead grow out of their shoulders. They pick flowers with
their toes. They bow by raising the body horizontal with the shoulders, thus turning the face
to the ground.

The Long-armed and Long-legged People

The Long-armed People are about thirty feet high, their arms reaching from the shoulders to
the ground. Once when a company of explorers was passing through the country which borders
on the Eastern Sea they inquired of an old man if he knew whether or not there were people
dwelling beyond the waters. He replied that a cloth garment, in fashion and texture not unlike
that of a Chinese coat, with sleeves thirty feet in length, had been found in the sea. The
explorers fitted out an expedition, and the discovery of the Long-armed Country was the result.

The natives subsist for the most part on fish, which they obtain by wading in the water, and
taking the fish with their hands instead of with hooks or nets.

The arms of the Long-legged People are of a normal length, the legs are developed to a length
corresponding to that of the arms of the Long-armed People.

The country of the latter borders on that of the Long-legs. The habits and food of the two
are similar. The difference in their physical structure makes them of mutual assistance, those
with the long arms being able to take the shellfish of the shallow waters, while those with
the long legs take the surface fish from the deeper localities; thus the two gather a harvest
otherwise unobtainable.

The One-eyed People and Others

A little to the east of the Country of the Long-legs are to be found the One-eyed People. They
have but one eye, rather larger than the ordinary human eye, placed in the centre of the forehead,
directly above the nose. Other clans or families have but one arm and one leg, some having
a right arm and left leg, others a left arm and right leg, while still others have both on
the same side, and go in pairs, like shoes. Another species not only has but one arm and one
leg, but is of such fashion as to have but one eye, one nostril, and beard on but one side
of the face, there being as it were rights and lefts, the two in reality being one, for it
is in this way that they pair. The Long-eared People resemble Chinese in all except their ears.
They live in the far West among mountains and in caves. Their pendant, flabby ears extend to
the ground, and would impede their feet in walking if they did not support them on their hands.
They are sensitive to the faintest sound. Still another people in this region are distinguished
by having six toes on each foot.

The Feathered People, etc.

The Feathered People are very tall, and are covered with fluffy down. They have wings in place
of arms, and can fly short distances. On the points of the wings are claws, which serve as
hands. Their noses are like beaks. Gentle and timid, they do not leave their own country. They
have good voices, and like to sing ballads. If one wishes to visit this people he must go far
to the south-east and then inquire. There is also the Land of the People with Three Faces,
who live in the centre of the Great Waste and never die; the Land of the Three-heads, east
of the K'un-lun Mountains; the Three-body Country, the inhabitants of which have one head with
three bodies, three arms and but two legs; and yet another where the people have square heads,
broad shoulders, and three legs, and the stones on the land are all gold and jade.

The People of the Punctured Bodies

Another community is said to be composed of people who have holes through their chests. They
can be carried about on a pole put through the orifice, or may be comfortably hung upon a peg.
They sometimes string themselves on a rope, and thus walk out in file. They are harmless people,
and eat snakes that they kill with bows and arrows, and they are very long-lived.

The Women's Kingdom

The Women's Kingdom, the country inhabited exclusively by women, is said to be surrounded by
a sea of less density than ordinary water, so that ships sink on approaching the shores. It
has been reached only by boats carried thither in whirlwinds, and but few of those wrecked
on its rocks have survived and returned to tell of its wonders. The women have houses, gardens,
and shops. Instead of money they use gems, perforated and strung like beads. They reproduce
their kind by sleeping where the south wind blows upon them.

The Land of the Flying Cart

