Bengal is blessed with a mild climate and a fertile soil. Provisions are consequently cheap;
and as neither substantial houses nor expensive clothing is there essential to comfort, we
might naturally expect to see less of misery and destitution than in this country. Such, however,
is not the case. Our severe winter engenders habits of industry and forethought, which are
unknown in India. The ease with which in most cases their few wants are supplied, renders the
inhabitants of that country in the highest degree improvident; and nowhere do we see a greater
number of beggars, and misery and destitution paraded through the streets in more revolting forms.

There are no poor-laws in any part of India. Relief, however, is not withheld, nor indeed sparingly
bestowed. Many can afford to give a little; and where nothing is exacted, many give willingly.
Little charity is bestowed by Europeans in the streets, as they generally ride in palanquins
or carriages, and as, besides, they feel the weight even of a purse too much on a hot day.
However, let it not be supposed that they, like Dives, wallow in wealth, and close their ears
to the importunities of the heathen. The Baboo or Sircar gives weekly or monthly pensions to
some patronised beggars; and on a Saturday in some large towns, the blind, lame, and halt come
to the gates of the grandees, and receive from the trusty durwan or doorkeeper a handful of
cowries and coarse rice, of which one, two, or three rupees' worth are mixed up, according
to the circumstances of the master. But it is not to ordinary beggars I now propose to draw
the attention of the reader--the infirm or the lazy, with whom we are all tolerably familiar.
But in India there is another class of beggars--religious and professional beggars--who are
proud of their calling. I do not mean that there are no religious mendicants to be found at
home; but although the object to be attained in both countries may be similar, the agents employed
in the East are so different, that a description of them will to many European readers have
all the gloss of novelty.

The two principal sects in Bengal are known as Soneeassees and Byrâgees. The former exclusively
worship Mahado. 'They are not to inhabit houses or temples,' say their scriptures; 'but to
live in woods and forests, under the wide expanse of heaven, there to meditate upon the greatness
of the Creator, and contemplate his beautiful works.' An infant who is to become a Soneeassee
has from his birth the badge of Sheva upon him: no razor ever touches his hair, and his locks
are matted and dishevelled, when other children's are neatly combed and anointed. When he approaches
manhood, he takes the vow of celibacy, he receives from the hand of the Brahmin the muntra
or mystical creed, the dried skin of an antelope, and a piece of coarse, unbleached cotton,
stained yellow with ochre, which he can use as a plaid, it being seven feet long; upon the
skin he is supposed to sit and sleep, and the cloth overshadows the shoulders of the young
enthusiast. Even after these are worn out, as it is supposed that the devotee is pretty well
broken in to the hardships of his situation, they on no account may be renewed. These Soneeassees
seldom adhere to the letter of their religion in the present day, although it is said that
in times gone by some of their class have sat absorbed and abstracted until their spirit held
communion with the great god--their bodies wasting away from neglect, and their nails growing
like claws. In the present day, prayer and meditation are given to the winds, and they may
be seen fat and sleek, perambulating the streets of the towns and villages, smeared over with
ashes and ochre, and great coils of matted hair, which some tastefully wind like a turban round
their head. They take care also to display, in glaring red and white paint, upon their foreheads
and arms, the various insignia or marks of Sheva, such as the trident. Occasionally one also
flourishes about a steel trident, which the figure of Mahado always wields in his hand, and
which is also placed on the summit of his temple. The Soneeassees are the most impudent and
importunate of beggars. There came under my notice a band of three, who used regularly to visit
the town twice a week. These men had made a vow to collect a certain number of rupees to build
a temple, and for this purpose infested the doors of the wealthiest of the Hindoo community,
and followed and persecuted them even in their drives with continued cries. It is astonishing
how soon superstition enabled them to fulfil their vow, and how the extortioners were allowed
to escape the punishment their impudence deserved.

The Byrâgees are not so intrusive a sect. They frequently live in the open air, though not
prohibited from seeking other shelter. Their heads are differently treated from those of the
Soneeassees, for both men and women have the crown shaved quite smooth. Both sexes wear a piece
of cloth checked like shepherd's plaid. They have great strings of wooden beads, or malâhs,
turned out of the stalks of the holy toolsie, round their necks; and they generally collect
their rice and cowries in a dried gourd-shell. Persons of this sect at their death are placed
in an upright position in a deep grave, and so consumed with fire. In former times, the widows
used to burn themselves with their lords. The Byrâgees, when they attain years of discretion,
may choose their wives from any caste they please. Some of the Byragins, therefore, are said
to be far cleverer than the everyday Hindoo women, having been selected from a class which
are looked down upon by the others, but who are taught high accomplishments, and are devoted
to the temples of the gods. In his begging excursions the Byrâgee carries a pair of cymbals
or a small gong; and singing the songs of Krishna, and his courtships among the milkmaids,
he delights the hearts of his Hindoo hearers, and makes them lavish of their gifts.

The English reader perhaps has never heard of a beggar such as I shall now depict. One may
happen to be in a reflective mood, and aroused from his meditations by what he supposes to
be a cow lowing close to his ear. He starts up and goes to the window, but instead of that
quadruped he finds a man standing with a rope round his neck, and a woful countenance, holding
out his palms, indicating that he wants charity. This man has had the misfortune to lose his
cow; and as it died tethered, his religion imposes on him the penalty of begging from door
to door without speaking, but imitating the cow, till he has realised enough to purchase one
of these sacred animals, and to give something besides in charity to the Brahmins. This provision
was perhaps made by the religion of the country in favour of the cow, to preserve so useful
an animal from ill-treatment; and it is astonishing to see how implicitly the Hindoo submits
himself to a mere convention, which he might easily evade.

A LATE PRISON REPORT.

In the Sixteenth Report on the state of the Prisons, by Mr Frederic Hill, lately laid before
parliament, will be found some passages worthy of general attention. While speaking favourably
of the system of discipline now ordinarily pursued towards prisoners, Mr Hill is obliged to
admit that certain prisons are rendered much too attractive; in fact, that they create crime.
It is important that this condition of affairs should be known. Good food and medical attendance
are, it seems, the attractions. The following are Mr Hill's words, with the quotations he makes
from the statements of prison officials:--

'Several of the prisons continue to be attractive, to certain classes of persons, instead of
repulsive; owing, apparently in some instances, to the better dietary of the prison as compared
with that of the workhouse; in others, to the good medical treatment generally provided in
prisons; and in others, to a practice of giving prisoners clothing on their liberation, a practice
which, did the law permit, might be replaced by a rule enabling prisoners to earn clothing
by extra labour.

'The governor of the borough prison at Cambridge stated that many persons were reckless about
committing offences, because they preferred being sent to the prison to going to the workhouse,
owing chiefly (according to their statements) to their getting better food at the prison.

'The chaplain of the prison at Spilsby stated as follows:--"I am sorry to observe that the
present system of discipline here does not deter people from the commission of crime. Several
have said that they would rather come here than go to the Union workhouse." ...

'Mr Dunn, one of the surgeons of the prison at Wakefield, states--"I am convinced that many
persons, especially females, get committed to the prison on purpose to be cured of attacks
of disease. Many of them have admitted to me that it was so. A man from Bradford, who went
out last week, told me that he had been here before, and that he had got committed again in
consequence of his having a return of his disease, and that he came to be cured.... One man
who was here for a month last autumn, and who came in a very diseased state, but who left cured,
required, during nearly the whole time, a pint of wine per day, besides malt liquor. It was
a case in which a very liberal diet is necessary to preserve life; and it was requisite to
have a prisoner, acting as nurse, to sit up with him through the night. The cost to the West
Riding of this single case, counting expenses of all kinds, could not have been less than L.6."

'The governor of the city prison at York said--"By the acknowledgments of the prisoners themselves,
I know that the practice still continues of committing offences on purpose to get committed
to this prison. Four prisoners were liberated this morning who had broken a street-lamp with
the evident intention of being sent to this prison. They were sentenced to seven days' imprisonment,
and on their liberation each prisoner was supplied with a coat, waistcoat, pair of trousers,
and a pair of shoes, and one of them had a shirt also! Many times last winter gas-lamps and
the windows of the police-office and vagrant-office were broken, in order to get admission
to the prison. Out of eighteen male prisoners who were brought to trial at the last Quarter-Sessions,
twelve in my opinion committed their offences for the direct purpose of being sent to prison.
Most of the vagrants committed to the prison still pass their time in idleness; no prisoners
except those sentenced to hard labour being set to work."

'The following is an extract from the visiting justices' minute-book at the same prison:--

"Dec. 12th, 1849.--The number of prisoners who commit offences with the object of being maintained
during the winter increases yearly, and is deserving of serious consideration, as a serious
expense is entailed thereby on the city. The imprisonment inflicted is not looked on as a punishment,
but a reward."'

If such really be the case, it is evident that a wrong course has been pursued in making the
prisons so comfortable. Some years ago, when society was seized with a paroxysm of humanity,
prisons were got up in a style of palatial splendour, and criminals, the most worthless of
the population, were treated with a degree of tenderness which was opposed to every principle
of justice. Possibly the method of reclaiming by kindness was not bad in the abstract, and
in numerous instances it was perhaps effective; but in the main it was unsuitable to a complicated
condition of ignorance, poverty, vice, and wretchedness. It should have been borne in mind
that there is a distinct class of persons to whom any kind of provision is desirable, and who,
being sunk below all sentiments of self-respect, shame, and regret, would very willingly sell
themselves into slavery for the sake of a momentary gratification. To think of a warm, comfortable
prison being an object of dread to this utterly-abandoned class!

Another philosophical crotchet did no small mischief. It was alleged that hard labour on the
tread-mill would do harm: knowing that the labour tended to no useful purpose but merely the
turning of a wheel, prisoners would feel degraded, and this feeling would prevent their reclamation!
The error here consisted in imagining that the criminal class possessed the feelings of gentlemen;
whereas the real thing to be thought of, was to give them labour so excessively toilsome and
irksome as to be remembered with salutary horror all the days of their life. For example, no
kind of punishment, we believe, has proved so sure a terror as that of the shot-drill in the
military prisons. This consists in lifting a cannon-ball of perhaps twenty pounds' weight;
marching with it for a dozen yards; then laying it down; and so on, repeating the same thing
for an hour. Now this is clearly a useless and most degrading species of labour; yet it is
a terrible infliction, and we are told seldom fails in its effect--that is to say, it deters
from the commission of crime.

The experience of the last few years would shew that much is still to be learned in the art
of criminal discipline; and indeed the whole question of what is to be done with our criminal
population is becoming daily more perplexing. Mere confinement is found to be of small avail.
Transportation is exploded; for it improves the circumstances of criminals instead of making
them worse. Capital punishment has also had its day, and, excepting for a very few offences,
is abandoned as useless, independently of being revolting to humanity. One writer proposes
to work convicts in gangs at out-door labour, such as mining, and making railways; but the
public would never tolerate the spectacle of this worst species of slave-labour; and besides,
the employment of honest workers would be ruined. We are inclined to think that imprisonment,
in a severe form, is after all the only practicable means of dealing with criminals. If anything
be urgently wanted, it is a plan for preventing the growth of the criminal class; and this
probably is not so difficult as it may appear. Of course, till there be a far broader system
of public education than now prevails, the criminal population will never want recruits. Nevertheless,
even with our present imperfect educational arrangements, something might be done. The criminal
class is discovered to be on the whole a narrow class. The practice of living by depredation
runs in families, and clings to individuals. The police of any given town could put their hand
on almost every person who lives by fraud, theft, and robbery. They could at a day's notice
secure nearly every one of them. A knowledge of this fact has suggested to Mr Matthew Hill
a plan for capturing the whole criminal class, and obliging them to give security for their
good behaviour; failing which, they should suffer incarceration as notoriously dangerous and
troublesome to society. A fear of trenching on the liberty of the subject may prevent this
ingenious scheme of the Recorder of Birmingham from being carried into effect; but to something
or other of the kind he proposes, society must come at last, if it wish to save itself from
being everlastingly worried and plundered by a habitually predatory class. In the Prison Report
to which we have above referred, mention is made of a single family of thieves, consisting
of fifteen individuals, who cost the country L.26,000 before they were got rid of.