"I might have known it," he said. "These rebels have collected all the old ammunition they
could find and stored it here. Some of 'em have guns made in 1850, I guess."

Meanwhile, a rapid examination was being made. Buxton was right. While the rifles were center-fire,
a great many of the cartridges were rim-fire, and consequently useless unless broken and the
powder and ball rammed home as in the old muzzle-loaders. There were, however, among the little
mounds of cartridges, many that would fit the guns, and these were sorted with desperate energy
in the lull that followed the fighting.

Presently, one of the free-traders, with a piece of blanket tied about his rifle-barrel, appeared
in the foreground. The besieged, realizing the spirit in which the sign was offered, agreed
that it once might have represented a white flag.

"What do you want?" inquired Donald.

"Want to pick up our dead and wounded."

"Go ahead. Are you ready to talk surrender yet? I can offer you every consideration, if you
don't go on with your tactics."

"Quit wasting time, McTavish," cried Seguis, suddenly appearing beside his standard-bearer.
"We won't surrender--ever! We want that fort, and we're going to have it. If you get out now,
we won't hurt you. If you keep this thing up, I can't promise anything. My Indians here are
getting a little excited."

"All right, if that's the way you feel about it," Donald retorted. "Turn 'em loose. Say! Pick
up your men if you want to, but only two men on the field at once. Number three gets a bullet."

"All right."

A moment later, a couple of trappers, unarmed, walked out upon the declivity, and began to
haul their dead and wounded comrades back into shelter. During the lull, the besieged filled
their belts with what good ammunition there was--ten rounds per man. Bill Thompson wagged his
beard sagely over the lamentable situation they now faced, and remarked that it reminded him
of a time when he--

"Quick!" rang Donald's alarmed voice. "Through the logs! Fire!"

Without a word, the men, realizing instinctively what had occurred, shoved the noses of their
guns through the loopholes and fired pointblank, without aiming, at the band of men that had
stealthily crept upon them from behind while the truce negotiations had been going on.

They were barely thirty yards away, and coming fast, but the withering hail of lead that greeted
them crumpled their front line as though it were made of paper. The others, unable to see their
assailants, wavered a minute, and then broke, with the exception of one man.

"Hold your fire!" was the order, and the fleeing trappers gained the woods unmolested.

Not so the brave Indian who came on. There was nothing of retreat in his make-up. He had started
to charge the fort, and take it. The fort was still untaken, and he was still alive--two things
that seemed utterly incongruous to his mind.

"Don't fire," said McTavish.

