THE

ENGLISH SPY:

An Original Work

CHARACTERISTIC, SATIRICAL, AND HUMOROUS.

COMPRISING

SCENES AND SKETCHES IN EVERY RANK OF SOCIETY,

BEING

PORTRAITS

DRAWN FROM THE LIFE

BY BERNARD BLACKMANTLE.

THE ILLUSTRATIONS DESIGNED BY

ROBERT CRUIKSHANK.

By Frolic, Mirth, and Fancy gay, Old Father Time is borne away.

LONDON:

PUBLISHED BY SHERWOOD, JONES, AND CO.

PATERNOSTER-ROW.

1825.

BERNARD BLACKMANTLE{*} TO THE REVIEWERS.

    "But now, what Quixote of the age would care
     To wage a war with dirt, and fight with air?"

Messieurs the Critics,

After twelve months of agreeable toil, made easy by unprecedented success, the period has at
length arrived when your high mightinesses will be able to indulge your voracious appetites
by feeding and fattening on the work of death. Already does my prophetic spirit picture to
itself the black cloud of cormorants, swelling and puffing in the fulness of their editorial
pride, at the huge eccentric volume which has thus thrust itself into extensive circulation
without the usual cringings and cravings to the pick fault tribe. But

          I dare defy the venal crew that prates,
          From tailor Place* to fustian Herald Thwaites.{**}

     * The woolly editor of the Breeches Makers', alias the
     "Westminster Review."

     ** The thing who writes the leaden (leading) articles for
     the Morning Herald.

Let me have good proof of your greediness to devour my labours, and I will dish up such a meal
for you in my next volume, as shall go nigh to produce extermination by surfeit. One favour,
alone, I crave--give me abuse enough; let no squeamish pretences of respect for my bookseller,
or disguised qualms of apprehension for your own sacred persons, deter the natural inclination
of your hearts. The slightest deviation from your usual course to independent writers--or one
step towards commendation from your gang, might induce the public to believe I had abandoned
my character, and become one of your honourable fraternity-the very suspicion of which would
(to me) produce irretrievable ruin. Your masters, the trading brotherhood, will (as usual)
direct you in the course you should pursue; whether to approve or condemn, as their 'peculiar
interests may dictate. Most sapient sirs of the secret bandit' of the screen, inquisitors of
literature, raise all your arms and heels, your daggers, masks, and hatchets, to revenge the
daring of an open foe, who thus boldly defies your base and selfish views; for, basking at
his ease in the sunshine of public patronage, he feels that his heart is rendered invulnerable
to your poisoned shafts. Read, and you shall find I have not been parsimonious of the means
to grant you food and pleasure: errors there are, no doubt, and plenty of them, grammatical
and typographical, all of which I might have corrected by an errata at the end of my volume;
but I disdain the wish to rob you of your office, and have therefore left them just where I
made them, without a single note to mark them out; for if all the thistles were rooted up,
what would become of the asses? or of those

     "Who pin their easy faith on critic's sleeve,
     And, knowing nothing, ev'ry thing believe?"

Fully satisfied that swarms of literary blow flies will pounce upon the errors with delight,
and, buzzing with the ecstasy of infernal joy, endeavour to hum their readers into a belief
of the profundity of their critic erudition;--I shall nevertheless, with Churchill, laughingly
exclaim--"Perish my muse"

     "If e'er her labours weaken to refine
     The generous roughness of a nervous line."

Bernard Blackmantle.

CONTENTS.                                                         Page
     INTRODUCTION                                                    3

     PREFACE, IN IMITATION OF THE FIRST SATIRE OF
     PERSIUS                                                         5

     REFLECTIONS, ADDRESSED TO THOSE WHO CAN
     THINK.

     Reflections of an Author--Weighty Reasons for writing--
     Magister Artis Ingeniique Largitor Venter--Choice of Subject
     considered--Advice of Index, the Bookseller--Of the Nature
     of Prefaces--How to commence a new Work                         7

     A FEW THOUGHTS ON MYSELF                                       14

     A SHANDEAN SCENE, BETWEEN LADY MARY OLD--
     STYLE AND HORATIO HEARTLY                                      17

     SCHOOL--BOY REMINISCENCES. ON EARLY FRIEND--
     SHIP                                                           22

     CHARACTER OF BERNARD BLACKMANTLE. BY
     HORATIO HEARTLY                                                25

     ETON SKETCHES OF CHARACTER                                     32

     THE FIVE PRINCIPAL ORDERS OF ETON--DOCTOR,
     DAME, COLLEGER, OPPIDAN, AND CAD.       A
     Sketch taken opposite the Long Walk                            42

     ETON DAMES; AN ODE, NEITHER AMATORY, ILL--
     NATURED, NOR PATHETIC                                          43

     ELECTION SATURDAY.
     A Peep at the Long Chambers--The Banquet--Reflections
     on parting--Arrival of the Provost of King's College, Cam--
     bridge, and the Pozers--The Captain's Oration--Busy Monday
     --The Oppidan's Farewell--Examination and Election of the
     Collegers who stand for King's--The aquatic Gala and Fire--
     works--Oxonian Visitors--Night--Rambles in Eton--Transfor-
     mations of Signs and Names--The Feast at the Christopher,
     with a View of the Oppidan's Museum, and Eton Court of
     Claims                                                         58

     AN ETON ELECTION SCENE                                         59

     HERBERT STOCKHORE, THE MONTEM POET
     LAUREATE.

     A Sketch from the Life, as he appeared in the Montem
     Procession of May, 1823. By Bernard Blackmantle and
     Robert Transit                                                 67

     LIFE IN ETON;  A College Chaunt in praise of private
     Tutors                                                         68

     RECOLLECTIONS OF AN OLD ETONIAN                                78

     ETON MONTEM                                                    96

     FAREWELL TO ETON                                              105

     MY VALE                                                       108

     THE FRESHMAN.
     Reflections on leaving Eton University--A Whip--Sketches
     on the Road--The Joneses of Jesus--Picturesque Appearance
     of Oxford from the Distance--The Arrival--Welcome of an
     Old Etonian--Visit to Dr. Dingyman--A University Don--
     Presentation to the Big Wig--Ceremony of Matriculation        113

     CHRIST CHURCH COLLEGE.
     Architectural Reminiscences--Descriptive Remarks--Simi-
     litude between the Characters of Cardinal Wolsey and
     Napoleon                                                      129

     THE DINNER PARTY.
     Bernard Blackmantle's Visit to Tom Echo--Oxford Phrase-
     ology--Smuggled Dinners--A College Party described--
     Topography of a Man's Room--Portrait of a Bachelor of Arts
     --Hints to Freshmen--Customs of the University                132

     COLLEGE SERVANTS.
     Descriptive Sketch of a College Scout--Biography of Mark
     Supple--Singular Invitation to a Spread                       146

     TAKING POSSESSION OF YOUR ROOMS.
     Topography of a vacant College Larium--Anecdotes and
     Propensities of Predecessors--A Long Shot--Scout's List of
     Necessaries--Condolence of University Friends                 151

     THE EXCURSION TO BAGLEY WOOD                                  157

     WESTERN ENTRANCE INTO THE METROPOLIS.
     A descriptive Sketch.
     General Views of the Author relative to Subject and Style
     --Time and Place--Perspective Glimpse of the great City--
     The Approach--Cockney Salutations--The Toll House--
     Western Entrance to Cockney Land--Hyde Park--Sunday
     Noon-Sketches of Character, Costume, and Scenery--The
     Ride and Drive--Kensington Gardens--Belles and Beaux-
     Stars and fallen Stars--Singularities of 1824-Tales of Ton-
     On Dits and Anecdotes--Sunday Evening--High Life and
     Low Life, the Contrast--Cockney Goths--Notes, Biographical,
     Amorous, and Exquisite                                        164

     THE OPERA.
     The Man of Fashion--Fop's Alley--Modern Roué and
     Frequenters--Characteristic Sketches in High Life--Blue
     Stocking Illuminati--Motives and Manners--Meeting with
     the Honourable Lillyman Lionise--Dinner at Long's--Visit
     to the Opera--Joined by Bob Transit--A Peep into the
     Green Room--Secrets behind the Curtain--Noble Amateurs
     and Foreign Curiosities--Notes and Anecdotes by Horatio
     Heartly                                                       198

     THE ROYAL SALOON.
     Visit of Heartly, Lionise, and Transit--Description of the
     Place--Sketches of Character--The Gambling Parsons--Horse
     Chaunting, a true Anecdote--Bang and her Friends--Moll
     Raffle and the Marquis W.--he Play Man--The Touter--
     The Half-pay Officer--Charles Rattle, Esq.--Life of a modern
     Roue--B------ the Tailor--The Subject--Jarvey and Brooks
     the Dissector--"Kill him when you want him"                   205

     THE SPREAD, OR WINE PARTY AT BRAZEN-NOSE.
     A College Wine Party described--Singular Whim of
     Horace Eglantine--Meeting of the Oxford Crackademonians
     --Sketches of Eccentric Characters, drawn from the Life--
     The Doctor's Daughter--an old Song--A Round of Sculls--
     Epitaphs on the Living and the Dead--Tom Tick, a College
     Tale--The Voyagers--Notes and Anecdotes                       221

     THE OXFORD RAKE'S PROGRESS                                    233

     TOWN AND GOWN, AN OXFORD ROW.

     Battle of the Togati and the Town--Raff--A Night--Scene in
     the High-Street, Oxford--Description of the Combatants--
     Attack of the Gownsmen upon the Mitre--Evolutions of the
     Assailants--Manoeuvres of the Proctors and Bull--Dogs--
     Perilous Condition of Blackmantle and his Associates, Eglan-
     tine, Echo, and Transit--Snug Retreat of Lionise--The High--
     Street after the Battle--Origin of the Argotiers, and Inven-
     tion of Cant--phrases--History of the Intestine Wars and
     Civil Broils of Oxford, from the Time of Alfred--Origin
     of the late Strife--Ancient Ballad--Retreat of the Togati--
     Reflections of a Freshman--Black Matins, or the Effect of
     late Drinking upon early Risers--Visit to Golgotha, or the
     Place of Sculls--Lecture from the Big--Wigs--Tom Echo
     receives Sentence of Rustication                              246

     TOWNE AND GOWNE                                               263

     THE STAGE COACH, OR THE TRIP TO BRIGHTON.
     Improvements in Travelling--Contrast of ancient and
     modern Conveyances and Coachmen--Project for a new Land
     Steam Carriage--The Inn--yard at the Golden Cross, Charing
     Cross--Mistakes of Passengers--Variety of Characters--Ad-
     vantages of the Box--seat--Obstructions on the Road--A
     Pull--up at the Elephant and Castle--Move on to Kennington
     Common--New Churches--Civic Villas at Brixton--Modern
     Taste in Architecture described--Arrival at Croydon; why
     not now the King's Road?--The Joliffe Hounds--A Hunting
     Leader--Anecdotes of the Horse, by Coachee--The new
     Tunnel at Reigate--The Baron's Chamber--The Golden Ball
     --the Silver Ball--and the Golden Calf--Entrance into
     Brighton                                                      274

     THE PROPOSITION.
     Family Secrets--Female Tactics--How to carry the Point        287

     SKETCHES AT BRIGHTON.
     The Pavilion Party--Interior described--Royal and Noble
     Anecdotes--The King and Mathews                               292

     CHARACTERS ON THE BEACH AND STEYNE,
     BRIGHTON.
     On Bathing and Bathers--Advantages of Shampooing--
     French Decency--Brighton Politeness--Sketches of Character
     --The Banker's Widow--Miss J----s--Mrs. F----1--Peter
     Paragraph, he London Correspondent--J--k S----h--The
     French Consul--Paphian Divinities--C---- L----,  Esq.
     Squeeze into the Libraries--The new Plunging Bath--
     Chain Pier--Cockney Comicalities--Royal Gardens--The
     Club House                                                    305

     METROPOLITAN SKETCHES.
     Heartly, Echo, and Transit start for a Spree--Scenes by
     Daylight, Starlight, and Gaslight--Black Monday at Tatter--
     sail's--The first Meeting after the Great St. Leger--Heroes of
     the Turf paying and receiving--Dinner at Fishmongers' Hall
     --Committee of Greeks--The Affair of the Cogged Dice--A
     Regular Break--down--Rules for the New Club--The Daffy
     Club, or a Musical Muster of the Fancy: striking Portraits--
     Counting the Stars--Covent Garden, what it was and what it
     is--The Finish--Anecdotes of Characters--The Hall of Infamy,
     alias the Covent Garden Hell                                  327

     VISIT TO WESTMINSTER HALL.
     Worthies thereof--Legal Sketches of the Long Robe--An
     Awkward Recognition--Visit to Banco Regis--Surrey Col--
     legians giving a Lift to a Limb of the Law--Out of Rule and in
     Rule--"Thus far shalt thou go, and no further"--Park
     Rangers personified--Visit to the Life Academy, Somerset
     House--R. A--ys of Genius reflecting on the true Line of
     Beauty--Peep into the Green Rooms of the two Theatres Royal,
     Drury Lane and Covent Garden--Bernard Blackmantle
     reading his new Play and Farce--The City Ball at the Mansion
     House--The Squeeze--Civic Characters--Return to Oxford--
     Invite to Cambridge--Jemmy Gordon's Frolic--Term ends         355

     ILLUSTRATIONS IN THE ENGLISH SPY.

     (By R. CRUIKSHANK unless otherwise attributed)

     We hope it will be generally admitted that few volumes have
     a more decided claim upon the public patronage, in respect
     to the novelty and variety of design, as well as the number
     of illustrations, than the one here presented to the reader.
     To speak of the choice humorous talent engaged in the work
     would only be to re-echo the applauding sentiments of the
     reviewers and admirers of rich graphic excellence.
     Cruikshank and Rowlandson are names not unworthy a space
     upon the same roll with Hogarth, Gilray, and Bunbury: to
     exhibit scenes of character in real life, sketched upon the
     spot, was an undertaking of no mean importance;
     particularly, when it is remembered how great the difficulty
     must have been in collecting together accurate portraits.
     The work, it will be perceived, contains thirty-six Copper-
     Plates, etched, aquainted, and coloured, by and under the
     direction of the respective artists whose names appear to
     the different subjects, the principal part of which are the
     sole production of Mr. Robert Cruikshank. The Wood
     Engravings, twenty-eight in number, besides the Vignettes,
     (which are numerous), are equally full of merit; and will be
     found, upon examination, to be every way worthy the superior
     style of typographical excellence which characterises the
     volume,

     I.

     THE FRONTISPIECE

     Is intended to convey a general idea of the nature of the
     work; combining, in rich classic taste, a variety of
     subjects illustrative of the polished as well as the more
     humble scenes of real life. It represents a Gothic Temple,
     into which the artist, Mr. Robert Cruikshank, has introduced
     a greater variety of characteristic subject than was ever
     before compressed into one design. In the centre
     compartment, at the top, we have a view of a Terrestrial
     Heaven, where Music, Love, and gay Delight are all united to
     lend additional grace to Fashion, and increase the splendour
     of the revels of Terpsichore. In the niches, on each side,
     are the twin genii, Poetry and Painting; while the
     pedestals, right and left, present the protectors of their
     country, the old Soldier and Sailor, retired upon pensions,
     enjoying and regaling themselves on the bounty of their
     King. In the centre of the Plate are three divisions
     representing the King, Lords, and Commons in the full
     exercise of their prerogatives. The figures on each side are
     portraits of Bernard Blackmantle (the English Spy), and his
     friend, Robert Transit (the artist), standing on projecting
     pedestals, and playing with the world as a ball; not
     doubting but for this piece of vanity, the world, or the
     reviewers for them, will knock them about in return. On the
     front of the pedestals are the arms of the Universities of
     Oxford and Cambridge; and in the centre armorial shields of
     the Cities of London and Westminster. The picture of a
     modern Hell, in the centre, between the pedestals, has the
     very appropriate emblems of Misery and Death, in the niches
     on each side. Crowning the whole, the Genius of Wit is seen
     astride of an eagle, demonstrative of strength, and wielding
     in his hand the lash of Satire; an instrument which, in the
     present work, has been used more as a corrective of we than
     personal ill-nature.

     II.

     THE FIVE PRINCIPAL ORDERS OF SOCIETY.
     The King-Corinthian; an elegant Female-Composite; the
     Nobleman-Doric; a Member of the University-Ionic; and the
     Buck of Fashion-Tuscan. On the left hand may be seen a
     specimen of the Exquisite, a new order in high estimation at
     the west end of the Town; and on the right hand stands an
     old order of some solidity in the eastern parts of the
     Metropolis. Fashion, Taste, and Fame, are emblematical of
     the varied pursuits of life; while the Army and Navy of the
     country are the capitals that crown the superstructure,
     combining the ornamental with the useful.

     III.

     FIRST ABSENCE, OR THE SONS OF OLD ETONA
     ANSWERING MORNING MUSTER-ROLL.                                 25
     A view of the school-yard, Eton, at the time first Absence
     is called, and just when the learned Doctor Keat is reviewing
     the upper school.    (Portraits.)

     IV.

     THE OPPIDAN'S MUSEUM, OR ETON COURT OF
     CLAIMS AT THE CHRISTOPHER.                                     49
     Bernard Blackmantle and Robert Transit sitting in judge-
     ment after Election Saturday, apportioning the remuneration
     money to the different claimants of the surrounding trophies.

     V.

     ETON MONTEM, AND THE MOUNT, SALT HILL.                         96
     An accurate sketch of this ancient customary procession
     made upon the spot.

     VI.

     THE FIRST BOW TO ALMA MATER.                                  113
     Bernard Blackmantle's Introduction to the Big Wig on his
     Arrival at Oxford.

     VII.

     FLOORING OF MERCURY, OR BURNING THE OAKS.                     131
     A scene in Tom Quadrangle, Oxford.

          "If wits aright their tale of terror tell,
          A little after great Mercurius fell,

          ***

          Gownsmen and Townsmen throng'd the water's edge
          To gaze upon the dreadful sacrilege:

          ***

          ------there with drooping mien a silent band
          Canons and Bedmaker together stand:--

          ***

          In equal horror all alike were seen,
          And shuddering scouts forgot to cap the Dean."

     VIII.

     COLLEGE COMFORTS.                                             151
     Taking possession of your rooms. Bernard Blackmantle
     taking possession of his rooms in Brazennose. Scout's list of
     wants. Standing the quiz of the Togati Visible propensities
     of your predecessor. The day of purification.

     IX.

     CAP-ING A PROCTOR, OR OXFORD BULL-DOGS
     DETECTING BRAZENNOSE SMUGGLERS.                               152
     Tom Echo and Horace Eglantine lowering the plate-basket,
     after the College-gates are closed, to obtain a supply of fresh
     provision, are detected by the Proctor and Town Marshal with
     their Bull-Dogs: in their alarm the basket and its contents are
     suddenly let fall upon the Proctor, who is not able to under-
     stand the joke.

     X.

     THE ARRIVAL, OR WESTERN ENTRANCE INTO
     COCKNEY LAND.                                                 164
     Portrait of high and low life Dandies and Dandysettes.

     XI.
     THE GREEN-ROOM OF THE KING'S THEATRE, R
     NOBLE   AMATEURS VIEWING FOREIGN CURIOSITIES.           198
     Portraits of ten noble and distinguished patrons of the
     opera, with those of certain daughters of Terpsichore.

     XII.
     THE ROYAL SALOON IN PICCADILLY, OR AN HOUR
     AFTER THE OPERA.                                              205
     Heartly, Lionise, and Transit in search of Character--The
     gambling Parsons--Legs and Leg-ees-Tats men and touters--
     Moll Raffle and Bang.

     XIII.

     OXFORD TRANSPORTS, OR UNIVERSITY EXILES.                      235
     Albanians doing penance for past offences. A Scene sketched
     from the Life. Horace Eglantine is proposing "the Study of
     the Fathers," a favourite College toast, while Tom Echo is
     enforcing Obedience to the President's proposition by finishing
     off a Shirker. Dick Gradus having been declared absent, is
     taking a cool nap with the Ice-pail in his arms and his head
     resting upon a Greek Lexicon: in the left hand corner may
     be seen a Scout bearing off a dead Man, (but not without hope
     of Resurrection). Bob Transit and Bernard Blackmantle
     occupy the situation on each side of Dick Gradus; in the
     right-hand corner, Horace's servant is drawing the last Cork
     from the parting bottle, which is to welcome in the peep o' day.
     Injustice to the present authorities it should be stated,
     that this is a Scene of other limes.--Vide A.

     XIV.
     SHOW SUNDAY, A VIEW IN THE BROAD WALK,
     CHRIST CHURCH MEADOWS, OXFORD.                                244
     Portraits of the Togati and the town, including big wigs,
     nobs, and dons. Among the more conspicuous are Dr. Kett,
     Lord G. Grenville, Dr. Grovesnor, Alderman Fletcher, and
     Mr. Swan.

     XV.
     TOWN AND GOWN.                                                246
     Battle of the Togati and Town Raff of Oxford, a night scene.
     --Bernard and his Friends, Horace and Tom, distributing
     among the Bargees of St. Clement's.

     XVI.

     BLACK MATINS, OR THE EFFECTS OF LATE
     DRINKING UPON EARLY RISERS.                                   269
     A Most Imposing Scene.-Time seven o'clock in the Morn-
     ing, the last bell has just tolled, and the University Men have
     just turned out, while the hunting-frock, boots, and appear-
     ance of some of the party, proclaim that they have just turned
     in; all are eager to save fine and imposition, and not a few are
     religiously disturbed in their Dreams. The admirable disorder
     of the party is highly illustrative of the Effect produced by an
     Evening Wine Party in College Rooms.

     XVII.
     GOLGOTHA, OR THE PLACE OF SCULLS.                             272
     Tom Echo receiving sentence of Rustication. The Big Wigs
     in a Bustle. Lecture on disobedience and chorus of the
     Synod. Reports from the Isle of Bull dogs. Running foul
     of the Quicksands of Rustication after having passed Point
     Failure and The Long Hope. Nearly blown up at Point
     Nonplus, and obliged to lay by to refit.

     XVIII.
     THE EVENING PARTY AT THE PAVILION,
     BRIGHTON. (BY O. M. BRIOHTY.)                                 296
     Interior of the Yellow Room--Portraits of His Majesty,
     the Duke of York, and Princess Augusta, Marquis and
     Marchioness of Conyngham, Earl of Arran, Lord Francis
     Conyngham, Lady Elizabeth and Sir H. Barnard, Sir H.
     Turner, Sir W. Knighton, Sir E. Nagle, and Sir C. Paget,
     sketched from the Life.

     XIX.
     THE KING AT HOME, OR MATHEWS AT CARLTON
     HOUSE.                                                        298
     A scene founded on fact; including Portraits of the King,
     Mathews, and other celebrated persons.

     XX.
     A FROLIC IN HIGH LIFE, OR, A VISIT TO BILLINGS-
     GATE.                                                         303
     A very extraordinary whim of two very distinguished
     females, whose Portraits will be easily recognised.

     XXI.
     CHARACTERS ON THE STEYNE, BRIGHTON.                           309
     Portraits of illustrious, noble, and wealthy Visitors--The
     Banker's Widow--A Bathing Group--The Chain Pier, &c.

     XXII.
     TOM ECHO LAID UP WITH THE HEDDINGTON
     FEVER, OR AN OXONIAN VERY NEAR THE
     WALL.                                                         323
     Symptoms of having been engaged too deeply in the study
     of Hie fathers. Portrait of a well-known Esculapian chief.

     XXIII.

     MONDAY AFTER THE GREAT ST. LEGER, OR
     HEROES OF THE TURF PAYING AND RECEIVING
     AT TATTERSALL'S.                                              329
     This sketch was made upon the spot by my friend Transit,
     on the Monday following the result of the last Great St. Leger
     in 1823, when the Legs were, for the most part, in mourning
     from the loss of their favourite Sherwood. Some long faces
     will be easily recognized, and some few round ones, though
     Barefoots, not easily be forgotten. The Tinkers were many
     of them Levanters. Here may be seen the Peer and the Prig,
     the Wise one and the Green one, the Pigeon and the Rook
     amalgamated together. It is almost unnecessary to say, the
     greater part of the characters are portraits.

     XXIV.

     EXTERIOR OF FISHMONGERS'-HALL, ST. JAMES'S
     STREET, WITH A VIEW OF A REGULAR BREAKDOWN.                   331
     Portraits of the Master Fishmonger, and many well-
     known Greeks and Pigeons.

     XXV.

     INTERIOR OF A MODERN HELL.    (Vide the affair of
     the cogged dice.)                                             334
     Portraits of upwards of twenty well-known Punters and
     Frequenters--Greeks and Pigeons, noble and ignoble--The
     Fishmonger in a fright, or the gudgeon turned shark--Expose
     of Saint Hugh's Bones--Secrets worth knowing.    (See work.)

     XXVI.
     THE DAFFY CLUB,   OR A   MUSICAL MUSTER OF
     THE FANCY.                                                    339
     Interior of Tom Belcher's Parlour. Heartly and Bob in
     search of Character. Striking likenesses of Boxers, Betters,
     &c.--with a pen and ink Sketch of a Noted--one--a fine
     School for Practical Experience. (For key to Portraits-
     see work.)

     XXVII.

     PEEP 0' DAYS AND FAMILY MEN AT THE FINISH.                    342
     A Night Scene near Covent Garden--Coffee and comical
     company.

     XXVIII.
     FAMILY MEN AT FAULT, OR AN UNEXPECTED
     VISIT FROM THE BISHOP AND HIS CHAPLAINS.                      345
     A Scene near Covent Garden, in which are introduced
     certain well-known Characters and Bow-street Officers: in-
     cluding Messrs. Bishop, Smith, Ruthven, and Townshend.

     XXIX.

     THE HALL OF INFAMY, ALIAS OYSTER SALOON,
     IN BRYDGES-STREET, OR NEW COVENT GARDEN HELL.                 354
     Portraits of the old Harridan and her Flask man Tom.
     Sketches of Sharps and Flats, Green ones and Impures.
     Done from the Life.

     XXX.

     WESTMINSTER HALL.                                             361
     Portraits of well-known Worthies of the Bar.--The Maiden
     Brief.--Dick Gradus examining a Witness.

     XXXI.

     SURREY COLLEGIANS GIVING A LIFT TO A LIMB
     OF THE LAW.                                                   364
     Interior of the King's Bench Prison--Rough-drying a Lawyer.

     XXXII. (BY T.   ROWLANDSON.)                        365
     Bob Transit's first appearance as a student. Sketching
     from the Life. Outlines of character. How to grow rich but
     not great. Secrets worth knowing, and Portraits of all the
     Well-known.

     XXXIII.

     BERNARD BLACKMANTLE READING HIS PLAY IN
     THE GREEN-ROOM OF COVENT GARDEN THEATRE.                      366
     Portraits of Messrs. C. Kemble, Fawcett, Farley, Jones,
     Farren, Grimaldi, Macready, Young, T. P. Cooke, Chapman,
     Blanchard, Abbott, Cooper, Yates, and the English Spy;
     Mrs. Davenport, Miss Chester, Miss M. Tree, Miss Love, and
     Mrs. Davison.

     XXXIV.

     BERNARD BLACKMANTLE READING HIS FARCE IN
     THE GREEN ROOM OF THE THEATRE ROYAL,
     DRURY LANE.  (by T. Wageman.)                                 367
     Portraits of Elliston, Dowton, Harley, Munden, Knight,
     Liston, Oxberry, Sherwin, Gattie, Wallack, Terry, G. Smith,
     and Barnard, Miss Stephens, Mrs. Orger, Madame Vestris,
     Mrs. Harlowe, and the English Spy. The Likenesses are all
     studies from the life.

     XXXV.
     THE CITY BALL AT THE MANSION HOUSE.                           368
     Portraits of the Duke of Sussex, the Lord Mayor (Waith-
     man) and Lady Mayoress, the Sheriffs Laurie and Whittaker,
     Aldermen Wood and Curtis, Sir Richard Phillips, Messrs.
     Hone, Patten, with other well-known Characters.

     XXXVI.
     JEMMY GORDON'S FROLIC.                           369
     A Cambridge tale. Vide Peter House.

     ILLUSTRATIONS ON WOOD

     FROM ORIGINAL DESIGNS BY CRUIKSHANK, ROWLANDSON,
     GILRAY, AND FINLAY, ENGRAVED BY BONNER AND HUGHES.

     VIGNETTE ON TITLE PAGE.
     Old Father Time borne away on the shoulders of the Genii,
     Frolic, Mirth, and Fancy.

     1.   The Author's Chamber--Index, the bookseller, and Ber-
     nard Blackmantle, projecting a new work

     2.   Horatio Heartly reading the "English Spy" to Lady
     Mary Oldstyle                                                  17

     3.   A correct view of Eton College from the playing-fields    32

     4.  The Cloisters, Eton College                                58

     6.   Accurate View of the Interior of Eton College Hall        96

     8.   Interior of Eton School Room                             105

     9.   The Oxonian reclining, an emblematical design            111

     10.  Five characteristic orders of Oxford                     113

     11.  Portrait of Mr. B--the classical Alma Mater Coachman
     of Oxford                                                     128

     12.  View of Christchurch College                             129

     13.  A Bachelor of Arts drinking of the Pierian Spring        136

     14.  View of Bagley Wood with the Gipsy party. An
     extraordinary fine specimen of art, by Bonner.                157

     15.   Mother Goose, a portrait                                162

     16.   Kensington Gardons, Sunday Evening. Portraits of
     well-known fashionable eccentricities                         164

     17.   Vignette.--he Subject and the Resurrection Jarvey,
     or "Kill him when you want him"                               220

     18.   Albanians starting for a spree, or Tom Tick on the road
     to Jericho                                                    233

     19.  Waiting for bail                                         240

     20.  The Don and the fair of St. Clement's. An Oxford
     scene                                                         243

     21.   The University Rake's Progress                          273

     22.   The newly invented Steam Coach                          274

     23.   View of the Pavilion, Brighton, from the London Road    286

     24.  A Night Scene, or, a rum start near B---- H----l         304

     25.   The Widow's ultimatum. A cutting joke, with a most
     affecting catastrophe                                         313

     26.   College Frolics, or catching Urals at Ch. Ch.           325

     27.   Roues rusticating in Surrey, or, the first glimpse of
     Banco Regis                                                   363

     28.   Term, ends--Adieu to fagging--The High-street, Oxford
     --The Togati in a bustle--The merry good bye                  370

THE ENGLISH SPY.

     Nor rank, nor order, nor condition,
     Imperial, lowly, or patrician,
     Shall, when they see this volume, cry,
     "The satirist has pass'd us by:"
     But, with good humour, view our page
     Depict the manners of the age.

INTRODUCTION.

     "The proper study of mankind is man."

A RHAPSODY.

Life's busy scene I sing! Its countenance, and form, and varied hue, drawn within the compass
of the eye. No tedious voyage, or weary pilgrimage o'er burning deserts, or tempestuous seas,
my progress marks, to trace great nature's sources to the fount, and bare her secrets to the
common view.

     In search of wonders, let the learn'd embark,
     From lordly Elgin, to lamented Park,
     To find out what I perhaps some river's course,
     Or antique fragments of a marble horse;
     While I, more humble, local scenes portray,
     And paint the men and manners of the day.

Life's a theatre, man the chief actor, and the source from which the dramatist must cull his
choicest beauties, painting up to nature the varied scenes which mark the changeful courses
of her motley groups. Here she opes her volume to the view of contemplative minds, and spreads
her treasures forth, decked in all the variegated tints that Flora, goddess of the flowery
mead and silvery dell, with many coloured hue, besprinkles the luxuriant land.

Here, reader, will we travel forth, and in our journey make survey of all that's interesting
and instructive. Man's but the creature of a little hour, the phantom of a transitory life;
prone to every ill, subject to every woe; and oft the more eccentric in his sphere, as rare
abilities may gild his brow, setting form, law, and order at defiance. His glass a third decayed
'fore reason shines, and ere perfection crowns maturity, he sinks forgotten in his parent dust.
Such then is man, uncertain as the wind, by nature formed the creature of caprice, and as Atropos
wills, day by day, we number to our loss some mirth-enlivening soul, whose talents gave a lustre
to the scene.-Serious and solemn, thoughts be hence away! imagination wills that playful satire
reign:--by sportive fancy led, we take the field.

~4~~

PREFACE, IN IMITATION OF THE FIRST SATIRE OF PERSIUS.

DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE AUTHOR AND HIS FRIEND.

Author. However dangerous, or however vain, I am resolved.

Friend. You'll not offend again?

Author. I will, by Jove!

Friend. Take my advice, reflect; Who'll buy your sketches 1

Author. Many, I expect.

Friend. I fear but few, unless, Munchausen-like, You've something strange, that will the public
strike: Men with six heads, or monsters with twelve tails, Who patter flash, for nothing else
prevails In this dull age.

Author. Then my success is certain; I think you'll say so when I draw the curtain, And, presto!
place before your wond'ring eyes A race of beings that must 'cite surprise; The strangest compound
truth and contradiction Owe to dame Nature, or the pen of Action; Where wit and folly, pride
and modest worth, Go hand in hand, or jostle at a birth; Where prince, peer, peasant, politician
meet, And beard each other in the public street; ~6~~ Where ancient forms, though still admired,
Are phantoms that have long expired; Where science droops 'fore sovereign folly, And arts are
sick with melancholy; Where knaves gain wealth, and honest fellows, By hunger pinch'd, blow
knav'ry's bellows; Where wonder rises upon wonder--

Friend. Hold! Or you may leave no wonders to be told. Your book, to sell, must have a subtle
plot--Mark the Great Unknown, wily ***** ****: Print in America, publish at Milan; There's
nothing like this Scotch-Athenian plan, To hoax the cockney lack-brains.

Author. It shall be: Books, like Madeira, much improve at sea; 'Tis said it clears them from
the mist and smell Of modern Athens, so says sage Cadell, Whose dismal tales of shipwreck,
stress of weather, Sets all divine Nonsensia mad together; And, when they get the dear-bought
novel home, "They love it for the dangers it has overcome."

Friend. I like your plan: "art sure there's no offence?"

Author. None that's intended to wound common-sense. For your uncommon knaves who rule the town,
Your M.P.'s, M.D.'s, R.A.'s and silk gown, Empirics in all arts, every degree, Just Satire
whispers are fair game for me.

Friend. The critic host beware!

Author. Wherefore, I pray? "The cat will mew, the dog will have his day." Let them bark on!
who heeds their currish note Knows not the world--they howl, for food, by rote.

Author (solus). I must write--my last sovereign has long since been transferred to the safe
keeping of mine hostess, to whom I have the honor to be obliged. I just caught a glance of
her inflexible countenance this morning in passing the parlour door; and methought I could
perceive the demon aspect of suspicion again spreading his corrosive murky hue over her furrowed
front. The enlivening appearance of my golden ambassador had for a few days procured me a faint
smile of complacency; but the spell is past, and I shall again be doomed to the humiliation
~8~~ of hearing Mrs Martha Bridget's morning lectures on the necessity of punctuality. Well,
she must be quieted, (i.e.) promise crammed, (satisfied, under existing circumstances, is impossible):
I know it will require no little skill to obtain fresh supplies from her stores, without the
master-key which unlocks the flinty heart; but nil desperandum, he who can brave a formidable
army of critics, in pursuit of the bubble fame, may at least hope to find wit enough to quiet
the interested apprehensions of an old woman. And yet how mortifying is the very suspicion
of inattention and disrespect. I have rung six times for my breakfast, and as many more for
my boots, before either have made their appearance; the first has indeed just arrived, with
a lame apology from mine hostess, that the gentleman on the first floor is a very impetuous
fellow, requires prompt attention, gives a great deal of trouble--but--then he pays a great
deal of money, and above all, is very punctual: here is my quietus at once; the last sentence
admits of no reply from a pennyless author. My breakfast table is but the spectre of former
times;--no eggs on each side of my cup, or a plate of fresh Lynn shrimps, with an inviting
salt odour, that would create an appetite in the stomach of an invalid; a choice bit of dried
salmon, or a fresh cut off the roll of some violet-scented Epping butter;--all have disappeared;
nay, even the usual allowance of cream has degenerated into skimmed milk, and that is supplied
in such cautious quantities, that I can scarce eke it out to colour my three cups of inspiring
bohea.

(A knock at the door.) That single rap at the street door is very like the loud determined
knock of a dun. The servant is ascending the stairs--it must be so--she advances upon the second
flight;--good heavens, how stupid!--I particularly told her I should not be in town to any
of these people for a month. The inattention of servants is unbearable; they can tell fibs
~9~~ enough to suit their own purposes, but a little white one to serve a gentleman lodger,
to put off an impertinent tradesman, or save him from the toils of a sheriffs officer, is sure
to be marred in the relation, or altogether forgotten. I'll lock my chamber door, however,
by way of precaution. (Servant knocking.) "What do you want?" "Mr. Index, sir, the little gentleman
in black." "Show him up, Betty, directly." The key is instantly turned; the door set wide open;
and I am again seated in comfort at my table: the solicitude, fear, and anxiety, attendant
upon the apprehensions of surprise, a bailiff, and a prison, all vanish in a moment.

"My dear Index, you are welcome; the last person I expected, although the first I could have
wished to have seen: to what fortunate circumstance am I to attribute the honor of this friendly
visit?"

"Business, sir; I am a man of business: your last publication has sold pretty well, considering
how dreadfully it was cut up in the reviews; I have some intention of reprinting a short edition,
if you are not too exorbitant in your demands; not that I think the whole number will be sold,
but there is a chance of clearing the expenses. A portrait by Wageman, the announcement of
a second edition, with additions, may help it off; but then these additional costs will prevent
my rewarding your merits to the extent I am sensible you deserve."

"Name your own terms, Index, for after all you know it must come to that, and I am satisfied
you will be as liberal as you can afford." Put in this way, the most penurious of the speculating
tribe in paper and print would have strained a point, to overcome their natural infirmity:
with Index it was otherwise; nature had formed him with a truly liberal heart: the practice
of the trade, and the necessary caution attendant upon bookselling speculations, only operated
as a check to the noble-minded generosity of the ~10~~ man, without implanting in his bosom
the avarice and extortion generally pursued by his brethren.

The immediate subject of his visit arranged to our mutual satisfaction, I ventured to inquire
what style of work was most likely to interest the taste of the town. 'The town itself--satire,
sir, fashionable satire. If you mean to grow rich by writing in the present day, you must first
learn to be satirical; use the lash, sir, as all the great men have done before you, and then,
like Canning in the Cabinet, or Gifford and Jeffery as reviewers, or Byron and Southey as poets,
you will be followed more from the fear of your pen than from the splendour of your talents,
the consistency of your conduct, or the morality of your principles. Sir, if you can but use
the tomahawk skilfully, your fortune is certain. 'Sic itur ad astra.' Read Blackwood's Noctea
Ambrosiance. Take the town by surprise, folly by the ears; 'the glory, jest, and riddle of
the world' is man; use your knowledge of this ancient volume rightly, and you may soon mount
the car of fortune, and drive at random wherever your fancy dictates. Bear in mind the Greek
proverb, 'Mega biblion, mega kakon.' In your remarks, select such persons who, from their elevated
situations in society, ought to be above reproof, and whose vices are, therefore, more worthy
of public condemnation:

     '------------Ridiculum acri
     Fortius ac melius magnas plerumque secat res.'

By this means you will benefit the state, and improve the morals of society. The most wholesome
truths may be told with pleasantry. Satire, to be severe, needs not to be scurrilous. The approval
of the judicious will always follow the ridicule which is directed against error, ignorance,
and folly."

How long little Index might have continued in this strain I know not, if I had not ventured
to suggest ~11~~ that the course he pointed out was one of great difficulty, and considerable
personal hazard; that to arrive at fortune by such means, an author must risk the sacrifice
of many old connexions, and incur no inconsiderable dangers; that great caution would be necessary
to escape the fangs of the forensic tribe, and that in voluntarily thrusting his nose into
such a nest of hornets, it would be hardly possible to escape being severely stung in retaliation.
"Pulchrum est accusari ah accusandis," said my friend, the bookseller, "who has suffered more
by the fashionable world than yourself? Have you not dissipated a splendid patrimony in a series
of the most liberal entertainments? Has not your generous board been graced with the presence
of royalty? and the banquet enriched by the attendant stars of nobility, from the duke to the
right honorable knight commander. And have you not since felt the most cruel neglect from these
your early associates, and much obliged friends, with no crime but poverty, with no reproach
but the want of prudence? Have you not experienced ingratitude and persecution in every shape
that human baseness could find ingenuity to inflict? And can you hesitate to avail yourself
of the noble revenge in your power, when it combines the advantages of being morally profitable
both to yourself and society?

     '------------Velat materna tempora myrto.'
     Virg.

     'When Vice the shelter of a mask disdain'd,
     When Folly triumph'd, and a Nero reign'd,
     Petronius rose satiric, yet polite,
     And show'd the glaring monster full in sight;
     To public mirth exposed the imperial beast,
     And made his wanton court the common jest.'"

With this quotation, delivered with good emphasis, little Index bade me good morning, and left
me impressed with no mean opinion of his friendship, ~12~~ and with an increased admiration
of his knowledge of the world.

But how (thought I) am I to profit by his advice? In what shape shall I commence my eccentric
course? A good general at the head of a large army, on the eve of a general battle, with the
enemy full in view, feels less embarrassment than a young author finds in marshalling his crude
ideas, and placing the raw recruits of the brain in any thing like respectable order. For the
title, that is quite a matter of business, and depends more upon the bookseller's opinion of
what may be thought attractive than any affinity it may possess to the work itself. Dedications
are, thanks to the economy of fashion, out of date: great men have long since been laughed
into good sense in that particular. A preface (if there be one) should partake something of
the spirit of the work; for if it be not brief, lively, and humorous, it is ten to one but
your reader falls asleep before he enters upon chapter the first, and when he wakes, fears
to renew his application, lest he should be again caught napping. Long introductions are like
lengthy prayers before meals to hungry men, they are mumbled over with unintelligible rapidity,
or altogether omitted, for the more solid gratifications of the stomach, or the enjoyments
of the mind. In what fantastic shape and countenance then shall an author appear to obtain
general approbation? or in what costume is he most likely to insure success?

If he assumes a fierce and haughty front, his readers are perhaps offended with his temerity,
and the critics enraged at his assurance. If he affects a modest sneaking posture, and humbly
implores their high mightinesses to grant him one poor sprig of laurel, he is treated slightingly,
and despised, as a pitiful fellow who wants that essential ingredient in the composition of
a man of talent and good breeding, ycleped by the moderns confidence. If he speaks of ~13~~
the excellence of his subject, he creates doubts both with his readers and reviewers, who will
use their endeavours to convince him he has not a correct knowledge of his own abilities. But
if, like a well bred man at court, he enters the drawing-room of literature in good taste,
neither too mean nor too gaudy, too bold or too formal, makes his bow with the air and finish
of a scholar and a gentleman, and passes on to his place, unheedful of remark (because unconscious
of offence), he is sure to command respect, if he does not excite admiration.

Accept then, reader, this colloquial chapter, as the author's apology for a preface, an imaginary
short conference, or letter of introduction, which brings you acquainted with the eccentric
writer of this volume; and as in all well regulated society a person is expected to give some
account of himself before he is placed upon terms of intimacy with the family, you shall in
the next page receive a brief sketch of the characteristics of the author.

~13~~

A FEW THOUGHTS ON MYSELF.

The early biography of a man of genius is seldom, if ever, accurately given to the public eye,
unless, indeed, he is one of those rara avis who, with the advantages of great qualifications,
inherits high ancestral distinctions. But if, as is generally the case, from obscurity of birth
and humble life he rises into notice by the force and exertion of his talents, the associates
of his brighter fortunes know but little of the difficulties which have obstructed his progress,
or the toils and fatigues he has endured, to arrive at that enviable point from which the temple
of Fame, and the road to fortune, may be contemplated with some chance of enjoyment and success.
Unwilling to speak of himself, lest he should incur the charge of vanity or egotism, he modestly
trusts to the partial pen of friendship, or the conjectural pen of the commentator, to do justice
to events which no quill could relate so well as his own, and which, if impartially and sensibly
written, must advance him in the estimation of society, and convince the world that with the
mastery of the great secret in his power, he was not more capable of appreciating the characters
of the age than familiar with the lights and shadows of his own.

The reader will, no doubt, anticipate that the name of Bernard Blackmantle is an assumed quaint
cognomen, and perhaps be not less suspicious of the author's right and title to the honorary
distinction annexed: ~14~~ let him beware how he indulges in such chimeras, before he has fully
entered into the spirit of the volume before him, lest, on perusal, conviction should compel
him to retract the ungracious thought. To be plain, he is not desirous of any higher honorary
distinction than the good opinion of his readers. And now, sons and daughters of Fashion! ye
cameleon race of giddy elves, who flutter on the margin of the whirlpool, or float upon the
surface of the silvery stream, and, hurried forwards by the impetus of the current, leave yourselves
but little time for reflection, one glance will convince you that you are addressed by an old
acquaintance, and, heretofore, constant attendant upon all the gay varieties of life; of this
be assured, that, although retired from the fascinating scene, where gay Delight her portal
open throws to Folly's throng, he is no surly misanthrope, or gloomy seceder, whose jaundiced
mind, or clouded imagination, is a prey to disappointment, envy, or to care. In retracing the
brighter moments of life, the festive scenes of past times, the never to be forgotten pleasures
of his halcyon days, when youth, and health, and fortune, blest his lot, he has no tongue for
scandal--no pen for malice--no revenge to gratify, but is only desirous of attempting a true
portraiture of men and manners, in the higher and more polished scenes of life. If, in the
journey through these hitherto unexplored regions of fancy, ought should cross his path that
might give pain to worthy bosoms, he would sooner turn aside than be compelled to embody the
uncandid thought.

     "Unknowing and unknown, the hardy Muse
     "Boldly defies all mean and partial views;
     "With honest freedom plays the critic's part,
     "And praises, as she censures, from the heart."

And now, having said nearly as much as I think prudent of myself, and considerably more than
my ~17~~ bookseller usually allows by way of prefatory matter, I shall conclude this chapter
by informing the reader of some facts, with which I ought to have commenced it, namely--For
my parents, it must suffice that my father was a man of talent, my mother accomplished and
esteemed, and, what is more to their honour, they were affectionate and kind: peace to their
manes! I was very early in life bereft of both; educated at one of the public schools, I was,
in due time, sent to matriculate at Oxford, where, reader, I propose to commence my Eccentric Tour.

A SHANDEAN SCENE,

BETWEEN LADY MARY OLDSTYLE AND HORATIO HEARTLY.

"I know him well," said Horatio, with a half-suppressed sigh, as he finished the introductory
chapter to the first volume of the English Spy, or Colloquial Sketches of Men and Manners.
"He is no misanthrope," said my aunt, taking off her spectacles to wipe away the pearly drop
which meek-eyed pity gave to the recollection of scenes long passed. Horatio paused--the book
dropped instinctively upon his knee, as his raised eye involuntarily caught the benign aspect
of virtue and intelligence, softened by the crystal gems of feeling. "I wish I knew where he
lived," said my aunt. "I'll find him out," said Horatio;-"Do," said my aunt, "and tell him
an old friend of his father's, on whom fortune has deigned to smile in the winter of her days,
would feign extend to him as much of worldly happiness as can be derived from the enjoyment
of worldly treasure." ~18~~ By that sort of magical attraction which imperceptibly links together
the souls of kindred spirits, Horatio's chair had made an angular movement, of at least six
degrees, in a direction nearer to his venerable relation: no lover ever pressed with more fervency
of affection the yielding hand of his soul's deity, than did the grateful nephew, at this moment,
clasp within his eager grasp the aged palm of bounteous charity. "I wish he may accept your
kind offer," said Horatio. "And why should he not?" said my aunt, with a half inclination of
extricating her hand, and a penetrating glance of doubt, directed full in the face of the speaker:
"I know not," said Horatio, (hesitating, as if fearful of giving offence), "but,"-"But what?"
said my aunt;-"But I fear his natural love of independence, and eccentricity of mind, will
admit of no constraint, which his high sense of honor will anticipate must be partially the
case whenever he submits himself to accept the favors of even such generous hearts as yours."
"He would feel no such thing," said my aunt. "He could not resist the impression," said Horatio;
"your liberality would, I know, be calculated to dispossess him of the painful sensation; but
if the inherent pride of the man could be subdued, or calmed into acquiescence, by breathing
the enchanting air of friendship, the weight of gratitude, the secret monitor of fine-wrought
minds, would overpower his tongue, and leave him, in his own estimation, a pauper of the poorest
class." "Then I'll adopt another mode," said my aunt; "and though I hate the affectation of
secret charities, because I think the donor of a generous action is well entitled to his reward,
both here and hereafter,--I'll hand out some way, anonymously or otherwise, to indulge my humour
of serving him." "You are an angel!" said Horatio, with his eyes fixed on the ground--(the
spirit of the angel of benevolence,--quoth Reason, whispering in his ear, would have been ~19~~
a better metaphor,--certainly inhabits the aged bosom of your father's sister). Horatio's upraised
eye rested on the wrinkled front of his antique relative, just as the corrective thought gleamed
in visionary brightness o'er his brain; the poetic inspiration of the moment fled like the
passing meteor, but the feeling which excited it remained engrafted on his memory for ever.
"How shall we find him out, my dear Horatio?" said my aunt, her whole countenance animated
with delight at the last flattering ejaculation of her nephew-"where shall we seek him?--I'll
order the carriage directly." The glow of pleasure and anticipatory gratification, which at
this moment beamed in the countenance of the old lady, brought back the circling current of
health to the cheeks of age, and, with the blush of honest feeling, dispelled the stains of
time; the furrowed streaks of care vanished from her front, and left her whole frame proportionably
invigorated.

If the mere contemplation of a generous action can thus inspire the young, and give new life
to age, what a load of misery and deformity might not the sons and daughters of nature divest
themselves of, by following the inherent dictates of benevolence! Reflection, whenever he deigned
to penetrate the pericranium of my cousin Horatio, took entire possession of the citadel, and
left him not even the smallest loophole for the observation of any passing event. He was just
fixed in one of these abstracted reveries of the mind, traversing over the halcyon scenes of
his collegiate days, and re-associating himself with his early friend, the author of the eccentric
volume then in his hand, when the above monition sprung from his heart, like the crystal stream
that sparkles in the air, when first it bursts through the mineral bondage of the womb of nature.

"You are right," said my aunt. Horatio started with surprise, almost unconscious of her presence,
or ~20~~ what he had said to deserve her approbation. "True happiness," she continued, "is
the offspring of generosity and virtue, and never inhabits a bosom where worldly interest and
selfish principles are allowed to predominate. There are many who possess all the requisites
for the enjoyment of true happiness, who, from the prejudices of education, or the mistaken
pride of ancestry, have never experienced the celestial rapture: they have never been amalgamated
with society, are strangers to poverty themselves, and cannot comprehend its operation upon
others; born and moving in a sphere where the chilling blasts of indigence never penetrate,
or the clouds of adversity appal, they have no conception of the more delightful gratification
which springs from the source of all earthly happiness, the pleasure and ability of administering
to the wants and comforts of our fellow creatures."

"Yours is the true philosophy of nature, aunt," said Horatio, "where principle and practice
may be seen, arm in arm, like the twin sisters, Charity and Virtue,--a pair of antique curiosities
much sought after, but rarely found amid the assemblage of virtu in the collections of your
modern people of fashion."

"I'll alter my will to-morrow morning," thought my aunt; "this boy deserves to be as rich in
acres as he already is in benevolence: he shall have the Leicestershire estate added to what
I have already bequeathed him, by way of codicil."

"You would be delighted with my friend Bernard, aunt," said Horatio, "that is, when he is in
good spirits; but you must not judge of him by the common standard of estimation: if, on the
first introduction, he should happen to be in one of those lively humours when his whole countenance
is lighted up with the brilliancy of genius, you would be enraptured by the sallies of his
wit, and the solidity of his reasoning; but if, on the contrary, he should unfortunately ~21~~
be in one of those abstracted moods when all terrestrial objects are equally indifferent, you
will, I fear, form no very favourable opinion of his merit. He is an eccentric in every respect,
and must not be judged of by the acquaintance of an hour. We were boys together at Eton, and
the associations of youth ripened with maturity into the most sincere friendly attachment,
which was materially assisted by the similarity of our dispositions and pursuits, during our
residence at college. Your kind notice of my poor friend, aunt, has revived the fondest recollections
of my life--the joyous scenes of infancy, when the young heart, free from the trammels of the
world, and buoyant as the bird of spring, wings along the flowery path of pleasure, plucking
at will the sweets of nature, and decking his infant brow with wreaths of fresh gathered wild
flowers." Horatio paused, not for want of subject, but a train of recollections overpowered
his memory, producing an unspeakable sensation, which for a moment choked his utterance.

"There is a blank in this work, which you shall fill up," said my aunt; "you must perform the
office of an impartial historian for your friend, and before we proceed farther with this volume,
give me the history of your school-boy days."

~22~~

SCHOOL-BOY REMINISCENCES.

     ON EARLY FRIENDSHIP.

     In many a strain of grief and joy
     My youthful spirit sung to thee;
     But I am now no more a boy,
     And there's a gulf 'twixt thee and me.
     Time on my brow has set his seal;
     I start to find myself a man,
     And know that I no more shall feel
     As only boyhood's spirit can.

ETONIAN.

There is an imperceptible but powerfully connecting link in our early associations and school-boy
friendships, which is very difficult to describe, but exceedingly grateful to reflect on; particularly
when the retrospective affords a view of early attachments ripened into perfection with maturity,
and cementing firmly with increasing years. Youth is the period of frankness and of zeal, when
the young heart, buoyant with hope and cheering prospects, fills with joy, and expands in all
the brightness of fancy's variety. The ambition, lures, and conflicting interests of the world,
have as yet made no inroad upon the mind; the bosom is a stranger to misery, the tongue to
deceit, the eye glows with all the luxuriance of pleasure, and the whole countenance presents
an animated picture of health and intelligence illumined with delight. The playfulness or incaution
of youth may demand correction, or produce momentary pain; but the tears of ~23~~ infancy fall
like the summer dew upon the verdant slope, which the first gleam of the returning sun kisses
away, and leaves the face of nature tinged with a blush of exquisite brilliancy, but with no
trace of the sparkling moisture which lately veiled its beauty. This is the glittering period
of life, when the gay perspective of the future seems clothed in every attractive hue, and
the objects of this world assume a grace divine: then it is that happiness, borne on the wings
of innocence and light-hearted mirth, attends our every step, and seems to wait obedient to
our will.

What a painful reverse may not the retrospective view afford! how unlike is the finished picture
to the inspiring sketch. The one breathing the soft air of nature, and sparkling in brilliant
tints of variegated hues, serene, clear, and transparent, like the magic pencilling of the
heavenly Claude, shedding ambrosial sweets around. The reverse indistinct, and overpowered
with gloomy shadows, a mixture of the terrific and the marvellous, like the stormy and convulsive
scenes of the mighty genius of Salvator Rosa, with here and there a flash of wildest eccentricity,
that only serves to render more visible the murky deformity of the whole.

Horatio had just finished his introductory rhapsody, when the door opened, and my aunt's servant
entered with tea and toast: the simmering of the water round the heated tube of the urn, tingling
in the ears of Heartly, broke the thread of his narration. There was a pause of nearly a minute,
while John was busy in arranging the equipage. "You should have waited till I had rung, John,"
said my aunt. "Please your ladyship," said John, "you directed me always to bring tea in at
six precisely, without waiting for orders." My aunt looked puzzled: "You are right, John, I
did; and (addressing Horatio) the fault of the interruption must therefore rest with me." Horatio
bowed; the compliment was too flattering to be ~24~~ misunderstood. "Draw the curtains, John,"
said my aunt, "and make up the fire: we can help ourselves to what we want--you need not wait;
and do not interrupt us again until you are rung for." "This is very mysterious," thought John,
as he closed to the drawing-room door; and he related what he thought to my lady's maid, when
he returned to the servants' hall. "You are, no conjurer, John," said Mrs. Margaret, with an
oblique inclination of the head, half amorous and half conceited--"the old lady's will has
been signed and sealed these three years; I was present when it was made--ay, and I signed
it too, and what's more, I knows all its contents; there are some people in the world (viewing
herself in an opposite looking-glass) who may be very differently circumstanced some day or
other." John's heart had long felt a sort of fluttering inclination to unburthen itself, by
linking destinies with the merry Mrs. Margaret; the prospect of a handsome legacy, or perhaps
an annuity, gave an additional spur to John's affectionate feelings, and that night he resolved
to put the question. All this Mrs. Margaret had anticipated, and as she was now on the verge
of forty, she very prudently thought there was no time to lose. "They are a pair of oddities,"
continued the waiting-maid; "I have sometimes surprised them both crying, as if their hearts
would break, over a new book: I suppose they have got something very interesting, as my lady
calls it and Mr. Horatio is sermonizing as usual."--Mrs Margaret was not far wrong in her conjecture,
for when my aunt and Horatio were again alone, she rallied him on the serious complexion of
his style.

~25~~

CHARACTER OF BERNARD BLACKMANTLE.

BY HORATIO HEARTLY.

You shall have it from his own pen, said Horatio. In my portfolio, I have preserved certain
scraps of Bernard's that will best speak his character; prose and poetry, descriptive and colloquial,
Hudibrastic and pastoral, trifles in every costume of literary fancy, according with the peculiar
humour of the author at the time of their inditing, from these you shall judge my eccentric
friend better than by any commendation of mine. I shall merely preface these early offerings
of his genius with a simple narrative of our school-boy intimacy.

I had been about three months at Eton, and had grown somewhat familiar with the characters
of my associates, and the peculiarities of their phraseology and pursuits, when our dame's
party was increased by the arrival of Bernard Blackmantle. It is usual with the sons of old
Etona, on the arrival of a fresh subject, to play off a number of school-boy witticisms and
practical jokes, which though they may produce a little mortification in the first instance,
tend in no small degree to display the qualifications of mind possessed by their new associate,
and give him a familiarity with his companions and their customs, which otherwise would take
more time, and subject the stranger to much greater inconvenience. Bernard underwent all the
initiatory school ceremonies and ~26~~ humiliations with great coolness, but not without some
display of that personal courage and true nobleness of mind, which advances the new comer in
the estimation of his school-fellows. First impressions are almost always indelible: there
was a frankness and sincerity in his manner, and an archness and vivacity in his countenance
and conversation, that imperceptibly attached me to the young stranger. We were soon the most
inseparable cons,{1} the depositors of each other's youthful secrets, and the mutual participators
in every passing sport and pleasure.

Naturally cheerful, Bernard became highly popular with our miniature world; there was however
one subject which, whenever it was incautiously started by his companions, always excited a
flood of tears, and for a time spread a gloomy abstraction over his mind. Bernard had from
his very infancy been launched into the ocean of life without a knowledge of his admiral{2}
but not without experiencing all that a mother's fondness could supply: when others recapitulated
the enjoyments of their paternal home, and painted with all the glow of youthful ardour the
anticipated pleasures of the holidays, the tear would trickle down his crimsoned cheek; and
quickly stealing away to some sequestered spot, his throbbing bosom was relieved by many a
flood of woe. That some protecting spirit watched over his actions, and directed his course,
he was well assured, but as yet he had never been able to comprehend the mystery with which
he was surrounded. His questions on this point to his mother it was evident gave her pain,
and were always met by some evasive answer. He had been early taught to keep his own secret,
but the prying curiosity of an Eton school-boy was not easily satisfied, and too often rendered
the task one of great pain and difficulty. On these occasions I would seek

     1 Friends.

     2 The Eton phrase for father.

~27~~ him out, and as the subject was one of too tender a nature for the tongue of friendship
to dwell upon, endeavour to divert his thoughts by engaging him in some enlivening sport. His
amiable manners and generous heart had endeared him to all, and in a short time his delicate
feelings were respected, and the slightest allusion to ambiguity of birth cautiously avoided
by all his associates, who, whatever might be their suspicions, thought his brilliant qualifications
more than compensated for any want of ancestral distinction.

The following portrait of my friend is from the pen of our elegant con, Horace Eglantine.

     A PORTRAIT.

     A heart fill'd with friendship and love,
     A brain free from passion's excess,
     A mind a mean action above,
     A hand to relieve keen distress.
     Poverty smiled on his birth,
     And gave what all riches exceeds,
     Wit, honesty, wisdom, and worth;
     A soul to effect noble needs.
     Legitimates bow at his shrine;
     Unfetter'd he sprung into life;
     When vigour with love doth combine
     To free nature from priestcraft and strife.
     No ancient escutcheon he claim'd,
     Crimson'd with rapine and blood;
     He titles and baubles disdain'd,
     Yet his pedigree traced from the flood.
     Ennobled by all that is bright
     In the wreath of terrestrial fame,
     Genius her pure ray of light
     Spreads a halo to circle his name.

The main-spring of all his actions was a social disposition, which embraced a most comprehensive
view ~28~~ of the duties of good fellowship. He was equally popular with all parties, by never
declaring for any particular one: with the cricketers he was accounted a hard swipe{3} an active
field{4} and a stout bowler;{5} in a water party he was a stroke{6} of the ten oar; at foot-ball,
in the playing fields, or a leap across Chalvey ditch, he was not thought small beer{7} of;
and he has been known to have bagged three sparrows after a toodle{8} of three miles. His equals
loved him for his social qualities, and courted his acquaintance as the sine qua non of society;
and the younger members of the school looked up to him for protection and assistance. If power
was abused by the upper boys, Bernard was appealed to as the mediator between the fag{9} and
his master. His grants of liberties{10} to the commonalty were indiscriminate and profuse,
while his influence was always exerted to obtain the same privileges for his numerous proteges
from the more close aristocrats.{11} He was always to be seen attended by a shoal of dependents
of every form in the school, some to get their lessons construed, and others to further claims
to their respective stations in

     3 A good bat-man.

     4 To run well, or keep a good look out.

     5 Strong and expert.

     6 A first rate waterman.

     7  Not thought meanly of. Sometimes this phrase is used in
     derision, as, he does not think small beer of himself.

     8  A walk.

     9 Any sixth or fifth form boy can fag an Oppidan underling:
     the collegers are exempted from this custom.

     10 The liberties, or college bounds, are marked by stones
     placed in different situations; grants of liberties are
     licences given by the head boys to the juniors to break
     bounds, or rather to except them from the disagreeable
     necessity of shirking, (i. e.) hiding from fear of being
     reported to the masters.

     11 To that interesting original miscellany, the 'Etonian,' I
     am indebted for several valuable hints relative to early
     scenes. The characters are all drawn from observation, with
     here and there a slight deviation, or heightening touch, the
     rather to disguise and free them from aught of personal
     offence, than any intentional departure from truth and
     nature.

~29~~ the next cricket match or water expedition. The duck and green pea suppers at Surley
Hall would have lost half their relish without the enlivening smiles and smart repartees of
Bernard Blackmantle. The preparations for the glorious fourth of June were always submitted
to his superior skill and direction. His fiat could decide the claims of the rival boats, in
their choice of jackets, hats, and favors; and the judicious arrangement of the fire-works
was another proof of his taste. Let it not, however, be thought that his other avocations so
entirely monopolized him as to preclude a due attention to study. Had it been so, his success
with the [Greek phrase] would never have been so complete: his desire to be able to confer
obligations on his schoolfellows induced Bernard to husband carefully every hour which he spent
at home; a decent scholarship, and much general knowledge, was the reward of this plan. The
treasure-house of his memory was well stored, and his reputation as an orator gave promise
of future excellence. His classical attainments, if not florid, were liberal, and free from
pedantry. His proficiency in English literature was universally acknowledged, and his love
of the poets amounted to enthusiasm. He was formed for all the bustle of variegated life, and
his conversation was crystallized with the sparkling attractions of wit and humour. Subject
to the weakness to which genius is ever liable, he was both eccentric and wayward, but he had
the good sense to guard his failing from general observation; and although he often shot his
arrows anonymously, he never dipt them in the gall of prejudice or ill-nature. I have dwelt
upon his character with pleasure, because there are very few who know him intimately. With
a happy versatility of talents, he is neither lonesome in his solitude, nor over joyous in
a crowd. For his literary attainments, they must be judged of by their fruits. I cannot better
conclude my attempt ~30~~ to describe his qualifications than by offering his first essay to
your notice, a school-boy tribute to friendship.

     TRUE FRIENDSHIP.

     'Infido scurræ distabit amicus.'
     Horace.

     How very seldom do we find
     A relish in the human mind
     For friendship pure and real;
     How few its approbation seek,
     How oft we count its censures weak,
     Disguising what we feel.
     Adulation lives to please,
     Truth dies the victim of disease,
     Forgotten by the world:
     The flattery of the fool delights
     The wise, rebuke our pride affrights,
     And virtue's banner's furl'd.
     Wherefore do we censure fate,
     When she withholds the perfect state
     Of friendship from our grasp,
     If we ourselves have not the power,
     The mind to enjoy the blessed hour,
     The fleeting treasure clasp?

This (I have reason to believe his first poetical essay) was presented me on my birthday, when
we had been about two years together at Eton: a short time afterwards I surprised him one morning
writing in his bedroom; my curiosity was not a little excited by the celerity with which I
observed he endeavoured to conceal his papers. "I must see what you are about, Bernard," said
I. "Treason, Horatio," replied the young author. "Would you wish to be implicated, or become
a confederate? If so, take the oath of secrecy, and read." Judge of my surprise, when, on casting
my eye over his lucubrations, I perceived he had been sketching the portraits of the group,
with ~31~~ whom we were in daily association at our dame's. As I perceive by a glance at his
work that most of his early friends have parts assigned them in his colloquial scenes, I consider
the preservation of this trifle important, as it will furnish a key to the characters.

~32~~

ETON SKETCHES OF CHARACTER.

     '----I'll paint for grown up people's knowledge,
     The manners, customs, and affairs of college.'

PORTRAITS IN MY DAME'S DINING-ROOM.

At the head of the large table on the right hand you will perceive the Honourable Lilyman Lionise,
the second son of a nobleman, whose ancient patrimony has been nearly dissipated between his
evening parties at the club-houses, in French hazard, or Rouge et noir, and his morning speculations
with his betting book at Tattersall's, Newmarket, or the Fives-court; whose industry in getting
into debt is only exceeded by his indifference about getting out; whose acquired property (during
his minority) and personals have long since been knocked down by the hammer of the auctioneer,
under direction of the sheriff, to pay off some gambling bond in preference to his honest creditor;
yet who still flourishes a fashionable gem of the first water, and condescends to lend the
lustre of ~33~~ his name, when he has nothing else to lend, that he may secure the advantage
of a real loan in return. His patrimonial acres and heirlooms remain indeed untouched, because
the court of chancery have deemed it necessary to appoint a receiver to secure their faithful
transmission to the next heir.

The son has imbibed a smattering of all the bad qualities of his sire, without possessing one
ray of the brilliant qualifications for which he is distinguished. Proud without property,
and sarcastic without being witty, ill temper he mistakes for superior carriage, and haughtiness
for dignity: his study is his toilet, and his mind, like his face, is a vacuity neither sensible,
intelligent, nor agreeable. He has few associates, for few will accept him for a companion.
With his superiors in rank, his precedent honorary distinction yields him no consideration;
with his equals, it places him upon too familiar a footing; while with his inferiors, it renders
him tyrannical and unbearable. His mornings, between school hours, are spent in frequent change
of dress, and his afternoons in a lounge à la Bond-street, annoying the modest females and
tradesmen's daughters of Eton; his evenings (after absence{1} is called) at home, in solitary
dissipation over his box of liqueurs, or in making others uncomfortable by his rudeness and
overbearing dictation. He is disliked by the dame, detested by the servants, and shunned by
his schoolfellows, and yet he is our captain, a Sextile, a Roue, and above all, an honourable.

Tom Echo. A little to the left of the Exquisite, you may perceive Tom's merry countenance shedding
good-humour around him. He is the only one who can

     1 Absence is called several times in the course of the
     day, to prevent the boys straying away to any great distance
     from the college, and at night to secure them in quarters at
     the dames' houses: if a boy neglects to answer to his name,
     or is too late for the call, inquiry is immediately made at
     his dame's, and a very satisfactory apology must be offered
     to prevent punishment.

manage the Sextile with effect: Tom is always ready with a tart reply to his sarcasm, or a
cut at his consequence. Tom is the eldest son of one of the most respectable whig families
in the kingdom, whose ancestors have frequently refused a peerage, from an inherent democratical
but constitutional jealousy of the crown. Independence and Tom were nursery friends, and his
generous, noble-hearted conduct renders him an universal favorite with the school. Then, after
holidays, Tom always returns with such a rich collection of fox-hunting stories and sporting
anecdotes, and gives sock{2} so graciously, that he is the very life of dame ------'s party.
There is to be sure one drawback to Tom's good qualities, but it is the natural attendant upon
a high flow of animal spirits: if any mischief is on foot, Tom is certain to be concerned,
and ten to one but he is the chief contriver: to be seen in his company, either a short time
previous to, or quickly afterwards, although perfectly innocent, is sure to create a suspicion
of guilt with the masters, which not unusually involves his companions in trouble, and sometimes
in unmerited punishment. Tom's philosophy is to live well, study little, drink hard, and laugh
immoderately. He is not deficient in sense, but he wants application and excitement: he has
been taught from infancy to feel himself perfectly independent of the world, and at home every
where: nature has implanted in his bosom the characteristic benevolence of his ancestry, and
he stands among us a being whom every one loves and admires, without any very distinguishing
trait of learning, wit, or superior qualification, to command the respect he excites. If any
one tells a good story or makes a laughable pun, Tom retails it for a week, and all the school
have the advantage of hearing and enjoying it. Any proposition for a boat party, cricketing,
or a toodle into Windsor, or along the banks of the Thames

     2 Good cheer; any nicety, as pastry, &c.

~35~~ on a sporting excursion, is sure to meet a willing response from him. He is second to
none in a charitable subscription for a poor Cad, or the widow of a drowned Bargee; his heart
ever reverberates the echo of pleasure, and his tongue only falters to the echo of deceit.

Horace Eglantine is placed just opposite to Lily man Lionise, a calm-looking head, with blue
eyes and brown hair, which flows in ringlets of curls over his shoulders. Horace is the son
of a city banker, by the second daughter of an English earl, a young gentleman of considerable
expectations, and very amusing qualifications. Horace is a strange composition of all the good-natured
whimsicalities of human nature, happily blended together without any very conspicuous counteracting
foible. Facetious, lively, and poetical, the cream of every thing that is agreeable, society
cannot be dull if Horace lends his presence. His imitations of Anacreon, and the soft bard
of Erin, have on many occasions puzzled the cognoscenti of Eton. Like Moore too, he both composes
and performs his own songs. The following little specimen of his powers will record one of
those pleasant impositions with which he sometimes enlivens a winter's evening:

     TO ELIZA.

     Oh think not the smile and the glow of delight,
     With youth's rosy hue, shall for ever be seen:

     Frosty age will o'ercloud, with his mantle of night,
     The brightest and fairest of nature's gay scene.

     Or think while you trip, like some aerial sprite,
     To pleasure's soft notes on the dew-spangled mead,

     That the rose of thy cheek, or thine eyes' starry light,
     Shall sink into earth, and thy spirit be freed.

     Then round the gay circle we'll frolic awhile,
     And the light of young love shall the fleet hour bless

     While the pure rays of friendship our eve-tide beguile,
     Above fortune's frowns and the chills of distress

~36~~ The most provoking punster and poet that ever turned the serious and sentimental into
broad humour. Every quaint remark affords a pun or an epigram, and every serious sentence gives
birth to some merry couplet. Such is the facility with which he strings together puns and rhyme,
that in the course of half an hour he has been known to wager, and win it--that he made a couplet
and a pun on every one present, to the number of fifty. Nothing annoys the exquisite Sextile
so much as this tormenting talent of Horace; he is always shirking him, and yet continually
falling in his way. For some time, while Horace was in the fourth form, these little jeu-d'esprits
were circulated privately, and smuggled up in half suppressed laughs; but being now high on
the fifth, Horace is no longer in fear of fagging, and therefore gives free license to his
tongue in many a witty jest, which "sets the table in a roar."

Dick Gradus. In a snug corner, at a side table, observe that shrewd-looking little fellow poring
over his book; his features seem represented by acute angles, and his head, which appears too
heavy for his body, represents all the thoughtfulness of age, like an ancient fragment of Phidias
or Praxiteles placed upon new shoulders by some modern bust carver. Dick is the son of an eminent
solicitor in a borough town, who has raised himself into wealth and consequence by a strict
attention to the principles of interest: sharp practice, heavy mortgages, loans on annuity,
and post obits, have strengthened his list of possessions till his influence is extended over
half the county. The proprietor of the borough, a good humoured sporting extravagant, has been
compelled to yield his influence in St. Stephen's to old Gradus, that he may preserve his character
at Newmarket, and continue his pack and fox-hunting festivities at home. The representation
of the place is now disposed of to the best bidder, but the ambition of the father has long
since determined upon sending his son (when of age) ~37~~ into parliament--a promising candidate
for the "loaves and fishes." Richard Gradus, M.P.--you may almost perceive the senatorial honor
stamped upon the brow of the young aspirant; he has been early initiated into the value of
time and money; his lessons of thrift have been practically illustrated by watching the operations
of the law in his father's office; his application to learning is not the result of an innate
love of literature, or the ambition of excelling his compeers, but a cold, stiff, and formal
desire to collect together materials for the storehouse of his memory, that will enable him
to pursue his interested views and future operations on society with every prospect of success.
Genius has no participation in his studies: his knowledge of Greek and Latin is grammatical
and pedantic; he reads Livy, Tacitus, Sallust, Cæsar, Xenophon, Thucydides, in their original
language; boasts of his learning with a haughty mien and scornful look of self-importance,
and thinks this school-boy exercise of memory, this mechanism of the mind, is to determine
the line between genius and stupidity; and has never taken into consideration that the mere
linguist, destitute of native powers, with his absurd parade of scholastic knowledge, is a
solitary barren plant, when opposed to the higher occupations of the mind, to the flights of
fancy, the daring combinations of genius, and the sublime pictures of imagination. Dick is
an isolated being, a book-worm, who never embarks in any party of pleasure, from the fear of
expense; he has no talents for general conversation, while his ridiculous affectation of learning
subjects him to a constant and annoying fire from the batteries of Etonian wit. Still, however,
Dick perseveres in his course, till his blanched cheeks and cadaverous aspect, from close study
and want of proper exercise, proclaim the loss of health, and the probable establishment of
some pulmonary affection that may, before he scarcely reaches maturity, blight the ambitious
hopes of his father, and consign ~38~~ the son "to that bourne from whence no traveller returns."

Horatio Heartly. At the lower end of the room, observe a serene-looking head displaying all
the quiet character of a youthful portrait by the divine Raphael, joined to the inspiring sensibility
which flashes from the almost breathing countenance and penetrating brilliancy of eye, that
distinguishes a Guido. That is my bosom friend, my more than brother, my mentor and my guide.
Horatio is an orphan, the son of a general officer, whose crimsoned stream of life was dried
up by an eastern sun, while he was yet a lisping infant. His mother, lovely, young, and rich
in conjugal attachment, fell a blighted corse in early widowhood, and left Horatio, an unprotected
bud of virtuous love, to the fostering care of Lady Mary Oldstyle, a widowed sister of the
general's, not less rich in worldly wealth than in true benevolence of heart, and the celestial
glow of pure affection. Heartly is a happy combination of all the good-humoured particles of
human nature blended together, with sense, feeling, and judgment. Learned without affectation,
and liberal without being profuse, he has found out the secret of attaching all the school
to himself, without exciting any sensation of envy, or supplanting prior friendships. Horatio
is among the alumni of Eton the king of good fellows: there is not a boy in the school, colleger,
or oppidan, but what would fight a long hour to defend him from insult; no--nor a sparkling
eye among the enchanting daughters of old Etona that does not twinkle with pleasure at the
elegant congée, and amiable attentions, which he always pays at the shrine of female accomplishment.
Generous to a fault, his purse--which the bounty of his aunt keeps well supplied--is a public
bank, pro bono publico. His parties to sock are always distinguished by an excellent selection,
good taste, and superior style. In all the varied school sports and pastimes, his manly form
and vigorous constitution gain him a superior ~39~~ station among his compeers, which his cheerful
disposition enables him to turn to general advantage. Nor is he in less estimation with the
masters, who are loud in their praises of his assiduity and proficiency in school pursuits.
Horatio is not exactly a genius: there is nothing of that wild eccentricity of thought and
action which betokens the vivid flights of imagination, or the meteoric brightness of inspiration;
his actions are distinguished by coolness, intrepidity, and good sense. He does not pretend
to second sight, or a knowledge of futurity; but on the present and the past there are few
who can reason with more cogency of remark, or with more classic elegance of diction: with
such a concentration of qualities, it is not wonderful that his influence extends through every
gradation of the juvenile band. His particular attachments are not numerous; but those who
have experienced the sincerity of his private friendship must always remain his debtor--from
deficiency of expression; among the most obliged of whom is--the author.

Bob Transit. Bob has no fixed situation; therefore it would be in vain to attempt to say where
he may be found: sometimes he is placed next to Bernard, and between him and Heartly, with
whom he generally associates; at other times he takes his situation at the side table, or fills
up a spare corner opposite to Dick Gradus, or the exquisite, either of whom he annoys, during
dinner, by sketching their portraits in caricature upon the cover of his Latin Grammar, with
their mouths crammed full of victuals, or in the act of swallowing hot pudding: nor does the
dame sometimes escape him; the whole table have frequently been convulsed with laughter at
Bob's comic representation of Miss --------'s devout phiz, as exhibited during the preparatory
ceremony of a dinner grace: the soul of whim, and source of fun and frolic, Bob is no mean
auxiliary to a merry party, or the exhilarating pleasure of a broad grin. ~40~~ Bob's admiral
is an R.A. of very high repute; who, having surmounted all the difficulties of obscure origin
and limited education, by the brilliancy of his talents, has determined to give his son the
advantage of early instruction and liberal information, as a prelude to his advancement in
the arts. Talent is not often hereditary (or at least in succession); but the facility of Transit's
pencil is astonishing: with the rapidity of a Fuseli he sketches the human figure in all its
various attitudes, and produces in his hasty drawings so much force of effect and truth of
character, that the subject can never be mistaken. His humour is irresistible, and is strongly
characterized by all the eccentricity and wit of a Gilhay, turning the most trifling incidents
into laughable burlesque. Between him and Horace Eglantine there exists a sort of copartnership
in the sister arts of poetry and painting: Horace rhymes, and Bob illustrates; and very few
in the school of any note have at one time or other escaped this combination of epigram and
caricature. Bob has an eye to real life, and is formed for all the bustle of the varied scene.
Facetious, witty, and quaint, with all the singularity of genius in his composition, these
juvenile jeux d'esprits of his pencil may be regarded as the rays of promise, which streak
with golden tints the blushing horizon of the morn of youth.

As Bob is not over studious, or attached to the Latin and Greek languages, he generally manages
to get any difficult lesson construed by an agreement with some more learned and assiduous
associate; the quid pro quo on these occasions being always punctually paid on his part by
a humorous sketch of the head master calling first absence, taken from a snug, oblique view
in the school-yard, or a burlesque on some of the fellows or inhabitants of Eton. In this way
Bob contrives to pass school muster, although these specimens of talent have, on more than
one occasion, brought him to the block. It must however ~41~~ be admitted, that in all these
flights of fancy his pencil is never disgraced by any malignancy of motive, or the slightest
exhibition of personal spleen. Good humour is his motto; pleasure his pursuit: and if he should
not prove a Porson or an Elmsley, he gives every promise of being equally eminent with a Bunbury,
Gillray, or a Rowlandson.

Varied groups are disposed around the room, and make up the back ground of my picture. Many
of these are yet too young to particularize, and others have nothing sufficiently characteristic
to deserve it; some who have not yet committed their first fault, and many who are continually
in error; others who pursue the straight beaten track to scholastic knowledge, and trudge on
like learned dromedaries. Two or three there are who follow in no sphere-eccentric stars, shooting
from space to space; some few mischievous wags, who delight in a good joke, and will run the
risk of punishment at any time to enjoy it; with here and there a little twinkling gem, like
twilight planets, just emerging from the misty veil of nature.

These form my dame's dinner party. Reader, do not judge them harshly from this hasty sketch:
take into your consideration their youth and inexperience; and if they do not improve upon
acquaintance, and increase in estimation with their years, the fault must in justice rather
be attributed to the author than to any deficiency in their respective merits.

          ETON DAMES*; AN ODE, NEITHER AMATORY,
          ILL-NATURED, NOR PATHETIC.

          Let Oxford beaux, to am'rous belles,
          Love's warm epistles write;
          Or Cambridge youths, in classic dells,
          Invoke the shadowy night.

     * The above jeu-d'esprit made its appearance on one of
     those joyous occasions, when the sons of old Etona return
     from Oxford and Cambridge, filled with filial regard for
     early scenes and school-boy friendships, to commemorate a
     college election. It was, at the time, purposely attributed
     to some of these waggish visitors, a sort of privileged
     race, who never fail of indulging in numerous good-humoured
     freaks with the inhabitants of Eton, to show off to the
     rising generation the pleasantries, whims, and improvements
     of a college life. The subject is one of great delicacy, but
     it will, I hope, be admitted by the merry dames themselves,
     that my friend Bernard has in this, as in every other
     instance, endeavoured to preserve the strongest traits of
     truth and character, without indulging in offensive satire,
     or departing from propriety and decorum.--Horatio Heartly.
~44~~

          Let Cockney poets boast their flames,
          Of ' Vicked Cupit' patter:
          Be mine a verse on Eton Dames--
          A more substantial matter.
          I care not if the Graces three
          Have here withheld perfection:
          Brown, black, or fair, the same to me,--
          E'en age is no objection.
          A pleasing squint, or but one eye,
          Will do as well as any;
          A mouth between a laugh and cry,
          Or wrinkled, as my granny.
          A hobbling gait, or a wooden leg,
          Or locks of silvery gray;
          Or name her Madge, or Poll, or Peg,
          She still shall have my lay.
          Perfection centres in the mind,
          The gen'rous must acknowledge:
          Then, Muse, be candid, just, and kind,
          To Dames of Eton College.*

     * The independent students, commonly called Oppidans, are
     very numerous: they are boarded at private houses in the
     environs of the college; the presiding masters and
     mistresses of which have from time immemorial enjoyed the
     title of Domine and Dame: the average number of
     Oppidans is from three hundred to three hundred and fifty.

FIVE PRINCIPAL ORDERS OF ETON

~45~~

     PROEM.

     Said Truth to the Muse, as they wander'd along,
     "Prithee, Muse, spur your Pegasus into a song;
     Let the subject be lively,--how like you the Belles?"
     Said the Muse, "he's no sportsman that kisses and tells.

     But in females delighting, suppose we stop here,
     And do you bid the Dames of old Eton appear;
     In your mirror their merits, with candour, survey,
     And I'll sing their worth in my very best Lay."
     No sooner 'twas said, than agreed:--it was done,
     Wing'd Mercury summon'd them every one.

     MISS A***LO.

     First, deck'd in the height of the fashion, a belle,
     An angel, ere Chronos had tipt her with snow,
     Advanced to the goddess, and said, "you may tell,
     That in Eton, there's no better table, you know;"
     And by Truth 'twas admitted, "her generous board
     Is rich, in whatever the seasons afford."

     THE MISS t*****S.

     Of ancients, a pair next presented themselves,
     When in popp'd some waggish Oxonian elves,
     Who spoke of times past, of short commons, and cheese,
     And told tales, which did much the old ladies displease.
     "Good morning,"  said Truth, as the dames pass'd him by:
     Young stomachs, if stinted, are sure to outcry.

     MRS. R******U.

     On her Domine leaning came dame B******u,
     The oldest in college, deck'd in rich furbelow.

~46~~

     She curtsied around to the Oppidan band,
     But not one said a word, and but few gave a hand.
     Truth whisper'd the Muse,, who, as sly, shook her head,
     Saying,  "where little's told,  'tis soon mended, it's
     said."

     MRS. G******E.

     When S******e appear'd, what a shout rent the air!
     The spruce widow affords the most excellent cheer;
     For comfort in quarters there's nothing can beat her,
     So up rose the lads with a welcome to greet her:
     The muse with true gallantry led her to place,
     And Truth said good humour was writ in her face.

     MRS. D****N.
     With a face (once divine), and a figure still smart,
     And a grace that defies even Time's fatal dart,
     Dame D****n advanced, made her curtsy, and smiled:
     Truth welcomed the fair, the grave, witty, and wild;
     All, all gave their votes, and some said they knew
     That her numbers by no measure equall'd her due.

     MISS S******S.

     "By my hopes," said the Muse, "here's a rare jolly pair,
     A right merry frontispiece, comely and fair,
     To good living and quarters."   "You're right," nodded Truth.
     A welcome approval was mark'd in each youth.
     And 'twas no little praise among numbers like theirs,
     To meet a unanimous welcome up stairs.

     Miss L******d.
     Lavater, though sometimes in error, you'll find
     May be here quoted safely; the face tells the mind.
     Good humour and happiness live in her eye.
     Her motto's contentment you'll easily spy.
     five principal orders of eton

~47~~

     A chair for Miss L******d Truth placed near the Muse;
     For beauty to rhyme can fresh spirit infuse.

     MRS. V******Y.

     V******y, in weeds led and angel along,
     Accomplish'd and pretty, who blush'd at the throng.
     The old dame seem'd to say, and i'faith she might well,
     "Sons of Eton, when saw you a handsomer belle?"
     If any intended the widow to sneer,
     Miss A------won their favor, and banish'd the jeer.

     Three sisters, famed for various parts,
     One clerks, and one makes savoury tarts;
     While t'other, bless her dinner face,
     Cuts up the viands with a grace,
     Advanced, and met a cheerful greeting
     From all who glorify good eating.

     MRS. W. H****R.

     With a smile, à la confident, came Mrs. H,
     Whose Domine writing to Eton's sons teach:
     In college, the handiest man you can find
     For improvements of all sorts, both building and mind:
     He seem'd on good terms with himself, but the Muse
     Said, "the Dame claim'd a welcome which none could refuse."

     DAME A****S.

     Dame A****s, respected by all, made her way
     Through the throng that assembled at Eton that day.
     Old Chronos had wrinkled her forehead, 'tis true;
     Yet her countenance beam'd in a rich, mellow hue
     Of good humour and worth; 'twas a pleasure to mark
     How the dame was applauded by each Eton spark.

~48~~

     MISS b*******K.

     Long and loud were the plaudits the lady to cheer,
     Whom the doctor had treated somewhat cavalier:
     "Too young," said the ancient, "the proverb is trite;
     Age and wisdom, good doctor, not always unite."
     "For prudence and worth," said Truth, "I'll be bound
     She may challenge the Dames of old Eton around."

     A crowd pressing forward, the day growing late,
     Truth whisper'd the Muse, "we had better retreat;
     For though 'mong the dames we are free from disasters,
     I know not how well we may fare with the masters.
     There's Carter, and Yonge, Knapp, Green, and Dupuis,*
     All coming this way with their ladies, I see.
     Our visit, you know, was alone to the belles;
     The masters may sing, if they please, of themselves.
     Truth mounted a cloud, and the Poet his nag,
     And these whims sent next day by the post-office bag.

     * Lower, and assistant masters, who keep boarding-houses.
     Until lately this practice was not permitted; but it must be
     confessed that it is a salutary arrangement, as it not only
     tends to keep the youth in a better state of subjection, but
     in many instances is calculated to increase their progress
     in study, by enabling them to receive private instruction.

          Now from the schools pour forth a num'rous train,
          Light-hearted, buoyant as the summer breeze,
          To deck thy bosom, Eton: now each face
          Anticipation brightens with delight,
          While many a fancied bliss floats gaily
          O'er the ardent mind, chaste as the Nautilus,
          Spreading her pearly spangles to the sun:
          The joyous welcome of parental love,
          The heart-inspiring kiss a sister yields,
          A brother's greeting, and the cheering smiles
          Of relatives and friends, and aged domestics,
          Time-honor'd for their probity and zeal,
          Whose silvery locks recall to mem'ry's view
          Some playful scene of earliest childhood,
          When frolic, mirth, and gambol led the way,
          Ere reason gave sobriety of thought.-
          Now bear the busy Cads the new-lopt bough
          Of beech-tree to the dormitories,
          While active Collegers the foliage raise
          Against the chamber walls. A classic grove
          Springs as by magic art, cool and refreshing,
          A luxury by nature's self supply'd,
          Delicious shelter from the dog-star's ray.
          In thought profound the studious Sextile mark
          In learned converse with some ancient sage,
          Whose aid he seeks to meet the dread Provost.
          The captain fearless seeks the ancient stand,
          Where old Etona's sons, beneath time's altar-piece,*
          Have immemorial welcomed Granta's chief.
          In College-hall the merry cook prepares
          The choicest viands for the master's banquet:
          A graceful, healthy throng surround the board,
          And temp'rance, love, and harmony, prevail.
          Now busy dames are in high bustle caught,
          Preparing for each oppidan's departure;
          And servants, like wing'd Mercury, must fly
          O'er Windsor bridge to hail the London coach.
          Adieus on ev'ry side, farewell, farewell,
          Rings in each passing ear; yet, nor regret
          Nor sorrow marks the face, but all elate
          With cheerful tongue and brighten'd eye, unite
          To hail with joy Etona's holiday.
          Now comes the trial of who stands for King's,
          Examinations difficult and deep
          The Provost and his pozers to o'ercome.
          To this succeeds the grand aquatic gala,
          A spectacle of most imposing import,
          Where, robed in every costume of the world,
          The gay youth direct the glittering prow;
          A fleet of well-trimm'd barks upon the bosom
          Of old father Thames, glide on to pleasure's note:

~51~~

          The expert victors are received with cheers,
          And the dark canopy of night's illumin'd
          With a grand display of brilliant fires.

     * Shortly after the arrival of the Provost, he proceeds
     through the cloisters, where he is met by the captain, or
     head boy of the school, who speaks a long Latin oration
     before him, standing under the clock.

To an old Etonian the last week in July brings with it recollections of delight that time and
circumstances can never wholly efface. If, beneath the broad umbrage of the refreshing grove,
he seeks relief from care and sultry heat, memory recalls to his imagination the scenes of
his boyhood, the ever pleasing recollections of infancy, when he reclined upon the flowery
bosom of old father Thames, or sought amusement in the healthful exercise of bathing, or calmly
listened to the murmuring ripple of the waters, or joined the merry group in gently plying
of the splashing oar. With what eager delight are these reminiscences of youth dwelt on! With
what mingled sensations of hope, fear, and regret, do we revert to the happy period of life
when, like the favorite flower of the month, our minds and actions rivalled the lily in her
purity! Who, that has ever tasted of the inspiring delight which springs from associations
of scholastic friendships and amusements, but would eagerly quit the bustle of the great world
to indulge in the enjoyment of the pure and unalloyed felicity which is yet to be found among
the alumni of Eton?--Election Saturday--the very sound reverberates the echo of pleasure, and
in a moment places me (in imagination) in the centre of the long chambers of Eton, walking
beneath the grateful foliage of the beech-tree, with which those dormitories are always decorated
previous to election Saturday. I can almost fancy that I hear the rattle of the carriage wheels,
and see the four horses smoking beneath the lodge-window of Eton college, that conveys the
provost of King's to attend examination and election. Then too I can figure the classic band
who wait to ~52~~ receive him; the dignified little doctor leading the way, followed by the
steady, calm-visaged lower master, Carter; then comes benedict Yonge, and after him a space
intervenes, where one should have been of rare qualities, but he is absent; then follows good-humoured
Heath, and Knapp, who loves the rattle of a coach, and pleasant, clever Hawtry, and careful
Okes, and that shrewd sapper, Green, followed by medium Dupuis, and the intelligent Chapman:
these form his classic escort to the cloisters. But who shall paint the captain's envied feelings,
the proud triumph of his assiduity and skill? To him the honourable office of public orator
is assigned; with modest reverence he speaks the Latin oration, standing, as is the custom
from time immemorial, under the clock. There too he receives the bright reward, the approbation
of the Provost of King's college, and the procession moves forward to the College-hall to partake
of the generous banquet. On Sunday the Provost of King's remains a guest with his compeer of
Eton. But busy Monday arrives, and hundreds of Oxonians and Cantabs pour in to witness the
speeches of the boys, and pay a tribute of respect to their former masters. The exhibition
this day takes place in the upper school, and consists of sixth form oppidans and collegers.
How well can I remember the animated picture Eton presents on such occasions: shoals of juvenile
oppidans, who are not yet of an age to have been elected of any particular school-party, marching
forth from their dames' houses, linked arm in arm, parading down the street with an air and
gaiety that implies some newly acquired consequence, or liberty of conduct. Every where a holiday
face presents itself, and good humour lisps upon every tongue. Here may be seen a youthful
group, all anxiety and bustle, trudging after some well-known Cad, who creeps along towards
the Windsor coach-office, loaded with portmanteaus, carpet bags, and ~53~~ boxes, like a Norfolk
caravan at Christmas time; while the youthful proprietors of the bulky stock, all anxiety and
desire to reach their relatives and friends, are hurrying him on, and do not fail to spur the
elephant with many a cutting gibe, at his slow progression. Within doors the dames are all
bustle, collecting, arranging, and packing up the wardrobes of their respective boarders; servants
flying from the hall to the attic, and endangering their necks in their passage down again,
from anxiety to meet the breathless impetuosity of their parting guests. Books of all classes,
huddled into a heap, may be seen in the corner of each bedroom, making sock for the mice till
the return of their purveyors with lots of plum-cake and savoury tarts. The more mature are
now busily engaged in settling the fashion of their costume for the approaching gala; in receiving
a visit from an elder brother, or a young Oxonian, formerly of Eton, who has arrived post to
take sock with him, and enjoy the approaching festivities. Here a venerable domestic, whose
silver locks are the truest emblem of his trusty services, arrives with the favorite pony to
convey home the infant heir and hope of some noble house.

Now is Garraway as lively as my lord mayor's steward at a Guildhall feast-day; and the active
note of preparation for the good things of this world rings through the oaken chambers of the
Christopher. Not even the sanctum sanctorum is forgotten, where, in times long past, I have
quaffed my jug of Bulstrode, "in cool grot," removed from the scorching heat of a July day,
and enjoyed many a good joke, secure from the prying observations of the domine. One, and one
only, class of persons wear a sorrowful face upon these joyous occasions, and these are the
confectioners and fruitresses of Eton; with them, election Saturday and busy Monday are like
the herald to a Jewish black fast, or a stock exchange holiday: they may as well sport their
oaks (to use an Oxford phrase) till the ~54~~ return of the oppidans to school, for they seldom
see the colour of a customer's cash till the, to them, happy period arrives.

On the succeeding days the examinations of the collegers proceed regularly; then follows the
election of new candidates, and the severe trial of those who stand for King's. These scholastic
arrangements generally conclude on the Wednesday night, or Thursday morning, and then Pleasure
mounts her variegated car, and drives wherever Fancy may direct. Formerly I find seven or eight
scholars went to King's;{*} but in consequence of the fellows of Eton holding pluralities,
the means are impoverished, and the number consequently reduced to two or three: this is the
more to be regretted, on account of the very severe and irrecoverable disappointment the scholars
experience in losing their election, merely on account of age; as at nineteen they are superannuated,
and cannot afterwards receive any essential benefit from the college.

Not the blue waves of the Engia, covered with the gay feluccas of the Greeks, and spreading
their glittering streamers in the sun; nor the more lovely

     * This noble seminary of learning was founded by Hen. VI. in
     1440. Its establishment was then on a limited scale; it has
     long since been enlarged, and now consists of a provost,
     vice-provost, six fellows, two schoolmasters, with their
     assistants, seventy scholars, seven clerks, and ten
     choristers, besides various inferior officers and servants.
     The annual election of scholars to King's College,
     Cambridge, takes place about the end of July, or the
     beginning of August, when the twelve senior scholars are put
     on the roll to succeed, but they are not removed till
     vacancies occur; the average number of which is about nine
     in two years. At nineteen years of age the scholars are
     superannuated. Eton sends, also, two scholars to Merton
     College, Oxford, where they are denominated post-masters,
     and has likewise a few exhibitions of twenty-one guineas
     each for its superannuated scholars. The scholars elected to
     King's succeed to fellowships at three years' standing.

~55~~ Adriatic, swelling her translucent bosom to the gentle motion of the gondolier, and bearing
on her surface the splendid cars and magnificent pageant of the Doge of Venice, marrying her
waters to the sea, can to an English bosom yield half the delight the grand aquatic Eton gala
affords; where, decked in every costume fancy can devise, may be seen the noble youth of Britain,
her rising statesmen, warriors, and judges, the future guardians of her liberties, wealth,
and commerce, all vying with each other in loyal devotion to celebrate the sovereign's natal
day.{*} Then doth thy silvery bosom, father Thames, present a spectacle truly delightful; a
transparent mirror, studded with gems and stars and splendid pageantry, reflecting a thousand
brilliant variegated hues; while, upon thy flowery margin, the loveliest daughters of the land
press the green velvet of luxuriant nature, outrivalling in charms of colour, form, and beauty,
the rose, the lily, and the graceful pine. There too may be seen the accomplished and the gay
youth labouring for pleasure at the healthful oar, while with experienced skill the expert
helmsman directs through all thy fragrant windings the trim bark to victory. The race determined,
the bright star of eve, outrivalled by the pyrotechnic artiste, hides his diminished head.
Now sallies forth the gay Oxonian from the Christopher, ripe with the rare Falernian of mine
host, to have his frolic gambol with old friends. Pale Luna, through her misty veil, smiles
at these harmless pleasantries, and lends the merry group her aid to smuggle signs, alter names,
and play off a thousand fantastic vagaries; while the Eton Townsman, robed in

     * The grand aquatic gala, which terminates the week's festi-
     vities at Eton, and concludes the water excursions for the
     season, was originally fixed in honour of his late majesty's
     birthday, and would have been altered to the period of his
     successor's, but the time would not accord, the twelfth day
     of August being vacation.

~50~~ peaceful slumber, dreams not of the change his house has undergone, and wakes to find
a double transformation; his Angel vanished, or exchanged for the rude semblance of an Oxford
Bear, with a cognomen thereto appended, as foreign to his family nomenclature "as he to Hercules."
In the morning the dames are wailing the loss of their polished knockers; and the barber-surgeon
mourns the absence of his obtrusive pole. The optician's glasses have been removed to the door
of some prying domine; and the large tin cocked hat has been seized by some midnight giant,
who has also claimed old Crispin's three-leagued boot. The golden fish has leaped into the
Thames. The landlord of the Lamb bleats loudly for his fleece. The grocer cares not a fig for
the loss of his sugar-loaves, but laughs, and takes it as a currant joke. Old Duplicate is
resolved to have his balls restored with interest; and the lady mother of the black doll is
quite pale in the face with sorrow for the loss of her child. Mine host of the vine looks as
sour as his own grapes, before they were fresh gilded; and spruce master Pigtail, the tobacconist,
complains that his large roll of real Virginia has been chopped into short cut. But these are
by far the least tormenting jokes. That good-humoured Cad, Jem Miller, finds the honorary distinction
of private tutor added to his name. Dame ----s, an irreproachable spinster of forty, discovers
that of Mr. Probe, man-midwife, appended to her own. Mr. Primefit, the Eton Stultz, is changed
into Botch, the cobbler. Diodorus Drowsy, D.D., of Windsor, is re-christened Diggory Drenchall,
common brewer; and the amiable Mrs. Margaret Sweet, the Eton pastry-cook and confectioner,
finds her name united in bands of brass with Mr. Benjamin Bittertart, the baker. The celebrated
Christopher Caustic, Esq., surgeon, has the mortification to find his Esculapian dormitory
decorated with the sign-board of Mr. Slaughtercalf, a German butcher; while his handsome brass
pestle ~57~~ and mortar, with the gilt Galen's head annexed, have been waggishly transferred
to the house of some Eton Dickey Gossip, barber and dentist. Mr. Index, the bookseller, changes
names with old Frank Finis, the sexton. The elegant door plate of Miss Caroline Cypher, spinster,
is placed on the right side of Nicodemus

Number, B.A., and fellow of Eton, with this note annexed: "New rule of Addition, according
to Cocker." Old Amen, the parish clerk, is united to Miss Bridget Silence, the pew opener;
and Theophilus White, M.D. changes place with Mr. Sable, the undertaker. But we shall become
too grave if we proceed deeper with this subject. There is no end to the whimsical alterations
and ludicrous changes that take place upon these occasions, when scarce a sign or door plate
in Eton escapes some pantomimic transformation.*

     * Representations to the masters or authorities are scarcely
     ever necessary to redress these whimsical grievances, as the
     injured parties are always remunerated. The next day the
     spoils and trophies are arranged in due form in a certain
     snug sanctum sanctorum, the cellar of a favorite inn, well
     known by the name of the Oppidan's Museum; for a view of
     which see the sketch made on the spot by my friend Bob
     Transit. Here the merry wags are to be found in council,
     holding a court of claims, to which all the tradesmen who
     have suffered any loss are successively summoned; and after
     pointing out from among the motley collection the article
     they claim, and the price it originally cost, they are
     handsomely remunerated, or the sign replaced. The good
     people of Eton generally choose the former, as it not only
     enable them to sport a new sign, but to put a little profit
     upon the cost price of the old one. The trophies thus
     acquired are then packed up in hampers, and despatched to
     Oxford, where they are on similar occasions not unfrequently
     displayed, or hung up, in lieu of some well-known sign, such
     as the Mitre, &c. which has been removed during the night.

~58~~

The following jeu-d'esprits issued upon the interference of the authorities at the conclusion
of the last Election. The "dance of thirty sovereigns" is an allusion to the fine imposed,
which was given to the poor.

          A Ladder Dance.
          A moving golden Fish.
          The Fall of Grapes, during a heavy storm.
          The Cock'd Hat Combat.
          A March to the Workhouse.
          Bird-cage Duett, by Messrs. C***** and B****.
          A public Breakfast, with a dance by thirty sovereigns.
          Glee--"When shall we three meet again."
          The Barber's Hornpipe, by the learned D****.
          The Turk's Head Revel.
          Saint Christopher's March.
          The Committee in Danger.

BY BERNARD BLACKMANTLE, AND ROBERT TRANSIT

          Bending beneath a weight of time,
          And crippled as his Montem ode,
          We found the humble son of rhyme

          Busy beside the public road.
          Nor laurel'd wreath or harp had he,

          To deck his brow or touch the note
          That wakes the soul to sympathy.

          His face was piteous as his coat,
          'Twas motley strange; e'en nature's self,

          In wild, eccentric, playful mood,
          Had, for her pastime, form'd the elf,

          A being scarcely understood--
          Half idiot, harmless; yet a gleam

          Of sense, and whim, and shrewdness, broke
          The current of his wildest stream;

          And pity sigh'd as madness spoke.

~60~~

          Lavater, Lawrence, Camper, here

          Philosophy new light had caught:
          Judged by your doctrines 'twould appear

          The facial line denoted thought.{1}
          But say, what system e'er shall trace

          By scalp or visage mental worth?
          The ideot's form, the maniac's face,

          Are shared alike by all on earth.
          "Comparative Anatomy--"

          If, Stockhore, 'twas to thee apply'd,
          'Twould set the doubting Gallist free,

          And Spurzheim's idle tales deride.
          But hence with visionary scheme,

          Though Bell, or Abernethy, write;
          Be Herbert Stockhore all my theme,

          The laureate's praises I indite;
          He erst who sung in Montem's praise,

          And, Thespis like, from out his cart
          Recited his extempore lays,

          On Eton's sons, in costume smart,
          Who told of captains bold and grand,

          Lieutenants, marshals, seeking salt;
          Of colonels, majors, cap in hand,

          Who bade e'en majesty to halt;

     1 It is hardly possible to conceive a more intelligent,
     venerable looking head, than poor Herbert Stockhore
     presents; a fine capacious forehead, rising like a
     promontory of knowledge, from a bold outline of countenance,
     every feature decisive, breathing serenity and
     thoughtfulness, with here and there a few straggling locks
     of silvery gray, which, like the time-discoloured moss upon
     some ancient battlements, are the true emblems of antiquity:
     the eye alone is generally dull and sunken in the visage,
     but during his temporary gleams of sanity, or fancied
     flights of poetical inspiration, it is unusually bright and
     animated. According to professor Camper, I should think the
     facial line would make an angle of eighty or ninety degrees;
     and, judging upon the principles laid down by Lavater, poor
     Herbert might pass for a Solon. Of his bumps, or
     phrenological protuberances, I did not take particular
     notice, but I have no doubt they would be found, upon
     examination, equally illustrative of such visionary systems.

~61~~

          Told how the ensign nobly waved

          The colours on the famous hill;
          And names from dull oblivion saved,

          Who ne'er the niche of fame can fill:
          Who, like to Campbell, lends his name.{2}

          To many a whim he ne'er did write;
          When witty scholars, to their shame,

          'Gainst masters hurl a satire trite.{3}
          But fare thee well, Ad Montem's bard,{4}

          Farewell, my mem'ry's early friend

     2 The author of "the Pleasures of Hope," and the editor of
     the New Monthly; but-"Tardè, quo credita lodunt,
     credimus."

     3  It has long been the custom at Eton, particularly during
     Montem, to give Herbert Stockhore the credit of many a
     satirical whim, which he, poor fellow, could as easily have
     penned as to have written a Greek ode. These squibs are
     sometimes very humorous, and are purposely written in
     doggrel verse to escape detection by the masters, who are
     not unfrequently the principal porsons alluded to.

     4 The following laughable production was sold by poor
     Herbert Stockhore during the last Montem: we hardly think we
     need apologise for introducing this specimen of his muse:
     any account of Eton characteristics must have been held
     deficient without it.

THE MONTEM ODE. May 20, 1823.

          Muses attend! the British channel flock o'er,
          Call'd by your most obedient servant, Stockhore.
          Aid me, O, aid me, while I touch the string;
          Montem and Captain Barnard's praise I sing;
          Captain Barnard, the youth so noble and bright,
          That none dare dispute his worthy right
          To that gay laurel which his brother wore,
          In times that 1 remember long before.
          What are Olympic honours compared to thine,
          0 Captain, when Majesty does combine
          With heroes, their wives, sons and daughters great,
          To visit this extremely splendid fête.
          Enough! I feel a sudden inspiration fill
          My bowels; just as if the tolling bell
          Had sent forth sounds a floating all along the air
          Just such Parnassian sounds, though deaf, I'm sure I hear.

~62~~

          May misery never press thee hard,
          Ne'er may disease thy steps attend:
          Listen, ye gents; rude Boreas hold your tongue!
          The pomp advances, and my lyre is strung.
          First comes Marshal Thackeray,
          Dress'd out in crack array;
          Ar'nt he a whacker, eh?
          His way he picks,
          Follow'd by six,
          Like a hen by her chicks:

          Enough! he's gone.
          As this martial Marshall
          Is to music partial,
          The bandsmen march all

          His heels upon.
          He who hits the balls such thumps,
          King of cricket-bats and stumps,--
          Barnard comes;
          Sound the drums--

          Silence! he's past.
          Eight fair pages,
          Of different ages,

          Follow fast.
          Next comes the Serjeant-Major,
          Who, like an old stager,

          Without need of bridle
          Walks steadily; the same
          Dolphin Major by name,

          Major Dolphin by title.
          Next struts Serjeant Brown,
          Very gay you must own;
          With gallant Mr. Hughes,
          In well-polish'd shoes;
          Then Sampson, who tramps on,
          Strong as his namesake.
          Then comes Webb, who don't dread
          To die for his fame's sake.
          Next shall I sing
          Of Serjeant King,
          And Horace Walpole,
          Holding a tall pole,
          Who follows King and Antrobus,
          Though he's "pulchrior ambobus."

~63~~

          Be all thy wants by those supply'd,
          Whom charity ne'er fail'd to move{5}:

     5 This eccentric creature has for many years subsisted
     entirely upon the bounty of the Etonians, and the
     inhabitants of Windsor and Eton, who never fail to
     administer to his wants, and liberally supply him with many
     little comforts in return for his harmless pleasantries.

          Then to Salthill speed on,
          While the troops they lead on;
          Both Mr. Beadon,
          And Serjeant Mitford,
          Who's ready to fi't for't.
          Then Mr. Carter follows a'ter;
          And Denman,
          Worth ten men,
          Like a Knight of the Garter;
          And Cumberbatch,
          Without a match,
          Tell me, who can be smarter?
          Then Colonel Hand,
          Monstrous grand,
          Closes the band.
          Pass on, you nameless crowd,
          Pass on. The Ensign proud
          Comes near. Let all that can see
          Behold the Ensign Dansey;
          See with what elegance he
          Waves the flag--to please the fancy.
          Pass on, gay crowd; Le Mann, the big,
          Bright with gold as a guinea-pig,
          The big, the stout, the fierce Le Mann,
          Walks like a valiant gentleman.
          But take care of your pockets,
          Here's Salt-bearer Platt,
          With a bag in his hand,
          And a plume in his hat;
          A handsomer youth, sure small-clothes ne'er put on,
          Though very near rival'd by elegant Sutton.

          Thus then has pass'd this grand procession,
          In most magnificent progression.
          Farewell you gay and happy throng!

~64~~

          Etona's motto, crest, and pride,
          Is feeling, courage, friendship, love.

          Farewell my Muse! farewell my song'
          Farewell Salthill! farewell brave Captain;
          As ever uniform was clapt in;
          Since Fortune's kind, pray do not mock her;
          Your humble poet,

          HERBERT STOCKHORE.

Herbert Stockhore was originally a bricklayer, and now resides at a little house which he has
built for himself, and called Mount Pleasant, in a lane leading from Windsor to the Meadows.
He has a wife and daughter, honest, industrious people, who reside with him, and are by no
means displeased at the visit of a stranger to their eccentric relative. Some idea of the old
man's amusing qualifications may be conceived from the following description, to which I have
added the account he gives of his heraldic bearings. It must be recollected that the Etonians
encourage these whims in the poor old man, and never lose an opportunity of impressing Stockhore
with a belief in the magnificent powers of his genius.--After we had heard him recite several
of his unconnected extempore rhapsodies, we were to be indulged with the Montem ode; this the
old man insisted should be spoken in his gala dress; nor could all the entreaties of his wife
and daughter, joined to those of myself and friend (fearful of appearing obtrusive), dissuade
old Herbert from his design. He appeared quite frantic with joy when the dame brought forth
from an upper apartment these insignia of his laureateship; the careful manner in which they
were folded up and kept clean gave us to understand that the good woman herself set some store
by them. The wife and daughter now proceeded to robe the laureate bard: the first garment which
was placed over his shoulders, and came below his waist, was a species of tunic made out of
patches of bed-furniture, trimmed in the most fantastic manner with fragments of worsted fringe
of all colors. Over this he wore an old military jacket, of a very ancient date in respect
to costume, and trimmed like the robe with fringe of every variety. A pair of loose trowsers
of the same materials as the tunic were also displayed; but the fashion of the poet's head-dress
exceeded all the rest for whimsicality: round an old soldier's cap a sheet of pasteboard was
bent to a spiral form, rising about fourteen inches, and covered with some pieces of chintz
bed-furniture of a very rich pattern; in five separate circles, was disposed as many different
colors of fringes; some worsted twisted, to resemble feathers, was suspended from the side;
and the whole had the most grotesque appearance, more nearly resembling the papal crown in
similitude than any thing else I can conceive. ~65~~

     Poor harmless soul, thy merry stave
     Shall live when nobler poets bend;

The poor old fellow seemed elated to a degree. We had sent for a little ale for him, but were
informed he was not accustomed to drink much of any strong liquor. After a glass, Herbert recited
with great gesture and action, but in a very imperfect manner, the Montem ode; and then for
a few minutes seemed quite exhausted. During this exhibition my friend Transit was engaged
in sketching his portrait, a circumstance that appeared to give great pleasure to the wife
and daughter, who earnestly requested, if it was published, to be favored with a copy. We had
now become quite familiar with the old man, and went with him to view his Montem car and Arabian
pony, as he called them, in a stable adjoining the house. On our return, my friend Transit
observed that his cart required painting, and should be decorated with some appropriate emblem.
Herbert appeared to understand the idea, and immediately proceeded to give us a history of
his heraldic bearings, or, as he said, what his coat of arms should be, which, he assured us,
the gentlemen of Eton had subscribed for, and were having prepared at the Heralds' College
in London, on purpose for him to display next Montem. "My grand-father," said Stockhore, "was
a hatter, therefore I am entitled to the beaver in the first quarter of my shield. My grandfather
by my mother's side was a farmer, therefore I should have the wheat-sheaf on the other part.
My own father was a pipe-maker, and that gives me a noble ornament, the cross pipes and glasses,
the emblems of good fellowship. Now my wife's father was a tailor, and that yields me a goose:
those are the bearings of the four quarters of my shield. Now, sir, I am a poet--ay, the poet
laureate of Montem; and that gives me a right to the winged horse for my crest. There's a coat
of arms for you," said poor Herbert; "why, it would beat every thing but the king's; ay, and
his too, if it wasn't for the lion and crown." The attention we paid to this whim pleased the
poor creature mightily; he was all animation and delight. But the day was fast declining: so,
after making the poor people a trifling present for the trouble we had given them, my friend
Transit and myself took our farewell of poor Herbert, not, I confess, without regret; for I
think the reader will perceive by this brief sketch thero is great character and amusement
in his harmless whims. I have been thus particular in my description of him, because he is
always at Montem time an object of much curiosity; and to every Etonian of the last thirty
years, his peculiarities must have frequently afforded amusement. ~66~~

          And when Atropos to the grave
          Thy silvery locks of gray shall send,

          Etona's sons shall sing thy fame,
          Ad Montem still thy verse resound,

          Still live an ever cherish'd name,
          As long as salt{2} and sock abound.

     2 Salt is the name given to the money collected at Montem.

THE DOUBTFUL POINT.

"Why should I not read it," thought Horatio, hesitating, with the MSS. of Life in Eton half
opened in his hand. A little Chesterfield deity, called Prudence, whispered--"Caution." "Well,
Miss Hypocrisy," quoth the Student, "what serious offence shall I commit against propriety
or morality by reading a whimsical jeu-d'esprit, penned to explain the peculiar lingual localisms
of Eton, and display her chief characteristic follies." "It is slang," said Prudence. "Granted,"
said Horatio: "but he who undertakes to depict real life must not expect to make a pleasing
or a correct picture, without the due proportions of light and shade. 'Vice to be hated needs
but to be seen.' Playful satire may do more towards correcting the evil than all the dull lessons
of sober-tongued morality can ever hope to effect." Candour, who just then happened to make
a passing call, was appointed referee; and, without hesitation, agreed decidedly with Horatio.{1}

     1 Life at Eton will not, I hope, be construed into any
     intention of the author's to follow in the track of any
     previous publication: his object is faithfully to delineate
     character, not to encourage vulgar phraseology, or
     promulgate immoral sentiment. A
     dozen or more of these well known characters may be seen
     loitering in front of the college every morning, making
     their arrangement with their pupils, the Oppidans, for a
     day's sport, to commence the moment school is over. They
     formerly used to occupy a seat on the low wall, in front of
     the college, but the present headmaster has recently
     interfered to expel this assemblage; they still, however,
     carry on their destructive intercourse with youth, by
     walking about, and watching their opportunity for
     communication. The merits of these worthies are here
     faithfully related, and will be instantly recognised by any
     Etonian of the last thirty years.

     2 PROS. Eton college is governed by a provost, vice-
     provost, six fellows, a steward of the courts, head-master,
     and a lower, or second master; to which is added, nine
     assistant masters, and five extra ones, appointed to teach
     French, writing, drawing, fencing, and dancing. The school
     has materially increased in numbers within the last few
     years, and now contains nearly five hundred scholars, sons
     of noblemen and gentlemen, and may be truly said to be the
     chief nursery for the culture of the flower of the British
     nation.--See note to page 54.

     3 DAMES. The appellation given to the females who keep
     boarding-houses in Eton. These houses, although out of the
     college walls, are subject to the surveillance of the head
     master and fellows, to whom all references and complaints
     are made.

~69~~
          Come list', while I with con,{4} and sock{5}
          And chaunt,{6} both ripe and mellow,
          Tell how you knowledge stores unlock,

          To make a clever fellow.{7}
          For Greek and Latin, classic stuff,

          Let tug muttons{8}compose it;
          Give oppidans{9} but blunt{10 }enough,

          What odds to them who knows it.
          A dapper dog,{11} a right coolfish,{12}

          Who snugly dines on pewter;
          Quaffs Bulstrode ale,{13} and takes his dish.

     4  CON. A con is a companion, or friend; as, "you are
     cons of late."

     5  SOCK signifies eating or drinking niceties; as, pastry,
     jellies, Bishop, &c.

     6  CHAUNT, a good song; to versify.

     7  This is not intended as an imputation on the learned
     fellows of Eton college, but must be taken in the vulgar
     acceptation--you're a clever fellow, &c.

     8  TUG MUTTONS, or Tugs, collegers, foundation scholars; an
     appellation given to them by the oppidans, in derision of
     the custom which has prevailed from the earliest period, and
     is still continued, of living entirely on roast mutton; from
     January to December no other description of meat is ever
     served up at College table in the hall. There are seventy of
     these young gentlemen on the foundation who, if they miss
     their election when they are nineteen, lose all the benefits
     of a fellowship.

     9  OPPIDANS, independent scholars not on the foundation.

     10 BLUNT, London slang (for money), in use here.

     11 A DAPPER DOC, any thing smart, or pleasing, as, "Ay,
     that's dapper," or, "you are a dapper dog."

     12 A RIGHT COOL FISH, one who is not particular what he says
     or does.

     13 BULSTRODE ALE, a beverage in great request at the
     Christopher. When the effects were sold at Bulstrode,
     Garraway purchased a small stock of this famous old ale,
     which by some miraculous process he has continued to serve
     out in plentiful quantities ever since. The joke has of late
     been rather against mine host of the Christopher, who,
     however, to do him justice, has an excellent tap, which is
     now called the queen's, from some since purchased at
     Windsor: this is sold in small quarts, at one shilling per
     jug.

~70~~
          In private with his tutor.{14}
          In lieu of ancient learned lore,

          Which might his brain bewilder,
          Rum college slang he patters o'er,

          With cads{15 }who chouse{16} the guilder.
          Who's truly learn'd must read mankind,

          Truth's axiom inculcates:
          The world's a volume to the mind,

          Instructive more than pulpits.{17}
          Come fill the bowl with Bishop up,

          Clods,{18} Fags,{19} and Skugs{20} and Muttons{21};
          When absence{22} calls ye into sup,

          Drink, drink to me, ye gluttons.
          I'll teach ye how to kill dull care,

          Improve your box of knowledge,{23}

     14 Many of the young noblemen and gentlemen at Eton are
     accompanied by private tutors, who live with them to
     expedite their studies; they are generally of the College,
     and recommended by the head master for their superior
     endowments.

     15  CAD, a man of all work, for dirty purposes, yclept
     private tutor. See note 1, page 68.

     16  CHOUSE the GUILDER. Chouse or chousing is generally
     applied to any transaction in which they think they may have
     been cheated or overcharged.

     Guilder is a cant term for gold.

     17  Nothing in the slightest degree unorthodox is meant to
     be inferred from this reasoning, but simply the sentiment
     of this quotation-'The proper study of mankind is man.'

     18  CLODS, as, "you clod," a town boy, or any one not an
     Etonian, no matter how respectable.

     19 FAGS, boys in the lower classes. Every fifth form boy has
     his fag.

     20 SCUG or SKUG, a lower boy in the school, relating to

     sluggish. 21 MUTTONS. See note 8.

     22 ABSENCE. At three-quarters past eight in summer, and
     earlier in winter, several of the masters proceed to the
     different dames' houses, and call absence, when every boy is
     compelled to be instantly in quarters for the night, on pain
     of the most severe punishment.

     23 BOX of KNOWLEDGE, the pericranium.

          With all that's witty, choice, and rare,

          'Fore all the Slugs{24} of college.
          Of private tutors, vulgo Cads,

          A list I mean to tender;
          The qualities of all the lads,

          Their prices to a bender.{25}
          First, Shampo Carter{26} doffs his tile,

          To dive, to fish, or fire;
          There's few can better time beguile,

          And none in sporting higher.

     24 SLUGS of College, an offensive appellation applied to the
     fellows of Eton by the townsmen.

     25 BENDER, a sixpence.

     26 Note from Bernard Blackmantle, M.A. to Shampo Carter and
     Co. P.T.'s:--

     MESSIEURS THE CADS OF ETON, In handing down to posterity
     your multifarious merits and brilliant qualifications, you
     will perceive I have not forgotten the signal services and
     delightful gratifications so often afforded me in the days
     of my youth. Be assured, most assiduous worthies, that I am
     fully sensible of all your merits, and can appreciate justly
     your great usefulness to the rising generation. You are the
     sappers and miners of knowledge, who attack and destroy the
     citadel of sense before it is scarcely defensible. It is no
     fault of yours if the stripling of Eton is not, at eighteen,
     well initiated into all the mysteries of life, excepting
     only the, to him, mysterious volumes of the classics. To do
     justice to all was not within the limits of my work; I have
     therefore selected from among you the most distinguished
     names, and I flatter myself, in so doing, I have omitted
     very few of any note; if, however, any efficient member of
     your brotherhood should have been unintentionally passed by,
     he has only to forward an authenticated copy of his
     biography and peculiar merits to the publisher, to meet with
     insertion in a second edition.

     Bernard Blackmantle.

     Bill Carter is, after all, a very useful fellow, if it was
     only in teaching the young Etonians to swim, which he does,
     by permission of the head master.

     Tile, a hat.

~72~~
          Joe Cannon, or my lord's a gun,{27}
          A regular nine pounder;
          To man a boat, stands number one,

          And ne'er was known to flounder.
          There's Foxey Hall{28} can throw the line
          With any Walton angler;
          To tell his worth would task the Nine,

          Or pose a Cambridge wrangler.
          Next, Pickey Powell{29} at a ball

          Is master of the wicket;
          Can well deliver at a call

          A trite essay on cricket.
          Jem Flowers {30} baits a badger well,

          For a bull hank, or tyke, sir;
          And as an out and out bred swell,{31}

          Was never seen his like.

     27 A GUN--"He's a great gun," a good fellow, a knowing one.
     Joe is a first rate waterman, and by the Etonians styled
     "Admiral of the fleet."

     28 "Not a better fellow than Jack Hall among the Cads," said
     an old Etonian, "or a more expert angler." Barb, Gudgeon,
     Dace, and Chub, seem to bite at his bidding; and if they
     should be a little shy, why Jack knows how to "go to work
     with the net."

     29 Who, that has been at Eton, and enjoyed the manly and
     invigorating exercise of cricket, has not repeatedly heard
     Jem Powell in tones of exultation say, "Only see me 'liver
     thin here ball, my young master?" And, in good truth, Jem
     is right, for very few can excel him in that particular: and
     then (when Jem is Bacchi plenis,) who can withstand his
     quart of sovereigns. On such occasions Jem is seen
     marching up and down before the door of his house, with a
     silver quart tankard filled with gold--the savings of many
     years of industry.

     30 Jem Flowers is an old soldier; and, in marshalling the
     forces for a bull or a badger-bait, displays all the tactics
     of an experienced general officer. Caleb Baldwin would no
     more bear comparison with Jem than a flea does to an
     elephant.

     31 When it is remembered how near Eton is to London, and how
     frequent the communication, it will appear astonishing, but
     highly creditable to the authorities, that so little of the
     current slang of the day is to be met with here.

~73~~

          There's Jolly Jem,{32} who keeps his punt,

          And dogs to raise the siller;
          Of cads, the captain of the hunt,

          A right and tight good miller.
          Next Barney Groves,{33} a learned wight,

          The impounder of cattle,
          Dilates on birth and common right,

          And threats black slugs with battle.
          Big George {34} can teach the use of fives,

          Or pick up a prime terrier;
          Or spar, or keep the game alive,

          With beagle, bull, or harrier.
          Savager{35} keeps a decent nag,

     32 Jem Miller was originally a tailor; but having dropt a
     stitch or two in early life, listed into a sporting
     regiment of Cads some years since; and being a better shot
     at hares and partridges than he was considered at the heavy
     goose, has been promoted to the rank of captain of the
     private tutors. Jem is a true jolly fellow; his house
     exhibits a fine picture of what a sportsman's hall should
     be, decorated with all the emblems of fishing, fowling, and
     hunting, disposed around in great taste.

     33  Barney Groves, the haughward, or impounder of stray
     cattle at Eton, is one of the most singular characters I
     have ever met with. Among the ignorant Barney is looked up
     to as the fountain of local and legal information; and it is
     highly ludicrous to hear him expatiate on his favourite
     theme of "our birthrights and common rights;" tracing the
     first from the creation, and deducing argument in favor of
     his opinions on the second from doomsday book, through all
     the intricate windings of the modern inclosure acts. Barney
     is a great stickler for reform in College, and does not
     hesitate to attack the fellows of Eton (whom he denominates
     black slugs), on holding pluralities, and keeping the good
     things to themselves. As Barney's avocation compels him to
     travel wide, he is never interrupted by water; for in summer
     or winter he readily wades through the deepest places; he is
     consequently a very efficient person in a sporting party.

     34 George Williams, a well-known dog fancier, who also
     teaches the art and science of pugilism.

     35 Savager, a livery-stable keeper, who formerly used to
     keep a good tandem or two for hire, but on the interference
     of the head master, who interdicted such amusements as
     dangerous, they have been put down in Eton.

~74~~

          But's very shy of lending,
          Since she put down her tandem drag,{36}

          For fear of Keates offending.
          But if you want to splash along

          In glory with a ginger,{37}
          Or in a Stanhope come it strong,

          Try Isaac Clegg,{38} of Windsor.
          If o'er old father Thames you'd glide,

          And cut the silvery stream;
          With Hester's{39} eight oars mock the tide,

          He well deserves a theme.
          There's Charley Miller, and George Hall,{40}

          Can beasts and birds restore, sir;
          And though they cannot bark or squall,

          Look livelier than before, sir.
          Handy Jack's {41} a general blade,

          There's none like Garraway, sir;
          Boats, ducks, or dogs, are all his trade,

          He'll fit you to a say, sir.

     36  DR A G, London slang for tilbury, dennet, Stanhope, &c.

     37  A GINGER, a showy, fast horse.

     38  Isaac Clegg is in great repute for his excellent turn
     outs, and prime nags; and, living in Windsor, he is out of
     the jurisdiction of the head master.

     39  Hester's boats are always kept in excellent trim. At
     Eton exercise on the water is much practised, and many of
     the scholars are very expert watermen: they have recently
     taken to boats of an amazing length, forty feet and upwards,
     which, manned with eight oars, move with great celerity.
     Every Saturday evening the scholars are permitted to assume
     fancy dresses; but the practice is now principally confined
     to the steersman; the rest simply adopting sailors' costume,
     except on the fourth of June, or election Saturday, when
     there is always a grand gala, a band of music, and
     fireworks, on the island in the Thames.

     40  Miller and Hall, two famous preservers of birds and
     animals; an art in high repute among the Etonians.

     41  A famous boatman, duck-hunter, dog-fighter; or,
     according to the London phrase--good at everything.

~75~~

          Tom New {42} in manly sports is old,

          A tailor, and a trump, sir;
          And odd Fish Bill,{43} at sight of gold,

          Will steer clear of the bump,"{44} sir.
          A list of worthies, learn'd and great

          In every art and science,
          That noble youths should emulate,

          To set laws at defiance:
          The church, the senate, and the bar,

          By these in ethics grounded,
          Must prove a meteoric star,

          Of brilliancy compounded.
          Ye lights of Eton, rising suns,

          Of all that's great and godly;
          The nation's hope, and dread of duns,

          Let all your acts be motley.
          Learn arts like these, ye oppidan,

          If you'd astonish greatly
          The senate, or the great divan,

          With classics pure, and stately.
          Give Greek and Latin to the wind,

          Bid pedagogues defiance:
          These are the rules to grace the mind

          With the true gems of science.

     42  Tom New, a great cricketer.

     43  Bill Fish, a waterman who attends the youngest boys in
     their excursions.

     44  The BUMP, to run against each other in the race.

~76~~

APOLLO'S VISIT TO ETON.

~76~~ This whimsical production appeared originally in 1819, in an Eton miscellany entitled
the College Magazine; the poetry of which was afterwards selected, and only fifty copies struck
off: these have been carefully suppressed, principally we believe on account of this article,
as it contains nothing that we conceive can be deemed offensive, and has allusions to almost
all the distinguished scholars of that period, besides including the principal contributors
to the Etonian, a recent popular work: we have with some difficulty filled up the blanks with
real names; and, at the suggestion of several old Etonians, incorporated it with the present
work, as a fair criterion of the promising character of the school at this particular period.

The practice of thus distinguishing the rising talents of Eton is somewhat ancient. We have
before us a copy of verses dated 1620, in which Waller, the poet, and other celebrated characters
of his time, are particularised. At a still more recent period, during the mastership of the
celebrated Doctor Barnard, the present earl of Carlisle, whose classical taste is universally
admitted, distinguished himself not less than his compeers, by some very elegant lines: those
on the late Right Hon. C. J. Fox we are induced to extract as a strong proof of the noble earl's
early penetration and foresight.

     "How will my Fox, alone, by strength of parts.
     Shake the loud senate, animate the hearts
     Of fearful statesmen? while around you stand
     Both Peers and Commons listening your command.

~77~~

     While Tully's sense its weight to you affords,
     His nervous sweetness shall adorn your words.
     What praise to Pitt,{1} to Townshend, e'er was due,
     In future times, my Pox, shall wait on you."

At a subsequent period, the leading characters of the school were spiritedly drawn in a periodical
newspaper, called the World, then edited by Major Topham, and the Rev. Mr. East, who is still,
I believe, living, and preaches occasionally at Whitehall. From that publication, now very
scarce, I have selected the following as the most amusing, and relating to distinguished persons.

     1 The great Earl of Chatham.

RECOLLECTIONS OF AN OLD ETONIAN.

The Lords Littleton--father and son, formed two opposite characters in their times. The former
had a distinguished turn for pastoral poetry, and wrote some things at Eton with all the enthusiasm
of early years, and yet with all the judgment of advanced life. The latter showed there, in
some traits of disposition, what was to be expected from him; but he too loved the Muses, and
cultivated them.

He there too displayed the strange contraries of being an ardent admirer of the virtues of
classic times, while he was cheating at chuck and all-fours; and though he affected every species
of irreligion, was, in fact, afraid of his own shadow.

The whole North Family have, in succession, adorned this school with their talents--which in
the different branches were various, but all of mark and vivacity. To the younger part, Dampier
was the tutor; who, having a little disagreement with Frank North on the hundred steps coming
down from the terrace, at Windsor, they adjusted it, by Frank North's rolling his tutor very
quickly down the whole of them. The tutor has since risen to some eminence in the church.

Lord Cholmondeley was early in life a boy of great parts, and they have continued so ever since,
though not lively ones. Earl of Buckingham was a plain good scholar, but ~79~~ would have been
better at any other school, for he was no poet, and verse is here one of the first requisites;
besides, he had an impediment in his speech, which, in the hurry of repeating a lesson before
a number of boys, was always increased. It was inculcated to him by his dame--that he must
look upon himself as the reverse of a woman in every thing, and not hold--that whoever "deliberates
is lost."

Lord Harrington was a boy of much natural spirit. In the great rebellion, under Forster, when
all the boys threw their books into the Thames, and marched to Salt Hill, he was amongst the
foremost. At that place each took an oath, or rather swore, he would be d------d if ever he
returned to school again.

When, therefore, he came to London to the old Lord Harrington's, and sent up his name, his
father would only speak to him at the door, insisting, at the same time, on his immediate return.
"Sir," said the son, "consider I shall be d--d if I do!" "And I" answered the father, "will
be d--d if you don't!"

"Yes, my lord," replied the son, "but you will be d--d together I do or no!"

The Storers. Anthony and Tom, for West Indians, were better scholars than usually fell to the
share of those children of the sun, who were, in general, too gay to be great. The name of
the elder stands to this day at the head of many good exercises; from which succeeding genius
has stolen, and been praised for it.

Tom had an odd capability of running round a room on the edge of the wainscot, a strange power
of holding by the foot: an art which, in lower life, might have been serviceable to him in
the showing it. And Anthony, likewise, amongst better and more brilliant qualifications, had
the reputation of being amongst the best dancers of the age. In a political line, perhaps,
he did not dance attendance to much purpose.

Harry Conway, brother to the present Marquis of ~80~~ Hertford, though younger in point of
learning, was older than his brother, Lord Beauchamp; but he was not so forward as to show
this preeminence: a somewhat of modesty, a consciousness of being younger, always kept him
back from displaying it. In fact, they were perfectly unlike two Irish boys--the Wades, who
followed them, and who, because the younger was taller, used to fight about which was the eldest.

Pepys. A name well known for Barnard's commendation of it, and for his exercises in the Musæ
Etonenses. He was amongst the best poets that Eton ever produced.

Kirkshaw, son to the late doctor, of Leeds, and since fellow of Trinity College. When his father
would have taken him away, he made a singular request that he might stay a year longer, not
wishing to be made a man so early.

Many satiric Latin poems bear his name at Eton, and he continued that turn afterwards at Cambridge.
He was remarkable for a very large head; but it should likewise be added, there was a good
deal in it.

On this head, his father used to hold forth in the country. He was, without a figure, the head
of the school, and was afterwards in the caput at the university.

Wyndham, under Barnard, distinguished himself very early as a scholar, and for a logical acuteness,
which does not often fall to the share of a boy. He was distinguished too both by land and
by water; for while he was amongst the most informed of his time, in school hours, in the playing
fields, on the water, with the celebrated boatman, my guinea piper at cricket, or in rowing,
he was always the foremost. He used to boast, that he should in time be as good a boxer as
his father was, though he used to add, that never could be exactly known, as he could not decently
have a set-to with him.

~81~~ Fawkener, the major, was captain of the school; and in those days was famed for the "suaviter
in modo," and for a turn for gallantry with the Windsor milliners, which he pursued up the
hundred steps, and over the terrace there. As this turn frequently made him overrun the hours
of absence, on his return he was found out, and flogged the next morning; but this abated not
his zeal in the cause of gallantry, as he held it to be, like Ovid, whom he was always reading,
suffering in a fair cause.

Fawkener, Everard, minor, with the same turn for pleasure as his brother, but more open and
ingenuous in his manner, more unreserved in his behaviour, then manifested, what he has since
been, the bon vivant of every society, and was then as since, the admired companion in every party.

Prideaux was remarkable for being the gravest boy of his time, and for having the longest chin.
Had he followed the ancient "Sapientem pascere Barbam," there would in fact have been no end
of it. With this turn, however, his time was not quite thrown away, nor his gravity. In conjunction
with Dampier, Langley, and Serjeant, who were styled the learned Cons, he composed a very long
English poem, in the same metre as the Bath Guide, and of which it was then held a favour to
get a copy. He had so much of advanced life about him, that the masters always looked upon
him as a man; and this serious manner followed him through his pastimes. He was fond of billiards;
but he was so long in making his stroke, that no boy could bear to play with him: when the
game, therefore, went against him, like Fabius-Cunctando restituit rem; and they gave it up
rather than beat him.

Hulse. Amongst the best tennis-players that Eton ever sent up to Windsor, where he always was.
As a poet he distinguished himself greatly, by winning one of the medals given by Sir John
Dalrymple. His ~82~~ exercise on this occasion was the subject of much praise to Doctor Forster,
then master, and of much envy to his contemporaries in the sixth form, who said it was given
to him because he was head boy.

These were his arts; besides which he had as many tricks as any boy ever had. He had nothing
when præpositer, and of course ruling under boys, of dignity about him, or of what might enforce
his authority. When he ought to have been angry, some monkey trick always came across him,
and he would make a serious complaint against a little boy, in a hop, step, and a jump.

Montague. Having a great predecessor before him under the appellation of "Mad Montague" had
always a consolatory comparison in this way in his favor. In truth, at times he wanted it,
for he was what has been termed a genius: but he was likewise so in talent. He was an admirable
poet, and had a neatness of expression seldom discoverable at such early years. In proof, may
be brought a line from a Latin poem on Cricket:

     "Clavigeri fallit verbera--virga cadit."

And another on scraping a man down at the Robin Hood:

     "Radit arenosam pes inimicus humum."

The scratching of the foot on the sandy floor is admirable.

During a vacation, Lord Sandwich took him to Holland; and he sported on his return a Dutch-built
coat for many weeks. The boys used to call him Mynheer Montague; but his common habit of oddity
soon got the better of his coat.

He rose to be a young man of great promise, as to abilities; and died too immaturely for his fame.

Tickell, the elder. Manu magis quam capite should have been his motto. By natural instinct
he loved ~83~~ fighting, and knew not what fear was. He went amongst his school-fellows by
the name of Hannibal, and Old Tough. A brother school-fellow of his, no less a man than the
Marquis of Buckingham, met, and recognised him again in Ireland, and with the most marked solicitude
of friendship, did every thing but assist him, in obtaining a troop of dragoons, which he had
much at heart.

Tickell, minor, should then have had the eulogy of how much elder art thou than thy years!
In those early days his exercises, read publicly in school, gave the anticipation of what time
and advancing years have brought forth. He was an admirable scholar, and a poet from nature;
forcible, neat, and discriminating. The fame of his grandsire, the Tickell of Addison, was
not hurt by the descent to him.

His sister, who was the beauty of Windsor castle, and the admiration of all, early excited
a passion in a boy then at school, who afterwards married her. Of this sister he was very fond;
but he was not less so of another female at Windsor, a regard since terminated in a better
way with his present wife.

His pamphlet of Anticipation, it is said, placed him where he since was, under the auspices
of Lord North; but his abilities were of better quality, and deserved a better situation for
their employment.

Lord Plymouth, then Lord Windsor, had to boast some distinctions, which kept him aloof from
the boys of his time. He was of that inordinate size that, like Falstaff, four square yards
on even ground were so many miles to him; and the struggles which he underwent to raise himself
when down might have been matter of instruction to a minority member. In the entrance to his
Dame's gate much circumspection was necessary; for, like some good men out of power, he found
it difficult to get in.

When in school, or otherwise, he was not undeserving of praise, either as to temper or ~84~~
scholarship; and whether out of the excellence of his Christianity, or that of good humour,
he was not very adverse to good living; and he continued so ever after.

Lord Leicester had the reputation of good scholarship, and not undeservedly. In regard to poetry,
however, he was sometimes apt to break the eighth commandment, and prove lie read more the
Musee Etonenses than his prayer-book. Inheriting it from Lord Townshend, the father of caricaturists,
he there pursued, with nearly equal ability, that turn for satiric drawing. The master, the
tutors, slender Prior, and fat Roberts,--all felt in rotation the effects of his pencil.

There too, as well as since, he had a most venerable affection for heraldry, and the same love
of collecting together old titles, and obsolete mottos. Once in the military, he had, it may
be said, a turn for arms. In a zeal of this kind he once got over the natural mildness of his
temper, and was heard to exclaim--"There are two griffins in my family that have been missing
these three centuries, and by G-, I'll have iliem back again!"-This passion was afterwards
improved into so perfect a knowledge, that in the creation of peers he was applied to, that
every due ceremonial might be observed; and he never failed in his recollection on these antiquated
subjects.

Tom Plummer gave then a specimen of that quickness and vivacity of parts for which he was afterwards
famed. But not as a scholar, not as a poet, was he quick alone; he was quick too in the wrong
ends of things, as well as the right, with a plausible account to follow it.

In fact, he was born for the law; clear, discriminating, judicious, alive, and with a noble
impartiality to all sides of questions, and which none could defend better. This goes, however,
only to the powers of his head; in those of the heart no one, and in the best ~85~~ and tenderest
qualities of it, ever stood better. He was liked universally, and should be so; for no man
was ever more meritorious for being good, as he who had all the abilities which sometimes make
a man otherwise.

In the progress of life mind changes often, and body almost always. Both these rules, however,
he lived to contradict; for his talents and his qualities retained their virtue; and when a
boy he was as tall as when a man, and apparently the same.

Capel Loft. In the language of Eton the word gig comprehended all that was ridiculous, all
that was to be laughed at, and plagued to death; and of all gigs that was, or ever will be,
this gentleman, while a boy, was the greatest.

He was like nothing, "in the heavens above, or the waters under the earth;" and therefore he
was surrounded by a mob of boys whenever he appeared. These days of popularity were not pleasant.
Luckily, however, for himself, he found some refuge from persecution in his scholarship. This
scholarship was much above the rate, and out of the manner of common boys.

As a poet, he possessed fluency and facility, but not the strongest imagination. As a classic,
he was admirable; and his prose themes upon different subjects displayed an acquaintance with
the Latin idiom and phraseology seldom acquired even by scholastic life, and the practice of
later years. Beyond this, he read much of everything that appeared, knew every thing, and was
acquainted with every better publication of the times.

Even then he studied law, politics, divinity; and could have written well upon those subjects.

These talents have served him since more effectually than they did then; more as man than boy:

For at school he was a kind of Gray Beard: he neither ran, played, jumped, swam, or fought,
as ~86~~ other boys do.

All these would have been, and were, as non-descriptive of him as they would have been of the
lord chancellor of England, with a dark brow and commanding mien, determining a cause of the
first interest to this country. Added to this, in personal appearance he was most unfavored;
and exemplified the Irish definition of an open countenance--a mouth from ear to ear.

Lord Hinchinbroke, from the earliest period of infancy, had all the marks of the Montagu family.
He had a good head, and a red head, and a Roman nose, and a turn to the ars amatoria of Ovid,
and all the writers who may have written on love. As it was in the beginning--may be said now.

Though in point of scholarship he was not in the very first line, the descendant of Lord Sandwich
could not but have ability, and he had it; but this was so mixed with the wanderings of the
heart, the vivacity of youthful imagination, and a turn to pleasure, that a steady pursuit
of any one object of a literary turn could not be expected.

But it was his praise that he went far in a short time; sometimes too far; for Barnard had
to exercise himself, and his red right arm, as the vengeful poet expresses it, very frequently
on the latter end of his lordship's excursions.

In one of these excursions to Windsor, he had the good or ill fortune to engage in a little
amorous amement with a young lady, the consequence of ~87~~ which was an application to Lucina
for assistance. Of this doctor Barnard was informed, and though the remedy did not seem tending
towards a cure, he was brought up immediately to be flogged.

He bore this better than his master, who cried out, after some few lashes--"Psha! what signifies
my flogging him for being like his father? What's bred in the bone will never get out of the
flesh."

Gibbs. Some men are overtaken by the law, and some few overtake it themselves. In this small,
but happy number, may be placed the name in question; and a name of better promise, whether
of man or boy, can scarcely be found any where.

At school he was on the foundation; and though amongst the Collegers, where the views of future
life, and hope of better days, arising from their own industry, make learning a necessity,
yet to that he added the better qualities of genius and talent.

As a classical scholar, he was admirable in both languages. As a poet, he was natural, ready,
and yet distinguished. Amongst the best exercises of the time, his were to be reckoned, and
are yet remembered with praise. For the medals given by Sir John Dalrymple for the best Latin
poem, he was a candidate; but though his production was publicly read by doctor Forster, and
well spoken of, he was obliged to give way to the superiority of another on that occasion.

Describing the winding of the Thames through its banks, it had this beautiful line:

     "Rodit arundineas facili sinuamine ripas------"

Perfect as to the picture, and beautiful as to the flowing of the poetry.

He had the good fortune and the good temper to be liked by every body of his own age; and he
was not enough found out of bounds, or trespassing against "sacred order," to be disliked by
those of greater age who were set over him.

~88~~ After passing through all the different forms at Eton, he was removed to Cambridge; where
he distinguished himself not less than at school in trials for different literary honors.

There he became assistant tutor to Sir Peter Burrell, who then listened to his instructions,
and has not since forgotten them.

As a tutor, he was somewhat young; but the suavity of his manners took away the comparison
of equality; and his real knowledge rendered him capable of instructing those who might be
even older than himself.

APOLLO'S VISIT TO ETON.{1}

          T'other night, as Apollo was quaffing a gill
          With his pupils, the Muses, from Helicon's rill,
          (For all circles of rank in Parnassus agree
          In preferring cold water to coffee or tea)
          The discourse turned as usual on critical matters,
          And the last stirring news from the kingdom of letters.
          But when poets, and critics, and wits, and what not,
          From Jeffery and Byron, to Stoddart and Stott,{2}
          Had received their due portion of consideration,
          Cried Apollo, "Pray, ladies, how goes education?
          For I own my poor brain's been so muddled of late,
          In transacting the greater affairs of the state;
          And so long every day in the courts I've been stewing,
          I've had no time to think what the children were doing.
          There's my favorite Byron my presence inviting,
          And Milman, and Coleridge, and Moore, have been writing;
          And my ears at this moment confoundedly tingle,
          From the squabbling of Blackwood with Cleghorn and Pringle:
          But as all their disputes seem at length at an end,
          And the poets my levee have ceased to attend;
          Since the weather's improving, and lengthen'd the days,
          For a visit to Eton I'll order my chaise:

     1  This poem, the reader will perceive, is an humble
     imitation of Leigh Hunt's "Feast of the Poets;" and the
     lines distinguished by asterisks are borrowed or altered
     from the original.

     2  A writer in "The Morning Post," mentioned by Lord Byron,
     in his "English Bards and Scotch Reviewers."

~90~~

          There's my sister Diana my day coach to drive,
          And I'll send the new Canto to keep you alive.
          So my business all settled, and absence supply'd,
          For an earthly excursion to-morrow I'll ride."
          Thus spoke king Apollo; the Muses assented;
          And the god went to bed most bepraised and contented.
          'Twas on Saturday morning, near half past eleven,
          When a god, like a devil,4 came driving from heaven,
          And with postboys, and footmen, and liveries blazing,
          Soon set half the country a gaping and gazing.
          When the carriage drove into the Christopher yard,
          How the waiters all bustled, and Garraway stared;
          And the hostlers and boot-catchers wonder'd, and swore
          "They'd ne'er seen such a start in their lifetime before!"
          I could tell how, as soon as his chariot drew nigh,
          Every cloud disappear'd from the face of the sky;
          And the birds in the hedges more tunefully sung,
          And the bells in St. George's spontaneously rung;
          And the people, all seized with divine inspiration,
          Couldn't talk without rhyming and versification.
          But such matters, though vastly important, I ween,
          Are too long for the limits of your magazine.

          Now it soon got abroad that Apollo was come,
          And intended to be, for that evening, "at home;"
          And that cards would be issued, and tickets be given,
          To all scholars and wits, for a dinner at seven.
          So he'd scarcely sat clown, when a legion came pouring
          Of would-be-thought scholars, his favor imploring.
          First, Buller stept in, with a lengthy oration
          About "scandalous usage," and "hard situation:"
          And such treatment as never, since Eton was started,

~91~~

          Had been shown to a genius, like him, "broken-hearted."
          He'd " no doubt but his friends in Parnassus must know
          How his fine declamation was laugh'd at below;
          And how Keate, like a blockhead ungifted with brains,
          Had neglected to grant him a prize for his pains.
          He was sure, if such conduct continued much longer,
          The school must grow weaker, and indolence stronger;
          That the rights of sixth form would be laid in the dust,
          And the school after that, he thought, tumble it must.
          But he knew that Apollo was learned and wise,
          And he hoped that his godship would give him a prize;
          Or, at least, to make up for his mortification,
          Would invite him to dinner without hesitation."
          Now Apollo, it seems, had some little pretence
          To a trifling proportion of wisdom and sense:
          So without ever asking the spark to be seated,
          He thus cut short his hopes, and his projects defeated.
          "After all, Mr. Buller, you've deign'd to repeat,
          I'm afraid that you'll think me as stupid as Keate:
          But to wave all disputes on your talents and knowledge,
          Pray what have you done as the captain of college?
          Have you patronized learning, or sapping commended?
          Have you e'er to your fags, or their studies, attended?
          To the school have you given of merit a sample,
          And directed by precept, or led by example?"

          *****

          What Apollo said more I'm forbidden to say,
          But Buller dined not at his table that day.
          Next, a smart little gentleman march'd with a stare up,
          A smoothing his neckcloth, and patting his hair up;
          And with bows and grimaces quadrillers might follow,
          Said, " he own'd that his face was unknown to Apollo;

~92~~

          But he held in hand what must be his apology,
          A short treatise he'd written on British Geology;
          And this journal, he hoped, of his studies last week,
          In philosophy, chemistry, logic, and Greek,
          Might appear on perusal: but not to go far
          In proclaiming his merits--his name was Tom Carr:
          And for proofs of his talents, deserts, and what not,
          He appeal'd to Miss Baillie, Lord Byron, and Scott."
          Here his speech was cut short by a hubbub below,
          And in walk'd Messrs. Maturin, Cookesly, and Co.,
          And begg'd leave to present to his majesty's finger--
          If he'd please to accept--No. 5 of the Linger.{5}
          Mr. Maturin "hoped he the columns would view
          With unprejudiced judgment, and give them their due,
          Nor believe all the lies, which perhaps he had seen,
          In that vile publication, that base magazine,{6}
          Which had dared to impeach his most chaste lucubrations,
          Of obscenity, nonsense, and such accusations.
          Nay, that impudent work had asserted downright,
          That chalk differ'd from cheese, and that black wasn't white;
          But he hoped he might meet with his majesty's favor;"
          And thus, hemming and hawing, he closed his palaver.

          Now the god condescended to look at the papers,
          But the first word he found in them gave him the vapours:
          For the eyes of Apollo, ye gods! 'twas a word
          Quite unfit to be written, and more to be heard;
          'Twas a word which a bargeman would tremble to utter,
          And it put his poor majesty all in a flutter;
          But collecting his courage, his laurels he shook,
          And around on the company cast such a look,
          That e'en Turin and Dumpling slank off to the door,
          And the Lion was far too much frighten'd to roar;

     5 An Eton periodical of the time.

     6 The College Magazine.

~93~~

          While poor Carr was attack'd with such qualms at the breast,
          That he took up his journal, and fled with the rest.

          When the tumult subsided, and peace 'gan to follow,
          Goddard enter'd the room, with three cards for Apollo,
          And some papers which, hardly five minutes before,
          Three respectable gownsmen had left at the door.
          With a smile of good humour the god look'd at each,
          For he found that they came from Blunt, Chapman, and Neech.{7}
          Blunt sent him a treatise of science profound,
          Showing how rotten eggs were distinguish'd from sound;
          Some "Remarks on Debates," and some long-winded stories,
          Of society Whigs, and society Tories;
          And six sheets and a half of a sage dissertation,
          On the present most wicked and dull generation.
          From Chapman came lectures on Monk, and on piety;
          On Simeon, and learning, and plays, and sobriety;
          With most clear illustrations, and critical notes,
          On his own right exclusive of canvassing votes.
          From Neech came a medley of prose and of rhyme,
          Satires, epigrams, sonnets, and sermons sublime;
          But he'd chosen all customs and rules to reverse,
          For his satires were prose, and las sermons were verse.
          Phoebus look'd at the papers, commended all three,
          And sent word he'd be happy to see them to tea.

          The affairs of the morning thus happily o'er,
          Phoebus pull'd from his pocket twelve tickets or more,
          Which the waiters were ordered forthwith to disperse
          'Mongst the most approved scribblers in prose and in verse:
          'Mongst the gentlemen honor'd with cards, let me see,
          There was Howard, and Coleridge, and Wood, and Lavie,
          The society's props; Curzon, major and minor,

     7 Principal contributors to the Etonian.

~94~~

          Bowen, Hennicker, Webbe, were invited to dinner:
          The theologist Buxton, and Petit, were seen,
          And philosopher Jenyns, and Donald Maclean;
          Bulteel too, and Dykes; but it happen'd (oh shame!)
          That, though many were ask'd, very few of them came.
          As for Coleridge, he "knew not what right Phobus had,
          d--n me, To set up for a judge in a christian academy;
          And he'd not condescend to submit his Latinity,
          Nor his verses, nor Greek, to a heathen divinity.
          For his part, he should think his advice an affront,
          Full as bad as the libels of Chapman and Blunt.
          He'd no doubt but his dinner might be very good,
          But he'd not go and taste it--be d--d if he would."

          Dean fear'd that his pupils their minds should defile,
          And Maclean was engaged to the duke of Argyll;
          In a deep fit of lethargy Petit had sunk,
          And theologist Buxton with Bishop was drunk;
          Bulteel too, and Dykes, much against their own will,
          Had been both pre-engaged to a party to mill;
          And philosopher Jenyns was bent on his knees,
          To electrify spiders, and galvanize fleas.
          But the rest all accepted the god's invitation,
          And made haste to prepare for this jollification.

          Now the dinner was handsome as dinner could be,
          But to tell every dish is too tedious for me;
          Such a task, at the best, would be irksome and long,
          And, besides, I must haste to the end of my song.
          'Tis enough to relate that, the better to dine,
          Jove sent them some nectar, and Bacchus some wine.
          From Minerva came olives to crown the dessert,
          And from Helicon water was sent most alert,
          Of which Howard, 'tis said, drank so long and so deep,
          That he almost fell into poetical sleep.{8}

          When the cloth was removed, and the bottle went round,

          "Nec fonte labra prolui C'aballino,
          Nec in bicipiti sommasse Parnasso."
          Persius.

~95~~

          Wit, glee, and good humour, began to abound,
          Though Lord Chesterfield would not have call'd them polite,
          For they all often burst into laughter outright.

          *****

          But swift flew the moments of rapture and glee,
          And too early, alas! they were summon'd to tea.
          With looks most demure, each prepared with a speech,
          At the table were seated Blunt, Chapman, and Neech.
          Phobus stopt their orations, with dignity free,
          And with easy politeness shook hands with all three;
          And the party proceeded, increased to a host,
          To discuss bread and butter, tea, coffee, and toast.
          As their numbers grew larger, more loud grew their mirth,
          And Apollo from heav'n drew its raptures to earth:
          With divine inspiration he kindled each mind,
          Till their wit, like their sugar, grew double refined;
          And an evening, enliven'd by conviviality,
          Proved how much they were pleased by the god's hospitality.

          Thalia.{9}

     9 This poem is attributed to J. Moultrie, Esq. of Trinity
     college, Cambridge.

ETON MONTEM.

          Stand by, old Cant, while I admire
          The young and gay, with souls of fire,
          Unloose the cheerful heart.
          Hence with thy puritanic zeal;
          True virtue is to grant and feel--
          A bliss thou'lt ne'er impart.

I love thee, Montem,--love thee, by all the brightest recollections of my youth, for the inspiring
pleasures which thy triennial pageant revives in my heart: joined with thy merry throng, I
can forget the cares and disappointments of the world; and, tripping gaily with the light-hearted,
youthful band, cast off the gloom of envy and of worldly pursuit, reassociating myself with
the joyous scenes of my boyhood. Nay, more, I hold thee in higher veneration than ever did
antiquarian worship the relics of virtu.

~97~~

Destruction light upon the impious hand that would abridge thy ancient charter;--be all thy
children, father Etona, doubly-armed to defend thy ancient honors;--let no modern Goth presume
to violate thy sacred rights; but to the end of time may future generations retain the spirit
of thy present race; and often as the happy period comes, new pleasures wait upon the Eton
Montem.{1}

     1 The ancient custom, celebrated at Eton every third year,
     on Whit-Tuesday, and which bears the title of The Montem,
     appears to have defied antiquarian research, as far as
     relates to its original institution. It consiste of a
     procession to a small tumulus on the southern side of the
     Bath road, which has given the name of Salt-Hill to the
     spot, now better known by the splendid inns that are
     established there. The chief object of this celebration,
     however, is to collect money for salt, according to the
     language of the day, from all persons who assemble to see
     the show, nor does it fail to be exacted from travellers on
     the road, and even at the private residences within a
     certain, but no inconsiderable, range of the spot. The
     scholars appointed to collect the money are called salt-
     bearers; they are arrayed in fancy dresses, and are
     attended by others called scouts, of a similar, but less
     showy appearance. Tickets are given to such persons as have
     paid their contributions, to secure them from any further
     demand. This ceremony is always very numerously attended by
     Etonians, and has frequently been honored with the presence
     of his late Majesty, and the different branches of the Royal
     Family. The sum collected on the occasion has sometimes
     exceeded 800L., and is given to the senior scholar, who is
     called Captain of the School. This procession appears to be
     coeval with the foundation; and it is the opinion of Mr.
     Lysons, that it was a ceremonial of the Bairn, or Boy-
     Bishop. He states, that it originally took place on the 6th
     of December, the festival of St. Nicholas, the patron of
     children; being the day on which it was customary at
     Salisbury, and in other places where the ceremony was
     observed, to elect the Boy-Bishop from among the children
     belonging to the cathedral. This mock dignity lasted till
     Innocents' day; and, during the intermediate time, the boy
     performed various episcopal functions. If it happened that
     he died before the allotted period of this extraordinary
     mummery had expired, he was buried with all the ceremonials
     which were used at the funerals of prelates. In the
     voluminous collections relating to antiquities, bequeathed
     by Mr. Cole, who was himself of Eton and King's colleges, to
     the British Museum, is a note which

~98~~

     mentions that the ceremony of the Bairn or Boy-Bishop was to
     be observed by charter, and that Geoffry Blythe, Bishop of
     Lichfield, who died in 1530, bequeathed several ornaments
     to those colleges, for the dress of the bairn-bishop. But on
     what authority this industrious antiquary gives the
     information, which, if correct, would put an end to all
     doubt on the subject, does not appear. But, after all, why
     may not this custom be supposed to have originated in a
     procession to perform an annual mass at the altar of some
     saint, to whom a small chapel might have been dedicated on
     the mount called Salt-Hill; a ceremony very common in
     Catholic countries, as such an altar is a frequent appendage
     to their towns and populous villages? As for the selling of
     salt, it may be considered as a natural accompaniment, when
     its emblematical character, as to its use in the ceremonies
     of the Roman Church, is contemplated. Till the time of
     Doctor Barnard, the procession of the Montem was every two
     years, and on the first or second Tuesday in February. It
     consisted of something of a military array. The boys in the
     remove, fourth, and inferior forms, marched in a long file
     of two and two, with white poles in their hands, while the
     sixth and fifth form boys walked on their flanks as
     officers, and habited in all the variety of dress, each of
     them having a boy of the inferior forms, smartly equipped,
     attending on him as a footman. The second boy in the school
     led the procession in a military dress, with a truncheon in
     his hand, and bore for the day the title of Marshal: then
     followed the Captain, supported by his Chaplain, the head
     scholar of the fifth form, dressed in a suit of black, with
     a large bushy wig, and a broad beaver decorated with a
     twisted silk hatband and rose, the fashionable distinction
     of the dignified clergy of that day. It was his office to
     read certain Latin prayers on the mount at Salt-Hill The
     third boy of the school brought up the rear as Lieutenant.
     One of the higher classes, whose qualification was his
     activity, was chosen Ensign, and carried the colours, which
     were emblazoned with the college arms, and the motto, Pro
     mort el monte. This flag, before the procession left the
     college, he flourished in the school-yard with all the
     dexterity displayed at Astley's and places of similar
     exhibition. The same ceremony was repeated after prayers, on
     the mount. The regiment dined in the inns at Salt-Hill, and
     then returned to the college; and its dismission in the
     school-yard was announced by the universal drawing of all
     the swords. Those who bore the title of commissioned
     officers were exclusively on the foundation, and carried
     spontoons; the rest were considered as Serjeants and
     corporals, and a most curious assemblage of figures they
     exhibited. The two principal salt-bearers consisted of an
     oppidan and a colleger: the former was generally some
     nobleman, whose figure and personal connexions might advance
     the interests of the collections. They were dressed like
     running footmen, and carried, each of them, a silk bag to
     receive the contributions, in which was a small quantity of
     salt. During Doctor Barnard's mastership, the ceremony was
     made triennial, the time changed from February to Whit-
     Tuesday, and several of its absurdities retrenched. An
     ancient and savage custom of hunting a ram by the foundation
     scholars, on Saturday in the election week, was abolished in
     the earlier part of the last century. The curious twisted
     clubs with which these collegiate hunters were armed on the
     occasion are still to be seen in antiquarian collections.

~99~~

What coronation, tournament, or courtly pageant, can outshine thy splendid innocence and delightful
gaiety? what regal banquet yields half the pure enjoyment the sons of old Etona experience,
when, after months of busy preparation, the happy morn arrives ushered in with the inspiring
notes of "Auld lang syne" from the well-chosen band in the college breakfast-room? Then, too,
the crowds of admiring spectators, the angel host of captivating beauties with their starry
orbs of light, and luxuriant tresses, curling in playful elegance around a face beaming with
divinity, or falling in admired negligence over bosoms of alabastrine whiteness and unspotted
purity within! Grey-bearded wisdom and the peerless great, the stars of honor in the field
and state, the pulpit and the bar, send forth their brightest ornaments to grace Etona's holiday.
Oxford and Cambridge, too, lend their classic aid, and many a grateful son of Alma Mater returns
to acknowledge his obligations to his early tutors and swell the number of the mirthful host.
Here may be seen, concentrated in the quadrangle, the costume of every nation, in all the gay
variety that fancy can devise: the Persian spangled robe, and the embroidered Greek vest; the
graceful Spanish, and the picturesque Italian, the Roman toga and the tunic, and the rich old
English suit. Pages in red frocks, and marshals in their satin 100~~ doublets; white wands
and splendid turbans, plumes, and velvet hats, all hastening with a ready zeal to obey the
call of the muster-roll. The captain with his retinue retires to pay his court to the provost;
while, in the doctor's study, may be seen, gathered around the dignitary, a few of those great
names who honor Eton and owe their honor to her classic tutors. Twelve o'clock strikes, and
the procession is now marshalled in the quadrangle in sight of the privileged circle, princes,
dukes, peers, and doctors with their ladies. Here does the ensign first display his skill in
public, and the Montem banner is flourished in horizontal revolutions about the head and waist
with every grace of elegance and ease which the result of three months' practice and no little
strength can accomplish.

Twelve o'clock strikes, and the procession moves forward to the playing fields on its route
to Salt-Hill. Now look the venerable spires and antique towers of Eton like to some chieftain's
baronial castle in the feudal times, and the proud captain represents the hero marching forth
at the head of his parti-coloured vassals!

The gallant display of rank and fashion and beauty follow in their splendid equipages by slow
progressive movement, like the delightful lingering, inch by inch approach to St. James's palace
on a full court-day. The place itself is calculated to impress the mind with sentiments of
veneration and of heart-moving reminiscences; seated in the bosom of one of the richest landscapes
in the kingdom, where on the height majestic Windsor lifts its royal brow; calmly magnificent,
over-looking, from his round tower, the surrounding country, and waving his kingly banner in
the air: 'tis the high court of English chivalry, the birth-place, the residence, and the mausoleum
of her kings, and "i' the olden time," the prison of her captured monarchs. "At once, the sovereign's
and ~101~~ the muses' seat," rich beyond almost any other district in palaces, and fanes, and
villas, in all the "pomp of patriarchal forests," and gently-swelling hills, and noble streams,
and waving harvests; there Denham wrote, and Pope breathed the soft note of pastoral inspiration;
and there too the immortal bard of Avon chose the scene in which to wind the snares of love
around his fat-encumbered knight. Who can visit the spot without thinking of Datchet mead and
the buck-basket of sweet Anne Page and Master Slender, and mine host of the Garter, and all
the rest of that merry, intriguing crew? And now having reached the foot of the mount and old
druidical barrow, the flag is again waved amid the cheers of the surrounding thousands who
line its sides, and in their carriages environ its ancient base.{2} Now the salt-bearers and
the pages bank their collections in one common stock, and the juvenile band partake of the
captain's banquet, and drink success to his future prospects in Botham's port. Then, too, old
Herbertus Stockhore--he must not be forgotten; I have already introduced him to your notice
in p. 59, and my friend Bob Transit has illustrated the sketch with his portrait; yet here
he demands notice in his official character, and perhaps I cannot do better than quote the
humorous account given of him by the elegant pen of an old Etonian {3}

"Who is that buffoon that travesties the travesty? Who is that old cripple alighted from his
donkey-cart, who dispenses doggrel and grimaces in all the glory of plush and printed calico?"

"That, my most noble cynic, is a prodigious personage. Shall birth-days and coronations be
recorded in immortal odes, and Montem not have its minstrel 1 He, sir, is Herbertus Stockhore;
who first called upon his muse in the good old days of Paul Whitehead,--

     2 See plate of the Montem, sketched on the spot.

     3 See Knight's Quarterly Magazine, No. II.

~102~~ run a race with Pye through all the sublimities of lyres and fires,--and is now hobbling
to his grave, after having sung fourteen Montems, the only existing example of a legitimate
laureate.

"He ascended his heaven of invention, before the vulgar arts of reading and writing, which
are banishing all poetry from the world, could clip his wings. He was an adventurous soldier
in his boyhood; but, having addicted himself to matrimony and the muses, settled as a bricklayer's
labourer at Windsor. His meditations on the house-tops soon grew into form and substance; and,
about the year 1780, he aspired, with all the impudence of Shad well, and a little of the pride
of Petrarch, to the laurel-crown of Eton. From that day he has worn his honors on his 'Cibberian
forehead' without a rival."

"And what is his style of composition?"

"Vastly naïve and original;--though the character of the age is sometimes impressed upon his
productions. For the first three odes, ere the school of Pope was extinct, he was a compiler
of regular couplets such as--

          'Ye dames of honor and lords of high renown,
          Who come to visit us at Eton town.'"

During the next nine years, when the remembrance of Collins and Gray was working a glorious
change in the popular mind, he ascended to Pindarics, and closed his lyrics with some such
pious invocation as this:--

          'And now we'll sing
          God save the king,

          And send him long to reign,
          That he may come
          To have some fun
          At Montem once again. '

During the first twelve years of the present century, the influence of the Lake school was
visible in his ~103~~ productions. In my great work I shall give an elaborate dissertation
on his imitations of the high-priests of that worship; but I must now content myself with a
single illustration:--

          'There's ensign Ronnell, tall and proud,
          Doth stand upon the hill,
          And waves the flag to all the crowd,
          Who much admire his skill.
          And here I sit upon my ass,
          Who lops his shaggy ears;
          Mild thing! he lets the gentry pass,
          Nor heeds the carriages and peel's.'

He was once infected (but it was a venial sin) by the heresies of the cockney school; and was
betrayed, by the contagion of evil example, into the following conceits:

'Behold admiral Keato of the terrestrial crew, Who teaches Greek, Latin, and likewise Hebrew;
He has taught Captain Dampier, the first in the race, Swirling his hat with a feathery grace,
Cookson the marshal, and Willoughby, of size, Making minor serjeant-majors in looking-glass eyes.'

But he at length returned to his own pure and original style; and, like the dying swan, he
sings the sweeter as he is approaching the land where the voice of his minstrelsy shall no
more be heard. There is a calm melancholy in the close of his present ode which is very pathetic,
and almost Shakspearian:--

         'Farewell you gay and happy throng!
          Farewell my muse! farewell my song!
          Farewell Salt-hill! farewell brave captain.'

Yet, may it be long before he goes hence and is no more seen! May he limp, like his rhymes,
for at least a dozen years; for National schools have utterly annihilated our hopes of a successor!"

"I will not attempt to reason with you," said the inquirer, "about the pleasures of Montem;--but
to an ~104~~ Etonian it is enough that it brings pure and ennobling recollections--calls up
associations of hope and happiness--and makes even the wise feel that there is something better
than wisdom, and the great that there is something nobler than greatness. And then the faces
that come about us at such a time, with their tales of old friendships or generous rivalries.
I have seen to-day fifty fellows of whom I remember only the nick-names;--they are now degenerated
into scheming M.P.'s, or clever lawyers, or portly doctors; -but at Montera they leave the
plodding world of reality for one day, and regain the dignities of sixth-form Etonians." {4}

     4 To enumerate all the distinguished persons educated at
     Eton would be no easy task; many of the greatest ornaments
     of our country have laid the foundation of all their
     literary and scientific wealth within the towers of this
     venerable edifice. Bishops Fleetwood and Pearson, the
     learned John Hales, Dr. Stanhope, Sir Robert Walpole, the
     great Earl Camden, Outred the mathematician, Boyle the
     philosopher, Waller the poet, the illustrious Earl of
     Chatham, Lord Lyttelton, Gray the poet, and an endless list
     of shining characters have owned Eton for their scholastic
     nursery: not to mention the various existing literati who
     have received their education at this celebrated college.
     The local situation of Eton is romantic and pleasing; there
     is a monastic gloom about the building, finely contrasting
     with the beauty of the surrounding scenery, which
     irresistibly enchains the eye and heart.

~105~~

FAREWELL TO ETON.

Horatio had just concluded the last sentence of the description of the Eton Montem, when my
aunt, who had now exceeded her usual retiring time by at least half an hour, made a sudden
start, upon hearing the chimes of the old castle clock proclaim a notice of the midnight hour.
"Heavens! boy," said Lady Mary Oldstyle, "what rakes we are! I believe we must abandon all
intention of inviting your friend Bernard here; for should his conversation prove half as entertaining
as these miscellaneous whims and scraps of his early years, we should, I fear, often encroach
upon the midnight lamp." "You forget, aunt," replied Horatio, "that the swallow has already
commenced his spring habitation beneath the housings of our bed-room window, that the long
summer evenings will soon be here, and then how delightful would be the society of an intelligent
friend to accompany us in our evening perambulations through the park, to chat away half an
hour with in the hermitage, or to hold converse on your favourite subject botany, and run through
all the varieties of the camelia japonica, or the magnolia fuscata; then too, I will confess,
my own selfishness in the proposition, the pleasure of my friend's company in my fishing excursions,
would divest my favourite amusement of its solitary character." ~106~~ My aunt nodded assent,
drew the cowl of her ancient silk cloak over the back part of her head, and, with a half-closed
eye, muttered out, in tones of sympathy, her fullest accordance in the proposed arrangement.
"I have only one more trifle to read," said Horatio, "before I conclude the history of our
school-boy days." "We had better have the bed-candles," said my aunt. "You had better hear
the conclusion, aunt," said Horatio, "and then we can commence the English Spy with the evening
of to-morrow." My aunt wanted but little excitement to accede to the request, and that little
was much exceeded in the promise of Horatio's reading Bernard's new work on the succeeding
evening, when she had calculated on being left in solitary singleness by her nephew's visit
to the county ball. "You must know, aunt," said Horatio, "that it has been a custom, from time
immemorial at Eton, for every scholar to write a farewell ode on his leaving, which is presented
to the head master, and is called a Vale; in addition, some of the most distinguished characters
employ first-rate artists to paint their portraits, which, as a tribute of respect, they present
to the principal. Dr. Barnard had nearly a hundred of these grateful faces hanging in his sanctum
sanctorum, and the present master bids fair to rival his learned and respected predecessor.
~107~~ My friend's Vale, like every other production of his pen, is marked by the distinguishing
characteristic eccentricity of his mind. The idea, I suspect, was suggested by the Earl of
Carlisle's elegant verses, to which he has previously alluded; you will perceive he has again
touched upon the peculiarities of his associates, the dramatis persono of 'the English Spy,'
and endeavoured, in prophetic verse, to unfold the secrets of futurity, as it relates to their
dispositions, prospects, and pursuits in life."

MY VALE.

          In infancy oft' by observance we trace
          What life's future page may unfold;
          Who the senate, the bar, or the pulpit may grace,

          Who'll obtain wreathe of fame or of gold.
          My Vale, should my muse prove but willing and free,

          Parting sorrows to chase from my brain,
          Shall in metre prophetic, on some two or three,

          Indulge in her whimsical vein.
          First Keate let me give to thy talents and worth,

          A tribute that all will approve;
          When Atropos shall sever thy life's thread on earth

          Thou shalt fall rich in honor and love.
          Revered as respected thy memory last,

~108~~

          Long, long, as Etona is known,
          Engraved on the hearts of thy scholars, the blast

          Of detraction ne'er sully thy stone.
          Others too I could name and as worthy of note,

          But my Vale 'twould too lengthy extend:
          Sage Domine all,--all deserving my vote,
          Who the tutor combine with the friend.
          But a truce with these ancients, the young I must seek,

          The juvenile friends of my heart,
          Of secrets hid in futurity speak,

          And tell how they'll each play their part.
          First Heartly, the warmth of thy generous heart

          Shall expand with maturity's years;
          New joys to the ag'd and the poor thou'lt impart,

          And dry up pale Misery's tears.
          Next honest Tom Echo, the giddy and gay,

          In sports shall all others excel;
          And the sound of his horn, with "Ho! boys, hark--away!"
          Re-echo his worth through life's dell.

~109~~

          Horace Eglantine deep at Pierian spring
          Inspiration poetic shall quaff,
          In numbers majestic with Shakespeare to sing,

          Or in Lyrics with Pindar to laugh.
          Little Gradus, sage Dick, you'll a senator see,

          But a lawyer in every sense,
          Whose personal interest must paramount be,

          No matter whate'er his pretence.
          The exquisite Lilyman Lionise mark,

          Of fashion the fool and the sport;
          With the gamesters a dupe, he shall drop like a spark,

          Forgot by the blaze of the court.
          Bob Transit,--if prudent, respected and rich

          By his talent shall rise into note;
          And in Fame's honor'd temple be sure of a niche,

          By each R.A.'s unanimous vote.
          Bernard Blackmantle's fortune alone is in doubt,

          For prophets ne'er tell of themselves;
          But one thing his heart has a long time found out,

~110~~

          'Tis his love for Etonian elves.
          For the college, and dames, and the dear playing fields

          Where science and friendship preside,
          For the spot which the balm of true happiness yields,

          As each day by its fellow doth glide.
          Adieu, honor'd masters! kind dames, fare thee well!

          Ye light-hearted spirits adieu!
          How feeble my Vale--my griev'd feelings to tell
          As Etona declines from my view.

~112~~

          "Men are my subject, and not fictions vain;
          Oxford my chaunt, and satire is my strain."

FIVE CHARACTERISTIC ORDERS OF OXFORD.

          "Yes; if there be one sacred scene of ease,
          Where reason yet may dawn, and virtue please;
          Where ancient science bursts again to view
          With mightier truths, which Athens never knew,
          One spot to order, peace, religion dear;
          Rise, honest pride, nor blush to claim it here."

Who shall attempt to describe the sensations of a young and ardent mind just bursting from
the trammels of scholastic discipline to breathe the purer air of classic freedom--to leap
at once from ~114~~ boyhood and subjection into maturity and unrestricted liberty of conduct;
or who can paint the heart's agitation, the conflicting passions which prevail when the important
moment arrives that is to separate him from the associates of his infancy; from the endearing
friendships of his earliest years; from his schoolboy sports and pastimes (often the most grateful
recollections of a riper period); or from those ancient spires and familiar scenes to which
his heart is wedded in its purest and earliest love.

Reader, if you have ever tasted of the delightful cup of youthful friendship, and pressed with
all the glow of early and sincere attachment the venerable hand of a kind instructor, or met
the wistful eye and hearty grasp of parting schoolfellows, and ancient dames, and obliging
servants, you will easily discover how embarrassing a task it must be to depict in words the
agitating sensations which at such a moment spread their varied influence over the mind. I
had taken care to secure the box seat of the old Oxford, that on my approach I might enjoy
an uninterrupted view of the classic turrets and lofty spires of sacred {Academus}. Contemplation
had fixed his seal upon my young lips for the first ten miles of my journey. Abstracted and
thoughtful, I had scarce turned my eye to admire the beauties of the surrounding scenery, or
lent my ear to the busy hum of my fellow passengers' conversation, when a sudden action of
the coach, which produced a sensation of alarm, first broke the gloomy mist that had encompassed
me. After my fears had subsided, I inquired of the coachman what was the name of the place
we had arrived at, and was answered Henley.-"Stony Henley, sir," said our driver: "you might
have discovered that by the bit of a shake we just now experienced. I'll bet a bullfinch{1}
that you know the place well enough, my young master, before you've been two terms at Oxford."

     1 A sovereign.

~115~~

This familiarity of style struck me as deserving reprehension; but I reflected this classic
Jehu was perhaps licensed by the light-hearted sons of Alma Mater in these liberties of speech.
Suspending therefore my indignation, I proceeded,--"And why so?" said I inquisitively:--"Why
I know when I was an under graduate{2} of ----, where my father was principal, I used to keep
a good prad here for a bolt to the village,{3} and then I had a fresh hack always on the road
to help me back to chapel prayers."{4} The nonchalance of the speaker, and the easy indifference
with which he alluded to his former situation in life, struck me with astonishment, and created
a curiosity to know more of his adventures; he had, I found, brought himself to his present
degradation by a passion for gaming and driving, which had usurped every just and moral feeling.
His father, I have since learned, felt his conduct deeply, and had been dead some time. His
venerable mother having advanced him all her remaining property, was now reduced to a dependence
upon the benevolence of a few liberal-minded Oxford friends, and this son of the once celebrated
head of--------college was now so lost to every sense of shame that he preferred the Oxford
road to exhibit himself on in his new character of a {university whip}.

     2  The circumstances here narrated are unfortunately too
     notorious to require further explanation: the character,
     drawn from the life, forms the vignette to this chapter.

     3  A cant phrase for a stolen run to the metropolis. No
     unusual circumstance with a gay Oxonian, some of whom have
     been known to ride the same horse the whole distance and
     back again after prayers, and before daylight the next
     morning.

     4  When (to use the Oxford phrase) a man is confined to
     chapel, or compelled to attend chapel prayers, it is a
     dangerous risk to be missing,--a severe imposition and
     sometimes rustication is sure to be the penalty.

~116~~ Immediately behind me on the roof of the vehicle sat a rosy-looking little gentleman,
the rotundity of whose figure proclaimed him a man of some substance; he was habited in a suit
of clerical mixture, with the true orthodox hat and rosette in front, the broadness of its
brim serving to throw a fine mellow shadow over the upper part of a countenance, which would
have formed a choice study for the luxuriant pencil of some modern Rubens; the eyes were partially
obscured in the deep recesses of an overhanging brow, and a high fat cheek, and the whole figure
brought to my recollection a representation I had somewhere seen of Silenus reproving his Bacchanals:
the picture was the more striking by the contrasted subjects it was opposed to: on one side
was a spare-looking stripling, of about the age of eighteen, with lank hair brushed smoothly
over his forehead, and a demure, half-idiot-looking countenance, that seemed to catch what
little expression it had from the reflection of its sire, for such I discovered was the ancient's
affinity to this cadaverous importation from North Wales. The father, a Welsh rector of at
least one hundred and fifty pounds per annum, was conveying his eldest born to the care of
the principal of Jesus, of which college the family of the Joneses{5} had been a leading name
since the time of their great ancestor Hugh ap Price, son of Rees ap Rees, a wealthy burgess
of Brecknock, who founded this college for the sole use of the sons of Cambria, in 1571.

     5 DAVID JONES OR, WINE AND WORSTED.

          Hugh Morgan, cousin of that Hugh
          Whose cousin was, the Lord knows who,
          Was likewise, as the story runs,
          Tenth cousin of one David Jones.
          David, well stored with classic knowledge,
          Was sent betimes to Jesus College;
          Paternal bounty left him clear
          For life one hundred pounds a year;
          And Jones was deem'd another Croesus
          Among the Commoners of Jesus.
          It boots not here to quote tradition,
          In proof of David's erudition;--
          He could unfold the mystery high,
          Of Paulo-posts, and verbs in u;
          Scan Virgil, and, in mathematics,
          Prove that straight lines were not quadratics.
          All Oxford hail'd the youth's ingressus,
          And wond'ring Welshmen cried "Cot pless us!"
          It happen'd that his cousin Hugh
          Through Oxford pass'd, to Cambria due,
          And from his erudite relation
          Receiv'd a written invitation.

~117~~

          Hugh to the college gate repair'd,
          And ask'd for Jones;--the porter stared!
          "Jones! Sir," quoth he, "discriminate:
          Of Mr. Joneses there be eight."
          "Ay, but 'tis David Jones," quoth Hugh;
          Quoth porter, "We've six Davids too."
          "Cot's flesh!" cries Morgan, "cease your mockings,
          My David Jones wears worsted stockings!"
          Quoth porter, "Which it is, Heaven knows,
          For all the eight wear worsted hose."
          "My Cot!" says Hugh, "I'm ask'd to dine
          With cousin Jones, and quaff his wine."
          "That one word 'wine' is worth a dozen,"
          Quoth porter, "now I know your cousin;
          The wine has stood you, sir, in more stead
          Than David, or the hose of worsted;
          You'll find your friend at number nine--
          We've but one Jones that quaffs his wine."

All these particulars I gleaned from the rapid delivery of the Welsh rector, who betrayed no
little anxiety to discover if I was of the university; how long I had been matriculated; what
was my opinion of the schools, and above all, if the same system of extravagance was pursued
by the students, and under-graduates. Too cautious to confess myself a freshman, I was therefore
compelled to close the inquiry with a simple negative to his early questions, and an avowal
of my ignorance in the last particular. The deficiency was, however, readily supplied by an
old gentleman, who sat on the other side of the reverend Mr. Jones. I had taken ~118~~ him,
in the first instance, for a doctor of laws, physic, or divinity, by the studied neatness of
his dress, the powdered head, and ancient appendage of a queue; with a measured manner of delivery,
joined to an affected solemnity of carriage, and authoritative style. He knew every body, from
the Vice-Chancellor to the scout; ran through a long tirade against driving and drinking, which
he described as the capital sins of the sons of Alma Mater, complimented the old rector on
his choice of a college for his son, and concluded with lamenting the great extravagance of
the young men of the present day, whose affection for long credit compelled honest tradesmen
to make out long bills to meet the loss of interest they sustain by dunning and delay. "Observe,
sir," said he,

          "The youth of England in our happy age!
          See, to their view what varied pleasure springs,
          Cards, tennis, hilliards, and ten thousand things;
          'Tis theirs the coat with neater grace to wear,
          Or tie the neckcloth with a royal air:
          The rapid race of wild expense to run;
          To drive the tandem or the chaise and one;
          To float along the Isis, or to fly
          In haste to Abingdon,--who knows not why?
          To gaze in shops, and saunter hours away
          In raising bills, they never think to pay:
          Then deep carouse, and raise their glee the more,
          While angry duns assault th' unheeding door,
          And feed the best old man that ever trod,
          The merry poacher who defies his God."

"You forget the long purses, Sir E--," said our classical Jehu, "which some of the Oxford tradesmen
have acquired by these long practices of the university, Sir E--." The little Welsh rector
bowed with astonishment, while his rustic scion stared with wild alarm to find himself for
the first time in his life in company with a man of title. A wink from coachee accompanied
with an action of his rein angle against my side, followed by a suppressed laugh, prepared
me ~119~~ for some important communications relative to my fellow traveller. "An old snyder,"{6}
whispered Jehu, "who was once mayor of Oxford, and they do say was knighted by mistake,--'
a thing of shreds and patches,'

          'Who, by short skirts and little capes,
          Items for buckram, twist, and tapes, '

has, in his time, fine drawn half the university; but having retired from the seat of trade,
now seeks the seat of the Muses, and writes fustian rhymes and bell-men's odes at Christmas
time: a mere clod, but a great man with the corporation."

We had now arrived on the heights within a short distance of the city of Oxford, and I had
the gratification for the first time to obtain a glance of sacred Academus peeping from between
the elm groves in which she is embowered, to view those turrets which were to be the future
scene of all my hopes and fears. Never shall I forget the sensations,

          "----When first these glistening eyes survey'd
          Majestic Oxford's hundred towers display'd;
          And silver Isis rolling at her feet
          Adorn the sage's and the poet's seat:
          Saw Radcliffe's dome in classic beauty rear'd,
          And learning's stores in Bodley's pile revered;
          First view'd, with humble awe, the steps that stray'd
          Slow in the gloom of academic shade,
          Or framed in thought, with fancy's magic wand,
          Wise Bacon's arch; thy bower, fair Rosamond."

In the bosom of a delightful valley, surrounded by the most luxuriant meadows, and environed
by gently swelling hills, smiling in all the pride of cultivated beauty, on every side diversified
by hanging wood, stands the fair city of learning and the arts. The two great roads from the
capital converge upon the small church of St. Clement, in the eastern suburb, from whence,
advancing in a westerly direction, you ~120~~ arrive at Magdalen bridge, so named from the
college adjoining, whose lofty graceful tower is considered a fine specimen of architecture.
The prospect of the city from this point is singularly grand and captivating; on the left,
the botanical garden, with its handsome portal; beyond, steeples and towers of every varied
form shooting up in different degrees of elevation. The view of the High-street is magnificent,
and must impress the youthful mind with sentiments of awe and veneration. Its picturesque curve
and expansive width, the noble assemblage of public and private edifices in all the pride of
varied art, not rising in splendid uniformity, but producing an enchantingly varied whole,
the entire perspective of which admits of no European rival--

          "The awful tow'rs which seem for science made;
          The solemn chapels, which to prayer invite,
          Whose storied windows shed a holy light--"

the colleges of Queen's and All Souls', with the churches of St. Mary and All Saints' on the
northern side of the street, and the venerable front of University College on the south, present
at every step objects for contemplation and delight. Whirling up this graceful curvature, we
alighted at the Mitre, an inn in the front of the High-street, inclining towards Carfax. A
number of under graduates in their academicals were posted round the door, or lounging on the
opposite side, to watch the arrival of the coach, and amuse themselves with quizzing the passengers.
Among the foremost of the group, and not the least active, was my old schoolfellow and con,
Tom Echo, now of Christ Church. The recognition was instantaneous; the welcome a hearty one,
in the true Etonian style; and the first connected sentence an invitation to dinner. "I shall
make a party on purpose to introduce you, old chap," said Tom, "that is, ~121~~ as soon as
you have made your bow to the big wig:{7} but I say, old fellow, where are you entered 1 we
are most of us overflowingly full here." I quickly satisfied his curiosity upon that point,
by informing him I had been for some time enrolled upon the list of the foundation of Brazennose,
and had received orders to come up and enter myself. Our conversation now turned upon the necessary
ceremonies of matriculation.

Tom's face was enlivened to a degree when I showed him my letter of introduction to Dr. Dingyman,
of L-n college. "What, the opposition member, the Oxford Palladio? Why, you might just as well
expect to move the Temple of the Winds from Athens to Oxford, without displacing a fragment,
as to hope the doctor will present you to the vice-chancellor.--It won't do. We must find you
some more tractable personage; some good-humoured nob that stands well with the principals,
tells funny stories to their ladies, and drinks his three bottles like a true son of orthodoxy."
"For Heaven's sake! my dear fellow, if you do not wish to be pointed at, booked for an eccentric,
or suspected of being profound, abandon all intention of being introduced through that medium.
A first interview with that singular man will produce an examination that would far exceed
the perils of the great go{8}-he will try your proficiency by the chart and scale of truth."
"Be that as it may, Tom," said I, not a little alarmed by the account I had heard of the person
to whom I was to owe my first introduction to alma mater, "I shall make the attempt; and should
I fail, I shall yet hope to avail myself of your proffered kindness."

     7  A BIG WIG. Head of a college.
        A DON. A learned man.
        A NOB. A fellow of a college.

     8  The principal examining school.

~122~~

After partaking of some refreshment, and adjusting my dress, we sallied forth to lionise, as
Tom called it, which is the Oxford term for gazing about, usually applied to strangers. Proceeding
a little way along the high street from the Mitre, and turning up the first opening on our
left hand, we stood before the gateway of Lincoln college. Here Tom shook hands, wished me
a safe passport through what he was pleased to term the "Oxonia purgata" and left me, after
receiving my promise to join the dinner party at Christ Church.

I had never felt so awkwardly in my life before: the apprehensions I was under of a severe
examination; the difficulty of encountering a man whose superior learning and endowments of
mind had rendered him the envy of the University, and above all, his reputed eccentricity of
manners, created fears that almost palsied my tongue when I approached the hall to announce
my arrival. If my ideas of the person had thus confounded me, my terrors were doubly increased
upon entering his chamber: shelves groaning with ponderous folios and quartos of the most esteemed
Latin and Greek authors, fragments of Grecian and Roman architecture, were disposed around
the room; on the table lay a copy of Stuart's Athens, with a portfolio of drawings from Palladio
and Vitruvius, and Pozzo's perspective. In a moment the doctor entered, and, advancing towards
me, seized my hand before I could scarcely articulate my respects. "I am glad to see you--be
seated--you are of Eton, I read, an ancient name and highly respected here--what works have
you been lately reading?" I immediately ran through the list of our best school classics, at
which I perceived the doctor smiled. "You have been treated, I perceive, like all who have
preceded you: the bigotry of scholastic prejudices is intolerable. I have been for fifty years
labouring to remove the veil, and have yet contrived ~123~~ to raise only one corner of it.
Nothing," continued the doctor, "has stinted the growth and hindered the improvement of sound
learning more than a superstitious reverence for the ancients; by which it is presumed that
their works form the summit of all learning, and that nothing can be added to their discoveries.
Under this absurd and ridiculous prejudice, all the universities of Europe have laboured for
many years, and are only just beginning to see their error, by the encouragement of natural
philosophy. Experimental learning is the only mode by which the juvenile mind should be trained
and exercised, in order to bring all its faculties to their proper action: instead of being
involved in the mists of antiquity." Can it be possible, thought I, this is the person of whom
my friend Tom gave such a curious account? Can this be the man who is described as a being
always buried in abstracted thoughtfulness on the architer cural remains of antiquity, whose
opinions are said never to harmonize with those of other heads of colleges; who is described
as eccentric, because he has a singular veneration for truth, and an utter abhorrence of the
dogmas of scholastic prejudice 1 There are some few characters in the most elevated situations
of life, who possess the amiable secret of attaching every one to them who have the honour
of being admitted into their presence, without losing one particle of dignity, by their courteous
manner. This agreeable qualification the doctor appeared to possess in an eminent degree. I
had not been five minutes in his company before I felt as perfectly unembarrassed as if I had
known him intimately for twelve months. It could not be the result of confidence on my part,
for no poor fellow ever felt more abashed upon a first entrance; and must therefore only be
attributable to that indescribable condescension of easy intercourse which is the sure characteristic
of a superior mind.

~124~~ After inquiring who was to be my tutor, and finding I was not yet fixed in that particular,
I was requested to construe one of the easiest passages in the Æneid; my next task was to read
a few paragraphs of monkish Latin from a little white book, which I found contained the university
statutes: having acquitted myself in this to the apparent satisfaction of the doctor, he next
proceeded to give me his advice upon my future conduct and pursuits in the university; remarked
that his old friend, my father, could not have selected a more unfortunate person to usher
me into notice: that his habits were those of a recluse, and his associations confined almost
within the walls of his own college; but that his good wishes for the son of an old friend
and schoolfellow would, on this occasion, induce him to present me, in person, to the principal
of Brazennose, of whom he took occasion to speak in the highest possible terms. Having ordered
me a sandwich and a glass of wine for my refreshment, he left me to adjust his dress, preparatory
to our visit to the dignitary. During his absence I employed the interval in amusing myself
with a small octavo volume, entitled the "Oxford Spy:" the singular coincidence of the following
extract according so completely with the previous remarks of the doctor, induced me to believe
it was his production; but in this suspicion, I have since been informed, I was in error, the
work being written by Shergold Boone, Esq. a young member of the university.

          "Thus I remember, ere these scenes I saw,
          But hope had drawn them, such as hope will draw,
          A shrewd old man, on Isis' margin bred,
          Smiled at my warmth, and shook his wig, and said:
          'Youth will be sanguine, but before you go,
          Learn these plain rules, and treasure, when you know.
          Wisdom is innate in the gown and band;
          Their wearers are the wisest of the land.

~125~~

          Science, except in Oxford, is a dream;
          In all things heads of houses are supreme {9}
          Proctors are perfect whosoe'er they be;
          Logic is reason in epitome:
          Examiners, like kings, can do no wrong;
          All modern learning is not worth a song:
          Passive obedience is the rule of right;
          To argue or oppose is treason quite:{10}
          Mere common sense would make the system fall:
          Things are worth nothing; words are all in all."

On his return, the ancient glanced at the work I had been reading, and observing the passage
I have just quoted, continued his remarks upon the discipline of the schools.--"In the new
formed system of which we boast," said the master, "the philosophy which has enlightened the
world is omitted or passed over in a superficial way, and the student is exercised in narrow
and contracted rounds of education, in which his whole labour is consumed, and his whole time
employed, with little improvement or useful knowledge. He has neither time nor inclination
to attend the public lectures in the several departments of philosophy; nor is he qualified
for that attendance. All that he does, or is required to do, is to prepare himself to pass
through these contracted rounds; to write a theme, or point an epigram; but when he enters
upon life, action, or profession, both the little go, and the great go, he will find to be
a by go; for he will find that he has gone by the best part of useful and substantial learning;

     9 Know all men by these presents, that children in the uni-
     versities eat pap and go in leading strings till they are
     fourscore. --Terro Filius.

     10  In a work quaintly entitled "Phantasm of an University,"
     there occurs this sweeping paragraph, written in the true
     spirit of radical reform: "Great advantages might be
     obtained by gradually transforming Christ Church into a
     college of civil polity and languages; Magdalen, Queen's,
     University, into colleges of moral philosophy; New and
     Trinity into colleges of fine arts; and the five halls into
     colleges of agriculture and manufactures."

126~~ or that it has gone by him: to recover which he must repair from this famous seat of
learning to the institutions of the metropolis, or in the provincial towns. I have just given
you these hints, that you may escape the errors of our system, and be enabled to avoid the
pomp of learning which is without the power, and acquire the power of knowledge without the
pomp." Here ended the lecture, and my venerable conductor and myself made the best of our way
to pay our respects to the principal of my future residence.

Arrived here--the principal, a man of great dignity, received us with all due form, and appeared
exceedingly pleased with the visit of my conductor; my introduction was much improved by a
letter from the head master of Eton, who, I have no doubt, said more in my favour than I deserved.
The appointment of a tutor was the next step, and for this purpose I was introduced to Mr.
Jay, a smart-looking little man, very polite and very portly, with whom I retired to display
my proficiency in classical knowledge, by a repetition of nearly the same passages in Homer
and Virgil I had construed previously with the learned doctor; the next arrangement was the
sending for a tailor, who quickly produced my academical robes and cap, in the which, I must
confess, I at first felt rather awkward. I was now hurried to the vice-chancellor's house adjoining
Pembroke college, where I had the honour of a presentation to that dignitary; a mild-looking
man of small stature, with the most affable and graceful manners, dignified, and yet free from
the slightest tinge of hauteur. His reception of my tutor was friendly and unembarrassing;
his inquiries relative to myself directed solely to my proficiency in the classics, of which
I had again to give some specimens; I was then directed to subscribe my name in a large folio
album, which proved to contain the thirty-nine articles, not one ~127~~ sentence of which I
had ever read; but it was too late for hesitation, and I remembered Tom Echo had informed me
I should have to attest to a great deal of nonsense, which no one ever took the pains to understand.
The remainder of this formal initiation was soon despatched: I separately abjured the damnable
doctrines of the pope, swore allegiance to the king, and vowed to preserve the statutes and
privileges of the society I was then admitted into; paid my appointed fees, made my bow to
the vice-chancellor, and now concluded that the ceremony of the togati was all over: in this,
however, I was mistaken; my tutor requesting some conference with me at his rooms, thither
we proceeded, and arranged the plan of my future studies; then followed a few general hints
relative to conduct, the most important of which was my obeisance to the dignitaries, by capping{11}
whenever I met them; the importance of a strict attendance to the lectures of logic, mathematics,
and divinity, to the certain number of twenty in each term; a regular list of the tradesmen
whom I was requested to patronize; and, lastly, the entry of my name upon the college books
and payment of the necessary caution money.{12} Entering keeps one term; but as rooms were
vacant, I was fortunate in obtaining an immediate appointment. As the day was now far advanced,
I deemed it better to return to my inn and dress for the dinner party at Christ Church.

     11   Capping--by the students and under graduates is touching
     the cap to the vice-chancollor, proctors, fellows, &c. when
     passing. At Christ Church tradesmen and servants must walk
     bareheaded through the quadrangle when the dean, canons,
     censors, or tutors are present. At Pembroke this order is
     rigidly enforced, even in wet weather. At Brazennose neither
     servants nor tradesmen connected with the college are
     allowed to enter it otherwise. It is not long since a
     certain bookseller was discommoned for wearing his hat in B-
     n-e quadrangle, and literally ruined in consequence.

     12  Caution money--a sum of money deposited in the hands of
     the treasurer or bursar by every member on his name being
     entered upon the college books, as a security for the
     payment of all bills and expenses contracted by him within
     the walls of the college. This money is returned when the
     party takes his degree or name off the books; and no man can
     do either of these without receipts in full from the butler,
     manciple, and cook of their respective colleges.

~128~~

~129~~     Architectural Reminiscences--Descriptive Remarks--Similitude
     between the Characters of Cardinal Wolsey and Napoleon.

It was past five o'clock when I arrived before the majestic towers of Christ Church.--The retiring
sun brightening the horizon with streaks of gold at parting, shed a rich glow over the scene
that could not fail to rivet my attention to the spot. Not all the fatigues of the day, nor
the peculiarities of my new situation, had, in the least, abated my admiration of architectural
beauties. The noble octagonal tower in the enriched Gothic style, rising like a colossal ~130~~
monument of art among the varied groups of spires, domes, and turrets, which from a distance
impress the traveller with favourable ideas of the magnificence of Oxford, first attracted
my notice, and recalled to my memory two names that to me appear to be nearly associated (by
comparison) with each other, Wolsey and Napoleon; both gifted by nature with almost all the
brightest qualifications of great minds; both arriving at the highest point of human grandeur
from the most humble situations; equally the patrons of learning, science, and the arts; and
both equally unfortunate, the victims of ambition: both persecuted exiles; yet, further I may
add, that both have left behind them a fame which brightens with increasing years, and must
continue to do as every passing day removes the mist of prejudice from the eyes of man. Such
were the thoughts that rushed upon my mind as I stood gazing on the splendid fabric before
me, from the western side of St. Aidates, unheedful of the merry laughter-loving group of students
and under-graduates, who, lounging under the vaulted gateway, were amusing themselves at my
expense in quizzing a freshman in the act of lionising. The tower contains the celebrated Magnus
Thomas, recast from the great bell of Osney abbey, by whose deep note at the hour of nine in
the evening the students are summoned to their respective colleges. The upper part of the tower
displays in the bracketed canopies and carved enrichments the skilful hand of Sir Christopher
Wren, whose fame was much enhanced by the erection of the gorgeous turrets which project on
each side of the gateway.{1} Not caring to endure a closer attack of the togati, who had now
approached me, I crossed and entered the great quadrangle, or, according to Oxford phraseology,
Tom Quad. The irregular nature of the buildings here by no means assimilate with the elegance
of the exterior entrance.

     1 It was here, in Lord Orford's opinion, that he "caught the
     graces of the true Gothic taste."

~131~~ The eastern, northern, and part of the southern sides of the quadrangle are, I have
been since informed, inhabited by the dean and canons; the western by students. The broad terrace
in front of the buildings, the extent of the arena, and the circular basin of water in the
centre, render this an agreeable promenade.--I had almost forgotten the deity of the place
(I hope not symbolical), a leaden Mercury{2}; the gift of Dr. John Radcliffe, which rises from
the centre of the basin, on the spot where once stood the sacred cross of St. Frideswide, and
the pulpit of the reformer, Wickliffe.

     2 Since pulled down and destroyed.

THE DINNER PARTY.

On the western side of Tom Quad, up one flight of stairs, by the porter's aid I discovered
the battered oaken door which led to the larium of my friend Echo: that this venerable bulwark
had sustained many a brave attack from besiegers was visible in the numerous bruises and imprints
of hammers, crowbars, and other weapons, which had covered its surface with many an indented
scar. The utmost caution was apparent in the wary scout,{1}

     1 A Scout, at Christ Church, performs the same duties for
     ten or twelve students as a butler and valet in a
     gentleman's family. There are no women bedmakers at any
     college except Christ Church, that duty being performed by
     the scout.

~133~~ who admitted me; a necessary precaution, as I afterwards found, to prevent the prying
eye of some inquisitive domine, whose nose has a sort of instinctive attraction in the discovery
of smuggled dinners.{2}

Within I found assembled half a dozen good-humoured faces, all young, and all evidently partaking
of the high flow of spirits and animated vivacity of the generous hearted Tom Echo. A college
introduction is one of little ceremony, the surname alone being used,--a practice, which, to
escape quizzing, must also be followed on your card. "Here, old fellows," said Tom, taking
me by the hand, and leading me forwards to his companions, "allow me to introduce an ex{3}-college
man,--Blackmantle of Brazennose, a freshman{4} and an Etonian: so, lay to him, boys; he's just
broke loose from the Land of Sheepishness,{5} passed Pupils Straits{6} and the Isle of Matriculation{7}
to follow Dads Will,{8} in the Port of Stuffs{9}; from which, if he can steer clear of the
Fields of Temptation{10}

     2  Smuggled dinners are private parties in a student's room,
     when the dinner is brought into college from a tavern:
     various are the ingenious stratagems of the togati to elude
     the vigilance of the authorities: trunks, packing-boxes,
     violoncello-cases, and hampers are not unfrequently directed
     as if from a waggon or coach-office, and brought into
     college on the shoulders of some porter. Tin cans of soup
     are drawn up by means of a string from the back windows in
     the adjoining street. It is not long since Mr. C- of Christ
     Church was expelled for having a dinner smuggled into
     college precisely in the manner adopted by Tom Echo.

     3  A University man who is visiting in a college of which he
     is

     not a member.

     4  The usual phrase for initiating a freshman on his first
     appearance in a party or frisk.

     5  Land of Sheepishness--School-boy's bondage.

     6 Pupil's Straits--Interval between restraint and liberty.

     7  Isle of Matriculation--First entrance into the University.

     8  Dad's Will--Parental authority.

     9  Port for Stay's--Assumption of commoner's gown.

     10  Fields of Temptation--The attractions held out to him.

~134~~ he hopes to make the Land of Promise,{11} anchor his bark in the Isthmus of Grace,{12}
and lay up snugly for life on the Land of Incumbents."{13} "For heaven's sake, Tom," said I,"
speak in some intelligible language; it's hardly fair to fire off your battery of Oxonian wit
upon a poor freshman at first sight." At this moment a rap at the oak announced an addition
to our party, and in bounded that light-hearted child of whim, Horace Eglantine:--"What, Blackmantle
here? Why then, Tom, we can form as complete a trio as ever got bosky{14} with bishop{15} in
the province of Bacchus,{16}! Why, what a plague, my old fellow, has given you that rueful-looking
countenance? I am sure you was not plucked upon Maro Common or Homer Downs{17} in passing examination
with the big wig this morning; or has Tom been frisking{18} you already with some of his jokes
about the straits of independency{19}; the waste of ready{20}; the dynasty of Venus,{21} or
the quicksands of rustication{22}.

     11  Land of Promise--The fair expectations of a steady novice
     in Oxford.

     12  Isthmus of Grace--Obtainment of the grace of one's
     college.

     13  Land of Incumbents--Good livings.

     14  Bosky is the term used in Oxford to express the style of
     being "half seas over."

     15  Bishop--A good orthodox mead composed of port wine and
     roasted oranges or lemons.

     16  Province of Bacchus--Inebriety.

     17  Maro Common and Homer Downs allude to the Æneid of
     Virgil and the Iliad of Homer--two books chiefly studied for
     the little-go or responsions.

     18 Frisking--Hoaxing.

     19  Straits of Independency--Frontiers of extravagance.

     20   Waste of Ready, including in it Hoyle's Dominions--
     Course of gambling, including Loo tables.

     21  Dynasty of Venus--Indiscriminate love and misguided
     affections.

     22  Quicksands of Rustication--On which our hero may at any
     time run foul when inclined to visit a new county.

~135~~ Cheer up, old fellow! you are not half way through the ceremony of initiation yet. We
must brighten up that solemn phiz of yours, and give you a lesson or two on college principles?
If I had been thrown upon some newly-discovered country, among a race of wild Indians, I could
not have been more perplexed and confounded than I now felt in endeavouring to rally, and appear
to comprehend this peculiar phraseology.

A conversation now ensuing between a gentleman commoner, whom the party designated Pontius
Pilate{23} and Tom Echo, relative to the comparative merits of their hunters, afforded me an
opportunity of surveying the larium of my friend; the entrance to which was through a short
passage, that served the varied purposes of an ante-room or vestibule, and a scout's pantry
and boot-closet. On the right was the sleeping-room, and at the foot of a neat French bed I
could perceive the wine bin, surrounded by a regiment of dead men{24} who had, no doubt, departed
this life like heroes in some battle of Bacchanalian sculls. The principal chamber, the very
penetrale of the Muses, was about six yards square, and low, with a rich carved oaken wainscoting,
reaching to the ceiling; the monastic gloom being materially increased by two narrow loopholes,
intended for windows, but scarcely yielding sufficient light to enable the student to read
his Scapula or Lexicon{25} with the advantage of a meridian sun: the fire-place was immensely
wide, emblematical, no doubt, of the capacious stomachs of the good fathers and fellows, the
ancient inhabitants of this sanctum; but the most singularly-striking characteristic was the
modern decorations, introduced by the present occupant.

     23  A quaint cognomen applied to him from the rapidity with
     which he boasted of repeating the Nicene Creed,--i.e.
     offering a bet that no would give any man as far as "Pontius
     Pilate," and beat him before he got to the "resurrection of
     the dead."

     24  Dead Men--Empty bottles.

     25  Scapula, Hederic, and Lexicon, the principal
     Dictionaries in use for studying Greek.

~136~~ Over the fire-place hung a caricature portrait of a well-known Bachelor of Arts, drinking
at the Pierian spring, versus gulping down the contents of a Pembroke overman,{26} sketched
by the facetious pencil of the humorist, Rowlandson.

ECCÈ SIGNUM.

I could not help laughing to observe on the one side of this jolly personage a portrait of
the little female Giovanni Vestris, under which some wag had inscribed, "A Mistress of Hearts,"
and on the other a full-length of Jackson the pugilist, with this motto--"A striking likeness
of a fancy lecturer."

     26 An Herman--At Pembroke, a large silver tankard, holding
     two quarts and half a pint, so called from the donor, Mr.
     George Overman. The late John Hudson, the college tonsor
     and common room man,{*} was famous for having several
     times, for trifling wagers, drank a full overman of strong
     beer off at a draught. A Tun, another vessel in use at
     Pembroke, is a half pint silver cup. A Whistler, a silver
     pint tankard also in use there, was the gift of Mr. Anthony
     Whistler, a cotemporary with Shenstone.

     * Common room man, a servant who is entirely employed in
     attending upon the members of the common room.

     Junior common room, a room in every college, except Christ
     Church, set apart for the junior members to drink wine in
     and read the newspapers.

     N.B. There is but one common room at Christ Church; none but
     masters of arts and noblemen can be members of it,--the
     latter but seldom attend. The last who attended was the late
     Duke of Dorset. All common rooms are regularly furnished
     with newspapers and magazines.

     Curator of the common rooms.-A senior master of arts, who
     buys the wine and inspects the accounts.

~137~~ In the centre of the opposite side hung the portrait of an old scout, formerly of Brazennose,
whose head now forms the admission ticket to the college club. Right and left were disposed
the plaster busts of Aristotle and Cicero; the former noseless, and the latter with his eyes
painted black, and a huge pair of mustachios annexed. A few volumes of the Latin and Greek
classics were thrown into a heap in one corner of the room, while numerous modern sporting
publications usurped their places on the book shelves, richly gilt and bound in calf, but not
lettered. The hunting cap, whip, and red coat were hung up like a trophy between two foxes'
tails, which served the purpose of bell pulls. At this moment, my topographical observations
were disturbed by the arrival of the scout with candles, and two strange-looking fellows in
smock frocks, bringing in, as I supposed, a piano forte, but which, upon being placed on the
table, proved to be a mere case: the top being taken off, the sides and ends let down in opposite
directions, and the cloth pulled out straight, displayed an elegant dinner, smoking hot, and
arranged in as much form as if the college butler had superintended the feast. "Come, old fellow,"
said Tom, "turn to--no ceremony. I hope, Jem," addressing his scout, "you took care that no
~138~~ college telegraph{27} was at work while you were smuggling the dinner in." "I made certain
sure of that, sir," said Jem; "for I placed Captain Cook{28} sentinel at one corner of the
quadrangle, and old Brady at the other, with directions to whistle, as a signal, if they saw
any of the dons upon the look out."

Finding we were not likely to be interrupted by the domine, Tom took the chair. The fellows
in the smock frocks threw off their disguises, and proved to be two genteelly dressed waiters
from one of the inns. "Close the oak, Jem," said Horace Eglantine, "and take care no one knocks
in{29} before we have knocked down the contents of your master's musical melange." "Punning
as usual, Eglantine," said the Honourable Mr. Sparkle, a gentleman commoner. "Yes; and pun-ishing
too, old fellow!" said Horace. "Where's the cold tankard,{30} Echo?

     27  A college telegraph--A servant of a college, who carries
     an account of every trifling offence committed, either by
     gentlemen or servants, to the college officers.

     28 Well-known characters in Christ Church.

     29 Knocking in--Going into college after half-past ten at
     night. The names of the gentlemen who knock in are entered
     by the porter in a book kept for that purpose, and the next
     morning it is carried to the dean and censors, who generally
     call upon the parties so offending to account for being out
     of college at so late an hour. A frequent recurrence of this
     practice will sometimes draw from the dean a very severe
     reprimand.

     Knocking in money--Fines levied for knocking into college at
     improper hours: the first fine is fixed at half-past ten,
     and increased every half hour afterwards. These fines are
     entered on the batter book, and charged among the battels
     and decrements,* a portion of which is paid to the porter
     quarterly, for being knocked up.

     30  Cold tankard--A summer beverage, used at dinner, made of
     brandy, cider, or perry, lemons cut in slices, cold water,
     sugar, nutmeg, cinnamon, and the herbs balm and burridge.
     Sometimes sherry or port wine is substituted for cider. The
     tankard is put into a pitcher, which is iced in a tub,
     procured from the confectioners.

     * Decrements.--The use of knives, folks, spoons, and other
     necessaries, with the firing, &c. for the hall and chapel.

~139~~ We must give our old con, Blackmantle, a warm reception." "Sure, that's a Paddyism"{31}
said a young Irish student. "Nothing of the sort," replied Horace: "are we not all here the
sons of Isis (Ices)? and tell me where will you find a group of warmer hearted souls?" "Bravo!
bravo!" shouted the party. "That fellow Eglantine will create another Pun-ic war," said Sparkle.
"I move that we have him crossed in the buttery{32} for making us laugh during dinner, to the
great injury of our digestive organs, and the danger of suffocation." "What! deprive an Englishman
of his right to battel{33}" said Echo: "No; I would sooner inflict the orthodox fine of a double
bumper of bishop." "Bravo!" said Horace: "then I plead guilty, and swallow the imposition."
"I'll thank you for a cut out of the back of that lion,"{34} tittered a man opposite. With
all the natural timidity of the hare whom he thus particularised, I was proceeding to help
him, when Echo inquired if he should send me the breast of a swiss {35} and the facetious Eglantine,
to increase my confusion, requested to be allowed to cut me a slice off the wing of a wool
bird.{36}

     31 A Paddyism is called in this university a "Thorpism" from
     Mr. Thorp, formerly a hosier of some note in the city. He
     was famous for making blunders and coining new words, was
     very fond of making long speeches, and when upon the toe,
     never failed to convulse his hearers with laughter.

     32 Crossed in the buttery--not allowed to battel, a
     punishment for missing lecture. By being frequently crossed,
     a man will lose his term.

     33 Battels--Bread, butter, cheese, salt, eggs, &c.

     34 A lion--a hare.

     35 Siciss--a pheasant.

     36 Wing of a wool bird--Shoulder of lamb.

~140~~ To have remonstrated against this species of persecution would, I knew, only increase
my difficulties; summoning, therefore, all the gaiety I was master of to my aid, I appeared
to participate in the joke, like many a modern roué, laughing in unison without comprehending
the essence of the whim, merely because it was the fashion. What a helpless race, old father
Etona, are thine (thought I), when first they assume the Oxford man; spite of thy fostering
care and classic skill, thy offspring are here little better than cawkers{37} or wild Indians.
"Is there no glossary of university wit," said I, "to be purchased here, by which the fresh
may be instructed in the art of conversation; no Lexicon Balatronicum of college eloquence,
by which the ignorant may be enlightened?" "Plenty, old fellow," said Echo: "old Grose is exploded;
but, never fear, I will introduce you to the Dictionnaire Universel,{38} which may always be
consulted, at our old grandmammas' in St. Clement's, or Eglantine can introduce you at Vincent's,{39}
where better known as the poor curate of H----, crossed the channel.

     37  Cawker--an Eton phrase for a stranger or novice.

     38  Dictionnaire Universel--a standing toast in the common
     room at-----College.

     The origin of the toast is as follows: When Buonaparte was
     at Elba, Dr. E-, one of the wealthy senior Fellows of ----
     College.

Soon after his arrival at Paris, as he was walking through the streets of that city, he was
accosted by an elegantly dressed Cyprian, to whom he made a profound bow, and told her (in
English), that he was not sufficiently acquainted with the French language to comprehend what
she had said to him, expressing his regret that he had not his French and English dictionary
with him. Scarcely had he pronounced the word dictionary, when the lady, by a most astonishing
display, which in England would have disgraced the lowest of the frail sisterhood, exclaimed,
"Behold the Dictionnaire Universel, which has been opened by the learned of all nations."{39}
Dr. E--, on his return from France, related this anecdote in the common room at ---------,
and the Dictionnaire universel has ever since been a standing toast there.

     39  A well known respectable bookseller near Brazennose, who
     has published a whimsical trifle under the title of "Oxford
     in Epitome" very serviceable to freshmen. You may purchase
     "Oxford in Epitome," with a Key accompaniment explaining the
     whole art and mystery of the finished style.

~141~~ After a dissertation upon new college puddings,{40} rather a choice dish, an elegant
dessert and ices was introduced from Jubbers.{41} The glass now circulated freely, and the
open-hearted mirth of my companions gave me a tolerable idea of many of the leading eccentricities
of a collegian's life. The Oxford toast, the college divinity, was, I found, a Miss W-, whose
father is a wealthy horse-dealer, and whom all agreed was a very amiable and beautiful girl.
I discovered that Sadler, Randal, and Crabbe were rum ones for prime hacks--that the Esculapii
dii of the university, the demi-gods of medicine and surgery, were Messrs. Wall and Tuckwell--that
all proctors were tyrants, and their men savage bull dogs--that good wine was seldom to be
bought in Oxford by students--and pretty girls were always to be met at Bagley Wood--that rowing
a fellow{42} was considered good sport, and an idle master{43} a jolly dog--that all tradesmen
were duns, and all gownsmen suffering innocents--and lastly.

     40  New College puddings--a favourite dish with freshmen,
     made of grated biscuit, eggs, suet, moist sugar, currants
     and lemon-peel, rolled into balls of an oblong shape, fried
     in boiling fat, and moistened with brandy.

     41  A celebrated Oxford pastry-cook.

     42  Rowing a fellow--going with a party in the dead of the
     night to a man's room, nailing or screwing his oak up, so as
     it cannot be opened on the inside, knocking at his door,
     calling out fire, and when he comes to the door, burning a
     quantity of shavings, taken from halfpenny faggots dipped in
     oil from the staircase lamps, so as to impress him with an
     idea that the staircase, in which his rooms are, is on fire.
     And when he is frightened almost out of his senses, setting
     up a most hideous horse-laugh and running away. This joke
     is practised chiefly upon quiet timid men.

     43 An idle master--a Master of Arts on the foundation, who
     does not take pupils.

~142~~

I was informed that a freshman was a scamp without seasoning--and a fellow of no spirit till
he had been pulled up before the big wig and suffered imposition{44} fine, and rustication.{45}

It was now half an hour since old Magnus Thomas had tolled his heavy note, most of the party
were a little cut,{46} and the salt pits of attic wit had long since been drained to the very
bottom--Sparkle proposed an adjournment to the Temple of Bacchus,{47} while Echo and a man
of Trinity set forth for the plains of Betteris.{48} Pleading the fatigues of the day, and
promising to attend a spread{49} on the morrow to be given by Horace Eglantine, I was permitted
to depart to my inn, having first received a caution from Echo to steer clear of the Don Peninsula{50}
and the seat of magistracy.{51}

On regaining my inn, I was not a little surprised to hear the smirking barmaid announce me
by my christian and surname, directing the waiter to place candles for Mr. Bernard Blackmantle
in the sanctum. How the deuce, thought I, have these people discovered my family nomenclature,
or are we here under the same system of espionage as the puerile inhabitants of France, where
every hotel-keeper, waiter, and servant, down to the very shoe-black, is a spy upon your actions,
and a creature in the pay of the police{52} "Pray, waiter," said I, "why is this snug little
larium designated the sanctum?"

     44 Imposition--translations set by the Principal for absence
     and other errors.

     45 Rustication is the term applied to temporary dismissal
     for non-observance of college discipline.

     46 A little cut--half seas over.

     47  Temple of Bacchus--some favourite inn.

     48  Plains of Betteris--the diversion of billiards.

     49  A spread--a wine party.

     50  The Don Peninsula--the range of all who wear long black
     hanging sleeves, and bear the name of Domini.

     51  Seat of magistracy--proctor's authority.

     52  The tact of the Oxford tradesmen in this particular is
     very ingenious.--The strength of a man's account is always
     regulated by the report they receive on his entering, from
     some college friend, respecting the wealth of his relations,
     or the weight of his expectancies.

~143~~

"Because it's extra-proctorial, sir: none of the town raff are ever admitted into it, and the
marshal and his bull dogs never think of intruding here. With your leave, sir, I'll send in
master--he will explain things better; and mayhap, sir, as you are fresh, he may give you a
little useful information." "Do so,--send me in a bottle of old Madeira and two glasses, and
tell your master I shall be happy to see him." In a few moments I was honoured with the company
of mine host of the Mitre, who, to do him justice, was a more humorous fellow than I had anticipated.
Not quite so ceremonious as he of the Christopher at Eton, or the superlative of a Bond-street
restaurateur; but with an unembarrassed roughness, yet respectful demeanour, that partook more
of the sturdy English farmer, or an old weather-beaten sportsman, than the picture I had figured
to myself of the polished landlord of the principal inn in the sacred city of learning. We
are too much the creatures of prejudice in this life, and first impressions are not unfrequently
the first faults which we unthinkingly commit against the reputation of a new acquaintance.
Master Peake was, I discovered, a fellow of infinite jest, an old fox-hunter, and a true sportsman;
and supposing me, from my introduction by Tom Echo to his house, to be as fond of a good horse,
a hard run, and a black bottle, as my friend, he had eagerly sought an opportunity for this
early introduction. "No man in the country, sir," said Peake, "can boast of a better horse
or a better wife: I always leave the management of the bishop's cap to the petticoat; for look
ye, sir, gown against gown is the true orthodox system, I believe.--When I kept the Blue Pig{53}
by the Town Hall, the big wigs used to grunt a little now and then about the gemmen of the
university getting bosky in a pig-sty; so, egad, I thought I would fix them at last, and removed
here; for I knew it would be deemed sacrilegious to attack the mitre, or hazard a pun upon
the head of the church.

      53 The Blue Boar, since shut up.

~144~~ If ever you should be tiled up in Eager heaven,{54} there's not a kinder hearted soul
in Christendom than Mrs. Peake: Dr. Wall says that he thinks she has saved more gentlemen's
lives in this university by good nursing and sending them niceties, than all the material medicals
put together. You'll excuse me, sir, but as you are fresh, take care to avoid the gulls{55};
they fly about here in large flocks, I assure you, and do no little mischief at times." "I
never understood that gulls were birds of prey," said I.--"Only in Oxford, sir; and here, I
assure you, they bite like hawks, and pick many a poor young gentleman as bare before his three
years are expired, as the crows would a dead sheep upon a common. Every thing depends upon
your obtaining an honest scout, and that's a sort of haro ravis (I think they call the bird)
here." Suppressing my laughter at my host's Latinity, I thought this a fair opportunity to
make some inquiries relative to this important officer in a college establishment.

"I suppose you know most of these ambassadors of the togati belonging to the different colleges'?"
"I think I do, sir," said Peake, "if you mean the scouts; but I never heard them called by
that name before. If you are of Christ Church, I should recommend Dick Cook, or, as he is generally
called, Gentleman Cook, as the most finished, spritely, honest fellow of the whole. Dick's
a trump, and no telegraph,--up to every frisk, and down to every move of the domini, thorough
bred, and no want of courage?"

     54  Æager haven--laid up in the depot of invalids.

     55  Gulls--knowing ones who are always on the look out for
     freshmen.

~145~~ "But not having the honour of being entered there, I cannot avail myself of Dick's services:
pray tell me, who is there at Brazennose that a young fellow can make a confidant of?" "Why,
the very best old fellow in the world,--nothing like him in Oxford,--rather aged, to be sure,
but a good one to go, and a rum one to look at;--I have known Mark Supple these fifty years,
and never heard a gentleman give him a bad word: shall I send for him, sir? he's the very man
to put you up to a thing or two, and finish you off in prime style." "In the morning, I'll
see him, and if he answers your recommendation, engage with him: "for, thought I, such a man
will be very essential, if it is only to act as interpreter to a young novice like myself.

The conversation now turned to sporting varieties, by which I discovered mine host was a leading
character in the neighbouring hunts; knew every sportsman in the field, and in the course of
half an hour, carried me over Godrington's manors, Moystoris district, and Somerset range,{56}
taking many a bold leap in his progress, and never losing sight of the dogs. "We shall try
your mettle, sir," said he, "if we catch you out for a day's sport; and if you are not quite
mounted at present to your mind, I have always a spare nag in the stable for the use of a freshman."

     56 The three packs of hounds contiguous to Oxford.

Though I did not relish the concluding appellation, coming from a tavern-keeper, I could not
help thanking Peake for his liberal offer; yet without any intention of risking my neck in
a steeple chase. The interview had, however, been productive of some amusement and considerable
information. The bottle was now nearly finished; filling my last glass, I drank success to
the Mitre, promised to patronise the landlord, praise the hostess, coquet with the little cherry-cheek,
chirping lass in the bar, and kiss as many of the chamber-maids as I could persuade to let
me. Wishing mine host a good night, and ringing for my bed-candle, I proceeded to put the last
part of my promise into immediate execution.

The next morning, early, while at breakfast, I received a visit from Mr. Mark Supple, the scout,
of whom mine host of the Mitre had on the preceding night spoken so highly. There was nothing
certainly very prepossessing in his exterior appearance; and if he had not previously been
eulogised as the most estimable of college servants, I should not have caught the impression
from a first glance. He was somewhere about sixty years of age, of diminutive stature and spare
habit, a lean brother with a scarlet countenance, impregnated with tints of many a varied hue,
in which however the richness of the ruby and the soft purple of the ultramarine evidently
predominated. His forehead was nearly flat; upon his eyebrows and over his os frontis and scalp,
a few straggling straight hairs were extended as an apology for a wig, but which was much more
like a discarded crow's nest turned upside down. Immense black bushy eyebrows overhung a pair
of the queerest looking oculars I had ever seen; below which sprung forth what had once been,
no doubt, a nose, and perhaps in youth an elegant feature; but, Heaven help the wearer! it
was now grown into such a strange form, and presented so many choice exuberances, that one
might have supposed it was the original Bardolph's, and charged with the additional sins of
every succeeding generation. The loss of his ~146~~ teeth had caused the other lip to retire
inwards, and consequently the lower one projected forth, supported by a huge chin, like the
basin or receiver round the crater of a volcano.

His costume was of a fashion admirably corresponding with his person. It might once have graced
a dean, or, perhaps, a bishop, but it was evident the present wearer was not by when the artiste
of the needle took his measure or instructions. Three men of Mark's bulk might very well have
been buttoned up in the upper habiliment; and as for the inexpressibles, they hung round his
ultimatum like the petticoat trowsers of a Dutch smuggler: then for the colour, it might once
have been sable or a clerical mixture; but what with the powder which the collar bore evidence
it had once been accustomed to, and the weather-beaten trials it had since undergone, it was
quite impossible to specify. The beaver was in excellent keeping, en suite, except, perhaps,
from the constant application of the hand to pay due respect to the dignitaries, it was here
and there enriched with some more shining qualities. I at first suspected this ancient visitor
was a hoax of my friend Tom Echo's, who had concerted the scheme with the landlord; but a little
conversation with the object of my surprise soon convinced me it was the genuine Mark Supple,
the true college scout, and no counterfeit.

"The welcome of Isis to you, sir," said the old man. "The domini of the bishops cap here gave
me a hint you wished to see me.--I have the honour to be Mark Supple, sir, senior scout of
Brazennose, and as well known to all the members of the university for the last fifty years,
as Magdalen bridge, or old Magnus Thomas. The first of your name, sir, I think, who have been
of Oxford--don't trace any of the Blackmantles here antecedent--turned over my list this morning
before I came--got them all arranged, sir, take notice, in chronological order, from the friars
of ~148~~ Oseny abbey down to the university of bucks of 1824--very entertaining, sir, take
notice--many a glorious name peeping out here and there--very happy to enrol the first of the
Blackmantles in my remembrancer, and hope to add M. A. and M. S. S. which signifies honour
to you, as master of arts, and glory to your humble servant, Mark Supple Scout--always put
my own initials against the gentleman's names whom I have attended, take notice." The singularity
of the ancient's climax amused me exceedingly--there was something truly original in the phrase:
the person and manners of the man were in perfect keeping. "You must have seen great changes
here, Mark," said I; "were you always of Brazennose?" "I was born of Christ Church, sir, take
notice, where my father was college barber, and my mother a bed-maker; but the students of
that period insisted upon it that I was so like to a certain old big wig, whose Christian name
was Mark, that I most censoriously obtained the appellation from at least a hundred godfathers,
to the no small annoyance of the dignitary, take notice. My first occupation, when a child,
was carrying billet doux from the students of Christ Church to the tradesmen's daughters of
Oxford, or the nuns of St. Clement's, where a less important personage might have excited suspicion
and lost his situation. From a college Mercury, I became a college devil, and was promoted
to the chief situation in glorio,{1} alias hell, where I continued for some time a shining
character, and sharpened the edge of many a cutting thing, take notice. Here, some wag having
a design upon my reputation, put a large piece of cobbler's wax into the dean's boots one morning,
which so irritated the big wig that I was instantly expelled college, discommoned, and blown
up at point non plus, take notice.

     1 Glorio.--A place in Christ Church called the scout's
     pantry, where the boots and shoes and knives are cleaned,
     and a small quantity of Geneva, or Bill Holland's double, is
     daily consumed during term time.

~149~~

Having saved a trifle, I now commenced stable-keeper, bought a few prime hacks, and mounted
some of the best tandem turn outs in Oxford, take notice: but not having wherewithal to stand
tick, and being much averse to dunning, I was soon sold up, and got a birth in Brazennose as
college scout, where I have now been upwards of forty years, take notice. No gentleman could
ever say old Mark Supple deceived him. I have run many risks for the gown; never cared for
the town; always stuck up for my college, and never telegraphed the big wigs in my life, take
notice."--"Is your name Blackmantle?" said a sharp-looking little fellow, in a grey frock livery,
advancing up to me with as much sang froid as if I had been one of the honest fraternity of
college servants. Being answered in the affirmative, and receiving at the same time a look
that convinced him I was not pleased with his boldness, he placed the following note in my
hand and retired.{2}

     2 The usual style of invitation to a college wine party or
     spread.

     The above is an exact copy of a note received from a man of
     Brazennose.

~159~~ Handing the note to old Mark--"Pray," said I, not a little confused by the elegance
of the composition, "is this the usual style of college invitations?" Mark mounted his spectacles,
and having deciphered the contents, assured me with great gravity that it was very polite indeed,
and considering where it came from, unusually civil.

Another specimen of college ceremony, thought I;--"But come, Mark, let us forth and survey
my rooms." We were soon within-side the gates of Brazennose; and Mark having obtained the key,
we proceeded to explore the forsaken chamber of the Muses.

Ascending a dark stone staircase till the oaken beams of the roof proclaimed we had reached
the domiciliary abode of genius, I found myself in the centre of my future habitation, an attic
on the third floor: I much doubt if poor Belzoni, when he discovered the Egyptian sepulchre,
could have exhibited more astonishment. The old bed-maker, and the scout of my predecessor,
had prepared the apartment for my reception by gutting it of every thing useful to the value
of a cloak pin: the former was engaged in sweeping up the dust, which, from the clouds that
surrounded us, would not appear to have been disturbed for six months before at least. I had
nearly broken my shins, on my first entrance, over the fire-shovel and bucket, and I was now
in more danger of being choked with filth. "Who inhabited this delightful place before, Mark?"
"A mad wag, but a generous gentleman, Sir, take notice, one Charles Rattle, Esq., who was expelled
college for smuggling, take notice: the proctor, with the town marshal and his bull dogs, detected
him and two others one night drawing up some fresh provision in the college plate-basket. Mr.
Rattle, in his fright, dropped the fair nun of St. Clement's plump upon the proctor, who could
not understand the joke; but, having recovered ~152~~ his legs, entered the college, and found
one of the fair sisters concealed in Mr. Rattle's room, take notice. In consequence he was
next day pulled up before the big wigs, when, refusing to make a suitable apology, he received
sentence of expulsion, take notice." "He must have been a genius," quoth I, "and a very eccentric
one too, from the relics he has left behind of his favourite propensities." In one corner of
the room lay deposited a heap of lumber, thrown together, as a printer would say, in pie, composed
of broken tables, broken bottles, trunks, noseless bellows, books of all descriptions, a pair
of muffles, and the cap of sacred academus with a hole through the crown (emblematical, I should
think, of the pericranium it had once covered), and stuck upon the leg of a broken chair. The
rats, those very agreeable visitors of ancient habitations, were seen scampering away upon
our entrance, and the ceiling was elegantly decorated with the smoke of a candle in a great
variety of ornamented designs, consisting of caricatures of dignitaries and the Christian names
of favourite damsels. There was poor Cicero, with a smashed crown, turned upside down in the
fire-place, and a map of Oxford hanging in tatters above it; a portrait of Tom Crib was in
the space adjoining the window, not one whole pane of which had survived the general wreck;
but what most puzzled me was the appearance of the cupboard door: the bottom hinge had given
way, and it hung suspended by one joint in an oblique direction, exhibiting, on an inside face,
a circle chalked for a target and perforated with numerous holes This door was in a right line
with the bedroom, and, when thrown open, covered a loop-hole of a window that looked across
the quadrangle directly into the principal's apartments.{1}

~153~~ It was in this way (as Mark informed me) my predecessor amused himself in a morning
by lying in bed and firing at the target, till, unhappily, on one occasion the ball passed
through a hole in the door, the loop-hole window, and, crossing the quadrangle, entered whizzing
past the dignitary's ear and that of his family who were at breakfast with him into the back
of the chair he had but a moment before providentially quitted to take a book from his library
shelves.1 The affair occasioned a strict search, and the door in question bore too strong an
evidence to escape detection; Rattle was rusticated for a term, but, returning the same singular
character, was always in some scrape or other till his final expulsion. Having given the necessary
orders for repairs, Mark made one of his best bows, and produced a long scroll of paper, on
which was written a list of necessaries?{2} "which," said the ancient, "take notice, every
gentleman provides on his taking possession of his rooms." "And every gentleman's scout claims
upon his leaving, take notice" said I. Mark bowed assent.

I had now both seen and heard enough of college comforts to wish myself safe back again at
Eton in the snug, clean, sanded dormitory of my old dame. Looking first at my purse and then
at the list of necessaries, I could not resist a sigh on perceiving my new guinea{3} to be
already in danger, that it would require some caution to steer clear of the forest of debt,{4}
and keep out of south jeopardy,{5} and some talent to gain the new settlements{6} or prevent
my being ultimately laid up in the river tick{7} condemned in the Vice-Chancellor's court,{8}
and consigned, for the benefit of the captors, to fort marshal.{9}

     1  The circumstance here alluded to actually occurred some
     time since, when G- C-n and Lord C-e nearly shot Dr.
     Capplestone of Oriel and his predecessor, Dr. Eveleigh: the
     former was expelled in consequence.

     2  A list of necessaries consists of all the necessary
     culinary articles, tea equipage, brooms, brushes, pails, &c.
     &c. &c.

     3  New guinea--First possession of income.

     4  Forest of debt--payment of debts.

     5 South jeopardy--terrors of insolvency.

     6  Next settlements--final reckoning.

     7  River tick--springing out of standing debts, which only==>

     8  Vice-Chancellor's court--creditor's last shift.

     9  Fort marshal--university marshal's post, charge themselves
     at the expiration of three years by leaving the lake of
     credit, and meandering through the haunts of a hundred
     creditors.

~154~~ "Rather romantic, but not elegant," said some voices at the door, which, on turning
my head, I discovered to be my two friends, Echo and Eglantine, who, suspecting the state of
the rooms, from the known character of the previous occupier, had followed me up stairs to
enjoy the pleasure of quizzing a novice. "A snug appointment this, old fellow," said Echo.
"Very airy and contemplative" rejoined Eglantine, pointing first to the broken window, and
after to the mutilated remains of books and furniture. "Quite the larium of a man of genius,"
continued the former, "and very fine scope for the exhibition of improved taste." "And an excellent
opportunity for raillery," quoth I. "Well, old fellow," said Tom, "I wish you safe through
dun territory{10} and the preserve of long bills{11}: if you are not pretty well blunted,{12}
the first start will try your wind." "Courage, Blackmantle," said Eglantine, "we must not have
you laid up here in the marshes of impediment{13} with all the horrors of east jeopardy,{14}
as if you was lost in the cave of antiquity{15}: rally, my old fellow, for the long hope,{16}shoot
past mounts

     10  Dun territory--circle of creditors to be paid.

     11 Preserve of long bills--stock of debts to be discharged.

     12 Blunted--London slang for plenty of money.

     13 Marshes of impediment--troublesome preparation for the
     schools.

     14  East jeopardy--terrors of anticipation.

     15  Cave of antiquity--depot of old authors.

     16  The long hope--Johnson defines "a Hope" to be any sloping
     plain between two ridges of mountains. Here it is the symbol
     of long expectations in studying for a degree.

~155~~ Aldrich and Euclid,{17} the Roman tumuli{18} and Point Failure{19} and then, having
gained Fount Stagira{20} pass easily through Littlego Vale,{21} reach the summit of the Pindaric
heights{22} and set yourself down easy in the temple of Bacchus{23} and the region of rejoicing"{24}
"Or if you should fall a sacrifice in the district of {sappers,{25} old fellow!" said Echo,
"or founder in Dodd's sound,{26} why, you can retreat to Cam Roads,{27} or lay up for life
in the Bay of Condolence."{28} "For heaven's sake, let us leave the Gulf of Misery," said I,
alluding to the state of my rooms, "and bend our course where some more amusing novelty presents
itself." "To Bagley wood," said Echo, "to break cover and introduce you to the Egyptians; only
I must give my scout directions first to see the old bookseller{29} and have my imposition{30}
ready for being absent from chapel this morning, or else I shall be favoured with another

     17  Mount Aldrich, mount Euclid--logic and mathematics.

     18  Tumuli raised by the Romans--difficulties offered by Livy
     and Tacitus in the studies for first class honours.

     19 Point Failure--catastrophe of plucking.

     20 Fount Stagira--fount named after the birth-place of Aris-
     totle.

     21  Littlego Vale--orderly step to the first examination.

     22 Pindaric heights--study of Pindar's odes.

     23  Temple of Bacchus--merry-making after getting a liceat.

     24 Region of rejoicing--joy attendant on success in the
     schools.

     25 District of sabers--track of those who sap at their quarto
     and folio volumes.

     26  Dodd's sound--where the candidate will have to
     acknowledge the receipt of a certificate empowering him to
     float down Bachelor Creek.

     27  Cam Roads--retreat to Cambridge by way of a change.

     28 Bay of Condolence--where we console our friends, if
     plucked, and left at a nonplus.

     29 A well-known bookseller in Oxford generally called
     imposition G-, from his preparing translations for the
     members of the university.

     30 Imposition--see prick bill.

~156~~ visit from the prick bill."{31} "Agreed," said Eglantine, "and Blackmantle and myself
will, in the meantime, visit Sadler, and engage a couple of his prime hacks to accompany you."

     31 Prick bills--at Christ Church, junior students who prick
     with a pin the names of those gentlemen who are at chapel.
     Immediately after the service, the bills, with the noblemen
     and gentlemen commoners' names, are taken to the dean; those
     with the students and commoners' names, to the acting censor
     for the week; and the bachelors' bills to the sub-dean, who
     generally inform the prick bills what impositions shall be
     set those gentlemen who absented themselves from chapel:
     these are written upon strips of paper and carried to the
     gentlemen by the prick bill's scouts.

     Copy of an original imposition.

     "Sp 259 particular M M C. P. B."--Signifies translate No. 259
     Spectator to the word "particular" by Monday morning at
     chapel time.--Prick bill.

THE EXCURSION TO BAGLEY WOOD.

     Oxford Scholars and Oxford Livery Men--How to insure a good
     Horse and prevent Accidents--Description of Bagley Wood--A
     Freshman breaking cover--Interview with the Egyptian--
     Secrets of Futurity unveiled--Abingdon Beauties--Singular
     Anecdote and History of Mother Goose.

~157~~ The ride to Bagley Wood introduced me to some new features of a college life, not the
least entertaining of which was the dialogue before starting between my friend Eglantine, the
livery-stable keeper, and his man, where we went to engage the horses.

Eglan. (to the ostler) Well, Dick, what sort of a stud, hey? any thing rum, a ginger or a miller,
three legs or five, got by Whirlwind out of Skyscraper? Come, fig out two lively ones.

Dick. I mun see measter first, zur, before I lets any gentleman take a nag out o' yard. It's
more as my place is worth to act otherwise.

Eglan. What coming Tip-street over us, hey, Dick? ~158~~ frisking the freshman here, old fellow?
(pointing to me). It won't do--no go, Dick--he's my friend, a cawker to be sure, but must not
stand Sam to an Oxford raff, or a Yorkshire Johnny Raw.

Dick. I axes pardon, zur. I didna mean any such thing, but ever since you rode the grey tit
last, she's never been out o' stall.

Eglan. Not surprised at that, Dick. Never crossed a greater slug in my life--She's only fit
to carry a dean or a bishop--No go in her.

Dick. No, zur, measter zays as how you took it all out on her.

Eglan. Why, I did give her a winder, Dick, to be sure, only one day's hunting, though, a good
hard run over Somerset range, not above sixty miles out and home.

Dick. Ay, I thought as how you'd been in some break-neck tumble-down country, zur, for Tit's
knuckels showed she'd had a somerset or two.

Eglan. Well, blister the mare, Dick! there's half a bull for your trouble: now put us on the
right scent for a good one: any thing young and fresh, sprightly and shewy?

Dick. Why, there be such a one to be zure, zur, but you munna split on me, or I shall get the
zack for telling on ye. If you'll sken yon stable at end o' the yard, there be two prime tits
just com'd in from Abingdon fair, thorough-bred and devils to go, but measter won't let 'em out.

Eglan. Won't he? here he comes, and we'll try what a little persuasion will do. (Enter Livery
Man.) Well, old fellow, I've brought you a new friend, Blackmantle of Brazennose: what sort
of praxis can you give us for a trot to Bagley Wood, a short ride for something shewy to lionise
a bit?

Livery M. Nothing new, sir, and you know all the stud pretty well (knowingly). Suppose you
try the grey mare you rode t'other day, and I'll find a quiet one for your friend.

~159~~ Eglan. If I do, I am a black horse. She's no paces, nothing but a shuffle, not a leg
to stand on.

Livery M. Every one as good as the principal of All-Souls. Not a better bred thing in Oxford,
and all horses here gallop by instinct, as every body knows, but they can't go for ever, and
when gentlemen ride steeple chases of sixty miles or more right a-head, they ought to find
their own horse-flesh.

Eglan. What coming crabb over us, old fellow, hey 1 Very well, I shall bolt and try Randall,
and that's all about it. Come along, Blackmantle.

My friend's threat of withdrawing his patronage had immediately the desired effect. Horace's
judgment in horse-flesh was universally admitted, and the knowing dealer, although he had suffered
in one instance by hard riding, yet deeply calculated on retrieving his loss by some unsuspecting
Freshman, or other university Nimrod in the circle of Eglantine's acquaintance. By this time
Echo had arrived, and we were soon mounted on the two fresh purchases which the honest Yorkshireman
had so disinterestedly pointed out; and which, to do him justice, deserved the eulogium he
had given us on their merits. One circumstance must not however be forgotten, which was the
following notice posted at the end of the yard. "To prevent accidents, gentlemen pay before
mounting." "How the deuce can this practice of paying beforehand prevent accidents?" said I.
"You're fresh, old fellow," said Echo, "or you'd understand after a man breaks his neck he
fears no duns. Now you know by accident what old Humanity there means."

Bagley is about two miles and a half from Oxford on the Abingdon road, an exceedingly pleasant
ride, leaving the sacred city and passing over the old bridge where formerly was situated the
study or observatory of the celebrated Friar Bacon. Not an object in the shape of a petticoat
escaped some raillery, and scarcely 160~~ a town raff but what met with a corresponding display
of university wit, and called forth many a cutting joke: the place itself is an extensive wood
on the summit of a hill, which commands a glorious panoramic view of Oxford and the surrounding
country richly diversified in hill and dale, and sacred spires shooting their varied forms
on high above the domes, and minarets, and towers of Rhedycina. This spot, the favourite haunt
of the Oxonians, is covered for many miles with the most luxuriant foliage, affording the cool
retreat, the love embowered shades, over which Prudence spreads the friendly veil. Here many
an amorous couple have in softest dalliance met, and sighed, and frolicked, free from suspicion's
eye beneath the broad umbrageous canopy of Nature; here too is the favourite retreat of the
devotees of Cypriani, the spicy grove of assignations where the velvet sleeves of the Proctor
never shake with terror in the wind, and the savage form of the university bull dog is unknown.

A party of wandering English Arabs had pitched their tents on the brow of the hill just under
the first cluster of trees, and materially increased the romantic appearance of the scene.
The group consisted of men, women, and children, a tilted cart with two or three asses, and
a lurcher who announced our approach. My companions were, I soon found, well known to the females,
who familiarly approached our party, while the male animals as condescendingly betook themselves
into the recesses of the wood. "Black Nan," said Echo, "and her daughter, the gypsy beauty,
the Bagley brunette."--"Shall I tell your honour's fortune?" said the elder of the two, approaching
me; while Eglantine, who had already dismounted and given his horse to one of the brown urchins
of the party, had encircled the waist of the younger sibyl, and was tickling her into a trot
in an opposite direction. "Ay do, Nan," ~161~~ said Echo, "cast his nativity, open the book
of fate, and tell the boy his future destiny." It would be the height of absurdity to repeat
half the nonsense this oracle of Bagley uttered relative to my future fortunes; but with the
cunning peculiar to her cast, she discovered I was fresh, and what tormented me more, (although
on her part it was no doubt accidental) alluded to an amour in which my heart was much interested
with a little divinity in the neighbourhood of Eton. This hint was sufficient to give Tom his
cue, and I was doomed to be pestered for the remainder of the day with questions and raillery
on my progress in the court of Love. On our quitting the old gypsy woman, a pair of buxom damsels
came in sight, advancing from the Abingdon road; they were no doubt like ourselves, I thought,
come to consult the oracle of Bagley, or, perhaps, were the daughters of some respectable farmer
who owned the adjoining land. All these doubts were, however, of short duration; for Tom Echo
no sooner caught sight of their faces, than away he bounded towards them like a young colt
in all the frolic of untamed playfulness, and before I could reach him, one of the ladies was
rolling on the green carpet of luxuriant Nature. In the deep bosom of Bagley Wood, impervious
to the eye of authority, many a sportive scene occurs which would alarm the ethics of the solemn
sages of the cloistered college. They were, I discovered, sisters, too early abandoned by an
unfeeling parent to poverty, and thus became an easy prey to the licentious and the giddy,
who, in the pursuit of pleasure, never contemplate the attendant misery which is sure to follow
the victim of seduction. There was something romantic in their story: they were daughters of
the celebrated Mother Goose, whose person must have been familiar to every Oxonian for the
last sixty years prior to her decease, which occurred but a short time since Of ~162~~ this
woman's history I have since gleaned some curious particulars, the most remarkable of which
(contained in the annexed note) have been authenticated by living witnesses.{1} Her portrait,
by a member of All Souls, is admirable, and is here faithfully copied.

     1 "Mother Goose," formerly a procuress, and one of the
     most abandoned of her profession. When from her advanced
     age, and the loss of her eye-sight, she could no longer
     obtain money by seducing females from the path of virtue,
     she married a man of the name of H., (commonly called
     Gentleman H.) and for years was led by him to the students'
     apartments in the different colleges with baskets of the
     choicest flowers. Her ancient, clean, and neat appearance,
     her singular address, and, above all, the circumstance of
     her being blind, never failed of procuring her at least ten
     times the price of her posy, and which was frequently
     doubled when she informed the young gentlemen of the
     generosity, benevolence, and charity of their grandfathers,
     fathers, or uncles whom she knew when they were at college.
     She had several illegitimate children, all females, and all
     were sacrificed by their unnatural mother, except one, who
     was taken away from her at a very tender age by the child's
     father's parents. When of age, this child inherited her
     father's property, and is now (I believe) the wife of an
     Irish nobleman, and to this time is unconscious that Mother
     Goose, of Oxford, gave her birth. The person who was
     instrumental in removing the child is still living in
     Oxford, and will testify to the authenticity of the fact
     here related. His present majesty never passed through
     Oxford without presenting Mother Goose with a donation, but
     of course without knowing her early history.

~163~~

Having, as Echo expressed it, now broke cover, and being advanced one step in the study of
the fathers, we prepared to quit the Abingdon fair and rural shades of Bagley on our return
to Oxford, something lighter in pocket, and a little too in morality. We raced the whole of
the distance home, to the great peril of several groups of town raff whom we passed in our
way. On our arrival my friends had each certain lectures to attend, or college duties to perform.
An idle Freshman, there was yet three hours good before the invitation to the spread, and as
kind fortune willed it to amuse the time, a packet arrived from Horatio Heartley. He had been
spending the winter in town with his aunt, Lady Mary Oldstyle, and had, with his usual tact,
been sketching the varied groups which form the circle of fashionable life. It was part of
the agreement between us, when leaving each other at Eton, that we should thus communicate
the characteristic traits of the society we were about to amalgamate with. He has, in the phraseology
of the day, just come out, and certainly appears to have made the best use of his time.

KENSINGTON GARDENS--SUNDAY EVENING.

Singularities of 1824.

          Its wealth and fashion, wit and folly,
          Pleasures, whims, and melancholy:
          Of all the charming belles and beaux
          Who line the parks, in double rows;
          Of princes, peers, their equipage,
          The splendour of the present age;
          Of west-end fops, and crusty cits,
          Who drive their gigs, or sport their tits;
          With all the groups we mean to dash on
          Who form the busy world of fashion:
          Proceeding onwards to the city,
          With sketches, humorous and witty.
          Our style shall, like our subject, be
          Distinguished by variety;
          Familiar, brief we could say too--
          (It shall be whimsical and new),
          But reader that we leave to you.

          'Twas morn, the genial sun of May
          O'er nature spread a cheerful ray,
          When Cockney Land, clothed in her best,
          We saw, approaching from the west,
          And 'mid her steeples straight and tall
          Espied the dome of famed St. Paul,
          Surrounded with a cloud of smoke
          From many a kitchen chimney broke;
          A nuisance since consumed below
          By bill of Michael Angelo.{1}
          The coach o'er stones was heard to rattle,

     1 M. A. Taylor's act for compelling all large factories,
     which have steam and other apparatus, to consume their own
     smoke.

~166~~

          The guard his bugle tuned for battle,
          The horses snorted with delight,
          As Piccadilly came in sight.
          On either side the road was lined
          With vehicles of ev'ry kind,
          And as the rapid wheel went round,
          There seem'd scarce room to clear the ground.
          "Gate-gate-push on--how do--well met--
          Pull up--my tits are on the fret--
          The number--lost it--tip then straight,
          That covey vants to bilk the gate."
          The toll-house welcome this to town.
          Your prime, flash, bang up, fly, or down,
          A tidy team of prads,--your castor's
          Quite a Joliffe tile,--my master.
          Thus buck and coachee greet each other,
          And seem familiar as a brother.
          No Chinese wall, or rude barrier,
          Obstructs the view, or entrance here;
          Nor fee or passport,--save the warder,
          Who draws to keep the roads in order;
          No questions ask'd, but all that please
          May pass and repass at their ease.

          In cockney land, the seventh day
          Is famous for a grand display
          Of modes, of finery, and dress,
          Of cit, west-ender, and noblesse,
          Who in Hyde Park crowd like a fair
          To stare, and lounge, and take the air,
          Or ride or drive, or walk, and chat
          On fashions, scandal, and all that.--
          Here, reader, with your leave, will we
          Commence our London history.
          'Twas Sunday, and the park was full
          With Mistress, John, and Master Bull,
          And all their little fry.
          The crowd pour in from all approaches,
          Tilb'ries, dennets, gigs, and coaches;

~167~~

          The bells rung merrily.
          Old dowagers, their fubsy faces{2}
          Painted to eclipse the Graces,
          Pop their noddles out
          Of some old family affair
          That's neither chariot, coach, or chair,
          Well known at ev'ry rout.
          But bless me, who's that coach and six?
          "That, sir, is Mister Billy Wicks,
          A great light o' the city,
          Tallow-chandler, and lord mayor{3};
          Miss Flambeau Wicks's are the fair,
          Who're drest so very pretty.
          It's only for a year you know
          He keeps up such a flashy show;
          And then he's melted down.
          The man upon that half-starved nag{4}
          Is an Ex-S------ff, a strange wag,
          Half flash, and half a clown.
          But see with artful lures and wiles
          The Paphian goddess, Mrs. G***s,{5}

     2 There are from twenty to thirty of these well known relics
     of antiquity who regularly frequent the park, and attend all
     the fashionable routs,--perfumed and painted with the
     utmost extravagance: if the wind sets in your face, they may
     be scented at least a dozen carriages off.

     3 It is really ludicrous to observe the ridiculous pride of
     some of these ephemeral things;--during their mayoralty, the
     gaudy city vehicle with four richly caparisoned horses is
     constantly in the drive, with six or eight persons crammed
     into it like a family waggon, and bedizened out in all the
     colours of the rainbow;--ask for them six months after, and
     you shall find them more suitably employed, packing rags,
     oranges, or red herrings.

     4 This man is such a strange compound of folly and
     eccentricity, that he is eternally in hot water with some
     one or other.

     5  Mrs. Fanny G-1-s, the ci-devant wife of a corn merchant,
     a celebrated courtezan, who sports a splendid equipage, and
     has long figured upon town as a star of the first order in
     the Cyprian hemisphere. She has some excellent qualities,
     as poor M---------n can vouch; for when the fickle goddess
     Fortune left him in the lurch, she has a handsome annuity
     from a sporting peer, who was once the favoured swain.

~168~~

          From out her carriage peeps;
          She nods to am'rous Mrs. D-----,{6}
          Who bends with most sublime congee,
          While ruin'd-----------sleeps.
          Who follows 1 'tis the hopeful son
          Of the proud Earl of H-----------n,
          Who stole the parson's wife.{7}
          The Earl of H-----------and flame,
          For cabriolets she's the dame,{8}
          A dasher, on my life.
          Jack T-----1 shows his pleasant face{9};
          A royal likeness here you'll trace,
          You'd swear he was a Guelph.
          See Lady Mary's U------walk,{10}
          And though but aide-de-camp to York,
          An Adonis with himself,

     6  Mrs. D---------, alias Mrs. B-k-y, alias Miss Montague,
     the wife of poor Jem B-k-y, the greater his misfortune,--a
     well known Paphian queen, one of five sisters, who are all
     equally notorious, and whose history is well known. She is
     now the favoured sultana of a ci-devant banker, whose name
     she assumes, to the disgrace of himself and family.

     7  The clerical cornuto recovered, in a crim. con. action,
     four thousand pounds for the loss of his frail rib, from
     this hopeful sprig of nobility.

     8  Mrs. S------, a most voluptuous lady, the discarded chère
     amie of the late Lord F-1-d, said to be the best carriage
     woman in the park: she lies in the Earl of H-------
     --'s cabriolet most delightfully stretched out at full
     length, and in this elegant posture is driven through the
     park.

     9  Captain T------l of the guards, whose powerful similitude
     to the reigning family of England is not more generally
     admitted than his good-humoured qualities are universally
     admired.

     10 The Hon. General U---------, aide-de-camp to the Duke of
     York, whose intrigue with Lady Mary------------was, we have
     heard, a planned affair to entrap a very different person.
     Be that as it may, it answered the purpose, and did not
     disturb the friendship of the parties. The honourable
     general has obtained the appellation of the Park Adonis,
     from his attractive figure and known gallantries.

~169~~

          A-----------y mark, a batter'd beau,{11}
          Who'll still the fatal dice-box throw
          Till not a guinea's left.
          Beyond's the brothers B-----e,{12}
          Of gold and acres quite as free,
          By gaming too bereft.
          Here trips commercial dandy Ra-k-s,{13}

     11   Lord A------y, the babe of honour--once the gayest of
     the gay, where fashion holds her bright enchanting court;
     now wrinkled and depressed, and plucked of every feather, by
     merciless Greek banditti. Such is the infatuation of play,
     that he still continues to linger round the fatal table, and
     finds a pleasure in recounting his enormous losses. A---y,
     who is certainly one of the most polished men in the
     world, was the leader of the dandy club, or the unique four,
     composed of Beau Brummell, Sir Henry Mildmay, and Henry
     Pierrepoint, the Ambassador, as he is generally termed. When
     the celebrated dandy ball was given to his Majesty (then
     Prince of Wales), on that occasion the prince seemed
     disposed to cut Brummell, who, in revenge, coolly
     observed to A------y, when he was gone,--"Big Ben was vulgar
     as usual." This was reported at Carlton House, and led to
     the disgrace of the exquisite.--Shortly afterwards he met the
     Prince and A------y in public, arm in arm, when the former,
     desirous of avoiding him, quitted the baron: Brummell, who
     observed his motive, said loud enough to be heard by the
     prince,--"Who is that fat friend of yours?" This expression
     sealed his doom; he was never afterwards permitted the
     honour of meeting the parties at the palace. The story of
     "George, ring the bell," and the reported conduct of the
     prince, who is said to have obeyed the request and ordered
     Mr. Brummell's carriage, is, we have strong reasons for
     thinking, altogether a fiction: Brummell knew the dignity of
     his host too well to have dared such an insult. The king
     since generously sent him 300L. when he heard of his
     distress at Calais. Brummell was the son of a tavern-keeper
     in St. James's, and is still living at Calais.

     12 The brothers are part of a flock of R------r geese, who
     have afforded fine plucking for the Greeks. Parson Ambrose,
     the high priest of Pandemonium, had a leg of one and a wing
     of the other devilled for supper one night at the Gothic
     Hall. They have cut but a lame figure ever since.

     13 A quaint cognomen given to the city banker by the west-
     end beaux;--he is a very amiable man.

~170~~

          Who never plays for heavy stakes,
          But looks to the main chance.
          There's Georgy W-b-ll, all the go,{14}
          The mould of fashion,--the court beau,
          Since Brummell fled to France:
          His bright brass harness, and the gray,
          The well known black cabriolet,
          Is always latest there;
          The reason,--George, with Captain P------
          The lady-killing coterie,
          Come late--to catch the fair.
          See W-s-r, who with pious love,{15}
          For her, who's sainted now above,
          A sister kindly takes;
          So, as the ancient proverb tells,
          "The best of husbands, modern belles,
          Are your reformed rakes."
          In splendid mis'ry down the ride
          Alone,--see ****** lady glide,{16}
          Neglected for a--------.
          What's fame, or titles, wealth's increase,
          Compared unto the bosom's peace?
          They're bubbles,--nothing more.

     14 George, although a roué of the most superlative order,
     is not deficient in good sense and agreeable qualifications.
     Since poor Beau Brummell's removal from the hemisphere of
     fashion, George has certainly shone a planet of the first
     magnitude: among the fair he is also considered like his
     friend, Captain P-r-y, a perfect lady-killer:--many a little
     milliner's girl has had cause to regret the seductive notes
     of A.Z.B. Limmer's Hotel.

     15 The Marquis of W-c-t-r has, since his first wife's death,
     married her sister.--Reformation, we are happy to perceive,
     is the order of the day. The failure of Howard and Gibbs
     involved more than one noble family in embarrassments.

     16 The amours of this child of fortune are notorious both on
     the continent and in this country. It is very often the
     misfortune of great men to be degraded by great profligacy
     of conduct: the poor lady is a suffering angel.

~171~~

          Observe yon graceful modest group{17}
          Who look like chaste Diana's troop,
          The Ladies Molineaux;
          With Sefton, the Nimrod of peers,
          As old in honesty,--as years,
          A stanch true buff' and blue.
          "What portly looking man is that
          In plain blue coat,--to whom each hat
          Is moved in ride and walk!"
          That pleasant fellow, be it known,
          Is heir presumptive to the throne,
          'Tis Frederick of York.{18}
          A better, kinder hearted soul
          You will not And, upon the whole,
          Within the British isle.
          But see where P-t's wife appears,{19}
          Who changed, though rather late in years,
          For honest George Ar-le.
          Now by my faith it gives me pain

     17  The female branches of the Sefton family are superior to
     the slightest breath of calumny, and present an example to
     the peerage worthy of more general imitation.

     18  No member of the present royal family displays more
     agreeable qualifications in society than the heir
     presumptive.--Un-affected, affable, and free, the duke may be
     seen daily pacing St. James's-street, Pall-mall, or the
     Park, very often wholly un-attended: as his person is
     familiar to the public, he never experiences the slightest
     inconvenience from curiosity, and he is so generally
     beloved, that none pass him who know him without paying
     their tribute of respect. In all the private relations of
     life he is a most estimable man,--in his public situation
     indefatigable, prompt, and attentive to the meanest applica-
     tion.

     19  A more lamentable instance of the profligacy of the age
     cannot be found than in the history of the transaction which
     produced this exchange of wives and persons. A wag of the
     day published a new list of promotions headed as follows,--
     Lady B------n to be Lady A------r P-t,--by exchange--Lady P-t
     to be Duchess of A------e,--by promotion--Lady Charlotte W--y
     to be Lady P-t, vice Lady P-t, promoted.
          Gay lady H-----e's twinkling star{21}

     20  It is not long since that, inspired by love or ambition,
     a wealthy commoner sought the promise of the fair hand of
     Lady J-, nor was the consent of her noble father (influenced
     by certain weighty reasons*) wanting to complete the
     anticipated happiness of the suitor.--All the preliminary
     forms were arranged,--jointure and pin money liberally
     fixed,--some legal objections as to a covenant of forfeiture
     overcame, a suitable establishment provided. The happy day
     was fixed, when--"mark inconstant fickle woman"--the evening
     previous to completion (to the surprise of all the town),
     she changed her mind; she had reconsidered the subject!--The
     man was wealthy, and attractive in person; but then--
     insupportable objection--he was a mere plebeian, a common
     esquire, and his name was odious,--Lady J- B-1,--she could
     never endure it: the degrading thought produced a fainting
     fit,--the recovery a positive refusal,--the circumstance a
     week's amusement to the fashionable world. Reflection and
     disappointment succeeded, and a revival was more than once
     spoken of; but the recent marriage of the bachelor put an
     end to all conjecture, and the poor lady was for some time
     left to bewail in secret her single destiny. Who can say,
     when a lady has the golden ball at her foot, where she may
     kick it? Circumstances which have occurred since the above
     was written prove that the lady has anticipated our advice.

     21  Her ladyship's crimson vis-à-vis and her tall footman
     are both highly attractive--there are no seats in the
     vehicle--the fair owner reclines on a splendid crimson velvet
     divan or cushion. She must now be considered a beauty of the
     last century, being already turned of fifty: still she
     continued to flourish in the annals of--fashion, until
     within the last few years; when she ceased to go abroad for
     amusement, finding it more convenient to purchase it at
     home. As her parties in Grosvenor-square are of the most
     splendid description, and her dinners (where she is the
     presiding deity, and the only one) are frequent, and
     unrivalled for a display of the "savoir vivre," her ladyship
     can always draw on the gratitude of her guests for that
     homage to hospitality which she must cease to expect to her
     charms, "now in the sear and yellow leaf:"--she is a M-nn-
     rs-"verbum sal." Speaking of M-nn-ra, where is the portly
     John (the Regent's double, as he was called some few years
     since), and the amiable duchess, who bestowed her hand and
     fortune upon him?--but, n'importe.

     * The marquis is said to have shown some aversion in the
     first instance, till H-s B-1 sent his rent roll for his
     inspection: this was immediately returned with a very
     satisfactory reply, but accompanied with a more embarrassing
     request, namely, a sight of his pedigree.

~173~~

          Glimmers in eclipse,--afar's
          The light of former time.
          In gorgeous pride and vis-à-vis,{22}
          A-b-y's orange livry see,
          The gayest in the clime.
          Camac and wife, in chariot green,
          Constant as turtle-doves are seen,
          With two bronze slaves behind;
          Next H-tf-d's comely, widow'd dame,{23}
          With am'rous G------, a favourite name,
          When G------was true and kind.

     22   "The gorgeous A-b-y in the sun-flower's pride." This
     lady's vis-à-vis by far the most splendidly rich on town.
     Her footmen (of which there are four on drawing-room days)
     are a proper emblem of that gaudy flower--bright yellow
     liveries, black lower garments, spangled and studded. There
     is a general keeping in this gorgeous equipage, which is
     highly creditable to the taste of the marchioness, for the
     marquis, "good easy man," (though a Bruce), he is too much
     engaged preserving his game at Ro-er-n park, and keeping up
     the game in St. Stephen's (where his influence is
     represented by no less than eight "sound men and true"), to
     attend to these trifling circumstances. This, with a well
     paid rental of upwards of £100,000 per annum, makes the life
     of this happy pair pass in an uninterrupted stream of
     fashionable felicity.

     23  The marchioness is said to bear the neglect of a certain
     capricious friend with much cool philosophy. Soon after the
     intimacy had ceased, they met by accident. On the sofa, by
     the side of the inconstant, sat the reigning favourite; the
     marchioness placed herself (uninvited) on the opposite side:
     astonishment seized the ****; he rose, made a very graceful
     bow to one of the ladies, and coolly observed to the
     marchesa--"If this conduct is repeated, I must decline
     meeting you in public."   This was the cut royal.

~174~~

          See S-b-y's peeress, whom each fool
          Of fashion meets in Sunday school,{24}
          To chat in learned lore;
          Where rhyming peers, and letter'd beaus,
          Blue stocking belles to love dispose,
          And wit is deem'd a bore.
          With brave Sir Ronald, toe to toe,
          See Mrs. M-h-l A-g-lo,{25}
          Superb equestriana.
          Next--that voluptuous little dame,{26}
          Who sets the dandy world in flame,
          The female Giovanni.
          Erin's sprightly beauteous belle,
          Gay Lady G-t-m, and her swell
          The Yorkshire Whiskerandoes.{27}

     24 The dulness of the marchioness's Sunday evening conver-
     saziones have obtained them the fashionable appellation of
     the Sunday-school. Lord Byron thought it highly dangerous
     for any wit to accept a second invitation, lest he should be
     inoculated with ennui.

     23 Mrs. M- A-g-e, a very amiable and accomplished woman,
     sister to Sir H-y V-ne T-p-t. She is considered the best
     female equestrian in the ride.

     26  A consideration for the delicacy of our fair readers
     will not allow us to enter upon the numerous amours of this
     favourite of Apollo and the Muses, and not less celebrated
     intriguant. She may, however, have ample justice entailed
     upon her under another head. Latterly, since the police have
     been so active in suppressing the gaming houses, a small
     party have met with security and profit for a little chicken
     hazard in Curzon-street, at which Mr. C-t has occasionally
     acted as croupier and banker. Elliston used to say, when
     informed of the sudden indisposition or absence of a certain
     little actress and singer-"Ay, I understand; she has a more
     profitable engagement than mine this evening." The amorous
     trio, Cl-g-t, Charles H-r-s, and the exquisite Master G-e,
     may not have cause to complain of neglect. The first of
     these gentlemen has lately, we understand, been very
     successful at play; we trust experience will teach him
     prudence.

     27  His lordship commands the York hussars, in defence of
     whose whiskers he sometime since made a Quixotic attack upon
     a public writer. As he is full six feet high, and we are not
     quite five, prudence bids us place our finger on our lip.

~175~~

          Pale Lambton, he who loves and hates
          By turns, what Pitts, or Pit, creates,
          Led by the Whig fandangoes.
          Sound folly's trumpet, fashion's drums,--
          Here great A------y W------ce comes,{28}
          'Mong tailors, a red button.
          With luminarious nose and cheeks,
          Which love of much good living speaks,
          Observe the city glutton:
          Sir W-m, admiral of yachts,
          Of turtles, capons, port, and pots,
          In curricle so big.
          Jack F-r follows;--Jack's a wag,{29}

     28  A------y W------o, Esq. otherwise the renowned Billy
     Button, the son and heir to the honours, fortune, and
     shopboard of the late Billy Button of Bedford-street, Covent
     Garden. The latter property he appears to have transferred
     to the front of the old brown landau, where the aged
     coachman, with nose as flat as the ace of clubs, sits,
     transfixed and rigid as the curls of his caxon, from three
     till six every Sunday evening, urging on a cabbage-fed pair
     of ancient prods, which no exertion of the venerable Jehu
     has been able for the last seven years to provoke into a
     trot from Hyde park gate to that of Cumberland and back
     again. The contents of the vehicle are equally an
     exhibition. Billy, with two watches hung by one chain,
     undergoing the revolutionary movements of buckets in a
     well, and his eye-glass set round with false pearls, are
     admirably "en suite" with his bugle optics. The frowsy
     madam in faded finery, with all the little Buttons, attended
     by a red-haired poor relation from Inverness (who is at once
     their governess and their victim), form the happy tenantry
     of this moving closet. No less than three, crests surmount
     the arms of this descendant of Wallace the Great. A waggish
     Hibernian, some few months since, added a fourth, by
     chalking a goose proper, crested with a cabbage, which was
     observed and laughed at by every one in the park except the
     purblind possessor of the vehicle, who was too busy in
     looking at himself.

     29  Honest Jack is no longer an M.P., to the great regret of
     the admirers of senatorial humours. Some few years since,
     being Btuehi plenus, he reeled into St. Stephen's chapel a
     little out of a perpendicular; when the then dignified Abbot
     having called him to order, he boldly and vociferously
     asserted that "Jack F-r of Rose-Hill was not to be set down
     by any little fellow in a wig. "This offence against the
     person and high office of the Abbot of St. Stephen's brought
     honest Jack upon his knees, to get relieved from a
     troublesome serjeant attendant of the chapel. Knowing his
     own infirmities, and fearing perhaps that he might be com-
     pelled to make another compulsory prayer, Jack resigned his
     pretensions to senatorial honors at the last general
     election. His chief amusement, when in town, is the watching
     and tormenting the little marchandes des modes who cross
     over or pass in the neighbourhood of Regent-street--he is,
     however, perfectly harmless. 30 An unlucky accident,
     occasioned by little Th-d the wine merchant overturning F-z-y
     in his tandem, compelled the latter to sell out of the
     army, but not without having lost a leg in the service. A
     determined patriot, he was still resolved to serve his
     country. A barrister on one leg might be thought ominous of
     his client's cause, or afford food for the raillery of his
     opponent. The bar was therefore rejected. But the church
     opened her arms to receive the dismembered son of Mars (a
     parson with a cork leg, or two wooden ones, or indeed
     without a leg to stand on, was not un-orthodox), and F-z-y
     was soon inducted to a valuable benefice. He is now, we
     believe, a pluralist, and, if report be true, has shown
     something of the old soldier in his method of retaining
     them. F-y married Miss Wy-d-m, the daughter of Mrs. H-s, who
     was the admired of his brother, L-d P-. He is generally
     termed the fighting parson, and considered one of the best
     judges of a horse in town: he sometimes does a little
     business in that way among the young ones.

~176~~

          A jolly dog, who sports his nag,
          Or queers the Speaker's wig:
          To Venus, Jack is stanch and true;
          To Bacchus pays devotion too,
          But likes not bully Mars.
          Next him, some guardsmen, exquisite,-
          A well-dress'd troop;--but as to fight,
          It may leave ugly scars.
          Here a church militant is seen,{30}
          Who'd rather fight than preach I ween,
          Once major, now a parson;
          With one leg in the grave, he'll laugh,
          Chant up a pard, or quaintly chaff,
          To keep life's pleasant farce on.

~177~~

          Lord Arthur Hill his Arab sports,
          And gentle-usher to the courts:
          See Horace and Kang C-k,{31}
          Who, with the modern Mokamna
          C-m-e, must ever bear the sway
          For ugliness of look.
          A pair of ancients you may spy,{32}
          Sir Edward and Sir Carnaby,
          From Brighton just set free;
          The jesters of our lord the king,
          Who loves a joke, and aids the thing
          In many a sportive way.
          A motley group come rattling on,{33}

     31 Horace S-y-r, gentleman usher to the king, and K-g C-k,
     said to be the ugliest man in the British army: in the park
     he is rivalled only by C-c. For the benefit of all the
     married ladies, we would recommend both of these
     singularities to wear the veil in public.

     32 Sir Ed-d N-g-e. His present majesty is not less fond of a
     pleasant joke than his laughter-loving predecessor, Charles
     II. The Puke of Clarence, while at the Pavilion (a short
     time since), admired a favourite grey pony of Sir E-d N-e's;
     in praise of whose qualities the baronet was justly liberal.
     After the party had returned to the palace, the duke, in
     concert with the k-g, slily gave directions to have the pony
     painted and disfigured (by spotting him with water colour
     and attaching a long tail), and then brought on the lawn. In
     this state he was shown to Sir E--, as one every way
     superior to his own. After examining him minutely, the old
     baronet found great fault with the pony; and being, at the
     duke's request, induced to mount him, objected to all his
     paces, observing that he was not half equal to his grey. The
     king was amazingly amused with the sagacity of the good-
     humoured baronet, and laughed heartily at the astonishment
     he expressed when convinced of the deception practised upon
     him. Sir C-n-y H-s-ne, although a constant visitor at the
     Pavilion, is not particularly celebrated for any attractive
     qualification, unless it be his unlimited love of little
     ladies. He is known to all the horse dealers round London,
     from his constant inquiries for a "nice quiet little horse
     to carry a lady;" but we never heard of his making a
     purchase.

     33 The middle order of society was formerly in England the
     most virtuous of the three--folly and vice reared their
     standard and recruited their ranks in the highest and the
     lowest; but the medium being now lost, all is in the
     extreme. The superlative dandy inhabitant of a first floor
     from the ground in Bond-street, and the finished inhabitant
     of a first floor from heaven (who lives by diving) in Fleet-
     street, are in kindness and habits precisely the same.

~178~~

          Who ape the style and dress of ton,
          And Scarce are worth review;
          Yet forced to note the silly elves,
          Who take such pains to note themselves,
          We'll take a name or two.
          H-s-ly, a thing of shreds and patches,{34}
          Whose manners with his calling matches,
          That is, he's a mere goose.
          Old St-z of France, a worthy peer,
          From shopboard rais'd him to a sphere
          Of ornament and use.
          The double dandy, fashion's fool,
          The lubin log of Liverpool,
          Fat Mister A-p-ll,
          Upon his cob, just twelve hands high,
          A mountain on a mouse you'll spy
          Trotting towards the Mall.
          Sir *-----*-, the chicken man,{35}

     34 Young Priment, as he is generally termed, the once
     dashing foreman and cutter out, now co-partner of the
     renowned Baron St-z, recently made a peer of France. Who
     would not be a tailor (St-z has retired with a fortune of
     £100,000. )! Lord de C-ff-d, some time since objecting to
     certain items in his son's bill from St-z, as being too
     highly charged, said, "Tell Mr. S- I will not pay him, if it
     costs me a thousand pounds to resist it. " St-z, on hearing
     this, said, "Tell his lordship that he shall pay the
     charge, if it costs me ten thousand to make him." H-s-ly
     with some little satisfaction was displaying to a customer
     the Prince of C-b-g's bill for three months (on the occasion
     of his Highness's new field-marshal's suit, we suppose):
     "Here," said he, "see what we have done for him: his
     quarter's tailor's bill now comes to more than his annual
     income formerly amounted to." Mr. H-s-ly sports a bit of
     blood, a dennet, and a filly; and, for a tailor, is a
     superfine sort of dandy, but with a strong scent of the shop
     about him.

     35 The redoubtable general's penchant for little girls has
     obtained him the tender appellation of the chicken man.
     Many of these petits amours are carried on in the assumed
     name of Sir Lewis N-t-n, aided by the skill and ingenuity
     of Captain *-.    Youth may plead whim and novelty for low
     intrigue; but the aged beau can only resort to it from
     vitiated habit.

~179~~

          With pimp *-a-t in the van,
          The Spy of an old Spy;
          Who beat up for recruits in town,
          Mong little girls, in chequer'd gown,
          Of ages rather shy.
          That mild, complacent-looking face,{36}
          Who sits his bit of blood with grace,
          Is tragic Charley Young:
          With dowager savant a beau,
          Who'll spout, or tales relate, you know,
          Nobility among.
          "Sure such a pair was never seen"
          By nature form'd so sharp and keen
          As H-ds-n and Jack L-g;
          Or two who've play'd their cards so well,
          As many a pluck'd roué can tell,
          Whose purses once were strong:
          Both deal in pipes--and by the nose
          Have led to many a green horn's woes
          A few gay bucks to Surrey,
          Where Marshal Jones commands in chief
          A squadron, who to find relief
          Are always in a hurry.
          They're folloiv'd by a merry set--
          Cl-m-ris, L-n-x, young B-d-t,
          Whom they may shortly follow.
          That tall dismember'd dandy mark,
          Who strolls dejected through the park,
          With cheeks so lank and hollow;
          That's Badger B-t-e, poet A--
          The mighty author of "To-day,"

     36 This truly respectable actor is highly estimated among a
     large circle of polished society; where his amusing talents
     and gentlemanly demeanour render him a most entertaining
     and agreeable companion.

~180~~

          Forgotten of "To-morrow;"
          A superficial wit, who 'll write
          For Shandy little books of spite,
          When cash he wants to borrow.
          The pious soul who 's driving by,
          And at the poet looks so shy,
          Is parson A- the gambler;{37}
          His deaf-lugg'd daddy a known blade
          In Pandemonium's fruitful trade,
          'Mong Paphians a rambler.
          Augusta H-ke (or C-i) moves
          Along the path--her little doves--
          Decoys, upon each arm.
          Where 's Jehu Martin, four-in-hand,
          An exile in a foreign land
          From fear of legal charm.
          A pensioner of Cyprian queen,
          The Bond-street tailor here is seen,
          The tally-ho so gay.
          Next P------s,{38} who by little goes,

     37 The parson is so well known, and has been so plentifully
     be-spattered on all sides, that we shall, with true orthodox
     charity, leave him with a strong recommendation to the
     notice of the society for the suppression of vice, with this
     trite remark, "Vide hic et ubique."

     38 This man, who is now reported to be worth three hundred
     thousand pounds, was originally a piece-broker in Bedford-
     bury, and afterwards kept a low public house in Vinegar-
     yard, Drury-lane; from whence he merged into an illegal
     lottery speculation in Northumberland-street, Strand, where
     he realized a considerable sum by insurances and little
     goes; from this spot he was transplanted to Norris-street,
     in the Haymarket, managing partner in a gaming-house, when,
     after a run of ill luck, an affair occurred that would have
     occasioned some legal difficulty but for the oath of a
     pastry-cook's wife, who proved an alibi, in return for which
     act of kindness he afterwards made her his wife. Obtaining
     possession of the rooms in Pall-Mall (then the celebrated
     E. O. tables, and the property of W-, the husband, by a sham
     warrant), the latter became extremely jealous; and, to make
     all comfortable, our hero, to use his own phrase, generously
     bought the mure and coll.--Mrs. W--and her son--both since
     dead: the latter rose to very high rank in an honourable
     profession. The old campaigner has now turned pious, and
     recently erected and endowed a chapel. He used to boast he
     had more promissory notes of gambling dupes than would be
     sufficient to cover the whole of Pall-Mall; he may with
     justice add, that he can command bank notes enough to cover
     Cavendish-square.

~181~~

          And west-end hells, to fortune rose
          By many a subtle way.
          Patron of bull-baits, racings, fights,
          A chief of black-legg'd low delights--
          'Tis the new m------s, F-k;
          Time was, his heavy vulgar gait,
          With one of highest regal state
          Took precedence of rank:
          But now, a little in disgrace
          Since J-e usurp'd his m------'s place,
          A stranger he's at court;
          Unlike the greatest and the best
          Who went before, his feather'd nest
          Is well enrich'd by sport.
          F-1-y disastrous, honour's child;
          L-t-he the giddy, gay, and wild,
          And sportive little Jack;
          The prince of dandies join the throng,
          Where Gwydir spanks his fours along,
          The silvery grays or black.
          The charming F-te, and Colonel B-,{39}
          Snugly in close carriage see
          With crimson coats behind:
          And Mrs. C--, the Christmas belle,

     39 We shall not follow the colonel's example, or we could
     give some extracts from the letters of a. female
     corespondent of his that would be both curious and
     interesting; but n'importe, consideration for the lady
     alone prevents the publication. In town he is always
     discovered by a group of would-be exquisites, the satellites
     of the Jupiter of B-k-y C-t-e at Gl-r; or at Ch---------m
     they have some name; but here they are more fortunate, for
     o'er them oblivion throws the friendly veil.

~182~~

          With banker's clerk, a tale must tell
          To all who are not blind.
          Ah! Poodle Byng appears in view,{40}
          Who gives at whist a point or two
          To dowagers in years.
          And see where ev'ry body notes
          The star of fashion, Romeo Coates{41}
          The amateur appears:
          But where! ah! where, say, shall I tell
          Are the brass cocks and cockle shell?
          Ill hazard, rouge et noir
          If it but speak, can tales relate
          Of many an equipage's fate,
          And may of many more.
          Ye rude canaille, make way, make way,
          The Countess and the Count--------,{42}

     40 This gentleman is generally designated by the name of
     "the whist man:" he holds a situation in the secretary of
     state's office, and is in particular favour with all the old
     dowagers, at whose card parties it is said he is generally
     fortunate. He has recently been honoured with the situation
     of grand chamberlain to their black majesties of the
     Sandwich isles.

     41  Poor Borneo's brilliancy is somewhat in eclipse, and
     though not quite a fallen star, he must not run on black too
     long,--lest his diamond-hilted sword should be the price of
     his folly.

     42 The Countess of ---------------is the daughter of
     Governor J-----------; her mother's name was Patty F-d, the
     daughter of an auctioneer who was the predecessor of the
     present Mr. Christie's father. Patty, then a very beautiful
     woman, went with him to India, and was a most faithfull and
     attentive companion.--On the voyage home with J-------
     -----and her three children, by him, the present countess,
     and her brothers James and George, they touched at the Cape,
     where the old governor most ungratefully fell in love with a
     young Portuguese lady, whom he married and brought to
     England in the same ship with his former associate, whom he
     soon after completely abandoned, settling 500L. a year upon
     her for the support of herself and daughter; his two sons,
     James and George, he provided with writerships in the
     company's service, and sent to India. James died young, and
     George returned to England in a few years, worth 180,000
     pounds.--He lingered in a very infirm state of health, the
     effects of the climate and Mrs. M-, alias Madame Haut Gout;
     and at his death, being a bachelor, he left the present
     countess, his sister who lived with him, the whole of his
     property. There are various tales circulated in the
     fashionable world relative to the origin and family of the
     count, who has certainly been a most fortunate man: he is
     chiefly indebted for success with the countess to his skill
     as an amateur on the flute, rather than to his paternal
     estates. The patron of foreigners, he takes an active part
     in the affairs of the Opera-house.--Poor Tori having given
     some offence in this quarter, was by his influence kept out
     of an engagement; but it would appear he received some
     amends, by the following extract from a fashionable paper of
     the day.

     A certain fashionable------l, who was thought to be au
     comble de bonheur, has lately been much tormented with that
     green-eyed monster, Jealousy, in the shape of an opera
     singer. Plutôt mourir que changer, was thought to be the
     motto of the pretty round-faced English------------s;  but,
     alas! like the original, it was written on the sands of
     disappointment, and was scarcely read by the admiring
     husband, before his joy was dashed by the prophetic wave,
     and the inscription erased by a favoured son of Apollo.
     L'oreille est le chemin du cour: so thought the ------l,
     and forbade the ----------s to hold converse with Monsieur
     T.; but les femmes peuvent tout, parce-qu'elles gouvernent
     ceux qui gouvernent tous.    A meeting took place in
     Grosvenor-square, and, amid the interchange of doux yeux,
     the ---------l arrived: a desperate scuffle ensued; the
     intruder was banished the house, and, as he left the door,
     is said to have whistled the old French proverb of Le bon
     temps viendra. This affair has created no little amusement
     among the beau monde. All the dowagers are fully agreed on
     one point, that l'amour est une passion qui vient souvent
     sans qu'on s'en apperçoîve, et, qui s'en va aussi de même.

~183~~

          Who play de prettee flute,
          Who charm une petit English ninnie,
          Till all the Joueur J------'s guinea
          Him pochée en culotte.
          Who follows? 'tis the Signor Tori,
          'Bout whom the gossips tell a story,
          With some who've gone before:
          "The bird in yonder cage confined
          Can sing of lovers young and kind,"
          But there, he'll sing no more.

~184~~

          Lord L------looks disconsolate,{}43
          No news from Spain I think of late,
          Per favour M--------i.
          Ne'er heed, my lord, you still may find
          Some opera damsel true and kind,
          Who'll prove less coy and naughty.
          "Now by the pricking of my thumbs,
          There's something wicked this way comes,"
          'Tis A-'s false dame,{44}
          Who at Almack's, or in the park,
          With whispers charms a clucal spark,
          To blight his wreath of fame.
          Observe, where princely Devonshire,{45}

     43 His lordship, though not quite so deeply smitten as the
     now happy swain, had, we believe, a little penchant for
     the charming little daughter of Terpsichore.     "What news
     from Spain, my lord, this morning?" said Sir C. A. to Lord
     L------"I have no connexion with the foreign office,"
     replied his lordship.--"I beg pardon, my lord, but I am sure
     I met a Spanish messenger quitting your house as I entered
     it." On the turf, his lordship's four year old (versus five)
     speculations with Cove B-n have given him a notoriety that
     will, we think, prevent his ruining himself at Newmarket.
     Like the immortal F-e, he is one of the opera directors, and
     has a great inclination for foreign curiosities. Vide the
     following extract.--

     "The New Corps de Ballot at the Opera this season, 1823, is
     entirely composed of Parisian elegantes, selected with great
     taste by Lord L---------, whose judgment in these matters is
     perfectly con amore. In a letter to a noble friend on
     this subject, Lord L--------says that he has seen, felt, and
     (ap-) proved them all------to be excellent artistes with
     very finished movements."

     Certain ridiculous reports have long been current in the
     fashionable world, relative to a mysterious family affair,
     which would preclude the noble duke's entering into the
     state of matrimony: it is hardly necessary to say they have
     no foundation in truth. The duke was certainly born in the
     same house and at nearly the same time (in Florence) when
     Lady E. F-st-r, since Duchess of D-, was delivered of a
     child--but that offspring is living, and, much to the present
     duke's honour, affectionately regarded by him. The duke was
     for some years abroad after coming to his title, owing, it
     is said, to an unpleasant affair arising out of a whist
     party at a great house, which was composed of a Prince,
     Lords L------and Y------th, another foreign Prince, and a
     Colonel B-, of whom no one has heard much since.--A noble
     mansion in Piccadilly was there and then assigned to the
     colonel, who at the request of the -e, who had long wished
     to possess it as a temporary residence, during some
     intended repairs at the great house, re-conveyed it to
     the------. On the receipt of a note from Y- the next
     morning, claiming the amount of the duke's losses, he
     started with surprise at the immense sums, and being now
     perfectly recovered from the overpowering effects of the
     bottle, hastened with all speed to take the opinions of two
     well-known sporting peers, whose honour has never been
     questioned, Lords F-y and S-n; they, upon a review of the
     circumstances, advised that the money should not be paid,
     but that all matters in dispute should be referred to a
     third peer, Earl G-y, who was not a sporting man: to this
     effect a note was written to the applicant, but not before
     some communication had taken place with a very high
     personage; the consequence was that no demand was ever
     afterwards made to the referee. Lord G- C- afterwards re-
     purchased the great house with the consent of the duke from
     the fortunate holder, as he did not like it to be
     dismembered from the family. We believe this circumstance
     had a most salutary effect in preventing any return of a
     propensity for play.

     44 Charley loves good place and wine,
        And Charley loves good brandy,
        And Charley's wife is thought divine,
        By many a Jack a dandy.
        PARODY ON AN OLD NURSERY RHYME.

     {45} A CHARACTER OF DEVONSHIRE.

~185~~

~186~~

          In action, heart, and mind, a peer,
          Avoids the public gaze;
          Graceful, yet simple in attire,
          You'd take him for a plain esquire;
          "His acts best speak his praise."
          That queer, plain, yellow chariot, mark,
          Which drives so rapid through the park,
          The servants clothed in gray--
          That's George, incog.--George who? George-king,{46}
          Of whom near treason 'tis to sing,
          In this our sportive lay.
          Kings like their subjects should have air
          And exercise, without the stare
          Which the state show attends;
          I love to see in public place
          The monarch, who'll his people face,
          And meet like private friends.
          So may the crown of this our isle
          Re ever welcomed with a smile,
          And, George, that smile be thine!
          Then when the time,--and come it must,
          That crowns and sceptres shall be dust,
          Thou shalt thy race outshine,
          Shalt live in good men's hearts, and tears,
          From age to age, while mem'ry rears
          The proud historic shrine.

     46   FROM THE DIARY OF A POLITICIAN.
     "Through Manchester-square took a canter just now,
     Met the old yellow chariot, and made a low bow;
     This did of course, thinking 'twas loyal and civil,
     But got such a look,--oh! 'twas black as the devil.
     How unlucky!--incog, he was traveling about,
     And I like a noodle must go find him out!
     Mem. When next by the old yellow chariot I ride,
     To remember there is nothing princely inside."
     Tom Moore,

~187~~

          What rueful-looking knight is that,{47}
          With sunken eye and silken hat,

     47 Lord P-r-m, the delicate dandy.

          Laced up in stays to show his waist,
          And highly rouged to show his taste,
          His whiskers meeting 'neath his chin,
          With gooseberry eye and ghastly grin,
          With mincing steps, conceited phrase,
          Such as insipid P- displays:
          These are the requisites to shine
          A dandy, exquisite, divine.

          Ancient Dandies.--A Confession.
          The Doctor{*}, as we learn, once said,
          To Mistress Thrale--
          Howe'er a man be stoutly made,
          And free from ail,
          In flesh and bone, and colour thrive,
          "He's going down at 35."
          Yet Horace could his vigour muster
          And would not till a later lustre f
          One single inch of ground surrender
          To any swain in Cupid's calendar.
          But one I think a jot too low,
          And t'other is too high, I know.
          Yet, what I've found, I'll freely state--
          The thing may do till.--
          But that's a job--for then, in truth,
          One's but a clumsy sort of youth:
          And maugre looks, some evil tongue
          Will say the Dandy is not young:--
          For 'mid the yellow and the sear, {**}
          Though here and there a leaf be green
          No more the summer of the year
          It is, than when one swallow's seen.

     * Johnson.
     t---------------------fuge suspicari
     Cujus octavum trepidavit otas
     Claudere lustrum.--Od. 4.1. ii.
     Now tottering on to forty years,
     My age forbids all jealous fears.

     **  "My May of life is fallen into
     the sear and yellow leaf."--Macbeth.

~188~~

          Pinch'd in behind and 'fore?
          Whose visage, like La Mancha's chief,
          Seems the pale frontispiece to grief,
          As if 'twould ne'er laugh more:
          Whose dress and person both defy
          The poet's pen, the painter's eye,
          'Tis outre tout nature.
          His Arab charger swings his tail,
          Curvets and prances to the gale
          Like Death's pale horse,--
          And neighing proudly seems to say,
          Here Fashion's vot'ries must pay
          Homage of course:
          Tis P-h-m, whom Mrs. H-g-s
          At opera and play-house dodges
          Since he gain'd Josephine;
          Tailors adorn a thousand ways,
          And (though Time won't) men may make Slays;
          The dentist, barber, make repairs,
          New teeth supply, and colour hairs;
          But art can ne'er return the Spring--
          And spite of all that she can do,
          A Beau's a very wretched thing
          At 42!

     The late Princess Charlotte issued an order, interdicting
     any one of her household appearing before her with frightful
     fringes to their leaden heads. In consequence of this cruel
     command, P-r-m, being one of the lords of the bed-chamber,
     was compelled to curtail his immense whiskers. A very
     feeling ode appeared upon the occasion, entitled My
     Whiskers, dedicated to the princess; it was never printed,
     but attributed to Thomas Moore. The Kiss, or Lady Francis W-
     W-'s Frolic, had nearly produced a fatal catastrophe. How
     would poor Lady Anne W-m have borne such a misfortune? or
     what purling stream would have received the divine form of
     the charming Mrs. H-d-s? But alas! he escaped little W-'s
     ball, only to prove man's base ingratitude, for he has
     since cut with both these beauties for the interesting
     little Josephine, the protégée of T------y B-t, and the
     sister of the female Giovanni.

~189~~

          Ye madly vicious, can it be!
          A mother sunk in infamy,
          To sell her child is seen.
          Let Bow-street annals, and Tom B-t,{48}
          Who paid the mill'ner, tell the rest,
          It suits not with our page;
          Just satire while she censures,--feels,--
          Verse spreads the vice when it reveals
          The foulness of the age.
          'Tis half-past five, and fashion's train
          No longer in Hyde Park remain,
          Bon ton cries hence, away;
          The low-bred, vulgar, Sunday throng,
          Who dine at two, are ranged along
          On both sides of the way;
          With various views, these honest folk
          Descant on fashions, quiz and joke,
          Or mark a shy cock down{49};
          For many a star in fashion's sphere
          Can only once a week appear
          In public haunts of town,
          Lest those two ever watchful friends,
          The step-brothers, whom sheriff sends,
          John Doe and Richard Roe,
          A taking pair should deign to borrow,
          To wit, until All Souls, the morrow,
          The body of a beau;

     48  Poor Tom B-t has paid dear for his protection of
     the Josephine: fifteen hundred pounds for millinery in
     twelve months is a very moderate expenditure for so young a
     lady of fashion. It is, to be sure, rather provoking that
     such an ape as Lord ------should take command of the
     frigate, and sail away in defiance of the chartered party,
     the moment she was well found and rigged for a cruize. See
     Common Plea Reports, 1823

     49  The Sunday men, as they are facetiously called in the
     fashionable world, are not now so numerous as formerly: the
     facility of a trip across the Channel enables many a shy
     cock to evade the scrutinizing eye and affectionate
     attachment of the law.

          But Sunday sets the pris'ner free,
          He shows in Park, and laughs with glee
          At creditors and Bum.
          Then who of any taste can bear
          The coarse, low jest and vulgar stare
          Of all the city scum,
          Of fat Sir Gobble, Mistress Fig,
          In buggy, sulky, coach, or gig,
          With Dobbin in the shay?
          At ev'ry step some odious face,
          Of true mechanic cut, will place
          Themselves plump in your way.
          Now onward to the Serpentine,
          A river straight as any line,
          Near Kensington, let's walk;
          Or through her palace gardens stray,
          Where elegantes of the day
          Ogle, congee, and talk.
          Here imperial fashion reigns,
          Here high bred belles meet courtly swains
          By assignation.
          Made at Almack's, Argyle, or rout,
          While Lady Mother walks about
          In perturbation,
          Watching her false peer, or to make
          A Benedict of some high rake,
          To miss a titled prize.
          Here, cameleon-colour'd, see
          Beauty in bright variety,
          Such as a god might prize.
          Here, too, like the bird of Juno,
          Fancy's a gaudy group, that you know,
          Of gay marchands des modes.
          Haberdashers, milliners, fops
          From city desks, or Bond-street shops,
          And belles from Oxford-road,
          Crowds here, commingled, pass and gaze,
          And please themselves a thousand ways;

~191~~

           Some read the naughty rhymes
           Which are on ev'ry alcove writ,
           Immodest, lewd attempt at wit,
           Disgraceful to the times.
           Here Scotland's dandy Irish Earl,{50}
           With Noblet on his arm would whirl,
           And frolic in this sphere;
           With mulberry coat, and pink cossacks,
           The red-hair'd Thane the fair attacks,
           F-'s ever on the leer;
           And when alone, to every belle
           The am'rous beau love's tale will tell,
           Intent upon their ruin.
           Beware, Macduff, the fallen stars!
           Venus aggrieved will fly to Mars;
           There's mischief brewing.
           What mountain of a fair is that,
           Whose jewels, lace, and Spanish hat,
           Proclaim her high degree,
           With a tall, meagre-looking man,
           Who bears her reticule and fan?
           That was Maria D-,
           Now the first favourite at court,

     50 His lordship is equally celebrated in the wars of Mars
     and Venus, as a general in the service of Spain. When Lord
     M-d-ff, in the desperate bombardment of Matagorda (an old
     fort in the Bay of Cadiz), the falling of a fragment of the
     rock, struck by a shell, broke, his great toe; in this
     wounded state he was carried about the alameda in a cherubim
     chair by two bare-legged gallegos, to receive the
     condolations of the grandees, and, we regret to add, the
     unfeeling jeers of the British, who made no scruple to
     assert that his lordship had, as usual, "put his foot in
     it." The noble general would no doubt have added another
     leaf to bis laurel under the auspices of the ex-smuggler,
     late illustrissimo general Ballasteros, had not he suddenly
     become a willing captive to the soul-subduing charms of the
     beauteous Antonia of Terrifa, of whose history and
     melancholy death we may speak hereafter. On a late occasion,
     he has been honoured with the star of the Guelphic order
     (when, for the first time in his life, he went on his
     knees), as some amends for his sudden dismissal from the
     bed-chamber. Noblet, who has long since been placed upon the
     pension list, has recently retired, and is succeeded by a
     charming little Parisian actress who lives in the New Road,
     and plays with the French company now at Tottenham-street
     theatre. Lord L---------has also a little interest in the
     same concern. His lordship's  affaires des cour with
     Antonia, Noblet, and M---------,  though perfectly
     platonic, have proved more expensive than the most
     determined votary to female attractions ever endured: for
     the gratification of this innocent passion, Marr's{*} mighty
     pines have bit the dust, and friendly purses bled.

~192~~

          And, if we may believe report,
          She holds the golden key
          Of the backstairs, and can command
          A potent influence in the land,
          But K------N best can tell;
          Tis most clear, no ill betide us,
          Near the Georgium sidus
          This planet likes to dwell.
          Lovely as light, when morning breaks{51}
          Above the hills in golden streaks,
          Observe yon blushing rose,
          Uxbridge, the theme of ev'ry tongue,
          The sylph that charms the ag'd and young,
          Where grace and virtue glows.
          Gay Lady H-e her lounge may take,{52}
          Reclining near the Indian lake.,
          And think she's quite secure;

     51  The beautiful little countess, the charming goddess of
     the golden locks, was a Miss Campbell, a near relation of
     the Duke of Argyll. She is a most amiable and interesting
     elegante.

     52 Although Lord L-e is the constant attendant of Lady H-,
     report says the attachment is merely platonic. His lordship
     was once smitten with her sister; and having thero suffered
     the most cruel disappointment, consoles himself for his loss
     in the sympathizing society of Lady H------.

     * Marr Forest, belonging to his lordship, producing the
     finest mast pines in the empire; the noble earl has lately
     cut many scores of them ami some old friends, rather than
     balk his fancy.

~193~~

          As well might C-1-ft hope to pass
          Upon the town his C-----r lass
          For genuine and pure.
          See Warwick's charming countess glide,{53}
          With constant Harry by her side,
          Along the gay parterre;
          And look where the loud laugh proclaims
          The cits and their cameleon dames,
          The gaudy Cheapside fair,
          Drest in all colours o' the shop,
          Fashion'd for the Easter hop,
          To grace the civic feast,
          Where the great Lord Mayor presides
          O'er tallow, ribands, rags, and hides,
          The sultan o' the east.
          The would-be poet, Ch-s L-h,{54}
          Comes saunt'ring with his graces three,
          The little gay coquettes.
          After, view the Cyprian corps
          Of well-known traders, many score,
          From Bang to Angel M-tz,
          A heedless, giddy, laughing crew,
          Who'd seem as if they never knew
          Of want or fell despair;
          Yet if unveil'd the heart might be,
          You'd find the demon, Misery,
          Had ta'en possession there.
          Think not that satire will excuse,
          Ye frail, though fair; or that the muse
          Will silent pass ye by:
          To you a chapter she'll devote,
          Where all of fashionable note

     53 Lady Sarah Saville, afterwards Lady Monson, now Countess
     of Warwick, a most beautiful, amiable, and accomplished
     woman. By constant "Harry" is meant her present earl.

     54 See Amatory Poems by Ch-os L-h. We could indulge our
     readers with a curious account of the demolition of the
     Paphian car at Covent Garden theatre, but the story is
     somewhat musty.

~194~~

          Shall find their history.
          "Vice to be hated, needs but be seen;"
          And thus shall ev'ry Paphian queen
          Be held to public view;
          And though protected by a throne,
          The gallant and his Miss be shown
          In colours just and true.
          The countess of ten thousand see,{55}
          The dear delightful Savante B-,
          Who once was sold and bought:
          The magic-lantern well displays
          The scenes of long forgotten days,
          And gives new birth to thought.
          Nay, start not, here we'll not relate
          The break-neck story gossips prate
          Within the Em'rald Isle:
          No spirit gray, or black, or brown,
          We'll conjure up, with hideous frown,
          To chase the dimpled smile.
          In fleeting numbers, as we pass,
          We find these shadows in our glass,
          We move, and they're no more.
          But see where chief of folly's train,

     55 The beautiful and accomplished countess is a lovely
     daughter of Hibernia; her maiden name was P-r, and her
     father an Irish magistrate of high respectability. Her first
     matrimonial alliance with Captain F-r proved unfortunate; an
     early separation was the consequence, which was effected
     through the intervention of a kind friend, Captain J-s of
     the 11th. Shortly afterwards her fine person and superior
     endowments of mind made an impression upon the earl that
     nothing but the entire possession of the lady could allay.
     The affair of Lord A- and Mrs. B- is too well known to need
     repetition--it could not succeed a second time. Abelard F-
     having paid the debt of nature, there was no impediment but
     a visit to the temple of Hymen, on which point the lady was
     determined; and the yielding suitor, wounded to the vital
     part, most readily complied. It is due to the countess to
     admit, that since her present elevation, her conduct has
     been exemplary and highly praiseworthy.

~195~~

          Conceited, simple, rash, and vain,
          Comes lib'ral master G-e,{56}
          A dandy, half-fledged exquisite,
          Who paid nine thousand pounds a night
          To female Giovanni.
          Reader, I think I hear you say,
          "What pleasure had he for his pay?"
          Upon my word, not any;
          For soon as V-t-s got the cash,
          She set off with a splendid dash
          From Op'ra to Paris;
          Left Cl-t and this simple fool,{67}
          Who no doubt's been an easy tool,
          To spend it with Charles H-s.
          See, Carolina comes in view,
          A Lamb, from merry Melbourne's ewe,
          Who scaped the fatal knife.
          H-ll-d's blue stocking rib appears,
          Who makes amends in latter years
          For early cause of strife.
          Catullus George, the red-hair'd bard,
          Whose rhymes, pedantic, crude, and hard,
          He calls translations,
          Follows the fair; a nibbling mouse
          From Westminster, by Cam Hobhouse
          Expell'd his station.
          Now twilight, with his veil of gray,
          The stars of fashion frights away
          The carriage homeward rolls along
          To music-party, cards and song,

     56  A very singular adventure, which occurred in 1823. The
     enamoured swain, after settling an annuity of seven hundred
     pounds per annum upon the fair inconstant, had the
     mortification to find himself abandoned on the very night
     the deeds were completed, the lady having made a precipitate
     retreat, with a more favoured lover, to Paris. The affair
     soon became known, and some friends interfered, when the
     deeds were cancelled.

     57  Captain citizen Cl-t, an exquisite of the first order,
     for a long time the favourite of the reigning sultana.

~196~~

          And many a gay delight.
          The Goths of Essex-street may groan,{58}
          Turn up their eyes, and inward moan,
          They dare not here intrude;
          Dare not attack the rich and great,
          The titled vicious of the state,
          The dissolute and lewd.
          Vice only is, in some folks' eyes,
          Immoral, when in rags she lies,
          By poverty subdued;
          But deck her forth in gaudy vest,
          With courtly state and titled crest,
          She's every thing that's good.
          "Doth Kalpho break the Sabbath-day?
          Why, Kalpho hath no funds to pay;
          How dare he trespass then?
          How dare he eat, or drink, or sleep,
          Or shave, or wash, or laugh, or weep,
          Or look like other men?"
          My lord his concerts gives, 'tis true,
          The Speaker holds his levee too,
          And Fashion cards and dices;
          But these are trifles to the sin
          Of selling apples, joints, or gin--

     58 The present times have very properly been stigmatized as
     the age of cant. The increase of the puritans, the
     smooth-faced evangelical, and the lank-haired sectarian,
     with their pious love-meetings and bible associations, have
     at last roused the slumbering spirit of the constituted
     authorities, who are now making the most vigorous efforts to
     impede the progress of these anti-national and hypocritical
     fanatics, who, mistaking the true dictates of religion and
     benevolence, have, in their inflamed zeal, endeavoured to
     extirpate every species of innocent recreation, and have
     laid formidable siege to honest-hearted mirth and rustic
     revelry. "I am no prophet, nor the son of one; "but if
     ever the noble institutions of my country suffer any
     revolutionary change, it is my humble opinion it will result
     from these sainted associations, from these pious opposers
     of our national characteristics, and the noblest institution
     of our country, the foundation stone of our honour and
     glory, the established church of England. There is (in my
     opinion) more mischief to be apprehended to the state from
     the humbug of piety than from all the violence of froth,
     political demagogues, or the open-mouthed howl of the most
     hungry radicals. Let it be understood I speak not against
     toleration in its most extended sense, but war only with
     hypocrisy and fanaticism, with those of whom Juvenal has
     written--"Qui aurios simulant el baechemalia vivinit."

~197~~

          Low, execrable vices.
          Cease, persecutors, mock reclaimers,
          Ye jaundiced few, ye legal maimers
          Of the lone, poor, and meek;
          Ye moral fishers for stray gudgeons,
          Ye sainted host of old curmudgeons,
          Who ne'er the wealthy seek!
          If moralists ye would appear,
          Attack vice in its highest sphere,
          The cause of all the strife;
          The spring and source from whence does flow
          Pollution o'er the plains below,
          Through all degrees of life. Here, lolling at his ease, in a snug box on the first
circle, in dignified security from the vulgar gaze, he surveys the
congregated mass who fill the arena of the house, deigns occasionally
a condescending nod of recognition to some less fortunate roué, or
younger brother of a titled family, who is forcing his way through the
well-united phalanx of vulgar faces that guard the entrance to Fop's
Alley; or, if he should be in a state of single blessedness, inclines
his head a little forward to cast round an inquiring glance, a sort of
preliminary overture, to some fascinating daughter of fashion, whose
attention he wishes to engage for an amorous interchange of significant
looks and melting expressions during the last act of the opera. For the
first, he would not be thought so outré as to witness it--the attempt
would require a sacrifice of the dessert and Madeira, and completely
revolutionize ~199~~ the regularity of his dinner arrangement. The
divertissement he surveys from the side wings of the stage, to which
privilege he is entitled as an annual subscriber; trifles a little
badinage with some well-known operatic intriguant, or favourite
danseusej approves the finished movements of the male artistes, inquires
of the manager or committee the forthcoming novelties, strolls into the
green room to make his selection of a well-turned ankle or a graceful
shape, and, having made an appointment for some non play night, makes
one of the distinguished group of operatic cognoscenti who form the
circle of taste in the centre of the stage on the fall of the curtain.

This is one, and, perhaps, the most conspicuous portrait of an opera frequenter; but there
are a variety of characters in the same school all equally worthy of a descriptive notice,
and each differing in contour and force of chiaroscuro as much as the one thousand and one
family maps which annually cover the walls of the Royal Academy, to the exclusion of meritorious
performances in a more elevated branch of art. The Dowager Duchess of A------ retains her box
to dispose of her unmarried daughters, and enjoy the gratification of meeting in public the
once flattering groups of noble expectants who formerly paid their ready homage to her charms
and courted her approving smile; but then her ducal spouse was high in favour, and in office,
and now these "summer flies o' the court" are equally steady in their devotion to his successor,
and can scarcely find memory or opportunity to recognise the relict of their late ministerial
patron. Lord E------ and the Marchioness of R.------ subscribe for a box between them, enjoying
the proprietorship in alternate weeks. During the Marchesa's periods of occupation you will
perceive Lady H., and the whole of the blue stocking illuminati, irradiating from this point,
like the tributary stars round some major planet, forming ~200~~ a grand constellation of attraction.
Here new novels, juvenile poets, and romantic tourists receive their fiat, and here too the
characters of one half the fashionable world undergo the fiery ordeal of scrutinization, and
are censured or applauded more in accordance with the prevailing on dits of the day, or the
fabrications of the club, than with any regard to feeling, truth, or decorum. The following
week-, how changed the scene!--the venerable head of the highly-respected Lord E------ graces
the corner, like a Corinthian capital finely chiseled by the divine hand of Praxiteles; the
busy tongue of scandal is dormant for a term, and in her place the Solons of the land, in solemn
thoughtfulness, attend the sage injunctions of their learned chief. Too enfeebled by age and
previous exertion to undergo the fatigues of parliamentary duty, the baron here receives the
visits of his former colleagues, and snatching half an hour from his favourite recreation,
gives a decided turn to the politics of a party by the cogency of his reasoning and the brilliancy
of his arguments. The Earl of F------has a grand box on the ground tier, for the double purpose
of admiring the chaste evolutions of the sylphic daughters of Terpsichore, and of being observed
himself by all the followers of the cameleon-like, capricious goddess, Fashion.

The G------B-----, the wealthy commoner, Fortune's favoured child, retains a box in the best
situation, if not on purpose, yet in fact, to annoy all those within hearing, by the noisy
humour of his Bacchanalian friends, who reel in at the end of the first act of the opera, full
primed with the choicest treasures of his well stocked bins, to quiz the young and modest,
insult the aged and respectable, and annihilate the anticipated pleasures of the scientific
and devotees of harmony, by the coarseness of their attempts at wit, the overpowering clamour
of their conversation, and ~201~~ the loud laugh and vain pretence to taste and critic skill.

The ministerialists may be easily traced by their affectation of consequence, and a certain
air of authority joined to a demi-official royal livery, which always distinguishes the corps
politique, and is equally shared by their highly plumed female partners. The opposition are
equally discernible by outward and visible signs, such as an assumed nonchalance, or apparent
independence of carriage, that but ill suits the ambitious views of the wearer, and sits as
uneasily upon them as their measures would do upon the shoulders of the nation. Added to which,
you will never see them alone; never view them enjoying the passing scene, happy in the society
of their accomplished wives and daughters, but always, like restless and perturbed spirits,
congregating together in conclave, upon some new measure wherewith to sow division in the nation,
and shake the council of the state. And yet to both these parties a box at the opera is as
indispensable as to the finished courtezan, who here spreads her seductive lures to catch the
eye, and inveigle the heart of the inexperienced and unwary.

But what has all this to do with the opera? or where will this romantic correspondent of mine
terminate his satirical sketch? I think I hear you exclaim. A great deal more, Mr. Collegian,
than your philosophy can imagine: you know, I am nothing if not characteristic; and this, I
assure you, is a true portrait of the place and its frequenters. I dare say, you would have
expected my young imagination to have been encompassed with delight, amid the mirth-inspiring
compositions of Corelli, Mozart, or Rossini, warbled forth by that enchanting siren, De Begnis,
the scientific Pasta, the modest Caradori, or the astonishing Catalani:--Heaven enlighten your
unsuspicious mind! Attention to the merits of the ~202~~ performance is the last thing any
fashionable of the present day would think of devoting his time to. No, no, my dear Bernard,
the opera is a sort of high 'Change, where the court circle and people of ton meet to speculate
in various ways, and often drive as hard a bargain for some purpose of interest or aggrandisement,
as the plebeian host of all nations, who form the busy group in the grand civic temple of commerce
on Cornbill. You know, I have (as the phrase is), just come out, and of course am led about
like a university lion, by the more experienced votaries of ton. An accident threw the honourable
Lillyman Lionise into my way the other morning; it was the first time we had met since we were
at Eton: he was sauntering away the tedious hour in the Arcade, in search of a specific for
ennui, was pleased to compliment me on possessing the universal panacea, linked arms immediately,
complained of being devilishly cut over night, proposed an adjournment to Long's--a light dinner--maintenon
cutlets--some of the Queensberry hock{1} (a century and a half old)--ice-punch-six whin's from
an odoriferous hookah--one cup of renovating fluid (impregnated with the Parisian aromatic
{2}); and then, having reembellished our persons, sported{3} a figure at the opera. In the
grand entrance, we enlisted Bob Transit, between whom and the honourable, I congratulated myself
on being in a fair way to be enlightened. Bob knows every body--the exquisite was not so general
in his information; but then he occasionally furnished some little anecdote of the surrounding
elegantes, relative to affairs de l'amour, or pointed out the superlative of the haut class,
without which much of the interesting would have escaped my notice.

     1 The late Duke of Queensberry's famous old hock, which
     since his decease was sold by auction.

     2 A Parisian preparation, which gives a peculiar high
     flavour and sparkling effect to coffee.

     3 An Oxford phrase.

~203~~

In this society, I made my first appearance in the green room; a little, narrow, pink saloon
at the back of the stage, where the dancers congregate and practise before an immense looking-glass
previous to their appearance in public.

To a fellow of warm imagination and vigorous constitution, such a scene is calculated to create
sensations that must send the circling current into rapid motion, and animate the heart with
thrilling raptures of delight. Before the mirror, in all the grace of youthful loveliness and
perfect symmetry of form, the divine little fairy sprite, the all-conquering Andalusian Venus,
Mercandotti, was exhibiting her soft, plump, love-inspiring person in pirouétte: before her
stood the now happy swain, the elegant H------ B-, on whose shoulder rested the Earl of Fe-,
admiring with equal ecstasy the finished movements of his accomplished protégée{4}; on the
right hand of the earl stood the single duke of D--------------e, quizzing the little daughter
of Terpsichore through his eye-glass; on the opposite of the circle was seen the noble

     4 It was very generally circulated, and for some time
     believed, that the charming little Andalusian Venus was the
     natural daughter of the Earl of F-e: a report which had not
     a shadow of truth in its foundation, but arose entirely out
     of the continued interest the earl took in the welfare of
     the lady from the time of her infancy, at which early period
     she was exhibited on the stage of the principal theatre in
     Cadiz as an infant prodigy; and being afterwards carried
     round (as is the custom in Spain) to receive the personal
     approval and trifling presents of the grandees, excited such
     general admiration as a beautiful child, that the Earl of F-
     e, then Lord M- and a general officer in the service of
     Spain, adopted the child, and liberally advanced funds for
     her future maintenance and instruction, extending his bounty
     and protection up to the moment of her fortunate marriage
     with her present husband. It is due to the lady to add, that
     in every instance her conduct has been marked by the
     strictest sense of propriety, and that too in situations
     where, it is said, every attraction was offered to have
     induced a very opposite course.

~204~~

musical amateur B-----h, supported by the director De R-s on one hand, and the communicative
manager, John Ebers, of Bond-street, on the other; in a snug corner on the right hand of the
mirror was seated one of his majesty's most honourable privy council, the Earl of W-----d,
with a double Dollond's operatic magnifier in his hand, studying nature from this most delightful
of all miniature models. "A most perfect divinity," whispered the exquisite. "A glorious fine
study," said Transit,--and, pulling out his card-case and pencil, retired to one corner of
the room, to make a mem., as he called it, of the scene. (See Plate.) "Who the deuce is that
eccentric-looking creature with the Marquis of Hertford?" said I. "Hush," replied the exquisite,
"for heaven's sake, don't expose yourself! Not to know the superlative roué of the age, the
all-accomplished Petersham, would set you down for a barbarian at once." "And who," said I,
"is the amiable fair bending before the admiring Worter?" "An old and very dear acquaintance
of the Earl of F-e, Mademoiselle Noblet, who, it is said, displays much cool philosophy at
the inconstancy of her once enamoured swain, consoling herself for his loss, in the enjoyment
of a splendid annuity." A host of other bewitching forms led my young fancy captive by turns,
as my eye travelled round the magic circle of delight: some were, I found, of that yielding
spirit, which can pity the young heart's fond desire; with others had secured honourable protection:
and if his companion's report was to be credited, there were very few among the enchanting
spirits before yet with whom that happiness which springs from virtuous pure affection was
to be anticipated. If was no place to moralize, but, to you who know my buoyancy of spirit,
and susceptibility of mind, I must confess, the reflection produced a momentary pang of the
keenest misery.

~205~~ After the opera, Bob Transit proposed an adjournment to the Royal Saloon, in Piccadilly,
a place of fashionable resort (said Bob) for shell-fish and sharks, Greeks and pigeons, Cyprians
and citizens, noble and ignoble--in short, a mighty rendezvous, where every variety of character
is to be found, from the finished sharper to the finished gentleman; a scene pregnant with
subject for the pencil of the humorist, and full of the richest materials for the close observer
of men and manners. Hither we retired to make a night of it, or rather to consume the hours
between midnight and morning's dawn. The place itself is fitted up in a very novel and attractive
style of decoration, admirably calculated for a saloon of pleasure and refreshment; but more
resembling a Turkish kiosk than an English tavern. On the ground floor, which is of an oblong
form and very spacious, are a number of divisions enclosed on each side with rich damask curtains,
having each a table and seats for the reception of supper or drinking parties; at the extreme
end, and ~206~~ on each side, mirrors of unusual large dimensions give an infinity of perspective,
which greatly increases the magnificence of the place. In the centre of the room are pedestals
supporting elegant vases filled with choice exotics. A light and tasteful trellis-work surrounds
a gallery above, which forms a promenade round the room, the walls being painted to resemble
a conservatory, in which the most luxuriant shrubs are seen spreading their delightful foliage
over a spacious dome, from the centre of which is suspended a magnificent chandelier. Here
are placed, at stated distances, rustic tables, for the accommodation of those who choose coffee
and tea; and leading from this, on each side, are several little snug private boudoirs for
select parties, perfectly secure from the prying eye of vulgar curiosity, and where only the
privileged few are ever permitted to enter. It was in this place, surrounded by well-known
Greeks, with whom he appeared to be on the most intimate terms, that Transit pointed out to
my notice the eccentric Vicar of K**, the now invisible author of L****, whose aphorisms and
conduct bear not the slightest affinity to each other--nor was he the only clerical present;
at the head of a jolly party, at an adjoining table, sat the ruby-faced Parson John A-----e,
late proprietor of the notorious Gothic Hall, in Pall Mall, a man of first rate wit and talent,
but of the lowest and most depraved habits. "The Divine is a character" said Bob, "who, according
to the phraseology of the ring, is 'good at every thing:' as he came into the world without
being duly licensed, so he thinks himself privileged to pursue the most unlicensed conduct
in his passage through it. As a specimen of his ingenuity in horse-dealing, I'll give you an
anecdote.--It is not long since that the parson invited a party of bucks to dinner, at his
snug little villa on the banks of the Thames, near Richmond, in Surrey. Previous to the repast,
the reverend ~207~~ led his visitors forth to admire the gardens and surrounding scenery, when
just at the moment they had reached the outer gate, a fine noble-looking horse was driven past
in a tilbury by a servant in a smart livery.--'What a magnificent animal!' said the parson;
'the finest action I ever beheld in my life: there's a horse to make a man's fortune in the
park, and excite the envy and notice of all the town.' 'Who does he belong to?' said a young
baronet of the party, who had just come out. 'I'll inquire,' said the parson: 'the very thing
for you, Sir John.' Away posts the reverend, bawling after the servant, 'Will your master sell
that horse, my man?' 'I can't say, sir,' said the fellow, 'but I can inquire, and let you know.'
'Do, my lad, and tell him a gentleman here will give a handsome price for him.' Away trots
the servant, and the party proceed to dinner. As soon as the dessert is brought in, and the
third glass circulated, the conversation is renewed relative to the horse--the whole party
agree in extolling his qualities; when, just in the nick of time, the servant arrives to say
his master being aged and infirm, the animal is somewhat too spirited for him, and if the gentleman
likes, he may have him for one hundred guineas. 'A mere trifle,' vociferates the company. 'Cheap
as Rivington's second-hand sermons,' said the parson. The baronet writes a check for the money,
and generously gives the groom a guinea for his trouble--drives home in high glee--and sends
his servant down next morning to the parson's for his new purchase--orders the horse to be
put into his splendid new tilbury, built under the direction of Sir John Lade--just reaches
Grosvenor-gate from Hamilton-place in safety, when the horse shows symptoms of being a miller.
Baronet, nothing daunted, touches him smartly under the flank, when up he goes on his fore-quarters,
smashes the tilbury into ten thousand pieces, bolts away with the traces and shafts, and leaves
the baronet with a broken head ~208~~ on one side of the road, and his servant with a broken
arm on the other. 'Where the devil did you get that quiet one from, Sir John!' said the Honourable
Fitzroy St-----e, whom the accident had brought to the spot.

'The parson bought him of an old gentleman at Richmond yesterday for me.' 'Done, brown as a
berry,' said Fitzroy: 'I sold him only on Saturday last to the reverend myself for twenty pounds
as an incurable miller. Why the old clerical's turned coper{1}--;a new way of raising the wind--letting
his friends down easy--gave you a good dinner, I suppose, Sir John, and took this method of
drawing the bustle{2} for it: an old trick of the reverend's.' After this it is hardly necessary
to say, the servant was a confederate, and the whole affair nothing more or less than a true
orthodox farce of horse chaunting,{3} got up for the express purpose of raising a temporary
supply."{4}

     1  A horse-dealer.

     2  Money.

     3 Tricking persons into the purchase of unsound or vicious
     horses.

     4 A practice by no means uncommon among a certain
     description of dashing characters, who find chaunting a
     horse to a green one, a snug accidental party at chicken
     hazard, or a confederacy to entrap some inexperienced bird
     of fashion, where he may be plucked by Greek banditti, pay
     exceedingly well for these occasional dinner parties.

At this moment our attention was engaged by the entrance of a party of exquisites and elegantes,
dressed in the very extreme of opera costume, who directed their steps to the regions above
us. "I'll bet a hundred," said the honourable, "I know that leg," eyeing a divine little foot
and a finely turned ankle that was just then discernible from beneath a rich pink drapery,
as the possessor ascended the gallery of the conservatory, lounging on the arm of the Irish
Earl of C------; " the best leg in England, and not a bad figure for an ancient," continued
Lionise: "that is the celebrated Mrs. Bertram, alias Bang--everybody ~209~~ knows Bang; that
is, every body in the fashionable world. She must have been a most delightful creature when
she first came out, and has continued longer in bloom than any of the present houris of the
west; but I forgot you were fresh, and only in training, Heartly--I must introduce you to Bang:
you will never arrive at any eminence among the haut classe unless you can call these beauties
by name." "And who the deuce is Bang?" said I: "not that elegantly-dressed female whom I see
tripping up the gallery stairs yonder, preceded by several other delightful faces." "The same,
my dear fellow: a fallen star, to be sure, but yet a planet round whose orbit move certain
other little twinkling luminaries whose attractive glimmerings are very likely to enlighten
your obscure sentimentality. Bang was the daughter of a bathing-woman at Brighton, from whence
she eloped early in life with a navy lieutenant-has since been well known as a dasher of the
first water upon the pave--regularly sports her carriage in the drive--and has numbered among
her protectors, at various times, the Marquis W------, Lord A------, Colonel C------, and,
lastly, a descendant of the mighty Wallace, who, in an auto-biographical sketch, boasts of
his intimacy with this fascinating cyprian. She has, however, one qualification, which is not
usually found among those of her class--she has had the prudence to preserve a great portion
of her liberal allowances, and is now perfectly independent of the world. We must visit one
of her evening parties in the neighbourhood of Euston-square, when she invites a select circle
of her professional sisters to a ball and supper, to which entertainment her male visitors
are expected to contribute liberally. She has fixed upon the earl, I should think, more for
the honour of the title than with any pecuniary hopes, his dissipation having left him scarce
enough to keep up appearances." "The amiable who precedes her," said I, "is of the same class,
I ~210~~ presume--precisely, and equally notorious." "That is the celebrated Mrs. L------,
better known as Moll Raffle, from the circumstance of her being actually raffled for, some
years since, by the officers of the seventh dragoons, when they were quartered at Rochester:
like her female friend, she is a woman of fortune, said to be worth eighteen hundred per annum,
with which she has recently purchased herself a Spanish cavalier for a husband. A curious anecdote
is related of Moll and her once kind friend, the Marquis of W--------, who is said to have
given her a bond for seven thousand pounds, on a certain great house, not a mile from Hyde-park
corner, which he has since assigned to a fortunate general, the present possessor; who, thinking
his title complete, proceeded to take possession, but found his entry disputed by the lady,
to whom he was eventually compelled to pay the forfeiture of the bond. Come along, my boy,"
said Lionise; "I'll introduce you at once to the whole party, and then you can make your own
selection." "Not at present: I came here for general observation, not private intrigue, and
must confess I have seldom found a more diversified scene."

"I beg pardon, gentlemen," said an easy good-looking fellow, with something rather imposing
in his manner--"Shall I intrude here?--will 'you permit me to take a seat in your box?" "By
all means," replied I; Bob, at the same moment, pressing his elbow into my side, and the exquisite
raising his glass very significantly to his eye, the stranger continued--"A very charming saloon
this, gentlemen, and the company very superior to the general assemblage at such places: my
friend, the Earl of C------, yonder, I perceive, amorously engaged; Lord P------, too, graces
the upper regions with the delightful Josephine: really this is quite the café royal of London;
the accommodation, too, admirable--not merely confined to refreshments; I am told there are
excellent billiard ~211~~ tables, and snug little private rooms for a quiet rubber, or a little
chicken hazard. Do you play, gentlemen? very happy to set you for a main or two, by way of
killing time." That one word, play, let me at once into the secret of our new acquaintance's
character, and fully explained the distant reception and cautious bearing of my associates.
My positive refusal to accommodate produced a very polite bow, and the party immediately retired
to reconnoitre among some less suspicious visitants. "A nibble," said Transit, "from an ivory
turner."{5} "By the honour of my ancestry," said Lionise, "a very finished sharper; I remember
Lord F------ pointing him out to me at the last Newmarket spring meeting, when we met him,
arm in arm, with a sporting baronet. What the fellow was, nobody knows; but he claims a military
title--captain, of course--perhaps has formerly held a lieutenancy in a militia regiment: he
now commands a corps of sappers on the Greek staff, and when he honoured us with a call just
now was on the recruiting service, I should think; but our friend, Heartly, here, would not
stand drill, so he has marched off on the forlorn hope, and is now, you may perceive, concerting
some new scheme with a worthy brother touter,{6} who is on the half pay of the British army,
and receives full pay in the service of the Greeks. We must make a descent into hell some night,"
said Transit, "and sport a few crowns at roulette or rouge et noir, to give Heartly his degree.
We shall proceed regularly upon college principles, old fellow: first, we will visit the Little
Go in King-street, and then drop into the Great Go, alias Watiers, in Piccadilly; after which
we can sup in Crockford's pandemonium among parliamentary pigeons, unfledged

     5 A tats man, a proficient with the bones, one who knows
     every chance upon the dice.

     6 A decoy, who seduces the young or inexperienced to the
     gaming table, and receives a per centage upon their losses.

~212~~ ensigns of the guards, broken down titled legs, and ci-devant bankers, fishmongers,
and lightermen; and here comes the very fellow to introduce us--an old college chum, Charles
Rattle, who was expelled Brazennose for smuggling, and who has since been pretty well plucked
by merciless Greek banditti and Newmarket jockeys, but who bears his losses with the temper
of a philosopher, and still pursues the destructive vice with all the infatuation of the most
ardent devotee." "How d'ye do, old fellows?--how d'ye do? Who would have thought to have met
the philosopher (pointing to me) at such a place as this, among the impures of both sexes,
legs and leg-ees? Come to sport a little blunt with the table or the traders, hey! Heartly?
Always suspected you was no puritan, although you wear such a sentimental visage. Well, old
fellows, I am glad to see you, however,--come, a bottle of Champagne, for I have just cast
off all my real troubles--had a fine run of luck to-night--broke the bank, and bolted with
all the cash. Just in the nick of time-off for Epsom to-morrow--double my bets upon the Derby,
and if the thing comes off right, I'll give somebody a thousand or two to tie me up from playing
again above five pounds stakes as long as I live. The best thing you ever heard in your life--a
double to do. Ned C-----d having heard I had just received a few thousands, by the sale of
the Yorkshire acres, planned it with Colonel T----- to introduce me to the new club, where
a regular plant was to be made, by some of his myrmidons, to clear me out, by first letting
me win a few thousands, when they were to pounce upon me, double the stakes, and finish me
off in prime style, fleecing me out of every guinea--very good-trick and tie, you know, is
fair play--and for this very honest service, my friend, the colonel, was to receive a commission,
or per centage, in proportion to my losses: the very last man in the world that the old pike
could ~213~~ have baited for in that way--the colonel's down a little, to be sure, but not
so low as to turn confederate to a leg--so suppressed his indignation at the proposition, and
lent himself to the scheme, informing me of the whole circumstances--well, all right--we determined
to give the old one a benefit--dined with him to-day--a very snug party--devilish good dinner--superb
wines--drank freely--punished his claret--and having knocked about Saint Hugh's bones{7} until
I was five thousand in pocket, politely took my leave, without giving the parties their revenge.
Never saw a finer scene in the course of my life-such queer looks, and long faces, and smothered
wailings when they found themselves done by a brace of gudgeons, whom they had calculated upon
picking to the very bones! Come, old fellows, a toast: Here's Fishmonger's Hall, and may every
suspected gudgeon prove a shark."

The bottle now circulated freely, and the open-hearted Rattle delighted us with the relation
of some college anecdotes, which I shall reserve for a hearty laugh when we meet. The company
continued to increase with the appearance of morning; and here might be seen the abandoned
profligate, with his licentious female companion, completing the night's debauch by the free
use of intoxicating liquors--the ruined spendthrift, fresh from the gaming-table, loudly calling
for wine, to drown the remembrance of his folly, and abusing the drowsy waiter only to give
utterance to his irritated feelings. In a snug corner might be seen a party of sober, quiet-looking
gentlemen, taking their lobster and bucellas, whose first appearance would impress you with
the belief of their respectability, but whom, upon inquiry, you would discover to be Greek
banditti, retired hither to divide their ill gotten spoils. It was among a party of this description
that Rattle pointed out a celebrated writer, whose lively style and accurate description of

     7 Saint Hugh's bones, a cant phrase for dice.

~214~~ men and manners display no common mind. Yet here he was seen associated with the most
depraved of the human species--the gambler by profession, the common cheat! What wonder that
such connexions should have compelled him for a time to become an exile to his country, and
on his return involved him in a transaction that has ended in irretrievable ruin and disgrace?
"By the honour of my ancestry," said Lionise, "yonder is that delectable creature, old Crony,
the dinner many that is the most surprising animal we have yet found among the modern discoveries--polite
to and point--always well dressed--keeps the best society--or, I should say, the best society
keeps him: to an amazing fund of the newest on dits and anecdotes of ton, always ready cut
and dried, he joins a smattering of the classics, and chops logic with the learned that he
may carve their more substantial fare gratis; has a memory tenacious as a chief judge on matter
of invitation, and a stomach capacious as a city alderman in doing honour to the feast; pretends
to be a connoisseur in wines, although he never possessed above one bottle at a time in his
cellaret, I should think, in the whole course of his life; talks about works of art and virtu
as if Sir Joshua Reynolds had been his nurse--Claude his intimate acquaintance--or Praxiteles
his great great grandfather. The fellow affects a most dignified contempt for the canaille,
because, in truth, they never invite him to dinner--is on the free list of all the theatres,
from having formerly been freely hiss'd upon their boards--a retired tragedy king on a small
pension, with a republican stomach, who still enacts the starved apothecary at home, from penury,
and liberally crams his voracious paunch, stuffing like Father Paul, when at the table of others.
With these habits, he has just managed to scrape together some sixty pounds per annum, upon
which, by good management, he contrives to live like an emperor; for instance, he keeps a regular
book of ~215 invitations, numbers his friends according to the days of the year, and divides
and subdivides them in accordance with their habits and pursuits, so that an unexpected invitation
requires a reference to his journal: if you invite him for Saturday next, he will turn to his
tablets, apologise for a previous engagement, run his eye eagerly down the column for an occasional
absentee, and then invite himself for some day in the ensuing week, to which your politeness
cannot fail to accede. You will meet him in London, Brighton, Bath, Cheltenham, and Margate
during the fashionable periods; at all of which places he has his stated number of dinner friends,
where his presence is as regularly looked for as the appearance of the swallow. Among the play
men he is useful as a looker on, to make one at the table when they are thin of customers,
or to drink a young one into a proper state for plucking: in other society he coins compliments
for the fair lady of the mansion, extols his host's taste and good fellowship at table, tells
a smutty story to amuse the bon vivants in their cups, or recites a nursery rhyme to send the
children quietly to bed; and in this manner Crony manages to come in for a good dinner every
day of his life. Call on him for a song, and he'll give you, what he calls, a free translation
of a Latin ode, by old Walter de Mapes, Archdeacon of Oxford in the eleventh century, a true
gourmands prayer--

     1 Mihi est propositum in tabernâ mon.'
     I'll try and hum you Crony's English version of the
     CANTILENA.

     'I'll in a tavern end my days, midst boon companions merry,
     Place at my lips a lusty flask replete with sparkling sherry,
     That angels, hov'ring round, may cry, when I lie dead as door-nail,
     'Rise, genial deacon, rise, and drink of the well of life eternal.'

     *****

     ~216~~
     'Various implements belong to ev'ry occupation;
     Give me an haunch of venison--and a fig for inspiration!
     Verses and odes without good cheer, I never could indite 'em;
     Sure he who meagre, days devised is d-----d ad infinitum!

     *****

     'Mysteries and prophetic truths, I never could unfold 'em
     Without a flagon of good wine and a slice of cold ham;
     But when I've drained my liquor out, and eat what's in the dish up,
     Though I am but an arch-deacon, I can preach like an arch-
     bishop.'"

"A good orthodox ode," said Transit, "and admirably suited to the performer, who, after all,
it must be allowed, is a very entertaining fellow, and well worthy of his dinner, from the
additional amusement he affords. I remember meeting him in company with the late Lord Coleraine,
the once celebrated Colonel George Hanger, when he related an anecdote of the humorist, which
his lordship freely admitted to be founded on fact. As I have never seen it in print, or heard
it related by any one since, you shall have it instanter: It is well known that our present
laughter-loving monarch was, in earlier years, often surrounded, when in private, by a coruscation
of wit and talent, which included not only the most distinguished persons in the state, but
also some celebrated bon vivants and amateur vocalists, among whom the names of the Duke of
Orleans, Earl of Derby, Charles James Fox, Richard Brinsley Sheridan, the facetious poet lauréat
to the celebrated Beefsteak club, Tom Hewardine, Sir John Moore, Mr Brownlow, Captain Thompson,
Bate Dudley, Captain Morris, and Colonel George Hanger, formed the most conspicuous characters
at the princely anacreontic board. But

    'Who would be grave--when wine can save
     The heaviest soul from thinking,
     And magic grapes give angel's shapes
     To every girl we're drinking!'

~217~~ It was on one of these festive occasions, when whim, and wit, and sparkling wine combined
to render the festive scene the 'Feast of reason and the flow of soul,' that the Prince of
Wales invited himself and his brother, the Duke of York, to dine with George Hanger. An honour
so unlooked for, and one for which George was so little prepared (as he then resided in obscure
lodgings near Soho-square), quite overpowered the Colonel, who, however, quickly recovering
his surprise, assured his royal highness of the very high sense he entertained of the honour
intended him, but lamented it was not in his power to receive him, and his illustrious brother,
in a manner suitable to their royal dignity. 'You only wish to save your viands, George,' said
the prince: 'we shall certainly dine with you on the day appointed; and whether you reside
on the first floor or the third, never mind--the feast will not be the less agreeable from
the altitude of the apartment, or the plainness of the repast.' Thus encouraged, George was
determined to indulge in a joke with his royal visitors. On the appointed day, the prince and
duke arrived, and were shown up stairs to George's apartments, on the second floor, where a
very tasteful banquet was set out, but more distinguished by neatness than splendour: after
keeping his illustrious guests waiting a considerable period beyond the time agreed on, by
way of sharpening their appetites, the prince good-humouredly inquired what he meant to give
them for dinner?' Only one dish,' said George; 'but that one will, I flatter myself, be a novelty
to my royal guests, and prove highly palatable.' 'And what may that be?' said the prince. 'The
wing of a wool-bird,' replied the facetious colonel. It was in vain the prince and duke conjectured
what this strange title could import, when George appeared before them with a tremendous large
red baking dish, ~218~~ smoking hot, in which was supported a fine well-browned shoulder of
mutton, dropping its rich gravy over some crisp potatoes. The prince and his brother enjoyed
the joke amazingly, and they have since been heard to declare, they never ate a heartier meal
in their life, or one (from its novelty to them in the state in which it was served up), which
they have relished more. George had, however, reserved a bonne bouche, in a superb dessert
and most exquisite wines, for which the prince had heard he was famous, and which was, perhaps,
the principal incitement to the honour conferred."

After a night spent in the utmost hilarity, heightened by the vivacity and good-humour of my
associates, to which might be added, the full gratification of my prevailing penchant for the
observance of character, we were on the point of departing, when Transit, ever on the alert
in search of variety, observed a figure whom (in his phrase) he had long wished to book; in
a few moments a sketch of this eccentric personage was before us. "That is the greatest original
we have yet seen," said our friend Bob: "he is now in the honourable situation of croupier
to one of the most notorious hells in the metropolis. This poor devil was once a master tailor
of some respectability, until getting connected with a gang of sharpers, he was eventually
fleeced of all his little property: his good-natured qualifications, and the harmless pleasantries
with which he abounds, pointed him out as a very proper person to act as a confederate to the
more wealthy legs; from a pigeon he became a bird of prey, was enlisted into the corps, and
regularly initiated into all the diabolical mysteries of the black art. For some time he figured
as a decoy upon the town, dressed in the first style of fashion, and driving an unusually fine
horse and elegant Stanhope, until a circumstance, arising out of a ~219~~ joke played off upon
him by his companions, when in a state of intoxication, made him so notorious, that his usefulness
in that situation was entirely frustrated, and, consequently, he has since been employed within
doors, in the more sacred mysteries of the Greek temple. The gentleman I mean is yonder, with
the Joliffe tile and sharp indented countenance: his real name is B------; but he has now obtained
the humorous cognomen of 'The subject' from having been, while in a state of inebriety, half
stripped, put into a sack, and in this manner conveyed to the door of Mr. Brooks, the celebrated
anatomist in Blenheim-street, by a hackney night-coachman, who was known to the party as the
resurrection Jarvey. On his being deposited in this state at the lecturer's door, by honest
Jehu, who offered him for sale, the surgeon proceeded to examine his subject, when, untying
the sack, he discovered the man was breathing: 'Why, you scoundrel,' said the irritable anatomist,
'the man's not dead.' 'Not dead!' re-echoed coachee, laughing at the joke, 'Why, then, kill
him when you want him!' The consequence of this frolic had, however, nearly proved more serious
than the projectors anticipated: the anatomist, suspecting it was some trick to enter his house
for burglarious purposes, gave the alarm, when Jarvey made his escape; but poor B------was
secured, and conveyed the next morning to Marlborough-street, where it required all the ingenuity
of a celebrated Old Bailey solicitor to prevent his being committed for the attempt to rob
a bonehouse."

After this anecdote, we all agreed to separate. Transit would fain have led us to the Covent-garden
finish, which he describes as being unusually rich in character; but this was deferred until
another night, when I shall introduce you to some new acquaintances.--Adieu. Lady Mary Oldstyle
and the D'Almaine family are off to-morrow for Brighton, from which place expect some few descriptive
sketches.

Horatio Heartly.

THE SPREAD,{1} OR WINE PARTY AT BRAZEN-NOSE.

~220~~

         "Hear, Momus, hoar! blithe sprite, whose dimpling cheek
          Of quips, and cranks ironic, seems to speak,
          Who lovest learned victims, and whose shrine
          Groans with the weight of victims asinine.
          Nod with assent! thy lemon juice infuse!
          Though of male sex, I woo thee for a Muse."

A college wine party I could very well conceive from the specimen I had already of my companion's
frolicsome humours, was not unlikely to produce some departure from college rules which might
eventually involve me in rustication, fine, or imposition. To avoid it was impossible; it was
the first invitation of an early friend, and must be obeyed. The anticipation of a bilious
head-ache on the morrow, or perhaps a first appearance before, or lecture from, the vice-chancellor,
principal, or proctor, made me somewhat tardy in my appearance at the spread. The butler was
just marching a second

     1 A spread. A wine party of from thirty to one hundred and
     twenty persons. The party who gives the spread generally
     invites all the under-graduates he is acquainted with; a
     dessert is ordered either from Jubber's, or Sadler's, for
     the number invited, for which he is charged at per head.

~221~~ reinforcement of black men, or heavy artillery from the college magazine, across the
quadrangle, for the use of the dignitaries' table; when I, a poor solitary freshman, advanced
with sentimental awe and fearful stride beneath the arched entrance of Brazen-nose. Where Eglantine's
rooms were situated I had no means of knowing, his card supplying only the name of his college;
to make some inquiry would be necessary, but of whom, not a creature but what appeared much
too busily employed, as they ran to and fro laden with wine and viands, to answer the interrogatories
of a stranger. I was on the point of retreating to obtain the requisite information from the
waiter at the Mitre, when old Mark Supple made his appearance, with "Your servant, sir: I have
been in search of you at your inn, by command of Mr. Eglantine, take notice--who with a large
party of friends are waiting your company to a spread." "A large party, Mark?" said I, suspecting
there was some secret drama in rehearsal, in which I was to play a principal part. "A very
large party, sir, and a very extraordinary one too, take notice--such a collection as I never
saw before within the walls of a college--living curiosities, take notice--all the comicals
of Oxford brought together,{2} and this 2 This adventure, strange as it may appear, actually
occurred a short time since, when Mr. J*****n of Brazen-nose invited the characters here named
to an entertainment in the College. Sir Richard Steele, when on a visit to Edinburgh, indulged
in a similar freak: he made a splendid feast, and whilst the servants were wondering for what
great personages it was intended, he sent them into the streets, to collect all the eccentrics,
beggars, and poor people, that chance might throw in their way, and invite them to his house.
A pretty large party being mustered, they were well plied with whiskey-punch and wine; when,
forgetting their cares, and free from all restraint, they gave loose to every peculiarity of
their respective characters. When the entertainment was over, Sir Richard declared, that besides
the pleasure of filling so many hungry bellies, and enjoying an hour of rich amusement, he
had gleaned from them humour enough to form a good comedy, or at least a farce.

THE SPREAD, OR WINE PARTY AT BRAZEN-NOSE 223

is what Mr. Eglantine calls his museum of character, but which I should call a regiment of
caricatures, take notice--but I heard him say, that he had invited them on purpose to surprise
you; that he knew you was fond of eccentricity, and that he thought he had prepared a great
treat. I only wish he may get rid of them as easily as he brought them there, for if the bull-dogs
should gain scent of them there would be a pretty row, take notice." Mark's information, instead
of producing the alarm he evidently anticipated, had completely dispelled all previous fears,
and operated like the prologue to a rich comedy, from which I expected to derive considerable
merriment: following, therefore, my conductor up one flight of stairs on the opposite side
of the space from which I had entered, I found myself at the closed oak of my friend. "Mr.
Eglantine is giving them a chaunt" said Mark, who had applied his ear to the key-hole of the
door: "we must wait till the song is over, or you will be fined in a double bumper of bishop,
for interrupting the stave, take notice." Curiosity prompted me to follow Mark's example, when
I overheard Horace chanting part of an old satirical ballad on John Wilkes, to the tune of
the Dragon of Wantley; commencing with--

And ballads I have heard rehearsed By harmonists itinerant, Who modern worthies celebrate,
Yet scarcely make a dinner on't. Some of whom sprang from noble race, And some were in a pig-sty
born, Dependent upon royal grace Or triple tree of Tyburn.

CHORUS. John Wilkes he was for Middlesex, They chose him knight of the shire: He made a fool
of alderman Bull, And call'd parson Home a liar.

~224~~ The moment silence was obtained, old Mark gave three distinct knocks at the door, when
Horace himself appeared, and we were immediately admitted to the temple of the Muses; where,
seated round a long table, appeared a variety of characters that would have rivalled (from
description) the Beggars' Club in St. Giles's--the Covent-Garden Finish--or the once celebrated
Peep o' day boys in Fleet-lane. At the upper end of the table were Tom Echo and Bob Transit,
the first smoking his cigar, the second sketching the portraits of the motley group around
him on the back of his address cards; at the lower end of the room, on each side of the chair
from which Eglantine had just risen to welcome me, sat little Dick Gradus, looking as knowing
as an Old Bailey counsel dissecting a burglary case, and the honourable Lillyman Lionise, the
Eton exquisite, looking as delicate and frightened as if his whole system of ethics was likely
to be revolutionized by this night's entertainment. To such a society a formal introduction
was of course deemed essential; and this favour Horace undertook by recommending me to the
particular notice of the crackademonians (as he was pleased to designate the elegant assemblage
by whom we were then surrounded), in the following oration: "Most noble cracks, and worthy
cousin trumps--permit me to introduce a brother of the togati, fresh as a new-blown rose, and
innocent as the lilies of St. Clement's. Be unto him, as ye have been to all gownsmen from
the beginning, ever ready to promote his wishes, whether for spree or sport, in term or out
of term--against the Inquisition and their bull-dogs--the town raff and the bargees--well blunted
or stiver cramped--against dun or don--nob or big wig--so may you never want a bumper of bishop:
and thus do I commend him to your merry keeping." "Full charges, boys," said Echo, "fill up
their glasses, Count Dennett{3}; 3 Count Dennett, hair-dresser at Corpus and Oriel Colleges,
a very eccentric man, who has saved considerable property; celebrated for making bishops' wigs,
playing at cribbage, and psalm-singing.

~225~~Here's Brother Blackmantle of Brazen-nose." "A speech, a speech!" vociferated all the
party. "Yes, worthy brother cracks," replied I, "you shall have a speech, the very acme of
oratory; a brief speech, composed by no less a personage than the great Lexicographer himself,
and always used by him on such occasions at the club in Ivy-lane. Here's all your healths,
and Esto perpétua." "Bravo!" said Eglantine;" the boy improves. Now a toast, a university lass--come,
boys, The Doctor's Daughter; and then a song from Crotchet C--ss."{4}

          BURTON ALE.
          AN ANCIENT OXFORD DITTY.

          Of all the belles who Christ Church bless,
          None's like the doctor's daughter{5};
          Who hates affected squeamishness
          Almost as much as water.
          Unlike your modern dames, afraid
          Of Bacchus's caresses;
          She far exceeds the stoutest maid
          Of excellent queen Bess's.

          Hers were the days, says she, good lack,
          The days to drink and munch in;
          When butts of Burton, tuns of sack,
          Wash'd down an ox for luncheon.
          Confound your nimpy-pimpy lass,
          Who faints and fumes at liquor;
          Give me the girl that takes her glass
          Like Moses and the vicar.

     4 Mr. C--ss, otherwise Crotchet C--ss, bachelor of music,
     and organist of Christ Church College, St. John's College,
     and St. Mary's Church. An excellent musician, and a jolly
     companion: he published, some time since, a volume of
     chants.

     5 A once celebrated university toast, with whose
     eccentricities we could fill a volume; but having received
     an intimation that it would be unpleasant to the lady's
     feelings, we gallantly forbear.

~226~~

          True emblem of immortal ale,
          So famed in British lingo;
          Stout, beady, and a little stale--
          Long live the Burton stingo!

"A vulgar ditty, by my faith," said the exquisite, "in the true English style, all fol de rol,
and a vile chorus to split the tympanum of one's auricular organs: do, for heaven's sake, Echo,
let us have some divertissement of a less boisterous character." "Agreed," said Eglantine,
winking at Echo; "we'll have a round of sculls. Every man shall sing a song, write a poetical
epitaph on his right hand companion, or drink off a double dose of rum booze."{6} "Then I shall
be confoundedly cut," said Dick Gradus, "for I never yet could chant a stave or make a couplet
in my life." "And I protest against a practice," said Lionise, "that has a tendency to trifle
with one's transitory tortures." "No appeal from the chair," said Eglantine: "another bumper,
boys; here's The Fair Nuns of St. Clement's." "To which I beg leave to add," said Echo, "by
way of rider, their favourite pursuit, The Study of the Fathers." By the time these toasts
had been duly honoured, some of the party displayed symptoms of being moderately cut, when
Echo commenced by reciting his epitaph on his next friend, Bob Transit:--

          Here rests a wag, whose pencil drew
          Life's characters of varied hue,
          Bob Transit--famed in humour's sphere
          For many a transitory year.
          Though dead, still in the "English Spy"
          He'll live for ever to the eye.
          Here uncle White{7} reclines in peace,
          Secure from nephew and from niece.

     6 Rum booze--Flip made of white or port wine, the yolks of
     eggs, sugar and nutmeg.

     7  Uncle White, a venerable bed-maker of All Souls' College,
     eighty-three years of age; has been in the service of the
     college nearly seventy years: is always dressed in black,
     and wears very largo silver knee and shoe-buckles; his hair,
     which is milk-white, is in general tastefully curled: he is
     known "to, and called uncle by, every inhabitant of the
     university, and obtained the cog-nomen from his having an
     incredible number of nephews and nieces in Oxford. In
     appearance he somewhat resembles a clergyman of the old
     school.

~227~~

          Of All-Souls' he, alive or dead;
          Of milk-white name, the milk-white head.
          By Uncle White.
          Here lies Billy Chadwell,{8}
          Who perform'd the duties of a dad well.

               BY BILLY CHADWELL.
          Ye maggots, now's your time to crow:
          Old Boggy Hastings{9} rests below.

               BY BOGGY HASTINGS.
          A grosser man ne'er mix'd with stones
          Than lies beneath--'Tis Figgy Jones.{10}

               BY FIGGY JONES.
          Here Marquis Wickens{11} lies incrust,
          In clay-cold consecrated dust:
          No more he'll brew, or pastry bake;
          His sun is set--himself a cake.

     8 Billy Chadwell, of psalm-singing notoriety, since dead;
     would imitate syncope so admirably, as to deceive a whole
     room full of company--in an instant he would become pale,
     motionless, and ghastly as death; the action of his heart
     has even appeared to be diminished: his sham fits, if
     possible, exceeded his fainting. He was very quarrelsome
     when in his cups; and when he had aggravated any one to the
     utmost, to save himself from a severe beating would
     apparently fall into a most dreadful fit, which never failed
     to disarm his adversary of his rage, and to excite the
     compassion of every by-stander.

     9  Old Boggy Hastings supplies members of the university and
     college servants who are anglers with worms and maggots.

     10  Tommy J***s, alias Figgy Jones, an opulent grocer in the
     High-street, and a common-councilman in high favour with the
     lower orders of the freemen; a sporting character.

     11  Marquis Wickens  formerly a confectioner, and now a
     common brewer. He accumulated considerable property as a
     confectioner, from placing his daughters, who were pretty
     genteel girls, behind his counter, where they attracted a
     great many gownsmen to the shop. No tradesman ever gained a
     fortune more rapidly than this man: as soon as he found
     himself inde-pendent of the university, he gave up his shop,
     bought the Sun Inn, built a brewhouse, and is now gaining as
     much money by selling beer as he formerly did by
     confectionery.

~228~~

               BY MARQUIS WICKENS.
          Ye roués all, be sad and mute;
          Who now shall cut the stylish suit?
          Buck Sheffield's{12 }gone--Ye Oxford men,
          Where shall ye meet his like again?

               BY BUCK SHEFFIELD.
          MacLean{13} or Tackle, which you will,
          In quiet sleeps beneath this hill.
          Ye anglers, bend with one accord;
          The stranger is no more abroad.

               BY MACLEAN.
          Here rests a punster, Jemmy Wheeler{14}
          In wit and whim a wholesale dealer;
          Unbound by care, he others bound,
          And now lies gathered underground.

     12  Sheffield, better known by the name of Buck Sheffield, a
     master tailor and a member of the common council.

     13  MacLean, an old bacchanalian Scotchman, better known by
     the name of Tackle: a tall thin man, who speaks the broad
     Scotch dialect; makes and mends fishing-tackle for members
     of the university; makes bows and arrows for those who
     belong to the Archery Society; is an indifferent musician,
     occasionally amuses under-graduates in their apartments by
     playing to them country dances and marches on the flute or
     violin. He published his Life a short time since, in a thin
     octavo pamphlet, entitled "The Stranger Abroad, or The
     History of Myself," by MacLean.

     14 Jemmy Wheeler of Magpie-lane, a bookbinder, of punning
     celebrity; has published two or three excellent versified
     puns in the Oxford Herald. He is a young man of good natural
     abilities,
but unfortunately applies them occasionally to a loose purpose.

~229~~

               BY JEMMY WHEELER.
          A speedy-man, by nimble foe,
          Lies buried in the earth below:
          The Baron Perkins,{15} Mercury
          To all the university.
          Men of New College, mourn his fate,
          Who early died by drinking late.

               BY BARON PERKINS.
          Ye Oxford duns, you're done at last;
          Here Smiler W----d{16} is laid fast.
          No more his oak ye need assail;
          He's book'd inside a wooden jail.

               BY SMILER W---- OF C---- COLLEGE.
          A thing called exquisite rests here:
          For human nature's sake I hope,
          Without uncharitable trope,
          'Twill ne'er among us more appear.

     15  William Perkins, alias Baron Perkins, alias the Baron, a
     very jovial watchman of Holywell, the New College speedy-
     man,{*} and factotum to New College.

     16  Mr. W----d, alias   Smiler  W----d, a commoner   of
     ----.   This gentleman is always laughing or smiling; is
     long-winded, and consequently pestered with duns, who are
     sometimes much chagrined by repeated disappointments; but
     let them be ever so crusty, he never fails in laughing them
     into a good humour before they leave his room.

     It was over Smiler's oak in----, that some wag had printed
     and stuck up the following notice:

          Men traps and spring guns
          Set here to catch duns.

     * A speedy-man at New College is a person employed to take
     a letter to the master of Winchester school from the warden
     of New College, acquaint-ing him that a fellowship or
     scholarship is become vacant in the college, and requiring
     him to send forthwith the next senior boy. The speedy-man
     always performs his journey on foot, and within a given
     time.

~230~~

               BY LILLYMAN LIONISE.
          Here rests a poet--heaven keep him quiet,
          For when above he lived a life of riot;
          Enjoy'd his joke, and drank his share of wine--
          A mad wag he, one Horace Eglantine.{17}

The good old orthodox beverage now began to display its potent effects upon the heads and understandings
of the party. All restraint being completely banished by the effect of the liquor, every one
indulged in their characteristic eccentricities. Dick Gradus pleaded his utter incapability
to sing or produce an impromptu rhyme, but was allowed to substitute a prose epitaph on the
renowned school-master of Magdalen parish, Fatty T--b,{18} who lay snoring under the table.
"It shall be read over him in lieu of burial service," said Echo. "Agreed, agreed," vociferated
all the party; and Jemmy

     17 This whim of tagging rhymes and epitaphs, adopted by
     Horace Eglantine, is of no mean authority. During the
     convivial administration of Lord North, when the ministerial
     dinners were composed of such men as the Lords Sandwich,
     Weymouth, Thurlow, Richard Rigby, &c, various pleasantries
     passed current for which the present time would be deemed
     too refined. Among others, it was the whim of the day to
     call upon each member, after the cloth was drawn, to tag a
     rhyme to the name of his left hand neighbour. It was first
     proposed by Lord Sandwich, to raise a laugh against the
     facetious Lord North, who happened to sit next to a Mr.
     Mellagen, a name deemed incapable of a rhyme. Luckily,
     however, for Lord North, that gentleman had just informed
     him of an accident that had befallen him near the pump in
     Pall Mall; when, therefore, it came to his turn, he wrote
     the following distich:--

          Oh! pity poor Mr. Mellagen,
          Who walking along Pall Mall,
          Hurt his foot when down he fell,
          And fears he won't get well again.

     18 Fatty T----, better known as the sixpenny schoolmaster:
     a little fat man, remarkable for his love of good living.

~231~~

Jumps,{19} the parish clerk of Saint Peter's, was instantly mounted on a chair, at the head
of the defunct schoolmaster, to recite the following whim:--

               Epitaph on a Glutton.

          Beneath this table lie the remains of Fatty T***;
          Who more than performed the duties of
          An excellent eater, an unparalleled drinker, and
          A truly admirable sleeper.
          His stomach was as disinterested
          As his appetite was good; so that
          His impartial tooth alike chewed
          The mutton of the poor,and
          The turtle of the rich.

     19 James James, alias Jemmy Jumps, alias the Oxford Caleb
     Quotum, a stay-maker, and parish-clerk of Saint Peter le
     Bailey--plays the violin to parties on water excursions,
     attends public-house balls--is bellows-blower and factotum
     at the music-room--attends as porter to the Philharmonic and
     Oxford Choral Societies--is constable of the race-course
     and race balls--a bill distributor and a deputy collector of
     poor rates--calls his wife his solio. He often amuses his
     companions at public-houses by reciting comic tales in
     verse. A woman who had lost a relative desired Jemmy
     Jumps to get a brick grave built. On digging up a piece
     of ground which had not been opened for many years, he
     discovered a very good brick grave, and, to his great joy,
     also discovered that its occupant had long since mouldered
     into dust. He cleaned the grave out, procured some reddle
     and water, brushed the bricks over with it, and informed
     the person that he had a most excellent second-hand grave
     to sell as good as  new, and if she thought it would suit
     her poor departed friend, would let her have it at half the
     price of a new one: this was too good an offer to be
     rejected; but Jemmy found, on measuring the coffin, that his
     second-hand grave was too short, and consequently was
     obliged to dig the earth away from the end of the grave and
     beat the bricks in with a beetle, before it would admit its
     new tenant.

~232~~

          He was a zealous opposer of the Aqua-arian heresy,
          A steady devourer of beef-steaks,
          A stanch and devout advocate for spiced bishop,
          A firm friend to Bill Holland's double X, and
          An active disseminator of the bottle,
          He was ever uneasy unless employed upon
          The good things of this world; and
          The interment of a swiss or lion,
          Or the dissolution of a pasty,
          Was his great delight.
          He died
          Full of drink and victuals,
          In the undiminished enjoyment of his digestive faculties,
          In the forty-fifth year of his appetite.
          The collegians inscribed this memento,
          In perpetual remembrance of
          His pieous knife and fork.

"Very well for a trencher man," said Horace; "now we must have a recitation from Strasburg.{20}
Come, you jolly old teacher of Hebrew, mount the rostrum, and "give us a taste of your quality."
"Ay, or by heavens we'll baptize him with a bumper of bishop," said Echo. "For conscience sake,
mishter Echo, conshider vat it is you're about; I can no more shpeek in English than I can
turn Christian--I've drank so much of your red port to-day as voud make anoder Red Sea." "Ay,
and you shall be drowned in it, you old Sheenie," said Tom, "if you don't give us a speech."
"A speech, a speech!" resounded from all

     {20} Strasburg, an eccentric Jew, who gave lessons in Hebrew
     to members of the university.

~233~~the yet living subjects of the party. "Veil, if I musht, I musht; but I musht do it by
shubstitute then; my old friend, Mark Supple here, vill give you the history of Tom Tick."
To this Echo assented, on account of the allusions it bore to the Albanians, some of whom were
of the party. Old Mark, mounted on the chair at the upper end of the table, proceeded with
the tale.

THE OXFORD RAKE'S PROGRESS.

          Tom was a tailor's heir,
          A dashing blade,
          Whose sire in trade
          Enough had made,
          By cribbage, short skirts, and little capes,
          Long bills, and items for buckram, tapes,
          Buttons, twist, and small ware;
          Which swell a bill out so delightfully,
          Or perhaps I should say frightfully,

~234~~

          That is, if it related to myself.
          Suffice it to be told
          In wealth he roll'd,
          And being a fellow of some spirit,
          Set up his coach;
          To 'scape reproach,
          He put the tailor on the shelf,
          And thought to make his boy a man of merit.
          On old Etona's classic ground,
          Tom's infant years in circling round
          Were spent 'mid Greek and Latin;
          The boy had parts both gay and bright,
          A merry, mad, facetious sprite,
          With heart as soft as satin.
          For sport or spree Tom never lack'd;
          A con{21} with all, his sock he crack'd
          With oppidan or gownsman:
          Could smug a sign, or quiz the dame,
          Or row, or ride, or poach for game,
          With cads, or Eton townsmen.
          Tom's admiral design'd,
          Most dads are blind
          To youthful folly,
          That Tom should be a man of learning,
          To show his parent's great discerning,
          A parson rich and jolly.
          To Oxford Tom in due time went,
          Upon degree D.D. intent,
          But more intent on ruin:
          A Freshman, steering for the Port of Stuff's,{22}
          Round Isle Matricula, and Isthmus of Grace,
          Intent on living well and little doing.
          Here Tom came out a dashing blood,
          Kept Doll at Woodstock, and a stud
          For hunting, race, or tandem;
          Could bag a proctor, floor a raff,
          Or stifle e'en a hull-dog's gaff,
          Get bosky, drive at random.

     21 Eton phraseology--A friend.

     22  Oxford phraseology--All these terms have been explained
     in an earlier part of the work.

~235~~

          But long before the first term ended,
          Tom was inform'd, unless he mended,
          He'd better change his college.
          Which said, the Don was hobbling to the shelf
          Where college butler keeps his book of Battell;
          Tom nimbly ran, erased his name himself,
          To save the scandal of the students' prattle.
          In Oxford, be it known, there is a place
          Where all the mad wags in disgrace
          Retire to improve their knowledge;
          The town raff call it Botany Bay,
          Its inmates exiles, convicts, and they say
          Saint Alban takes the student refugees:
          Here Tom, to 'scape Point Non plus, took his seat
          After a waste of ready--found his feet
          Safe on the shores of indolence and ease;
          Here, 'mid choice spirits, in the Isle of Flip,
          Dad's will, and sapping, valued not young snip;
          Scapula, Homer, Lexicon, laid by,
          Join'd the peep-of-day boys in full cry.{23}
          A saving sire a sad son makes
          This adage suits most modern rakes,

     23 It was in the actual participation of these bacchanalian
     orgies, during the latter days of Dr. W----y, the former
     head of the Hall, when infirmities prevented his exercising
     the necessary watchful-ness over the buoyant spirits
     committed to his charge, that my friend Bob Transit and
     myself were initiated into the mysteries of the Albanians.
     The accompanying scene, so faithfully delineated by his
     humorous pencil, will be fresh in the recollection of the
     choice spirits who mingled in the joyous revelry. To
     particularise character would be to "betray the secrets of
     the prison-house," and is besides wholly unnecessary, every
     figure round the board being a portrait; kindred souls,
     whose merrie laughter-loving countenances and jovial
     propensities, will be readily recognised by every son of
     Alma Mater who was at Oxford during the last days of the
     beaux esprits of Alban Hall. (See Plate.) In justice to
     the learned Grecian who now presides, it should be told,
     that these scenes are altogether suppressed.

~236~~

          And Tom above all others.
          I should have told before, he was an only child,
          And therefore privileged to be gay and wild,
          Having no brothers,
          Whom his example might mislead
          Into extravagance, or deed
          Ridiculous and foolish.
          Three tedious years in Oxford spent,
          In midnight brawl and merriment,
          Tom bid adieu to college,
          To cassock-robe of orthodox,
          To construe and decline--the box,
          Supreme in stable knowledge;
          To dash on all within the ring,
          Bet high, play deep, or rioting,
          At Long's to sport his figure
          In honour's cause, some small affair
          Give modern bucks a finish'd air,
          Tom pull'd the fatal trigger.
          He kill'd his friend--but then remark,
          His friend had kill'd another spark,
          So 'twas but trick and tie.
          The cause of quarrel no one knew,
          Not even Tom,--away he flew,
          Till time and forms of law,
          To fashionable vices blind,
          Excuses for the guilty find,
          Call murder a faux pas.
          The tinsell'd coat next struck his pride,
          How dashing in the Park to ride
          A cornet of dragoons;
          Upon a charger, thorough bred,
          To show off with a high plumed head,
          The gaze of Legs and Spoons;
          To rein him up in all his paces,
          Then splash the passing trav'lers' faces,
          And spur and caper by;

~237~~

          Get drunk at mess, then sally out
          To Lisle-street fair, or beat a scout,
          Or black a waiter's eye.
          Of all the clubs,--the Clippers, Screws,
          The Fly-by-nights, Four Horse, and Blues,
          The Daffy, Snugs, and Peep-o-day,
          Tom's an elect; at all the Hells,
          At Bolton-Row, with tip-top swells,
          And Tat's men, deep he'd play.
          His debts oft paid by Snyder's{24} pelf,
          Who paid at last a debt himself,
          Which all that live must pay.
          Tom book'd{25} the old one snug inside,
          Wore sables, look'd demure and sigh'd
          Some few short hours away;
          Till from the funeral return'd,
          Then Tom with expectation burn'd
          To hear his father's will:--
          "Twice twenty thousand pounds in cash,"--
          "That's prime," quoth Tom, "to cut a dash
          "At races or a mill,"--
          "All my leaseholds, house and plate,
          My pictures and freehold estate,
          I give my darling heir;
          Not doubting but, as I in trade
          By careful means this sum have made,
          He'll double it with care."--
          "Ay, that I will, I'll hit the nick,
          Seven's the main,--here Ned and Dick
          Bring down my blue and buff;
          Take off the hatband, banish grief,
          'Tis time to turn o'er a new leaf,
          Sorrow's but idle stuff."
          Fame, trumpet-tongued, Tom's wealth reports,
          His name is blazon'd at the courts
          Of Carlton and the Fives.
          His equipage, his greys, his dress,
          His polish'd self, so like noblesse,
          "Is ruin's sure perquise."

     24 Flash for tailor.

     25 Screwed up in his coffin.

~238~~

          Beau Brummell's bow had not the grace,
          Alvanly stood eclipsed in face,
          The Roués all were mute,
          So exquisite, so chaste, unique,
          The mark for every Leg and Greek,
          Who play the concave suit.{26}
          At Almack's, paradise o' the West,
          Tom's hand by prince and peer is press'd,
          And fashion cries supreme.
          His Op'ra box, and little quean,
          To lounge, to see, and to be seen,
          Makes life a pleasant dream.
          Such dreams, alas! are transient light,
          A glow of brightness and delight,
          That wakes to years of pain.
          Tom's round of pleasure soon was o'er,
          And clam'rous duns assail the door
          When credit's on the wane.
          His riches pay his folly's price,
          And vanish soon a sacrifice,
          Then friendly comrades fly;
          His ev'ry foible dragg'd to light,
          And faults (unheeded) crowd in sight,
          Asham'd to show his face.
          Beset by tradesmen, lawyers, bums,{21}
          He sinks where fashion never comes,
          A wealthier takes his place.
          Beat at all points, floor'd, and clean'd out,
          Tom yet resolv'd to brave it out,

     36 Cards cut in a peculiar manner, to enable the Leg to
     fleece his Pigeon securely.

     27 "Persons employed by the sheriff to hunt and seize human
     prey: they are always bound in sureties for the due
     execution of their office, and thence are called Bound
     Bailiff's, which the common people have corrupted into a
     much more homely ex-pression--to wit, Bum-Bailiffs or
     Bums."--l Black Com. 346.

~239~~

          If die he must, die game.
          Some few months o'er, again he strays
          'Midst scenes of former halcyon days,
          On other projects bent;
          No more ambitious of a name,
          Or mere unprofitable fame,
          On gain he's now intent,
          To deal a flush, or cog a die,
          Or plan a deep confed'racy
          To pluck a pigeon bare.
          Elected by the Legs a brother,
          His plan is to entrap some other
          In Greeting's fatal snare.
          Here for a time his arts succeed,
          But vice like his, it is decreed,
          Can never triumph long:
          A noble, who had been his prey,
          Convey'd the well cogg'd bones away,
          Exposed them to the throng.
          Now blown, "his occupation's" o'er,
          Indictments, actions, on him pour,
          His ill got wealth must fly;
          And faster than it came, the law
          Can fraud's last ill got shilling draw,
          Tom's pocket soon drain'd dry.
          Again at sea, a wreck, struck down,
          By fickle fortune and the town,
          Without the means to bolt.
          His days in bed, for fear of Bums,
          At night among the Legs he comes,
          Who gibe him for a dolt.
          He's cut, and comrades, one by one,
          Avoid him as they would a dun.
          Here finishes our tale--
          Tom Tick, the life, the soul, the whim
          Of courts and fashion when in trim,
          Is left--
          WAITING FOR BAIL.

~240~~

By the time old Mark Supple had finished his somewhat lengthy tale, the major part of the motley
group of eccentrics who surrounded us were terribly cut: the garrulous organ of Jack Milburn
was unable to articulate a word; Goose B----l, the gourmand, was crammed full, and looked,
as he lay in the arms of Morpheus, like a fat citizen on the night of a lord mayor's dinner--a
lump of inanimate mortality. In one corner lay a poor little Grecian, papa Chrysanthus Demetriades,
whom Tom Echo had plied with bishop till he fell off his chair; Count Dennet was safely deposited
beside him; and old Will Stewart,{28} the poacher, was just humming himself to sleep with the
fag end of an old ballad as he sat upon the ground

     28 Portraits of the three last-mentioned eccentrics will be
     found in page 245, sketched from the life.

~241~~

resting his back against the defunct Grecian. A diminutive little cripple, Johnny Holloway,
was sleeping between his legs, upon whose head Tom had fixed a wig of immense size, crowned
with an opera hat and a fox's tail for a feather. "Now to bury the dead," said Eglantine; "let
in the lads, Mark." "Now we shall have a little sport, old fellows," said Echo: "come, Transit,
where are your paints and brushes?" In a minute the whole party were most industriously engaged
in disfiguring the objects around us by painting their faces, some to resemble tattooing, while
others were decorated with black eyes, huge mustachios, and different embellishments, until
it would have been impossible for friend or relation to have recognised any one of their visages.
This ceremony being completed, old Mark introduced a new collection of worthies, who had been
previously instructed for the sport; these were, I found, no other than the well-known Oxford
cads, Marston Will, Tom Webb, Harry Bell, and Dick Rymal,{29} all out and outers, as Echo reported,
for a spree with the gown, who had been regaled at some neighbouring public house by Eglantine,
to be in readiness for the wind-up of his eccentric entertainment; to the pious care of these
worthies were consigned the strange-looking mortals who surrounded us. The plan was, I found,
to carry them out quietly between two men, deposit them in a cart which they had in waiting,
and having taken them to the water-side, place them in a barge and send them drifting down
the water in the night to Iffley, where their consternation on recovering the next morning
and strange appearance would be sure to create a source of merriment both for the city and
university. The instructions were most punctually obeyed, and the amusement the freak afterwards
afforded the good people of Oxford will not very

     29 Well-known sporting cads, who are always ready to do a
     good turn for the togati, either for sport or spree.

~242~~quickly be forgotten. Thus ended the spread--and now having taken more than my usual
quantity of wine, and being withal fatigued by the varied amusements of the evening, I would
fain have retired to rest: but this, I found, would be contrary to good fellowship, and not
at all in accordance with college principles. "We must have a spree" said Echo, "by way of
finish, the rum ones are all shipped off safely by this time--suppose we introduce Blackmantle
to our grandmamma, and the pretty Nuns of St. Clement's." "Soho, my good fellows," said Transit;
"we had better defer our visit in that direction until the night is more advanced. The old
don{30} of----, remember, celebrates the Paphian mysteries in that quarter occasionally, and
we may not always be able to shirk him as effectually as on the other evening, when Echo and
myself were snugly enjoying a tête-a-tête with Maria B----and little Agnes S----{31}; we accidentally
caught a glimpse of old Morality cautiously toddling after the pious Mrs. A--ms, vide-licet
of arts,{32} a lady who has been regularly matriculated at this university, and taken up her
degrees some years since. It was too rich a bit to lose, and although at the risk of discovery,
I booked it immediately eo instunti. 'Exegi monumentum aere perennius'--and here it is."

     30 We all must reverence dons; and I'm about
     To talk of dons--irreverently I doubt.
     For many a priest, when sombre evening gray
     Mantles the sky, o'er maudlin bridge will stray--
     Forget his oaths, his office, and his fame,
     And mix in company I will not name.

     Aphrodisiacal Licenses.
     31 Paphian divinities in high repute at Oxford.

     32 Pretty much in the same sense, probably, in which Moore's
     gifted leman Fanny is by him designated Mistress of Arts.

     And oh!--if a fellow like me
     May confer a diploma of hearts,
     With my lip thus I seal your degree,
     My divine little Mistress of Arts.

     For an account of Fan's proficiency in astronomy, ethics,
     (not the Nicomachean), and eloquence, see Moore's Epistles,
     vol. ii. p. 155.

~243~~

"An excellent likeness, i'faith, is it," said Eglantine; whose eyes twinkled like stars amid
the wind-driven clouds, and whose half clipped words and unsteady motion sufficiently evinced
that he had paid due attention to the old laws of potation. "There's nothing like the cloth
for comfort, old fellows; remember what a man of Christ Church wrote to George Colman when
he was studying for the law.

          'Turn parson, Colman, that's the way to thrive;
          Your parsons are the happiest men alive.
          Judges, there are but twelve; and never more,
          But stalls untold, and Bishops twenty-four.
          Of pride and claret, sloth and venison full,
          Yon prelate mark, right reverend and dull!

~244~~

          He ne'er, good man, need pensive vigils keep
          To preach his audience once a week to sleep;
          On rich preferment battens at his ease,
          Nor sweats for tithes, as lawyers toil for fees.'

If Colman had turned parson he would have had a bishoprick long since, and rivalled that jolly
old ancient Walter de Mapes. Then what an honour he would have been to the church; no drowsy
epistles spun out in lengthened phrase,

          'Like to the quondam student, named of yore,
          Who with Aristotle calmly choked a boar;'

but true orthodox wit: the real light of grace would have fallen from his lips and charmed
the crowded aisle; the rich epigrammatic style, the true creed of the churchman; no fear of
canting innovations or evangelical sceptics; but all would have proceeded harmoniously, ay,
and piously too--for true piety consists not in purgation of the body, but in purity of mind.
Then if we could but have witnessed Colman filling the chair in one of our common rooms, enlivening
with his genius, wit, and social conversation the learned dromedaries of the Sanctum, and dispelling
the habitual gloom of a College Hospitium, what chance would the sectarians of Wesley, or the
infatuated followers even of that arch rhapsodist, Irving, have with the attractive eloquence
and sound reasoning of true wit?" "Bravo! bravo!"vociferated the party. "An excellent defence
of the church," said Echo, "for which Eglantine deserves to be inducted to a valuable benefice;
suppose we adjourn before the college gates are closed, and install him under the Mitre." A
proposition that met with a ready acquiescence from all present.{33}

     33 The genius of wit, mirth, and social enjoyment, can never
     find more sincere worshippers than an Oxford wine-party
     seated round the festive board; here the sallies of youth,
     unchecked by care, the gaiety of hearts made glad with wine
     and revelry, the brilliant flashes of genius, and the eye
     beaming with delight, are found in the highest perfection.
     The merits of the society to which the youthful aspirant for
     fame and glory happens to belong often afford the embryo
     poet the theme of his song. Impromptu parodies on old and
     popular songs often add greatly to the enjoy-ment of the
     convivial party. The discipline of the university prohibits
     late hours; and the evenings devoted to enjoyment are not
     often disgraced by excess.

The clocks of Oxford were echoing each other in proclaiming the hour of midnight, when Eglantine
led the way by opening the door of his hospitium to descend into the quadrangle of Brazen-nose.
"Steady, steady, old fellows," said Horace; "remember the don on the first-floor--hush, all
be silent as the grave till you pass his oak." "Let us row him--let us fumigate the old fellow,"
said Echo; "this is the night of purification, lads--bring some pipes, and a little frankincense,
Mark." And in this laudable ~247~~enterprise of blowing asafoetida smoke through the don's
key-hole the whole party were about to be instantly engaged, when an accidental slip of Eglantine's
spoiled the joke. While in the act of remonstrating with his jovial companions on the dangerous
consequences attending detection, the scholar sustained a fall which left him suddenly deposited
against the oak of the crabbed old Master of Arts, who inhabited rooms on the top of the lower
staircase; fortunately, the dignitary had on that evening carried home more liquor than learning
from the common room, and was at the time of the accident almost as sound asleep as the original
founder. "There lies the domini of the feast," said Echo, "knocked down in true orthodox style
by the bishop--follow your leader, boys; and take care of your craniums, or you may chance
to get a few phreno-lo-lo-logi-cal bu-lps--I begin to feel that hard study has somewhat impaired
my artic-tic-u-u-la-tion, but then I can always raise a per-pendic-dic-u-u-lar, you see--always
good at mathemat-tics. D--n Aristotle, and the rest of the saints! say I: you see what comes
of being logical." All of which exultation over poor Eglantine's disaster, Echo had the caution
to make while steadying himself by keeping fast hold of one of the balustrades on the landing;
which that arch wag Transit perceiving, managed to cut nearly through with a knife, and then
putting his foot against it sent Tom suddenly oft in a flying leap after his companion, to
the uproarious mirth of the whole party. By the time our two friends had recovered their legs,
we were all in marching order for the Mitre; working in sinuosities along, for not one of the
party could have moved at right angles to any given point, or have counted six street lamps
without at least multiplying them to a dozen. In a word, they were ripe for any spree, full
of frolic, and bent on mischief; witness the piling a huge load of coals ~248~~against one
man's door, screwing up the oak of another, and milling the glaze of a third, before we quitted
the precincts of Brazen-nose, which we did separately, to escape observation from the Cerberus
who guarded the portal.

It is in a college wine-party that the true character of your early associates are easily discoverable:
out of the excesses of the table very often spring the truest impressions, the first, but indelible
affection which links kindred spirits together in after-time, and cements with increasing years
into the most inviolable friendship. Here the sallies of youth, unchecked by care, or fettered
by restraint, give loose to mirth and revelry; and the brilliancy of genius and the warm-hearted
gaiety of pure delight are found in the highest perfection.

The blue light of heaven illumined the magnificent square of Radcliffe, when we passed from
beneath the porch of Brazen-nose, and tipping with her silvery light the surrounding architecture,
lent additional beauty to the solemn splendour of the scene. Sophisticated as my faculties
certainly were by the copious libations and occurrences of the day, I could yet admire with
reverential awe the imposing grandeur by which I was surrounded.

A wayward being from my infancy, not the least mark of my eccentricity is the peculiar humour
in which I find myself when I have sacrificed too freely to the jolly god: unlike the major
part of mankind, my temperament, instead of being invigorated and enlivened by the sparkling
juice of the grape, loses its wonted nerve and elasticity; a sombre gloominess pervades the
system, the pulse becomes nervous and languid, the spirits flagging and depressed, and the
mind full of chimerical apprehensions and ennui. It was in this mood that Eglantine found me
ruminating on the noble works before me, while resting against a part of the pile of Radcliffe
library, contemplating ~249~~the elegant crocketed pinnacles of All Souls, the delicately taper
spire of St. Mary's, and the clustered enrichments and imperial canopies of masonry, and splendid
traceries which every where strike the eye: all of which objects were rendered trebly impressive
from the stillness of the night, and the flittering light by which they were illumined. I had
enough of wine and frolic, and had hoped to have shirked the party and stolen quietly to my
lodgings, there to indulge in my lucubrations on the scene I had witnessed, and note in my
journal, according to my usual practice, the more prominent events of the day, when Horace
commenced with--

"Where the devil, old fellow, have you been hiding yourself? I've been hunting you some time.
A little cut, I suppose: never mind, my boy, you'll be better presently. Here's glorious sport
on foot; don't you hear the war-cry?" At this moment a buzz of distant voices broke upon the
ear like the mingled shouts of an election tumult. "There they are, old fellow: come, buckle
on your armour--we must try your mettle to-night. All the university are out--a glorious row--come
along, no shirking---the togati against the town raff--remember the sacred cause, my boy."
And in this way, spite of all remonstrance, was I dragged through the lane and enlisted with
the rest of my companions into a corps of university men who were just forming themselves in
the High-street to repel the daring attack of the very scum of the city, who had ill-treated
and beaten some gownsmen in the neighbourhood of St. Thomas's, and had the temerity to follow
and assail them in their retreat to the High-street with every description of villanous epithet,
and still more offensive and destructive missiles. "Stand fast there, old fellows," said Echo;
who, although devilishly cut, seemed to be the leader of the division. "Where's old Mark Supple?"
"Here I am sir, take notice" said the old scout, who appeared as active as ~250~~an American
rifleman. "Will Peake send us the bludgeons?" "He won't open his doors, sir, for anybody, take
notice." "Then down with the Mitre, my hearties;" and instantly a rope was thrown across the
bishop's cap by old Mark, and the tin sign, lamp, and all came tumbling into the street, smashed
into a thousand pieces.

PEAKE (looking out of an upper window in his night-cap). Doey be quiet, and go along, for God's
zake, gentlemen! I shall be ruinated and discommoned if I open my door to any body.

TOM ECHO. You infernal old fox-hunter! if you don't doff your knowledge bag and come to the
door, we'll mill all your glaze, burst open your gates, and hamstring all your horses.

MRS. PEAKE (in her night-gown). Stand out of the way, Peake; let me speak to the gentlemen.
Gentlemen, doey, gentlemen, consider my reputation, and the reputation of ray house. O dear,
gentlemen, doey go somewhere else--we've no sticks here, I azzure ye, and we're all in bed.
Doey go, gentlemen, pray do.

TRANSIT. Dame Peake, if you don't open your doors directly, we'll break them open, and unkennel
that old bagg'd fox, your husband, and drink all the black strap in your cellar, and--and play
the devil with the maids.

MRS. PEAKE. Don'te say so, don'te say so, Mr. Transit; I know you to be a quiet, peaceable
gentleman, and I am zure you will befriend me: doey persuade 'em to go away, pray do,

~251~~

MARK SUPPLE. Dame Peake

MRS. PEAKE. Oh, Mr. Mark Supple, are you there I talk to the gentlemen, Mr. Mark, pray do.

MARK SUPPLE. It's no use, dame Peake; they won't be gammon'd, take notice. If you have any
old broom-handles, throw 'em out directly, and if not, throw all the brooms you have in the
house out of window--throw out all your sticks--throw Peake out. I'm for the gown, take notice.
Down with the town! down with the town!

BILL MAGS. (The waiter, at a lower window.) Hist, hist, Mr. Echo; Mr. Eglantine, hist, hist;
master's gone to the back of the house with all the sticks he can muster; and here's an old
kitchen-chair you can break up and make bludgeons of (throwing the chair out of window), and
here's the cook's rolling-pin, and I'll go and forage for more ammunition.

HORACE EGLANTINE. You're a right good fellow, Bill; and I'll pay you before I do your master;
and the Brazen-nose men shall make your fortune.

TOM ECHO. But where's the academicals I sent old Captain Cook for 1 We shall be beating one
another in the dark without caps and gowns.

CAPTAIN COOK. (A scout of Christ Church.) Here I be, zur. That old rogue, Dick Shirley, refuses
to send any gowns; he says he has nothing but noblemen's gowns and gold tufts in his house.

~252~~

THE HON. LILLYMAN LIONISE. By the honour of my ancestry, that fellow shall never draw another
stitch for Christ Church as long as he lives. Come along, captain: by the honour of my ancestry,
we'll uncase the old snyder; we'll have gowns, I warrant me, noble or not noble, gold tufts
or no tufts. Come along, Cook.

In a few moments old Captain Cook and the exquisite returned loaded with gowns and caps, having
got in at the window and completely cleared the tailor's shop of all his academicals, in spite
of his threats or remonstrances. In the interim, old Mark Supple and Echo had succeeded in
obtaining a supply of broom-handles and other weapons of defence; when the insignia of the
university, the toga and cap, were soon distributed indiscriminately: the numbers of the university
men increased every moment; and the yell of the town raff seemed to gain strength with every
step as they approached the scene of action. Gown! gown! Town! town! were the only sounds heard
in every direction; and the clamour and the tumult of voices were enough to shake the city
with dismay. The authorities were by no means idle; but neither proctors or pro's, or marshal,
or bull-dogs, or even deans, dons, and dignitaries, for such there were, who strained their
every effort to quell the disturbance, were at all attended to, and many who came as peace-makers
were compelled in their own defence to take an active part in the fray.

From the bottom of the High-street to the end of the corn-market, and across again through
St. Aldate's to the old bridge, every where the more peaceable and respectable citizens might
be seen popping their noddles out of window, and rubbing their half-closed eyes with affright,
to learn the cause of the alarming strife.

~253~~Of the strong band of university men who rushed on eager for the coming fray, a number
of them were fresh light-hearted Etonians and old Westminsters, who having just arrived to
place themselves under the sacred banners of Academus, thought their honour and their courage
both concerned in defending the togati: most of these youthful zealots had as usual, at the
beginning of a term, been lodged in the different inns and houses of the city, and from having
drank somewhat freely of the welcome cup with old schoolfellows and new friends, were just
ripe for mischief, unheedful of the consequences or the cause.

On the other hand, the original fomenters of the strife had recruited their forces with herds
of the lowest rabble gathered from the purlieus of their patron saints, St. Clement and St.
Thomas, and the shores of the Charwell,--the bargees, and butchers, and labourers, and scum
of the suburbians: a huge conglomerated mass of thick sculls, and broad backs, and strengthy
arms, and sturdy legs, and throats bawling for revenge, and hearts bursting with wrathful ire,
rendered still more frantic and desperate by the magic influence of their accustomed war-whoop.
These formed the base barbarian race of Oxford truands,{1} including every vile thing that
passes under the generic name of raff. From college to college the mania spread with the rapidity
of an epidemic wind; and scholars, students, and fellows were every where in motion: here a
stout bachelor of arts might be seen knocking down the ancient Cerberus who opposed his passage;
there the iron-bound college gates were forced open by the united power of the youthful inmates.
In another quarter might be seen the heir of some noble family risking his neck in the headlong
leap {2}; and near him, a party of the togati scaling the sacred battlements with as much energetic
zeal as the ancient crusaders would have displayed against the ferocious Saracens.

     1 The French truands were beggars, who under the pretence
     of asking alms committed the most atrocious crimes and
     excesses.

     2 It was on one of these occasions that the celebrated
     Charles James Fox made that illustrious leap from the window
     of Hertford College.

~254~~Scouts flying in every direction to procure caps and gowns, and scholars dropping from
towers and windows by bell-ropes and sheet-ladders; every countenance exhibiting as much ardour
and frenzied zeal, as if the consuming elements of earth and fire threatened the demolition
of the sacred city of Rhedycina.

It was on the spot where once stood the ancient conduit of Carfax, flanked on the one side
by the venerable church of St. Martin and the colonnade of the old butter-market, and on the
other by the town-hall, from the central point of which terminate, south, west, and north,
St. Aldate's, the butcher-row, and the corn-market, that the scene exhibited its more substantial
character. It was here the assailants first caught sight of each other; and the yell, and noise,
and deafening shouts became terrific. In a moment all was fury and confusion: in the onset
the gown, confident and daring, had evidently the advantage, and the retiring raff fell back
in dismay; while the advancing and victorious party laid about them with their quarter-staves,
and knuckles drawing blood, or teeth, or cracking crowns at every blow, until they had driven
them back to the end of the corn-market. It was now that the strong arm and still stronger
science of the sturdy bachelors of Brazen-nose, and the square-built, athletic sons of Cambria,
the Jones's of Jesus, proved themselves of sterling mettle, and bore the brunt of the battle
with unexampled courage: at this instant a second reinforcement arriving from the canals and
wharfs on the banks of the Isis, having forced their way by George-lane, brought timely assistance
to the town raff, and enabled them again to rally and present so formidable an appearance,
~255~~that the togati deemed it prudent to retreat upon their reserve, who were every moment
accumulating in immense numbers in the High-street: to this spot the townsmen, exulting in
their trifling advantage, had the temerity to follow and renew the conflict, and here they
sustained the most signal defeat: for the men of Christ Church, and Pembroke, and St. Mary's
Hall, and Oriel, and Corpus Christi, had united their forces in the rear; while the front of
the gown had fallen back upon the effective Trinitarians, and Albanians, and Wadhamites, and
men of Magdalen, who had by this time roused them from their monastic towers and cells to fight
the holy war, and defend their classic brotherhood: nor was this all the advantages the gown
had to boast of, for the scouts, ever true to their masters, had summoned the lads of the fancy,
and Marston Will, and Harry Bell, and a host of out and outers, came up to the scratch, and
floored many a youkel with their bunch of fives. It was at this period that the conflict assumed
its most appalling feature, for the townsmen were completely hemmed into the centre, and fought
with determined courage, presenting a hollow square, two fronts of which were fully engaged
with the infuriated gown. Long and fearful was the struggle for mastery, and many and vain
the attempts of the townsmen to retreat, until the old Oxford night coach, in its way up the
High-street to the Star Inn in the corn-market, was compelled to force its passage through
the conflicting parties; when the bull-dogs and the constables, headed by marshal Holliday
and old Jack Smith, united their forces, and following the vehicle, opened a passage into the
very centre of the battle, where they had for some time to sustain the perilous attacks of
oaths, and blows, and kicks from both parties, until having fairly wedged themselves between
the combatants, they succeeded by threats and entreaties, and seizing a few of the ringleaders
on ~256~~both sides, to cause a dispersion, and restore by degrees the peace of the city.

It was, however, some hours before the struggle had completely subsided, a running fight being
kept up by the various straggling parties in their retreat; and at intervals the fearful cry
of Town and Gown would resound from some plebeian alley or murky lane as an unfortunate wight
of the adverse faction was discovered stealing homewards, covered with mud and scars. Of my
college friends and merry companions in the fray, Tom Echo alone remained visible, and he had
(in his own phraseology) dropped his sash: according to Hudibras, he looked

          "As men of inward light are wont
          To turn their opticks in upon't;"

or, in plain English, had an invisible eye. The "disjecta fragmenta" of his academical robe
presented a most pitiful appearance; it was of the ragged sort, like the mendicula impluviata
of Plautus, and his under habiliments bore evident marks of his having bitten the dust (i.e.
mud) beneath the ponderous arm of some heroic blacksmith or bargee; but yet he was lively,
and what with blows and exertion, perfectly sobered. "What, Blackmantle? and alive, old fellow?
Well clone, my hearty; I saw you set to with that fresh water devil from Charwell, the old
Bargee, and a pretty milling you gave him. I had intended to have seconded you, but just as
I was making up, a son of Vulcan let fly his sledge-hammer slap at my smeller, and stopped
up one of my oculars, so I was obliged to turn to and finish him off; and when I had completed
the job, you had bolted; not, however, without leaving your marks behind you. But where's Eglantine?
where's Transit? where's the Honourable? By my soul the roué can handle his mauleys well; I
saw him floor one of the raff in very prime style. But come along, my hearty; we must walk
over the ~257~~field of battle and look after the wounded: I am desperately afraid that Eglantine
is booked inside--saw him surrounded by the bull-dogs--made a desperate effort to rescue him--and
had some difficulty to clear myself; but never mind, ''tis the fortune of war,' and there's
very good lodging in the castle. Surely there's Mark Supple with some one on his back. What,
Mark, is that you?" "No, sir--yes, sir--I mean, sir, it's a gentleman of our college--O dearey
me, I thought it had been a proctor or a bull-dog--for Heaven's sake, help, sir! here's Mr.
Transit quite senseless, take notice--picked him up in a doorway in Lincoln-lane, bleeding
like a pig, take notice.

O dear, O dear, what a night this has been! We shall all be sent to the castle, and perhaps
transported for manslaughter. For Heaven's sake, Mr. Echo, help! bear his head up--take hold
of his feet, Mr. Blackmantle, and I'll go before, and ring at Dr. Tuckwell's bell, take notice."
In this way poor Transit was conveyed to the surgery, where, after cleansing him from the blood
and dirt, and the application of some aromatics, he soon recovered, and happily had not sustained
any very serious injury. From old Mark we learned that Eglantine was a captive to the bull-dogs,
and safely deposited in the castle along with Marston Will, who had fought nobly in his defence:
of Lionise we could gain no other tidings than that Mark had seen him at the end of the fray
climbing up to the first floor window of a tradesman's house in the High-street, whose daughter
it was well known he had a little intrigue with, and where, as we concluded, he had found a
balsam for his wounds, and shelter for the night. It was nearly three o'clock when I regained
my lodging and found Mags, the waiter of the Mitre, on the look-out for me: Echo had accompanied
me home, and in our way we had picked up a wounded man of University College, who had suffered
severely in the contest. It was worthy ~258~~the pencil of a Hogarth to have depicted the appearance
of the High-street after the contest, when we were cautiously perambulating from end to end
in search of absent friends, and fearing at every step the approach of the proctors or their
bull-dogs: the lamps were almost all smashed, and the burners dangling to and fro with the
wind, the greater part extinguished, or just emitting sufficient light to make night horrible.
On the lamp-irons might be seen what at first sight was most appalling, the figure of some
hero of the togati dangling by the neck, but which, on nearer approach, proved to be only the
dismembered academical of some gentleman-commoner hung up as a trophy by the town raff. Broken
windows and shutters torn from their hinges, and missiles of every description covering the
ground, from the terrific Scotch paving-pebble torn up from the roads, to the spokes of coach-wheels,
and the oaken batons, and fragments of lanterns belonging to the town watch, skirts of coats,
and caps, and remnants of togas both silken and worsted, bespoke the quality of the heroes
of the fray; while here and there a poor terrified wretch was exposing his addle head to the
mildews of the night-damp, fearing a revival of the contest, or anxiously watching the return
of husband, brother, father, or son.{3}

     3 This picture of an Oxford row is not, as the general
     reader might imagine, the mere fiction of the novelist, but
     the true description of a contest which occurred some few
     years since; the leading features of which will be (although
     the names have been, except in one or two instances,
     studiously suppressed) easily recognised by many of the
     present sons of Alma Mater who shared in the perils and
     glory of the battle. To those who are strangers to the
     sacred city, and these casual effervescences of juvenile
     spirit, the admirable graphic view of the scene by my friend
     Bob Transit (see plate) will convey a very correct idea.

     To the credit of the more respectable and wealthy class of
     Oxford citizens it should be told, they are now too sensible
     of their own interest, and, besides, too well-informed to
     mix with these civil disturbances; the lower orders,
     therefore, finding themselves unequal to the contest without
     their support, submit to the togati; and thus the civil
     wars that have raged in Oxford with very little interruption
     from the days of Alfred seem for the present extinguished.

~259~~

On our arrival at the Mitre, poor Mrs. Peake, half frightened to death, was up and busy in
administering to the sufferers various consolatory draughts composed of bishop, and flesh and
blood{4} and rumbooze; while the chambermaids, and Peake, and the waiters were flying about
the house with warm water, and basins, and towels, to the relief of the numerous applicants,
who all seemed anxious to wash away the dirty remembrances of the disgusting scene.

Hitherto I had been so busily engaged in defending myself and preserving my friends, that I
had not a moment for reflection. It has been well observed, that "place an Englishman in the
field of battle, no matter what his political feelings, he will fight like a lion, by instinct,
or the mere force of example;" so with the narrator of this contest. I had not, up to this
time, the least knowledge of the original cause of the row. I have naturally an aversion to
pugilistic contests and tumultuous sports, and yet I found by certain bruises, and bumps, and
stains of blood, and stiffness of joints, and exhaustion, and the loss of my upper garment,
which I had then only just discovered, that I must have borne a pretty considerable{5} part
in the contest, and carried away no small share of victorious laurels, since I had escaped
without any very visible demonstration of my adversaries' prowess; but for this I must acknowledge
myself indebted to my late private tutor the Eton cad, Joe Cannon, whose fancy lectures on
noseology, and the science of the milling system, had enabled me to

     4 Brandy and port wine, half and half.

     5  An Oxford phrase.

~260~~defend my bread-basket, cover up my peepers, and keep my nob out of chancery{6}: a merit
that all

     6 The use of a peculiar cant phraseology for different
     classes, it would appear, originated with the Argoliers, a
     species of French beggars or monkish impostors, who were
     notorious for every thing that was bad and infamous: these
     people assumed the form of a regular government, elected a
     king, established a fixed code of laws, and invented a
     language peculiar to themselves, constructed probably by
     some of the debauched and licentious youths, who, abandoning
     their scholastic studies, associated with these vagabonds.
     In the poetical life of the French robber Cartouche, a
     humorous account is given of the origin of the word Argot;
     and the same author has also compiled a dictionary of the
     language then in use by these people, which is annexed to
     the work. Hannan, in his very singular work, published in
     1566, entitled "A Caveat, or Warning for Common Cursitors
     (runners), vulgarly called Vagabones," has described a
     number of the words then in use, among what he humorously
     calls the "lued lousey language of these lewtering beskes
     and lasy lovrels." And it will be remembered that at that
     time many of the students of our universities were among
     these cursitors, as we find by an old statute of the xxii of
     Hen. VIII.; "that scholars at the universities begging
     without licence, were to be punished like common cursi-
     tors." The vagabonds of Spain are equally celebrated for
     their use of a peculiar slang or cant, as will be seen on
     reference to a very curious work of Rafael Frianoro,
     entitled" Il Vagabondo, overo sferzo de bianti e
     Vagabondi." Viterbo, 1620, 12mo. As also in those
     excellent novels, "Lazarillo do Tormes," and "Guzman de
     Alfarache." The Romany or gipsies' dialect is given with
     the history of that singular people by Mr. Grellman; an
     English translation of which was published in 1787, by
     Roper, in quarto: from those works, Grose principally
     compiled his "Lexicon Ballatronicum." In the present day we
     have many professors of slang, and in more ways than one,
     too many of cant; the greater part of whom are dull
     impostors, who rather invent strange terms to astonish the
     vulgar than adhere to the peculiar phrases of the persons
     they attempt to describe. It has long been matter of regret
     with the better order of English sporting men, that the
     pugilistic contests and turf events of the day are not
     written in plain English, "which all those who run might
     read," instead of being rendered almost unintelligible by
     being narrated in the language of beggars, thieves, and
     pickpockets--a jargon as free from true wit as it is full of
     obscenity.

~261~~Keate's{7} learning would not have compensated for under the peculiar circumstances in
which I was placed.

It was now that the mischief was done, and many a sound head was cracked, and many a courageous
heart was smarting 'neath their wounds in the gloomy dungeons of the castle, or waiting in
their rooms the probing instrument and plasters of Messrs. Wall, or Kidd, or Bourne, that a
few of us, who had escaped tolerably well, and were seated round a bowl of bishop in the snug
sanctum sanctorum of the Mitre, began to inquire of each other the origin of the fray. After
a variety of conjectures and vague reports, each at variance with the other, and evidently
deficient in the most remote connexion with the true cause of the strife, it was agreed to
submit the question to the waiter, as a neutral observer, who assured us that the whole affair
arose out of a trifling circumstance, originating with some mischievous boys, who, having watched
two gownsmen into a cyprian temple in the neighbourhood of Saint Thomas, circulated a false
report that they had carried thither the wives of two respectable mechanics. Without taking
the trouble to inquire into the truth or falsehood of the accusation, the door was immediately
beset; the old cry of Town and Gown vociferated in every direction; and the unfortunate wights
compelled to seek their safety by an ignominious flight through a back door and over the meadows.
The tumult once raised, it was not to be appeased without some victim, and for this purpose
they thought proper to attack a party of the togati, who were returning home from a little
private sport with a well-known fancy lecturer: the opportunity was a good one to show-off,
a regular fight commenced, and the raff were floored in every direction, until their numbers
increasing beyond all

     7 The highly respected and learned head-master of Eton
     College.

~262 comparison, the university men were compelled to raise the cry of Gown, and fly for succour
and defence to the High-street: in this way had a few mischievous boys contrived to embroil
the town and university in one of the most severe intestine struggles ever remembered.

     A true chronicle of ye bloodie fighte betweene the Clerkes
     of and Scholairs of Oxenforde, and the Townsmen of the
     Citie, who were crowdinge rounde the Easterne Gaite to see
     the Kinge enter in his progresse wostwarde.

~263~~

Sir Gierke of Oxenforde, prepare Your robis riche, and noble cheere. Ye kinge with alle his
courtlie trane Is spurring on your plaice to gane. And heere ye trumpet's merrie note, His
neare approache proclaims, I wote; Ye doctors, proctors, scholairs, go, And fore youre sovereigne
bend ye lowe. Now comes the kinge in grande arraie; And the scholairs presse alonge the waye,
Till ye Easterne gaite was thronged so rounde, That passage coulde no where be founde. Then
the sheriffe's men their upraised speares Did plye about the people's eares. And woe the day;
the rabble route Their speares did breake like glasse aboute. Then the doctors, proctors, for
the kinge, Most lustilie for roome did singe; But thoughe theye bawled out amaine, No passage
throughe the crowde coulde gane. Ye Northern gownsmen, a bold race, Now swore they'd quicklie
free the plaice; With stalwart gripe, and beadle's staffe Theye clefte the townsmen's sculls
in half.

~264~~

And now the wrathful rabble rave, And quick returne withe club and stave; And heades righte
learn'd in classic lore Felt as they'd never felt before. Now fierce and bloody growes the
fraye: In vaine the mayore and sheriffe praye For peace--to cool the townsmens' ire, Intreatie
but impelles the fire. Downe with the Towne! the scholairs cry; Downe with the Gowne! the towne
reply. Loud rattle the caps of the clerkes in aire, And the citizens many a sortie beare; And
many a churchman fought his waye, Like a heroe in the bloodie fraye. And one right portlie
father slewe Of rabble townsmen not a fewe. And now 'mid the battle's strife and din There
came to the Easterne gate, The heralde of our lorde the kinge, With his merrie men all in state.
"God help us!" quoth the courtlie childe, "What means this noise within? With joye the people
have run wilde." And so he peeped him in, And throughe the wicker-gate he spied, And marvelled
much thereat, The streets withe crimson current dyed, And Towne and Gowne laide flat. Then
he called his merrie men aloud, To bringe him a ladder straighte; The trumpet sounds--the warlike
crowde In a moment forget theire hate. Up rise the wounded, down theire arms Both Towne and
Gowne do lie; The kinge's approache ye people charmes, And alle looke merrilie. For howe'er
Towne and Gowne may fighte, Yet bothe are true to ye kinge. So on bothe may learning and honour
lighte, Let all men gailie singe.{1}

~265~~

     1 The above imitation of the style of the ancient ballad is
     founded on traditional circumstances said to have occurred
     when the pacific king James visited Oxford.--Bernard
     Blackmantle.

     Intestine broils and civil wars of Oxford.--Anthony Wood,
     the faithful historian of Oxford, gives an account of a
     quarrel between the partisans of St. Guinbald and the
     residents of Oxford, in the days of Alfred, on his
     refounding the university, A.D. 886. After his death the
     continual inroads of the Danes kept the Oxonians in
     perpetual alarm, and in the year 979 they destroyed the town
     by fire, and repeated their outrage upon the new built town
     in 1002. Seven years after, Swein, the Danish leader, was
     repulsed by the inhabitants in a similar attempt, who took
     vengeance on their im-placable enemy by a general massacre
     on the feast of St. Brice. In the civil commotions under the
     Saxon prince, Oxford had again its full share of the evils
     of war. After the death of Harold, William the Conqueror was
     bravely opposed by the citizens in his attempt to enter
     Oxford, which effecting by force, he was so much exas-
     perated at their attachment to Harold, that he bestowed the
     government of the town on Robert de Oilgo, a Norman, with
     permission to build a castle to keep his Oxford subjects in
     awe. The disturbances during the reign of Stephen and his
     successor were frequent, and in the reign of John, A. D.
     1209, an unfortunate occurrence threatened the entire
     destruction of Oxford as a seat of learning. A student,
     engaged in thoughtless diversion, killed a woman, and fled
     from justice. A band of citizens, with the mayor at their
     head, surrounded the hall to which he belonged, and demanded
     the offender; on being informed of his absence, the lawless
     multitude seized three of the students, who were entirely
     unconnected with the transaction, and ob-tained an order
     from the weak king (whose dislike to the clergy is known),
     to put the innocent persons to death--an order which was but
     too promptly obeyed. The scholars, justly en-raged by this
     treatment, quitted Oxford, some to Cambridge and Reading,
     and others to Maidstone, in Kent. The offended students also
     applied to the Pope, who laid the city under an interdict
     and discharged all professors from teaching in it. This step
     completely humbled the citizens, who sent a deputation of
     the most respectable to wait on the Pope's legate (then at
     Westminster) to acknowledge their rashness and request
     mercy; the legate (Nicholas, Bishop of Tusculum, ) granted
     their petition only on the most humiliating terms. The mayor
     and corporation were en-joined, by way of penance, to
     proceed annually, on the day dedicated to St. Nicholas, to
     all the parish churches bare-headed, with hempen halters
     round their necks, and whips in their hands, on their bare
     feet, and in their' shirts, and there pray the benefit of
     absolution from the priests, repeating the penitential
     psalms, and to pay a mark of silver per annum to the
     students of the hall peculiarly injured; in addition to
     which they were, on the recurrence of the same day, to
     entertain one hundred poor scholars "honestis
     refectionibus," the abbot of Evesham yearly paying sixteen
     shillings towards the festival expense A part of this
     ceremony, but without the degrading marks of it, is
     continued to this day. Henry III. occasionally resided at
     Oxford, and held there many parliaments and councils: in the
     reign of this king the university flourished to an
     unexampled degree, the number of students being estimated at
     fifteen thousand. Its popularity was about this time also
     greatly increased from the circumstance of not less than one
     thousand students quitting the learned institutions of
     Paris, and repairing to Oxford for instruction; but these
     foreigners introduced so dangerous a levity of manners, that
     the Pope deemed it necessary to send his legate for the
     purpose of reforming " certain flagrant corruptions of the
     place." The legate was at first treated with much affected
     civility, but an occasion for quarrel being soon found, he
     would, in all probability, have been sacrificed upon the
     spot, had he not hidden himself in a belfry from the fury of
     the assailants. This tumult was, by the exercise of some
     strong measures, speedily appeased; but the number of
     students was at this period infinitely too great to preserve
     due subordination. They divided themselves into parties,
     among which the north and south countrymen were the most
     violent, and their quarrels harassing and perpetual.
     According to the rude temper of the age, these disputes were
     not settled by argument, but by dint of blows; and the peace
     of the city was in this way so often endangered, that the
     king thought it expedient to add to the civil power two
     aldermen and eight burgesses assistant, together with two
     bailiffs. From petty and intestine broils, the students
     appear to have acquired a disposition for political inter-
     ference. When Prince Edward, returning from Paris, marched
     with an army towards Wales, coming to Oxford he was by the
     burghers refused admittance, "on occasion of the tumults now
     prevailing among the barons:" he quartered his soldiers in
     the adjacent villages, and "lodged himself that night in the
     royal palace of Magdalen," the next morning proceeding on
     his intended journey; but the scholars, who were shut in the
     town, being desirous to salute a prince whom they loved so
     much, first assembled round Smith-gate, and demanded to be
     let into the fields, which being refused by one of the
     bailiffs, they returned to their hostels for arms and broke
     open the gate, whereupon the mayor arrested many of them,
     and, on the chancellor's request, was so far from releasing
     them that he ordered the citizens to bring out their banners
     and display them in the midst of the street; and then
     embattling them, commanded a sudden onset on the rest of the
     scholars remaining in the town; and much blood-shed had been
     committed had not a scholar, by the sound of the school-bell
     in Saint Mary's church, given notice of the danger that
     threatened the students, then at dinner. On this alarm they
     straightways armed and went out, and in a tremendous
     conflict subdued and put the townsmen to flight. In
     consequence of this tumult, the king required the scholars
     to retire from the city during the time of holding his
     parliament; the chief part of the students accordingly
     repaired to Northampton, where, shortly after the insurgent
     barons had fortified themselves, on the king's laying siege
     to the place, the scholars, offended by their late removal,
     joined with the nobility, and repaired to arms under their
     own standard, behaving in the fight with conspicuous
     gallantry, and greatly increasing the wrath of the king;
     who, however, on the place being subdued, was restrained
     from pur-suing them to extremities, from prudential motives.
     As the kingdom became more settled, the disturbances were
     less frequent, and within the last century assumed the
     character of sportive rows rather than malicious feuds. On a
     recent lamentable occasion (now happily forgotten) the
     political feelings of the Gown and Town in some measure
     revived the spirit of the "olden time;" but since then Peace
     has waved her olive-branch over the city of Oxford, and
     perfect harmony, let us hope, will exist between Town and
     Gown for evermore.

~266~~

The veil of night was more than half drawn, ere the youthful inmates of the Mitre retired to
rest; and many of the party were compelled to put up with sorry accommodation, such was the
influx of ~267~~gownsmen who, shut out of lodging and college, had sought this refuge to wait
the approaching morn;--a morn big with the fate of many a scholastic woe--of lectures and reprovals
from tutors, and fines and impositions and denunciations from principals, of proctorial reports
to the vice-chancellor, and examinations before the big wigs, and sentences of expulsion 268~~and
rustication: coming evils which, by anticipation, kept many a man awake upon his pillow, spite
of the perilous fatigue which weighed so heavy upon the exhausted frame. The freshman had little
to fear: he could plead his ignorance of college rules, or escape notice altogether, from not
having yet domiciled within the walls of a college. Although I had little to expect from the
apprehension of any of these troubles, as my person was, from my short residence, most likely
unknown to any of the authorities--yet did Morpheus refuse his soporific balsam to the mind--I
could not help thinking of my young and giddy companions, of the kind-hearted Eglantine, immured
within the walls of a dungeon; of the noble-spirited Echo, maltreated and disfigured by the
temporary loss of an eye; of the facetious Bob Transit, so bruised and exhausted, that a long
illness might be expected; and, lastly, of our Eton sextile, the incomparable exquisite Lionise,
who, if discovered in his dangerous frolic, would, perhaps, have to leap out of a first floor
window at the risk of his neck, sustain an action for damages, and his expulsion from college
at the same time. Little Dick Gradus, with his usual cunning, had shirked us at the commencement
of hostilities; and the Honourable Mr. Sparkle had been carried home to his lodging, early
in the fray, more overcome by hard drinking than hard fighting, and there safely put to bed
by the indefatigable Mark Supple, to whose friendly zeal and more effective arm we were all
much indebted. In this reflective mood, I had watched the retiring shadows of the night gradually
disperse before the gray-eyed morn, and had just caught a glimpse of the golden streaks which
illumine the face of day, when my o'er-wearied spirit sank to rest.

A little before seven o'clock I was awoke by Echo, who came into my room to borrow some clean
linen, to enable him to attend chapel prayers at Christ Church. Judge my surprise when I perceived
my one-eyed ~269~~warrior completely restored to his full sight, and not the least appearance
of any participation in the affair of the previous night. "What? you can't comprehend how I
managed my black optic? hey, old fellow," said Echo; "you shall hear: knocked up Transit, and
made him send for his colours, and paint it over--looks quite natural, don't it?--defy the
big wigs to find it out--and if I can but make all right by a sop to the old Cerberus at the
gate, and queer the prick bills at chapel prayers, I hope to escape the quick-sands of rustication,
and pass safely through the creek of proctorial jeopardy. If you're fond of fun, old fellow,
jump up and view the Christ Church men proceeding to black matins this morning. After the Roysten
hunt yesterday--the dinner at the Black Bear at Woodstock--and the Town and Gown row of last
night, there will be a motley procession this morning, I'll bet a hundred." The opportunity
was a rare one to view the effect of late drinking upon early risers (see Plate); slipping
on my academicals, therefore, I accompanied my friend Tom to morning prayers,--a circumstance,
as I have since been informed, which would have involved me in very serious disgrace, had the
appearance of an ex college man at vespers attracted the notice of any of the big wigs. Fortunately,
however, I escaped the prying eyes of authority, which, on these occasions, are sometimes as
much under the dominion of Morpheus--and literally walk in their sleep from custom--as the
young and inexperienced betray the influence of some more seductive charm. The very bell that
called the drowsy student from his bed seemed to rise and fall in accordant sympathy with the
lethargic humour that prevailed, tolling in slow and half-sounding notes scarcely audible beyond
the college gates. The broken light, that shed its misty hue through the monastic aisle of
painted windows and clustered columns, gave an increased appearance of drowsiness to the scene;
while the chilling air of the ~270~~morning nipped the young and dissolute, as it fell in hazy
dews upon the bare-headed sons of alma mater, within many of whose bosoms the fires of the
previous night's debauch were but scarce extinguished. Then came the lazy unwashed scout, crawling
along the quadrangle, rubbing his heavy eyes, and cursing his hard fate to be thus compelled
to give early notice to some slumbering student of the hour of seven, waking him from dreams
of bliss, by thundering at his oak the summons to black matins. Now crept the youthful band
along the avenue, and one by one the drowsy congregation stole through the Gothic ante-chamber
that leads to Christ Church chapel, like unwilling victims to some pious sacrifice. Here a
lengthened yawn proclaimed the want of rest, and near a tremulous step and heavy half-closed
eye was observed, pacing across the marble floor, with hand pressed to his os frontis, as if
a thousand odd and sickly fantasies inhabited that chamber of the muses. Now two friends might
be seen, supporting a third, whose ghastly aspect bespoke him fresh in the sacred mysteries
of college parties and of Bacchus; but who had, nevertheless, undergone a tolerable seasoning
on the previous night. There a jolly Nimrod, who had just cleared the college walls, and reached
his rooms time enough to cover his hunting frock and boots with his academicals, was seen racing
along, to 'scape the prick bill's report, with his round hunting cap in his hand, in lieu of
the square tufted trencher of the schools. Night-caps thrown off in the entry--shoes and stockings
tied in the aisle--a red slipper and the black jockey boot decorating one pair of legs was
no uncommon sight; while on every side rushed forward the anxious group with gowns on one arm,
or trailing after them, or loosely thrown around the shoulders to escape tribulation, with
here and there a sentimental-looking personage of portly habit and solemn gait moving slowly
on, filled up the motley picture. The prayers were, indeed, brief, and ~271~~hurried through
with a rapidity that, I dare say, is never complained of by the togati; but is certainly little
calculated to impress the youthful mind with any serious respect for these relics of monkish
custom, which, after all, must be considered more in the light of a punishment for those who
are compelled to attend than any necessary or instructive service connected with the true interests
of orthodoxy. In a quarter of an hour the whole group had dispersed to their respective rooms,
and within the five minutes next ensuing, I should suppose, the greater part were again comfortably
deposited beneath their bedclothes, snoozing away the time till ten or twelve, to make up for
these inroads on the slumbers of the previous night. A few hours spent in my friend's rooms,
lolling on the sofa, while the scout prepared breakfast, and Tom decorated his person, brought
the awful hour of the morning, when all who had taken any very conspicuous share in the events
of the previous night were likely to hear of their misdoings, and receive a summons to appear
before the vice-chancellor in the Divinity school, better known by the name of Golgotha, or
the place of skulls, (see Plate); where, on this occasion, he was expected to meet the big
wigs, to confer on some important measures necessary for the future peace and welfare of the
university. The usual time had elapsed for these unpleasant visitations, and Echo was chuckling
finely at his dexterity in evading the eye of authority, nor was I a little pleased to have
escaped myself, when a single rap at the oak, not unlike the hard determined thump of an inflexible
dun, in one moment revived all our worst apprehensions, and, unfortunately, with too much reason
for the alarm. The proctors had marked poor Tom, and traced him out, and this visit was from
one of their bull-dogs, bringing a summons for Echo to attend before the vice-chancellor and
dignitaries. "What's to be done, old fellow?" said Echo; "I shall be ~272~~expelled to a certainty--and,
if I don't strike my own name off the books at the buttery hatch, shall be prevented making
a retreat to Cam roads.--You're out of the scrape, that's clear, and that affords me some hope;
for as you are fresh, your word will pass for something in extenuation, or arrest of judgment."
After some little time spent in anticipating the charges likely to be brought against him,
and arranging the best mode of defence, it was agreed that Echo should proceed forthwith to
Golgotha, and there, with undaunted front, meet his accusers; while I was to proceed to Transit
and Lionise, and having instructed them in the story we had planned, meet him at the place
of skulls, fully prepared to establish, by the most incontrovertible and consistent evidence,
that we were not the aggressors in the row. A little persuasion was necessary to convince both
our friends that their presence would be essential to Echo's acquittal; they had too many just
qualms, and fears, and prejudices of this inquisitorial court not to dread perhaps detection,
and a severe reprimand themselves: having, however, succeeded in this point, we all three compared
notes, and proceeded to where the vice-chancellor and certain heads of houses sat in solemn
judgment on the trembling togati. Echo was already under examination; one of the bull-dogs
had sworn particularly to Tom's being a most active leader in the fray of the previous night;
and having, in the contest, suffered a complete disorganization of his lower jaw, with the
total loss of sundry of his front rails, he took this opportunity of affixing the honour of
the deed to my unlucky friend, expecting, no doubt, a very handsome recompense would be awarded
him by the court. Expostulation was in vain: Transit, Lionise, and myself were successively
called in and examined very minutely, and although we all agreed to a letter in our story,
and made a very clever ~273~~defence of the culprit, we yet had the mortification to hear from
little Dodd, who kept the door, and who is always best pleased when he can convey unpleasant
tidings to the Gown, that Echo had received sentence of rustication for the remainder of the
term; and that Eglantine, in consideration of the imprisonment he had already undergone, and
some favourable circumstances in his case, was let off with a fine and imposition.

Thus ended the row of the Town and Gown, as far as our party was personally concerned; but
many of the members of the different colleges were equally unfortunate in meeting the heavy
censures and judgments of authority. I have just taken possession of my hospitium, and set
down with a determination to fagg; do, therefore, keep your promise, and enliven the dull routine
of college studies with some account of the world at Brighton.

Bernard Blackmantle.

          On what dread perils doth the youth adventure,
          Who dares within the Fellows' Bog to enter.

~275~~ That every age is an improved edition of the former I am not (recollecting the splendid
relics of antiquity) prepared to admit; but that the present is particularly distinguished
for discoveries in science, and vast improvements in mechanical arts, every accurate observer
must allow: the prodigious inventions of late years cannot fail in due time of producing that
perfectibility, the great consummation denominated the Millennium. Of all other improvements,
perhaps the most conspicuous are in the powers of motion as connected with the mode and means
of travelling. With what astonishment, were it possible to reanimate the clay-cold relics,
would our ancestors survey the accelerated perfection to which coaching is brought in the present
day! The journey from London to Brighton, for instance, was, half-a-century since, completed
at great risk in twenty-four hours, over a rough road that threatened destruction at every
turn; and required the most laborious exertion to reach the summit of precipices that are now,
like a ruined spendthrift, cut through and through: the declivities too have disappeared, and
from its level face, the whole country would appear to have undergone another revolutionary
change, even to the horses, harness, and the driver of the vehicle. In such a country as this,
where a disposition to activity and a rambling propensity to seek their fortunes forms one
of the most distinguishing characteristics, it was to be expected that travelling would be
brought to great perfection; but the most sanguine in this particular could never have anticipated
the rapidity with which we are now whirled from one end of the kingdom to the other; fifty-two
miles in five hours and a quarter, five changes of horses, and the same coachman to whisk you
back again to supper over the same ground, and within the limits of the same day. No ruts or
quarterings now--all level as a bowling-green--half-bred blood cattle--bright brass harness--minute
and a half time to change--and a well-bred gentlemanly fellow for a coachman, who amuses you
~276~~with a volume of anecdotes, if you are fortunate enough to secure the box-seat, or touches
his hat with the congee of a courtier, as he pockets your tributary shilling at parting. No
necessity either for settling your worldly affairs, or taking an affectionate farewell of a
long string of relations before starting; travelling being now brought to a security unparalleled,
and letters patent having passed the great seal of England to ensure, by means of safety coaches,
the lives of her rambling subjects. There requires but one other invention to render the whole
perfect, and that, if we may believe the newspapers, is very near completion--a coach to go
without horses: to this I beg leave to propose, the steam apparatus might be made applicable
to all the purposes of a portable kitchen. The coachman, instead of being a good judge of horse-flesh,
to be selected from a first rate London tavern for his proficiency in cooking, a known prime
hand at decomposing a turtle; instead of a book of roads, in the inside pocket should be placed
a copy of Mrs. Glasse on Cookery, or Dr. Kitchener on Culinaries; where the fore-boot now is
might be constructed a glazed larder, filled with all the good things in season: then too the
accommodation to invalids, the back seat of the coach, might be made applicable to all the
purposes of a shampooing or vapour bath--no occasion for Molineux or his black rival Mahomed;
book your patients inside back seat in London, wrap them up in blankets, and give directions
to the cook to keep up a good steam thermometer during the journey, 120°, and you may deliver
them safe at Brighton, properly hashed and reduced for any further medical experiments. (See
Engraving, p. 274.) The accommodation to fat citizens, and western gourmands, would be excellent,
the very height of luxury and refinement--inhaling the salubrious breeze one moment, and gurgling
down the glutinous calipash the next; no ~277~~exactions of impudent waiters, or imposing landlords,
or complaints of dying from hunger, or choking from the want of time to masticate; but every
wish gratified and every sense employed. Then how jovial and pleasant it would appear to see
perched up in front a John Bull-looking fellow in a snow-white jacket, with a night-cap and
apron of the same, a carving-knife in a case by his side, and a poker in his hand to stir up
the steam-furnace, or singe a highwayman's wig, should any one attack the coach; this indeed
would be an improvement worthy of the age, and call forth the warmest and most grateful tributes
of applause from all ranks in society. For myself, I have always endeavoured to read "men more
than books," and have ever found an endless diversity of character, a never-failing source
of study and amusement in a trip to a watering-place: perched on the top in summer, or pinched
inside in winter of a stage-coach, here, at leisure and unknown, I can watch the varied groups
of all nations as they roam about for profit or for pleasure, and note their varieties as they
pass away like the retiring landscape, never perhaps to meet the eye again.

The excursion to Brighton was no sooner finally arranged, than declining the proffered seat
in D'Almaine's travelling carriage, I packed up my portmanteau, and gave directions to my servant
to book me outside at the Golden Cross, by the seven o'clock morning coach, for Brighton; taking
care to secure the box-seat, by the payment of an extra shilling to the porter.

An inn-yard, particularly such a well-frequented one as the Golden Cross, Charing Cross, affords
the greatest variety of character and entertainment to a humorist. Vehicles to all parts of
the kingdom, and from the inscription on the Dover coaches, I might add to all parts of the
world, via Paris. "Does that coach go the whole way to France?" said an ~278~~unsuspecting
little piece of female simplicity to me, as I stood lolling on the steps at the coach-office
door. "Certainly," replied I, unthinkingly. "O, then I suppose," said the speaker, "they have
finished the projected chain-pier from Dover to Calais." "France and England united? nothing
more impossible," quoth I, correcting the impression I had unintentionally created. "Are you
going by the Brighton, mam?" "Yes, I be." "Can't take all that luggage." "Then you sha'n't
take me." "Don't wish to be taken for a waggon-man." "No, but by Jasus, friend, you are a wag-on-her,"
said a merry-faced Hibernian, standing by. "Have you paid down the dust, mam?" inquired the
last speaker. "I have paid for my place, sir," said the lady; "and I shall lose two, if I don't
go." "Then by the powers, cookey, you had better pay for one and a half, and that will include
luggage, and then you'll be a half gainer by the bargain." "What a cursed narrow hole this
is for a decent-sized man to cram himself in at?" muttered an enormous bulky citizen, sticking
half-way in the coach-door, and panting for breath from the violence of his exertions to drag
his hind-quarters after him. "Take these hampers on the top, Jack," said the porter below to
the man loading the coach, and quietly rested the baskets across the projecting ultimatum of
the fat citizen (to the no little amusement of the bystanders), who through his legs vociferated,
"I'll indict you, fellows; I'll be----if I don't, under Dick Martin's act." "It must be then,
my jewel," said the waggish Hibernian, "for overloading a mule." "Do we take the whole of you
to-day, sir?" said coachee, assisting to push him in. "What do you mean by the whole? I am
only one man." "A master tailor," said coachee, aside, "he must be then, with the pickings
of nine poor journeymen in his paunch." "Ish tere any room outshide te coach?" bawled out a
black-headed little Israelite; "ve shall be all shmotered vithin, ~279~~tish hot day; here
are too peepels inshite, vat each might fill a coach by temselves." "All right--all right;
take care of your heads, gemmen, going under the gateway; give the bearing rein of the near
leader one twist more, and pole up the off wheeler a link or two. All right, Tom--all right--stand
away from the horses' heads, there--ehewt, fee'e't!"--smack goes the whip, and away goes the
Brighton Times like a Congreve rocket, filled with all manner of combustibles.

The box-seat has one considerable advantage--it exempts you from the inquisitive and oftentimes
impertinent conversation of a mixed group of stage-coach passengers; in addition to which,
if you are fond of driving, a foible of mine, I confess, it affords an opportunity for an extra
lesson on the noble art of handling the ribbons, and at the same time puts you in possession
of all the topographical, descriptive, and anecdotal matter relative to the resident gentry
and the road.

The first two miles from the place of starting is generally occupied in clearing obstructions
on the road, taking up old maids at their own houses, with pug-dogs, pattens, and parrots,
or pert young misses at their papas' shop-doors; whose mammas take this opportunity of delaying
a coach-load of people to display their maternal tenderness at parting, while the junior branches
of the family hover round the vehicle, and assail your ears with lisping out their eternal
"good b'yes," and the old hairless head of the family is seen slyly tipping coachee an extra
shilling to take care of his darling girl. The Elephant and Castle produces another pull-up,
and here a branch-coach brings a load of lumber from the city, which, while the porter is stowing
away, gives time to exhibit the lions who are leaving London in every direction. King's Bench
rulers with needy habiliments, and lingering looks, sighing for term-time and ~280~~a horse,{1}
on one side the road, and Jews, newsmen, and touters, on the other; who nearly give away their
goods, if you believe them, for the good of the nation, or force you into a coach travelling
in direct opposition to the road for which you have been booked, and in which your luggage
may by such mischance happily precede you at least half a day. At length all again is declared
right, the supervisor delivers his way-bill, and forward moves the coach, at a somewhat brisker
pace, to Kennington Common. I shall not detain my readers here with a long dull account of
the unfortunate rebels who suffered on this spot in 1745; but rather direct their attention
to a neat Protestant church, which has recently been erected on the space between the two roads
leading to Croydon and Sutton, the portico of which is in fine architectural taste, and the
whole building a very great accommodation and distinguished ornament to the neighbourhood.
About half a mile farther, on the rise of Brixton hill, is another newly erected church, the
portico in the style of a Greek temple, and in an equally commanding situation: from this to
Croydon, ten miles, you have a tolerable specimen of civic taste in rural architecture.

On both sides of the road may be seen a variety of incongruous edifices, called villas and
cottage ornées, peeping up in all the pride of a retired linen-draper, or the consequential
authority of a man in office, in as many varied styles of architecture as of dispositions in
the different proprietors, and all exhibiting (in their possessors' opinion) claims to the
purest and most refined taste.

For example, the basement story is in the Chinese or Venetian style, the first floor in that
of the florid Gothic, with tiles and a pediment à-la-Nash, at the Bank; a doorway with inclined
jambs, and a hieroglyphic à-la-Greek: a gable-ended glass lean to on

     1 A day-rule, so called.

~281~~one side, about big enough for a dog-kennel, is called a green-house, while a similar
erection on the other affords retirement for the tit and tilbury; the door of which is always
set wide open in fine weather, to display to passers-by the splendid equipage of the occupier.
The parterre in front (green as the jaundiced eye of their less fortunate brother tradesmen)
is enriched with some dozens of vermilion-coloured flower-pots mounted on a japanned verdigris
frame, sending forth odoriferous, balmy, and enchanting gales to the grateful olfactory organs,
from the half-withered stems of pining and consumptive geraniums; to complete the picture,
two unique plaster casts of naked figures, the Apollo Belvidere and the Venus de Medici, at
most a foot in altitude, are placed on clumsy wooden pedestals of three times that height before
the parlour-windows, painted in a chaste flesh-colour, and guarded by a Whitechapel bull-cdog,
who, like another Cerberus, sits growling at the gate to fright away the child of poverty,
and insult the less wealthy pedestrian.

Happy country! where every man can consult his own taste, and build according to his own fancy,
amalgamating in one structure all the known orders and varieties, Persian, Egyptian, Athenian,
and European.

Croydon in 1573 contained the archiepiscopal palace of the celebrated Archbishop Parker, who,
as well as his successor Whitgift, here had frequently the honour to entertain Queen Elizabeth
and her court: the manor since the reign of William the Conqueror has belonged to the Archbishops
of Canterbury. The church is a venerable structure, and the stately tower, embowered with woods
and flanked by the Surrey hills, a most picturesque and commanding object; the interior contains
some monuments of antiquity well worthy the attention of the curious. The town itself has little
worthy of note except the hospital, ~282~~founded by Archbishop Whitgift for a warder and twenty
poor men and women, decayed housekeepers of Croyden and Lambeth: a very comfortable and well-endowed
retirement.

"This was formerly the King's road," said coachee, "but the radicals having thought proper
to insult his majesty on his passing through to Brighton during the affair of the late Queen,
he has ever since gone by the way of Sutton: a circumstance that has at least operated to produce
one christian virtue among the inhabitants, namely, that of humility; before this there was
no getting change for a civil sentence from them."

To Merstham seven miles, the road winds through a bleak valley called Smithem Bottom, till
recently the favourite resort of the cockney gunners for rabbit-shooting; but whether from
the noise of their harmless double-barrel Nocks, or the more dreadful carnage of the Croydon
poachers, these animals are now exceedingly scarce in this neighbourhood. Just as we came in
sight of Merstham, the distant view halloo of the huntsman broke upon our ears, when the near-leader
rising upon his haunches and neighing with delight at the inspiring sound, gave us to understand
that he had not always been used to a life of drudgery, but in earlier times had most likely
carried some daring Nimrod to the field, and bounded with fiery courage o'er hedge and gate,
through dell and brake, outstripping the fleeting wind to gain the honour of the brush. Ere
we had gained the village, reynard and the whole field broke over the road in their scarlet
frocks, and dogs and horses made a dash away for a steeple chase across the country, led by
the worthy-hearted owner of the pack, the jolly fox-hunting Colonel, Hilton Jolliffe, whose
residence caps the summit of the hill. From hence to Reigate, four miles farther, there was
no circumstance or object of interest, if I except a very romantic tale coachee ~283~~narrated
of his hunting leader, who had of course been bred in the stud of royalty itself, and had since
been the property of two or three sporting peers, when, having put out a spavin, during the
last hunting season, he was sold for a machiner; but being since fired and turned out, he had
come up all right, and was now, according to coachee's disinterested opinion, one of the best
hunters in the kingdom. As I was not exactly the customer coachee was looking for, being at
the time pretty well mounted, I thought it better to indulge him in the joke, particularly
as any doubt on my part might have soured the whip, and made him sullen for the rest of the
journey.

At Reigate a trifling accident happened to one of the springs of the coach, which detained
us half an hour, and enabled me to pay a visit to the celebrated sand cavern, where, it is
reported, the Barons met, during the reign of King John, to hold their councils and draw up
that great palladium of English liberty, Magna Charta, which was afterwards signed at Runnymede.

There was something awful about this stupendous excavation that impressed me with solemn thoughtfulness;
it lies about sixty feet from the surface of the earth, and is divided into three apartments
with arched roofs, the farthest of which is designated the Barons' Chamber. Time flowed back
upon my memory as I sat in the niches hewn out in the sides of the cavern, and meditation deep
usurped my mind as I dwelt on the recollections of history; on the

          "Majestic forms, and men of other times,
          Retired to fan the patriotic fire,
          Which, bursting forth at Runnymede,
          With rays of glory lightened all the land!"

Near to the mouth of this cavern stands the remains of Holms Castle, celebrated in the history
of the civil wars between Charles the First and his parliament; and on the site of an ancient
monastic establishment, ~284~~near to the spot, has been erected a handsome modern mansion
called the Priory of Holmsdale, the name of the valley in which the town is situate. Returning
to the inn I observed the new tunnel, which we had previously passed under, a recent work of
great labour and expense, which saves a considerable distance in the approach to the town;
it has been principally effected by a wealthy innkeeper, and certainly adds much to the advantage
and beauty of the place. Coachee had now made all right, and his anxious passengers were again
replaced in their former situations to proceed on our journey. The next stage, ten miles, to
Crawley, a picturesque place, afforded little variety, if I except an immense elm which stands
by the side of the road as you enter, and has a door in front to admit the curious into its
hollow trunk. Our next post was Cuckfield, nine miles, where I did not discover any thing worthy
of narration; from this to Brighton, twelve miles, coachee amused me with some anecdotes of
persons whom we passed upon the road. A handsome chariot, with a most divine little creature
in the inside, and a good-looking roué, with huge mustachios, first attracted my notice: "that
is the golden Ball," said coachee, "and his new wife; he often rolls down this road for a day
or two--spends his cash like an emperor--and before he was tied up used to tip pretty freely
for handling the ribbons, but that's all up now, for Mamsell Mercandotti finds him better amusement.
A gem-man who often comes down with me says his father was a slopseller in Ratcliffe Highway,
and afterwards marrying the widow of Admiral Hughes, a rich old West India nabob, he left this
young gemman the bulk of his property, and a very worthy fellow he is: but we've another rich
fellow that's rather notorious at Brighton, which we distinguish by the name of the silver
Ball, only he's a bit of a screw, and has lately ~285~~got himself into a scrape about a pretty
actress, from which circumstance they have changed his name to the Foote Ball. I suppose you
guess where I am now," said coachee, tipping me one of his knowing winks. "Do you see that
machine before us, a sort of cabriolet, with two horses drove in a curricle bar? that is another
swell who is very fond of Brighton, a Jew gentleman of the name of Solomon, whom the wags have
made a Christian of by the new appellation of the golden calf; but his godfathers were never
more out in their lives, for in splitting a bob, it's my opinion, he'd bother all Bevis Marks
and the Stock Exchange into the bargain." In this way we trotted along, gathering good air
and information at every step, until we were in sight of Brighton Downs, a long chain of hills,
which appear on either side; with their undulating surfaces covered with the sweet herb wild
thyme, and diversified by the numerous flocks of South-down sheep grazing on their loftiest
summits. After winding through the romantic valley of Preston, the white-fronted houses and
glazed bricks of Brighton break upon the sight, sparkling in the sun-beams, with a distant
glimpse of the sea, appearing, at first sight, to rise above the town like a blue mountain
in the distance: we entered the place along what is called the London Road, with a view of
the Pavilion before us, the favourite abode of royalty, shooting its minaret towers and glass
dome upwards in the most grotesque character, not unlike the representations of the Kremlin
at Moscow; exciting, at the first glance, among the passengers, the most varied and amusing
sallies of witticisms and conjectures.--Having procured a sketch of it from this view, I shall
leave you to contemplate, while I retire to my inn and make the necessary arrangements for
refreshment and future habitation.

By way of postscript, I enclose you a very entertaining scene I witnessed between D'Almaine
and ~286~~his wife the night previous to my journey: they are strange creatures; but you love
eccentrics, and may be amused with this little drama, which formed the motive for my visit.

Horatio Heartly. "All the prejudice of education" said D'Almaine, good-humouredly; "my old
uncle, the banker, to whose bounty we are both much indebted, my dear, early inculcated these
notions of thrift into the brain of a certain lighthearted young gentleman, whose buoyant spirits
sometimes led him a little beyond the barrier of prudence, and too often left him environed
with difficulties in the marshes of impediment. 'Look before you leap,' was a wise saw of the
old gentleman's; and 'be just before you're generous,' a proverb that never failed to accompany
a temporary supply, or an additional demand upon his generosity."--"Hang your old uncle!" replied
Lady Mary, pouting and trying to look ill-tempered in the face of Lord Henry's good-natured
remonstrance,--"I never ask a favour for myself, or solicit you to take the recreation necessary
to your own health and that of your family, but I am pestered with the revised musty maxims
of your dead old uncle. He has been consigned to the earth these ten years, and ~288~~if it
were not for the ten thousand per annum he left us, ought long since to have shared the fate
of his ancestry, whose names were never heard more of than the tributary tablet imparts to
the eye of curiosity in a country church, and within whose limits all inquiry ends." "Gratitude,
Lady Mary, if not respect for my feelings, should preserve that good man's name from reproach."
Lord Henry's eye was unusually expressive--he continued:--"The coronet that graces your own
soul-inspiring face would lack the lustre of its present brilliancy, but for the generous bequest
of the old city banker, whose plum was the sweetest windfall that ever dropt into the empty
purse of the poor possessor of an ancient baronial title. The old battlements of Crackenbury
have stood many a siege, 'tis true; but that formidable engine of modern warfare, the catapulta
of the auctioneer, had, but for him, proved more destructive to its walls than the battering-ram
and hoarse cannonades of ancient rebels."

~288~~When a woman is foiled at argument, she generally has recourse to finesse. Lady Mary
had made up her mind to carry her point; finding therefore the right column of her vengeance
turned by the smart attack of D'Almaine's raillery, she was determined to out-flank him with
her whole park of well-appointed artillery, consisting of all those endearing, solicitous looks
and expressions, that can melt the most obdurate heart, and command a victory over the most
experienced general. It was in vain that Lord Henry urged the unusual heavy expenses of the
season in town,--the four hundred paid for the box at the opera,--or the seven hundred for
the greys and the new barouche,--the pending demand from Messrs. Rundell's for the new service
of plate,--and the splendid alterations and additions just made to the old family hall,--with
~289~~numerous other most provoking items which the old steward had conjured up, as if on purpose,
to abridge the pleasures of Lady Mary's intended tour. "It was very distressing--she heartily
wished there was no such thing as money in the world--it made people very miserable--they were
a much happier couple, she contended, when they were merely Honourables, and lived upon a paltry
two thousand and the expectancy--there never was any difficulty then about money transactions,
and a proposition for a trip to a watering-place was always hailed with pleasure."--"True,
Lady Mary; but then you forget we travelled in a stage coach, with your maid on the outside,
while my man servant, with a led-horse, followed or preceded us. Then, we were content with
lodgings on the West-cliff, and the use of a kitchen: now, we require a splendid establishment,
must travel in our own chariot, occupy half a mews with our horses, and fill half a good-sized
barrack with our servants. Then, we could live snug, accept an invitation to dinner with a
commoner, and walk or ride about as we pleased, without being pointed at as lions or raro aves
just broke loose from the great state aviary at St. James's." "We shall scarcely be discovered,"
said Lady Mary, "among the stars that surround the regal planet."--"We shall be much mortified
then," said Lord Henry, facetiously.--"You are very provoking, D'Almaine. I know your turf
speculations have proved fortunate of late: I witnessed Sir Charles paying you a large sum
the other morning; and I have good reason for thinking you have been successful at the club,
for I have not heard your usual morning salutation to your valet, who generally on the occasion
of your losses receives more checks than are payable at your bankers. You shall advance me
a portion of your winnings, in return for which I promise you good health, good society, and,
perhaps, if the stars shoot ~290~~rightly, a good place for our second son. In these days of
peace, the distaff can effect more than the field-marshal's baton."--"Always provided," said
my sire (clapping his hand upon his os frontis), "that nothing else shoots out of such condescensions."

"But why has Brighton the preference as a watering place?" said Lord Henry: "the Isle of Wight
is, in my opinion, more retired; Southampton more select; Tunbridge Wells more rural; and Worthing
more social."--"True, D'Almaine; but I am not yet so old and woe-begone, so out of conceit
with myself, or misanthropic with the world, to choose either the retired, the select, the
rural, or the social. I love the bustle of society, enjoy the promenade on the Steyne, and
the varied character that nightly fills the libraries; I read men, not books, and above all
I enjoy the world of fashion. Where the King is, there is concentrated all that is delightful
in society. Your retired dowagers and Opposition peers may congregate in rural retirement,
and sigh with envy at the enchanting splendour of the court circle; those only who have felt
its cheering influence can speak of its inspiring pleasures; and all who have participated
in the elegant scene will laugh at the whispers of malignity and the innuendoes of disappointment,
which are ever pregnant with some newly invented on dit of scandalous tendency, to libel a
circle of whom they know nothing but by report; and that report, in nine instances out of ten,
'the weak invention of the enemy.'" "Bravo, Lady Mary; your spirited defence of the Pavilion
party does honour to your heart, and displays as much good sense as honest feeling; but a little
interest, methinks, lurks about it for all that: I have not forgotten the honour we received
on our last visit; and you, I can perceive, anticipate a renewal of the same gratifying condescension;
so give James his instructions, and let him proceed to Brighton to-morrow to make the necessary
arrangements for our arrival."

~291~~Thus ended the colloquy in the usual family manner, when well-bred men entertain something
more than mere respect for their elegant and accomplished partners. I had long sighed for an
opportunity to view the interior of that eccentric building; but to have enjoyed such a treat,
made doubly attractive by the presence of the King, reposing from the toils of state in his
favourite retreat, and surrounded by the select circle of his private friends, was more than
my most sanguine expectations could have led me to conjecture. Suspending, therefore, my curiosity
until the morrow, relative to the Steyne, the beach, the libraries, and the characters, I made
a desperate effort in embellishing, to look unusually stylish, and as usual, never succeeded
so ill in my life. Our residence on the Grand Parade is scarcely a hundred yards from, and
overlooks the Pavilion--a circumstance which had quite escaped my recollection; for with all
the natural anxiety of a young and ardent mind, I had fully equipped myself before the Count
had even thought of entering his dressing-room. Half-an-hour's lounge at the projecting window
of our new habitation, on a tine summer's evening, gave me an opportunity of remarking the
~293~~singular appearance the front of this building presents:

          "If minarets, rising together, provoke
          From the lips of the vulgar the old-fashioned joke--

          'De gustibus non est (I think) disputandum'
          The taste is plebeian that quizzes at random."

There is really something very romantic in the style of its architecture, and by no means inelegant;
perhaps it is better suited for the peculiar situation of this marine palace than a more classical
or accredited order would be. It has been likened, on its first appearance, to a chess-board;
but, in my thinking, it more nearly resembles that soul-inspiring scene, the splendid banquet
table, decorated in the best style of modern grandeur, and covered with the usual plate and
glass enrichments: for instance, the central dome represents the water magnum, the towers right
and left, with their pointed spires, champagne bottles, the square compartments on each side
are exactly like the form of our fashionable liqueur stands, the clock tower resembles the
centre ornament of a plateau, the various small spires so many enriched candelabra, the glass
dome a superb dessert dish; but

         "Don't expect, my dear boy, I can similies find
          For a heap of similitudes so undefined.
          And why should I censure tastes not my concern?
         'Tis as well for the arts that all tastes have their turn."

If I had written for three hours on the subject, I could not have been more explicit; you have
only to arrange the articles in the order enumerated, and you have a model of the upper part
of the building before you. At nine o'clock we made our entré into the Pavilion, westward,
passing through the vestibule and hall, when we entered one of the most superb apartments that
art or fancy can devise, whether for richness of effect, decoration, and design: this is ~294~~called
the Chinese Gallery, one hundred and sixty-two feet in length by seventeen feet in breadth,
and is divided into five compartments, the centre being illumined with a light of stained glass,
on which is represented the God of Thunder, as described in the Chinese mythology, surrounded
by the imperial five-clawed dragons, supporting pendent lanterns, ornamented with corresponding
devices. The ceiling or cove is the colour of peach blossom; and a Chinese canopy is suspended
round from the lower compartment with tassels, bells, &c.: the furniture and other decorations,
such as cabinets, chimney-piece, trophies, and banners, which are in the gallery, are all in
strict accordance with the Chinese taste; while on every side the embellishments present twisted
dragons, pagodas, and mythological devices of birds, flowers, insects, statues, formed from
a yellow marble; and a rich collection of Oriental china. The extreme compartments north and
south are occupied by chased brass staircases, the lateral ornaments of which are serpents,
and the balusters resemble bamboo. In the north division is the fum{1} or Chinese bird of royalty:
this gallery opens into the music room, an apartment forty-two feet square, with two recesses
of ten feet each, and rising in height forty-one feet, to a dome thirty feet in diameter. The
magnificence and imposing grandeur of effect surpasses all effort at detail. It presented a
scene of enchantment which brought to recollection the florid descriptions, in the Persian
Tales, of the palaces of the genii: the prevailing decoration is executed in green gold, and
produces a most singularly splendid effect. On the walls are twelve highly finished paintings,
views in China, principally near Pekin, imitative of the crimson japan.

     1 The fum is said to be found in no part of the world but
     China. It is described as of most admirable beauty; and
     their absence for any time from the imperial city regarded
     as an omen of misfortune to the royal family. The emperor
     and mandarins have the semblance of these birds embroidered
     on their vestments.

~295~~The dome appears to be excavated out of a rock of solid gold, and is supported by an
octagonal base, ornamented with the richest Chinese devices; at each angle of the room is a
pagoda-tower, formed of the most costly materials in glass and china, with lamps attached;
beneath the dome and base is a splendid canopy, supported by columns of crimson and gold, with
twisted serpents of enormous size, and terrific expression surrounding them. A magnificent
organ, by Sinclair, the largest and best in the kingdom, occupies the north recess, twenty
feet in width, length, and height: there are two entrances to this room, one from the Egyptian
gallery, and another from the yellow drawing-room, each under a rich canopy, supported by gold
columns. A beautiful chimney-piece of white statuary marble, and an immense mirror, with splendid
draperies of blue, red, and yellow satin, rare china jars, and ornaments in ormolu, increase
the dazzling brilliancy of the apartment. As this was my first appearance in the palace, the
Countess, very considerately, proposed to Sir H----T----, who conducted us, that we should
walk through the other public apartments, before we were ushered into the presence chamber--a
proposition the good-natured equerry very readily complied with. Repassing, therefore, the
whole length of the Chinese gallery, the southern extremity communicates with the Royal Banqueting
Room, sixty feet in length, by forty-two in breadth: the walls are bounded at the height of
twenty-three feet by a cornice, apparently inlaid with pearls and gold, from which spring four
ecliptic arches, supported by golden columns, surmounted with a dome, rising to a height of
forty-five feet, and constructed to represent an eastern sky; beneath which is seen spreading
the broad umbrageous foliage of the luxuriant plantain, bearing its fruit and displaying, in
all the progressive stages, ~296~~the different varieties, from the early blossom to maturity:
curious Chinese symbols are suspended from the trunk, and connect themselves with a grand lustre,
rising to a height of thirty feet, and reflecting the most varied and magical effect, being
multiplied by other lustres, in the several angles adjoining. The walls are decorated with
groups of figures, nearly the size of life, portraying the costume of the higher classes of
the Chinese; domestic episodes, painted on a ground of imitative pearl, richly wrought, in
all the varied designs of Chinese mythology. The furniture is of the most costly description--rose-wood
inlaid with mother-of-pearl, and enriched with or molu chasings of the most elegant design;
the effect of which is admirably contrasted with the rich glossy jars of blue porcelain, of
English manufacture, and magnificent brilliancy. Centrally, between these magnificent apartments,
is the Rotunda or Saloon; an oblong interior of fifty-five feet in length, the decoration chaste
and classical in the extreme, being simply white and gold, the enriched cornice being supported
by columns and pilasters, and the whole decoration uniting coolness with simplicity. The passages
to some of the minor apartments are unique in their style of embellishment, which appears to
be of polished white marble, but is, in fact, nothing but a superior Dutch tile, cemented smoothly,
in plaster of Paris, and highly varnished. There are many other private and anterooms to the
west of the Chinese gallery, the decorations of which are more simple, but in a corresponding
style. We had now arrived at the Yellow Room (see Plate), where we understood his Majesty would
receive his evening party.

The apartment is fifty-six feet in length, by twenty in breadth, and is hung round with a rich
fluted drapery of yellow satin, suspended from the ceiling, and representing a magnificent
Chinese tent, from the centre of which hangs a chandelier of ~237~~the most splendid design,
the light of which is diffused through painted glasses, resembling in shape and colour every
variety of the tulip, exciting the greatest admiration. The chimney-piece is Chinese, the stove
formed by chimera chased in or molu, the figures above being models or automatons, of nearly
the size of life, dressed in splendid costume, occasionally moving their heads and arms. The
furniture of the room is of a similar character to those already described, except the seats,
which are ottomans of yellow velvet, the window draperies being of the same splendid material.
It was in this truly royal apartment we had the honour of waiting the approach of his Majesty,
who entered, at about a quarter before ten, apparently in the enjoyment of the most excellent
health and highest spirits. He was preceded by Sir A. F. Barnard and Lord Francis Conyngham,
the grooms in waiting, and entered with the Princess Augusta leaning on his arm, the left of
her royal highness being supported by the Duke of York; the Marquis of Conyngham followed,
leading in his Marchioness; and the beautiful and accomplished Lady Elizabeth honoured Sir
William Knighton as her conductor. The old Earl of Arran came hobbling on his crutches, dreadfully
afflicted with the gout. Sir C. Paget, that merry son of Neptune, with Sir E. Nagle, followed;
the rear being brought up by the fascinating Countess of Warwick and her ever constant earl.
(See Plate.) Do not imagine, my dear Bernard, that I shall so far outrage the honourable feelings
of a gentleman as to relate every word, look, or action, of this illustrious party, for the
rude ear of eager curiosity. Those only who have witnessed the Monarch in private life, freed
from the weight of state affairs, and necessary regal accompaniments, can form a correct judgment
of the unaffected goodness of his heart; the easy affability, and pliant condescension, with
which he can divest ~298~~every one around him of any feeling of restraint--the uncommon sprightliness
and vivacity he displays in conversation--the life and soul of all that is elegant and classical,
and the willing participator and promoter of a good joke. Suffice it to say, the reception
was flattering in the extreme, the entertainment conversational and highly intellectual. The
moments flew so quickly, that I could have wished the hour of eleven, the period of the King's
retiring, had been extended to the noontide of the morrow. But is this all, I think I can hear
you say, this friend of my heart dares to repose with me on a subject so agreeable? No--you
shall have a few on dits, but nothing touching on the scandalous; gleanings, from Sir E----
and Sir C----, the jesters of our sovereign lord the King; but nothing that might excite a
blush in the cheek of the lovely Countess, to whom I was indebted for the honour and delight
I on that occasion experienced. Imprimis:--I know you are intimate with that inimitable child
of whim, Charles Mathews. He is in high estimation with royalty, I assure you; and annually
receives the King's command to deliver a selection from his popular entertainments before him--an
amusement of which his Majesty speaks in terms of the warmest admiration. On the last occasion,
a little scena occurred that must have been highly amusing; as it displays at once the kind
recollections of the King, and his amiable disposition. As I had it from Sir C----, you may
depend upon its authenticity. I shall denominate it the King at Home, or Mathews in Carlton
Palace. (See Plate.)

Previous to Mathews leaving this country for America, he exhibited a selection from his popular
entertainments, by command of his Majesty, at Carlton Palace.--A party of not more than six
or eight persons were present, including the Princess Augusta and the Marchioness of Conyngham.
During ~299~~the entertainment (with which the King appeared much delighted), Mathews introduced
his imitations of various performers on the British stage, and was proceeding with John Kemble
in the Stranger, when he was interrupted by the King, who, in the most affable manner, observed
that his general imitations were excellent, and such as no one who had ever seen the characters
could fail to recognise; but he thought the comedian's portrait of John Kemble somewhat too
boisterous.--"He is an old friend, and I might add, tutor of mine," observed his Majesty: "when
I was Prince of Wales he often favoured me with his company. I will give you an imitation of
John Kemble," said the good-humoured monarch. Mathews was electrified. The lords of the bed-chamber
eyed each other with surprise. The King rose and prefaced his imitations by observing, "I once
requested John Kemble to take a pinch of snuff with me, and for this purpose placed my box
on the table before him, saying 'Kemble, oblige (obleege) me by taking a pinch of snuff' He
took a pinch, and then addressed me thus:--(Here his Majesty assumed the peculiar carriage
of Mr. Kemble.) 'I thank your Royal Highness for your snuff, but, in future, do extend your
royal jaws a little wider, and say Oblige.'" The anecdote was given with the most powerful
similitude to the actor's voice and manners, and had an astonishing effect on the party present.
It is a circumstance equally worthy of the King and the scholar. Mathews, at the conclusion,
requested permission to offer an original anecdote of Kemble, which had some affinity to the
foregoing. Kemble had been for many years the intimate friend of the Earl of Aberdeen. On one
occasion he had called on that nobleman during his morning's ride, and left Mrs. Kemble in
the carriage at the door. John and the noble earl were closely engaged on some literary subject
a very long time, while Mrs. Kemble was ~300~~shivering in the carriage (it being very cold
weather). At length her patience being exhausted, she directed her servant to inform his master
that she was waiting, and feared the cold weather would bring on an attack of the rheumatism.
The fellow proceeded to the door of the earl's study, and delivered his message, leaving out
the final letter in rheumatism.--This he had repeated three several times, by direction of
his mistress, before he could obtain an answer. At length, Kemble, roused from his subject
by the importunities of the servant, replied, somewhat petulantly, "Tell your mistress I shall
not come, and, fellow, do you in future say 'tism."

Among the party assembled on this occasion was the favoured son of Esculapius, Sir W---- K----,
the secret of whose elevation to the highest confidence of royalty is one of those mysteries
of the age which it is in vain to attempt to unravel, and which, perhaps, cannot be known to
more than two persons in existence: great and irresistible, however, must that influence be,
whether moral or physical, which could obtain such dominion over the mind as to throw into
the shade the claims of rank and courtly lions, and place an humble disciple of Esculapius
on the very summit of royal favour. Of his gentlemanly and amusing talents in society every
one must speak in terms of the highest praise, and equally flattering are the reports of his
medical skill; but many are the fleeting causes and conjectures assigned for his supremacy--reports
which may not be written here, lest I assist in the courtly prattle of misrepresentation. Sir
W---- was, I believe, the executor of an old and highly-favoured confidential secretary; might
not certain circumstances arising out of that trust have paved the way to his elevation? If
the intense merits of the individual have raised him to the dazzling ~301~~height, the world
cannot value them too highly, and sufficiently extol the discrimination of the first sovereign
and first gentleman of the age who could discover and reward desert with such distinguished
honour. But if his elevation is the result of any sacrifice of principle, or of any courtly
intrigue to remove a once equally fortunate rival, and pave his path with gold, there are few
who would envy the favoured minion: against such suspicion, however, we have the evidence of
a life of honour, and the general estimation of society. Of his predecessor, and the causes
for his removal, I have heard some curious anecdotes, but these you shall have when we meet.
A very good story is in circulation here among the court circle relative to the eccentric Lady
C---- L----, and a young marchioness, who, spite of the remonstrances of her friends and the
general good taste of the ladies in that particular, recently selected an old man for a husband,
in preference to a choice of at least twenty young and titled, dashing roués: the whim and
caprice of the former is notorious, while the life and animation of the little marchioness
renders her the brightest star of attraction in the hemisphere of fashion. "I should like to
see Billingsgate, amazingly," said the marchioness to her eccentric friend, while reading a
humorous article on the subject in the Morning Chronicle. "It must be entertaining to hear
the peculiar phraseology and observe the humorous vulgarities of these naiades, if one could
do so incog." "And why not, my dear?" said Lady C----; "you know there never was a female Quixote
in existence among the petticoat blue-stockings, from Lady Wortley Montague to Lady Morgan,
who was more deeply affected with the Tom and Jerry mania than I am: leave all to me, and I'll
answer for taking you there safely, enjoying the scene securely, and escaping without chance
of detection." With Lady ~302~~C---- a whim of this description is by no means unusual, and
the necessary attendance of a confidential servant to protect, in case of danger, a very essential
personage. To this Mercury, Lady C---- confided her plan; giving directions for the completion
of it on the morning of the morrow, and instructing him to obtain disguises from his wife,
who is an upper servant in the family, for the use of the ladies. John, although perfectly
free from any alarm on account of Lady C----, should the whim become known, was not so easy
in respect to the young and attractive marchioness, whose consort, should any thing unpleasant
occur, John wisely calculated, might interfere to remove him from his situation. With this
resolve he prudently communicated the ladies' intention to a confidential friend of the marquis,
who, on receiving an intimation of their intentions, laughed at the whim, and determined to
humour the joke, by attending the place, properly disguised, to watch at a distance the frolic
of the ladies. The next morning, at the appointed hour, the footman brought a hackney-coach
to the door, and the ladies were quickly conveyed to the scene of action, followed (unknowingly)
by the marquis and his friend. Here they amused themselves for some time in walking about and
observing the bustle and variety of the, to them, very novel scene; soon, however, fatigued
with the mobbing, thrusting, and filthiness, which is characteristic of the place, the marchioness
was for returning, remarking to her friend that she had as yet heard none of that singular
broad humour for which these nymphs of the fish-market were so celebrated. "Then you shall
have a specimen directly," said Lady C----, "if I can provoke it; only prepare your ethics
and your ears for a slight shock; "and immediately approaching an old fresh-water dragon, who
sat behind an adjoining stall, with a countenance spirited in the ~303~~extreme, and glowing
with all the beautiful varieties of the ultra-marine and vermilion, produced by the all-potent
properties of Hodge's full-proof, she proceeded to cheapen the head and shoulders of a fine
fish that lay in front of her, forcing her fingers under the gills, according to the approved
custom of good housewives, to ascertain if it was fresh.

After a parley as to price, Lady C---- hinted that she doubted its being perfectly sweet: the
very suspicion of vending an unsavoury article roused the old she-dragon at once into one of
the most terrific passions imaginable, and directing all her ire against the ladies, she poured
forth a volley of abuse fiery and appalling as the lava of a volcano, which concluded as follows.--"Not
sweet, you ----," said the offended deity; "how can I answer for its sweetness, when you have
been tickling his gills with your stinking paws 1 " (See Plate.) The marchioness retreated
at the first burst of the storm, but Lady C----continued to provoke the old naiad of the shambles,
till she had fully satisfied her humour. Again safely escorted home by the liveried Mercury,
the ladies thought to have enjoyed their joke in perfect security; but what was their astonishment,
when on meeting the marquis and a select party at dinner, to find the identical fish served
up at their own table, and the marquis amusing his friends by relating the whole circumstances
of the frolic, as having occurred to two ladies of distinction during the laughter-loving days
of Charles the Second. I need not animadvert upon the peculiar situation of the ladies, who,
blushing through a crimson veil of the deepest hue, bore the raillery of the party assembled
with as much good sense as good nature; acknowledging the frolic, and joining in the laugh
the joke produced. Beneath, you have one of our facetious friend Bob Transit's humorous sketches
of an incident said to have occurred near B---- H----: in which an eccentric ~304~~lady chose
to call up the servants in the dead of the night, order out the carriage, and mounting the
box herself, insisted upon giving the footman, who had been somewhat tardy in leaving his bed,
a gentle airing in his shirt. The clean pebble shore extending, as it does here, for a long
distance beneath the east cliff, is a great advantage to those who, from indisposition or luxury,
seek a dip in the ocean. One practice struck me as being a little objectionable, namely, the
machines of the males and females being placed not only within sight of each other, but actually
close alongside; by which circumstance, the sportive nymphs sometimes display more of nature's
charms to the eager gaze of her wanton sons than befits me to tell, or decency to dwell on.
I could not, however, with all the purity of my ethics, help envying a robust fellow who was
assisting in clucking the dear unencumbered creatures under the rising wave.{1}

     1 Some of the female bathers are very adventurous, and from
     the great drawback of water many accidents have occurred.
     I was much amused one morning with three sisters, in the
     machine adjoining mine, continually crying out to a male
     attendant "to push on, and not be afraid of the
     consequences; we can all swim well," said one of the Miss
     B----'s (well known as the marine graces). "But my machine
     a'n't water-tight," replied the bathing-man, "and if I
     trust it any farther in, I shall never be able to get it out
     again." A Frenchman who came down to bathe with his wife and
     sister insisted upon using the same machine with the ladies;
     the bathing-women remonstrated, but monsieur retorted very
     fairly thus--"Mon dieu I vat is dat vat you tell me about
     décence. Tromperie--shall I no dip mon femme a sour
     myself vith quite as much bienséance as dat vulgar brute
     vat I see ducking de ladies yondere?"

~306~~The naiads of the deep are a strange race of mortals, half fish and half human, with
a masculine coarseness of manner that, I am told, has been faithfully copied from their great
original, the once celebrated Martha Gun. It is not unusual for these women to continue in
the water up to their waists for four hours at a time, without suffering the least affection
of cold or rheumatism, and living to a great age. A dingy empiric has invented a new system
of humbug which is in great repute here, and is called shampooing; a sort of stewing alive
by steam, sweetened by being forced through odoriferous herbs, and undergoing the pleasant
sensation of being dabbed all the while with pads of flannels through holes in the wet blankets
that surround you, until the cartilaginous substances of your joints are made as pliable as
the ligaments of boiled calves' feet, your whole system relaxed and unnerved, and your trembling
legs as useless in supporting your body as a pair of boots would be without the usual quantity
of flesh and bone within them. The Steyne affords excellent subject for the study of character,
and the pencil of the humorist; the walks round are paved with brick, which, when the thermometer
is something above eighty-six in the shade (the case just now), is very like pacing your parched
feet over the pantiles of a Turkish stove. There is, indeed, a ~307~~grass-plot within the
rails, but the luxury of walking upon it is reserved for the fishermen of the place exclusively,
except on some extraordinary occasion, when the whole rabble of the town are let loose to annoy
the visitants by puffing tobacco smoke in their faces, or jostling and insulting them with
coarse ribaldry, until the genteel and decent are compelled to quit the promenade. I have had
two or three such specimens of Brighton manners while staying here, and could only wish I had
the assistance of about twenty of the Oxfordtogati, Trinitarians, or Bachelors of Brazennose.
I think we should hit upon some expedient to tame these brutes, and teach them civilized conduct--an
Herculean labour which the town authorities seem afraid to attempt. The easy distance between
this and the metropolis, with the great advantages of expeditious travelling, enable the multitudinous
population of London to pour forth its motley groups, in greater variety than at any other
watering place, Margate excepted, with, however, this difference in favour of the former, that
the mixture had more of the sprinkling of fashion about them, here and there a name of note,
a splendid equipage, or a dazzling star, to illumine the dull nomenclatures in the library
books of the Johnson's, the Thomson's, the Brown's, and the Levi's. The last-mentioned fraternity
congregate here in shoals, usurp all the best lodgings, at the windows of which they are to
be seen soliciting notice, with their hooked noses, copper countenances, and inquisitive eyes,
decked out in all the faded finery of Petticoat-lane, or Bevis Marks; while the heads of the
houses of Israel run down on a Saturday, after the Stock Exchange closes, and often do as much
business here on the Sabbath, in gambling speculations for the account day, as they have done
all the week before in London. Here, too, you have the felicity to meet your tailor in his
tandem, your ~308~~butcher on his trotter, your shoemaker in a fly, and your wine-merchant
with his bit of blood, his girl, and tilbury, making a greater splash than yourself, and pleasantly
pointing you out to observation as a long-winded one, a great gambler, or some other such gratuitous
return for your ill-bestowed patronage. To amalgamate with such canaille is impossible--you
are therefore driven into seclusion, or compelled to confine your visits and amusements to
nearly the same circle you have just left London to be relieved from. Among the "observed"
of the present time, the great star of attraction is the rich Banker's widow, who occupies
the corner house of the Grand Parade, eclipsing in splendid equipages and attendants an Eastern
nabob, or royalty itself. Good fortune threw old Crony in my way, just as I had caught a glimpse
of the widow's cap: you know his dry sarcastic humour and tenacious memory, and perhaps I ought
to add, my inquisitive disposition. From him I gleaned a sketch of the widow's history, adorned
with a few comments, which gallantry to the fair sex will not allow me to repeat. She had just
joined conversation with the Marquis of H----, who was attended by Jackson, the pugilist; an
illustrious personage and a noble earl were on her left; while behind the jolie dame, at a
respectful distance, paced two liveried emblems of her deceased husband's bounty, clad in the
sad habiliments of woe, and looking as merry as mutes at a rich man's funeral. (See Plate.)

"She has the reputation of being very charitable," said I. "She has," responded Crony; "but
the total neglect of poor Wewitzer, in the hour of penury and sickness, is no proof of her
feeling, much less of her generosity. I have known her long," continued Crony, "from her earliest
days of obscurity and indigence to these of unexampled prosperity, and I never could agree
with common report in that particular." I dare say I looked at this moment very ~309~~significantly;
for Crony, without waiting my request, continued his history. "Her father was the gay and dissolute
Jack Kinnear, well known in Dublin for his eccentricities about the time of the Rebellion,
in which affair he made himself so conspicuous that he was compelled to expatriate, and fled
to England by way of Liverpool; where his means soon failing, Jack, never at a loss, took up
the profession of an actor, and succeeded admirably. His animated style and attractive person
are still spoken of with delight by many of the old inhabitants of Carlisle, Rochdale, Kendal,
and the neighbouring towns of Lancashire, where he first made his appearance in an itinerant
company, then under the management of a man of the name of Bibby, and in whose house, under
very peculiar circumstances, our heroine was born; but

          'Merit and worth from no condition rise;
          Act well your part--there all the honour lies.'

~309~~That little Harriet was a child of much promise there is no doubt, playing, in her mother's
name, at a very early period, all the juvenile parts in Bibby's company with great éclat until
she attained the age of eighteen, when her abilities procured her a situation to fill the first
parts in genteel comedy in the theatres-royal Manchester and Liverpool. From this time her
fame increased rapidly, which was not a little enhanced by her attractive person, and consequent
number of admirers; for even among the cotton lords of Manchester a fine-grown, raven-locked,
black-eyed brunette, arch, playful, and clever, could not fail to create sensations of desire:
but at this time the affections of the lady were fixed on a son of Thespis, then a member of
the same company, and to whom she was shortly afterwards betrothed; but the marriage, from
some capricious cause or other, was never consummated: the actor, well-known as Scotch Grant,
is now much reduced in life, and a member of ~310~~one of the minor companies of the metropolis.
On her quitting Liverpool, in 1794, she played at the Stafford theatre during the election
contest, where, having the good-fortune to form an intimacy with the Hortons, a highly-respectable
family then resident there, and great friends of Sheridan, they succeeded, on the return of
that gentleman to parliament for the borough of Stafford, to obtain from him an engagement
for our heroine at the theatre-royal Drury Lane, of which he was at that time proprietor. 'Brevity
is the soul of wit,'" said Crony: "I shall not attempt to enumerate all the parts she played
there; suffice it to say, she was successful, and became a great favourite with the public.
It was here she first attracted the notice of the rich old banker, who having just discarded
another actress, Mrs. M----r, whom he had kept some time, on account of an intimacy he discovered
with the lady and P----e, the oboe player, he made certain propositions, accompanied with such
liberal presents, that the fair yielded to the all-powerful influence, not of love, but gold;
and having, through the interference of poor W----, secured to herself a settlement which made
her independent for life, threw out the well-planned story of the lottery ticket, as a 'tub
to the whale': a stratagem that, for some time, succeeded admirably, until a malicious wag
belonging to the company undertook to solve the riddle of her prosperity, by pretending to
bet a wager of one hundred, that the lady had actually gained twenty thousand pounds by the
lottery, and he would name the ticket: with this excuse, for what otherwise might have been
deemed impertinent, he put the question, and out of the reply developed the whole affair. All
London now rung with the splendour of her equipage, the extent of her charities, and the liberality
of her conduct to an old actor and a young female friend, Miss S----n, who was invariably seen
with ~311~~her in public. Such was the notoriety of the intimacy, that the three married daughters
of the banker, all persons of title and the highest respectability, thought it right to question
their father, relative to the truth of the reports in circulation. Whatever might have been
their apprehensions, their fears were quieted by the information, that the lady in question
was a natural daughter, born previous to the alliance to which they owed their birth: this
assurance not only induced the parties to admit her to their presence, but she was also introduced
to, and became intimate with, the wife of the man to whom she owes her present good fortune.
It was now, that, feeling herself secure, she displayed that capricious feeling which has since
marked her character: poor W----r, her mentor and defender, was on some mere pretence abandoned,
and a sturdy blustering fellow, in the same profession, substituted for the sincere adviser,
the witty and agreeable companion: it was to R----d she sent a present of one thousand pounds,
for a single ticket, on his benefit night. But her ambition had not yet attained its highest
point: the banker's wife died, and our fortunate heroine was elected to her place while yet
the clay-cold corse of her predecessor remained above ground; a circumstance, which brought
down a heavy calamity on the clerical who performed the marriage rites,{2} but which was remedied
by an annuity from the banker. From this period, the haughty bearing of the lady exceeded all
bounds; the splendour of her establishment, the extravagance of her parties, and the munificence
of her charities, trumpeted forth by that many-tongued oracle, the public press, eclipsed the
brilliancy of the

     2 Saturnine B----n, the author of 'the stage,' a Poem, on
     hearing the day after her marriage with the banker, a
     conversation relative to her age, said he was sure the
     party were all in error, as there could be no doubt the lady
     was on the previous night under age.

~312~~royal banquets, and outshone the greatest and wealthiest of the stars of fashion. About
this time, her hitherto inseparable companion made a slip with a certain amorous manager; and
such was the indignation of our moral heroine on the discovery, that she spurned the unfortunate
from her for ever, and actually turned the offending spark out of doors herself, accompanying
the act with a very unladylike demonstration of her vengeance. B----d, her most obsequious
servant, died suddenly. Poor Dr. J---- A----s, who gave up a highly respectable and increasing
practice, in Greek-street, Soho, as a physician, to attend, exclusively, on the 'geud auld
mon' and his rib, met such a return for his kindness and attention, that he committed suicide.
Her next friend, a Mr. G----n, a very handsome young man, who was induced to quit his situation
in the bank for the office of private secretary, made a mistake one night, and eloped with
the female confidante of the banker's wife, a crime for which the perpetrator could never hope
to meet with forgiveness. It is not a little singular," said Crony, "that almost all her intimate
acquaintances have, sooner or later, fallen into disrepute with their patroness, and felt how
weak is the reliance upon the capricious and the wayward." On the death of the old banker,
our heroine had so wheedled the dotard, that he left her, to the surprise of the world, the
whole of his immense property, recommending only certain legacies, and leaving an honourable
and high-minded family dependent upon her bountiful consideration. "I could relate some very
extraordinary anecdotes arising out of that circumstance," said Crony; "but you must be content
with one, farcical in the extreme, which fully displays the lady's affection for her former
profession, and shows she is a perfect mistress of stage effect. On the removal of the shrivelled
remains of the old dotard for interment, his affectionate rib accompanied the ~313~~procession,
and when they rested for the night at an inn on the road, guarded them in death as she had
done in the close of life, by sleeping on a sofa in the same room. Cruel, cruel separation!
what a scene for the revival of 'grief à la mode!' "But she is unhappy with all her wealth,"
said the cynic. "Careless as some portion of our nobility are in their choice of companions
for their sports or pleasures, they have yet too much consideration left of what is due to
their rank, their wives, and daughters, not to hesitate before they receive----. But never
mind," said Crony; "you know the rest. You must have heard of a recent calamity which threatened
the lady; and on which that mad wag, John Bull, let fly some cutting jokes. A very sagacious
police magistrate, accompanied by one of his indefatigables, went to inspect the premises,
accompanied by a gentleman of the faculty; but, after all their united efforts to unravel the
mystery, it turned out a mere scratch, a very flat affair.

~314~~"I think," said Crony, "we have now arrived at the ultimatum of the widow's history,
and may as well take a turn or two up the Steyne, to look out for other character. The ancient
female you perceive yonder, leaning on her tall gold-headed cane, is Miss J----s, a maid of
honour to the late Queen Charlotte, and the particular friend of Mrs. F----l: said to be the
only one left out of eight persons, who accompanied two celebrated personages, many years since,
in a stolen matrimonial speculation to Calais.

She is as highly respected as her friend Mrs. F----l is beloved here." "Who the deuce is that
strange looking character yonder, enveloped in a boat-cloak, and muffled up to the eyes with
a black handkerchief?" "That is a very important personage in a watering place, I assure you,"
replied Crony; "being no other than the celebrated Peter Paragraph, the London correspondent
to the Morning Post, who involves, to use his own phrase, the whole hemisphere of fashion in
his mystifications and reports: informs the readers of that paper how many rays of sunshine
have exhilarated the Brightonians during the week, furnishes a correct journal of fogs, rains,
storms, shipwrecks, and hazy mists; and, above all, announces the arrivals and departures,
mixing up royal and noble fashionables and kitchen stuff' in the same beautiful obscurity of
diction. Peter was formerly a friseur; but has long since quitted the shaving and cutting profession
for the more profitable calling of collector of on dits and puffs extraordinaire. The swaggering
broad-shouldered blade who follows near him, with a frontispiece like the red lion, is the
well-known radical, Jack S----h, now agent to the French consul for this place, and the unsuccessful
candidate for the independent borough of Shoreham." "A complete eccentric, by all my hopes
of pleasure! Crony, who are those two dashing divinities, who come tripping along so lively
yonder?" "Daughters of ~315~~pleasure," replied the cynic; "a pair of justly celebrated paphians,
west-end comets, who have come here, no doubt, with the double view of profit and amusement.
The plump looking dame on the right, is Aug--ta C--ri, (otherwise lady H----e); so called after
the P--n--ss A----a, her godmamma. Her father, old Ab--t, one of Q----n C----te's original
German pages, brought up a large family in respectability, under the fostering protection of
his royal mistress. Aug----ta, at the early age of fifteen, eloped from St. James's, on a matrimonial
speculation with a young musician, Mr. An----y C----, (himself a boy of 18)! From such a union
what could be expected? a mother at 16, and a neglected dishonoured wife, before she had counted
many years of womanhood. If she fell an unresisting victim to the seduction which her youth,
beauty, and musical talents attracted, 'her stars were more to blame than she.' Let it be recorded,
however, that her conduct as wife and mother was free from reproach, until a depraved, unnatural
man (who by the way has since fled the country) set her the example of licentiousness.

"Amongst her earliest admirers, was the wealthy citizen, Mr. S---- M----, a bon vivant, a five-bottle
man (who has, not unaptly, been since nominated a representative in p----l for one of the cinque
ports).

To this witty man's generous care she is indebted for an annuity, which, with common prudence,
ought to secure her from want during her own life. On her departure from this lover, which
proceeded entirely from her own caprice and restless extravagance, the vain Aug--ta launched
at once into all the dangerous pleasures of a cyprian life. The court, the city, and the 'change,
paid homage to her charms. One high in the r----l h----h----id wore her chains for many months;
and it was probably more in the spirit of revenge for open neglect, than admiration of such
a ~316~~faded beau, that lady G---- B---- admitted the E---- of B----e to usurp the husband's
place and privilege.

It is extraordinary that the circumstance just mentioned, which was notorious, was not brought
forward in mitigation of the damages for the loss of conjugal joys; and which a jury of citizens,
with a tender feeling for their own honour, valued at ten thousand pounds. My lord G---- B----
pocketed the injury and the ten thousand,; and his noble substitute has since made the 'amende
honorable' to public morals, by uniting his destinies with an amiable woman, the daughter of
a doctor of music, and a beauty of the sister country, who does honour to the rank to which
she has been so unexpectedly elevated.

"Mrs. C----i had no acquaintance of her own sex in the world of gaiety but one; the beautiful,
interesting, Mademoiselle St. M--g--te, then (1812 and 1813) in the zenith of her charms. The
gentle Ad--l--de, whose sylph-like form, graceful movements, and highly polished manner, delighted
all who knew her, formed a strange and striking contrast to the short, fat, bustling, salacious
Aug--ta, whose boisterous bon-mots, and horse-laughical bursts, astonished rather than charmed.
Both, however, found abundance of admirers to their several tastes. It was early in the spring
of 1814 that the subject of this article had the good or evil fortune to attract the eye of
a noble lord of some notoriety, who pounced on his plump prey with more of the amorous assurance
of the bird of Jove than the cautious hoverings of the wary H--ke. Love like his admitted of
no delay. Preliminaries were soon arranged, under the auspices of that experienced matron,
Madame D'E--v--e, whose address, in this delicate negotiation, extorted from his lordship's
generosity, besides a cheque on H----d and

G--bbs for a cool hundred, the payment of 'brother Martin's' old score, of long standing, for
bed and board at Madame's house of business, little St. Martin's-~317~~street. The public have
been amused with the ridiculous story of the mock marriage; but whatever were his faults or
follies, and he is since called to his account, his l--ds--p stands guiltless of this. 'Tis
true, her 'ladyship' asserted, nay, we believe, swore as much; but she is known to possess
such boundless imaginative faculties, that her nearest and dearest friends have never yet been
able to detect her in the weakness of uttering a palpable truth. The assumption of the name
and title arose out of a circumstance so strange, so ridiculous, and so unsavoury, that, with
all our 'gusto' for fun, we must omit it: suffice it to say, that it originated in--what?--gentle
reader--in a dose of physic!!! For further particulars, apply to Mrs. C----l, of the C--s--le
S--t--h--ll. After this strange event, which imparted to her ladyship all the honours of the
coronet, Mrs. C----i was to be seen in the park, from day to day; the envy of every less fortunate
Dolly, and the horror of the few friends which folly left her lordly dupe. In this state of
doubtful felicity her ladyship rolled on (for she almost lived in her carriage) for three years;
when, alas! by some cruel caprice of love, or some detected intrigue, or from the holy scruples
of his lordship's Reverend adviser, Padre Ambrosio, this connexion was suddenly dissolved at
Paris; when Mrs. C----, no longer acknowledged as my lady, was at an hour's notice packed off
in the Dilly for Dover, and her jewels, in half the time, packed up in their casket and despatched
to Lafitte's, in order to raise the ways and means for the peer and his ghostly confessor!

"Her ladyship's next attempt at notoriety was her grand masked ball at the Argyll rooms in
1818; an entertainment which, for elegant display and superior arrangement, did great credit
to her taste, or to that of her broad-shouldered Milesian friend, to whom it is said the management
of the whole was committed. The expense of this act of folly has been variously ~318~~estimated;
and the honour of defraying it gratuitously allotted to an illustrious commander, whose former
weakness and culpability has been amply redeemed by years of truly r----l benevolence and public
service. We can state, however, that neither the purse or person of the royal D----contributed
to the éclat of the fête. An amorous Hebrew city clerk, who had long 'looked and loved' at
humble distance, taking advantage of his uncle's absence on the continent in a diamond hunting
speculation, having left the immediate jewel of His soul, his cash, at home, the enamoured
youth seized the very 'nick o' time,' furnished half the funds for the night, for half a morning's
conversation in Upper Y--street: her ladyship's indefatigable industry furnished the other
moiety in a couple of days. A Mr. Z--ch--y contributed fifty, which coming to the ears of his
sandy-haired lassie, his own paid forfeit of his folly, to their almost total abstraction from
the thick head to which they project with asinine pride. Since this splash in the whirlpool
of fashionable folly, her 'ladyship,' for she clings to the rank with all the tenacity of a
fencible field officer, has lived in comparative retirement near E--dg--e R--d, nursing a bantling
of the new era, and singing 'John Anderson my Joe' to her now 'gude man;' only occasionally
relapsing into former gaieties by a sly trip to Box Hill or Virginia Water with the grandson
of a barber, a flush but gawky boy, who, forgetting that it is to the talents and judicial
virtues of his honoured sire he owes his elevation, rejects that proud and wholesome example;
and, by his arrogance and vanity, excites pity for the father and contempt for the son. Her
ladyship, who by her own confession has been 'just nine and twenty' for the last ten years,
may still boast of her conquests. Her amour with the yellow dwarf of G--vs--r P--e is too good
to be lost. They are followed by one, who, time was, would have chased them round the Steyne
~319~~and into cover with all the spirit of a true sportsman; but his days of revelry are past,--that
is the celebrated roué, C---- L----, a 'trifle light as air,' yet in nature's spite a very
ultra in the pursuit of gallantry. To record the number of frail fair ones to whose charms
he owned ephemeral homage would fill a volume. The wantons wife whose vices sunk her from the
drawing-room to the lobby; the{4} kitchen wench, whose pretty face and lewd ambition raised
her to it; the romance bewildered{5} Miss, and the rude unlettered {6} villager, the hardened
drunken profligate, and the timid half-ruined victim (the almost infant Jenny!) have all in
turn tasted his bounty and his wine, have each been honoured with a page in his trifles: of
his caresses he wisely was more chary. Which of the frail sisterhood has not had a ride in
G---- L----'s worn out in the service 1 and which in its day might be said to roll mechanically
from C----L----to C----s-s--t, with almost instinctive precision. But his days of poesy and
nights of folly are now past!

Honest C----has taken the hint from nature, and retired, at once, from the republics of Venus
and of letters. A kind, a generous, and a susceptible heart like his must long ere this have
found, in the arms of an amiable wife, those unfading and honourable joys which, reflection
must convince him, were not to be extracted from those foul and polluted sources from whence
he sought and drew a short-lived pleasure."

You know Crony's affection for a good dinner, and will not therefore be surprised that I had
the honour of his company this day; but i'faith he deserved his reward for the cheerfulness
and amusement with which he contrived to kill time.

     3 Lady B----e.

     4 Mrs. H----y.

     5 Louisa V----e.

     6 Mrs. S--d--s.

     7 Mrs. S--mm--ns.

~320~~In the evening it was proposed to visit the libraries; but as these places of public
resort are not always eligible for the appearance of a star, Crony and myself were despatched
first to reconnoitre and report to the Countess our opinions of the assembled group. The association
of society has perhaps undergone a greater change in England within the last thirty years than
any other of our peculiar characteristics; at least, I should guess so from Crony's descriptions
of the persons who formerly honoured the libraries with their presence; but whose names (if
they now condescend to subscribe) are entered in a separate book, that they may not be defiled
by appearing in the same column with the plebeian host of the three nations who form the united
family of Great Britain. "Ay, sir," said Crony, with a sigh that bespoke the bitterness of
reflection, "I remember when this spot (Luccombe's library) was the resort of all the beauty
and brilliancy that once illumined the hemisphere of Calton palace,--the satellites of the
heir apparent, the brave, the witty, and the gay,--the soul-inspiring, mirthful band, whose
talents gave a splendid lustre to the orb of royalty, far surpassing the most costly jewel
in his princely coronet. But they are gone, struck to the earth by the desolating hand of the
avenger Death, and have left no traces of their genius upon the minds of their successors."

Of the motley assemblage which now surrounds us it would be difficult to attempt a picture.
The pencil of a Cruikshank or a Rowlandson might indeed convey some idea; but all weaker hands
would find the subject overpowering. A mob of manufacturers, melting hot, elbowing one another
into ill-humour, by their anxiety to teach their offspring the fashionable vice of gaming;
giving the pretty innocents a taste for loo, which generally ends in loo-sening what little
purity of principle the prejudice of education has left upon their intellect. In our more fashionable
hells, wine and choice liqueurs are the stimulants ~321~~to vice; here, the seduction consists
in the strumming of an ill-toned piano, to the squeaking of some poor discordant whom poverty
compels to public exposure; and who, generally being of the softer sex, pity protects from
the severity of critical remark. I need not say our report to the Dalmaines was unfavourable;
and the divine little countess, frustrated in her intentions of honouring the libraries with
her presence, determined upon promenading up the West Cliff, attended by old Crony and myself.
The bright-eyed goddess of the night emitted a ray of more than usual brilliancy, and o'er
the blue waters of the deep spread forth a silvery and refulgent lustre, that lent a charm
of magical inspiration to the rippling waves. For what of nature's mighty works can more delight,
than

          '----Circling ocean, when the swell
          By zephyrs borne from off the main,
          Heaves to the breeze, and sinks again?'

The deep murmuring of the hollow surge as it rolls over the pebble beach, the fresh current
of saline air that braces and invigorates, and the uninterrupted view of the watery expanse,
are attractions of delight and contemplation which are nowhere to be enjoyed in greater perfection
than at Brighton. The serenity of the evening induced us to pass the barrier of the chain-pier,
and bend our steps towards the projecting extremity of that ingenious structure. An old Welsh
harper was touching his instrument with more than usual skill for an itinerant professor, while
the plaintive notes of the air he tuned accorded with the solemnity of the surrounding scene.
"I could pass an evening here," said the countess, in a somewhat contemplative mood, "in the
society of kindred spirits, with more delightful gratification than among the giddy throng
who meet at Almack's." Crony bowed to the ground, overpowered by the ~322~~compliment; while
your humble servant, less obsequious, but equally conscious of the flattering honour, advanced
my left foot sideways, drew up my right longitudinally, and touched my beaver with a congée,
that convinced me I had not forgotten the early instructions of our old Eton posture-master,
the all-accomplished Signor Angelo. "A wery hextonishing vurk, this here pier," said a fat,
little squab of a citizen, sideling up to Crony like a full-grown porpoise; "wery hexpensive,
and wery huseless, I thinks" continued the intruder. Crony reared his crest in silent indignation,
while his visage betokened an approaching storm; but a significant look from the countess gave
him the hint that some amusement might be derived from the animal; who, without understanding
the contempt he excited, proceeded--"Vun of the new bubble companies' specks, I supposes, vat
old daddy Boreas vill blow avay sum night in a hurrikin. It puts me wery much in mind of a
two bottle man." "Why so?" said Crony. "Bekause it's only half seas hover." This little civic
jeu d'esprit made his peace with us by producing a hearty laugh, in which he did not fail to
join in unison. "But are you aware of the usefulness and national importance of the projector's
plans? said Crony. "Not I," responded the citizen: "I hates all projections of breweries, bridges,
buildings, and boring companies, from the Golden-lane speck to the Vaterloo; from thence up
to the new street, and down to the tunnel under the Thames, vich my banker, Sir William Curtis,
says, is the greatest bore in London." "But humanity, sir," said Crony, "has, I hope, some
influence with you; and this undertaking is intended not only for the healthful pleasure of
the Brighton visitors, but for the convenience of vessels in distress, and the landing of passengers
in bad weather." "Ay, there it is,--that's hexactly vat I thought; to help our rich people
more easily out of ~323~~the country, and bring a set of poor half-starved foreigners in: vy,
I'm told it's to be carried right across the channel in time, and then the few good ones ve
have left vill be marching off to the enemy." This conceit amused the countess exceedingly,
and was followed by many other equally strange expressions and conjectures; among which, Crony
contrived to persuade him that great amusement was to be derived in bobbing for mackerel and
turbot with the line: a pleasure combining so much of profit in expectancy that the old citizen
was, at last, induced to admit the utility of the chain-pier.

Retracing our steps towards the Steyne, we had one more good laugh at our companion's credulity,
who expressed great anxiety to know what the huge wheel was intended for, which is at the corner
by the barrier, and throws up water for the use of the town; but which, Crony very promptly
assured him, was the grand action of the improved roasting apparatus at the York hotel. We
now bade farewell to our amusing companion, and proceeded to view the new plunging bath at
the bottom of East-street, built in the form of an amphitheatre, and surrounded by dressing-rooms,
with a fountain in the centre, from which a continued supply of salt-water is obtained. The
advantages may be great in bad weather; but to my mind there is nothing like the open sea,
particularly as confined water is always additionally cold. On our arrival at home, a parcel
from London brought the enclosed from Tom Echo, upon whom the sentence of rustication has,
I fear, been productive of fresh follies.

Dear Heartily,

Having cut college for a bolt to the village,{8} I expected to have found you in the bay of
condolence,{9} but hear you left your moorings lately

     8 London, so called at Oxford.

     9 The consolation afforded by friends when plucked or
     rusticated.

~324~~to waste the ready among the sharks at Brighton. Though not quite at point nonplus, I
am very near the united kingdoms of Sans Souci and Sans Sixsous,{10} and shall bring to, and
wait for company, in the province of Bacchus. I have only just quitted Æager Haven, and been
very near the Wall{11}; have sustained another dreadful fire from Convocation Castle,{12} which
had nigh shattered my fore-lights, and was very near being blown up in attempting to pass the
Long Hope.{13} If you wish to save an old Etonian from east jeopardy,{14} set sail directly,
and tow me out of the river Tick into the region of rejoicing; then will we get bosky together,
sing old songs, tell merry tales, and spree and sport on the states of Independency.

Yours truly,

The Oxford rustic,

London.

TOM ECHO.

P. S. I should not have cut so suddenly, but joined Bob Transit and Eglantine in giving two
of the old big wigs a flying leap t'other evening, as they left Christ Church Hall, in return
for rusticating me:--to escape suspicion, broke away by the mail. I know your affection for
a good joke, so induced Bob to book it, and let me have the sketch, which I here enclose.

     10  Riddance of cares, and, ultimately, of sixpences.

     11  The depot of invalids; Dr. Wall being a celebrated
     surgeon, whose skill is proverbial in the cure of the
     Headington or Bagley fever. For a view of poor Tom during
     his suffering--(see plate by Bob Transit.)

     12  The House of Convocation in Oxford, when the twenty-five
     heads of Colleges and the masters meet to transact and
     investigate university affairs.

     13  The symbol of long expectation in studying for a degree.

     14  Terrors of anticipation. The remaining phrases have all
     been explained in an earlier part of the Work.

~325~~

Mad as the D'Almaine's must think me for obeying such a summons, I have just bade them adieu,
and am off to-morrow, by the earliest coach, for London. The only place I have omitted to notice,
in my sketches of Brighton, is the Club House on the Steyne Parade, where a few old rooks congregate,
to keep a sharp look-out for an unsuspecting green one, or a wealthy pigeon, who, if once netted,
seldom succeeds in quitting the trap without being plucked of a few of his feathers. The greatest
improvement to a place barren of foliage and the agreeable retirement of overshadowed walks,
is the Royal Gardens, on the level at the extremity of the town, in a line with the Steyne
enclosures as you enter from the London road. The taste, variety, and accommodation displayed
in this elegant place of amusement, renders it certainly the most attractive of public gardens,
while the arrangements are calculated to gratify all ~326~~classes of society without the danger
of too crowded an assemblage. Let us see you when term ends; and in the interim expect a long
account of sprees and sports in the village.

Horatio Heartly.

Of all the scenes where rich and varied character is to be found in the metropolis and its
environs, none can exceed that emporium for sharps and flats, famed Tattersall's, whether for
buying a good horse, betting a round sum, or, in the sporting phrase, learning how to make
the best of every thing. "Shall we take a tooddle up to Hyde-park corner?" said Echo; "this
is the settling day for all bets made upon the great Doncaster St. Léger, when the swells book
up, and the knowing ones draw their bussel:--Black Monday, as Sir John Lade terms it, when
the event has not come off right." "A noble opportunity," replied Transit, "for a picture of
turf curiosities. Come, Heartly, throw philosophy aside, and let us set forth for a day's enjoyment,
and then to finish with a night of frolic. An occasional spree is as necessary to the relaxation
of the mind, as exercise is to ~328~~ensure health. The true secret to make life pleasant,
and study profitable, is to be able to throw off our cares as we do our morning gowns, and,
when we sally forth to the world, derive fresh spirit, vigour, and information from cheerful
companions, good air, and new objects. High 'Change among the heroes of the turf presents ample
food for the humorist; while the strange contrast of character and countenance affords the
man of, feeling and discernment subject for amusement and future contemplation." It was in
the midst of one of the most numerous meetings ever remembered at Tattersall's, when Barefoot
won the race, contrary to the general expectation of the knowing ones, that we made our entré.
With Echo every sporting character was better known than his college tutor, and not a few kept
an eye upon the boy, with hopes, no doubt, of hereafter benefiting by his inexperience, when,
having got the whip-hand of his juvenile restrictions, he starts forth to the world a man of
fashion and consequence, with an unencumbered property of fifteen thousand per annum, besides
expectancies. "Here's a game of chess for you, Transit," said Echo; "why, every move upon the
board is a character, and not one but what is worth booking. Observe the arch slyness of the
jockey yonder, ear-wigging his patron, a young blood of the fancy, into a good thing; particularising
all the capabilities and qualities of the different horses named, and making the event (in
his own estimation) as sure as the Bank of England:--how finely contrasted with the easy indifference
of the dignified sportsman near him, who leaves all to chance, spite of the significant nods
and winks from a regular artiste near him, who never suffers him to make a bet out of the ring,
if it is possible to prevent him, by throwing in a little suspicion, in order that he and his
friends may have the plucking of their victim exclusively. The portly-looking man in the left-hand
corner (see ~329~~plate) is Mr. Tanfield, one of the greatest betting men on the turf; who
can lose and pay twenty thousand without moving a muscle, and pocket the like sum without indulging
in a smile; always steady as old Time, and never giving away a chance, but carefully keeping
his eye upon Cocker (i. e. his book), to see how the odds stand, and working away by that system
which is well understood under the term management. In front of him is the sporting Earl of
Sefton, and that highly-esteemed son of Nimrod, Colonel Hilton Joliffe,--men of the strictest
probity, and hence often appointed referees on matters in dispute.

Lawyer L----, and little Wise-man, are settling their differences with bluff Bland, who carries
all his bets in his memory till he reaches home, because a book upon the spot would be useless.
In the right-hand corner, just in front of old General B----n, is John Gully, once the pugilist,
but now a man of considerable property, which has been principally acquired by his knowledge
of calculation, and strict attention to honourable conduct: there are few men on the turf more
respected, and very few among those who keep betting books whose conduct will command the same
approbation. The old beau in the corner is Sir Lumley S----n, who, without the means to bet
much, still loves to linger near the scene of former extravagance." "A good disciple of Lavater,"
said Transit, "might tell the good or ill fortunes of those around him, by a slight observance
of their countenances. See that merry-looking, ruby-faced fellow just leaving the door of the
subscription-room: can any body doubt that he has come off all right?--or who would dispute
that yon pallid-cheeked gentleman, with a long face and quivering lip, betrays, by the agitation
of his nerves, the extent of his sufferings? The peer with a solemn visage tears out his last
check, turns upon his heel, whistles a tune, and sets against the gross amount of his losses
another mortgage of ~330~~the family acres, or a post obit upon some expectancy: the regular
sporting man, the out and outer, turns to his book--

          'For there he finds, no matter who has won,{1}
          Whichever animal, or mare, or colt;
          Nay, though each horse that started for't should bolt,
          Or all at once fall lame, or die, or stray,
          He yet must pocket hundreds by the day.'"

Two or three amusing scenes took place among those who wanted, and those who had nothing to
give, but yet were too honourable to levant: many exhibited outward and visible signs of inward
grief. A man of metal dropped his last sovereign with a sigh, but chafed a little about false
reports of chaunting up a losing horse, doing the thing neatly, keeping the secret, and other
such like delicate innuendoes, which among sporting men pass current, provided the losers pay
promptly. Several, who had gone beyond their depth, were recommended to the consideration of
the humane, in hopes that time might yet bring them about. We had now passed more than two
hours among the motley group, when Tom, having exchanged the time o'day with most of his sporting
friends, proposed an adjournment to Fishmongers' Hall, or, as he prefaced it, with a visit
to the New Club in St. James's-street; to which resort of Greeks and gudgeons we immediately
proceeded.

We had just turned the corner of St. James's-street, and were preparing to ascend the steps
which lead to the New Club, as Crockford's establishment is termed, when old Crony accosted me.

     1 To all but betting men, this must appear impossible; but
     management is every thing; and with a knowledge of the
     secret, according to turf logic, it is one hundred to one
     against calculation, and, by turf mathematics, five hundred
     to one against any event coming right upon the square. In
     the sporting phrase, 'turf men never back any thing to win;'
     they have no favourites, unless there is a X; and their
     common practice is to accommodate all, by taking the odds,
     till betting is reduced to a certainty.

~331~~He had it seems come off by the Brighton ten o'clock coach, and was now, "according to
his usual custom i' the afternoon," on the look-out for an invite to a good dinner and a bottle.
As I knew he would prove an agreeable, if not a very useful companion in our present enterprise,
I did not hesitate to present him to Echo and Transit, who, upon my very flattering introduction,
received him graciously; although Bob hinted he was rather too old for a play-fellow, and Echo
whispered me to keep a sharp lookout, as he strongly suspected he was a staff officer of the
new Greek corps of Sappers and Miners. In London you can neither rob nor be robbed genteelly
without a formal introduction: how Echo had contrived it I know not, but we were very politely
ushered into the grand club-room, a splendid apartment of considerable extent, with a bow-window
in front, exactly facing White's.

To speak correctly of the elegance and taste displayed in the decorations and furniture, not
omitting the costly sideboard of richly-chased plate, I can only say it rivalled any thing
I had ever before witnessed, and was calculated to impress the young mind with the most extravagant
ideas of the wealth and magnificence of the members or committee. The Honourable Mr. B----,
one of the brothers of the Earl of R----, was the procureur to whom, I found, we were indebted,
for the present honour--a gay man, of some fashionable notoriety, whose fortune is said to
have suffered severely by his attachment to the orthodox orgies at the once celebrated Gothic
Hall, when Parson John Ambrose used to officiate as the presiding minister. "Here he is a member
of the committee," said Crony, "and, with his brother and the old Lord F----, the Marquis H----,
Colonel C----, and the Earl of G----, forms the secret directory of the New Club, which is
considered almost as good a thing as a Mexican mine; for, if report speaks truly, the amount
~332~~of the profits in the last season exceeded one hundred thousand pounds, after payment
of expenses." A sudden crash in the street at this moment drew the attention of all to the
window, where an accident presented a very ominous warning to those within (see plate). "A
regular break down," said Echo. "Floored" said Transit, "but not much the matter." "I beg your
pardon, sir," said a wry-mouthed portly-looking gentleman, who stood next to Bob; "it is a
very awkward circumstance to have occurred just here: I'll bet ten to one it spoils all the
play to-night; and if any of those newspaper fellows get to hear of it, Fishmongers' Hall and
its members will figure in print again to-morrow;" and with that he bustled off to the street
to assist in re-producing a move with all possible celerity. "Who the deuce was the queer-looking
cawker?" we all at once inquired of Crony. "What, gentlemen! not know the director-general,
the accomplished commander-in-chief, the thrice-renowned Cocker Crockford? (so named from his
admirable tact at calculation): why, I thought every one who had witnessed a horse-race, or
a boxing-match, or betted a guinea at Tattersall's, must have known the director, who has been
a notorious character among the sporting circles for the last thirty years: and, if truth be
told, is not the worst of a bad lot. About five-and-twenty years since I remember him," said
Crony, "keeping a snug little fishmonger's shop, at the corner of Essex-street, in the Strand,
where I have often betted a guinea with him on a trotting match, for he was then fond of the
thing, and attended the races and fights in company with old Jerry Cloves, the lighterman,
who is now as well breeched as himself. It is a very extraordinary fact," continued Crony,
"and one which certainly excites suspicion, that almost all those who have made large fortunes
by the turf or play are men of obscure origin, who, but a few years since, were not worth a
guinea, ~333~~while those by whom they have risen are now reduced to beggary." How many representatives
of noble houses, and splendid patrimonies, handed down with increasing care from generation,
to generation, have been ruined and dissipated by this pernicious vice! --the gay and inexperienced
nipped in the very bud of life, and plunged into irretrievable misery--while the high-spirited
and the noble-minded victims to false honour, too often seek a refuge from despair in the grave
of the suicide! Such were the reflections that oppressed my mind while contemplating the scene
before me: I was, however, roused from my reverie by Crony's continuation of the director's
history. "He bears the character of an honourable man," said our Mentor, "among the play world,
and has the credit of being scrupulously particular in all matters of play and pay. For the
fashion of his manners, they might be much improved, certainly; but for generosity and a kind
action, there are very few among the Greeks who excel the old fishmonger. He was formerly associated
with T--l-r and others in the French Hazard Bank, at Watier's Club House, corner of Bolton-row;
but T--l-r, having purchased the house without the knowledge of his partners, wanted so many
exclusive advantages for himself, that the director withdrew, just in time to save himself
from the obloquy of an affair which occurred shortly afterwards, in which certain persons were
charged with using false dice. The complainant, a young sprig of fashion, seized the unhallowed
bones, and bore them off in triumph to a stick shop in the neighbourhood; where, for some time
afterwards, they were exhibited to the gaze of many a fashionable dupe. The circumstance produced
more than one good effect--it prevented a return of any disposition to play on the part of
the detector, and closed the house for ever since." After the dinner, which was served up in
a princely style, we were invited by the Honourable to ~334~~view the upper apartment, called
the Grand Saloon, a true picture of which accompanies this, from the pencil of my friend, Bob
Transit, and into which he has contrived to introduce the affair of the cogged dice (see plate),
a licence always allowable to poets and painters in the union of time and place. The characters
here will speak for themselves.

They are all sketches from the life, and as like the originals as the reflection of their persons
would be in a looking-glass. By the frequenters of such places they will be immediately recognised;
while to the uninitiated the family cognomen is of little consequence, and is omitted, as it
might give pain to worthy bosoms who are not yet irrecoverably lost. By the strict rules of
Fishmongers' Hall, the members of Brookes', White's, Boodle's, the Cocoa Tree, Alfred and Travellers'
clubs only are admissible; but this restriction is not always enforced, particularly where
there is a chance of a good bite. The principal game played here is French Hazard, the director
and friends supplying the bank, the premium for which, with what the box-money produces, forms
no inconsiderable source of profit. It is ridiculous to suppose any unfair practices are ever
resorted to in the general game; in a mixed company they would be easily detected, and must
end in the ruin of the house: but the chances of the game, calculation, and superior play,
give proficients every advantage, and should teach the inexperienced caution. "It is heart-rending,"
said Crony, whom I had smuggled into one corner of the room, for the purpose of enjoying his
remarks free from observation, "to observe the progress of the unfortunate votaries to this
destructive vice, as they gradually proceed through the various stages of its seductive influence.
The young and thoughtless are delighted with the fascination of the scene: to the more profligate
sensualist it affords an opportunity of enjoying the choicest liqueurs, coffee, and wines,
~335~~free of expense; and, although he may have no money to lose himself, he can do the house
a good turn, by introducing some pigeon who has just come out; and he is therefore always a
welcome visitor. At Crockford's, all games where the aid of mechanism would be necessary are
cautiously avoided, not from any moral dislike to Rouge et Noir or Roulette, but from the apprehension
of an occasional visit from the police, and the danger attending the discovery of such apparatus,
which, from its bulk, cannot easily be concealed. In the space of an hour Echo had lost all
the money he possessed, and had given his I O U for a very considerable sum; although frequently
urged to desist by Transit, who, with all his love of life and frolic, is yet a decided enemy
to gaming. One excess generally leads to another. From Tattersall's we had passed to Crockford's;
and on quitting the latter it was proposed we should visit Tom Belcher's, the Castle Tavern,
Holborn, particularly as on this night there was a weekly musical muster of the fancy, yclept
the Daffy Club; a scene rich in promise for the pencil of our friend Bob, of sporting information
to Echo, and full of characteristic subject for the observation of the English Spy--of that
eccentric being, of whom, I hope, I may continue to sing 'esto perpétua!'

          Life is, with him, a golden dream,
          A milky way, where all's serene.
          Wit's treasured stores his humour wait,--
          His volume, man in every state,--
          From grave to gay, from rich to poor,
          From gilded dome to rustic door.
          Through all degrees life's varied page,
          He shows the manners of the age.

The Daffy Club presents to the eye of a calm observer a fund of entertainment; to the merry
mad-wag who is fond of life, blowing his steamer, and drinking blue ruin, until all is blue
before him, a ~336~~source of infinite amusement; the convivial finds his antidote to the rubs
and jeers of this world in a rum chaunt; while the out and outer may here open his mag-azine
of tooth-powder, cause a grand explosion, and never fear to meet a broadside in return. The
knowing cove finds his account in looking out for the green ones, and the greens find their
head sometimes a little heavier, and their pockets lighter, by an accidental rencontre with
the fancy. To see the place in perfection, a stranger should choose the night previous to some
important mill, when our host of the Castle plays second, and all the lads are mustered to
stump up their blunt, or to catch the important whisper where the scene of action is likely
to be (for there is always due caution used in the disclosure), to take a peep at the pugilists
present, and trot off as well satisfied as if he had partaken of a splendid banquet with the
Great Mogul.

The long room is neatly fitted up, and lighted with gas; and the numerous sporting subjects,
elegantly framed and glazed, have rather an imposing effect upon the entrance of the visitor,
and among which may be recognised animated likenesses of the late renowned Jem Belcher, and
his daring competitor (that inordinate glutton) Burke. The fine whole-length portrait of Mr.
Jackson stands between those of the Champion and Tom Belcher; the father of the present race
of boxers, old Joe Ward; the Jew phenomenon, Dutch Sam; Bob Gregson, in water colours, by the
late John Emery, of Covent Garden theatre; the scientific contest between Humphreys and Mendoza;
also the battle between Crib and Jem Belcher; a finely executed portrait of the late tremendous
Molineux; portraits of Gulley, Randall, Harmer, Turner, Painter, Tom Owen, and Scroggins, with
a variety of other subjects connected with the turf, chase, &c, including a good likeness of
the dog Trusty, the champion of the canine race in fifty battles, and the favourite ~337~~animal
of Jem Belcher, the gift of Lord Camelford--the whole forming a characteristic trait of the
sporting world. The long table, or the ring, as it is facetiously termed, is where the old
slanders generally perch themselves to receive the visits of the swells, and give each other
the office relative to passing events: and what set of men are better able to speak of society
in all its various ramifications, from the cabinet-counsellor to the cosey costermonger? Jemmy
Soares, the president, must be considered a downy one; having served five apprenticeships to
the office of sheriffs representative, and is as good a fellow in his way as ever tapped a
shy one upon the shoulder-joint, or let fly a ca sa at your goods and chattels. Lucky Bob is
a fellow of another stamp, "a nation good vice" as ever was attached to the house of Brunswick.
Then comes our host, a civil, well-behaved man, without any of the exterior appearance of the
ruffian, or perhaps I should say of his profession, and with all the good-natured qualifications
for a peaceable citizen, and an obliging, merry landlord: next to him you will perceive the
immortal typo, the all-accomplished Pierce Egan; an eccentric in his way, both in manner and
person, but not deficient in that peculiar species of wit which fits him for the high office
of historian of the ring. The ironical praise of Blackwood he has the good sense to turn to
a right account, laughs at their satire, and pretends to believe it is all meant in right-down
earnest approbation of his extraordinary merits. For a long while after his great instructor's
neglect of his friends, Pierce kept undisturbed possession of the throne; but recently competitors
have shown themselves in the field well found in all particulars, and carrying such witty and
weighty ammunition wherewithal, that they more than threaten "to push the hero from his stool."{1}
Tom 1 The editors of the Annals of Sporting, and Bell's Life in London, are both fellows of
infinite wit.

~338~~Spring, who is fond of cocking as well as fighting, is seen with his bag in the right-hand
corner, chaffing with the Duck-lane doss man; while Lawyer L----e, a true sportsman, whether
for the turf or chase, is betting the odds with brother Adey, Greek against Greek. Behind them
are seen the heroes Scroggins and Turner; and at the opposite end of the table, a Wake-ful
one, but a grosser man than either, and something of the levanter: the bald-headed stag on
his right goes by the quaint cognomen of the Japan oracle, from the retentive memory he possesses
on all sporting and pugilistic events. The old waiter is a picture every frequenter will recognise,
and the smoking a dozer no unusual bit of a spree. Here, my dear Bernard, you have before you
a true portrait of the celebrated Daffy{2} Club, done from the life by our

     2 The great lexicographer of the fancy gives the following
     definition of the word Daffy. The phrase was coined at
     the mint of the Fancy, and has since passed current without
     ever being overhauled as queer. The Colossus of
     Literature, after all his nous and acute researches to
     explain the synonyms of the English language, does not
     appear to have been down to the interpretation of Daffy; nor
     indeed does Bailey or Sheridan seem at all fly to it; and
     even slang Grose has no touch of its extensive
     signification. The squeamish Fair One who takes it on the
     sly, merely to cure the vapours, politely names it to her
     friends as White Wine. The Swell chaffs it as Blue Ruin,
     to elevate his notions. The Laundress loves dearly a drain
     of Ould Tom, from its strength to comfort her inside. The
     drag Fiddler can toss off a quartern of Max without making a
     wry mug. The Costermonger illumines his ideas with a
     flash of lightning.' The hoarse Cyprian owes her existence
     to copious draughts of Jacky. The Link-boy and Mud Larks,
     in joining their browns together, are for some Stark Naked.
     And the Out and Outers, from the addition of bitters to it,
     in order to sharpen up a dissipated and damaged Victualling
     Office, cannot take any thing but Fuller's Earth. Much it
     should seem, therefore, depends upon a name; and as a soft
     sound is at all times pleasing to the listener--to have
     denominated this Sporting Society the Gin Club would not
     only have proved barbarous to the ear, but the vulgarity of
     the chant might have deprived it of many of its elegant
     friends. It is a subject, however, which it must be
     admitted has a good deal of Taste belonging to it--and as a
     Sporting Man would be nothing if he was not flash, the Daffy
     Club meet under the above title.

~339~~mutual friend, Bob Transit (see plate), in closing my account of which I have only to
say, we were not disappointed in our search after variety, and came away high in spirits, and
perfectly satisfied with the good-humour and social intercourse of our eccentric associates.

The sad, the sober, and the sentimental were all gone to roost, before our merry trio sallied
forth from the Castle Tavern, ripe for any sport or spree. Of all the bucks in this buckish
age, your London buck is the only true fellow of spirit; with him life never begins too early,
or finishes too late; how many of the west-end roués ride twenty miles out, in a cold morning,
to meet the hounds, and after a hard day's run mount their hack and ride twenty miles home
to have the pleasure of enjoying their own fire-side, or of relating the hair-breadth perils
and escapes they have encountered, to their less active associates at Long's or Stevens's,
the Cider Cellar, or the Coal-hole! The general introduction of gas throws too clear a light
upon many dark transactions and midnight frolics to allow the repetition of the scenes of former
times: here and there to be sure an odd nook, or a dark cranny, is yet left unenlightened;
but the leading streets of the metropolis are, for the most part, too well illuminated to allow
the spreeish or the sprightly to carry on their jokes in security, or bolt away with safety
when a charley thinks proper to set his child a crying.{3} We had crossed the road, in the
direction of Chancery-lane, expecting to have met with a hackney rattler, but not one was to
be found upon the stand, when Bob espied the broad tilt of a jarvey perched upon his shop-board,
and impelling along, with no little labour of the whip, a pair of anatomies, whose external
appearance showed they

     3 Springing his rattle.

~340~~had benefited very little by the opening of the ports for oats, or the digestive operation
of the new corn-bill. "Hired, old Jarvey?" said Echo, fixing himself in the road before the
fiery charioteer. "No, but tired, young Davey," replied the dragsman. "Take a fare to Covent
Garden?" "Not if I knows it," was the knowing reply; "so stir your stumps, my tight one, or
I shall drive over you." "You had better take us," said Transit. "I tell you I won't; I am
a day man, going home, and I don't take night jobs." "But I tell you, you must," said Echo;
"so round with your drag, and we'll make your last day a long day, and give you the benefit
of resurrection into the bargain." "Why, look ye, my jolly masters, if you're up to a lark
of that 'ere sort, take care you don't get a floorer; I've got a rum customer inside what I'm
giving a lift to for love--only Josh Hudson, the miller; and if he should chance to wake, I
think he'll be for dusting some of your jackets." "What, my friend Josh inside?" vociferated
Echo, "then it's all right: go it, my hearties; mount the box one on each hand, and make him
drive us to the Finish--while I settle the matter with the inside passenger." Josh, who had
all this time been taking forty winks, while on his road to his crony Belcher's, soon recognised
his patron, Echo; and jarvey, finding that all remonstrance was useless, thought it better
to make a "virtue of necessity;" so turning his machine to the right about, he, in due time,
deposited us in the purlieus of Covent Garden. The hoarse note of the drowsy night-guard reverberated
through the long aisle of the now-forsaken piazzas, as the trembling flame of the parish lamp,
flittering in its half-exhausted jet, proclaimed the approach of day; the heavy rumbling of
the gardeners' carts, laden with vegetables for the ensuing market, alone disturbed the quiet
of the adjoining streets. In a dark angle might be seen the houseless wanderer, or the abandoned
profligate, ~341~~gathered up like a lump of rags in a corner, and shivering with the nipping
air. The gloom which surrounded us had, for a moment, chilled the wild exuberance of my companions'
mirth; and it is more than probable we should have suspended our visit to the Finish, at least
for that night, had not the jocund note of some uproarious Bacchanalian assailed our ears with
the well-known college chant of old Walter de Mapes, "Mihi est propositum in tabernâ mori,"
which being given in G major, was re-echoed from one end to the other of the arched piazza:
at a little distance we perceived the jovial singer reeling forwards, or rather working his
way, from right to left, in sinuosities, along, or according to nautical phrase, upon tack
and half tack, bearing up to windward, in habiliments black as a crow, with the exception of
his neckcloth and under vest; but judge our surprise and delight, when, upon nearer approach,
we discovered the bon vivant to be no other than our old friend Crony, who had been sacrificing
to the jolly god with those choice spirits the members of the Beefsteak Club,{4} who meet in
a room built expressly

     4 This Club, which may boast among its members some of the
     most distinguished names of the age, including royalty
     itself, owed its origin to the talents of those celebrated
     artists Richards and Loutherbourg, whose scenic performances
     were in those days often exhibited to a select number of the
     nobility and gentry, patrons of the drama and the arts, in
     the painting-room of the theatre, previous to their being
     displayed to the public. It was on one of those occasions
     that some noblemen surprised the artist cooking his beef-
     steak for luncheon in his painting-room, and kindly
     partaking of the déjeuné à la fourchette, with him,
     suggested and established the Beef-steak Club, which was
     originally, and up to the time of the fire, held in an
     apart-ment over the old Theatre Royal, Covent Garden; but
     since that period the members have been accommodated by Mr.
     Arnold, who built the present room expressly for their use.
     In page 216 of this work, allusion will be found by name to
     some of the brilliant wits who graced this festive board,
     and gave a lustre to the feast. In the old place of
     meeting the identical gridiron on which Richards and
     Loutherbourg operated was to be seen attached to the
     ceiling, emblematical of the origin of the society, which
     may now be considered as the only relic left of that social
     intercourse which formerly existed in so many shapes between
     those who were distinguished for their noble birth and
     wealth, and the poorer, but equally illustrious, of the
     children of Genius. It would be an act of injustice to the
     present race of scenic artists to close this note without
     acknowledging their more than equal merits to their
     predecessors: the Grieves (father and sons), Phillips,
     Marinari, Wilson, Tomkins, and Stanfield, are all names of
     high talent; but the novelty of their art has, from its
     general cultivation, lost much of this peculiar attraction.

~342~~for them over the audience part of the English Opera House. The ruby glow of the old
boy's countenance shone like an omen of the merry humour of his mind. "What, out for a spree,
boys, or just bailed from the watch-house, which is it? the alpha or omega, for they generally
follow one another?" "Then you are in time for the equivoque, Crony," said Echo; "so enlist
him, Transit;" and without more ceremony, Crony was marched off, vi et armis, to the Finish,
a coffee-house in James-street, Covent Garden, where the peep-o'-day boys and family men meet
to conclude the night's debauch (see plate); "Video meliora proboque, Détériora sequoi;" you
will exclaim, and 'tis granted; but

          "Lusus animo debent aliquando dari,
          Ad cogitandum melior ut red eat sibi,"

says Phodrus, and be the poet's apology mine, for I am neither afraid or ashamed to confess
myself an admirer of life in all its variegated lights and shadows, deriving my amusement from
the great source of knowledge, the study of that eccentric volume--man. The new police act
has, in some measure, abated the extent of these nuisances, the low coffee-shops of the metropolis,
which were, for the greater part, little better than a rendezvous for thieves of every description,
depots both for the ~343~~plunder and the plunderer; where, if an unthinking or profligate
victim once entered, he seldom came out without experiencing treatment which operated like
a severe lesson, that would leave its moral upon his mind as long as he continued an inhabitant
of the terrestrial world.

The attempt to describe the party around us baffled even the descriptive powers of old Crony;
some few, indeed, were known to the man of the world as reputed sharpers,--fellows who are
always to be found lingering about houses of such resort, to catch the inexperienced; when,
having sacrificed their victim either by gambling, cheating, or swindling, they divide the
profits with the keeper of the house, without whose assistance they could not hope to arrive
at the necessary information, or be enabled to continue their frauds with impunity; but, thus
protected, they have a ready witness at hand to speak to their character, without the suspicion
of his being a confederate in their villany. Here might be seen the woman of pleasure, lost
to every sense of her sex's shame, consuming the remaining portion of the night by a wasteful
expenditure of her ill-acquired gains upon some abandoned profligate, bearing, indeed, the
outward form of man, but presenting a most degrading spectacle--a wretch so lost to all sense
of honour and manhood as meanly to subsist on the wages of prostitution. One or two characters
I must not omit: observe the fair Cyprian with the ermine tippet, seated on the right of a
well-known billiard sharp, who made his escape from Dublin for having dived a little too deep
into the pockets of his brother emeralders; here he passes for a swell, and has abandoned his
former profession for the more honest union of callings, a pimp and playman, in other words,
a finished Greek. The lady was the chère amie of the unfortunate youth Hayward (designated
as the modern Macheath), who suffered an ignominious death. He was betrayed and sold to the
~344~~officers by this very woman, upon whom he had lavished the earnings of his infamy, when
endeavouring to secrete himself from the searching eye of justice. The unhappy female on the
other side was early in life seduced by the once celebrated Lord B----, by whose title, to
his lasting infamy, she is still known: what she might have been, but for his arts, reflection
too often compels her to acknowledge, when sober and sinking under her load of misery; at other
times she has recourse to liquor to drown her complicated misfortunes; when wild and infuriated,
she more nearly resembles a demon than a woman, spreading forth terror and destruction upon
all around; in this state she is often brought to the police-office, where the humanity of
the magistrates, softened perhaps by a recollection of her wrongs, generally operates to procure
for her some very trifling and lenient sentence.{5}

          5 THE LIFE OF A WOMAN OF THE TOWN.

          Ah! what avails how once appear'd the fair,
          When from gay equipage she falls obscure?

          In vain she moves her livid lips in prayer;
          What man so mean to recollect the poor?

          From place to place, by unfee'd bailiffs drove,
          As fainting fawns from thirsty bloodhounds fly;

          See the sad remnants of unhallow'd love
          In prisons perish, or on dunghills die.

          Pimps and dependents once her beauties praised,
          And on those beauties, vermin-like, they fed;

          From wretchedness the crew her bounty raised,
          When by her spoils enrich'd--deny her bread.

          Through street to street she wends, as want betides,
          Like Shore's sad wife, in winter's dismal hours;

          The bleak winds piercing her unnourish'd sides,
          Her houseless head dripping with drizzy showers.

          Sickly she strolls amidst the miry lane,
          While streaming spouts dash on her unclothed neck;

          By famine pinch'd, pinch'd by disease-bred pain,
          Contrition's portrait, and rash beauty's wreck.

~345~~We had now passed from the first receptacle to an inner and more elegant apartment, where
we could be accommodated with suitable refreshments, wine, spirits, or, in fact, any thing
we pleased to order and were disposed to pay for; a practice at most of these early coffee-houses,
as they are denominated. The company in this room were, as far as appearances went, of rather
a better order; but an event soon occurred which convinced us that their morality was perhaps
more exceptionable than the motley group which filled the outer chamber. A bevy of damsels
were singing, flirting, and drinking, to amuse their companions,--when all at once the doors
were forced open, and in rushed three of the principal officers of Bow-street, the indefatigable
Bishop, the determined Smith, and the resolute Ruthven (see plate), all armed and prepared
for some dreadful encounter: in an instant their followers had possessed themselves of the
doors--flight, therefore, was in vain; and Bob Transit, in attempting it, narrowly escaped
an awkward crack on the crania from old Jack Townshend, who being past active service, was
posted at the entrance with the beak himself, to do garrison duty.

"The traps! the traps!" vociferated some one in the adjoining room; "Douse the glims! stash
it--stash it!" was the general exclamation in ours: but before the party could effect their
purpose, the principals were in safe custody: and the reader (i.e. pocket-book) containing
all the stolen property, preserved from the flames by the wary eye and prompt arm of the indefatigable
Bishop. Before any one was allowed to depart the room, a general muster and search took place,
in which poor Bob Transit felt most awkward, as some voluptuous sketches found in his pocket
called forth

          She dies; sad outcast! heart-broke by remorse;
          Pale, stretch'd against th' inhospitable doors;
          While gathering gossips taunt the flesh less corse,
          And thank their gods that they were never w--res!

~346~~the severe animadversion of his worship, the beak, who lamented that such fine talent
should be thus immorally applied: with this brief lecture, and a caution for the future, we
were allowed to escape; while almost all the rest, male and female, were marched off to an
adjoining watch-house, to abide the public examination and fiat of the morrow. Of all the party,
old Crony was the most sensibly affected by the late rencontre; twenty bottles of soda-water
could not have produced a more important change. His conversation and appearance had, in an
instant, recovered their wonted steadiness; and before we were half across the market, Crony
was moralizing upon the dangers of the scene from which we had so recently and fortunately
escaped. But hearts young and buoyant as ours, when lighted up by the fire of enterprise, and
provoked to action by potent charges of the grape, were not to be dashed by one repulse, or
compelled to beat a retreat at the first brush with a reconnoitring party; we had sallied forth
in pursuit of a spree, and frolic we were determined upon,

          "While misty night, with silent pace,
          Steals gradual o'er the wanton chase."

There is something very romantic in prowling the streets of the metropolis at midnight, in
quest of adventure; at least, so my companions insisted, and I had embarked too deeply in the
night's debauch to moralize upon its consequences. How many a sober-looking face demure when
morning dawns would blush to meet the accusing spirit of the night, dressed out in all the
fantasies of whim and eccentricity with which the rosy god of midnight revelry clothes his
laughter-loving bacchanals--

          "While sleep attendant at her drowsy fane,
          Parent of ease, envelopes all your train!"

The lamentations of old Crony brought to mind the ~347~~complaints of honest Jack Falstaff
against his associates. "There is no truth in villanous man!" said our monitor. "I remember
when a gentleman might have reeled round the environs of Covent Garden, in and out of every
establishment, from the Bedford to Mother Butlers, without having his pleasures broken in upon
by the irruptions of Bow-street mohawks, or his person endangered by any association he chose
to mix with; but we are returning to the times of the Roundheads and the Puritans; cant, vile
hypocritical cant, has bitten the ear of authority, and the great officers of the state are
infected with the Jesuitical mania.

          'Man is a ship that sails with adverse winds,
          And has no haven till he land at death.
          Then, when he thinks his hands fast grasp the bank,
          Conies a rude billow betwixt him and safety,
          And beats him back into the deep again.'"

"I subscribe to none of their fooleries," said I; "for I am of the true orthodox--love my king,
my girl, my friend, and my bottle: a truce with all their raven croakings; they would overload
mortality, and press our shoulders with too great a weight of dismal miseries. But come, my
boys, we who have free souls, let us to the banquet, while yet Sol's fiery charioteer lies
sleeping at his eastern palace in the lap of Thetis--let us chant carols of mirth to old Jove
or bully Mars; and, like chaste votaries, perform our orgies at the shrine of Venus, ere yet
Aurora tears aside the curtain that conceals our revels." In this way we rallied our cameleon-selves,
until we again found shelter from the dews of night in Carpenter's coffee-house; a small, but
well-conducted place, standing at the east end of the market, which opens between two and three
o'clock in the morning, for the accommodation of those who are hourly arriving with waggon
loads of vegetable commodities. Here, over a bottle of mulled port, Crony gave us the history
of ~348~~what Covent Garden used to be, when the eminent, the eccentric, and the notorious
in every walk of life, were to be found nightly indulging their festivities within its famous
precincts. "Covent Garden," said Crony, once so celebrated for its clubs of wits and convents
of fine women, is grown as dull as modern Athens, and its ladies of pleasure almost as vulgar
as Scotch landladies; formerly, the first beauties of the time assembled every evening under
the Piazzas, and promenaded for hours to the soft notes of the dulcet lute, and the silver
tongues of amorous and persuasive beaus; then the gay scene partook of the splendour of a Venetian
carnival, and such beauties as the Kitten, Peggy Yates, Sally Hall the brunette, Betsy Careless,
and the lively Mrs. Stewart, graced the merry throng, with a hundred more, equally famed, whose
names are enrolled in the cabinet of Love's votaries. Then there was a celebrated house in
Charles-street, called the field of blood, where the droll fellows of the time used nightly
to resort, and throw down whole regiments of black artillery; and then at Tom or Moll King's,
a coffee-house so called, which stood in the centre of Covent Garden market, at midnight might
be found the bucks, bloods, demireps, and choice spirits of London, associated with the most
elegant and fascinating Cyprians, congregated with every species of human kind that intemperance,
idleness, necessity, or curiosity could assemble together. There you might see Tom King enter
as rough as a Bridewell whipper, roaring down the long room and rousing all the sleepers, thrusting
them and all who had empty glasses out of his house, setting everything to rights,--when in
would roll three or four jolly fellows, claret-cosey, and in three minutes put it all into
uproar again; playing all sorts of mad pranks, until the guests in the long room were at battle-royal
together; for in those days pugilistic encounters were equally common as with the present ~349~~times,
owing to the celebrity of Broughton and his amphitheatre, where the science of boxing was publicly
taught. Then was the Spiller's Head in Clare-market, in great vogue for the nightly assemblage
of the wits; there might be seen Hogarth, and Betterton the actor, and Dr. Garth, and Charles
Churchill, the first of English satirists, and the arch politician, Wilkes, and the gay Duke
of Wharton, and witty Morley, the author of Joe Miller, and Walker, the celebrated Macheath,
and the well-known Bab Selby, the oyster-woman, and Fig, the boxer, and old Corins, the clerical
attorney.--All "hail, fellow, well met."{6} And a friend of mine has in his possession a most
extraordinary picture of Hogarth's, on this subject, which has never yet been engraved from.
It is called St. James's Day, or the first day of oysters, and represents the interior of the
Spiller's Head in Clare-market, as it then appeared. The principal figures are the gay and
dissolute Duke of Wharton, for whom the well-known Bab Selby, the oyster-wench, is opening
oysters; Spiller is standing at her back, patting her shoulder; the figure sitting smoking
by the side of the duke is a portrait of Morley, the author of Joe Miller; and the man standing
behind is a portrait of the well-known attendant on the duke's drunken frolics, Fig, the brother
of Fig, the boxer: the person drinking at the bar is Corins, called the parson-attorney, from
his habit of dressing in clerical attire; the two persons sitting at the table represent portraits
of the celebrated Dr. Garth, and Betterton, the actor; the figures, also, of Walker, the celebrated
Macheath, and Lavinia Fenton, the highly-reputed Polly, afterwards Duchess of Bolton, may be
recognised in the back-ground.

The circumstances of this picture having escaped the notice of the biographer of Hogarth is
by no means singular. Mr. Halls, one of the magistrates at Bow-street, has, among other choice
specimens by Hogarth, the lost picture of the Harlot's Progress; the subject telling her fortune
by the tea-grounds in her cup, admirably characteristic of the artist and his story. In my
own collection I have the original picture of the Fish-Women of Calais, with a view of the
market-place, painted on the spot, and as little known as the others to which I have alluded.
There are, no doubt, many other equally clever performances of Hogarth's prolific pencil which
are not generally known to the public, or have not yet been engraved. ~350~~in the same neighbourhood,
in Russel-court, at the old Cheshire Cheese, the inimitable but dissolute Tom Brown wrote many
of his cleverest essays. Then too commenced the midnight revelries and notoriety of the Cider
Cellar, in Maiden-lane, when Sim Sloper, Bob Washington, Jemmy Tas well, Totty Wright, and
Harry Hatzell, led the way for a whole regiment more of frolic-making beings who, like Falstaff,
were not only, witty themselves, but the cause of keeping it alive in others: to these succeeded
Porson the Grecian, Captain Thompson, Tom Hewerdine, Sir John Moore, Mr. Edwin, Mr. Woodfall,
Mr. Brownlow, Captain Morris, and a host of other highly-gifted men, the first lyrical and
political writers of the day,--who frequented the Cider Cellar after the meetings of the Anacreontic,
beefsteak, and humbug clubs then held in the neighbourhood, to taste the parting bowl and swear
eternal friendship. In later times, Her Majesty the Queen of Bohemia{7} raised her standard
in Tavistock-row, Covent Garden, where she held a midnight court for the wits; superintended
by the renowned daughter of Hibernia, and maid of honour to her majesty, the facetious Mother
Butler--the ever-constant supporter of Richard Brinsley Sheridan, esquire, and a leading feature
in all the memorable Westminster elections of the last fifty years. How many jovial nights
have I passed and jolly fellows have I met in the snug sanctum sanctorum! a little crib, as
the fishmongers would call it, with an entrance through the bar, and into which none were ever
permitted to enter without a formal introduction and the gracious permission of the hostess.
Among those who were thus specially privileged, and had the honour of the entré, were the reporters
for the morning papers, the leading members of the eccentrics, the actors and musicians of
the two Theatres Royal, merry members of both Houses of

     7 The sign of the house.

~351~~Parliament, and mad wags of every country who had any established claim to the kindred
feelings of genius. Such were the frequenters of the Finish. Here, poor Tom Sheridan, with
a comic gravity that set discretion at defiance, would let fly some of his brilliant drolleries
at the improvisatore, Theodore Hook; who, lacking nothing of his opponent's wit, would quickly
return his tire with the sharp encounter of a satiric epigram or a brace of puns, planted with
the most happy effect upon the weak side of his adversary's merriment. There too might be seen
the wayward and the talented George Cook, gentlemanly in conduct, and full of anecdote when
sober, but ever captious and uproarious in his cups. Then might be heard a strange encounter
of expressions between the queen of Covent Garden and the voluptuary, Lord Barrymore,{8} seconded
by his brother, the pious Augustus. In one corner might be seen poor Dermody, the poet, shivering
with wretchedness, and Mother Butler pleading his cause with a generous feeling that does honour
to her heart, collecting for him a temporary supply which, alas! his imprudence generally dissipated
with the morrow. Here, George Sutton Manners,{9} and Peter Finnerty,{10} and James Brownly,{11}
inspired by frequent potations of the real

     8  Designated Cripplegate and Newgate.

     9  The relative of the present Archbishop of Canterbury, and
     then editor of the Satirist magazine.

     10  Peter Finnerty was a reporter on the Chronicle. The his-
     tory of Finnerty's political persecutions in his own country
     (Ireland), and afterwards in this, are interwoven with our
     history. The firmness and honesty of his mind had endeared
     him to a very large circle of patriot friends. He was
     eloquent, but impetuous, his ideas appearing to flow too
     fast for delivery. With all the natural warmth of his
     country, he had a heart of sterling gold. Finnerty died
     in 1822, very shortly after his friend Perry.

     11   James Brownly, formerly a reporter on the Times; of
     whom Sheridan said, hearing him speak, that his situation
     ought to have been in the body of the House of Commons,
     instead of the gallery. Brownly possessed very rare
     natural talents, was originally an upholsterer in Catherine-
     street, Strand, and by dint of application acquired a very
     correct knowledge of the tine arts: he was particularly
     skilled  in architecture  and heraldry. In addition to
     his extraordinary powers as an orator, he was a most elegant
     critic, and a very amiable man. He died in 1822, much
     regretted by all who knew him.

~352~~Rocrea whiskey, would hold forth in powerful contention, until mine hostess of the Finish{12}
would put an end to the debate; and the irritation it would sometimes engender, by disencumbering
herself of a few of her Milesian monosyllables. Then would bounce into the room, Felix M'Carthy,
the very cream of comicalities, and the warm-hearted James Hay ne, and Frank Phippen, and Michael
Nugent, and the eloquent David Power, and memory Middleton, and father Proby, just to sip an
emulsion after the close of their labours in reporting a long debate in the House of Commons.
Here, too, I remember to have seen for the first time in my life, the wayward Byron, with the
light of genius beaming in his noble countenance, and an eye brilliant and expressive as the
evening star; the rich juice of the Tuscan grape had diffused an unusual glow over his features,
and inspired him with a playful animation, that but rarely illumined the misanthropic gloominess
of his too sensitive mind. An histrionic star alike distinguished for talent and eccentricity
accompanied him--the gallant, gay Lothario, Kean. But I should consume the remnant of the night
to retrace more of the fading recollections of the Finish. That it was a scene where prudence
did not always preside, is true; but there was a rich union of talent and character always
to be found within its circle, that

     12 Mother Butler, the queen of Covent-garden, for many years
     kept the celebrated Finish, where, if shut out of your
     lodging, you might take shelter till morning, very often in
     the very best of company. The house has, since she left it,
     been shut up through the suspension of its licence. Mother
     Butler was a witty, generous-hearted, and very extraordinary
     woman. She is, I believe, still living, and in good
     circumstances.

~353~~prevented any very violent outrage upon propriety or decorum. In the present day, there
is nothing like it--the Phoenix,{13} Offley's,{14} the Coal-hole,{15} and what yet remains
of the dismembered Eccentrics,{16} bears no comparison to the ripe drolleries and

     13 A society established at the Wrekin tavern in Broad-
     court, in imitation of the celebrated club at Brazennose
     College, Oxford, and of whom I purpose to take some notice
     hereafter.

     14 The Burton ale rooms; frequented by baby bucks, black-
     legs and half-pay officers.

     15 A tavern in Fountain-court, Strand, kept by the poet
     Rhodes; celebrated for the Saturday ordinary.

     16 In the room, where of old the Eccentrics {*} met; When
     mortals were Brilliants, and fond of a whet, And Hecate
     environ'd all London in jet. Where Adolphus, and
     Shorri',{**} and famed Charley Fox, With a hundred good
     whigs led by Alderman Cox, Put their names in the books, and
     their cash in the box; Where perpetual Whittle,{***}
     facetiously grand, On the president's throne each night took
     his stand, With his three-curly wig, and his hammer in hand:
     Then Brownly, with eloquence florid and clear, Pour'd a
     torrent of metaphor into the ear, With well-rounded periods,
     and satire severe. Here too Peter Finnerty, Erin's own
     child, Impetuous, frolicsome, witty, and wild, With many a
     tale has our reason beguiled: Then wit was triumphant, and
     night after night Was the morn usher'd in with a flood of
     delight.

     * The Eccentrics, a club principally composed of persons
     connected with the press or the drama, originally
     established at the Swan, in Chandos-street, Covent-garden,
     under the name of the Brilliants, and afterwards removed to
     the Sutherland Arms, in May's-buildings, St. Martin's-lane;
     --here, for many years, it continued the resort of some of
     the first wits of the time; the chair was seldom taken till
     the theatres were over, and rarely vacated till between four
     and five in the morning.

     ** Sheridan, Charles Fox, Adolphus, and many of the most
     eminent men now at the bar, were members or occasional
     frequenters.

     *** James Whittle, Esq., of Fleet-street, (or, as he was
     more generally denominated, the facetious Jemmy Whittle, of
     the respectable firm of Laurie and Whittle, booksellers and
     publishers) was for some years perpetual president of the
     society, and by his quaint manners, and good-humoured
     sociality, added much to the felicity of the scene--he is
     but recently dead.

~354~~pleasant witticisms which sparkled forth in endless variety among the choice spirits
who frequented the sanctum sanctorum of the old Finish. "There is yet, however, one more place
worthy of notice," said Crony; "not for any amusement we shall derive from its frequenters,
but, simply, that it is the most notorious place in London." Thither it was agreed we should
adjourn; for Crony's description of Madame and Messieurs the Conducteurs was quite sufficient
to produce excitement in the young and ardent minds by which he was then surrounded. I shall
not pollute this work by a repetition of the circumstances connected with this place, as detailed
by old Crony, lest humanity should start back with horror and disgust at the bare mention,
and charity endeavour to throw discredit on the true, but black recital. The specious pretence
of selling shell-fish and oysters is a mere trap for the inexperienced, as every description
of expensive wines, liqueurs, coffee, and costly suppers are in more general request, and the
wanton extravagance exhibited within its vortex is enough to strike the uninitiated and the
moralist with the most appalling sentiments of horror and dismay. Yet within this saloon (see
plate) did we enter, at four o'clock in the morning, to view the depravity of human nature,
and watch the operation of licentiousness upon the young and thoughtless.

A Newgate turnkey would, no doubt, recognize many old acquaintances; in the special hope of
which, Bob Transit has faithfully delineated some of the most conspicuous characters, as they
appeared on that occasion, lending their hearty assistance in the general scene of maddening
uproar. It was past five o'clock in the morning ere we quitted this den of dreadful depravity,
heartily tired out by the night's adventures, yet solacing ourselves with the reflection that
we had seen much and suffered little either in respect to our purses or our persons.

~355~~A note from Dick Gradus invited Echo and myself to hear his opening speech in Westminster
Hall. "I have received my maiden brief" writes the young counsel, "and shall be happy if you
will be present at my first attempt, when, like a true amicus curio, the presence of an old
school-fellow will inspire confidence, and point out what may strike him as defective in my
style." "We will all go," said Transit; "Echo will be amused by the oratory of the bar, and
I shall employ my pencil to advantage in taking notes, not of short hand, but of long heads,
and still longer faces." The confusion created by the building of the new courts at Westminster
has literally choked up, for a time, that noble specimen of Gothic architecture--the ancient
hall; the King's Bench sittings are therefore temporarily held in the Sessions House, a small,
but ~356~~rather compact octangular building, on the right of Parliament-street. Hither we
hasted, at nine o'clock in the morning, to take a view of the court, judges, and counsel, and
congratulate our friend Gradus on his entrée. It has been said, that the only profession in
this country where talents can insure success, is the law. If by this is meant talents of a
popular kind, the power of giving effect to comprehensive views of justice and the bonds of
society, a command of language, and a faculty of bringing to bear upon one point all the resources
of intellect and knowledge, they are mistaken; they speak from former experience, and not from
present observation: they are thinking of the days of a Mingay or an Erskine, not of those
of a Marryat or a Scarlett; of the time when juries were wrought upon by the united influence
of zeal and talent, not when they are governed by precedents and practice; when men were allowed
to feel a little, as well as think a great deal; when the now common phrase of possessing the
ear of the court was not understood, and the tactician and the bully were unknown to the bar.
It is asserted, that one-fifth of the causes that come before our courts are decided upon mere
matters of form, without the slightest reference to their merits. Every student for the bar
must now place himself under some special pleader, and go through all the complicated drudgery
of the office of one of these underlings, before he can hope to fill a higher walk; general
principles, and enlarged notions of law and justice, are smothered in laborious and absurd
technicalities; the enervated mind becomes shackled, until the natural vigour of the intellect
is so reduced, as to make its bondage cease to seem burdensome. Dick, with a confidence in
his own powers, has avoided this degrading preparation; it is only two months since he was
first called to the bar, and with a knowledge of his father's influence and property added
to his own talents, he hopes to make a ~357~~stand in court, previous to his being transplanted
to the Commons House of Parliament.

A tolerable correct estimate may be formed of the popularity of the judges, by observing the
varied bearings of respect evinced towards them upon their entrance into court. Mr. Justice
Best came first, bending nearly double under a painful infirmity, and was received by a cold
and ceremonious rising of the bar. To him succeeded his brother Holroyd, a learned but not
a very brilliant lawyer, and another partial acknowledgment of the counsel was observable.
Then entered the Chief Justice, Sir Charles Abbot, with more of dignity in his carriage than
either of the preceding, and a countenance finely expressive of serenity and comprehensive
faculties: his welcome was of a more general, and, I may add, genial nature; for his judicial
virtues have much endeared him to the profession and the public. But the universal acknowledgment
of the bar, the jury, and the reporters for the public press, who generally occupy the students'
box, was reserved for Mr. Justice Bayley; upon whose entrance, all in court appeared to rise
with one accord to pay a tribute of respect to this very distinguished, just, and learned man.
All this might have been accidental, you will say; but it was in such strict accordance with
my own feelings and popular opinion besides, that, however invidious it may appear, I cannot
resist the placing it upon record. To return to the Chief Justice: he is considered a man of
strong and piercing intellect, penetrating at once to the bottom of a cause, when others, even
the counsel, are very often only upon the surface; his intuition in this respect is proverbial,
and hence much of the valuable time of the court is saved upon preliminary or immaterial points.
Added to which, he is an excellent lawyer, shrewd, clear, and forcible in his delivery, very
firm in his judgments, and mild in his ~358~~language; with a patient command of temper, and
continued appearance of good-humour, that adds much to his dignity, and increases public veneration.
That he has been the architect of his own elevation is much to be applauded; and it is equally
honourable to the state to acknowledge, that he is more indebted to his great talents and his
legal knowledge for his present situation than to any personal influence of great interest{1}:
of him it may be justly said, he hath

     "A piercing wit quite void of ostentation; high-erected
     thoughts seated in a heart of courtesy; an eloquence as sweet
     in the uttering, as slow to come to the uttering."

     Sir P. Sidney's Arcadia.

It was Dick Gradus's good-luck to be opposed to Scarlett in a case of libel, where the latter
was for the defendant. "Of all men else at the bar, I know of no one whom I so much wish to
encounter," said Gradus. His irritable temper, negligence in reading his briefs, and consummate
ignorance{2} in any thing beyond term-reports, renders him an easy conquest to a quiet, learned,
and comprehensive mind. The two former are qualifications Gradus possesses in a very superior
degree, and he proved he was in no wise deficient in his opponent's great requisite; I suppose
we must call it confidence; but another phrase would be more significant. Scarlett is a great
tactician; and in defending his client, never hesitates to take

     1  We hear that an allusion in page 359 of this work has
     been supposed to relate to a near relative of the respected
     Chief Justice: if it bears any similitude, it is the effect
     of accident alone; the portrait being drawn for another and
     a very different person, as the reference to altitude might
     have shown.

     2 See the castigation he received in the Courier of Friday.
     Dec. 10, 1824, for his total ignorance of the common terms
     of art.

          "----that trick of courts to wear
          Silk at the cost of flattery."

          James Shirley's Poems.

~359~~what I should consider the most unfair, as they are ungentlemanly advantages. But there

     "be they that use men's writings like brute beasts, to make
     them draw which way they list."

     T. Nash's Lenten Stuff, 1599.

His great success and immense practice at the bar is more owing to the scarcity of silk-gowns{3}
than the profundity of his talents. The perpetual simper that plays upon his ruby countenance,
when finessing with a jury, has, no doubt, its artful effect; although it is as foreign to
the true feelings of the man, as the malicious grin of the malignant satirist would be to generosity
and true genius. Of his oratory, the aureum flumen orationis is certainly not his; and, if
he begins a sentence well, he seldom arrives at the conclusion on the same level: he is always
most happy in a reply, when he can trick his adversary by making an abusive speech, and calling
no witnesses to prove his assertions. Our friend Gradus obtained a verdict, and after it the
congratulations of the court and bar, with whom Scarlett is, from his superciliousness, no
great favourite. Owen Feltham, in his Resolves, well says, that "arrogance is a weed that ever
grows upon a dunghill."{4} The contrast between Scarlett and his great opponent, Mr. Serjeant
Copley,

     3 Generally speaking, the management of two-thirds of the
     business of the court is entrusted to four silk-gowns, and
     about twice as many worsted robes behind the bar.

     4 An Impromptu written in the Court of King's Bench during a
     recent trial for libel.

          The Learned Pig.

          "My learned Friend," the showman cries;
          The pig assents--the showman lies;
          So counsel oft address a brother
          In flattering lie to one another;
          Calling their friend some legal varlet,
          Who lies, and bullies, till he's Scarlett.

~360~~the present Attorney-General, is a strong proof of the truth of this quotation. To a
systematic and profound knowledge of the law, this gentleman unites a mind richly stored with
all the advantages of a liberal education and extensive reading, not merely confined to the
dry pursuit in which he is engaged, but branching forth into the most luxuriant and highly-cultivated
fields of science and the arts. On this account, he shines with peculiar brightness at Nisi
Prius; and is as much above the former in the powers of his mind and splendour of his oratory,
as he is superior to the presumptuousness of Scarlett's vulgarity. Mr. Marryat is said to possess
an excellent knowledge of the heavy business of his profession; and it must be admitted, that
his full, round, heavy-looking countenance, and still heavier attempts at wit and humour, admirably
suit the man to his peculiar manner: after all, he is a most persevering counsel; not deficient
in good sense, and always distinguished by great zeal for his client's interests. Mr. Gurney
is a steady, pains-taking advocate, considered by the profession as a tolerable criminal lawyer,
but never affecting any very learned arguments in affairs of principles or precedents. In addressing
a jury, he is both perspicuous and convincing; but far too candid and gentlemanly in his practice
to contend with the trickery of Scarlett.--Mr. Common-Serjeant Denman is a man fitted by nature
for the law. I never saw a more judicial-looking countenance in my life; there is a sedate
gravity about it, both "stern and mild," firm without fierceness, and severe without austerity:--he
appears thoughtful, penetrating, and serene, yet not by any means devoid of feeling and expression:--deeply
read in the learning of his profession, he is yet much better than a mere lawyer; for his speeches
and manners must convince his hearers that he is an accomplished gentleman. Of Brougham, it
may be justly said,~361~~

          ----" his delights
          Are dolphin-like; they show his back above
          The elements he lives in:"

his voice, manner, and personal appearance, are not the happiest; but the gigantic powers of
his mind, and the energy of his unconquerable spirit, rise superior to these defects. His style
of speaking is marked by a nervous freedom of the most convincing character; he aims little
at refinement, and labours more to make himself intelligible than elegant. In zeal for his
clients, no man is more indefatigable; and he always appears to dart forward with an undaunted
resolution to overcome and accomplish. But here I must stop sketching characters, and refer
you to a very able representation of the court, the bar, and jury, by our friend Transit, in
which are accurate likenesses of all I have previously named, and also of the following worthies,
Messrs. Raine, Pollock, Ashworth, Courtney, Starkie, Williams, Parke, Rotch, Piatt, Patterson,
Raper, Browne, Lawrence, and Whately, to which are added some whom--

     "God forbid me if I slander them with the title of learned,
     for generally they are not."--Nash's Lenten Stuff, 1599.

We were just clearing the steps of the court house, when a jolly-looking, knowing sort of fellow,
begged permission to speak to Echo. A crimson flush o'erspread Tom's countenance in a moment.
Transit, who was down, as he phrased it, tipped me a wink; and although I had never before
seen either of the professional brothers-in-law, John Doe and Richard Roe, the smart jockey-boots,
short stick, sturdy appearance, and taking manners of the worthy, convinced me at once, that
our new acquaintance was one or other of those well-known personages: to be brief, poor Tom
was arrested for a large sum by a Bond-street hotel-keeper, who had trusted him somewhat too long.

~362~~Arrangement by bail was impossible: this was a proceeding on a judgment; and with as
little ceremony, and as much sang froid as he would have entered a theatre, poor Tom was placed
inside a hackney coach, accompanied by the aforesaid personage and his man, and drove off in
apparent good spirits for the King's Bench Prison, where Transit and myself promised to attend
him on the morrow, employing the mean time in attempting to free him from durance vile. It
was about twelve at noon of the next day, when Transit and myself, accompanied by Tom's creditor
and his solicitor, traversed over Waterloo Bridge, and bent our steps towards the abode of
our incarcerated friend.

          "The winds of March, with many a sudden gust,
          About Saint George's Fields had raised the dust;
          And stirr'd the massive bars that stand beneath
          The spikes, that wags call Justice Abbot's teeth."

The first glimpse of the Obelisk convinced us we had entered the confines of Abbot's Park,
as the rules are generally termed, for here Bob recognised two or three among the sauntering
rangers, whose habiliments bore evidence of their once fashionable notoriety;

          "And still they seem'd, though shorn of many a ray,
          Not less than some arch dandy in decay."

"A very pretty bit of true life," said Bob; and out came the sketch book to note them down,
which, as we loitered forward, was effected in his usual rapid manner, portraying one or two
well-known characters; but for their cognomens, misfortune claims exemption:--to them we say,

          "Thou seest thou neither art mark'd out or named,
          And therefore only to thyself art shamed."
          J. Withers's Abuses strict and whipt.

~363~~

To be brief, we found Echo, by the aid of the crier, safely tiled in at ten in twelve, happy
to all appearance, and perfectly domiciled, with two other equally fresh associates. The creditor
and his solicitor chose to wait the issue of our proposition in the lobby; a precaution, as
I afterwards found, to be essentially necessary to their own safety; for,

          "He whom just laws imprison still is free
          Beyond the proudest slaves of tyranny."

Although I must confess the exhibition we had of freedom in Banco Regis was rather a rough
specimen; a poor little limb of the law, who had formerly been a leg himself, had, like other
great lawyers, ratted, and commenced a furious warfare upon some old cronies, for divers penalties
and perjuries, arising out of Greek prosecutions: too eager to draw the blunt, he had been
inveigled into the interior of the prison, and there, after undergoing a most delightful pumping
upon, ~364~~was rough-dried by being tossed in a blanket (see plate).

This entertainment we had the honour of witnessing from Echo's room window; and unless the
Marshal and his officers had interfered, I know not what might have been the result. A very
few words sufficed to convince Tom of the necessity of yielding to his creditor's wishes. A
letter of licence was immediately produced and signed, and the gay-hearted Echo left once more
at liberty to wing his flight wherever his fancy might direct. On our road home, it was no
trifling amusement to hear him relate

          "The customs of the place,
          The manners of its mingled populace,
          The lavish waste, the riot, and excess,
          Neighbour'd by famine, and the worst distress;
          The decent few, that keep their own respect,
          And the contagion of the place reject;
          The many, who, when once the lobby's pass'd,
          Away for ever all decorum cast,
          And think the walls too solid and too high,
          To let the world behold their infamy."

Ever on the alert for novelty, we hopped into and dined at the Coal Hole Tavern in the Strand,
certainly one of the best and cheapest ordinaries in London, and the society not of the meanest.
Rhodes himself is a punster and a poet, sings a good song, and sells the best of wine; and
what renders mine host more estimable, is the superior manners of the man. Here was congregated
together a mixed, but truly merry company, composed of actors, authors, reporters, clerks in
public departments, and half-pay officers, full of whim, wit, and eccentricity, which, when
the mantling bowl had circulated, did often "set the table in a roar." In the evening, Transit
proposed to us a visit to the Life Academy, Somerset House, where he was an admitted student;
but on trying the experiment, was not able to effect our introduction: you must therefore be
content with ~365~~his sketch of the true sublime, in which he has contrived to introduce the
portraits of several well-known academicians (see plate).

Thus far Horatio Heartly had written, when the unexpected appearance of Bernard Blackmantle
in London cut short the thread of his narrative. "Where now, mad-cap?" said the sincere friend
of his heart: "what unaccountable circumstance can have brought you to the village in term
and out of vacation?" "A very uncommon affair, indeed, for a young author, I assure you: I
have had the good fortune to receive a notice from the managers of the two Theatres Royal,
that my play is accepted at Covent Garden, and my farce at Drury Lane, and am come up post-haste
to read them in the green rooms to-morrow, and take the town by storm before the end of the
next month." "It is a dangerous experiment," said Horatio. "I know it," replied the fearless
Bernard; "but he who fears danger will never march on to fortune or to victory. I am sure I
have a sincere friend in Charles Kemble, if managerial influence can ensure the success of
my play; and I have cast my farce so strong, that even with all Elliston's mismanagement, it
cannot well fail of making a hit. Nil desperandum is my motto; so a truce with your friendly
forebodings of doubts, and fears, and critics' scratches; for I am determined 'to seek the
bubble reputation even in the cannon's mouth.'" Thus ended the colloquy, and on the morning
of the morrow Bernard was introduced, in due form, to the dramatis personæ of the Theatre Royal,
Covent Garden (see plate).

There is as much difference between the rival companies of the two patent theatres as there
is between the habits and conduct of the managers: in Covent Garden, the gentlemanly manners
of Charles Kemble, and his amiable desire to make all happy around him, has imparted something
of a kindred feeling to the ~366~~performers; and hence, assisted by the friendly ancient Fawcett,
the whole of the establishment has all the united family feeling of a little commonwealth,
struggling to secure its independence and popularity. Here Bernard's reception was every thing
a young author could wish: kind attention from the company, and considerative hints for the
improvement of his play, accompanied with the good wishes of all for its success, left an impression
of gratitude upon the mind of the young author, that gave fresh inspiration to his talents,
and increased his confidence in his own abilities. At Drury Lane the case was far otherwise;
and the want of that friendly attention which distinguished the rival company proved very embarrassing
to the early buddings of dramatic genius. Perhaps a slight sketch of the scene might not prove
uninstructive to young authors, or fail in its intended effect upon old actors. Reader, imagine
Bernard Blackmantle, an enthusiastic and eccentric child of Genius, seated at the green-room
table, reading his musical farce to the surrounding company, and then judge what must be the
effect of the following little scene.

PROGRAMME.

Bernard Blackmantle reading; Mr. Elliston speaking to Spring, the box-office keeper; and Mr.
Winston in a passion, at the door, with the master carpenter; Mr. Knight favouring the Author
with a few new ideas; and the whole company engaged in the most amusing way, making side speeches
to one another (see plate).

DOWTON. 'Gad, renounce me--little valorous--d----d annoying, (looking at his watch)--these
long rehearsals always spoil my Vauxhall dinner--More hints to the Author--better keep them
for his next piece.

~367~~MUNDEN (sputtering). My wigs and eyes--Dowton's a better part than mine; I'll have a
fit of the gout, on purpose to get out of it--that's what I will.

KNIGHT (to the Author). My dear boy, it strikes me that it might be much improved. (Aside)
Got an idea; but can't let him have it for nothing.

HARLEY (to Elliston). If this piece succeeds, it can't be played every night--let Fitz. understudy
it--don't breakfast on beef-steaks, now. If you wish to enjoy health--live at Pimlico--take
a run in the parks--and read Abernethy on constitutional origin.

TERRY (to Mrs. Orger). It's a remarkable thing that the manager should allow these d----d interruptions.
If it was my piece, I would not suffer it--that's my opinion.

WALLACE (to himself). What a little discontented mortal that is!--it's the best part in the
piece, and he wishes it made still better.

ELLISTON (awakening). Silence there, gentlemen, or it will be impossible to settle this important
point--and my property will, in consequence, be much deteriorated. (Enter Boy with brandy and
water.) Proceed, sir--(to Author, after a sip)--Very spirited indeed.

Enter Sam. Spring, touching his hat.

SPRING. Underline a special desire, sir, next week? Elliston. No, Sam., I fear our special
desires are nearly threadbare.

Prompter's boy calling in at the door. Mr. Octavius Clarke would be glad to speak with Mr.
Elliston.

ELLISTON. He be d----d! Silence that noise between Messrs. Winston and Bunn--and turn out Waterloo
Tom.

MADAME VESTRIS. My dear Elliston, do you mean to keep us here all day?

~368~~ELLISTON (whispering). I had rather keep you all night, madame.

SHERWIN (to G. Smith). I wish it may be true that one of our comedians is going to the other
house; I shall then stand some chance for a little good business--at present I have only two
decent parts to my back.

LISTON (as stiff as a poker). If I pass an opinion, I must have an increase of salary; I never
unbend on these occasions.

MRS. ORGER (to the author). This part is not so good as Sally Mags. I must take my friend's
opinion in the city.

MISS STEPHENS (laughing). I shall only sing one stanza of this ballad--it's too sentimental.

MISS SMITHSON (aside, but loud enough for the manager to hear). Ton my honour, Mr. Elliston
never casts me any thing but the sentimental dolls and la la ladies.

G-- SMITH (in a full bass voice). Nor me any thing but the rough cottagers and banditti men;
but, never mind, my bass solo will do the trick.

GATTIE (yawning). I wish it was twelve o'clock, for I'm half asleep, and I've made a vow never
to take snuff before twelve; if you don't believe me, ask Mrs. G. After the hit I made in Monsieur
Tonson, it's d--d hard they don't write more Frenchmen.

MADAME VESTRIS. Mr. Author, can't you make this a breeches part?--I shall be all abroad in
petticoats.

BERNARD BLACKMANTLE. I should wish to be at home with Madame Vestris.

MRS. HARLOWE. Really, Mr. Author, this part of mine is a mere clod's wife--nothing like so
good as Dame Ashfield. Could not you introduce a supper-scene?

At length silence is once more obtained; the author finishes his task, and retires from the
Green-room ~369~~looking as blue as Megrim, and feeling as fretful as the renowned Sir Plagiary.
Of the success or failure of the two productions, I shall speak in the next volume; when I
propose to give the first night of a new play, with sketches of some of the critical characters
who usually attend. In the evening, Transit, Echo, and Heartly enlisted me for the Lord Mayor's
ball at the Mansion House--a most delightful squeeze; and, it being during Waithman's mayoralty,
abounding with lots of character for my friend Bob; to whose facetious pencil, I must at present
leave the scene (see plate); intending to be more particular in my civic descriptions, should
I have the honour of dining with the Corporation next year in their Guildhall.

The wind-up of the term rendered it essentially necessary that I should return to Oxford with
all possible expedition, as my absence at such a time, if discovered, might involve me in some
unpleasant feeling with the big wigs. Hither I arrived, in due time to save a lecture, and
receive an invitation to spend a few weeks in the ensuing year at Cambridge, where my kind
friend Horace Eglantine has entered himself of Trinity; and by the way of inducement, has transmitted
the characteristic sketch of the notorious Jemmy Gordon playing off one of his mad pranks upon
the big wigs of Peter-House, (see plate) the particulars of which, will, with more propriety,
come into my sketches at Cambridge.

We are here all bustle--Scouts packing up and posting off to the coach-offices with luggage--securing
places for students, and afterwards clearing places for themselves--Oxford Duns on the sharp
look-out for shy-ones, and pretty girls whimpering at the loss of their lovers--Dons and Big
wigs promising themselves temporal pleasures, and their ladies reviling the mantua-makers for
not having used sufficient expedition--some taking their last farewell of alma mater, and others
sighing to behold the joyous faces of affectionate kindred and early friends. Long ~370~~bills,
and still longer promises passing currently--and the High-street exhibiting a scene of general
confusion, until the last coach rattles over Magdalen bridge, and Oxford tradesmen close their
oaks.

Bernard Blackmantle.

TERM ENDS.

CONCLUSION OF VOLUME ONE.

VOLUME II.

1826.

LONDON.

PRINTED BY THOMAS DAVISON, WHITEFRIARS

     ILLUSTRATIONS IN THE  ENGLISH  SPY.

                                                         to face page
     I.

     A  SHORT SET-TO AT  LONG'S HOTEL;   OR,
     STOPFORD NOT GETTING THE BEST OF IT.                          14

     II.

     COURTIERS CAROUSING IN A CADGER'S KEN.                        28

     III.

     THE    WAKE;     OR,    TEDDY    O'RAFFERTY'S    LAST

     APPEARANCE.    A Scene in the Holy Land.                      30

     IV.
     THE CYPRIAN'S BALL AT THE ARGYLL ROOM.                        42

     V.

     JOHN   LISTON AND THE LAMBKINS;  OR, THE

     CITIZEN'S TREAT.                                              57

     VI.

     THE GREAT ACTOR;   OR,  MR PUNCH IN ALL HIS

     GLORY.                                                        62

     Amusements of the lower orders.    Scene in Leicester-fields.

     VII.

     COLLEGE GHOSTS.                                               66

     A Frolic of the Westminster Blacks.   A Scene in Dean's
     Yard.

     VIII.

     THE MARIGOLD FAMILY ON A PARTY OF PLEA-
     SURE; OR, THE EFFECT OF A STORM IN THE
     LITTLE BAY OF BISCAY, otherwise, CHELSEA
     REACH.                                                        68

     Hints to Fresh Water Sailors, the Alderman and family
     running foul of the Safety. A bit of Fun for the Westminster
     Scholars. How to make Ducks and Geese swim after they
     are cooked.    Calamities of a Cit's Water Party to Richmond.

     IX.
     THE   EPPING   HUNT   ON   EASTER   MONDAY;    OR,
     COCKNEY COMICALITIES IN FULL CHASE.                           73

     Lots of Characters and Lots of Accidents, Runaways and
     Fly-aways, No Goes and Out and Outers, the Flask and the
     Foolish, Gibs, Spavins, Millers and Trumpeters. The Stag
     against the Field. Bob Transit's Excursion with the Nacker
     man.

     X.

     THE TEA-POT ROW AT HARROW; OR, THE BATTLE

     OF HOG LANE.                                                  81

     Harrow boys making a smash among the Crockery, a Scene
     Sketched from the Life, dedicated to the Sons of Noblemen
     and Gentlemen participators in the Sport.

     XI.

     THE CIT'S SUNDAY ORDINARY AT THE GATE
     HOUSE, HIGHGATE; OR, EVERY HOG TO HIS
     OWN APPLE.                                                    89

     Another Trip with the Marigold Family. Specimens of
     Gormandizing. Inhabitants of Cockayne ruralizing. Cits and
     their Cubs.    Cutting Capers, a scramble for a Dinner.

     XII.
     BULLS AND  BEARS IN  HIGH  BUSTLE; OR,   BILLY
     WRIGHT'S   PONY   MADE   A   MEMBER   OF   THE
     STOCK EXCHANGE.                                              124

     Interior view of the Money Market. Portraits of well-known
     Stock Brokers.    A Scene Sketched from the Life.

     XIII.

     THE PROMENADE AT COWES.                                      162

     With Portraits of noble Commanders and Members of the
     Royal Yacht Club.

     XIV.

     THE RETURN TO PORT.                                          184

     Sailors Carousing, or a Jollification on board the Piranga.

     XV.

     POINT STREET,  PORTSMOUTH.                                   188

     Chairing the Cockswain. British Tars and their Girls in
     high Glee.

     XVI.

     EVENING    AND   IN   HIGH   SPIRITS,   A   SCENE  AT

     LONG'S HOTEL, BOND-STREET.                                   192

     Well-known Roués and their Satellites. Portraits from the
     Life, including the Pea Green Hayne, Tom Best, Lord W.
     Lennox, Colonel Berkeley, Mr. Jackson, White Headed Bob,
     Hudson the Tobacconist, John Long, &c. &c.

     XVII.

     MORNING, AND IN LOW SPIRITS, A LOCK UP
     SCENE IN A SPONGING HOUSE, CAREY STREET.--
     A BIT OF GOOD TRUTH.                                         206

     For Particulars, see Work; or inquire of Fat Radford, the
     Domini of the Domxts.

     XVIII.

     THE HOUSE OF LORDS IN HIGH DEBATE.                           210

     Sketched at the time when II. R. H. the Duke of York was
     making his celebrated Speech upon the Catholic Question.
     Portraits of the Dukes of York, Gloucester, Wellington, De-
     vonshire, Marquesses of Anglesea and Hertford, Earls of Liver-
     pool, Grey, Westmorland, Bathurst, Eldon, and Pomfret,
     Lords Holland, King, Ellenborough, &c. &c. and the whole
     Bench of Bishops.

     XIX.

     THE POINT OF HONOUR DECIDED; OR, THE LEADEN

     ARGUMENTS OF A LOVE AFFAIR.                                  214

     View in Hyde Park. Tom Echo engaged in an affair of
     honour.    A Chapter on Duelling.

     XX.
     THE GREAT SUBSCRIPTION ROOM AT BROOKES'S.                    217

     Opposition Members engaged upon Hazardous Points. Por-
     traits of the Great and the Little well-known Parliamentary
     Characters.

     XXI.

     THE EVENING  IN   THE   CIRCULAR ROOM;   OR,   A

     SQUEEZE AT CARLTON PALACE.                                   219

     Exquisites and Elegantes making their way to the Presence
     Chamber. Portraits of Stars of Note and Ton, Blue Ribands
     and Red Ribands, Army and Navy.

     XXII.
     THE HIGH STREET, CHELTENHAM.                                 222

     Well-known characters among the Chelts.

     XXIII.
     GOING OUT.                                                   226

     A View of Berkeley Hunt Kennel.

     XXIV.
     THE ROYAL WELLS  AT  CHELTENHAM;  OR, SPAS-
     MODIC AFFECTIONS FROM SPA WATERS.                            245
     Chronic Affections and Cramp Comicalities.

     XXV.

     THE BAG-MEN'S BANQUET.                                       248

     A View of the Commercial Room at the Bell Inn, Chelten-
     ham.    Portraits of well-known Travellers.

     XXVI.

     THE OAKLAND COTTAGES, CHELTENHAM; OR, FOX
     HUNTERS AND THEIR FAVOURITES, A TIT BIT,
     DONE FROM THE LIFE.                                          268

     Dedicated to the Members of the Berkeley Hunt.

     XXVII.

     DONCASTER  RACE   COURSE   DURING  THE  GREAT

     ST. LEGER RACE, 1825.                                        269

     Well-known Heroes of the Turf.    Legs and Loungers.

     XXVIII.

     THE COMICAL PROCESSION FROM GLOUCESTER

     TO BERKELEY.                                                 288

     XXIX.

     THE POST OFFICE, BRISTOL.                                    293

     Arrival of the London Mail. Lots of News, and New
     Characters.    Portraits of well-known Bristolians.

     XXX.
     FANCY BALL AT THE UPPER ROOMS, BATH.                         302

     XXXI.
     THE PUMP ROOM, BATH.                                         311

     Visitors taking a sip with King Bladud.

     XXXII.

     THE  OLD  BEAU  AND  FALSE  BELLE;  OR,   MR.   B.

     AND MISS L.                                                  316

     A Bath Story.

     XXXIII.
     THE   PUBLIC   BATHS   AT   BATH;    OR,    STEWING

     ALIVE.                                                       320

     Bernard BlackmantlE and Bob Transit taking a Dip with
     King Bladud. Union of the Sexes. Welsh Wigs and
     Decency.    No Swimming or Plunging allowed.

     XXXIV.

     MILSOM   STREET   AND   BOND   STREET,   OR   BATH

     SWELLS.                                                      326

     Well-known Characters at the Court of King Bladud.

     XXXV.

     THE   BUFF   CLUB   AT   THE   PIG   AND   WHISTLE,

     AVON STREET, BATH.                                           332

     A Bit of Real Life in the Territories of old King Bladud.

     XXXVI.

     THE BOWLING ALLEY AT WORCESTER; OR, THE
     WELL-KNOWN CHARACTERS OF THE HAND AND
     GLOVE CLUB.                                                  335

     ENGRAVINGS ON WOOD.

     1.  The Gate House, Highgate, Citizens toiling up the Hill
         to the Sunday Ordinary                                   109

     2.   A Lame Duck waddling out of the Stock Exchange          139

     3.   The Dandy Candy Man, a Cheltenham Vignette              283

     4.   The Floating Harbour and Welsh Back, Bristol.           292

     5.  Bath  Market-place,   with Portraits of the celebrated
     Orange Women                                                 295

     6.  The Sporting Club at the Castle Tavern.    Portraits of
     Choice Spirits                                               300

     7.  The Battle of the Chairs                                 306

     8.  Vignette.
          Vide Work.

INTRODUCTION TO THE SECOND VOLUME.

BERNARD BLACKMANTLE TO THE PUBLIC.

          "The Muse's office was by Heaven design'd
          To please, improve, instruct, reform mankind."
          --Churchill.

Readers!--friends, I may say, for your flattering support has enabled me to continue my Sketches
of Society to a second volume with that prospect of advantage to all concerned which makes
labour delightful--accept this fresh offering of an eccentric, but grateful mind, to that shrine
where alone he feels he owes any submission--the tribunal of Public Opinion. In starting for
the goal of my ambition, the prize of your approbation, I have purposely avoided the beaten
track of other periodical writers, choosing for my subjects scenes and characters of real life,
transactions of our own times, characteristic, satirical, and humorous, confined to no particular
place, and carefully avoiding every thing like personal ill-nature or party feeling. My associates,
the Artists and Publishers, are not less anxious than myself to acknowledge their gratitude;
and we intend to prove, by our united endeavours, how highly we appreciate the extensive patronage
we have already obtained.

BERNARD BLACKMANTLE,

ODE, CONGRATULATORY AND ADVISIORY,

TO BERNARD BLACKMANTLE, ESQ.

ON THE COMPLETION OF HIS FIRST VOLUME OF THE SPY.

     "I smell a rat."--Book of Common Parlance.

     "More sinned against than sinning."--William Shakspeare.

     "The very Spy o' the time."--Ibid.

          Well done, my lad, you've run on strong
          Amidst the bustle of life's throng,
          Nor thrown a spavin yet;
          You've gone at score, your pace has told;
          I hope, my boy, your wind will hold--
          You've others yet to fret.

          You've told the town that you are fly
          To cant, and rant, and trickery;
          And that whene'er you doze,
          Like Bristol men, you never keep
          But one eye closed--so you can tweak
          E'en then a scoundrel's nose.

          Pull up, and rinse your mouth a bit;
          It is hot work, this race of wit,
          And sets the bellows piping;
          Next Vol. you'll grind the flats again,
          And file the sharps unto the grain,
          Their very stomachs griping.

~6~~

          But why, good Bernard, do you dream
          That we Reviewers scorn the cream{1}
          Arising from your jokes?
          Upon my soul, we love some fun
          As well as any 'neath the sun,
          Although we fight in cloaks.

          Heav'n help thee, boy, we are not they
          Who only go to damn a play,
          And cackle in the pit;
          Like good Sir William Curtis{2} we
          Can laugh at nous and drollery,
          Though of ourselves 'twere writ.

          Was yours but sky blue milk and water,
          We'd hand you over to the slaughter
          Of cow committee-men{3};
          For butterflies, and "such small deer,"
          Are much beneath our potent spear--
          The sharp gray goose-wing'd pen.

     1 See my friend Bernard's cracker to the reviewers in No.
     12, a perfect fifth of November bit of firework, I can
     assure you, good people. But it won't go off with me without
     a brand from the bonfire in return.    "Bear this bear all."

     2 Have you ever dared the "salt sea ocean," my readers, with
     the alderman admiral? If not, know that he has as pretty a
     collection of caricatures in his cabin, and all against his
     own sweet self, as need be wished to heal sea-sickness. Is
     not this magnanimity? I think so. The baronet is really "a
     worthy gentleman."

     3 Vide advertisements of "Alderney Milk Company." What
     company shall we keep next, my masters? Mining companies, or
     steam brick companies, or washing companies? How many of
     them will be in the suds anon? Pshaw! throw physic to the
     projectors--I prefer strong beer well hopped.

          But yours we feel is sterner stuff,
          And though perchance too much in huff,
          More natural you will swear;
          It really shows such game and pluck,
          That we could take with you "pot luck,"
          And deem it decent fare.

          But, 'pon our conscience, bonny lad,
          (We've got some, boy), it is too bad
          So fiercely to show fight;
          Gadzooks, 'tis time when comes the foe
          To strip and sport a word and blow,
          My dear pugnacious wight!

          'Tis very wise, T own, to pull
          Fast by the horns some butting bull,
          When 'gainst yourself he flies;
          But to attack that sturdy beast,
          When he's no thoughts on you to feast,
          Is very otherwise.

          But we'll forgive your paper balls,
          Which on our jackets hurtless falls,

          Like hail upon a tower:
          Pray put wet blankets on your ire;
          Really, good sir, we've no desire
          To blight so smart a flower.

          Well, then, I see no reason why
          There should be war, good Mister Spy
          So, faith! we'll be allies;
          And if we must have fights and frays,
          We'll shoot at pride and poppinjays,

          And folly as it flies.
          There's field enough for both to beat
          Employment for our hands, eyes, feet,
          To mark the quarry down,
          Black game and white game a full crop,
          Fine birds, fine feathers for to lop,
          In country and in town.

~8~~

          New city specs, new west-end rigs,
          New gas-blown boots, new steam-curl'd wigs,
          New fashionable schools,
          New dandies, and new Bond-street dons,
          And new intrigues, and new crim cons,
          New companies of fools.{4}

          Maria Foote and Edmund Kean,
          The "lions" just now of the scene,
          Shall yield to newer fun;
          For all our wonders at the best
          Are cast off for a newer vest,
          After a nine days' run.

          Old beaux at Bath, manoeuvring belles,
          And pump-room puppies, Melsom swells,
          And Mr. Heaviside,{5}
          And Cheltenham carders,{6} every runt,

     4 See note 3, page 6.

     5 Mr. Heaviside, the polite M. C. of Bath. He has the finest
     cauliflower head of hair I over remember; but it covers a
     world of wit, for all that, and therefore however it may
     appear, it certainly is not the heavy side of him.

     6 Cards, cards, cards, nothing but cards from "rosy morn to
     dewy eve" at the town of Cheltenham. Whist, with the sun
     shining upon their sovereigns, one would think a sovereign
     remedy for their waste of the blessed day--écarte, whilst
     the blue sky is mocking the blue countenances of your thirty
     pound losers in as many seconds. Is it not marvellous?
     Fathers, husbands, men who profess to belong to the Church.
     By Jupiter! instead of founding the new university they talk
     about, they had better make it for the pupilage of perpetual
     card-players, and let them take their degrees by the
     cleverness in odd tricks, or their ability in shuffling. "No
     offence, Gregory." "No wonder they have their decrepit ones,
     their ranters."

~9~~

          The playhouse, Berkeley, and "the hunt,"
          With Marshall{7} by their side.

          All these and more I should be loth
          To let escape from one or both,
          So saddle for next heat:
          The bell is rung, the course is cleared,
          Mount on your hobby, "nought afear'd,"
          Black-jacket can't be beat.

          "Dum spiro spero" shout, and ride
          Till you have 'scalp'd old Folly's hide,
          And none a kiss will waft her;
          Bind all the fools in your new book,
          That "I spy!" may lay my hook,
          And d--n them nicely after.

          An Honest Reviewer.{8}

          Given at my friend, "Sir John Barleycorn's"
          Chambers, Tavistock, Covent Garden, this the
          19th, day of February, 1825, "almost at odds
          with morning."

     7 Mr. Marshall, the M. C. of Cheltenham. "Wear him in your
     heart's core, Horatio." I knew him well, a "fellow of
     infinite jest."    A long reign and a merry one to him.

     8 My anonymous friend will perceive that I estimate his wit
     and talent quite as much as his honesty: had he not been
     such a rara avis he would have been consigned to the "tomb
     of all the Capulets."

CYTHEREAN BEAUTIES.

          "The trav'ller, if he chance to stray,
          May turn uncensured to his way;
          Polluted streams again are pure,
          And deepest wounds admit a cure;
          But woman no redemption knows--
          The wounds of honour never close."
          --Moore.

~10~~Tremble not, ye fair daughters of chastity! frown not, ye moralists! as your eyes rest
upon the significant title to our chapter, lest we should sacrifice to curiosity the blush
of virtue. We are painters of real life in all its varieties, but our colouring shall not be
over-charged, or our characters out of keeping. The glare of profligacy shall be softened down
or so neutralized as not to offend the most delicate feelings. In sketching the reigning beauties
of the time, we shall endeavour to indulge the lovers of variety without sacrificing the fair
fame of individuals, or attempting to make vice respectable. Pleasure is our pursuit, but we
are accompanied up the flowery ascent by Contemplation and Reflection, two monitors that shrink
back, like sensitive plants, as the thorns press upon them through the ambrosial beds of new-blown
roses. In our record of the daughters of Pleasure, we shall only notice those who are distinguished
as belles of ton--stars of the first magnitude in the hemisphere of Fashion; and of these the
reader may say, with one or two exceptions, they "come like shadows, so depart." We would rather
excite sympathy and pity for the ~11~~unfortunate, than by detailing all we know produce the
opposite feelings of obloquy and detestation.

          "Unhappy sex! when beauty is your snare,
          Exposed to trials, made too frail to bear."

Then, oh! ye daughters of celestial Virtue, point not the scoffing glance at these, her truant
children, as ye pass them by--but pity, and afford them a gleam of cheerful hope: so shall
ye merit the protection of Him whose chief attribute is charity and universal benevolence.
And ye, lords of the creation! commiserate their misfortunes, which owe their origin to the
baseness of the seducer, and the natural depravity of your own sex.

LADIES OF DISTINCTION,

"DANS LE PARTERRE DES IMPURES."

          "Simplex sigillum veri."

          "Nought is there under heav'n's wide hollowness
          That moves more dear, compassion of the mind,
          Than beauty brought t' unworthy wretchedness."

~12~~If ever there was a fellow formed by nature to captivate and conquer the heart of lovely
woman, it is that arch-looking, light-hearted Apollo, Horace Eglantine, with his soul-enlivening
conversational talents, his scraps of poetry, and puns, and fashionable anecdote; his chivalrous
form and noble carriage, joined to a mirth-inspiring countenance and soft languishing blue
eye, which sets half the delicate bosoms that surround him palpitating between hope and fear;
then a glance at his well-shaped leg, or the fascination of an elegant compliment, smilingly
overleaping a pearly fence of more than usual whiteness and regularity, fixes the fair one's
doom; while the young rogue, triumphing in his success, turns on his heel and plays off another
battery on the next pretty susceptible piece of enchanting simplicity that accident may throw
into his way. "Who is that attractive star before whose influential light he at present seems
to bow with adoration?" "A fallen one," said Crony, to whom the question was addressed, as
he rode up the drive in Hyde Park, towards Cumberland-gate, accompanied by Bernard Blackmantle.
"A fallen one" reiterated the Oxonian--"Impossible!" "Why, I have marked the fair daughter
of Fashion myself for the last fortnight constantly in the drive with one of the most superb
~13~~equipages among the ton of the day." "True," responded Crony, "and might have done so
for any time these three years." In London these daughters of Pleasure are like physicians
travelling about to destroy in all sorts of ways, some on foot, others on horseback, and the
more finished lolling in their carriages, ogling and attracting by the witchery of bright eyes;
the latter may, however, very easily be known, by the usual absence of all armorial bearings
upon the panel, the chariot elegant and in the newest fashion, generally dark-coloured, and
lined with crimson to cast a rich glow upon the occupant, and the servants in plain frock liveries,
with a cockade, of course, to imply their mistresses have seen service. I know but of one who
sports any heraldic ornament, and that is the female Giovanni, who has the very appropriate
crest of a serpent coiled, and preparing to spring upon its prey, à la Cavendish. The elegante
in the dark vis, to whom our friend Horace is paying court, is the ci-devant Lady Ros--b--y,
otherwise Clara W----.

By the peer she has a son, and from the plebeian a pension of two hundred pounds per annum:
her origin, like most of the frail sisterhood, is very obscure; but Clara certainly possesses
talents of the first order, and evinces a generosity of disposition to her sisters and family
that is deserving of commendation. In person, she is plump and well-shaped, but of short stature,
with a fine dark eye and raven locks that give considerable effect to an otherwise interesting
countenance. A few years since she had a penchant for the stage, and played repeatedly at one
of the minor theatres, under the name of "The Lady;" a character Clara can, when she pleases,
support with unusual gaieté: instance her splendid parties in Manchester-street, Manchester-square,
where I have seen a coruscation of beauties assembled together that must have made great havoc
in their time among the hearts of the young, the gay, and the generous. Like ~14~~most of her
society, Clara has no idea of prudence, and hence to escape some pressing importunities, she
levanted for a short time to Scotland, but has since, by the liberal advances of her present
delusive, been enabled to quit the interested apprehensions of the Dun family. The swaggering
belle in the green pelisse yonder, on the pavé, is the celebrated courtezan, Mrs. St*pf**d,
of Curzon-street, May-fair. How she acquired her present cognomen I know not, unless it was
for her stopping accomplishment in the polite science of pugilism and modern patter, in both
of which she is a finished proficient, as poor John D------, a dashing savoury chemist, can
vouch for.

On a certain night, she followed this unfaithful swain, placing herself (unknown to him) behind
his carriage, to the house of a rival sister of Cytherea, Mrs. St**h**e, and there enforced,
by divers potent means, due submission to the laws of Constancy and Love; but as such compulsory
measures were not in good taste with the protector's feelings, the contract was soon void,
and the lady once more liberated to choose another and another swain, with a pension of two
hundred pounds per annum, and a well-furnished house into the bargain. She was formerly, and
when first she came out, the chère amie of Tom B-----, who had, in spite of his science recently,
in a short affair at Long's hotel, not much the Best of it. (See plate).

From him she bolted, and enlisted with an officer of the nineteenth Lancers; but not liking
the house of Montague, she obtained the Grant of a furlough, and has since indulged in a plurality
of lovers, without much attention to size, age, persons, or professions. Of her talent in love
affairs, we have given some specimens; and her courage in war can never be doubted after the
formidable attack she recently made upon General Sir John D***e, returning through Hounslow
from a review, from which rencontre she has obtained the appropriate appellation of the Brazen
~15~~ Bellona. A pretty round face, dark hair, and fine bushy eyebrows, are no mean attractions;
independent of which the lady is always upon good terms with herself. The belle whip driving
the cabriolet, with a chestnut horse and four white legs, is the Edgeware Diana Mrs. S***h,
at present engaged in a partnership affair, in the foreign line, with two citizens, Messrs
O. R. and S.; the peepholes at the side of her machine imply more than mere curiosity, and
are said to have been invented by General Ogle, for the use of the ladies when on active service.
The beautiful little Water Lily in the chocolate-coloured chariot, with a languishing blue
eye and alabaster skin, is Mrs. Ha****y, otherwise K**d***k, of Gr--n-street, a great favourite
with all who know her, from the elegance of her manners and the attractions of her person (being
perfect symmetry); at present she is under the special protection of a city stave merchant,
and has the reputation of being very sincere in her attachments.

"You must have been a desperate fellow in your time, Crony," said I, "among the belles of this
class, or you could never have become so familiar with their history." "It is the fashion,"
replied the veteran, "to understand these matters; among the bons vivants of the present day
a fellow would be suspected of chastity, or regarded as uncivilized, who could not run through
the history of the reigning beauties of the times, descanting upon their various charms with
poetical fervor, or illuminating, as he proceeds, with some choice anecdotes of the Paphian
divinities, their protectors and propensities; and to do the fair Citherians justice, they
are not much behindhand with us in that respect, for the whole conversation of the sisterhood
turns upon the figure, fortune, genius, or generosity of the admiring beaux. To a young and
ardent mind, just emerging from scholastic discipline, with feelings uncontaminated by ~16~~fashionable
levities, and a purse equal to all pleasurable purposes, a correct knowledge of the mysteries
of the Citherian principles of astronomy may be of the most essential consequence, not less
in protecting his morals and health than in the preservation of life and fortune. One half
the duels, suicides, and fashionable bankruptcies spring from this polluted source. The stars
of this order rise and fall in estimation, become fixed planets or meteors of the most enchanting
brilliancy, in proportion not to the grace of modesty, or the fascination of personal beauty,
but to the notoriety and number of their amours, and the peerless dignity of their plurality
of lovers.

"Place the goddess of Love on the pedestal of Chastity, in the sacred recesses of the grove
of Health, veiled by virgin Innocence, and robed in celestial Purity, and who among the cameleon
race of fashionable roués would incur the charge of Vandalism, or turn aside to pay devotion
at her shrine? but let the salacious deity of Impurity mount the car of Profligacy, and drive
forth in all the glare of crimson and gold, and a thousand devotees are ready to sacrifice
their honour upon her profligate altars, or chain themselves to her chariot wheels as willing
slaves to worship and adore."

"Let us take another turn up the drive," said I, "for I am willing to confess myself much interested
in this new system of astronomy, and perhaps we may discover a few more of the terrestrial
planets, and observe the stars that move around their frail orbits." "I must first make you
acquainted with the signs of the Paphian zodiac," said Crony; "for every one of these attractions
have their peculiar and appropriate fashionable appellations. I have already introduced you
to the Bang Bantum, Mrs Bertram; the London Leda, Moll Raffles; the Spanish Nun, St. Margurite;
the Sparrow Hawk, Augusta C****e{1}; the Golden

     1 See vol. i.

~17~~Pippin, Mrs. C.; the White Crow, Clara W****; the Brazen Bellona, Mrs. St**f**d; the Edgeware
Diana, Mrs. S**th; and the Water Lily Symmeterian, Ha**l*y--all planets of the first order,
carriage curiosities. Let us now proceed to make further observations. The jolie dame yonder,
in the phaeton, drawn by two fine bays, is called the White Doe, from her first deer protector;
and although somewhat on the decline, she is yet an exhibit of no mean attraction, and a lady
of fortune. Thanks to the liberality of an old hewer of stone, and the talismanic powers of
the golden Ball, deserted by her last swain since his marriage, she now reclines upon the velvet
cushion of Independence, enjoying in the Kilburn retreat, her otium cum dignitate, secure from
the rude winds of adversity, and in the occasional society of a few old friends. The lovely
Thais in the brown chariot, with a fine Roman countenance, dark hair, and sparkling eyes, is
the favourite elect of a well-known whig member; here she passes by the name of the Comic Muse,
the first letter of which will also answer for the leading initial of her theatrical cognomen.
Her, private history is well-known to every son of old Etona who has taken a toodle over Windsor-bridge
on a market-day within the last fifteen years, her parents being market gardeners in the neighbourhood;
and her two unmarried sisters, both fine girls, are equally celebrated with the Bath orange-women
for the neatness of their dress and comeliness of their persons. There is a sprightliness and
good-humour about the Comic Muse that turns aside the shafts of ill-nature; and had she made
her selection more in accordance with propriety, and her own age, she might have escaped our
notice; but, alas!" said Crony, "she forgets that

          'The rose's age is but a day;
          Its bloom, the pledge of its decay,
          Sweet in scent, in colour bright,
          It blooms at morn and fades at night.

~18~~At this moment a dashing little horsewoman trotted by in great style, followed by a servant
in blue and gold livery; her bust was perfection itself, but studded with the oddest pair of
ogles in the world, and Crony assured me (report said) her person was supported by the shortest
pair of legs, for an adult, in Christendom. "That is the queen of the dandysettes," said my
old friend, "Sophia, Selina, or, as she is more generally denominated, Galloping W****y, from
a long Pole, who settled the interest of five thousand upon her for her natural life; she is
since said to have married her groom, with, however, this prudent stipulation, that he is still
to ride behind her in public, and answer all demands in propria persona. She is constantly
to be seen at all masquerades, and may be easily known by her utter contempt for the incumbrance
of decent costume." "How d'ye do? How d'ye do?" said a most elegant creature, stretching forth
her delicate white kid-covered arm over the fenêtre of Lord Hxxxxxxx*h's vis à vis. "Ah! bon
jour, ma chère amie," said old Crony, waving his hand and making one of his best bows in return.
"You are a happy dog," said I, "old fellow, to be upon such pleasant terms with that divinity.
No plebeian blood there, I should think: a peeress, I perceive, by the coronet on the panels."
"A peine cognoist, ou la femme et le melon," responded Crony, "you shall hear. Among the ton
she passes by the name of Vestina the Titan, from her being such a finished tactician in the
campaigns of Venus;. her ordinary appellation is Mrs. St--h--pe: whether this be a nom de guerre
or a nom de terre, I shall not pretend to decide; if we admit that la chose est toute, et que
la nom n'y fait rien, the rest is of no consequence. It would be an intricate task to unravel
the family web of our fashionable frail ones, although that of many frail fashionables stands
high in heraldry. The lady in question, although in 'the sear o' the leaf,' is yet in high
request; 'fat, fair, and forty' shall I say?

~19~~Alas! that would have been more suitable ten years since; but, n'importe, she has the
science to conceal the ravages of time, and is yet considered attractive. No one better understands
the art of intrigue; and she is, moreover, a travelled dame, not deficient in intellect, full
of anecdote; and as conjugation and declension go hand in hand with some men of taste, she
has risen into notice when others usually decline. A sporting colonel is said to have formerly
contributed largely to her comforts, and her tact in matters of business is notorious; about
two hundred per annum she derived from the Stock Exchange, and her present peerless protector
no doubt subscribes liberally. To be brief, Laura has money in the funds, a splendid house,
carriage, gives her grand parties, and lives proportionably expensive and elegant; yet with
all this she has taken care that the age of gold may succeed to the age of brass, that the
retirement of her latter days may not be overclouded by the storms of adversity. She had two
sisters, both gay, who formerly figured on the pavé, Sarah and Louisa; but of late they have
disappeared, report says, to conjugate in private. Turn your eyes towards the promenade," said
Crony, "and observe that constellation of beauties, three in number, who move along le verd
gazon: they are denominated the Red Rose, the Moss Rose, and the Cabbage Rose. The first is
Rose Co*l**d, a dashing belle, who has long figured in high life; her first appearance was
in company with Lord William F***g***ld, by whom she has a child living; from thence we trace
her to the protection of another peer, Lord Ty*****], and from him gradually declining to the
rich relative of a northern baronet, sportive little Jack R*****n, whose favourite lauda finem
she continued for some time; but as the law engrossed rather too much of her protector's affairs,
so the fair engrossed rather too much of the law; whether she has yet given up ~20~~practice
in the King's Bench I cannot determine, but her appearance here signifies that she will accept
a fee from any side; Rose has long since lost every tint of the maiden's blush, and is now
in the full blow of her beauty and maturity, but certainly not without considerable personal
attractions; with some her nom de guerre is Rosa longa, and a wag of the day says, that Rose
is a beauty in spite of her teeth. The Moss Rose has recently changed her cognomen with her
residence, and is now Mrs. F**, of Beaumout-street; she was never esteemed a planet, and may
be now said to have sunk into a star of the second order, a little twinkling light, useful
to assist elderly gentlemen in finding their way to the Paphian temple. The Cabbage Rose is
one of your vulgar beauties, ripe as a peach, and rich in countenance as the ruby: if she has
never figured away with the peerage, she has yet the credit of being entitled to three balls
on her coronet, and an old uncle to support them: she has lately taken a snug box in Park-place,
Regent's-park, and lives in very good style. The belle in the brown chariot, gray horses, and
blue liveries is now the lady of a baronet, and one of three graceless graces, the Elxxxxx's,
who, because their father kept a livery stable, must needs all go to rack: she has a large
family living by Mr. V*l*b***s, whom she left for the honour of her present connexion. That
she is married to the baronet, there is no doubt; and it is but justice to add, she is one
among the many instances of such compromises in fashionable life who are admitted into society
upon sufferance, and falls into the class of demi-respectables. Among the park beaux she is
known by the appellation of the Doldrums her two sisters have been missing some time, and it
is said are now rusticating in Paris." My friend Eglantine had evidently fled away with the
white crow, and the fashionables were rapidly decreasing in the drive, when Crony, whose scent
of ~21~~dinner hour is as staunch as that of an old pointer at game, gave evident symptoms
of his inclination to masticate. "We must take another opportunity to finish our lecture on
the principles of Citherian astronomy," said the old beau, "for as yet we are not half through
the list of constellations. I have a great desire to introduce you to Harriette Wilson and
her sisters, whose true history will prove very entertaining, particularly as the fair writer
has altogether omitted the genuine anecdotes of herself and family in her recently published
memoirs." At dinner we were joined by Horace Eglantine and Bob Transit, from the first of whom
we learned, that a grand fancy ball was to take place at the Argyll Rooms in the course of
the ensuing week, under the immediate direction of four fashionable impures, and at the expense
of General Trinket, a broad-shouldered Milesian, who having made a considerable sum by the
commissariat service, had returned home to spend his Peninsular pennies among the Paphian dames
of the metropolis. For this entertainment we resolved to obtain tickets, and as the ci-devant
lady H***e was to be patroness, Crony assured us there would be no difficulty in that respect,
added to which, he there promised to finish his sketches of the Citherian beauties of the metropolis,
and afford my friend Transit an opportunity of sketching certain portraits both of Paphians
and their paramours.

THE WAKE;

OR,

TEDDY O'RAFFERTY'S LAST APPEARANCE.

A SCENE IN THE HOLY LAND.

~22~~

         'Twas at Teddy O'Rafferty's wake,
          Just to comfort ould Judy, his wife,
          The lads of the hod had a frake.
          And kept the thing up to the life.
          There was Father O'Donahoo, Mr. Delany,
          Pat Murphy the doctor, that rebel O'Shaney,
          Young Terence, a nate little knight o' the hod,
          And that great dust O'Sullivan just out o' quod;
          Then Florence the piper, no music is riper,
          To all the sweet cratures with emerald fatures
          Who came to drink health to the dead.
          Not Bryan Baroo had a louder shaloo
          When he gave up his breath, to that tythe hunter death,
          Than the howl over Teddy's cowld head:
          'Twas enough to have rais'd up a saint.
          All the darlings with whiskey so faint,
          And the lads full of fight, had a glorious night,
          When ould Teddy was wak'd in his shed.
          --Original.

He who has not travelled in Ireland should never presume to offer an opinion upon its natives.
It is not from the wealthy absentees, who since the union have abandoned their countrymen to
wretchedness, for the advancement of their own ambitious views, that we can form a judgment
of the exalted Irish: nor is it from the lowly race, who driven forth by starving penury, crowd
our more prosperous shores, ~23~~that we can justly estimate the true character of the peasantry
of that unhappy country. The Memoirs of Captain Rock may have done something towards removing
the national prejudices of Englishmen; while the frequent and continued agitation of that important
question, the Emancipation of the Catholics, has roused a spirit of inquiry in every worthy
bosom that will much advantage the oppressed, and, eventually, diffuse a more general and generous
feeling towards the Irish throughout civilized Europe. I have been led into this strain of
contemplation, by observing the ridiculous folly and wasteful expenditure of the nobility and
fashionables of Great Britain; who, neglecting their starving tenantry and kindred friends,
crowd to the shores of France and Italy in search of scenery and variety, without having the
slightest knowledge of the romantic beauties and delightful landscapes, which abound in the
three kingdoms of the Rose, the Shamrock, and the Thistle. How much good might be done by the
examples of a few illustrious, noble, and wealthy individuals, making annual visits to Ireland
and Scotland! what a field does it afford for true enjoyment! how superior, in most instances,
the accommodations and security; and how little, if at all inferior, to the scenic attractions
of foreign countries. Then too the gratification of observing the progress of improvement in
the lower classes, of administering to their wants, and consoling with them under their patient
sufferings from oppressive laws, rendered perhaps painfully necessary by the political temperature
of the times or the unforgiving suspicions of the past. But I am becoming sentimental when
I ought to be humorous, contemplative when I should be characteristic, and seriously sententious
when I ought to be playfully satirical. Forgive me, gentle reader, if from the collapse of
the spirit, I have for a moment turned aside from the natural gaiety of my ~24~~style, to give
utterance to the warm feelings of an eccentric but generous heart. But, allons to the wake.

"Plaze ye'r honor," said Barney O'Finn (my groom of the chambers), "may I be axing a holiday
to-night?" "It will be very inconvenient, Barney; but------" "But, your honor's not the jontleman
to refuse a small trate o' the sort," said Barney, anticipating the conclusion of my objection.
There was some thing unusually anxious about the style of the poor fellow's request that made
me hesitate in the refusal. "It's not myself that would be craving the favor, but a poor dead
cousin o' mine, heaven rest his sowl!" "And how can the granting of such a request benefit
your departed relation, Barney?" quoth I, not a little puzzled by the strangeness of the application.
"Sure, that's mighty dare of comprehension, your honor. Teddy O'Rafferty was my own mother's
brother's son, and devil o' like o' him there was in all Kilgobbin: we went to ould Father
O'Rourke's school together when we were spalpeens, and ate our paraters and butter-milk out
o' the same platter; many's the scrape we've been in together: bad luck to the ould schoolmaster,
for he flogged all the larning out o' poor Teddy, and all the liking for't out of Barney O'Finn,
that's myself, your honor--so one dark night we took advantage of the moon, and having joined
partnership in property put it all into a Limerick silk handkerchief, with which we made the
best of our way to Dublin, travelling stage arter stage by the ould-fashioned conveyance, Pat
Adam's ten-toed machine. Many's the drap we got on the road to drive away care. All the wide
world before us, and all the fine family estate behind,--pigs, poultry, and relations,--divil
a tenpenny did we ever touch since. It's not your honor that will be angry to hear a few family
misfortins," said Barney, hesitating to proceed with his narration, "Give me my hat, fellow,"
said ~25~~I, "and don't torture me with your nonsense."-- "May be it an't nonsense your honor
means?" "And why not, sirrah?"--"Bekase it's not in your nature to spake light o' the dead."
Up to this point, my attention had been divided between the Morning Chronicle which lay upon
my breakfast table, and Barney's comical relation; a glance at the narrator, however, as he
finished the last sentence, convinced me that I ought to have treated him with more feeling.
He was holding my hat towards me, when the pearly drop of affliction burst uncontrollably forth,
and hung on the side of the beaver, like a sparkling crystal gem loosed from the cavern's roof,
to rest upon the jasper stone beneath. I would have given up my Mastership of Arts to have
recalled that word nonsense: I was so touched with the poor fellow's pathos.--" Shall I tell
your onor the partikilars?" "Ay, do, Barney, proceed."--"Well, your onor, we worked our way
to London togither--haymaking and harvesting: 'Taste fashions the man' was a saw of ould Father
O'Rourke's; 'though divil a taste had he, but for draining the whiskey bottle and bating the
boys, bad luck to his mimory! 'Is it yourself?' said I, to young squire O'Sullivan, from Scullanabogue,
whom good fortune threw in my way the very first day I was in London.--'Troth, and it is, Barney,'
said he: 'What brings you to the sate of government?' 'I'm seeking sarvice and fortune, your
onor,' said I. 'Come your ways, then, my darling,' said he; and, without more to do, he made
me his locum tenens, first clerk, messenger, and man of all work to a Maynooth Milesian. There
was onor enough in all conscience for me, only it was not vary profitable. For, altho' my master
followed the law, the law wouldn't follow him, and he'd rather more bags than briefs:--the
consequence was, I had more banyan days than the man in the wilderness. Divil a'care, I got
a character by my conduct, and a good place when I left him, as your ~26~~govonor can testify.
As for poor Teddy, divil a partikle of taste had he for fashionable life, but a mighty pratty
notion of the arts, so he turned operative arkitekt; engaged himself to a layer of bricks,
and skipped nimbly up and down a five story ladder with a long-tailed box upon his shoulder--pace
be to his ashes! He was rather too fond of the crature--many's the slip he had for his life--one
minute breaking a jest, and the next breaking a joint; till there wasn't a sound limb to his
body. Arrah, sure, it was all the same to Teddy--only last Monday, he was more elevated than
usual, for he had just reached the top of the steeple of one of the new churches with a three
gallon can of beer upon his knowledge-box, and, perhaps a little too much of the crature inside
o! it. 'Shout, Teddy, to the honour of the saint,' said the foreman of the works (for they
had just completed the job). Poor Teddy's religion got the better of his understanding, for
in shouting long life to the dedicatory saint, he lost his own--missed his footing, and pitched
over the scaffold like an odd chimney-pot in a high wind, and came down smash to the bottom
with a head as flat as a bump. Divil a word has he ever spake since; for when they picked him
up, he was dead as a Dublin bay herring--and now he lies in his cabin in Dyot-street, St. Giles,
as stiff as a poker,--and to-night, your onor, we are going to wake him, poor sowl! to smoke
a pipe, and spake an horashon over his corpse before we put him dacently to bed with the shovel.
Then, there's his poor widow left childless, and divil a rap to buy paraters wid--bad luck
to the eye that wouldn't drap a tear to his mimory, and cowld be the heart that refuses to
comfort his widow!" Here poor Barney could no longer restrain his feelings, and having concluded
the family history, blubbered outright. It was a strange mixture of the ludicrous and the sorrowful;
but told with such an artless simplicity and genuine traits of feeling, that I would have defied
the most ~27~~volatile to have felt uninterested with the speaker. "You shall go, by all means,
Barney," said I: "and here is a trifle to comfort the poor widow with." "The blessings of the
whole calendar full on your onor!" responded the grateful Irishman. What a scene, thought I,
for the pencil of my friend Bob Transit!"Could a stranger visit the place," I inquired, without
molestation or the charge of impertinence, Barney?" "Divil a charge, your onor; and as to impertinence,
a wake's like a house-warming, where every guest is welcome." With this assurance, I apprised
Barney of my intention to gratify curiosity, and to bring a friend with me; carefully noted
down the direction, and left the grateful fellow to pursue his course.

The absurdities of funeral ceremonies have hitherto triumphed over the advances of civilization,
and in many countries are still continued with almost as much affected solemnity and ridiculous
parade as distinguished the early processions of the Pagans, Heathens, and Druids. The honours
bestowed upon the dead may inculcate a good moral lesson upon the minds of the living, and
teach them so to act in this life that their cold remains may deserve the after-exordium of
their friends; but, in most instances, funeral pomp has more of worldly vanity in it than true
respect, and it is no unusual circumstance in the meaner ranks of life, for the survivors to
abridge their own comforts by a wasteful expenditure and useless parade, with which they think
to honour the memory of the dead. The Egyptians carry this folly perhaps to the most absurd
degree; their catacombs and splendid tombs far outrivalling the habitations of their princes,
together with their expensive mode of embalming, are with us matters of curiosity, and often
induce a sacrilegious transfer of some distinguished mummy to the museums of the connoisseur.
The Athenians, Greeks, and Romans, had each their peculiar funeral ceremonies in the exhumation,
~28~~sacrifices, and orations performed on such occasions; and much of the present customs
of the Romish church are, no doubt, derivable from and to be traced to these last-mentioned
nations. In the present times, no race of people are more superstitious in their veneration
for the ancient customs of their country and funeral rites, than the lower orders of the Irish,
and that folly is often carried to a greater height during their domicile in this country than
when residing at home.

It was about nine o'clock at night when Eglantine, Transit, and myself sallied forth to St.
Giles's in search of the wake, or, as Bob called it, on a crusade to the holy land. Formerly,
such a visit would have been attended with great danger to the parties making the attempt,
from the number of desperate characters who inhabited the back-slums lying in the rear of Broad-street:
where used to be congregated together, the most notorious thieves, beggars, and bunters of
the metropolis, amalgamated with the poverty and wretchedness of every country, but more particularly
the lower classes of Irish, who still continue to exist in great numbers in the neighbourhood.
Here was formerly held in a night-cellar, the celebrated Beggars' Club, at which the dissolute
Lord Barrymore and Colonel George Hanger, afterwards Lord Coleraine, are said to have often
officiated as president and vice-president, attended by their profligate companions, and surrounded
by the most extraordinary characters of the times; the portraits and biography of whom may
be seen in Smith's 'Vagabondiana,' a very clever and highly entertaining work. It was on this
spot that George Parker collected his materials for 'Life's Painter of Variegated Characters,'
and among its varieties, that Grose and others obtained the flash and patter which form the
cream of their humorous works. Formerly, the Beggars' ordinary, held in a cellar was a scene
worthy ~29~~of the pencil of a Hogarth or a Cruikshank; notorious impostors, professional paupers,
ballad-singers, and blind fiddlers might here be witnessed carousing on the profits of mistaken
charity, and laughing in their cups at the credulity of mankind; but the police have now disturbed
their nightly orgies, and the Mendicant Society ruined their lucrative calling. The long table,
where the trenchers consisted of so many round holes turned out in the plank, and the knives,
forks, spoons, candle-sticks, and fire-irons all chained to their separate places, is no longer
to be seen. The night-cellar yet exists, where the wretched obtain a temporary lodging and
straw bed at twopence per head; but the Augean stable has been cleansed of much of its former
impurities, and scarce a vestige remains of the disgusting depravity of former times.

A little way up Dyot-street, on the right hand from Holborn, we perceived the gateway to which
Barney had directed me, and passing under it into a court filled with tottering tenements of
the most wretched appearance, we were soon attracted to the spot we sought, by the clamour
of voices apparently singing and vociferating together. The faithful Barney was ready posted
at the door to receive us, and had evidently prepared the company to show more than usual respect.
An old building or shed adjoining the deceased's residence, which had been used for a carpenter's
shop, was converted for the occasion from its general purpose to a melancholy hall of mourning.
At one end of this place was the corpse of the deceased, visible to every person from its being
placed on a bed in a sitting posture, beneath a tester of ragged check-furniture; large sheets
of white linen were spread around the walls in lieu of tapestries, and covered with various
devices wrought into fantastic images of flowers, angels, and seraphim. A large, fresh-gathered
posy in the bosom of the deceased had a most striking effect, when contrasted ~30~~with the
pallidness of death; over the lower parts of the corpse was spread a counterpane, covered with
roses, marigolds, and sweet-smelling flowers; whilst on his breast reposed the cross, emblematical
of the dead man's faith; and on a table opposite, at the extreme end, stood an image of our
Redeemer, before which burned four tall lights in massive candlesticks, lent by the priest
upon such occasions to give additional solemnity to the scene. There is something very awful
in the contemplation of death, from which not even the strongest mind can altogether divest
itself. But at a wake the solemn gloom which generally pervades the chamber of a lifeless corpse
is partially removed by the appearance of the friends of the deceased arranged around, drinking,
singing, and smoking tobacco in profusion. Still there was something unusually impressive in
observing the poor widow of O'Rafferty, seated at the feet of her deceased lord with an infant
in her arms, and all the appearance of a heart heavily charged with despondency and grief.
An old Irishwoman, seated at the side of the bed, was making the most violent gesticulations,
and audibly calling upon the spirit of the departed "to see how they onor'd his mimory," raising
the cross before her, while two or three others came up to the head, uttered a short prayer,
and then sat down to drink his sowl out of purgation. (See Plate.)

But the most extraordinary part of the ceremony was the howl, or oration spoken over the dead
man by a rough-looking, broad-shouldered Emeralder, who descanted upon his virtues as if he
had been an hero of the first magnitude, and invoked every saint in the calendar to free the
departed from perdition. For some time decorum was pretty well preserved; but on my friends
Bob Transit and Horace Eglantine sending Barney out for a whole gallon of whiskey, and a proportionate
quantity of pipes and tobacco, the dull scene of silent meditation ~31~~gave way to sports
and spree, more accordant with their feelings; and the kindred of the deceased were too familiar
with such amusements to consider them in any degree disrespectful. There is a volatile something
in the Irish character that strongly partakes of the frivolity of our Gallic neighbours; and
it is from this feature that we often find them gay amidst the most appalling wants, and humorous
even in the sight of cold mortality. A song was soon proposed, and many a ludicrous stave sung,
as the inspiring cup made the circle of the company. "Luke Caffary's Kilmainham Minit," an
old flash chant, and "The Night before Larry was stretched," were among the most favourite
ditties of the night. A verse from the last may serve to show their peculiar character.

          "The night before Larry was stretch'd,

          The boys they all paid him a visit;
          And bit in their sacks too they fetch'd,

          They sweated their duds till they riz it.
          For Larry was always the lad,

          When a friend was condemn'd to the squeezer.
          But he'd fence all the foss that he had

          To help a poor friend to a sneezer,
          And moisten his sowl before he died."

Ere eleven o'clock had arrived, the copious potations of whiskey and strong beer, joined to
the fumes of the tobacco, had caused a powerful alteration in the demeanor of the assembled
group, who now became most indecorously vociferous. "By the powers of Poll Kelly!" said the
raw-boned fellow who had howled the lament over the corpse, "I'd be arter making love to the
widow mysel', only it mightn't be altogether dacent before Teddy's put out o' the way." "You
make love to the widow!" responded the smart-looking Florence M'Carthy; "to the divil I pitch
you, you bouncing bogtrotter! it's myself alone that will have that onor, bekase Teddy O'Rafferty
wished me to take his wife as a legacy. 'It's all I've got, Mr. Florence,' ~32~~said he to
me one day, 'to lave behind for the redemption of the small trifle I owe you.'" "It aint the
like o' either of you that will be arter bamboozling my cousin, Mrs. Judy O'Rafferty, into
a blind bargain," said Barney O'Finn; in whose noddle the whiskey began to fumigate with the
most valorous effect. "You're a noble-spirited fellow, Barney," said Horace Eglantine, who
was using his best exertions to produce a row. "At them again, Barney, and tell them their
conduct is most indecent." Thus stimulated and prompted, Barney was not tardy in re-echoing
the charge; which, as might have been expected, produced an instantaneous explosion and general
battle. In two minutes the company were thrown into the most appalling scene of confusion--chairs
and tables upset, bludgeons, pewter pots, pipes, glasses, and other missiles flying about in
all directions, until broken heads and shins were as plentiful as black eyes, and there was
no lack of either--women screaming and children crying, making distress more horrible. In this
state of affairs, Bob Transit had climbed up and perched himself upon a beam to make observations;
while the original fomenter of the strife, that mad wag Eglantine, had with myself made our
escape through an aperture into the next house, and having secured our persons from violence
were enabled to become calm observers of the affray, by peeping through the breach by which
we had entered. In the violence of the struggle, poor Teddy O'Rafferty was doomed to experience
another upset before his remains were consigned to the tomb; for just at the moment that a
posse of watchmen and night-constables arrived to put an end to the broil, such was the panic
of the assailants that in rushing towards the bed to conceal themselves from the charlies,
they tumbled poor Teddy head over heels to the floor of his shed, leaving his head's antipodes
sticking up where his head should have been; a ~33~~circumstance that more than any thing else
contributed to appease the inflamed passions of the group, who, shocked at the sacrilegious
insult they had committed, immediately sounded a parley, and united to reinstate poor Teddy
O'Rafferty in his former situation. This was the signal for Horace and myself to proceed round
to the front door, and pretending we were strangers excited by curiosity, succeeded, by a little
well-timed flattery and a small trifle to drink our good healths, in freeing the assailants
from all the horrors of a watch-house, and eventually of restoring peace and unanimity. It
was now past midnight; leaving therefore poor Barney O'Finn to attend mass, and pay the last
sad tribute to his departed relative, on the morning of the morrow we once more bent our steps
towards home, laughing as we went at the strange recollections of the wake, the row, and last
appearance of Teddy O'Rafferty.{1}

REQUIESCAT IN PACE.

     1 As the reader might not think this story complete without
     gome account of the concluding ceremonies, I have
     ascertained from Barney that his cousin Teddy was quietly
     borne on the shoulders of his friends to the church of St.
     Paneras, where he was safely deposited with his mother-
     earth, a bit of a bull, by the by; and after the mourners
     had made three circles round his ashes, and finished the
     ceremony by a most delightful howl and prayers said over the
     crossed spades, they all retired peaceably home, moderately
     laden with the juice of the crature.

THE CYPRIAN'S BALL,

OR

Sketches of Characters

AT THE VENETIAN CARNIVAL.

Scene.--Argyll Rooms.

~34~~

"Hymen ushers the lady Astrea,

          The jest took hold of Latona the cold,
          Ceres the brown, with bright Cytherea,
          Thetis the wanton, Bellona the bold;
          Shame-faced Aurora
          With witty Pandora,
          And Maia with Flora did company bear;"
          (And many 'tis stated
          Went there to be mated,
          Who all their lives have been hunting the fair. )

     Blackmantle, Transit, Eglantine, and Crony's Visit to the
     Venetian Carnival--Exhibits--Their Char-acters drawn from
     the Life--General Trinket, the M.C.--Crony's singidar
     Anecdote of the great Earl of Chesterfield, and Origin of
     the Debouchettes--The Omissions in the Wilson Memoirs
     supplied--Biographical Reminiscences of the Amiable Mrs.
     Debouchette--Harriette and lier Sisters--Amy--Mary--Fanny--
     Julia--Sophia--Charlotte and Louisa--Paphians and their
     Paramours--Peers and Plebeians--The Bang Bantam--London Leda
     --Spanish Nun--Sparrow Hawk--Golden Pippin--White Crow--
     Brazen Bellona--Edgeware Diana

~35~~

     Water Lily--White Doe--Comic Muse--Queen of the
     Dansysettes--Vestina the Titan--The Red Rose--Moss Rose and
     Cabbage Rose--The Doldrum Stars of Erin--Wren of Paradise--
     Queen of the Amazons--Old Pomona--Venus Mendicant--Venus
     Callypiga--Goddess of the Golden Locks--Mocking Bird--Net
     Perdita--Napoleon Venus--Red Swan--Black Swan--Blue-eyed
     Luna--Tartar Sultana The Bit of Rue--Brompton Ceres--
     Celestina Conway--Lucy Bertram--Water Wagtail--Tops and
     Bottoms--The Pretenders--The Old Story--Lady of the Priory--
     Little White Morose--Queen of Trumps--Giovanni the Syren,
     with Ileal Names "unexed--Original Portraits and Anecdotes
     of the Dukes of M------and D------, Marquisses II------ and
     II ----, Earls   W------,   F------,  and  C------,   Lords
     P------,   A------,   M------,   and N------,   llonourables
     B------c,  L------s, and F------s--General Trinket--Colonel
     Caxon--Messrs.  II--b--h,  R------, D------, and B------,
     and other Innumerables.

It was during the fashionable season of the year 1818, when Augusta Corri, ci-devant Lady Hawke,{1}
shone forth under her newly-acquired title a planet of the first order, that a few amorous
noblemen and wealthy dissolutes, ever on the qui vive for novelty, projected and sanctioned
the celebrated Venetian carnival given at the Argyll-rooms under the patronage of her ladyship
and four other equally celebrated courtezans. Of course, the female invitations were confined
exclusively to the sisterhood, but restricted to the planets and stars of Cytherea, the carriage
curiosities, and fair impures of the most dashing order and notoriety; and never were the revels
of Terpsichore kept up with more spirit, or graced with a more choice collection of beautiful,
ripe, and wanton fair ones.

     1 In page 315 of our first volume we have given a brief
     biographical sketch of her ladyship and her amours.

~36~~Nor was there any lack of distinguished personages of the other sex; almost all the leading
roués of the day being present, from Lord p******** Tom B***, including many of the highest
note in the peerage, court calendar, and army list. The elegance and superior arrangement of
this Cytherean fête was in the most exquisite taste; and such was the number of applications
for admissions, and the reported splendour of the preparations, that great influence in a certain
court was necessary to insure a safe passport into the territories of the Paphian goddess.
The enormous expense of this act of folly has been estimated at upwards of two thousand pounds;
and many are the dupes who have been named as bearing proportions of the same, from a royal
duke to a Hebrew star of some magnitude in the city; but truth will out, and the ingenuity
of her ladyship in raising the wind has never been disputed, if it has ever been equalled,
by any of her fair associates. The honour of the arrangement and a good portion of the expense
were, undoubtedly, borne by a broad-shouldered Milesian commissary-general, who has since figured
among the ton under the quaint cognomen of General Trinket, from his penchant for filling his
pockets with a variety of cheap baubles, for the purpose of making presents to his numerous
Dulcineas; a trifling extravagance, which joined to his attachment to rouge et noir has since
consigned him to durance vile. The general is, however, certainly a fellow of some address,
and, as a master of the ceremonies, deserves due credit for the superior genius he on that
occasion displayed.

During dinner, Crony had been telling us a curious anecdote of the great Earl of Chesterfield
and Miss Debouchette, the grandmother of the celebrated courtezans, Harriette Wilson and sisters.
"At one of the places of public entertainment at the Hague, a very beautiful girl of the name
of Debouchette, who ~37~~acted as limonadière, had attracted the notice of a party of English
noblemen, who were all equally anxious to obtain so fair a prize. Intreaties, promises of large
settlements, and every species of lure that the intriguers could invent, had been attempted
and played off without the slightest success; the fair limonadière was proof against all their
arts. In this state of affairs arrived the then elegant and accomplished Earl of Chesterfield,
certainly one of the most attractive and finished men of his time, but, without doubt, equally
dissipated, and notorious for the number of his amours. Whenever a charming girl in the humbler
walks of life becomes the star of noble attraction and the reigning toast among the roués of
the day, her destruction may be considered almost inevitable. The amorous beaux naturally inflame
the ardour of each other's desires by their admiration of the general object of excitement;
until the honour of possessing such a treasure becomes a matter of heroism, a prize for which
the young and gay will perform the most unaccountable prodigies, and, like the chivalrous knights
of old, sacrifice health, fortune, and eventually life, to bear away in triumph the fair conqueror
of hearts. Such was the situation of Miss Debouchette, when the Earl of Chesterfield, whose
passions had been unusually inflamed by the current reports of the lady's beauty, found himself
upon inspection that her attractions were irresistible, but that it would require no unusual
skill to break down and conquer the prudence and good sense with which superior education had
guarded the mind of the fair limonadière. To a man of gallantry, obstacles of the most imposing
import are mere chimeras, and readily fall before the ardour of his impetuosity; 'faint heart
never won fair lady,' is an ancient but trite proverb, that always encourages the devotee.
The earl had made a large bet that he would carry off the lady. In ~38~~England, among the
retiring and the most modest of creation's lovely daughters, his success in intrigues had become
proverbial; yet, for a long time, was he completely foiled by the fair Debouchette. No specious
pretences, nor the flattering attentions of the most polished man in Europe, could induce the
lady to depart from the paths of prudence and of virtue; every artifice to lure her into the
snare of the seducer had been tried and found ineffectual, and his lordship was about to retire
discomfited and disgraced from the scene of his amorous follies, with a loss of some thousands,
the result of his rashness and impetuosity, when an artifice suggested itself to the fertile
brain of his foreign valet, who was an experienced tactician in the wars of Venus. This was
to ascertain, if possible, in what part of the mansion the lady slept; to be provided with
a carriage and four horses, and in the dead of the night, with the assistance of two ruffians,
to raise a large sheet before her window dipt in spirits, which being lighted would burn furiously,
and then raising the cry of fire, the fair occupant would, of course, endeavour to escape;
when the lover would have nothing more to do than watch his opportunity, seize her person,
and conveying it to the carriage in waiting, drive off secure in his victory. The scheme was
put in practice, and succeeded to the full extent of the projector's wishes; but the affair,
which made considerable noise at the time, and was the subject of some official remonstrances,
had nearly ended in a more serious manner. The brother of the lady was an officer in the army,
and both the descendants of a poor but ancient family; the indignity offered to his name, and
the seduction of his sister, called forth the retributive feelings of a just revenge; he sought
out the offender, challenged him, but gave him the option of redeeming his sister's honour
and his own by marriage. Alas! that was impossible; the earl was already engaged. A meeting
took place, ~39~~when, reflection and good sense having recovered their influence over the
mind of the dissipated lover, he offered every atonement in his power, professed a most unlimited
regard for the lady, suggested that his destruction would leave her, in her then peculiar state,
exposed to indigence, proposed to protect her, and settle an annuity of two hundred pounds
per annum upon her for her life; and thus circumstanced the brother acceded, and the affair
was, by this interposition of the seconds, amicably arranged. There are those yet living who
remember the fair limonadière first coming to this country, and they bear testimony to her
superior attractions. The lady lived for some years in a state of close retirement, under the
protection of the noble earl, in the neighbourhood of Chelsea, and the issue of that connexion
was a natural son, Mr. Debouchette, whom report states to be the father of Harriette Wilson
and her sisters.

          'Ere man's corruptions made him wretched, he
          Was born most noble, who was born most free.'
          --Otway.

So thought young Debouchette; for a more wild and giddy fellow.in early life has seldom figured
among the medium order of society. Whether the mother of the Cyprians was really honoured with
the ceremony of the ritual, I have no means of knowing," said Crony; "but I well remember the
lady, before these her beauteous daughters had trodden the slippery paths of pleasure: there
was a something about her that is undefinable in language, but conveys to the mind impressions
of no very pure principles of morality; a roving eye, salacious person, and swaggering carriage,
with a most inviting condescension, always particularized the elder silk-stocking grafter of
Chelsea, while yet the fair offspring of her house were lisping infants, innocent and beautiful
as playful lambs. Debouchette himself was a right jolly fellow, careless of domestic ~40~~happiness,
and very fond of his bottle; and indeed that was excusable, as during a long period of his
life he was concerned in the wine trade. To the conduct and instructions of the mother the
daughters are indebted for their present share of notoriety, with all the attendant infamy
that attaches itself to Harriette and her sisters:--and this perhaps is the reason why Mrs.
Rochford, alias Harriette Wilson, so liberally eulogises, in her Memoirs, a parent whose purity
of principle is so much in accordance with the exquisite delicacy of her accomplished daughter.
As the girls grew up, they were employed, Amy and Harriette, at their mother's occupation,
the grafting of silk stockings, while the junior branches of the family were operative clear
starchers, as the old board over the parlour window used to signify, which Brummel would facetiously
translate into getters up of fine linen, when Petersham did him the honour of driving him past
the door, that he might give his opinion upon the rising merits of the family, who, like fragrant
exotics, were always placed at the window by their judicious parent, to excite the attention
of the curious. But, allons" said Crony, "we shall be late at the carnival, and I would not
miss the treat of such an assemblage for the honour of knighthood."

A very few minutes brought Transit, Eglantine, Crony, and myself, within the vortex of this
most seductive scene. Waltzing was the order of the night--

          "Endearing waltz! to thy more melting tune
          Bow Irish jig and ancient rigadoon;
          Scotch reels avaunt! and country dance forego
          Your future claims to each fantastic toe.
          Waltz--Waltz alone both legs and arms demands,
          Liberal of feet and lavish of her hands.
          Hands, which may freely range in public sight,
          Where ne'er before--but--pray 'put out the light.'"

A coruscation of bright eyes and beauteous forms shed a halo of delight around, that must have
warmed the cyprian's ball ~41~~the heart and animated the pulse of the coldest stoic in Christendom.
The specious M. C, General O'M***a, introduced us in his best style, quickly bowing each of
us into the graces of some fascinating fair, than whom

          "Not Cleopatra on her galley's deck
          Display'd so much of leg or more of neck."

For myself, I had the special honour of being engaged to the Honourable Mrs. J-- C******y,
otherwise Padden, who, whatever may have been her origin,{2} has certainly acquired the ease
and elegance of

     2 Mrs. Padden is said to have been originally a servant-maid
     at Plymouth, and the victim of early seduction.    When very
     young,

coming to London with her infant in search of a Captain D----- in the D--------e Militia, her
first but inconstant swain, chance threw her in her abandoned condition into the way of Colonel
C-----, who was much interested by her tale of sorrow, and more perhaps by her then lovely
person, to obtain possession of which, he took a house for her, furnished it, and (as the phrase
is) set her up. How long the duke's aide-de-camp continued the favourite lover is not of any
consequence; but both parties are known to have been capricious in affaires de cour. Her next
acknowledged protector was the light-hearted George D-----d, then a great gun in the fashionable
world: to him succeeded an amorous thane, the Irish Earl of F-----e; and when his lordship,
satiated by possession, withdrew his eccentric countenance, Lord Mo--f--d succeeded to the
vacant couch. The Venetian masquerade is said to have produced a long carnival to this belle
brunette, who seldom kept Lent; and who hero met, for the first time, a now noble Marquess,
then Lord Y--------, to whose liberality she was for some time indebted for a very splendid
establishment; but the precarious existence of such connexions is proverbial, and Mrs. Padden
has certainly had her share of fatal experience. Her next paramour was a diamond of the first
water, but no star, a certain dashing jeweller, Mr. C-----, whose charmer she continued only
until kind fortune threw in her way her present constant Jack. With the hoy-day of the blood,
the fickleness of the heart ceases; and Mrs. Padden is now in the "sear o' the leaf," and somewhat
passée with the town. It does therefore display good judgment in the lady to endeavour, by
every attention and correct conduct, to preserve an attachment that has now existed for some
considerable time. ~42~~Indeed it is hardly possible to find a more conversational or attractive
woman, or one less free from the vulgarity which usually accompanies ladies of her caste. With
this fair I danced a waltz, and then danced off to my friend Crony, who had been excused a
display of agility on the score of age, and from whom I anticipated some interesting anecdotes
of the surrounding stars. (See Plate.)

The Montagues, five sisters, all fine women, and celebrated as the stars of Erin, shone forth
on this occasion with no diminished ray of their accustomed brilliancy; Mrs. Drummond, otherwise
H--n Dr--y Ba--y, Me--t--o, or Bulkly, the last being the only legal cognomen of the fair,
led the way, followed by Maria Cross, otherwise Latouche, Matilda Chatterton, Isabella Cummins,
and Amelia Hamilton, all ladies of high character in the court of Cytherea, whose amours, were
I to attempt them, would exceed in volumes, if not in interest, the chronicles of their native
isle. Among the most interesting of the fairy group was the beautiful Louisa Rowley, since
married to Lord L**c**les, and that charming little rosebud, the captivating Josephine, who,
although a mere child, was introduced under the special protection of the celebrated Mr. B***,
who has since been completely duped by the little intriguante, as also was hep second lover
Lord p********? who succeeded in the lady's favour afterwards; but from whom she fled to Lord
H****t, since whose death, an event which occurred in Paris, I hear she has reformed, and is
now following the example of an elder sister, by preparing herself for the stage. "Who is that
dashing looking brunette in the turban, that is just entering the room?" inquired Transit,
who appeared to be mightily taken with the fair incognita. "That lady, with the mahogany skin
and piquant appearance, is the favourite mistress of the poor Duke of Ma**b****h," responded
Crony, "and is no other than ~43~~the celebrated Poll-----Pshaw! everybody has heard of the
Queen of the Amazons, a title given to the lady, in honour, as I suppose, of his grace's fighting
ancestor. Poll is said to be a great voluptuary; but at any rate she cannot be very extravagant,
that is, if she draws all her resources from her protector's present purse. Do you observe
that jolie dame yonder sitting under the orchestra? that is the well-known Nelly Mansell, of
Crawford-street, called the old Pomona, from the richness of her first fruits. Nelly has managed
her affairs with no trifling share of prudence, and although in the decline of life, she is
by no means in declining circumstances. H**re the banker married her niece, and the aunt's
cash-account is said to be a very comfortable expectancy.

The elegante waltzing so luxuriantly with H------ B------ H------ is the lovely Emma Richardson,
sometime since called Standish or Davison, a Cytherean of the very first order, and the sister
planet to the equally charming Ellen Hanbury, otherwise Bl-----g-----ve, constellations of
the utmost brilliancy, very uncertain in their appearance, and equally so, if report speaks
truth, in their attachment to either Jupiter, Mars, Vulcan, or Apollo. The first is denominated
Venus Mendicant, from her always pleading poverty to her suitors, and thus artfully increasing
their generosity towards her. Sister Ellen has obtained the appellation of Venus Callipyga,
from her elegant form and generally half-draped appearance in public. Do you perceive the swarthy
amazon waddling along yonder, whom the old Earl of W-----d appears to be eyeing with no little
anticipation of delight? that is a lady with a very ancient and most fish-like flavor, odoriferous
in person as the oily female Esquimaux, or the more fragrant feminine inhabitants of Russian
Tartary and the Crimea; she has with some of her admirers obtained the name of Dolly Drinkwater,
from her known dislike to any ~44~~thing stronger than pure French Brandy. Her present travelling
cognomen is Mrs. Sp**c*r, otherwise Black Moll; and a wag of the day, who is rather notorious
for the variety of his taste, has recently insisted upon re-christening her by the attractive
nom de guerre of Nux Vomica. The little goddess of the golden locks, dancing with a well-known
roué, is Fanny My*rs, a very efficient partner in the dance, and if report be true not less
engaging in the sacred mysteries of Cytherea." It would fill the ample page to relate the varied
anecdote with which Crony illustrated, as he proceeded to describe the Scyllo and Charybdes
of the unwary and the gay; who in their voyage through life are lured by the syrens of sweet
voice, and the Pyrrhas of sweet lip, the Cleopatras of modern times, the conquerors of hearts,
and the voluptuous rioters in pleasurable excesses, of those of whom Byron has sung,--

         "Round all the confines of the yielding waist,
         The strangest hand may wander undisplaced.
                  *   *   *
         Till some might marvel with the modest Turk,
         If 'nothing follows all this palming work.'"

To draw all the portraits who figured in the fascinating scene of gay delight would be a task
of almost equal magnitude with the Herculean labours, and one which in attempting, I fear some
of my readers may censure me for already dwelling too long upon: but let them remember, I am
a professed painter of real life, not the inventor or promoter of these delectable nocte Attici
and depraved orgies; that in faithfully narrating scenes and describing character, the object
of the author and artist is to show up vice in all its native deformity; that being known,
it may be avoided, and being exposed, despised. But I must crave permission to extend my notice
of the Cythereans to a few more characters, ere yet the mirth-inspiring notes of the band have
ceased to vibrate, or the graceful ~45~~fair ones to trip it lightly on fantastic toe; this
done, I shall perhaps take a peep into the supper-room, drink Champagne, and pick the wing
of a chicken while I whisper a few soft syllables into the ear of the nearest elegante; and
then--gentle reader, start not--then-----

          "The breast thus publicly resign'd to man
          In private may resist him--if it can."

But here the curtain shall drop upon all the fairy sirens who lead the young heart captive
in their silken chains; and the daughters of pleasure and the sons of profligacy may practise
the mysteries of Cytherea in private, undisturbed by the pen of the satirist or the pencil
of the humorist.

"The scandalizing group in close conference in the left-hand corner, behind Lord William Lenox
and another dashing ensign in the guards, is composed," said Crony, "of Mrs. Nixon, the ci-devant
Mrs. Baring, Nugent's old.flame, Mrs. Christopher Harrison, the two sisters, Mesdames Gardner
and Peters, and the well-known Kitty Stock, all minor constellations, mostly on the decline,
and hence full of envious jealousy at the attention paid by the beaux to the more attractive
charms of the newly discovered planets, the younger sisterhood of the convent." "If we could
but get near enough to overhear their conversation," said Transit, "we should, no doubt, obtain
possession of a few rich anecdotes of the Paphians and their paramours." "I have already enough
of the latter," said I, "to fill a dozen albums, without descending to the meanness of becoming
a listener. Amorous follies are the least censurable of the sins of men, when they are confined
to professed courtezans. The heartless conduct of the systematic seducer demands indignation;
but the trifling peccadillos of the sons of fortune and the stars of fashion may be passed
by, without any serious personal exposure, since time, ~46~~cash, and constitution are the
three practising physicians who generally effect a radical cure, without the aid of the satirist.
But come, Crony, you must give us the nom de guerre of the last-mentioned belles: you have
hitherto distinguished all the Cythereans by some eccentric appellation; let us therefore have
the list complete." "By all means, gentlemen," replied the old beau: "if I must stand godfather
to the whole fraternity of Cyprians, I think I ought, at least, to have free access to every
convent in Christendom; but I must refer to my tablets, for I keep a regular entry of all the
new appearances, or I should never remember half their designations. Mrs. N------has the harmonious
appellation of the mocking bird, from her silly habit of repeating every word you address to
her. Mrs. B------is called the New Perdita, from a royal conquest she once made, but which
we have only her own authority for believing; at any rate, she is known to be fond of a New-gent,
and the title may on that account be fairly her own. Mrs. C-----H------ has the honour of being
distinguished by the appropriate name of the Napoleon Venus, from the similarity of her contour
with the countenance of that great man.

The two sisters, Mesdames G------and P------, are well known by the flattering distinctions
of the red and the black Swan, from the colour of their hair and the stateliness of their carriage;
and Kitty Stock has the poetical cognomen of blue-eyed Lima. Now, you have nearly the whole
vocabulary of love's votaries," said old Crony; "and be sure, young gentlemen, you profit by
the precepts of experience; for not one of these frail fair ones but in her time has made as
many conquests as Wellington, and caused perhaps as much devastation among the sons of men
as any hero in the world. But a new light breaks in upon us," said Crony, "in the person of
Mrs. Simmons, the Tartar sultana, whom you may observe conversing with Lords H------d and P-----m
in the centre of the room. Poor N--g--nt the cyprian's ball ~47~~will long remember her prowess
in battle, when the strength of her passion had nearly brought matters to a point, and that
not a very tender one; but the swain cut the affair in good time, or might have been cruelly
cut himself. Messrs. H--h and R--s--w could also give some affecting descriptions of the Tartar
sultana's rage when armed with jealousy or resentment. Her residence, No. 30, B--k--r-street,
has long been celebrated as the three x x x; a name probably given to it by some spark who
found the sultana three times more cross than even common report had stated her to be." The
night was now fast wearing away, when Crony again directed our attention to the right-hand
corner of the room, where, just under the orchestra, appeared the elder sister of the notorious
Harriette Wilson seated, and in close conversation with the Milesian M. C, O'M--------a, who,
according to his usual custom, was dispensing his entertaining anecdotes of all his acquaintance
who graced the present scene. "That is Amy Campbell, otherwise Sydenham, &e., &c, but now legally
Bochsa, of whom Harriette has since told so many agreeable stories relative to the black puddings
and Argyle; however, considerable suspicion attaches itself to Harriette's anecdotes of her
elder sister, particularly as she herself admits they were not very good friends, and Harriette
never would forgive Amy for seducing the Duke of Argyle from his allegiance to her. Mrs. Campbell
was for some years the favourite sultana of his grace, and has a son by him, a fine boy, now
about twelve years of age, who goes by the family name, and for whose support the kind-hearted
duke allows the mother a very handsome annuity. Amy is certainly a woman of considerable talent;
a good musician, as might have been expected from her attachment to the harpist, and an excellent
linguist, speaking the French, Spanish, and Italian languages with the greatest fluency. In
her person she begins to exhibit the ravages of time, is somewhat embonpoint, with ~48~~dark
hair and fine eyes, but rather of the keen order of countenance than the agreeable; and report
says, that the Signior composer, amid his plurality of wives, never found a more difficult
task to preserve the equilibrium of domestic harmony.

By the side of this fair one, arm in arm with a well-known bookseller, you may perceive Harriette
Kochforte, alias Wilson, who, according to her own account, has had as many amours as the Grand
Seignor can boast wives, and with just as little of affection in the affaires de cour as his
sublime highness, only with something more of publicity. Harriette gives the honour of her
introduction into the mysteries of Cytherea to the Earl of Craven; but it is well known that
a certain dashing solicitor's clerk then living in the neighbourhood of Chelsea, and near her
amiable mamma's residence, first engrossed, her attention, and by whom she exhibited increasing
symptoms of affection, which being properly engrafted on the person of the fair stockinger,
in due time required a release from a practitioner of another profession; an innocent affair
that now lies buried deep in an odd corner at the old churchyard at Chelsea, without a monumental
stone or epitaph to point out the early virtues of the fair Cytherean. To this limb of the
law succeeded the Honourable Be--1--y C------n, who was then too volatile and capricious to
pay his devotions at any particular shrine for more than a week together. It was this cold
neglect of the honourable's that has, perhaps, secured him from mention in her Memoirs; since
Harriette never speaks of her beaux without giving the reader to suppose they were desperately
in love with herself: then there was more of the dignified in an affair with an earl, and Madame
Harriette has a great notion of preserving her consequence, although, it must be confessed,
she has latterly shown the most perfect indifference to the preservation of character. The
the cyprian's ball ~49~~circumstance which first gave Miss Wilson her great notoriety was the
affair with the young Marquis of Worcester, then just come out, and a willing captive to her
artful wiles. So successfully did she inveigle her noble swain, and so completely environ his
heart, that in the fulness of his boyish adoration of the fair Cytherean, he executed in her
favour a certain promise in writing, not a promise to pay, for that might have been of no consequence,
nor a promise of settlement, nor a promise to protect, nothing so unsettled,--nothing less
did the fair intriguante obtain than a full, clear, and definite promise of marriage, with
a sufficient penalty thereunto attached to make the matter alarming and complete, with every
appearance on his part to ratify the contract. In this state of things, information reached
his Grace of B--f--t of his noble heir's intention, who not much relishing the intended honour,
or perhaps doubting the permanency of his son's passion (for to question the purity of the
lady was impossible), entered into a negotiation with Harriette, by which, on condition of
her resigning the promise and pledging herself never to see the Marquis more on familiar terms,
this disinterested woman was to receive eight hundred pounds per annum--so anxious was his
grace to prevent a mes-alliance in his family. But, alas for Harriette! jealousy for once got
the better of her love of gain; her pride was wounded to see a sister flirting with her affianced
lord, and in a moment of irritation, she in a most unequivocal manner publicly asserted her
right to his person: the gallant yielded, the bond was null and void, the promise burnt, his
grace relieved from the payment of eight hundred pounds per annum, and his son the Marquis,
profiting by past experience, not so green as to renew the former obligation.

"My intention is not to pirate the lady's memoirs, and so rob her of the fair gain of her professional
~50~~experience," said Crony, when I mentioned these circumstances to him afterwards; "I only
mean to supply certain trifling omissions in the biography of Harriette and her family, which
the fair narrator has very modestly suppressed. It is but a few months since, that passing
accidentally into Warwick-court, Holborn, to call upon an old friend, a navy lieutenant on
half-pay, I thought I recognised the well-known superlative wig of the dandy Rochforte, thrust
longitudinally forward from beneath the sash of a two pair of stairs window.--Can it be possible?
thought I: and then again, I asked myself, why not? for the last time I saw him he was rusticating
in Surrey, beating the balls about in Banco Regis; from which black place he did not escape
without a little white-washing: however, he's a full Colonel of some unknown corps of South
American Independents for all that, and was once in his life, although for a very short time,
a full Cornet, in Lincoln Stanhope's regiment, the 17th dragoons, I think it was, and has never
clipped his mustachios since, one would imagine, by their length and ferocious appearance.
To be brief, I had scarcely placed my glass into the orifice before my imperfect vision, when
Harriette appeared at the adjoining window, and instantly recognizing an old acquaintance,
invited me up stairs. 'Times are a little changed,' said she, 'Mr. Crony, since last we met:'
'True, madam,' I responded; and then to cheer the belle a little, I added, 'but not persons,
I perceive, for you are looking as young and as attractive as ever.' The compliment did not
seem to please the Colonel in the wig, who turned round, looked frowningly, and then twirled
the dexter side of his lip wing into a perfect circle. It is not possible that this thing can
affect jealousy of such a woman as Harriette? thought I: so proceeded with our conversation:
and he shortly resumed his polite amusement of spitting upon the children who were ~51~~playing
marbles beneath his window. 'I am really married to that monster, yonder,' said she, in an
under tone: 'How do you like my choice?' 'I am not old enough in the gentleman's acquaintance
to hazard an opinion on his merits,' quoth I; 'but you are a woman of experience, belle Harriette,
and should be a good judge of male bipeds, although I cannot say much in favour of your military
taste.' 'And you was always a quiz, Crony,' retorted belle Harriette: 'remember my sister Mary,
who is now Mrs. Bochsa,{3} how you used to annoy her about her gaudy style of dressing, when
we used to foot it at Chelsea:--but I 3 There were in all eight sisters of the Debouchettes,
and three brothers; but only one of the latter is living. Of the girls, Amy is now Mrs. Bochsa;
Mary, married to a nephew of Sir Richard Bo****hs, a great Irish contractor; Harriette, actually
married to Cornet Rochforte; Fanny expired in the holy keeping of the present Marquis of H-----;
Sophia has been raised to the peerage, by the style and title of Lady B-----k, and by her subsequent
conduct well deserves her elevation; Julia, an affectionate girl, clung to the house of Coventry
through poor Tom's days of adversity, and died early, leaving some unprotected orphans; Charlotte
and Louisa, younger sisters, the first now about eighteen and very beautiful, although a little
lame, have been educated and brought up by their elder sister, the Baroness, and are by her
intended for the church--vestals for Hymen's altar: at any rate, I hope they will escape the
sacrifices of Cytherea. Harriette is now about forty years of age: she was, when at her zenith,
always celebrated rather for her tact in love affairs, and her talent at invention, than the
soft engaging qualifications of the frail fair, which fascinate the eye and lead the heart
captive with delight: her conversational powers were admirable; but her temper was outrageous,
with a natural inclination to the satirical:--to sum up her merits at once, she was what a
connoisseur would have called a bold fine woman, rather than an engaging handsome one--more
of the English Bellona than the Venus de Medici. Crony's account of the Round Room and belle
Harriette's first views of publishing are, I have since learned, strictly correct. There is
not a person mentioned in her Memoirs, or scarcely one of any note in the Court-guide, of whom
she has at any time had the slightest knowledge, that have not been applied to repeatedly within
the last three years, and received threats of exposure to compel them to submit to extortion.
~52~~want your assistance.' Egad, I dare say, I looked rather comical at this moment, for in
truth I was somewhat alarmed at the last phrase. Harriette burst into a loud fit of laughter;
the Colonel drew in his elegant wig, and deigned a smile; while I, involuntarily forcing my
hand into the pocket of my inexpressibles, carefully drove the few sovereigns I had up into
one corner, fearing the belle Harriette had a mighty notion of laying strong siege to them:
in this, however, I was agreeably disappointed; for recovering herself, she acknowledged she
had perceived my embarrassment, but assured me I need be under no alarm on this occasion, as,
at present, she only wanted to borrow a few--ideas: what a relief the last short word afforded!
'I have been writing some sketches of my life,' said she, 'and am going to publish: give me
your opinion, Crony, upon its merits;' and without more ceremony, she thrust a little packet
of papers into my hand, headed 'Sketches in the Round Room at the Opera House;' in which all
the characters of the Opera frequenters were tolerably well drawn, nor was the dialogue deficient
in spirit; but the titles were all fictitious--such as my Lord Red Head, for the Marquess of
H-----d, Lord Pensiveham, for P------m, and so on to the end of the chapter. Having glanced
through the contents, I recommended her to Colburn, as the universal speculator in paper and
print; but his highness is playing magnifico, à la Murray, in his new mansion, it would seem;
for he, as I have since learned, refused to publish. At length, after trying Allman and others,
belle Harriette hit upon Stockdale, who having made some bad hits in his time, thought a little
courtesanish scandal could not make bad worse. Under his superintendence real names were substituted
for the fictitious; and it is said, that the choice notes of the lady are interwoven and extended,
connected and illustrated, by the same elegant Apollo who used to write love letters for Mary
Ann, and ~58~~love epistles to half a thousand, including Bang and the Bantum, in the dark
refectory of the celebrated mother Wood, the Lady of the Priory, or Lisle-street Convent."
"If such is the case, 'how are the mighty fallen!'" said I.------But let us return to the ball-room.
As the night advanced, a few more stars made their appearance in the firmament of beauty; among
these, Crony pointed out some of the demirespectables, attracted thither either by curiosity
or the force of old habit: among these was Charles Wy--h--m's bit of rue, that herb of grace,
the once beautiful Mrs. Ho--g--s, since closely connected with the whiskered Lord P-----, to
whose brother, the Honourable F------g, her daughter, the elegant Miss W--------n, had the
good fortune to be early married. In the same group appeared another star of no mean attraction,
the Honourable Mrs. L-----g, whose present husband underwent the ordeal of a crim. con. trial
to obtain her person. 'Par nobile fratum,' the world may well say of the brothers, P------
and L-----g; while F--------y, with all his eccentricities, has the credit of being a very
good husband. Three little affected mortals, the Misses St--ts, Crony introduced by the name
of the pretenders, from the assumed modesty and great secrecy with which they carry on their
amours. 'Pas à pas on va bien loin,' says the old French proverb, and rightly too," remarked
our ancient; "for if you boys had not brought me here, I should never have known the extent
of my experience, or have attempted to calculate the number of my female acquaintances." In
the supper-room, which opened at four o'clock in the morning, Waud had spread forth a banquet
every way worthy the occasion: a profuse display of the choicest viands of the season and delicacies
of the most costly character graced the splendid board, where the rich juice of the grape,
and the inviting ripeness of the dessert, were only equalled by the voluptuous votaries who
~54~~surrounded the repast. It was now that ceremony and the cold restraint of well regulated
society were banished, by the free circulation of the glass. The eye of love shot forth the
electric flash which animates the heart of young desire, lip met lip, and the soft cheek of
violet beauty pressed the stubble down of manliness. Then, while the snowy orbs of nature undisguised
heaved like old ocean with a circling swell, the amorous lover palmed the melting fair, and
led her forth to where shame-faced Aurora, with her virgin gray, the blue-eyed herald of the
golden morn, might hope in vain to draw aside the curtain and penetrate the mysteries of Cytherea.
And now, gentle reader, be ye of the hardy sex, who dare the glories of the healthful chase
and haunt the peopled stream of gay delight--or of that lovely race, from which alone man's
earthly joys arise, the soft-skinned conquerors of hearts--be ye prudes or stoics, chaste as
virgin gold, or cold as alpine snow--confess that I have strictly kept my promise here, nor
strayed aside in all my wanderings among the daughters of pleasure, to give pain to worthy
bosoms or offend the ear of nicest modesty. Pity for the unfortunate, and respect for the feelings
of the relatives of the vicious and the dissolute, has prevented the insertion of many anecdotes,
with which Crony illustrated his sketches of character. Enough, it is presumed, has been done
to show vice in all its native deformity, without wounding the ear by one immoral or indelicate
expression. For the unhappy fair ones who form the principal portraits, it should be remembered
they have been selected from those only who are notorious, as belles of the first order, stars
of fashion, and if not something indebted to fortune they would have escaped enrolment here.
When beauty and poverty are allied, it must too often fall a victim to the eager eye of roving
lust; for, even to the titled ~55~~profligate, beauty, when arrayed in a simple garb of spotless
chastity, seems

          "----Fairer she
          In innocence and homespun vestments spread,
          Than if cerulean sapphires at her ears
          Shone pendent, or a precious diamond cross
          Heaved gently on her panting bosom white.

But let the frail remember, that the allurements of wealth and the blandishments of equipage
fall off with possession and satiety; to the force of novelty succeeds the baseness of desertion.
For a short time, the fallen one is fed like the silk-worm upon the fragrant mulberry leaf,
and when she has spun her yellow web of silken attraction, sinks into decay, a common chrysalis,
shakes her trembling and emaciated wings in hopeless agony, and then flutters and droops, till
death steps in and relieves her from an accumulation of miseries, ere yet the transient summer
of youth has passed over her devoted head.

Bernard Blackmantle.

THE PHILOSOPHY OF LAUGHTER;

OR, MR PUNCH IN ALL HIS GLORY.

     Thoughts on the Philosophy of Laughter--Bernard Blackmantle
     in Search of a Wife--First Visit to the Marigold Family--
     Sketches of the Alderman, his Lady, and Daughter--Anecdote
     of John Liston, and the Citizen's Dinner Party--Of the
     Immortal Mr. Punch--Some Account of the Great Actor--A
     Street Scene, sketched from the Life--The Wooden Drama--The
     True Sublime.

~56~~

          You may sing of old Thespis, who first in a cart,
          To the jolly god Bacchus enacted a part;
          Miss Thalia, or Mrs. Melpomene praise,
          Or to light-heel'd Terpsichore offer your lays.
          But pray what are these, bind them all in a bunch,
          Compared to the acting of Signor Punch?
          Of Garrick, or Palmer, or Kemble, or Cooke,
          Your moderns may whine, or on each write a book;
          Or Mathews, or Munden, or Fawcett, suppose
          They could once lead the town as they pleased by the nose;
          A fig for such actors! tied all in a bunch,
          Mere mortals compared to old deified Punch.
          Not Chester can charm us, nor Foote with her smile,
          Like the first blush of summer, our bosoms beguile,
          Half so well, or so merrily drive caro away,
          As old Punch with his Judy in amorous play.
          Kean, Young, and Macready, though thought very good,
          Have heads, it is true, but then they're not of wood.

~57~~

          Be ye ever so dull, full of spleen or ennui,
          Mighty Punch can enliven your spirits with glee.
          Not honest Jack Harley, or Liston's rum mug
          Can produce half the fun of his juggity-jug:
          For a right hearty laugh, tie thorn all in a bunch,
          Not an actor among them like Signor Punch.

          --Bernard Blackmantle.

It was the advice of the prophet Tiresias to Menippus, who had travelled over the terrestrial
globe fend descended into the infernal regions in search of content, to be merry and wise;

          "To laugh at all the busy farce of state,
          Employ the vacant hour in mirth and jest."

"The merrier the heart the longer the life," says Burton in his Anatomy of Melancholy. The
nepenthes of Homer, the bowl of Retenus, and the girdle of Venus, are only the ancient types
of liveliness and mirth, by the free use of which the mind is dispossessed of dulness, and
the cankerworm of care destroyed. Seneca calls the happiness of wealth bracteata félicitas,
tinfoiled happiness, and infelix félicitas, an unhappy felicity. A poor man drinks out of a
wooden dish, and eats his hearty meal with a wooden spoon; while the rich man, with a languid
appetite, picks his dainties with a silver fork from plates of gold--but, in auro bibitur venenum;
the one rinds health and happiness in his pottered jug, while the other sips disease and poison
from his jewelled cup. A good laugh is worth a guinea, (to him who can afford to pay for it)
at any time; but it is best enjoyed when it comes gratuitously and unexpectedly, and breaks
in upon us like the radiant beams of a summer sun forcing its way through the misty veil of
an inland fog.

I had been paying a morning visit to a wealthy ~58~~citizen, Mr. Alderman Marigold, and family,
at the express desire of my father, who had previously introduced me for the purpose of fixing
my--affection --tush--no, my attention, to the very weighty merits of Miss Biddy Marigold,
spinster; a spoiled child, without personal, but with very powerful attractions to a poor Colebs.
Two hours' hard fighting with the alderman had just enabled me to retreat from the persecution
of being compelled to give an opinion upon the numerous bubble companies of the time, without
understanding more than the title of either; to this succeeded the tiresome pertinacity of
Mrs. Marigold's questions relative to the movements, ondits, and fashionable frivolities westward,
until, fairly wearied out and disgusted, I sat down a lion exhausted, in the window seat, heartily
wishing myself like Liston{1} safe out of purgatory; when the sound

     1 John Liston, the comedian, is in private life not less
     conspicuous for finished pleasantry and superior manners
     than he is on the stage for broad humour; but nothing can
     offend the actor more than an invitation given merely in the
     expectation of his displaying at table some of his
     professional excellences. John had, on one occasion,
     accepted an invitation to dine with a wealthy citizen en
     famille; the repast over--the wine had circulated--a snug
     friend proposed the health of Mr. Liston; and John returned
     thanks with as much dignity as a minister of state eating
     white bait at Blackwall with the worshipful company of
     fishmongers. Then came the amiable civilities of the lady of
     the mansion, evidently intended to ingratiate herself with
     the actor, the better to secure his assent to her request,
     but not a muscle of the comedian gave the least
     encouragement. The little citizens, who were huddled round
     their mamma, and had been staring at the actor in anxious
     expectation, were growing very impatient. The eldest boy had
     already recited young Norval's speech to Lady Douglas, by
     way of prologue; but the actor still continued mute, never
     for a moment unbending to the smirking encourage-ment of his
     hostess, or the jolly laugh-exciting reminiscences of his
     ruby-faced host; as, for instance, "Lord, Mr. Liston, what a
     funny figure you looked t'other night in Moll Flaggon!" or,
     "How you made thorn laugh in Tony Lumpkin! and then what a
     fright you was in Mrs. Cheshire. Couldn't you give us a
     touch just now?" "Ay, do, Mr. Liston, pray do," vociferated
     a dozen tongues at once, including mamma, the little misses
     and mastery. "The children have been kept up two hours later
     than usual on purpose," said the lady mother. "Ay, come, my
     good fellow," reiterated the cit, "take another glass, and
     then give us some-thing funny to amuse the young ones." This
     was the finishing blow to Liston's offended dignity--to be
     invited to dinner by a fat fleshmonger, merely to amuse his
     uncultivated cubs, was too much for the nervous system of
     the comedian to bear; but how to retreat?" I have it,"
     thought John, "by the cut direct;" rising and bowing,
     therefore, to the company, as if intending to yield to their
     entreaties, he begged permission to retire to make some
     little arrangement in his dress, to personate Vanish; when,
     leaving them in the most anxious expectation for more than
     half an hour, on ringing the bell, they learned from the
     servant that Mr. Liston had suddenly Vanished by the street-
     door, and was, of course, never seen in that direction more.

~59~~of a cracked trumpet in the street arrested my attention. "I vonder vat that ere hinstrument
can mean, my dear!" said Mrs. Alderman Marigold, (advancing to the window with eager curiosity).
"It's wery likely some fire company's men marching to a bean-feast, or a freemason's funeral
obscenities," replied the alderman. When another blast greeted our ears with a few notes of
"See the Conquering Hero comes," "La, mamma," whined out Miss Biddy Marigold, "I declare, it's
that filthy fellow Punch coming afore our vindow vith his imperence; I prognosticated how it
voud be, ven the alderman patronised him last veek by throwing avay a whole shilling upon his
fooleries." "You've no taste for fun, Biddy," replied the alderman; at the same time making
his daughter and myself a substitute for crutches, by resting a hand upon each shoulder. "I
never laid out a shilling better in the whole course of my life. A good laugh beats all the
French medicine, and drives the gout out at the great toe. I mean to pension Mr. Punch at a
shilling a veek to squeak before my vindow of a Saturday, in preference to paying six guineas
for a ~60~~box to hear all that outlandish squeaking at the hopera." "La, pa, how ungenteel!"
said Miss Biddy; "I declare you're bringing quite a new-sense to all the square, vat vith your
hurdy-gurdy vonien, French true-baw-dears, and barrel organ-grinders, nobody has no peace not
at all in the neighbourhood." During this elegant colloquy, the immortal Mr. Punch had reared
his chequered theatre upon the pavement opposite, the confederate showman had concealed himself
beneath the woollen drapery, and the Italian comedian had just commenced his merry note of
preparation by squeaking some of those little snatches of tunes, which act with talismanic
power upon the locomotive faculties of all the peripatetics within hearing, attracting everybody
to the travelling stage, young and old, gentle and simple; all the crowd seem as if magic chained
them to the spot, and each face exhibits as much anxiety, and the mind, no doubt, anticipates
as much or more delight, than if they were assembled to see Charles Kemble, Young, and Macready,
all three acting in one fine tragedy. There is something so indescribably odd and ridiculous
about the whole paraphernalia of Mr. Punch, that we are irresistibly compelled to acknowledge
the superiority of the lignum vito Roscius over the histrionic corps of mere flesh and blood.
The eccentricity of this immortal personage, his foreign, funny dialogue, the whim and strange
conceit exhibited in his wooden drama, the gratuitous display, and the unrestricted laugh he
affords--all combine to make Mr. Punch the most popular performer in the world. Of Italian
origin, he has been so long domiciled in England, that he may now be considered naturalized
by common consent. Indeed, I much question, if a greater misfortune could befall the country,
than the removal or suppression of Mr. Punch and his laugh-provoking drolleries:--it would
be considered a national calamity; but Mirth protect ~61~~us from such a terrible mishap! Another
sound from an old cracked trumpet, something resembling a few notes of "Arm, Arm, ye Brave,"
and an accompaniment by the great actor himself of a few more "tut, tut, tutura, lura, lu's,"
in his own original style, have now raised excitement to the highest pitch of expectation.
The half inflated lungs of the alderman expand by anticipation, and his full foggy breathings
upon the window-glass have already compelled me more than once to use my handkerchief to clear
away the mist. The assembled group waiting the commencement of his adventures, now demands
my notice. What a scene for my friend Transit! I shall endeavour to depict it for him. The
steady looking old gentleman in the fire-shovel clerical castor, how sagaciously he leers round
about him to see if he is likely to be recognised! not a countenance to whom he is known; he
smiles with self-complacency at the treat he is about to enjoy; plants himself in a respectable
doorway, for three reasons; first, the advantage from the rise of the step increasing his altitude;
second, the security of his pockets from attacks behind; and third, the pretence, should any
Goth to whom he is known, observe him enjoying the scene, that he is just about to enter the
house, and has merely been detained there by accident. Excellent apologist!--how ridiculous!--Excessive
delicacy, avaunt! give me a glorious laugh, and "throw (affectation) to the dogs; I'll have
none of it." Now the farce begins: up starts the immortal hero himself, and makes his bow;
a simultaneous display of "broad grins" welcomes his felicitous entrée; and for a few seconds
the scene resembles the appearance of a popular election candidate, Sir Francis Burdett, or
his colleague, little Cam Hobhouse, on the hustings in Covent Garden; nothing is heard but
one deafening shout of clamorous approbation. Observe the butcher's boy has stopped his ~62~~horse
to witness the fun, spite of the despairing cook who waits the promised joint; and the jolly
lamp-lighter, laughing hysterically on the top of his ladder, is pouring the oil from his can
down the backs and into the pockets of the passengers beneath, instead of recruiting the parish-lamp,
while the sufferers are too much interested in the exhibition to feel the trickling of the
greasy fluid. The baker, careless of the expectant owner's hot dinner, laughs away the time
until the pie is quite cold; and the blushing little servant-maid is exercising two faculties
at once, enjoying the frolics of Signor Punch, and inventing some plausible excuse for her
delay upon an expeditious errand. How closely the weather-beaten tar yonder clasps his girl's
waist! every amorous joke of Signor Punch tells admirably with him; till, between laughing
and pressing, Poll is at last compelled to cry out for breath, when Jack only squeezes her
the closer, and with a roaring laugh vociferates, "My toplights! what the devil will that fellow
Punch do next, Poll?" The milkman grins unheedful of the cur who is helping himself from out
his pail; and even the heavy-laden porter, sweating under a load of merchandise, heaves up
his shoulders with laughter, until the ponderous bale of goods shakes in the air like a rocking-stone.
(See Plate.) Inimitable actor! glorious Signor Punch! show me among the whole of the dramatis
persona in the patent or provincial theatres, a single performer who can compete with the mighty
wooden Roscius.

The alderman's eulogium on Mr. Punch was superlatively good. "I love a comedy, Mr. Blackmantle,"
said he, "better than a tragedy, because it makes one laugh; and next to good eating, a hearty
laugh is most desirable. Then I love a farce still better than a comedy, because that is more
provokingly merry, or broader as the critics have it; then, sir, a pantomime beats both comedy
and ~63~~farce hollow; there's such lots of fun and shouts of laughter to be enjoyed in that
from the beginning to the end. But, sir, there's one performance that eclipses all these, tragedy,
comedy, farce, and pantomime put together, and that is Mister Punch--for a right-down, jolly,
split-my-side burst of laughter, he's the fellow; name me any actor or author that can excite
the risibilities of the multitude, or please all ages, orders, and conditions, like the squeaking
pipe and mad waggeries of that immortal, merry-faced itinerant. If any man will tell me that
he possesses genius, or the mellow affections, and that he can pass Punch,

          'Nor cast one longing, lingering look behind;'

then, I say, that man's made of 'impenetrable stuff;' and, being too wise for whimsicality,
is too phlegmatic for genius, and too crabbed for mellowness." Mark, what a set of merry open-faced
rogues surround Punch, who peeps down at them as cunningly as "a magpie peeping into a marrow
bone; "--how luxuriantly they laugh, or stand with their eyes and mouths equally distended,
staring at the minikin effigy of fun and phantasy; thinking, no doubt,

          "He bin the greatest wight on earth."

And, certainly, he has not his equal, as a positive, dogmatic, knock-me-down argument-monger;
a dare devil; an embodied phantasmagoria, or frisky infatuation. I have often thought that
Punch might be converted to profitable use, by being made a speaking Pasquin; and, properly
instructed, might hold up his restless quarter staff, in terrorem, over the heads of all public
outragers of decency; and by opening the eyes of the million, who flock to his orations, enlighten
them, at least, as much as many greater folks, who make more noise than he, and who, ~64~~like
him, often get laughed at, without being conscious that they are the subjects of merriment.
The very name of our old friend Punch inspires us in our social moments. What other actor has
been commemorated by the potential cup? is not the sacred bowl of friendship dedicated to the
wooden hero? would you forget the world, its cares, vexations, and anxieties, sip of the mantling,
mirth-inspiring cordial, and all within is jollity and gay delight.

          "For Punch cures the gout, the cholic, and the phthisic,
          And it is to every man the very best of physic."

Honest, kind-hearted Punch! I could write a volume in thy praise, and then, I fear, I should
leave half thy merits untold. Thou art worth a hundred of the fashionable kickshaws that are
daily palmed upon us to be admired; and thy good-humoured efforts to please at the expense
of a broken pate can never be sufficiently praised.

But now the curtain rises, and Mr. Punch steals from behind his two-foot drapery: the very
tip of his arched nose is the prologue to a merry play; he makes his bow to the multitude,
and salutes them with all the familiarity of an old acquaintance. What a glorious reception
does he meet with from an admiring audience! And now his adventures commence--his "dear Judy,"
the partner of his life, by turns experiences all the capricious effects of love and war. What
a true picture of the storms of life!--how admirable an essay on matrimonial felicity! Then
his alternate uxoriousness to the lady, and his fondlings of that pretty "kretur" with the
family countenance; his chivalrous exploits on horseback, and mimic capering round the lists
of his chequered tilt-yard; his unhappy differences with the partner of his bosom, and her
lamentable catastrophe; the fracas with the sheriff's substitute; and his interview with that
incomprehensible personage, ~65~~the knight of the sable countenance, who salutes him with
the portentous address of "schalabala! schalabala! schalabala!" his successive perils and encounters
with the ghost of the martyred Judy; and, after his combat with the great enemy of mankind,
the devil himself, "propria Marte" his temporary triumph; and, finally, his defeat by a greater
man than old Lucifer, the renowned Mr. John Ketch. Talk of modern dramas, indeed!--show me
any of your Dimonds, Reynolds, Dibdins, or Crolys that can compare with Punchiana, in the unities
of time, place, costume, and action, intricate and interesting plot, situations provokingly
comical and effective, and a catastrophe the most appallingly surprising and agreeable. Then
his combats aux batons are superior even to Bradley and Blanchard; but the ne plus ultra of
his exploits, the cream of all his comicalities, the grand event, is the ingenious trick by
which Mr. Punch, when about to suffer on the scaffold, disposes of the executioner, and frees
himself from purgatory, by persuading the unsuspecting hangman, merely for the sake of instruction
to an uninitiated culprit, to try his own head in the noose: Punch, of course, seizes the perilous
moment--runs him up to the top of the fatal beam--Mr. John Ketch hangs suspended in the air--Punch
shouts a glorious triumph--all the world backs him in his conquest--the old cracked trumpet
sounds to victory--the showman's hat has made the transit of the circle, and returns half-filled
with the voluntary copper contributions of the happy audience. The alderman drops his tributary
shilling, while his fat sides shake with laughter; even Mrs. Marigold and the amiable Miss
Biddy have become victims to the vulgar inspiration, and are laughing as heartily as if they
were enjoying the grimaces of the first of buffos, Signor Ambrogetti. And now the curtain falls,
and the busy group disperse their several ways, chuckling with delight over the ~66~~recollections
of the mad waggeries of immortal Mr. Punch.

          All hail! thou first great mimic chief,
          Physician to the mind's relief;
          Thrice hail! most potent Punch.
          Not Momus' self, should he appear,
          Could dim the lustre of thy sphere;
          So hail! all hail! great Punch.

Bernard Blackmantle.

THE WESTMINSTER SCHOLAR.

     Reminiscences of former Times--Lamentations of Old Crony--
     Ancient Sports and Sprees--Modern Im-provements--Hints to
     Builders and Buyers--Some Account of the School and its
     Worthies--Recollections of old Schoolfellows--Sketches of
     Character--The Living and the Dead.

          "Fast by, an old but noble fabric stands,
          No vulgar work, but raised by princely hands;
          Which, grateful to Eliza's memory, pays,
          In living monuments, an endless praise."

From a poem by a Westminster Scholar, written during Dr. Friend's Mastership, in 1699.

~67~~

"What say you to a stroll through Thorney Island,{1} this morning?" said old Crony, with whom
I had been taking a déjeuné à la fourchette; "you have indulged your readers with all the whims
and eccentricities of Eton and of Oxford, and, in common justice, you must not pass by the
Westminster blacks."{2} Crony had, I learned, been a foundation scholar during the mastership
of Dr. Samuel Smith; when the poet Churchill, Robert Lloyd, (the son of the under-master) Bonnel
Thornton, George Colman the elder, Richard Cumberland, and a host of other highly-gifted names,
were associated within the precincts of the abbey cloisters. Our way towards

     1  The abbey ground, so called by the monkish writers; but,
     since Busby's time, more significantly designated by the
     scholars Birch Island.--Vide Tidier.

     2  Black------s from Westminster; ruff--s from Winchester;
     and gentlemen from Eton.--Old Cambridge Proverb.

~68~~Westminster from the Surrey side of Vauxhall bridge, where Crony had taken up his abode,
lay through the scene of his earliest recollections; and, not even Crockery himself could have
been more pathetic in his lamentations over the improvements of modern times. "Here," said
Crony, placing himself upon the rising ground which commands an uninterrupted view of the bank,
right and left, and fronts the new road to Chelsea, and, the Grosvenor property; "here, in
my boyish days, used the Westminster scholars to congregate for sports and sprees. Many a juvenile
frolic have I been engaged in beneath the shadowy willows that then o'ercanopied the margin
of old father Thames; but they are almost all destroyed, and with them disappears the fondest
recollections of my youth. Upwards, near yonder frail tenement which is now fast mouldering
into decay, lived the beautiful gardener's daughter, the flower of Millbank, whose charms for
a long time excited the admiration of many a noble name, ay, and inspired many a noble strain
too, and produced a chivalrous rivalry among the young and generous hearts who were then of
Westminster. Close to that spot all matches on the water were determined; and beneath yon penthouse,
many a jovial cup have I partook of with the contending parties, when the aquatic sports were
over, in the evening's cool retirement, or seated on the benches which then filled up the space
between the trees in front of Watermans' Hall, as the little public house then used to be called.
About half a mile above was the favourite bathing-place; and just over the water below Lambeth
palace, yet may be seen Doo's house, where, from time immemorial, the Westminster boys had
been supplied with funnies, skiffs, wherries, and sailing-boats. The old mill which formerly
stood on the right-hand of the river, and from which the place derived its name, has now entirely
disappeared; and in lieu of the ~69~~green fields and pleasant walks with which this part of
the suburbs abounded, we have now a number of square brick-dust tubs, miscalled cottages ornée,
and a strange-looking Turkish sort of a prison called a Penitentiary, which from being judiciously
placed in a swamp is rendered completely uninhabitable. Cumberland-gardens, on the opposite
side, was, in former times, in great vogue; here the cits used to rusticate on a summer's evening,
coming up the water in shoals to show their dexterity in rowing, and daring the dangers of
the watery element to blow a cloud in the fresh air, and ruralise upon the 'margin of old father
Thames.'

But where can the Westminster boys of the present day look for amusements? there's no snug
spot now for a dog-tight or a badger-bait. Earl Grosvenor has converted all the green lanes
into Macadamised roads, and covered the turf with new brick tenements. No taking a pleasant
toodle with a friend now along the sequestered banks, or shooting a few sparrows or fieldfares
in the neighbourhood of the five chimnies{3} not a space to be found free from the encroachments
of modern speculators, or big enough for a bowling alley or a cricket match. Tothill-fields
have altogether disappeared; and the wand of old Merlin would appear to have waved over and
dispersed the most trifling vestiges and recollections of the past. A truce with your improvements!"
said Crony, combating my attempt to harmonise his feelings; "tell me what increases the lover's
boldness and the maiden's tenderness more than the fresh and fragrant air, the green herbage,
and the quiet privacy of retired spots, where all nature yields a delightful inspiration to
the mind. There where the lovers find delight, the student finds repose, secluded from the
busy haunts of men, and yet able, by a few strides, to mingle again at pleasure with the world,
the man of

     3 Since called the Five-fields, Chelsea; and a favourite
     resort of the Westminster scholars of that time, but now
     built upon.

~70~~contemplation turns aside to consult his favourite theme, and having run out his present
stock of thoughtful meditation, wheels him round, and finds himself one of the busy group again.{4}
As we advance

     4 The Rogent's-park, formerly called Marylebone, is an
     improve-ment of this nature. It was originally a park, and
     had a royal palace in it, where, I believe, Queen Elizabeth
     occasionally resided. It was disbarked by Oliver Cromwell,
     who settled it on Colonel Thomas Harrison's regiment of
     dragoons for their pay; but at the restoration of Charles
     II. it passed into the hands of other possessors; from which
     time it has descended through different proprietors, till,
     at length, it has reverted to the Crown, by whose public
     spirit a magnificent park is secured to the inhabitants of
     London. The expense of its planting, &c. must have been
     enormous; but money cannot be better laid out than on
     purposes of this lasting benefit and national ornament.

     The plan and size of the park is in every respect worthy of
     the nation. It is larger than Hyde-park, St. James's, and
     the Greenpark together; and the trees planted in it about
     twelve years ago have already become umbrageous. The water
     is very extensive. As you are rowed on it, the variety of
     views you come upon is admirable: sometimes you are in a
     narrow stream, closely overhung by the branches of trees;
     presently you open upon a wide sheet of water, like a lake,
     with swans sunning themselves on its bosom; by and by your
     boat floats near the edge of a smooth lawn fronting one of
     the villas; and then again you catch the perspective of a
     range of superb edifices, the elevation of which is
     contrived to have the effect of one palace. The park, in
     fact, is now belted with groups of these mansions, entirely
     excluding all sight of the streets. Those that are finished,
     give a satisfactory earnest of the splendid spirit in which
     the whole is to be accomplished. There will be nothing like
     it in Europe. The villas in the interior of the park are
     planted out from the view of each other, so that the
     inhabitant of each seems, in his prospect, to be the sole
     lord of the surround-ing picturesque scenery.

     In the centre of the park there is a circular plantation of
     im-mense circumference, and in the interior of this you are
     in a perfect Arcadia. The mind cannot conceive any thing
     more hushed, more sylvan, more entirely removed from the
     slightest evidence of proximity to a town. Nothing is
     audible there except the songs of birds and the rustling of
     leaves. Kensington gardens, beautiful as they are, have no
     seclusion so perfect as this.

~71~~in life we cling still closer to the recollections of our infancy; the cheerful man loves
to dwell over the scenes and frolics of his boyish days; and we are stricken to the very heart
by the removal or change of these pleasant localities; the loss of an old servant, an old building,
or an old tree, is felt like the loss of an old friend. The paths, and fields, and rambles
of our infancy are endeared to us by the fondest and the purest feelings of the mind; we lose
sight of our increasing infirmities, as we retrace the joyous mementos of the past, and gain
new vigour as we recall the fleeting fancies and pleasant vagaries of our earliest days. I
am one of those," continued Crony, "who am doomed to deplore the destructive advances of what
generally goes by the name of improvement; and yet, I am not insensible to the great and praiseworthy
efforts of the sovereign to increase the splendour of the capital westward; but leave me a
few of the green fields and hedgerow walks which used to encircle the metropolis, or, in a
short space, the first stage from home will only be half-way out of London. A humorous writer
of the day observes, that 'the rage for building fills every pleasant outlet with bricks, mortar,rubbish,and
eternal scaffold-poles, which, whether you walk east, west, north, or south, seem to be running
after you. I heard a gentleman say, the other day, that he was sure a resident of the suburbs
could scarcely lie down after dinner, and take a nap, without finding, when he awoke, that
a new row of buildings had started up since he closed his eyes. It is certainly astonishing:
one would think the builders used magic, or steam at least, and it would be curious to ask
those gentlemen in what part of the neighbouring counties they intend London should end. Not
content with separate streets, squares, and rows, they are actually the founders of new towns,
which in the space of a few months become finished and inhabited. The precincts of London have
more the appearance of a newly-discovered colony than ~72~~the suburbs of an ancient city.{5}
And what, sir, will be the pleasant consequences of all this to posterity? Instead of having
houses built to encumber the earth for a century or two, it is ten to one but they disencumber
the mortgagee, by falling down with a terrible crash during the first half life, and, perhaps,
burying a host of persons in their ruins. Mere paste-board palaces are the structures of the
present times, composed of lath and plaster, and Parker's cement, a few coloured bricks, a
fanciful viranda, and a balcony, embellished within by the décorateur, and stuccoed or whitewashed
without, to give them a light appearance, and hide the defects of an ignorant architect or
an unskilful builder; while a very few years introduces the occupant to all the delightful
sensations of cracked walls, swagged floors, bulged fronts, sinking roofs, leaking gutters,
inadequate drains, and other innumerable ills, the effects of an originally bad constitution,
which dispels any thing like the hopes of a reversionary interest, and clearly proves that
without a renovation equal to resurrection, both the building and the occupant are very likely
to fall victims to a rapid consumption." In this way did Crony contrive to beguile the time,
until we found ourselves entering the arena in front of the Dean's house, Westminster. "Here,
alone," said my old friend, "the hand of the innovator has not been permitted to intrude; this
spot remains unpolluted; but, for the neighbourhood, alas!" sighed Crony, "that is changed
indeed. The tavern in Union-street,

     5 For instance: in what a very short time back were the
     Bays-water-fields, there is now a populous district, called
     by the inhabitants "Moscow;" and at the foot of Primrose-
     hill we are amazed by coming upon a large complication of
     streets, &c. under the name of "Portland Town." The rustic
     and primaeval meadows of Kilburn are also filling with raw
     buildings and incipient roads; to say nothing of the
     charming neighbourhood of St. John's Wood Farm, and other
     spots nearer town.

~73~~where Charles Churchill, and Lloyd, and Bonnel Thornton used to meet and mix wit, and
whim, and strong potation, has sunk into a common pot-house, and is wholly neglected by the
scholars of the present time: not that they are a whit more moral than their predecessors,
but, professing to be more refined, they are now to be found at the Tavistock, or the Hummums,
at Long's, or Steven's; more polished in their pleasures, but more expensive in their pursuits."

As we approached the centre of Dean's-yard, Crony's visage evidently grew more sentimental;
the curved lips of the cynic straightened to an expression of kindlier feeling, and ere we
had arrived at the school-door, the old eccentric had mellowed down into a generous contemplatist.
"Ay," said Crony, "on this spot, Mr. Black mantle, half a century ago, was I, a light-hearted
child of whim, as you are now, associated with some of the greatest names that have since figured
in the history of our times, many of whom are now sleeping in their tombs beneath a weight
of worldly honours, while some few have left a nobler and a surer monument to exalt them with
posterity, the well-earned tribute of a nation's gratitude, the never-fading fame which attaches
itself to good works and great actions. Among the few families of my time who might be styled
''magni nominis' in college, were the Finches, the Drummonds, (arch-bishop's sons), and the
Markhams. Tom Steele{6} was on the foundation also, and had much fame in playing Davus. The
Hothams{7} were considered among the lucky hits of Westminster; the Byngs{8} thought not as
lucky as they should have been. Mr. Drake{9}

     6 A   descendant   of  the   celebrated  Sir  Richard
     Steele,   the associate of Addison in the Spectator, Tatler,
     Crisis, &c.

     7  Sir Henry and Sir William Hotham, admirals in the British
     navy.

     8 Viscount Torrington, a rear-admiral of the blue.

     9 Thomas   Tyrwhitt   Drake,   Esq.,   (I   believe)
     member   for Agmondesham, Bucks.

~74~~of Amersham was one of the best scholars of his time; for a particular act of beneficence,
two guineas given out of his private pocket-money to a poor sufferer by a fire, Dr. Smith gave
him a public reward of some books. Lord Carmarthen{10} here came to the title, on the death
of his eldest brother. Here too he found the Jacksons, and what was more, the Jacksons{11}
found him. Lord Foley had, during his stay here, two narrow escapes for his life, once being
nearly drowned in the Thames, and secondly, by a hack-horse running away with him: the last
incident was truly ominous of the noble lord's favourite, but unfortunate pursuits{12}. Sir
John St. Aubyn is here said to have formed his attachments with several established characters
in the commercial world, as Mr. Beckett, and others; which afterwards proved of the highest
consequence to his pursuits and success in life. Lord Bulkley had the credit of being one of
the handsomest and best-humoured boys of his time, and so he continued through life. Michael
Angelo Taylor{13} was remarkable for his close application, under his tutor Hume, and the tutor
as remarkable for application to him.

Hatton, junior. Lawyers, if not always good scholars, generally are something better; with
much strong practical sense, and a variety of all that "makes a ready man; "Hatton was all
this, both as to scholarship, and the pertinent application of it. Though a nephew of Lord
Mansfield, and bred up under his auspices, he was not more remarkable than his brother George
for the love of bullion. His abilities were great, and they would have been greatly thought
of, had he been personally less locomotive. "Ah, ah," said his uncle, "you'll never prosper
till you learn to stay in a place." He replied, "O never fear, sir, do but get me a place;
and I'll learn of you to stay in it."

     10 The present Duke of Leeds.

     11  Dr. Cyril Jackson, afterwards sub-preceptor to his
     Majesty, George the Fourth, and since canon of Christ
     Church, Oxford. He refused the primacy of Ireland; was an
     excellent governor of his college, and died universally
     respected at Fulpham, in Sussex, in 1819. Dr. William
     Jackson, his brother, who was Bishop of Oxford, was also
     Regius Professor of Greek to that university; he died in
     1815.

     12  His lordship's attachment to the turf is as notorious as
     his undeviating practice of the purest principles of honour.
     It will not excite surprise, that such conduct has not been
     in such pursuits successful.

     13 The member for Durham.

~75~~Lord Deerhurst (now Earl of Coventry) had then, as now, very quick parts, and early insight
into beautiful composition. Whatever good thing he met with, he was always ready with an immediate
parallel; Latin, Greek, or from honesty into English, nothing came amiss to him. He had a quick
sense of the ridiculous; and could scout a character at all absurd and suspicious, with as
much pleasant scurrility as a gentleman need have.

Banks always made his own exercises, as his exercises have since made him. He was a diligent
and good boy; and though an early arithmetician, and fond of numbers, he was as soon distinguished
for very honourable indifference to number one.

Douglas (now, I believe, Marquis of Queensberry) was remarkable for the worst penmanship in
the school, and the economy of last moments; till then he seldom thought of an exercise. His
favourite exercise was in Tothill-fields; from whence returning once very late, he instantly
conceived and executed some verses, that were the best of his day. On another day, he was as
prompt, and thought to have been more lucky than before; when, lo, the next morning he was
flogged! for the exercise was so ill written, that it was not legible even by himself.

Lord Maiden was remarkable for his powers of engaging, and he then, as since, made some engagements,
which might as well have been let alone. He made an early promise of all he has since performed.
He was very fond of dramatic entertainments, and he enacted much; was accounted a good actor;
so was his crony, Jack Wilson, so well known at Mrs. Hobart's, &c., for his fal de ral tit
and for his duets with Lady Craven, Lady A. Foley, &c, &c.

Lord MANSFIELD, then William Murray, here began his career. When at school, he was not remarkable
for personal courage, or for mental bravery; though one of the stoutest boys of his standing,
he was often beat by boys a year or two below him; and though then acute and voluble, his opinions
were suppressed and retracted before minds less powerful but more intrepid than his own. Of
his money allowance he was always so good a manager, ~70~~that he could lend to him who was
in need. The famous exercise which Niçois made such a rout about, was in praise of abundance:
an English theme on this thesis, from Horace--

          "Dulce est de magno tollore acervo. "

He was in college; and no man on earth could conjecture that in his own acervo there would
ever be aggrandizement, such as it has since occurred.

Lord Stormont at school began his knack of oral imitations, and when a child, could speak quite
as well as afterwards; after his uncle, the disgusting pronunciation of the letter o then too
infected his language; he made it come to the ear like an a. Humorously glancing at this affectation,
Onslow or Stanhope said "Murray's horse is an ass."

Markham, the Archbishop of York, made an early display of classical taste, and the diligent
cultivation of it. Some of his school exercises are extant, and show more than a promise of
that refinement and exactness, which afterwards distinguished his performances at Christ Church.
The Latin version of the fragment of Simonides, as beautiful as any thing in the whole range
of poetical imitation, though published in the Oxford Lachrymo as Mr. Bournes, is known to
be written by Mr. Markham.

At school, too, Markham's conversation had a particularity known to distinguish it. War was
his favourite topic, and caught, perhaps, from the worthy major, his father, and from his crony
Webb, afterwards the general. It was apparent upon all occasions; when he was to choose his
reading as a private study, in the sixth form, Cæsar was his first book; and so continuing
through most of his leisure time addicted to this sort of inquiry, the archbishop was afterwards
able to talk war with any soldier in England. But, indeed, what is there he could not talk
equal to any competitor? To the Archbishop Markham, and through him to Westminster, attach
the credit of the good scholarship of the present king. This is little less than a credit to
the country.

The Marquis of Stafford had fame for his English exercises; and after saying this of his Wednesday
nights' themes, let it also be noted, that he had fame for other exercises of old England.
He could ride, run, row, and bat better than most of his comtemporaries; in his potations,
too, he was rather deep; but though deep, yet clear; and though gentle, yet not dull. At once
a most jolly fellow, and the most magnificent of his time,--and so "ab incepto processerit."

The Duke of Dorset, then Sackville, (since dead) was good-humoured, manly, frank, and passionately
fond of various school ~77~~exercises; as billiards, at the alehouse in Union-street, (then
perhaps a tavern) and double-fives between the two walls at the school-door. For Tothill-fields
fame as to cricket, he was yet more renowned: there he was the champion of the town-boys against
those in college; and in the great annual match, he had an innings that might have lasted till
the time Baccelli run him out, had not the other side given up the game.

As to the school itself, there it was easy to catch him out; though such was his address, that
he was seldom caught out. When he was in school, really few boys were there to better purpose;
he made several good prose exercises both in English and Latin; and, what is rare for a boy
of rank, with but small aid from the tutor.

At school, he shot and rowed pretty well; and as he could not always pay for his boat in specie,
somebody proposed a barter of Tothill-fields game; but he had a soul above it, and what was
more, at his elbow another soul, saying, Carpamus dulcia, and of my dressing. That friend was

Lord Edward Bentinck, whose culinary fame began on the sparrows and fieldfares knocked down
about the Five Chimnies and Jenny's whim. At a bill of fare, and the science how dinner should
be put before him, he was then, as since, unrivalled; yet more to his good memorial, he knew
how a dinner should be put before other people. For one day, as he was beginning to revel in
a surreptitious banquet in the Bowling-alley, his share of the mess Lord Edward gave to the
relief of want, which then happened to be wandering by the window.--"This praise shall last."

Old Elwes, the late member for Berks, may occur, on the mention of want wandering by, though,
notwithstanding appearance, he suffered nobody about him to be in such wants as himself. Penurious,
perhaps, on small objects; in those which are greater, he was certainly liberal almost to prodigality.
The hoarding principle might be strong in him, but in the conduct of it he was often generous,
always easy. No man in England probably lost more money in large sums, for want of asking for
it: for small money, as in farthings to street beggary, few men probably have lost less. What
he had not sufficiently cultivated, was the habit of letting money easily go. So far, he was
the reverse of Charles the Second; for on greater occasions, again I say it, he seemed to own
the act under the ennobling impulse of systematic generosity, expanding equally in self-denial,
and in social sympathy. He was among the most dispassionate and tender-tempered men alive;
and, considering ~78~~all things, it might be reasonable to allot him the meed of meekness
upon earth, and of that virtue which seeketh not her own reward.

His ruling passion was the love of ease.

The beginnings of all this were more or less discernible at school, where Lord Mansfield gave
him the nick-name of Jack Meggot.

His other little particularities were the best running and walking in the school, and the commencement
of his fame for riding, which, in the well-known trials in the Swiss Academy, outdid all competition.
Worsley, of the Board of Works, alone divided the palm; he rode more gracefully. Elwes was
by far the boldest rider.

The Duke of Portland (who died in 1809) was among the delicciæ of each form at Westminster,
in all that appertained to temper, the tenderness and warmth of feeling, suavity of approach,
and the whole passive power of pleasing. Thus much internal worth, tempered with but little
of those showy powers which dazzle and seduce, gave early promise that he would escape all
intriguing politics, and never degrade himself by the projects of party; for a party-man must
always be comparatively mean, even on a scale of vicious dignity; in violence, subordinate
to the ruffian; in chicane, below a common town-sharper.

He had, happily, no talents for party; he was better used by nature. He seemed formed for the
kindliest offices of life; to appreciate the worth, and establish the dignity of domestic duties;
to exemplify the hardest tasks of friendship and affinity; to display each hospitable charm.

All that he afterwards did for Chace Price, and Lord Eduard, appeared as a flower in its bud,
in Dean's-yard and Tothill-fields, with the fruit-woman under the Gateway, and the coffee-house
then opposite.

In his school-exercises, fame is not remembered to have followed any but his Wednesday evening
themes: some of them were incomparably the best of the standing. In the rest of the school
business, said the master to him one day, "you just keep on this side whipping."

His smaller habits were none remarkable, except that his diet was rather more blameable in
the article of wine. A little too early; a little too much.

This, probably, more than any hereditary taint, made him, in immediate manhood, a martyr to
the gout.

Against this, his ancestor's nostrum was tried in vain; the disease would not yield, till it
was overborne by abstinence, which, to the praise of the duke's temper, he began and continued,
with a splendour of resolution not any where exceeded.

~79~~The duke had been long estranged from all animal food but fish, and every fermented liquor.
According to the old Latin distich, the poetry of a water-drinker is said to be short-lived,
and not fit to live: was this proverbial doom extended to what was not poetry, it might be
checked by the prose of the Duke of Portland. Most of his common letters were among the models
of epistolary correspondence.

The Duke of Beaufort{14} exhibited at school more of the rudiments of a country gentleman,
than the rudiments of Busby; he knew a horse practically, while other boys took it only from
description in Virgil.

Stare loco nescit, was however his motto; and through all the demesnes adjacent to his little
reign, on the water, and in the water, he was well; on horseback he was yet better; and to
ride, or tie, on foot, or on horseback, no boy of his time was more ready at every good turn.
He loved his friend; and, such were the engaging powers of his very frank and pleasant manner,
his friends all loved him.

Some encumbrances, solito de more of all boys, with the coffee-house, for jellies, fruit, &c,
left when he left school, he afterwards discharged with singular éclat.

In regard to scholarship, he was by no means wanting; though it must be owned, he wanted always
to be better strangers with them. Like many other boys, he knew much more than he was aware
of; for he had as much aversion to the Greek Epigrams, as the best critic could have; and in
Terence, as he could find nothing to laugh, Lloyd often raised an opposite emotion. Lloyd,
had he lived to this time, would have taken Terence as a main ingredient in his enjoyments.
So benevolent is nature to fit the feelings of man to his destiny.

M'Donald, afterwards Solicitor General, was in college, and had then about him much that was
remarkable for good value.

The different ranks in college are rather arduous trials of temper; and he that can escape
without imputation through them, and be, as it is called, a junior without meanness, and a
senior without obduracy, exhibits much early promise, both as to talents and virtue.

This early promise was M 'Donald's. He was well-respected in either rank, and he deserved it;
for he obeyed the time, without being time-serving; he commanded, as one not forgetting what
it was to obey.

Par negotiis, neque supra, characterised his scholarship.

     14 Died in 1803.

~80~~He had in every form sufficiency, and sometimes eminence. He had more facility in Greek
than most boys; his English exercises were conspicuous for language and neatness of turn.

He was a very uncorrupt boy, and his manners were rather elevated; yet it is not remembered
that he lost popularity even with the worst boys in the school; the whole secret of which was
specie minus quam vi. He was better than he seemed. There was no pride, no offending wish at
seclusion.

Though not so remarkable for book knowledge as his brother Sir James, who thus, indeed, was
nothing less than a prodigy, yet was M'Donald extremely well and very variously read. In miscellaneous
information, far more accomplished than any boy of his time.

Markham, the master, had a high opinion of him; and once, in the midst of strong and favourable
prognostics, said, "There was nothing against him but what was for him; rank and connections,
and the too probable event of thence advancing into life too forward and too early."

Markham spoke with much sagacity. The rosa sera is the thing, for safe and spreading efflorescence.
Well as the wreath might be about M'Donald's brow, it had probably been better, if gathered
less eagerly, if put on later.

Cock Langford was the son of the auctioneer--

And there never was an inheritance of qualities like it. He would have made as good an auctioneer
as his father; a better could not bo.

Cock Langford, so called, from the other auctioneer Cock, very early in the school discovered
great talents for ways and means; and, by private contract, could do business as much and as
well as his father.

His exercises were not noted for any excess of merit, or the want of it. He certainly had parts,
if they had been put in their proper direction: that was trade. In that he might have been
conspicuously useful.

As he was in college, and nothing loath in any occasion that led to notice, in spite of a lisp
in his speech, he played Davus in the Phormio; which he opened with singidar absurdity, as
the four first words terminate in the letter s, which he, from the imperfection in his speech,
could not help mangling.

From the patronage of Lord Orford, Mr. Langford had one of the best livings in Norfolk, £1000
a year; and afterwards, I understand, very well exemplified the useful and honourable duties
of a clergyman resident on his benefice.

Hamilton. Every thing is the creature of accident; as that ~81~~works upon time and place,
so are the vicissitudes which follow; vicissitudes that reach through the whole allotment of
man, even to the charm of character, and the qualities which produce it.

Physically speaking, human nature can redress itself of climate, can generate warmth in high
latitudes, and cold at the equator; but in respect to mind and manners, from the law of latitude
there is no appeal. Man, like the plants that grow for him, has a proper sky and soil: with
them to flourish, without them to fade; through either kingdom, vegetable and moral, in situations
that are aquatic, the alpine nature cannot live.

All this applies to Hamilton wasting himself at Westminster. "Wild nature's vigour working
at his root;"

his situation should have been accordingly; where he might have spread wide and struck deep.

With more than boyish aptitudes and abilities, he should not thus have been lost among boys.
His incessant intrepidity, his restless curiosity, his undertaking spirit, all indicated early
maturity; all should have led to pursuits, if not better, at least of more pith and moment
than the mere mechanism of dead language!

This by Hamilton (disdaining as a business what as an amusement perhaps might have delighted
him) was deemed a dead letter, and as such, neglected; while he bestowed himself on other mechanism,
presenting more material objects to the mind.

Exercises out of school took place of exercises within. Not that like Sackville or Hawkins,
he had a ball at every leisure moment in his hand; but, preferably to fives or cricket, he
would amuse himself in mechanical pursuits; little in themselves, but great as to what they
might have been convertible.

In the fourth form, he produced a red shoe of his own making. And though he never made a pocket
watch, and probably might mar many, yet all the interior machinery he knew and could name.
The whole movement he took to pieces, and replaced.

The man who is to find out the longitude, cannot have beginnings; better than these. Count
Bruhl, since Madge's death, the best watch-maker of his time, did not raise more early wonder.

Besides this, Hamilton was to be found in every daring oddity. Lords Burlington and Kent, in
all their rage for porticos, were nothing to him in a rage for pediments.

For often has the morning caught him scaling the high pediments of the school-door, and at
peril of Ins life clambering down, opening the door within, before the boy who kept the gate
could come with the key. His evenings set upon no less perils; in pranks with gunpowder; in
leaping from unusual heights into the ~82~~Thames. As a practical geographer of London, and
Heaven only knows how many miles round it, omniscient Jackson himself could not know more.

All this, surely, was intrinsically right, wrong only in its direction. Had he been sent to
Woolwich, he might have come out, if not a rival of the Duke of Richmond, then master of the
ordnance, at least a first-rate engineer. In economical arts and improvements, nothing less
than national, he might have been the Duke of Bridgewater of Ireland. Had the sea been his
profession, Lord Mulgrave might have been less alone in the rare union of science and enterprise.

But all this capability of usefulness and fair fame, was brought to nought by the obstinate
absurdity of the people about him; nothing could wean them from Westminster. His grandfather
Roan, or Rohan, an old man who saved much money in Rathbone-place, and spent but little of
it every evening at Slaughter's coffee-house, holding out large promise to property, so became
absolute; and absolute nonsense was his conduct to his grandson. He persevered in the school;
where, if a boy disaffects book-knowledge, his books are only bought and sold. And after Westminster,
when the old man died, as if solicitous that every thing about his grave, but poppy and mandragora,
should grow downwards, his will declared his grandson the heir, but not to inherit till he
graduated at Cambridge.

To Cambridge therefore he went; where having pursued his studies, as it is called, in a ratio
inverse and descending, he might have gone on from bad to worse; and so, as many do, putting
a grave face upon it, he might have had his degree. But his animal spirits, and love of bustle,
could not go off thus undistinguished; and so, after coolly attempting to throw a tutor into
the Cam--after shaking all Cambridge from its propriety by a night's frolic, in which he climbed
the sign-posts, and changed the principal signs, he was rusticated; till the good-humour of
the university returning, he was re-admitted, and enabled to satisfy his grandfather's will!

After that, he behaved with much gallantry in America; and with good address in that very disagreeable
affair, the contested marriage of his sister with Mr. Beresford the clergyman.

Indeed, through the intercourse of private life he was very amiable. The same suavity of speech,
courteous attentions, and general good-nature, he had when a boy, continued and improved: good
qualities the more to be prized, as the less probable, from his bold and eager temper, from
the turbulence of his wishes, and the hurry of his pursuits.

~83~~Jekyl had in part, when a boy, the same happy qualities which afterwards distinguished
him so entirely: in his economy of time, in his arts of arranging life, and distributing it
exactly, between what was pleasant and what was grave.

With vigorous powers and fair pursuits, the doing one thing at a time is the mode to do every
thing. Had Jekyl no other excellence than this, I could not be surprised when he became attorney-general.

"When you got into the place of your ancestor, Sir Joseph," said the tutor of Jekyl to him,
"let this be your motto:

          Et properare loco, et Cesare."

"Jekyl," said Mrs. Hobart one day, struck with the same address and exactness, "do you know,
if you were a painter, Poussin would be nothing to you in the balance of a scene."

Several of his English exercises, and his verses, will not easily be forgotten. And it will
be remembered also, in a laughable way, that he was as mischievous as a gentleman need be;
the mobbing a vulgar, the hoaxing a quiz, all the dialect of the Thames below Chelsea-reach,
and the whole reach of every thing, pleasant but wrong, which the school statutes put out of
reach, but what are the practice of the wits, and of every gentleman who would live by the
statutes. All these were among Jekyl's early peculiarities, and raised his fame very high for
spirit and cleverness.

          "So sweet and voluble was his discourse."

He was very popular among all the boys of his time. And he had a knack yet more gratifying,
of recommending himself to the sisters and cousins of the boys he visited.

And he well held up in theory what he afterwards exemplified in fact. For in one of the best
themes of the time on this subject,

          "Non formosus erat, sod erat facundus Ulysses,"

he was much distinguished.

~84~~"But the grave has closed upon most of the gay spirits of my earlier time," said Crony;
"and I alone remain the sad historian. Yonder porch leads to the dormitory and school-room.{15}

          'There Busby's awful picture decks the place,
          Shining where once he shone a living grace.'

     15 This school was founded by Queen Elizabeth in 1560, for
     the education of forty boys, denominated king's scholars
     from the royalty of their founders; besides which, the
     nobility and gentry send their sons thither for instruction,
     so that this establishment vies with Eton in celebrity and
     respectability. The school is not endowed with lands and
     possessions specifically appropriated to its own
     maintenance, but is attached to the general foundation of
     the collegiate church of Westminster, as far as relates to
     the support of the king's scholars. It is under the care of
     the dean and chapter of Westminster, conjointly with the
     dean of Christ Church, Oxford, and the master of Trinity,
     Cambridge, respect-ing the election of scholars to their
     respective colleges. The foundation scholars sleep in the
     dormitory, a building erected from the design and under the
     superintendence of the celebrated Earl of Burlington, in the
     reign of George the First; and in this place the annual
     theatrical exhibitions take place; the scenery and
     arrangements having been contrived under the direction of
     Mr. Garrick, were presented by Archbishop Markham, the
     former master of the school. The king's scholars are distin-
     guished from the town-boys, or independents, by a gown, cap,
     and college waistcoat; they have their dinner in the hall,
     but seldom take any other meal in college; they pay for
     education and accommodation as the town-boys; eight of them
     are generally elected at the end of the fourth year to the
     colleges above-named; they have studentships at Oxford, and
     scholarships at Cambridge; the former worth from forty to
     sixty pounds per annum, but the latter of small beneficial
     consideration. The scholars propose themselves for the
     foundation by challenge, and contend with each other in
     Latin and Greek every day for eight weeks successively, when
     the eight at the head of the number are chosen according to
     vacancies. This contest occasions the king's scholarships to
     be much sought after, as it becomes the ground-work of
     reputation, and incites desire to excel. There are four boys
     who are called Bishop's boys, from their being established
     by Williams, Bishop of Lincoln; they have a gratuitous
     education, and a small allowance which is suffered to
     accumulate till the period of their admission into St.
     John's College, Cambridge; they are distinguished by wearing
     a purple gown, and are nominated by the dean and head-
     master.

What a cloud of recollections, studded with bright and variegated lights, passes before my
inward vision! Stars of eminence in every branch of learning, science, and public duties, who
received their education within those walls; old Westminsters, whose fame will last as long
as old England's records, and who shall doubt ~85~~that will be to the end of time? Here grew
into manhood and renown the Lord Burleigh, King, Bishop of London, the poet Cowley, the great
Dryden, Charles Montague, Earl of Halifax, Dr. South, Matthew Prior, the tragedian Rowe, Bishop
Hooper, Kennet, Bishop of Peterborough, Dr. Friend, the physician, King, Archbishop of Dublin,
the philosopher Locke, Atterbury, Bishop of Rochester, Bourne, the Latin poet, Hawkins Browne,
Boyle, Earl of Cork and Orrery, Carteret, Earl of Granville, Charles Churchill, the English
satirist, Frank Nicholls, the anatomist, Gibbon, the historian, George Colman, Bonnel Thornton,
the great Earl of Mansfield, Clayton Mordaunt Cracherode, Richard Cumberland, the poet Cowper.
These are only a few of the great names which occur to me at this moment; but here is enough
to immortalize the memory of the old Westminsters."

ON FEASTERS AND FEASTING.

     On the Attachment of the Moderns to Good Eating and
     Drinking--Its Consequences and Operation upon Society--
     Different Description of Dinner Parties--Royal--Noble--
     Parliamentary--Clerical--Methodistical--Charitable--
     Theatrical--Legal--Parochial--Literary--Commercial and
     Civil Gourmands--Sketches at a Side-table, by Bernard
     Blackmantle.

~86~~

          "There are, while human miseries abound,
          A thousand ways to waste superfluous wealth,
          Without one fool or flatterer at your board,
          Without one hour of sickness or disgust."
          --Armstrong.

In such esteem is good eating held by the moderns, that the only way in which Englishmen think
they can celebrate any important event, or effect any charitable purpose, is by a good dinner.
From the palace to the pot-house, the same affection for good eating and drinking pervades
all classes of mankind. The sovereign, when he would graciously condescend to bestow on any
individual some mark of his special favour, invites him to the royal banquet, seats him tète-à-tête
with the most polished prince in Europe; by this act of royal notice exalts him in the public
eye, and by the suavity and elegance of his manners rivets his affections and secures his zeal
for the remainder of his life. The ministers too have their state dinners, where all important
questions are considered before they are submitted to the grand council of the nation. The
bishops dine in holy ~87~~conclave to benefit Christianity, and moralize over Champagne on
the immorality of mankind. The judges dine with the lord chancellor on the first day of term,
and try their powers of mastication before they proceed to try the merits of their fellow citizens'
causes. A lawyer must eat his way to the bar, labouring most voraciously through his commons
dinners in the Temple or Lincoln's Inn Halls, before he has any chance of success in common
law, common pleas, or common causes in the court of King's Bench or Chancery. The Speaker's
parliamentary dinners are splendid spreads for poor senators; but sometimes the feast is infested
with rats, whom his majesty's royal rat-catcher immediately cages, and contrives, by the aid
of a blue or red ribband, to render extremely useful and docile. Your orthodox ministers dine
on tithes, turtle, and Easter offerings, until they become as sleek as their own velvet cushions,
and eke from charity to mankind almost as red in the face from the ruby tint of red port, and
the sorrowful recollections of sin and death. The methodist and sectarians have their pious
love feasts--bachelor's fare, bread and butter and kisses, with a dram of comfort at parting,
I suppose. The deaf, the dumb, the lame, the blind, all have their annual charitable dinnerings;
and even the Actor's Fund is almost entirely dependent on the fund of amusement they contrive
to offer to their friends at their annual fund dinner. The church-wardens dine upon a child,
and the overseers too often upon the mite extorted from the poor. Even modern literature is
held in thraldom by the banquetings of modern booksellers and publishers, who by this method
contrive to cram the critics with their crudities, and direct the operation of their servile
pens in the cutting up of poor authors. At the Publisher's Club, held at the Albion, Dr. Kitchener
and Will Jerdau rule the roast; here these worthies may be heard commenting with ~88~~profound
critical consistency on culinaries and the classics, gurgling down heavy potations of black
strap, and making still heavier remarks upon black letter bibliomania, until all the party
are found labouring "Dare pondus idonea fumo," or, in the language of Cicero, it may be justly
said of them, "Damnant quod non intelligent." The magnifico Murray has his merry meetings,
where new books are made palatable to certain tastes by sumptuous feastings, and a choice supply
of old wines. Colburn brings his books into notice by first bringing his dinner coteries into
close conclave; and Longman's monthly melange of authors and critics is a literary statute
dinner, where every guest is looking out for a liberal engagement.

Even the booksellers themselves feast one another before they buy and sell; and a trade sale,
without a trade dinner to precede it, would be a very poor concern indeed. Fire companies and
water companies, bubble companies and banking companies, all must be united and consolidated
by a good dinner company. Your fat citizen, with a paunch that will scarce allow him to pass
through the side avenue of Temple Bar, marks his feast days upon his sheet almanack, as a lawyer
marks his term list with a double dash, thus =, and shakes in his easy chair like a sack of
blubber as lie recapitulates the names of all the glorious good things of which he has partaken
at the annual civic banquet at Fishmonger's Hall, or the Bible Association dinner at the City
of London Tavern: at the mention of white bait, his lips smack together with joy, and he lisps
out instinctively Blackwall: talk of a rump steak and Dolly's, his eyes grow wild with delight;
and just hint at the fine green fat of a fresh killed turtle dressed at Birch's, and his whole
soul's in arms for a corporation dinner. Reader, I have been led into this strain of thinking
by an excursion I am about to make with Alderman Marigold and family, ~89~~to enjoy the pleasures
of a Sunday ordinary in the suburbs of the metropolis; an old fashioned custom that is now
fast giving way to modern notions of refinement, and is therefore the more worthy of characteristic
record.

Bernard Blackmantle.

A SUNDAY RAMBLE TO HIGHGATE,

OR, THE CITS ORDINARY.

     Bernard Blackmantle's first Excursion with the Marigold
     Family--Lucubrations of the Alderman on the Alterations of
     the Times--Sketches and Recollections on the Road--The Past
     and the Present--Arrival at the Gate House, Highgate--The
     Cit's Ordinary--Traits of Character--The Water Drinker, the
     Vegetable Eater, and the Punster--Tom Cornish, the
     Gourmand--Anecdote of old Tattersall and his Beef Eater--
     Young Tat. and the Turnpike Man.

~90~~"May I never be merry more," said the alderman, "if we don't go a Maying on Sunday next,
and you must accompany us, Master Blackmantle: I always make a country excursion once a year,
to wit, on the first Sunday in May, when we join a very jolly party at the Gate House, Highgate,
and partake of an excellent ordinary."

"I thought, Pa, you would have given up that vulgar custom when we removed westward, and you
were elected alderman of the ward of Cheap."

"Ay," said Mrs. Marigold, "if you wish to act politely to your wife and daughter write to the
Star and Garter at Richmond, or the Toy at Hampton Court, and order a choice dinner beforehand
for a select party; then we should be thought something of, and be able to dine in comfort,
without being ~91~~scrowged up in a corner by a Leadenhall landlady, or elbowed out of every
mouthful by a Smithfield salesman."

"There it is, Mr. Blackmantle, that's the evil of a man having a few pounds more in his purse
than his neighbours--it makes him miserable with his family at home, and prevents him associating
with old friends abroad. If you marry my Biddy, make these conditions with her--to dispense
with all Mrs. Marigold's maxims on modern manners, and be at liberty to smoke your pipe where,
and with whom you please."

"I declare, Pa, one would imagine you wished Mr. Blackmantle to lose all his manners directly
after marriage, and all respect for his intended bride beforehand."

"Nothing of the sort, Miss Sharpwit; but, ever since I made the last fortunate contract, you
and your mother have contracted a most determined dislike to every thing social and comfortable--haven't
I cut the Coger's Society in Bride Lane, and the Glee Club at the Ram in Smithfield? don't
I restrain myself to one visit a week to the Jolly Old Scugs{1} Society in Abchurch Lane? haven't
I declined the chair of the Free and Easy Johns, and given up my command in the Lumber Troop?--are
these no sacrifices? is it nothing to have converted my ancestors' large estate in Thames Street
into warehouses, and emigrated westward to be confined in one of your kickshaw cages in Tavistock
Square? Don't I keep a chariot and a chaise for your comfort, and consent to be crammed up
in a corner at a concert party to hear some foreign stuff I don't understand? Plague take your
drives in Hyde Park and promenades in Kensington Gardens! give me the society where I can eat,
drink, laugh, joke, and smoke

     1 Blue coat boys. The others are all well-known anacreontic
     meetings held in the city.

~92~~as I like, without being obliged to watch every word and action, as if my tongue was a
traitor to my head, and my stomach a tyrant of self-destruction."

The alderman's remonstrance was delivered with so much energy and good temper, that there was
no withstanding his argument; a hearty laugh, at the conclusion, from Miss Biddy and myself,
accompanied by an ejaculation of "Poor man, how ill you are used!" from his lady, restored
all to good-humour, and obtained the "quid pro quo," a consent on their parts to yield to old
customs, and, for once in a way, to allow the alderman to have a day of his own. The next morning
early an open barouche received our party, the coachman being particularly cautioned not to
drive too fast, to afford the alderman an opportunity of luxuriating upon the reminiscences
of olden time.

As the carriage rolled down the hill turning out of the New Road the alderman was particularly
eloquent in pointing out and describing the once celebrated tea gardens, Bagnigge Wells.

"In my young days, sir, this place was the great resort of city elegance and fashion, and divided
the town with Vauxhall. Here you might see on a Sunday afternoon, or other evenings, two thirds
of the corporation promenading with their wives and daughters; then there was a fine organ
in the splendid large room, which played for the entertainment of the company, and such crowds
of beautiful women, and gay fellows in embroidered suits and lace ruffles, all powdered and
perfumed like a nosegay, with elegant cocked hats and swords in their sides; then there were
such rural walks to make love in, take tea or cyder, and smoke a pipe; you know, Mrs. Marigold,
you and I have had many a pleasant hour in those gardens during our courting days, when the
little naked Cupid used to sit astride of a swan, and the water spouted from its beak as high
as the ~93~~monument; then the grotto was so delightful and natural as life, and the little
bridge, and the gold fish hopping about underneath it, made it quite like a terrestrial paradise{2};
but about that time Dr. Whitfield and the Countess of Huntingdon undertook to save the souls
of all the sinners, and erected a psalm-singing shop in Tottenham Court Road, where they assembled
the pious, and made wry faces at the publicans and sinners, until they managed to turn the
heads without turning the hearts of a great number of his majesty's liege subjects, and by
the aid of cant and hypocrisy, caused the orthodox religion of the land to be nearly abandoned;
but we are beginning to be more enlightened, Mr. Blackmantle, and Understand these trading
missionaries and Bible merchants much better than they could wish us to have done. Then, sir,
the Pantheon, in Spa Fields, was a favourite place of resort for the bucks and gay ladies of
the time; and Sadler's Wells and Islington Spa were then in high repute for their mineral waters.
At White Conduit House the Jews and Jewesses of the metropolis held their carnival, and city
apprentices used to congregate at Dobney's bowling-green, afterwards named, in compliment to
Garrick's Stratford procession, the Jubilee tea-gardens; those were the times to grow rich,
Mr. Blackmantle, when half-a-crown would cover the day's expenditure of five persons, and behave
liberally too."--In our way through Islington, the alderman pointed out to us the place as
formerly celebrated for a weekly consumption of cakes and ale; and as we passed through Holloway,
informed us that it was in former time equally notorious for its cheese-cakes, the fame of
which attracted vast numbers on

     2 Upon reference to an old print of Bagnigge Wells, I find
     the alderman's description of the place to be a very
     faithful portrait. The Pantheon is still standing, but
     converted into a methodist chapel.

~94~~the Sunday, who, having satiated themselves with pastry, would continue their rambles
to the adjacent places of Hornsey Wood House, Colney Hatch, and Highgate, returning by the
way of Hampstead to town.

The topographical reminiscences of the alderman were illustrated as we proceeded by the occasional
sallies of Mrs. Marigold's satire: "she could not but regret the depravity of the times, that
enabled low shop-keepers and servants to dress equal to their betters: it is now quite impossible
to enjoy society and be comfortable in public, without being associated with your tallow-chandler,
or your butcher, or take a pleasant drive out of town, without meeting your linen-draper, or
your tailor, better mounted or in a more fashionable equipage than yourself."

"All for the good of trade," said the alderman: "it would be very hard indeed if those who
enable others to cut a dash all the week could not make a splash themselves on a Sunday; besides,
my dear, it's a matter of business now-a-days: many of your kickshaw tradesmen west of Temple
Bar find it as necessary to consult appearances in the park and watch the new come outs, as
I do to watch the stock market: if they find their customers there in good feather and high
repute, they venture to cover another leaf in their ledger; but if, on the contrary, they appear
shy, only show of a Sunday, and are cut by the nobs, why then they understand it's high time
to close the account, and it's very well for them if they are ever able to strike a balance."

At the conclusion of this colloquy, we had arrived at the Gate House, Highgate, just in time
to hear the landlord proclaim that dinner was that moment about to be served up: the civic
rank of the alderman did not fail to obtain its due share of servile attention from Boniface,
who undertook to escort our party into the room, and having announced the consequence ~95~~of
his guests, placed the alderman and his family at the head of the table.

I have somewhere read, "there is as much valour expected in feasting as in fighting; "and if
any one doubts the truth of the axiom, let him try with a hungry stomach to gratify the cravings
of nature at a crowded ordinary--or imagine a well disposed group of twenty persons, all in
high appetite and "eager for the fray" sitting down to a repast scantily prepared for just
half the number, and crammed into a narrow room, where the waiters are of necessity obliged
to wipe every dish against your back, or deposit a portion of gravy in your pocket, to say
nothing of the sauce with which a remonstrance is sure to fill both your ears. Most of the
company present upon this occasion appeared to have the organs of destructiveness to an extraordinary
degree, and mine host of the Gate House, who is considered an excellent physiognomist, looked
on with trembling and disastrous countenance, as he marked the eager anxiety of the expectant
gourmands sharpening their knives, and spreading their napkins, at the shrine of Sensuality,
exhibiting the most voracious symptoms of desire to commence the work of demolition.

A small tureen of mock turtle was half lost on its entrance, by being upset over the leg of
a dancing-master, who capered about the room to double quick time, from the effects of a severe
scalding; on which the alderman (with a wink) observed, that the gentleman had no doubt caused
many a calf s head to dance about in his time, and now he had met with a rich return. "I'll
bring an action against the landlord for the carelessness of his waiter." "You had better not,"
said the alderman. "Why not, sir?" replied the smarting son of Terpsichore. "Because you have
only one leg to stand on." This sally produced a general laugh, and restored all to good humour.
On the appearance of a fine cod's head and shoulders, the ~96~~rosy gills of Marigold seemed
to extend with extatic delight; while a dozen voices assailed him at once with "I'll take fish,
if you please." "Ay, but you don't take me for a fag: if you please, gentlemen, I shall help
the ladies first, then myself and friend, and afterwards you may divide the omnium and scrip
just as you please."

"What a strange animal!" whispered the dancing master to his next neighbour, an old conveyancer.
"Yes, sir," replied the man of law, "a city shark, I think, that will swallow all our share
of the fish."

"Don't you think, Mr. Alderman," said a lusty lady on the opposite side of the table, "the
fish is rather high?"

"No, ma'ain, it's my opinion," (looking at the fragments) "the company will find it rather low."

"Ay, but I mean, Mr. Alderman, it's not so fresh as it might be."

"Why the head did whisper to me, ma'am, that he had not been at sea these ten days; only I
thought it rude to repeat what was told me in confidence, and I'm not fond of fresh things
myself, am I, Mrs. Marigold? Shall I help you to a little fowl, ma'am, a wing, or a merry thought?"

"Egad! Mr. Alderman, you are always ready to assist the company with the latter."

"Yes, ma'am, always happy to help the ladies to a tit bit: shall I send you the recorder's
nose? Bless my heart, how warm it is! Here, Joe, hang my wig behind me, and place that calf's-head
before me." (See Plate.)

"Very sorry, ma'am, very sorry indeed," said Mr. Deputy Flambeau to the lady next him, whose
silk dress he had just bespattered all over; "could not have supposed this little pig had so
much gravy in him," as Lady Macbeth says.

"I wish you'd turn that ere nasty thing right round, Mr. Deputy," growled out a city ~97~~costermonger,
"'cause my wife's quite alarmed for her grose de Naples."

"Not towards me, if you please, Mr. Deputy," simpered out Miss Marigold, "because thereby hangs
a tail, i.e. (tale)."

"That's my Biddy's ultimatum," said the alderman; "she never makes more than one good joke a day."

"If they are all as good as the last, they deserve the benefit of frequent resurrection, alderman."

"Why so, Mr. Blackmantle?"

"Because they will have the merit of being very funny upon a very grave subject--jeu d'esprits
upon our latter end."

"Could you make room for three more gentlemen?" said the waiter, ushering in three woe-begone
knights of the trencher, who, having heard the fatal clock strike when at the bottom of the
hill, and knowing the punctuality of the house, had toiled upwards with breathless anxiety
to be present at the first attack, and arrived at the end of the second course, just in time
to be too late. "Confound all clocks and clockmakers! set my watch by Bishopsgate church, and
made sure I was a quarter too fast." "Very sorry, gentlemen, very sorry, indeed," said Boniface;
"nothing left that is eatable--not a chop or a steak in the house; but there is an excellent
ordinary at the Spaniards, about a mile further down the lane; always half an hour later than
ours." "Ay, it's a grievous affair, landlord; but howsomdever, if there's nothing to eat, why
we must go: we meant to have done you justice to-day--but never mind, we'll be in time for
you another Sunday, old gentleman, depend upon it; "and with this significant promise the three
hungarians departed, not a little disappointed.

"Those three men are no ordinary customers," said our host; "they have done us the honour to
dine here before, and what is more, of leaving nothing behind; one of them is the celebrated
Yorkshireman, Tom ~98~~Cornish, whom General Picton pitted against a Hanoverian glutton to
eat for a fortnight, and found, at the end of a week, that he was a whole bullock, besides
twelve quartern loaves, and half a barrel of beer, ahead of his antagonist; and if the Hanoverian
had not given up, Tom would have eaten the rations of a whole company. His father is said to
have been equally gluttonous and penurious, and could eat any given quantity: this person once
dining with a member of the Society of Friends, who was also a scion of Elwes' school, after
having eat enough for four moderate visitors, re-helped himself, exclaiming, 'You see it's
cut and come again with me! 'to which the sectarian gravely replied, 'Friend, cut again thou
may'st, but come again thou never shalt.'"

"Ay, that's a very good joke, landlord," said the alderman; "but you know I am up to your jokes:
you think these long stories will save your mutton, but there you're wrong--they only give
time to take breath; so bring in the sirloin and the saddle of mutton, waiter; and when we've
done dinner I'll tell you an anecdote of old Tattersall and his beef-eater, which occurred
at this house in a former landlord's time. Come, Mr. Blackmantle, let me send you a slice of
the sirloin, and tell us what you think of good eating."

"That the wit of modern times directs all its rage ad gulam; and the only inducement to study
is erudito luxu, to please the palate, and satisfy the stomach. Even my friend Ebony, the northern
light, has cast off the anchorite, and sings thus jollily:

          'The science of eating is old,
          Its antiquity no man can doubt:
          Though Adam was squeamish, we're told,
          Eve soon found a dainty bit out.'

"We talk of the degeneracy of the moderns, as if men now-a-days were in every respect inferior
to their ~99~~ancestors; but I maintain, and challenge contradiction, that there are many stout
rubicund gentlemen in this metropolis that might be backed for eating or drinking with any
Bacchanalian or masticator since the days of Adam himself. What was Offellius Bibulus, the
Roman parasite, or Silenus Ebrius, or Milo, who could knock down an ox, and eat him up directly
afterwards, compared to Tom Cornish, or Richardson the oyster eater?{3} or what are all these
opposed to the Oxonian, who, a short time since, went to the Swan at Bedford, and ordered dinner?
a goose being brought, he hacked it in a style at which Mrs. Glass would have fainted; indeed
so wretched was the mutilated anatomy, in appearance, from bad carving, that, being perfectly
ashamed of it, he seized the moment when some poor mendicant implored his charity at the window,
deposited the remains of the goose in his apron, rang the bell, and asked for his bill: the
waiter gazed a moment at the empty dish, and then rushing to the landlord, exclaimed, 'Oh!
measter, measter, the gentleman eat the goose, bones and all!' and the worthies of Bedford
believe the wondrous tale to this day."

To return to Tom Cornish, our host informed us his extraordinary powers of mastication were
well known, and dreaded by all the tavern-keeping fraternity who had Sunday ordinaries within
ten miles round London, with some of whom he was a regular annuitant, receiving a trifle once
a year, in lieu of giving them a benefit, as he terms the filling of his voracious paunch.
A story is told of his father, who is said to have kept a very scanty table, that dining one
Saturday with

     3 In 1762, says Evelyn in his Diary, "one Richardson,
     amongst other feats, performed the following: taking a live
     coal on his tongue, he put on it a raw oyster; the coal was
     blown on with a bellows, till it flamed in his mouth, and so
     remained till the oyster gaped, and was quite boiled."
     Certainly the most simple of all cooking apparatus.

~100~~his son at an ordinary in Cambridge, he whispered in his ear, "Tom, you must eat for
to-day and to-morrow." "O yes," retorted the half-starved lad, "but I han't eaten for yesterday,
and the day before yet, father." In short, Tom makes but one hearty meal in a week, and that
one might serve a troop of infantry to digest. The squalling of an infant at the lower end
of the room, whose papa was vainly endeavouring to pacify the young gourmand with huge spoonfuls
of mock-turtle, drew forth an observation from the alderman, that had well nigh disturbed the
entire arrangement of the table, and broke up the harmony of the scene "with most admired disorder;"
for on the head of the Marigold family likening the youngster's noise to a chamber organ, and
quaintly observing that they always had music during dinner at Fishmongers' Hall, the lady
mother of the infant, a jolly dame, who happened to be engaged in the shell fish line, took
the allusion immediately to herself, and commenced such a furious attack upon the alderman
as proved her having been regularly matriculated at the college in Thames Street.

When the storm subsided the ladies had vanished, and the alderman moved an adjournment to what
he termed the snuggery, a pleasant little room on the first floor, which commanded a delightful
prospect over the adjacent country. Here we were joined by three eccentric friends of the Marigold
family, who came on the special invitation of the alderman, Mr. Peter Pendragon, a celebrated
city punster, Mr. Philotus Wantley, a vegetable dieter, and Mr. Galen Cornaro, an abominator
of wine, and a dyspeptic follower of Kitchener and Abernethy--a trio of singularities that
would afford excellent materials for my friend Richard Peake, the dramatist, in mixing up a
new monopolylogue for that facetious child of whim and wit, the inimitable Charles Mathews.
Our first story, while the wine was decantering, proceeded from the ~101~~alderman, who having
been driven from the dinner table somewhat abruptly by the amiable caro sposa of the fish-merchant,
had failed in giving us his promised anecdote of old Tattersall and his beef-eater. "I have
dined with him often in this house," said the alderman, "in my earlier days, and a pleasant,
jovial, kindhearted fellow he was, one who would ride a long race to be present at a good joke,
and never so happy as when he could trot a landlord, or knock down an argument monger with
his own weapons. The former host of the Gate House was a bit of a screw, and old Tat knew this;
so calling in one day, as if by accident, Tat sat him down to a cold round of beef, by way
of luncheon, and having taken some half ounce of the meat, with a few pickles, requested to
know what he had to pay for his eating. 'Three shillings, sir,' said the waiter. 'Three devils!'
ejaculated Tat, with strong symptoms of surprise, for in those days three shillings would have
nearly purchased the whole round: 'send in your master.' In walks the host, and Tat renewed
his question, receiving in reply a reiteration of the demand, but accompanied with this explanation,
that peck high or peck low, it was all the same price: 'in short, sir,' said the host, 'I keep
this house, and I mean the house should keep me, and the only way I find to insure that is
to make the short stomachs pay for the long ones.' 'Very well,' said Tat, paying the demand,
'I shall remember this, and bring a friend to dine with you another day.' At this time Tat
had in his employ a fellow called Oxford Will, notorious for his excessive gluttony, a very
famine breeder, who had won several matches by eating for a wager, and who had obtained the
appellation of Tattersall's beef-eater. This fellow Tat dressed in decent style, and fixing
him by his side in the chaise, drove up to the Gate House on a Sunday to dine at the ordinary,
taking care to be in excellent time, and making a previous appointment with a few friends ~102~~to
enjoy the joke. At dinner Will was, by arrangement, placed in the chair, and being well instructed
and prepared for execution, was ably supported by Tat and his friends: the host, too, who was
in excellent humour, quite pleased to see such a numerous and respectable party, apologised
repeatedly, observing that he would have provided more abundantly had he known of the intended
honour: in this way all things proceeded very pleasantly with the first course, Will not caring
to make any very wonderful display of his masticatory prowess with either of the unsubstantials,
fish or soup; but when a fine aitch-bone of beef came before the gourmand, he stuck his fork
into the centre, and, unheedful of the ravenous solicitations of those around him requesting
a slice, proceeded to demolish the whole joint, with as much celerity as the hyena would the
harmless rabbit: the company stared with astonishment; the landlord, to whom the waiters had
communicated the fact, entered the room in breathless haste; and on observing the empty dish,
and hearing Will direct the waiter to take away the bone and bring him a clean plate, was apparently
thunder-struck: but how much was his astonishment increased upon perceiving Will help himself
to a fine young turkey, stuffed with sausages, which he proceeded to dissect with anatomical
ability, and by this time the company understanding the joke, he was allowed uninterruptedly
to deposit it in his immense capacious receptacle, denominated by old Tat the fathomless vacuum.
Hitherto the company had been so completely electrified by the extra-ordinary powers of the
glutton, that astonishment had for a short time suspended the activity of appetite, as one
great operation of nature will oftentimes paralyze the lesser affections of the body; but,
as Will became satisfied, the remainder of the party, stimulated by certain compunctious visitings
of nature, called cravings of the stomach, gave evident symptoms of ~103~~a very opposite nature:
in vain the landlord stated his inability to produce more viands, he had no other provisions
in the house, it was the sabbath-day, and the butchers' shops were shut, not a chop or a steak
could be had: here Will feigned to join his affliction with the rest--he could have enjoyed
a little snack more, by way of finish. This was the climax; the party, according to previous
agreement, determined to proceed to the next inn to obtain a dinner; the landlord's remonstrance
was perfectly nugatory; they all departed, leaving Tat and his man to settle with the infuriated
host; and when the bill was brought in they refused to pay one sixpence more than the usual
demand of three shillings each, repeating the landlord's own words, that peck high or peck
low, it was all the same price."

With the first glass of wine came the inspiring toast of "The Ladies," to which Mr. Philotus
Wantley demurred, not on account of the sex, for he could assure us he was a fervent admirer,
but having studied the wise maxims of Pythagoras, and being a disciple of the Brahma school,
abominators of flesh and strong liquors, he hoped to be excused, by drinking the ladies in
aqua pura.--" Water is a monstrous drink for Christians!" said the alderman, "the sure precursor
of coughs, colds, consumptions, agues, dropsies, pleurisies, and spleen. I never knew a water-drinker
in my life that was ever a fellow of any spirit, mere morbid anatomies, starvelings and hypochondriacs:
your water-drinkers never die of old age, but melancholy."--"Right, right, alderman," said
Mr. Pendragon; "a cup of generous wine is, in my opinion, excellent physic; it makes a man
lean, and reduces him to friendly dependence on every thing that bars his way: sometimes it
is a little grating to his feelings, to be sure, but it generally passes off with an hic-cup.
According to Galen, sir, the waters of Astracan breed worms in those who taste them; those
~104~~of Verduri, the fairest river in Macedonia, make the cattle who drink of them black,
while those of Peleca, in Thessaly, turn every thing white; and Bodine states that the stuttering
of the families of Aquatania, about Labden, is entirely owing to their being water-drinkers:
a man might as well drink of the river Styx as the river Thames, 'Stygio monstrum conforme
paludi,' a monstrous drink, thickened by the decomposition of dead Christians and dead brutes,
and purified by the odoriferous introduction of gas water and puddle water, joined to a pleasant
and healthy amalgamation of all the impurities of the common sewers.

          'As nothing goes in so thick,
          And nothing comes out so thin,
          It must follow, of course,
          That no-thing can be worse,
          As the dregs are all left within.'"

"Very well, Mr. Pendragon, very well, indeed," said Mr. Galen Cornaro, an eccentric of the
same school, but not equally averse to wine; "'temperance is a bridle of gold; and he who uses
it rightly is more like a god than a man.' I have no objection to a cup of generous wine, provided
nature requires it--but 'simple diet,' says Pliny, 'is best;' for many dishes bring many diseases.
Do you know John Abernethy, sir? he is the manus dei of my idolatry. 'What ought I to drink?'
inquired a friend of mine of the surgeon. 'What do you give your horse, sir?' was the question
in reply. 'Water.' 'Then drink water,' said Abernethy. After this my friend was afraid to put
the question of eatables, lest the doctor should have directed him to live on oats. 'Your modern
good fellows,' continued John, 'are only ambitious of rivalling a brewer's horse; who after
all will carry more liquor than the best of them.' 'What is good to assist a weak digestion?'
said another patient. 'Weak food and warm clothing,' was the reply; 'not, ~105~~however, forgetting
my blue pill.' When you have dined well, sleep well: wrap yourself up in a warm watch-coat,
and imitate your dog by basking yourself at full length before the fire; these are a few of
the Abernethy maxims for dyspeptic patients." I had heard much of this celebrated man, and
was desirous of gleaning some more anecdotes of his peculiarities. With this view I laid siege
to Mr. Galen Cornaro, who appeared to be well acquainted with the whims of the practitioner.
"I remember, sir," said my informant, "a very good fellow of the name of Elliot, a bass-singer
at the concerts and theatres of the metropolis; a man very much resembling John Abernethy in
person, and still more so in manner; one who under a rough exterior carried as warm a heart
as ever throbbed within the human bosom. Elliot had fallen ill of the jaundice, and having
imbibed a very strong dislike to the name of doctor, whether musical or medical, refused the
solicitations of his friends to receive a visit from any one of the faculty; to this eccentricity
of feeling he added a predilection for curing every disease of the body by the use of simples,
decoctions, and fomentations extracted from the musty records of old Culpepper, the English
physician. Pursuing this principle, Elliot every day appeared to grow worse, and drooped like
the yellow leaf of autumn in its sear; until his friends, alarmed for his safety, sent to Abernethy,
determined to take the patient by surprise. Imagine a robust-formed man, sinking under disease
and ennui, seated before the fire, at his side a table covered with phials and pipkins, and
near him his vade mecum, the renowned Culpepper. A knock is heard at the door. 'Come in!' vociferates
the invalid, with stentorian lungs yet unimpaired; and enter John Abernethy, not a little surprised
by the ungraciousness of his reception. 'Who are you?' said Elliot in thorough-bass, just inclining
his head half round to recognize his visitor, ~106~~without attempting to rise from his seat:
Abernethy appeared astonished, but advancing towards his patient, replied, 'John Abernethy.'

'Elliot. Oh, the doctor!

'Abernethy. No, not the doctor; but plain John Abernethy, if you please.

'Elliot. Ay, my stupid landlady sent for you, I suppose.

'Abernethy. To attend a very stupid patient, it would appear.

'Elliot. Well, as you are come, I suppose I must give you your fee. (Placing the gold upon
the table.)

'Abernethy (looking rather cross.) What's the matter with you?

'Elliot. Can't you see?

'Abernethy. Oh yes, I see very well; then tasting some of the liquid in the phials, and observing
the source from whence the prescriptions had been extracted, the surgeon arrived at something
that was applicable to the disease. Who told you to take this?

'Elliot. Common sense.

'Abernethy putting his fee in his pocket, and preparing to depart. Good day.

'Elliot (reiterating the expression.) Good day! Why, you mean to give me some advice for my
money, don't you?

'Abernethy, with the door in his hand. Follow common sense, and you'll do very well.'

"Thus ended the interview between Abernethy and Elliot. It was the old tale of the stammerers
personified; for the professional and the patient each conceived the other an imitator. On
reaching the ground-floor the surgeon was, however, relieved from his embarrassment by the
communication of the good woman of the house, who, in her anxiety to serve Elliot, had produced
this extraordinary scene. Abernethy laughed heartily--assured her that the patient would do
well--wrote a prescription for him--begged ~107~~he might hear how he proceeded--and learning
he was a professional man, requested the lady of the mansion to return him his fee."

"Ay," said the alderman, "that was just like John Abernethy. I remember when he tapped poor
Mrs. Marigold for the dropsy, he was not very tender, to be sure, but he soon put her out of
her tortures. And when on his last visit I offered him a second twenty pound note for a fee,
I thought he would have knocked me down; asked me if I was the fool that gave him such a sum
on a former occasion; threw it back again with indignation, and said he did not rob people
in that manner." No professional man does more generous actions than John Abernethy; only it
must be after his own fashion.

"Come, gentlemen, the bottle stands still," said Mr. Pendragon, "while you are running through
the merits of drinking. Does not Rabelais contend that good wine is the best physic?' because
there are more old tipplers than old physicians.' Custom is every thing; only get well seasoned
at the first start, and all the rest of life is a summer's scene. Snymdiris the

Sybarite never once saw the sun rise or set during a course of twenty years; yet he lived to
a good old age, drank like a centaur, and never went to bed sober."

And when his glass was out, he fell Like some ripe kernel from its shell.

"I was once an anti-gastronomist and a rigid antisaccharinite; sugar and milk were banished
from my breakfast-table, vegetables and puddings my only diet, until I almost ceased to vegetate,
and my cranium was considered as soft as a custard; and curst hard it was to cast off all culinary
pleasures, sweet reminiscences of my infancy, commencing with our first spoonful of pap, for
all young protestants are papists; to this day my heart (like Wordsworth's) ~108~~overflows
at the sight of a pap-boat--the boat a child first mans; to speak naughty-cally, as a nurse
would say, how many a row is there in the pap-boat--how many squalls attend it when first it
comes into contact with the skull! But I am now grown corpulent; in those days I was a lighter-man,
and I believe I should have continued to live (exist) upon herbs and roots; but Dr. Kitchener
rooted up all my prejudices, and overturned the whole system of my theory by practical illustrations.

          "Thus he that's wealthy, if he's wise,
          Commands an earthly paradise;
          That happy station nowhere found,
          But where the glass goes freely round.
          Then give us wine, to drown the cares
          Of life in our declining years,
          That we may gain, if Heav'n think fitting,
          By drinking, what was lost by eating:
          For though mankind for that offence
          Were doom'd to labour ever since,
          Yet Mercy has the grape impower'd
          To sweeten what the apple sour'd."

To this good-humoured sally of Pendragon succeeded a long dissertation on meats, which it is
not meet I should relate, being for the most part idle conceits of Mr. Galen Cornaro, who carried
about him a long list of those prescribed eatables, which engender bile, breed the incubus,
and produce spleen, until, according to his bill of fare, he had left himself nothing to subsist
upon in this land of plenty but a mutton-chop, or a beef-steak. What pleased me most was, that
with every fresh bottle the two disciples of Pythagoras and Abernethy became still more vehement
in maintaining the necessity for a strict adherence to the theory of water and vegetable economy;
while their zeal had so far blinded their recollection, that when the ladies returned from
their walk to join us at tea, they were both "bacchi plenis," as Colman has it, something inclining
from ~109~~a right line, and approaching in its motion to serpentine sinuosities. A few more
puns from Mr. Pendragon, and another story from the alderman, about his friend, young Tattersall,
employing Scroggins the bruiser, disguised as a countryman to beat an impudent Highgate toll-keeper,
who had grossly insulted him, finished the amusements of the day, which Mrs. Marigold and Miss
Biddy declared had been spent most delightfully, so rural and entertaining, and withal so economical,
that the alderman was induced to promise he would not dine at home again of a Sunday for the
rest of the summer. To me, at least, it afforded the charm of novelty; and if to my readers
it communicates something of character, blended with pleasure in the perusal, I shall not regret
my Sunday trip with the Marigold family and first visit to the

GATE HOUSE, HIGHGATE.

THE STOCK EXCHANGE.

~110~~

          Have you ever seen Donnybrook fair?
          Or in a caveau spent the night?
          On Waterloo's plains did you dare
          To engage in the terrific fight?
          Has your penchant for life ever led
          You to visit the Finish or Slums,
          At the risk of your pockets and head?
          Or in Banco been fixed by the bums?
          In a smash at the hells have you been,
          When pigeons were pluck'd by the bone?
          Or enjoy'd the magnificent scene
          When our fourth George ascended his throne?
          Have you ever heard Tierney or Canning
          A Commons' division address?
          Or when to the gallery ganging,
          Been floor'd by a rush from the press?
          Has your taste for the fine arte impell'd
          You to visit a bull-bait or fight?
          Or by rattles and charleys propell'd,
          In a watch-house been lodged for the night?
          In a morning at Bow-street made one
          Of a group just to bother sage Birnie?
          Stood the racket, got fined, cut and run,
          Being fleeced by the watch and attorney?
          Or say, have you dined in Guildhall
          With the mayor and his corporate souls?
          Or been squeezed at a grand civic ball,
          With dealers in tallow and coals?
          Mere nothings are these, though the range
          Through all we have noticed you've been,
          When compared to the famed Stock Exchange,
          That riotous gambling scene.

~111~~

     The unexpected Legacy--Bernard Blackmantle and Bob Transit
     visit Capel Court--Characters in the Stocks--Bulls, Bears
     and Bawds, Brokers, Jews and Jobbers--A new Acquaintance,
     Peter Principal--His Account of the Market--The Royal
     Exchange--Tricks upon Travellers--Slating a Stranger--The
     Hebrew Star and his Satellites--Dividend Hunters and
     Paragraph Writers--The New Bubble Companies--Project
     Extraordinary--Prospectus in Rhyme of the Life, Death,
     Burial, and Resurrection Company--Lingual Localisms of the
     Stock Exchange explained--The Art and Mystery of Jobbing
     exposed--Anecdotes of the House and its Members--Flying a
     Tile--Billy Wright's Brown Pony--Selling a Twister--A Peep
     into Botany Bay--Flats and Flat-catchers--The Rotunda and
     the Transfer Men--How to work the Telegraph--Create a Rise--
     Put on the Pot--Bang down the Market--And waddle out a Lame
     Duck.

A bequest of five hundred pounds by codicil from a rich old aunt had most unexpectedly fallen
to my friend Transit, who, quite unprepared for such an overwhelming increase of good fortune,
was pondering on the best means of applying this sudden acquisition of capital, when I accidentally
paid him a visit in Half-moon Street. "Give me joy, Bernard," said Bob; "here's a windfall;"
thrusting the official notice into my hand; "five hundred pounds from an old female miser,
who during her lifetime was never known to dispense five farthings for any generous or charitable
purpose; but being about to slip her wind and make a wind-up of her accounts, was kind enough
to remember at parting that she had a poor relation, an ~112~~artist, to whom such a sum might
prove serviceable, so just hooked me on to the tail end of her testamentary document and booked
me this legacy, before she booked herself inside for the other world. And now, my dear Bernard,"
continued Bob, "you are a man of the world, one who knows

          'What's what, and that's as high
          As metaphysic wit can fly.'

I am puzzled, actually bewildered what to do with this accumulation of wealth: only consider
an eccentric artist with five hundred pounds in his pocket; why it must prove his death-warrant,
unless immediate measures are taken to free him from its magical influence. Shall I embark
it in some of the new speculations? the Milk company, or the Water company, the Flesh, Fish,
or Fowl companies, railways or tunnel-ways, or in short, only put me in the right way, for,
at present, I am mightily abroad in that respect." "Then my advice is, that you keep your money
at home, or in other words, fund it; unless you wish to be made fun of and laughed at for a
milksop, or a bubble merchant, or be taken for one of the Gudgeon family, or a chicken butcher,
a member of the Poultry company, where fowl dealing is considered all fair; or become a liveryman
of the worshipful company of minors (i.e. miners), where you may be fleeced à la Hayne, by
legs, lawyers, bankers and brokers, demireps and contractors'; or, perhaps, you ~113~~will
feel disposed to embark in a new company, of which I have just strung together a prospectus
in rhyme: a speculation which has, at least, much of novelty in this country to recommend it,
and equally interests all orders of society.

     1 It is not surprising, we see, that lawyers, bankers, and
     brokers are found at the bottom of most of the new schemes.
     Their profits are certain, whatever the fate of the Gudgeon
     family. The brokers, in particular, have a fine harvest of
     it. Their charges being upon the full nominal amount of the
     shares sold, they get twice as much by transferring a single
     100L. share in a speculation, although only 1L. may have
     been paid on it, as by the purchase or sale of 100L.
     consols, of which the price is 94L. Or, to make the matter
     plainer to the uninitiated, suppose an individual wishes to
     lay out 500L. in the stock-market. If he orders his broker
     to purchase into the British funds, the latter will buy him
     about  535L.  three per   cent,   consols; and the
     brokerage, at one-eighth per cent, will be about 13s.    But
     if the same person desires to invest the same sum in the
     stock of a new Mine or Rail-road company, which is divided
     into 100L. shares, on each of which say 1L. is paid, and
     there is a premium of 1L. (as is the case at this moment
     with a stock we have in our eye) his broker's account will
     then stand thus:--

     Bought 250 shares in the ---- Company.

     First instalment of 1L. paid                      £250   0   0

     Premium L. per share                               250   0   0

                                         500   0   0

     Brokerage £ per cent, on 25,000L. stock             62  10   0

                                         562  10   0

     Which will leave Mr. Adventurer to pay 62L.  10s. to his
     broker, and to pay 99L. more on each of his 250 shares, when
     the------company "call" for it!

     Or, let us reverso the case, and suppose our speculator,
     having been an original subscriber for 100 shares in the
     ---- company, and having consequently obtained them for
     nothing, wishes to sell, finding them at a premium of 6s.
     per share, and either fearing they may go lower, or not
     being able to pay even the first instalment called for by
     the directors. If he is an humble tradesman, he is perhaps
     eager to realise a profit obtained without labour, and hugs
     him-self at the idea of the hundred crowns and the hundred
     shillings he shall put into his pocket by this pleasant
     process. Away he posts to Cornhill, searches out a broker,
     into whose hands he puts the letter entitling him to the 100
     shares, with directions to sell at the current premium. The
     broker takes a turn round 'Change, finds a customer, and the
     whole affair is settled in a twinkling, by an entry or two
     in the broker's memorandum-book, and the drawing of a couple
     of cheques. Our fortunate speculator, who is anxiously
     waiting at Batson's the return of his man of business, and
     spending perhaps 3s. 6d. in bad negus and tough sandwiches,
     on the strength of his good luck, is then presented with a
     draft on a banker for 5L. neatly folded up in a small slip
     of foolscap, containing the following satisfactory
     particulars:--

     Sold 100 shares in the------company--nothing paid--prem. 6s. £30

     Brokerage, 1/4 per cent, on 10,000L. stock           25

     By cheque                                             5

     He stares wildly at this document, utterly speechless, for
     five minutes, during which the broker, after saying he shall
     be happy to "do" for him another time, throws a card on the
     table, and exit. The lucky speculator wanders into 'Change
     with the account in his hand, and appeals to several Jews to
     know whether he has not been cheated: some abuse him for the
     insinuation against so "respectable" a man as Mr.----- the
     broker; others laugh in his face; and all together hustle
     him into the street. He goes home richer by 4L.. 16s. 6d.
     than when he went out, and finds that a wealthy customer,
     having called three times in his absence to give him a
     particular order, had just left the shop in a rage, swearing
     he would no longer encourage so inattentive a tradesman.--
     Examiner.

THE LIFE, DEATH, BURIAL, AND RESURRECTION COMPANY.

CAPITAL.--ONE HUNDRED MILLIONS SHARES.--ONE POUND.

~115~~

          In this age of projectors, when bubbles are spread
          With illusive attractions to bother each head,
          When bulls, bears, jews, and jobbers all quit Capelcourt
          To become speculators and join in the sport,
          Who can wonder, when interest with intellect clashes,
          We should have a new club to dispose of our ashes;
          To rob death of its terrors, and make it delightful
          To give up your breath, and abolish the frightful
          Old custom of lying defunct in your shroud,
          Surrounded by relatives sobbing aloud?
          We've a scheme that shall mingle the "grave with the gay,"
          And make it quite pleasant to die, when you may.
          First, then, we propose with the graces of art,
          Like our Parisian friends, to make ev'ry tomb smart;
          And, by changing the feelings of funeral terrors,
          Remove what remain'd of old Catholic errors.
          Our plan is to blend in the picturesque style
          Smirke, Soane, Nash, and Wyatville all in one pile.
          So novel, agreeable, and grateful our scheme,
          That death will appear like a sweet summer's dream;
          And the horrid idea of a gloomy, cold cell,
          Will vanish like vapours of mist from a dell.

~116

          Thus changed, who'll object a kind friend to inhume,
          When his sepulchre's made like a gay drawing-room 1
          A diversified, soothing commixture of trees,
          Umbrageous and fann'd by the perfumed breeze;
          With alcoves, and bowers, and fish-ponds, and shrubs,
          Select, as in life, from intrusion of scrubs;
          While o'er your last relics the violet-turf press
          Must a flattering promise afford of success.
          "Lie light on him, earth," sung a poet of old;
          Our earth shall be sifted, and never grow cold;
          No  rude  weight on  your chest--how   like  ye   our scheme {1}
          Where your grave  will   be warm'd by a process of steam,
          Which will boil all the worms and the grubs in their holes,
          And preserve from decay ev'ry part but your souls.
          Our cemetery, centred in fancy's domain,
          Shall by a state edict eternal remain
          To all parties open, the living or dead;
          Or christian, or atheist, here rest their head,
          In a picturesque garden, and deep shady grove,
          Where young love smiles, and fashion delighteth to rove.
          To render the visitors' comforts complete,
          And afford the grieved mourners a proper retreat,
          The directors intend to erect an hotel,
          Where a table d'hôte will be furnished well;
          Not with the "cold meats of a funeral feast,"
          But a banquet that's worthy a nabob at least;
          Of lachryma christi, and fine vin de grave,
          And cordial compounds, a choice you may have.
          Twice a week 'tis proposed to illumine the scene,
          And to waltz and quadrille on the velvety green;
          While Colinet's band and the Opera Corps
          Play and dance with a spirit that's quite con amore,
          A committee of taste will superintend
          The designs and inscriptions to each latter end.

~117~~

          Take notice, no cross-bones or skulls are allowed,
          Or naked young cherubims riding a cloud;
          In short, no allusions that savour of death,
          Nor aught that reminds of a friend's parting breath.
          The inscriptions and epitaphs, elegies too,
          Must all be poetical, lively, and new;
          Such as never were heard of, or seen heretofore,
          To be written by Proctor, Sam. Rogers, or Moore.
          In lieu of a sermon, glee-singers attend,
          Who will chant, like the cherubims, praise without end.
          Three decent old women, to enliven the hours,
          Attend with gay garlands and sacred flowers,
          The emblems of grief--artificial, 'tis true,
          But very like nature in a general view.
          Lord Graves will preside, and vice-president Coffin
          Will pilot the public into the offing.
          The College of Surgeons and Humane Society
          Have promised to send a delightful variety.
          The Visitors all are physicians of fame;
          And success we may, therefore, dead certainty name.
          To the delicate nervous, who'd wish a snug spot,
          A romantic temple, or moss-cover'd grot,
          Let them haste to John Ebers, and look at the plan;
          Where the grave-book lies open, its merits to scan.
          Gloves, hatbands, and essence of onions for crying,
          White 'kerchiefs and snuff, and a cordial worth trying,
          The attendants   have   ready;   and more--as   time presses,
          No objection to bury you in fancy dresses.
          Our last proposition may frighten you much;
          We propose to reanimate all by a touch,
          By magic revive, if a century old,
          The bones of a father, a friend, or a scold.
          In short, we intend, for all--but a wife,
          To bring whom you please in a moment to life;
          That is, if the shares in our company rise,--
          If not 'tis a bubble, like others, of lies.

          --Bernard Blackmantle.

~118~~The recitation of this original jeu d'esprit had, I found, the salutary effect of clearing
my friend Transit's vision in respect to the speculation mania; and being by this time fully
accoutred and furnished with the possibles, we sallied forth to make a purchase in the public
funds. There is something to be gleaned from every event in this life, particularly by the
eccentric who is in search of characteristic matter. I had recently been introduced to a worthy
but singular personage in the city, Mr. Peter Principal, stock broker, of the firm of Hazard
and Co.--a man whose probity was never yet called in question, and who, having realized a large
property by the most honourable means, was continually selected as broker, trustee, and executor
by all his acquaintance. To him, therefore, I introduced my friend Bob, who being instantly
relieved from all his weighty troubles, and receiving in return the bank receipts, we proceeded
to explore the regions of Pluto (i.e. the money market), attended by Peter Principal as our
guide and instructor. On our entrance into Capel Court we were assailed by a motley group of
Jews and Gentiles, inhabitants of Lower Tartary (i.e. Botany Bay{2}), who, suspecting we came
there on business, addressed us in a jargon that was completely unintelligible either to Transit
or myself. One fellow inquired if I was a bull,{3} and his companion wished to know if Transit
was a bear{4}; another eagerly offered to give us five eighths, or sell us, at the same price,
for the account'{5}; while a fourth thrust his

     2 A place so named, without the Stock Exchange, where the
     lame ducks and fallen angels of Upper Tartary assemble when
     expelled the house, to catch a hint how the puff's and bangs
     succeed in the private gambling market; when if they can
     saddle their neighbour before he is up to the variation, it
     is thought good jobbing.

     3  Persons that purchase with a view for a rise in the
     funds.

     4  One who sells with a view to a fall in the price of stock.

     5 A certain future day, fixed upon by the Committee of the
     Stock Exchange, for the settlement of time bargains--they
     are usually appointed at an interval of six weeks, and the
     price of stocks on this given day determines the
     speculator's gain or loss.

~119~~copper countenance into my face, and offered to do business with me at a fiddle.{6} "Tush,
tush," said Peter Principal to the increasing multitude which now barred our passage, "we are
only come to take a look, and watch the operation of the market." "Dividend hunters{7} I suppose,"
said a knowing looking fellow, sarcastically, "ear wigging{8}--Hey, Mr. Principal, something
good for the pull out{9}? Well, if the gentlemen wish to put on the pot, although it be for
a pony,{10} I'm their man, only a little rasping,{11} you know." To this eloquent appeal succeeded
a similar application from a son of Israel, who offered to accommodate us in any way we wished,
either for the call{l2} or put{13}; to which friendly offer little Principal put his direct
negative, and, after innumerable

     6 When a broker has got money transactions of any conse-
     sequence, as there is no risk in these cases, he will fiddle
     one finger across the other, signifying by this that the
     jobber must give up half the turn of the market price to
     him, which he pockets besides his commission.

     7 Those who suppose by changing stock they get double
     interest, by receiving four dividends in one year instead of
     two; but in this they are deceived, as the jobber, when he
     changes stock, gains the advantage; for instance, if he buys
     consols at sixty, when he sells out there will be deducted
     one and a half per cent. for the dividend.

     8 When bargains are done privately by a whisper, to conceal
     the party's being a bull.

     9 Buying or selling for ready money.

     10 Pony, 25,000L.

     11 Giving greater turns to the jobbers than those regulated
     in the market.

     12  Call. Buying to call more at one-eighth or one-fourth
     above the price on a certain day, if the buyer chooses, and
     the price is in his favour.

     13  Put. Selling to put more to it on a certain day, at
     one-eighth or one-fourth under the market price.

~120~~attacks of this sort, we reached the upper end of the court, and found ourselves upon
the steps which lead to the regions of Upper Tartary, (i.e.) the Stock Exchange. At this moment
our friend Principal was summoned by his clerk to attend some antique spinster, who, having
scraped together another hundred, had hobbled down to annex it to her previous amount of consols.
"You must not attempt to enter the room by yourselves," said Principal; "but accompany me back
to the Royal Exchange, where you can walk and wait until I have completed the old lady's job."
While Principal was gone to invest his customer's stock, we amused ourselves with observing
the strange variety of character which every where presents itself among the groups of all
nations who congregate together in this arena of commerce. Perhaps a more fortunate moment
for such a purpose could not have occurred: the speculative transactions of the times had drawn
forth a certain portion of the Stock Exchange, gamblers, or inhabitants of Upper Tartary, who,
like experienced sharpers of another description, never suffer a good thing to escape them.
Capel Court was partially abandoned for exchange bubbles,{14} and new companies opened a new
system of fraudulent enrichment for these sharks of the money market.

     14 The speculative mania, which at this time raged with un-
     precedented violence among a large portion of his Majesty's
     liege subjects, gave the "John Bull" a glorious opportunity
     for one of their witty satires, in which the poet has very
     humorously described the

     BUBBLES OF 1825.

     Tune--"Run, neighbours, run."

     Run, neighbours, run, you're just in time to get a share
     In all the famous projects that amuse John Bull;
     Run, take a peep on 'Change, for anxious crowds beset us there,
     Each trying which can make himself the greatest gull.
     No sooner are they puff'd, than a universal wish there is
     For shares in mines, insurances in foreign loans and fisheries.

~121~~

     No matter where the project lies, so violent the mania,
     In Africa, New Providence, Peru, or Pennsylvania!
     Run, neighbours, run, you're just in time to get a share
     In all the famous bubbles that amuse John Bull.
     Few folks for news very anxious at this crisis are,
     For marriages, and deaths, and births, no thirst exists;
     All take the papers in, to find out what the prices are
     Of shares in this or that, upon the broker's lists.
     The doctor leaves his patient--the pedagogue his Lexicon,
     For mines of Real Monte, or for those of Anglo-Mexican:
     E'en Chili bonds don't cool the rage, nor those still more romantic, sir,
     For new canals to join the seas, Pacific and Atlantic, sir.
     At home we have projects too for draining surplus capital,
     And honest Master Johnny of his cash to chouse;
     Though t'other day, Judge Abbott gave a rather sharpish slap at all.
     And Eldon launched his thunder from the upper House.
     Investment banks to lend a lift to people who are undone--
     Proposals for Assurance--there's no end of that, in London;
     And one amongst the number, who in Parliament now press their Bills,
     For lending cash at eight per cent, on coats and inexpressibles.
     No more with her bright pails the milkman's rosy  daughter works,
     A company must serve you now with milk and cream;
     Perhaps they've some connexion with the advertising water-works,
     That promise to supply you from the limpid stream.

~122

     When Greenwich coaches go by steam on roads of iron railing, sir,
     How pleasant it will be to see a dozen in a line;
     And ships of heavy burden over hills and valleys sailing, sir,
     Shall cross from Bristol's Channel to the Tweed or Tyne.
     A tunnel underneath the sea, from Calais straight to Dover, sir,
     That qualmish folks may cross by land from shore to shore,
     With sluices made to drown the French, if e'er they would come over, sir,
     Has long been talk'd of, till at length 'tis thought a monstrous bore.
     Amongst the many scheming folks, I take it he's no ninny, sir,
     Who bargains with the Ashantees to fish the coast of Guinea, sir;
     For, secretly, 'tis known, that another brilliant view he has,
     Of lighting up the famous town of Timbuctoo with oil gas.
     Then a company is form'd, though not yet advertising,
     To build, upon a splendid scale, a large balloon,
     And send up tools and broken stones for fresh Mac-Adamizing
     The new discover'd turnpike roads which cross the moon.
     But the most inviting scheme of all is one proposed for carrying
     Large furnaces to melt the ice which hems poor Captain Parry in;
     They'll then have steam boats twice a week to all the newly-seen land,
     And call for goods and passengers at Labrador and Greenland! Every now and then there
was a rush to different parts of the arena, and an appearance of
great anxiety among the crowd to catch the attention of a person who
flourished a large parchment above their heads with all the pride and
importance of a field marshal's baton. This was, I found, no other than
the leading agent of some newly projected company, who took this method
of indulging the subscribers with shares, or letting the fortunate
applicants know how many of these speculative chances the committee had
allowed them to possess. The return of little Principal afforded me a
key to the surrounding group, without which their peculiar merits would
have been lost to the world, or have remained individually unknown, like
the profit of many of the modern speculations. "You must not suppose,"
said Principal, "that great talents make great wealth here, or that
honourable conduct and generous feelings command respect--no such thing;
men are estimated upon 'Change in proportion to the supposed amount
of their property, and rise or fall in the worldly opinion of their
associates as prosperity or adversity operates upon the barometer
of their fortunate speculations; a lucky hit will cause a dolt to
be pointed out as a clever fellow, when, the next turn of the market
proving unsuccessful, he is despised and insulted: so much are the
frequenters of 'Change influenced by the most sordid and mercenary
feelings, that almost all of them are the willing dupes of riches and
good fortune. However, as you are strangers here, gentlemen, I will
introduce you, entre nous, to a few of the characters who thrive by
the destruction of thousands of their fellow-creatures. The bashaw in
black yonder, who rests his elephantic trunk against a pillar of the
Exchange, with his hands thrust into his breeches pockets, is the Hebrew
star--the Jewish luminary, a very Shiloh among the peoples of his own
persuasion, and, I am sorry to say, much too potent ~124~~with the
orthodox ministers of George the Fourth. The fellow's insolence is
intolerable, and his vulgarity and ignorance quite unbearable.
He commenced his career in Manchester by vending trinkets and
spectacle-cases in the streets of that town, from which station he
gradually rose to the important occupation of a dealer in fag ends,
from which he ascended to the dignity of a bill-broker, when, having
the command of money, and some wealthy Hebrew relatives conveniently
distributed over the Continent for the transaction of business, he took
up his abode in London, and towards the termination of the late war,
when a terrible smash took place among some of his tribe, he found means
to obtain their confidence, and having secured, by the aid of spies, the
earliest foreign intelligence, he rapidly made a colossal fortune in the
British funds, without much risk to himself. It is said he can scarcely
write his own name, and it only requires a minute's conversation to
inform you of the general ignorance of his mind; in short, he is one of
Hazlitt's men, with only one idea, but that one entirely directed to
the accumulation of gold. A few years since some of the more respectable
members of the Stock Exchange, perceiving the thraldom in which the
public funds of the country were held by the tricks and manouvres of the
Jew party, determined to make a stand against them: among these was a
highly respected member of parliament, a great sporting character, and
a very worthy man. His losses proved excessive, but they were promptly
paid. In order to weaken his credit, and, if possible, shake his
confidence and insult his feelings, the Jew took an opportunity, during
High 'Change, of telling him, 'Dat he had got his cote and vaistcote,
and he should very soon have his shirt into de bargain:' in this
prophecy, however, Mr. Mordecai was mistaken; for the market took a
sudden turn, and the gentleman alluded to recovered all his losses in a
short time, to the great discomfiture ~125~~of the high priest and the
Jews. In private life he is equally abrupt and vulgar, as the following
anecdote will prove, at his own table: A christian broker solicited some
trifling favour, observing, he had granted what he then requested to
another member of the house, who was his brother-in-law. 'Vary true,
vary true,' said Solomon Gruff, as he is sometimes called, 'but then you
do not shleep vid my shister, my boy; dat makes all de differance.' At
present this fellow's influence is paramount at most of the courts
of Europe, at some of which his family enjoy considerable honours; in
short, he is the head of the locust tribe, and the leader of that class
of speculators whom a witty writer has well described in the following
lines, addressed to the landholders:

          'The National Debt may be esteemed a mass
          Of filth which grows corrupter every day;
          And in this heap, as always comes to pass,
          Reptiles and vermin breed, exist, decay.
          'Tis now so huge, that he must be an ass
          Who thinks it ever can be clear'd away:
          And the time's quickly coming, to be candid,
          When funded men will swallow up the landed.
          'Then will these debt-bred reptiles, hungry vermin,
          Fed from the mass corrupt of which I spoke,
          Usurp your place.    A Jew, a dirty German,
          Who has grown rich by many a lucky stroke,
          Shall rule the Minister, and all determined
          To treat your bitter sufferings as a joke.
          Said I, he shall!    It will be nothing new;
          The Treasury now is govern'd by a Jew.'

The tall dandy-looking youth standing near the great man is a scion of the former head of the
Hebrew family: his father possessed very superior talents, but was too much attached to splendid
society to die rich; his banquets were often graced by royalty, and his liberality and honourable
conduct proverbial, until misfortune produced a catastrophe that will not bear ~126~~repeating.
The very name of the sire causes a feeling of dislike in the breast of the Colossus, and consequently
the son is no partaker in the good things which the great man has to dispose of. The three
tall Jews standing together are brothers, and all members of the Stock Exchange; their affinity
to the high priest, more than their own talents, renders their fortunes promising. Observe
the pale-faced genteel-looking man.on the right hand side of the arena--that is Major G--s,
an unsuccessful speculator in the funds, but a highly honourable officer, who threw away the
proceeds of his campaigns in the Peninsula among the sharks of the Stock Exchange and the lesser
gamblers of St. James's: he has lately given to the world a sketch of his own life, under the
assumed name of 'Ned Clinton, or the Commissary,' in which he has faithfully narrated scenes
and characters. The little, jolly, fresh-coloured gentleman near him is Tommy B--h, a great
speculator in the funds, a lottery contractor, and wine merchant, and quite at home in the
tea trade. The immense fat gent behind him is called the dinner man and M. C. of Vaux hall,
of which place Tommy B--h holds a principal share; his office is to write lyrics for the lottery,
and gunpowder puffs for the Genuine Tea Company, paragraphs for Vauxhall, and spirited compositions
in praise of spiritless wines: amid all these occupations it is no wonder, considering his
bulk, that he invariably falls asleep before the dinner cloth is removed, and snores most mellifluously
between each round of the bottle. The sharp-visaged personage to the left of him is the well
known Count Bounce---------"--"Excuse me, Mr. Principal," said I, "but I happen to know that
worthy well myself; that is, I believe, Sam Dixon, the coper of Barbican, a jobber in the funds,
it would appear, as well as in horses, coaches, and chaises: of the last named article I have
had a pretty good specimen from his emporium myself, ~127~~which, I must ever remember, was
at the risk of my life.--"Do you observe that stout-looking gentleman yonder with large red
whiskers, in a drab surtout, like a stage coachman? that is the Marquis of H-----------, one
of the most fortunate gamblers (i.e. speculators) of the present day: during the war his lordship
acquired considerable sums of money by acting on his priority of political information, his
policy being to make one of the party in power, without holding office, and by this means be
at liberty to act in the money market as circumstances required: among the roués of the west
he has not been less successful in games of chance, until his coffers are crammed with riches;
but it must be admitted he is liberal in his expenditure, and often-times generous to applicants,
particularly sporting men, who seek his favours and assistance. The little club of sage personages
who are mustered together comparing notes, in the corner of the Dutch Walk, are the paragraph-writers
for the morning and evening press; very potent personages here, I assure you, for without their
kind operation the public could never be gulled to any great extent. The most efficient of
the group is the elegant-looking tall man who has just moved off to consult his patron, the
Hebrew star, who gives all his foreign information exclusively to the Leviathan of the press,
of which paper Mr. A-----------r is the representative. Next to him in importance, information,
and talent, is the reporter for the Globe and Traveller, G--------s M--------e, a shrewd clever
fellow, with considerable tact for business. Mr. F--------y, of the Courier, stands near him
on his left; and if he does but little with the stocks, he does that little well. The sandy-haired
laddie with the high cheek bones and hawk-like countenance is M'C-----------h, of the Chronicle,
but a wee bit of a wastrell in Stock Exchange affairs; and the mild-looking young gentleman
who is in ~128~~conversation with him represents the mighty little man of the Morning Herald.
The rest of the public prints are mostly supplied with Stock Exchange information by a bandy-legged
Jew, a very Solomon in funded wisdom, who pens paragraphs at a penny a line for the papers,
and puts into them whatever the projectors dictate, in the shape of a puff, at per agreement.
The knot of swarthy-looking athletic fellows, many of whom are finger-linked together, and
wear rings in their ears, are American captains, and traders from the shores of the Atlantic.
That jolly-looking ruby-faced old gentleman in black, who is laughing at the puritanical tale
of his lank brother, Alderman Shaw, is the celebrated grand city admiral, Sir W. Curtis, a
genuine John Bull, considered worth a plum at least, and the author of a million of good jokes.
Observe that quiet-looking pale-faced gentleman now crossing the arena: from the smartness
of his figure and the agility with which he bustles among the crowd, you would suppose him
an active young man of about five-and-twenty, while, in fact, about sixty summers have rolled
over his head; such are the good effects of temperance, system, and attention to diet. Here
he is known by the designation of Mr. Evergreen; a name, perhaps, affixed to him with a double
meaning, combining in view the freshness of his age and his known attachment to theatricals,
of which pursuits, as a recreation, he is devotedly fond. As a broker, lottery contractor,
and a man of business, Mr. D-----1 stands No. One for promptitude, probity, and the strictest
sense of honour; wealthy without pride, and learned without affectation, his company is eagerly
sought for by a large circle of the literati of the day, with whom, from his anecdotal powers,
he is in high repute: on stage affairs he is a living 'Biographia Dramatica,' and Charles Mathews,
it is said, owes much of his present celebrity to the early advice and persevering friendship
of this worthy man. The pair ~120~~of tall good-looking gentlemen on the French Walk are Messrs.
J. and H------S***h, merchants in the city, and authors at the west end of the town: here they
have recently been designated by the title of their last whimsical production, and now figure
as Messrs. Gaiety and Gravity, cognomens by no means inapplicable to the temper, feeling, and
talent of the witty brothers. But come," said Principal, "the 'Change is now becoming too full
to particularize, and as this is settling day at the Stock Exchange, suppose we just walk across
to the Alley, take a look at the market, and see how the account stands."--In passing down
Saint Bartholomew Lane, accident threw in our way the respected chief magistrate of the city,
John Garrett, Esq. of whose sire little Principal favoured us with some entertaining anecdotes.--"Old
Francis Garrett, who began business in the tea trade without cash, but with great perseverance
and good credit, cut up at his death for near four hundred thousand pounds, and left his name
in the firm to be retained for seven years after his decease, when his posthumous share of
the profits was to be divided among his grand-children. As he generally travelled for orders
himself, he was proverbial for despatch; and has been known to call a customer up in the morning
at four o'clock to settle his account, or disturb his repose in the night, if old Francis was
determined to make a lamp of the moon, and pursue his route. A very humorous story is related
of him. Arriving at Benson, near Henley, on a Sunday morning, just as his customer, a Mr. Newberry,
had proceeded to Church, old Francis was very importunate to prevail upon the servant-maid
to call him out, in order that he might proceed to Oxford that night: after much persuasion
she was induced to accompany him to the church, to point out the pew where her master sat.
At their entrance the eccentric figure of the tea-broker caused a general movement of recognition
among the congregation; but Francis, ~130~~nothing abashed, was proceeding up the aisle with
his cash instead of prayer-book in his hand, when his attention was arrested by the clergyman's
text, 'Paul we know, and Silas we know, but who art thou?' The singular coincidence of the
words, added to the authoritative style of the pastor, quite staggered Francis Garrett, who,
however, quickly recovering, made a low bow, and then, in a true business-like style, proceeded
to, apologize to the reverend and congregation for this seeming want of respect, adding he
was only old Francis Garrett, of Thames-street, the tea broker, whom every body knew, come
to settle a small account with his friend Mr. Newberry. The eccentricity of the man was notorious,
and this, perhaps, better than the apology, induced the clergyman to overlook the offence;
but the story will long be remembered by the good people of Benson, and never fail to create
a laugh in the commercial room among the merry society of gentlemen travellers. The son, who
has deservedly risen to the highest civic honours, is a worthy and highly honourable man, whose
conduct since he has been elected lord mayor reflects great credit upon his fellow citizens'
choice."--We had now mounted the steps which lead to the Stock Exchange, or, as Principal,
who, though one among them, may be said not to be one of them, observed, we had arrived at
the wolves' den, "the secret arcana of which place, with its curious intricacies and perplexing
paradoxical systems and principles, I shall now," continued our friend, "endeavour to explain;
from which exposition the public will be able to see the monster that is feeding on the vitals
of the country, while smiling in its face and tearing at its heart, yet cherished by it, as
the Lacedemonian boy cherished the wolf that devoured him. I am an enemy to all monopolies,"
said Principal, "and this is one of the worst the country is infested with. "A private or exclusive
market, that is, a market ~131~~into which the public have not the liberty or privilege of
either going to make, or to see made, bargains in their own persons, is one where the most
sinister arts are likely to prevail. The Stock Exchange is of this description, and accordingly
is one where the public are continually gulled out of their money by a system of the most artful
and complicated traffic--a traffic calculated to raise the hopes of novices, to puzzle the
wits of out-door speculators, and sure to have the effect of diminishing the property of those
who are not members of the fraternity.{15}

"One of the principles of the Stock Exchange is, that the public assist against themselves,
which is not the less true than paradoxical. It is contrary to the generally-received opinion
that stocks should either be greatly elevated or depressed, without some apparent cause: it
is contrary to natural inference that they should rise,--not from the public sending in to
purchase, or to buy or sell, which however frequently happens. It follows, therefore, that
the former is occasioned by the arts of the interested stock-jobbers, and the latter by out-door
speculators, who have the market price banged down upon them by those whose business and interest
it is to fleece them all they can. In the language of the Stock Exchange, you must be either
a bull or a bear, a buyer or a seller: now as it is not necessary you should have one shilling
of property in the funds to embark in this speculation, but may just as well sell a hundred
thousand pounds of stock as one pound, according to the practice of time bargains, which is
wagering contrary to law--so neither party can be compelled to complete their agreement, or
to pay whatever the difference of the amount may be upon the stock when the account closes:
all transactions

     15 The mode of exchanging stock in France is in public. A
     broker stands in the situation of an auctioneer, and offers
     it to the best bidder.

~132~~are, therefore, upon honour; and whoever declines to pay his loss is posted upon a black
board, declared a defaulter, shut out of the association, and called by the community a lame duck.

"It is not a little extraordinary, while the legislature and the judges are straining every
nerve to suppress low gambling and punish its professors, they are the passive observers of
a system pregnant with ten times more mischief in its consequences upon society, and infinitely
more vicious, fraudulent, and base than any game practised in the hells westward of Temple
Bar; but we are too much in the practice of gaping at a gnat and swallowing a camel, or the
great subscription-houses, such as White's, Brooke's, and Boodle's, would not have so long
remained uninterrupted in this particular, while the small fry that surround them, and which
are, by comparison, harmless, are persecuted with the greatest severity. As there is a natural
disposition in the human mind for gambling, and as it is visible to all the world that many
men (cobblers, carpenters, and other labourers), by becoming stock-jobbers, are suddenly raised
from fortunes of a few pounds to hundreds of thousands, therefore every falling shop-keeper
or merchant flies to this disinterested seminary with the same hope: but the jobbers, perceiving
their transactions interrupted by these persons intruding, in order to keep them at a distance,
formed themselves into a body, and established a market composed of themselves, excluding every
person not regularly known to the craft.{16} As the brokers found difficulty always to meet
with people that would accommodate them either to buy or sell without waiting in the regular

     16 An article in their by-laws expresses, that no new member
     shall be admitted who follows any other trade or business,
     or in any wise is subject to the bankrupt laws: at the same
     time it is curious to observe, that most of them are either
     soi-disant merchants or shopkeepers.

~133~~market in the Bank, to save themselves time they got accommodated among these gamblers
in buying or selling as they wished; at the same time they gave the jobber one-eighth per cent,
for such accommodation. As the loss was nothing to the broker, of course this imposition was
looked over, because it saved his own time, and did not diminish his own commission.{17} It
is clear, therefore, that the Stock Exchange is a self-constituted body, without any charter,
but merely established at the will of the members, to the support of which a subscription is
paid by each individual. They are ruled by by-laws, and judged by a committee, chosen from
among themselves. This committee, as well as the members, are regularly re-balloted once in
every year; of course no person is admitted within the walls of this house who does not regularly
pay his subscription.

"In this way has the Stock Market been established and forced from its original situation by
a set of jobbers and brokers, who are all, it will be seen, interested in keeping their transactions
from the eye of the public. These men being always ready either to buy or sell, renders it
easy for the brokers to get their business done, having no trouble but merely stepping into
the Stock Exchange. If a broker wants to buy 5000L. stock, or any other sum, for a principal,
the jobber will readily sell it, although perhaps possessing no part of it himself at the time,
but will take his chance of other brokers coming to put him in possession of it, and may have
to purchase the amount in two or three different transactions,{18} but in doing that he will
take care to call the price lower than he sold at.{19}

     17 If the system of the private market had tended to lessen
     the broker's commission, he would have gone or stood any
     where else to transact business for his principals.

     18 This at present only applies to young beginners, but old
     jobbers, who have enjoyed the system long enough, have been
     put in pos-session of large fortunes, and are now enabled to
     buy into or sell out of their own names to the amount of
     hundreds of thousands.

     19  Should other brokers not come into the market to sell to
     him, he is then obliged, at a certain hour of the day, to go
     among his brethren to get it at the most suitable price
     possible. This is sometimes the cause of a momentary rise,
     and what is known by the jobbers turning out bears for the
     day. A depression some-times takes place on the same
     principle when they are bulls for a future day, and cannot
     take stock.

~134~~After the stock is transferred from the seller to the buyer, instead of the money, he
will write you a draft on his banker, although he has no effects to discharge the same till
such time as he is put in possession of it also by the broker whom he sold it to; and it sometimes
occurs, such drafts having to pass through the clearing-house,{20} the principal is not certain
whether his money, is safe till the day following. In this way does the floating stock pass
and repass through the Stock Exchange to and from the public, each jobber seizing and laying
his hand on as much as he can, besides the eighth per cent. certain, which the established
rule gives in their favour: the price frequently gives way, or rises much more to his advantage,
which advantage is lost to the principals, and thrown into the pockets of middle men by the
carelessness and indolence of the broker, who will not trouble himself in looking out for such
persons as he might do business with in a more direct way.{21} When the Stock Market was more
public, that is, when they admitted the public by paying sixpence a day, competitors for government
loans were to be seen in numbers, which enabled ministers to make good bargains for the country{22};

     20 A room situated in Lombard-street, where the banking
     clerks meet for the mutual exchange of drafts. The principal
     business commences at three o'clock in the afternoon, and
     the balances are paid and received at five o'clock.

     21  Query,--When a broker has to buy and sell for two
     different principals, may he not act as a jobber also, and
     put the turns into his own pocket? In such cases the jobbers
     are convenient cloaks to disguise the transaction.

     22 The loans taken by Boyd and Co., Goldsmidt, and others,
     were generally contracted for upon much better terms for the
     country than those taken by the Stock Exchange; but as they
     were contending against what is known by the interests of
     the house, they all were ruined in their turns, as the
     jobbers could always depreciate the value of stocks by
     making sales for time of that they did not possess.

~135~~but, since the establishment of the present private market, the stock-jobbers have been
found to have so much power over the price of stocks, after loans had been contracted for,
that real monied men, merchants, and bankers, have been obliged to creep in under the wings
of this body of gamblers, and be satisfied with what portion of each loan this junto pleases
to deal out to them."--In this way little Principal opened the secret volume of the Stock Exchange
frauds, and exposed to our view the vile traffic carried on there by the flat-catchers of the
money market. In ordinary cases it would be a task of extreme peril for a stranger to intrude
into this sanctum sanctorum; but as our friend, the broker, was highly respected, we were allowed
to pass through unmolested--a favour that will operate in suppressing our notice of certain
characters whom we recognized within. It will, however, hardly be credited that in this place,
where every man is by profession a gambler, and sharping is the great qualification, so much
of their time is devoted to tricks and fancies that would disgrace a school-boy. Among these
the most prominent is hustling a stranger; an ungenerous and unmanly practice, that is too
often played off upon the unsuspecting, who have been, perhaps, purposely invited into the
den for the amusement of the wolves. Another point of amusement is flying a tile, or slating
a man, as the phrases of the Stock Exchange describe it. An anecdote is told of one of their
own members which will best convey an idea of this trick. One who was ever foremost in slating
his brothers, or kicking about a new castor, had himself just sported a new hat, but, with
prudence which is proverbial among the craft, he would leave his new tile at the counting-house,
~136~~and proceed to the Stock Exchange in an old one kept for the purpose: this becoming known
to some of the wags, members of the house, they despatched a note and obtained the new hat,
which no sooner made its appearance in the house than it was thrown up for general sport; a
joke in which none participated more freely than the unsuspecting owner, whose chagrin may
be very well conceived, when, on his return to his counting-house from Capel-court, he discovered
that he had been assisting in kicking his own property to pieces. Another trick of these wags
is the screwing up a number of pieces of paper longitudinally with a portion of black ink inside
them, and lying on the table before some person, whom they will endeavour to engage in serious
conversation upon the state of the market, when it is ten to one if he does not roll some of
these twisters between his fingers, and from agitation or deep thought on his approaching losses,
or the risk of his speculations, blacken his fingers and his face, to the horse-laughical amusement
of the by-standers. One of the best among the recent jokes my friend Bob has depicted to the
life. (See Plate.) The fame of Mr. Wright's brown pony had often reached the ears of his brother
brokers, but hitherto the animal himself was personally unknown: to obviate this difficulty,
some sportive wight ascertained the stable where the old gentleman usually left his nag during
the time he was attending the market, and by a well-executed forgery succeeded in bringing
the pony to Capel-court, when, without further ceremony, he was introduced into the house during
the high bustle of the market, to the no small amusement of the house and the utter astonishment
of his owner.

There is a new Stock Exchange established in Capel-court, where a number of Jews, shopkeepers,
and tradesmen assemble, and jobbers who have emigrated from their friends in the upper house,
some ~137~~of whom have either been ducks, or have retired out of it on some honourable occasion;
but as all is conducted upon honour in this traffic of gambling, these men also set up the
principle of honour, on which they risk what has been honourably brought away from their honourable
fellow labourers in the principal vineyard: these men stand generally in the Alley, and, hearing
what is going on in the other market (as they speculate also upon the price established there),
they will give advice to strangers who may be on the out-look to make, as they expect, a speedy
fortune by dabbling in the stocks. If they find a person to be respectable, they will offer
to do business with him on the principle of their brethren, and also exact the one-eighth per
cent, as they do, trusting to his honour, that (although they do not know where he lives) he
will appear on or before the settling day to balance the account, and pay or receive the difference.{23}

These jobbers speculate a great deal upon puts and calls, and will give a chance sometimes
for a mere trifle. They have not, like the private market, the public generally to work upon,
the by-laws in the Stock Exchange prohibiting any broker or jobber, being a regular member,
from dealing with them, on pain of forfeiting his right to re-enter; but, notwithstanding,
some of the brokers, and even the jobbers inside, will run all risks when there appears a good
chance of getting a turn on the price in their favour: from this cause, however, the Alley,
or New Stock Exchange jobbers, are obliged to gamble more directly with each other; consequently
many get thrown to the leeward, and those who stand longest are generally such as have other
resources from the trade or

     23 There have many lately entered into gambling transactions
     with these gentlemen, and have taken the profit so long as
     they were right in their speculations; but as soon as a loss
     came upon them, knowing they have no black board, they walk
     themselves coolly away with what they get.

~138~~occupation they carry on elsewhere. From this place, called by the members of the house
Lower Tartary, or Hell, the next step of degradation, when obliged to waddle out of the court,
is the Rotunda of New Botany Bay. Here may be seen the private market in miniature; a crowd
of persons calling themselves jobbers and brokers, and, of course, a market to serve any person
who will deal with them; the same system of ear-wigging, nods, and winks, is apparent, and
the same fiddling, rasping, and attempts at overreaching each other, as in Upper Tartary, or
the Den; and of course, while they rasp and fiddle, their principals have to pay for the music:
but as no great bargains are contracted here (these good things being reserved for a select
few in the private market), the jobbers, who are chiefly of little note, are glad if they can
pick up a few shillings for a day's job, by cutting out money stock for servants' and other
people's small earnings. Here may be seen my lord's footman from the west end of the town,
who is a great politician, and knows for a certainty that the stocks will be down; therefore
he wants to sell out his 50L. savings, to get in at less: here also may be some other lord's
footman, who has taken a different view of things, and wants to buy; and, although their respective
brokers might meet each other, and transact business in a direct way, at a given price, notwithstanding
they either do, or they pretend to have given the jobbers the turn,{24} that is, the one sold
at one-eighth, and the other bought at one-fourth.--This market, as in the Alley, is ruled
by the prices established in the private gambling market, which being the case, some will have
messengers running to and from this market to see how the puffs and bangs proceed; and if they
can saddle their neighbour before he knows the price is changed, it is thought good jobbing.
From the Stock

     24 Some act both as jobbers and brokers, and will charge a
     com-mission for selling their own stock.

~139~~Exchange to the Rotunda, every where, it will be perceived, a system of gambling and
deception is practised upon the public, and the country demoralized and injured by a set of
men who have no principle but interest, and acknowledge no laws but those of gain.

As this was settling-day, we had the gratification to observe one unfortunate howled out of
the craft for having speculated excessively; and not being able or willing to pay his differences,
he was compelled to waddle{25}; which he did, with a slow step and melancholy countenance,
accompanied by the hootings and railings of his unfeeling tribe, as he passed down the narrow
avenue from Upper Tartary, proclaimed to the lower regions and the world

A LAME DUCK

     25 Those who become ducks are not what are termed true
     jobbers; they are those who either job or speculate, or are
     half brokers and half jobbers, and are left to pay out-door
     speculators' accounts; or if a jobber lend himself to get
     off large amounts of stock, in cases where the broker does
     not wish the house to know he is operating, he generally
     gives him an immediate advantage in the price in a private
     bargain; this is termed being such-a-one's bawd.

THE ISLE OF WIGHT.

~140~~

          Garden of England! spangle of the wave!
          Loveliest spot that Albion's waters lave!
          Hail, beauteous isle! thou gem of perfumed green,
          Fancy's gay region, and enchantment's scone.
          Here where luxuriant Nature pours,
          In frolic mood, her choicest stores,
          Bedecking with umbrageous green
          And richest flowers the velvet scene,
          Begirt by circling ocean's swell,
          Enrich'd by mountain, moor, and dell;
          Here bright Hygeia, queen of Health,
          Bestows a gift which bankrupts wealth.

     The Oxford Student--Reflections on the Close of a Term--The
     Invitation--Arrival at Southampton--Remarks--The Steam Boat--
     Advantages of Steam--Voyage to the Isle of Wight--
     Southampton Water--The Solent Sea and surrounding Scenery--
     Marine Villas, Castles, and Residences--West Cowes--Its
     Harbour and Attractions--The Invalid or the Convalescent--
     The Royal Yacht Club--Circular in Rhyme--Aquatic Sports
     considered in a National Point of Vieio--A Night on board
     the Rover Yacht--The Progress of Navigation--The
     Embarkation--The Soldier's Wife--Sketches of Scenery
     and Characters--Evening Promenaders--Excursions in the
     Island, to Ryde, Newport, Shanklin Chine, Bonchurch, the
     Needle Rocks--Descriptive Poetry--Morning, Noon, and Night--
     The Regatta--The Pilot's Review--The Race Ball--Adieu to
     Vectis.

The Oxford commemoration was just over, and the Newdigate laurels graced the brow of the victor;
the ~l4l~~last concert which brings together the scattered forces of alma mater, on the eve
of a long vacation, had passed off like the note of the cygnet; the rural shades of Christchurch
Meadows were abandoned by the classic gownsmen, and the aquatic sons of Brazen-nose and Jesus
had been compelled to yield the palm of marine superiority to their more powerful opponents,
the athletic men of Exeter. The flowery banks of Isis no longer presented the attractive evening
scene, when all that is beautiful and enchanting among the female graces of Oxford sport like
the houris upon its velvet shores, to watch the prowess of the college youth: The regatta had
terminated with the term; even the High Street, the usually well-frequented resort of prosing
dons, and dignitaries, and gossiping masters of arts, bore a desolate appearance. Now and then,
indeed, the figure of a solitary gownsman glanced upon the eye, but it was at such long and
fearful intervals, and then, vision-like, of such short duration, that, with the closed oaks
of the tradesmen, and the woe-begone faces of the starving scouts and bed-makers, a stranger
might have imagined some ruthless plague had swept away, "at one fell swoop," two-thirds of
the population of Rhedycina. It was at this dull period of time, that a poor student, having
passed successfully the Scylla and Charybdis of an Oxonian's fears, the great go and little
go, and exhausted by long and persevering efforts to obtain his degree, had just succeeded
in adding the important academical letters to his name, when he received a kind invitation
from an old brother Etonian to spend a few weeks with him in the Isle of Wight, "the flowery
seat of the Muses," said Horace Eglantine, (the inviter), "and the grove of Hygeia; the delightful
spot, above all others, best calculated to rub off the rust of college melancholy, engendered
by hard reading, invigorate the studious mind, and divest the hypochrondriac of la maladie
~142~~imaginaire!'" "And where," said Bernard Blackmantle, reasoning within himself, "is the
student who could withstand such an attractive summons? Friendship, health, sports, and pleasures,
all combined in the prospective; a view of almost all the blessings that render life desirable;
the charm that binds man to society, the medicine that cures a wounded spirit, and the cordial
which reanimates and brightens the intellectual faculties of the philosopher and the poet;
in short, the health-inspiring draught, without which the o'ercharged spirit would sink into
earth, a prey to black despondency, or linger out a wearisome existence only to become a gloomy
misanthrope, a being hateful to himself and obnoxious to all the world." With nearly as much
alacrity as the lover displays when, on the wings of anticipated delight, he hastes to seek
the beloved of his soul, did I, Bernard Blackmantle, pack up my portmanteau, and make the best
of my way to Southampton, from which place the steam boat conveys passengers, morning and evening,
to and from the island. Southampton has in itself very little worthy the notice of the lover
of the characteristic and the humorous, at least that I discovered in a few hours' ramble.
It is a clean well-built town, of considerable extent and antiquity, particularly its entrance
gate, enlivened by numerous elegant shops, whose blandishments are equally attractive with
the more fashionable magazines de modes of the British metropolis. The accommodations for visitors
inclined to bathe or walk have been much neglected, and the vapours arising from its extended
shores at low water are, in warm weather, very offensive; but the influx of strangers is, nevertheless,
very great, from its being the port most eligible to embark from for either Havre de Grace,
Guernsey, Jersey, or the Isle of Wight. The market here is accounted excellent, and from this
source the visitors of Cowes are principally ~143~~supplied with fruit, fish, fowl, and delicacies.
The steam boat is a new scene for the painter of real life, and the inquisitive observer of
the humorous and eccentric. The facility it affords of a quick and certain conveyance, in defiance
of wind and tide, ensures its proprietors, during the summer months, a harvest of success.
Its advantages I have here attempted to describe in verse, a whim written during my passage;
and this will account for the odd sort of measure adopted, which I attribute to the peculiar
motion of the vessel, and the clanking of the engine; for, as everybody knows, poets are the
most susceptible of human beings in relation to local circumstances.

          THE ADVANTAGES OF STEAM.

          If Adam or old Archimedes could wake as from a dream,
          How the ancients would be puzzled to behold
          Arts, manufactures, coaches, ships, alike impell'd by steam;
          Fire and water changing bubbles into gold.
          Steam's universal properties are every day improving,
          All you eat, or drink, or wear is done by steam;
          And shortly it will be applied to every thing that's moving,
          As an engine's now erecting to write novels by the ream.
          Fine speeches in the parliament, and sermons 'twill deliver;
          To newspapers it long has been applied;
          In King's Bench Court or Chancery a doubtful question shiver
          With an argument already "cut and dried."
          Its benefits so general, and uses so extensive,
          That steam ensures the happiness of all mankind;
          We grow rich by its economy, and travel less expensive
          To the Indies or America, without the aid of wind.

Here we are, then, on board the steam boat, huge clouds of smoke rolling over our heads, and
the reverberatory paddles of the engine just beginning to cut the bosom of Southampton Water.
Every where the eye of the traveller feasts with delight upon the surrounding scenery and objects,
while his cranium is protected from the too powerful heat of a summer's ~144~~sun by an elegant
awning spread from side to side of the forecastle, and under which he inhales the salubrious
and saline breezes, enjoying an uninterrupted prospect of the surrounding country. On the right,
the marine villas of Sir Arthur Pagett and Sir Joseph Yorke, embowered beneath the most luxuriant
foliage, claim the notice of the traveller; and next the antique ruins of Netley Abbey peep
out between the portals of a line of rich majestic trees, bringing to the reflective mind reminiscences
of the past, of the days of superstition and of terror, when the note of the gloomy bell reverberated
through the arched roofs the funeral rite of some departed brother, and, lingering, died in
gentle echoings beneath the vaulted cloisters, making the monkish solitude more horrible; but
now, as Keate has sung,

          "Mute is the matin bell, whose early call
          Warn'd the gray fathers from their humble beds;
          No midnight taper gleams along the wall,
          Or round the sculptured saint its radiance sheds."

At the extremity of the New Forest, and commanding the entrance to the river, the picturesque
fort called Calshot Castle stretches forth, like the Martello Towers in the Bay of Naples,
an object of the most romantic appearance; and at a little distance from it rises the stately
tower of Eaglehurst, with its surrounding pavilions and plantations. To the westward is the
Castle of Hurst; and now opens to the astonished traveller's view the Wight, extending eastward
and westward far as the eye can compass, but yet within its measurement from point to point.

          ------"Here in this delicious garden is
          Variety without end; sweet interchange
          Of hills and valleys, rivers, woods, and plains;
          Now land, now sea, and shores with forests crown'd,
          Rocks, dens, and caves."

The coast presents a combination of romantic, pastoral, and marine beauties, that are deservedly
the ~145~~theme of admiration, and certainly no spot of the same extent, in the three kingdoms,
perhaps in the world, can boast of such a diversity of picturesque qualities, of natural charms,
and local advantages--attractions which have justly acquired for it the emphatic distinction
of the Garden of England. Every where the coast is adorned with cottages or villas, hill or
vale, enriched by the most luxuriant foliage, and crowned in the distance by a chain of lofty
downs; while in front the coasts of Gosport and Portsmouth, and that grand naval station for
England's best bulwarks, Spithead, present a forest of towering masts and streamers, which
adds much to the natural grandeur of the scene. As we near Cowes we are delighted with a variety
of striking objects: The chaste and characteristic seat of Norris, the residence of Lord Henry
Seymour, massive in its construction, and remarkable for the simplicity of its style and close
approximation to the ancient castle. On the brow of the hill the picturesque towers of East
Cowes Castle rise from a surrounding grove, and present a very beautiful appearance, which
is materially increased upon nearer inspection by the rapid spread of the deep-hued ivy clinging
to its walls, and giving it an appearance of age and solidity which is admirably relieved by
the diversity of the lighter foliage. On the other side projects from a point westward Cowes
Castle, the allotted residence of the governor, but now inhabited by the Marquis of Anglesey
and his family, to whose partiality for aquatic sports Cowes is much indebted for its increasing
consequence and celebrity. The building itself, although much improved of late, is neither
picturesque nor appropriate; but the adjoining scenery, and particularly the marine villas
of Lord Grantham and the late Sir J. C. Hippesley, have greatly increased the beauty of the
spot, which first strikes the eye of a stranger in his progress to West Cowes from ~146~~Southampton
Water. The town itself rises like an amphitheatre from the banks of a noble harbour, affording
security and convenience for large fleets of ships to ride at anchor safely, or to winter in
from stress of weather, or the repair of damages. But here ends my topographical sketches for
the present. The inspiring air of "Home, sweet Home," played by the steward upon the key bugle,
proclaims our arrival; the boat is now fast drawing to her moorings at the Fountain Quay, the
boatmen who flock along-side have already solicited the care of my luggage, and the hand of
my friend, Horace Eglantine, is stretched forth to welcome my arrival at West Cowes.

The first salutations over with my friend Eglantine, I could not help expressing my surprise
at the sailor-like appearance of his costume. "All the go here, old fellow," said Horace; "we
must start that long-tailed gib of yours for a nice little square mizen, just enough to cover
your beam and keep your bows cool; so bear a hand, my boy, and let us drop down easy to our
births, and when properly rigged you shall go on board my yacht, the Rover, and we will bear
away for the westward. Only cast off that sky scraper of yours before the boom sweeps it overboard,
and cover your main top with a Waterloo cap: there, now, you are cutter rigg'd, in good sailing
trim, nothing queer and yawl-like about you." In this way I soon found myself metamorphosed
into a complete sailor, in appearance; and as every other person of any condition, from the
marquis downwards, adopted the same dress, the alteration was indispensably necessary to escape
the imputation of being considered a Goth. Among the varied sports in which the nobility and
gentry of England have at any time indulged, or that have, from the mere impulse of the moment
and the desire of novelty, become popular, none have been more truly national and praiseworthy
than the establishment of the Royal Yacht Club. The promotion ~147~~of aquatic amusement combines
the soundest policy in the pursuit of pleasure, two points but rarely united; in addition to
which it benefits that class of our artizans, the shipwrights, who, during a time of profound
peace, require some such auxiliary aid; nor is it less patriotic in affording employment to
sea-faring men, encouraging the natural characteristic of Britons, and feeding and fostering
a branch of service upon which the country must ever rely for its support and defence in time
of peril. To the owners it offers advantages and attractions which are not, in other pursuits,
generally attainable; Health here waits on Pleasure,--Science benefits by its promotion,--friends
may partake without inconvenience or much additional expense,--travel is effected with economy,--and
change of scene and a knowledge of foreign coasts obtained without the usual privations and
incumbrances attendant upon the public mode of conveyance. By a recent regulation, any gentleman's
pleasure yacht may enter the ports of France, or those of any other power in alliance with
England, exempted from the enormous exactions generally extorted from private and merchant
vessels, as harbour and other dues,--a privilege of no mean consequence to those who are fond
of sailing. In addition, there are those, and of the service too, who contend, that since the
establishment of the Royal Yacht Club, by their building superior vessels, exciting emulation,
and creating a desire to excel in naval architecture, and also by the superiority of their
sailing, the public service of the country has been much benefited, particularly as regards
our lighter vessels, such as revenue cutters and cruizers. This club, which originated with
some gentlemen at Cowes in the year 1815, now comprises the name of almost every nobleman and
gentleman in the kingdom who keeps a yacht, and is honoured with that of the sovereign, and
other members of his family, ~148~~as its patrons. Cowes Harbour is the favourite rendezvous;
and here in the months of July and August may be seen above one hundred fine vessels built
entirely for purposes of pleasure, and comprising every size and variety of rigging, from a
ship of three hundred tons burthen to the yawl of only eight or ten. It was just previous to
that delightful spectacle, the regatta, taking place, when the roads and town presented an
unusually brilliant appearance, that I found myself agreeably seated on board the Rover, a
cutter yacht of about thirty tons, who, if she was not fitted up with all the superiority of
many of those which surrounded me, had at least every comfortable and necessary accommodation
for half a dozen visitors, without incommoding my friend Horace or his jovial crew.

I had arrived at Cowes a low-spirited weakly invalid, more oppressed in mind than body; but
a few trips with my friend Eglantine to sea, on board the Rover, and some equally pleasant
rambles among the delightful scenery which surrounds the bay of Cowes, had in one week's residence
banished all symptoms of dispepsia and nervous debility, and set the master of arts once more
upon his legs again. Some idea of my condition, on leaving alma mater, may be obtained by the
following effusion of my Muse, who, to do her justice, is not often sentimental, unless when
sickness presses her too close.

          THE INVALID.

          Light-hearted Mirth and Health farewell,
          Twin sisters of my youthful days,
          Who through life's early spangled dell
          Would oft inspire my humble lays.

          Fancy, cameleon of the mind,
          The poet's treasure, life, and fame,
          Thou too art fled, with wreath to bind
          The budding of some happier name.

~149~~

          Oppression's sway, or fortune's frown,
          My buoyant spirits once could bear;
          But now chimeras press me down,
          And all around seems fell despair.

          With fev'rish dreams and frenzied brain,
          When Hecate spreads her veil, I'm crost;
          My body sinks a prey to pain,
          And all but lingering hope is lost.

With the return of health and spirits, Horace insisted I should write the "L'Allegro" to this
"Il Penseroso" effusion. So, finding the jade had recovered her wonted buoyancy, I prayed her
mount on gayest wing, and having spread her pinions to the sun, produced the following impromptu.

          THE CONVALESCENT.

          Welcome, thou first great gift below,
          Hygeian maid, with rosy glow,
          Thrice welcome to my call.
          Let misers hug their golden store,
          I envy none the servile ore;
          To me thou art all in all.

          Thou spring of life, and herald fair,
          Whose charm dispels disease and care,
          And yields a summer joy,
          All hail! celestial seraph, hail!
          Thou art the poet's coat of mail,
          His mirth without alloy.

There is a prepossessing something in the life of a sailor which improves the natural attachment
of Englishmen to every thing nautical; so much so, that I never heard of one in my life who
was not, after a single trip, always fond of relating his hair-breadth perils and escapes,
and of seizing every opportunity to display his marine knowledge by framing his conversation
ship shape, and decorating his oratory with a few of those lingual localisms, which to a landsman
must be almost unintelligible without the aid of ~150~~a naval glossary. A fortnight's tuition
under the able auspices of my friend Horace had brought me into tolerable good trim in this
particular; I already knew the difference between fore and aft, a gib, a mainsail, and a mizen;could
hand a rope, or let go the foresail upon a tack; and having gained the good opinion of the
sailing captain, I was fast acquiring a knowledge how to box the binnacle and steer through
the Needle's Eye. But, my conscience! as the Dominie says, I could never learn how to distinguish
the different vessels by name, particularly when at a little distance; their build and rigging
being to my eye so perfectly similar. In all this, however, my friend Horace was as completely
at home as if he had studied naval architecture at the college; the first glance of a vessel
was quite enough for him: like an old sportsman with the pedigree of a horse or a dog, only
let him see her, through his glass head or stern, or upon a lee lurch, and he would hail her
directly, specify her qualities and speed, tell you where she was built, and who by, give you
the date of her register, owner's name, tonnage, length and breadth of her decks, although
to the eye of the uninitiated there was no distinguishing mark about her, the hull being completely
black, and the rigging, to a rope, like every other vessel of the same class. "For instance,"
said Horace, "who could possibly mistake that beautiful cutter, the Pearl? See how she skims
along like a swan with her head up, and stern well under the wind! Then, look at her length;
there's a bowsprit, my boy! full half the measurement of her hull; and her new mainsail looks
large enough to sweep up every breath of wind between the sea and the horizon. Then only direct
your fore lights to her trim; every rope just where it should be, and not a line too much;
and when she fills well with a stiff breeze, not a wrinkle in all her canvas from the gib to
the gaff topsail. Then observe how she dips in the bows, and what a breadth she ~151~~has;
why she's fit for any seas; and if the Arrow ever shoots past her, I'll forfeit every shot
in my lockers." "Avast there! master Horace," said our master at the helm, who was an old Cowes
pilot, and as bluff as a Deal sea-boat; "the Pearl is a noble sailer; but a bird can't fly
without wings, nor a ship run thirteen knots an hour without a good stiff breeze. If the light
winds prevail, the Arrow will have the advantage, particularly now she's cutter rigged, and
has got the marquis's old mainsail up to take the wind out of his eye." "Ay, ay," said Horace,
"you must tell that story to the marines, old boy; it will never do for the sailors." "Mayhap,
your honours running right a-head with the Pearl, and betting your blunt all one way; but,
take an old seaman's advice; may I get no more rest than a dog-vane, or want a good grego{1}
in a winter's watch, if I don't think you had better keep a good look-out for the wind's changing
aft; and be ready to haul in your weather-braces, and bear the back-stays abreast the top-br'im,
ere the boatswain's mate pipes the starboard-watch a-hoy." "Tush, tush, old fellow," said Horace,
with whom I found Lord Anglesey's cutter stood a one at Lloyd's. "May my mother sell vinegar,
and I stay at home to bottle it off, if I would give a farthing per cent, to be ensured for
my whole risk upon the grand match! Mind your weather roll, master--belay every inch of that.
There now; look out a-head; there's the Liberty giving chase to the Julia, and the Jack-o'lantern
weathering the Swallow upon every tack. His Grace of Norfolk won't like that; but a pleasure
hack must not be expected to run against a thorough-bred racer. There is but one yawl in the
club, and that is the little Eliza, that can sail alongside a cutter; but then Sir George Thomas
is a tar for all weathers--a true blue jacket--every thing so snug--cawsand rig--no topmasts--all
so square and trim, that nothing of his bulk can

     1 A watch-coat.

~152~~beat him." In this way my friend Eglantine very soon perfected me in nautical affairs,
or, to use his expression, succeeded in putting a "timber head in the ship;" and the first
use I made of my newly acquired information was to pen a jeu d'esprit, in the way of a circular
in rhyme, inviting the members of the Royal Yacht Club to assemble in Cowes-roads. The whim
was handed about in MS., and pleased more from its novelty than merit; but as it contains a
correct list of the club at this period, and as the object of the English Spy is to perpetuate
the recollections of his own time, I shall here introduce it to the notice of my readers.

A CIRCULAR,

ADDRESSED TO THE MEMBERS OP THE ROYAL YACHT CLUB.

Come, lads, bend your sails; o'er the blue waters thronging, In barks like the sea-mew that
skims o'er the lave; All you to the Royal Yacht squadron belonging, Come, muster at Cowes,
for true sport on the wave.{1} First our king,{2} Heaven bless him! who's lord of the sea,
And delights in the sport of the circling wave, Commands you attend him wherever ye be, Sons
of ocean, ye loyal, ye witty, and brave. Here Anglesey,{3} Waterloo's hero, shall greet ye;

     1 The club generally assemble in Cowes-roads about the
     middle of July to commence their aquatic excursions, which
     are continued

     until after the Regatta in August.

     2 His Majesty is graciously pleased to honour the club by
     becoming its patron.

     3 The Marquis of Anglesey is a principal promoter of this
     truly British sport, and resides with his family at Cowes
     Castle during the season. The Pearl cutter, 113 tons, and
     the Liberty cutter, 42 tons, are both his property.

~153~~

The Pearl, and the Liberty, cutters in trim, The Welds {4} in the Arrow and Julia too meet
ye, The match for eight hundred affording you whim. Here Grantham{5} his Nautilus, steer'd
by old Hollis, Shall cut through the wave like a beautiful shell; And Symonds{6} give chase
in the yawl the Cornwallis, And Webster{7} the Scorpion manage right well; And Williams{8}
the younger, and Owen{9} his dad, From the shores of Beaumaris have run the Gazelle; And Craven{10}
his May-fly wings o'er like a lad That is used to the ocean, and fond of its swell. Come, lads,
bear a hand--here's Sir George hove in sight, With his little Eliza{11} so snug and so trim;
Tan sails, cawsand rigg'd--for all weather she's tight; You must sail more than well, if you
mean to beat him. Then steady, boys, steady--here's Yarborough's{12} Falcon, A very fine ship,
but a little too large; And here is a true son of Neptune to talk on, Vice-Admiral Hope,{13}
K.CB. in his barge.

     4 Joseph and James Welds, Esqrs., of Southampton, the
     wealthy and spirited owners of the Arrow yawl, 85 tons, and
     the Julia, 43 tons. These gentlemen evince the greatest
     spirit in challenging and sailing any of the club.

     5 Lord Grantham, Nautilus, Cutter, 103 tons, a new and very
     fast sailer.

     Owner                            Vessel          Class     Tons

     6 Capt. J. C. Symonds, R.N.  Adm. Cornwallis     Yawl        22

     7 Sir Godfrey Webster        Scorpion,           Cutter     110

     8 T. P. Williams, Esq.,      Hussar,             Schooner,  120
                    and the       Blue-eyed Maid,     Cutter,     39

     9 Owen Williams, Esq.        Gazelle             Cutter      87

     10 Earl Craven               May-fly             Yawl        39

     11 Sir George Thomas, Bart.  Eliza               Yawl        34

     12 Lord Yarborough           Commodore Falcon    Ship       335

     13 Vice-Admiral Sir W. Johnston Hope, K.C.B., who is here in
     one of the Admiralty yachts.

~154~~

     Come,  lads, spread your canvas for health  and for pleasure,
     For both are combined in this true British sport;
     Come, muster in Cowes-roads without further leisure,
     Blue jackets and trowsers for dresses at court.
     See Deerhurst{14} his Mary sticks to like a lover,
     And Lindegren's{15}Dove wings it over the main;
     Powell's {16} Briton, 'tis very well known, is a rover,
     In Union the Pagets{17}must ever remain;
     Here's Smith's {18 }Jack o'lantern and Chamberlayne's Fairy,{19}
     Earl Harborough's{20} Ann, and F. Pake's Rosabelle{21}
     Lord Willoughby's {22} Antelope, Penleaze's {23}Mary,
     And Gauntlet's{24}Water-sprite sails very well.
     Come, jolly old Curtis,{25} bear up in your Emma,
     Eight cheerily laden with turtle and port;
     And Melville{26} set sail if you'd scape the dilemma
     Of being too late for our aquatic sport.
     See Norfolk {27}already is here in the Swallow,
     And the Don Giovanni a challenge has sent,
     Which Lyons {28} accepts, and intends to beat hollow,
     That is if the Londoner should not repent.

     Owner                        Vessel

     14 Viscount Deerhurst        Mary

     15 J. Lindegren, Esq.        Dove.

     16 J. B. Powell, Esq.        Briton

     17  Right Hon. Sir A. Paget  Union

     18 T. A. Smith, jun. Esq.    Jack o'lantern

     19 W. Chamberlayne, Esq.     Fairy

     20  Earl of Harborough       Ann

     21 F. Pare, Esq.             Rosabelle

     22 Lord Willoughby do Broke  Antelope

     23 J. S. Penleaze, Esq.      Mary

     24 Captain J. Gauntlet       Water Sprite

     25 Sir William Curtis, Bart. Rebecca Maria,   Yawl,      76 tons.
                   and            Emma,            Schooner, 132 tons.

     26  Lord Melville            Admiralty Yacht            100

     27  Duke of Norfolk          Swallow          Yawl      124

     28 Captain Edmund Lyons (the polar navigator) had just
     launched the Queen Mab.

~155~~

     But look, what a crowd of fine yachts are arriving!
     The Elizabeth,{29 }Unicorn,{30} Cygnet,{31} and Jane,{32}
     The Eliza, Sabrina,{33} Madora,{34} all striving
     To beat one another as coursing the main.
     A fleet of small too, at anchor are riding;
     The Margaret{35} Sapphire,{36} the Molly,{37} and Hind,{38}
     The Orion,{39} and Dormouse{40} and Janette{41}abiding
     The time when each vessel shall covet the wind.
     Then, boys, bend your sails, and weigh for  our regatta,
     We've a  Sylph?{42 and a  Rambler{43} and a Merry Maid,{44}
     A Syren{45} a Cherub{46} a Charlotte{47} and at her
     A Corsair(48} who looks as if nothing afraid.
     Here the Lord of  the Isles{49} and freebooter Rob Roy,{50}
     By a Will o' the Wisp{51} are led over the deep;

     29 J. Fleming, Esq.
      Elizabeth

     30 H. Perkins, Esq.
      Unicorn,

     31 J. Reynolds, Esq.
      Cygnet

     32 Hon. William Hare
      Jane

     33 James Maxie, Esq.
      Sâbrina

     34 H. Hopkins, Esq.
      Madora

     35 Hon. William White
      Margaret

     36 James Dundas, Esq.
      Sapphire

     37 Lieutenant-Colonel Harris
      Charming Molly

     38 Capt. Herringham, R.N.
      Hind

     39 James Smith, Esq.
      Orion

     40. P. Peach, Esq.
      Dormouse

     41 Capt. C. Wyndham, R.N.
      Janette

     42 R. W. Newman, Esq.
      Sylph

     43 J. H. Durand, Esq.
      Jolly Rambler

     44 Joseph Gulston, Esq.
      Merry-maid

     45 T. Lewin, Esq.
      Syren

     46 T. Challen, Esq.
      Cherub

     47 John Vassall, Esq.
      Charlotte

     48 Corbett, Esq.
      Corsair

     49 Colonel Seale
      Lord of the Isles

     50 W. Gaven, Esq.
      Rob Roy

     51 E. H. Dolatield, Esq.
      Will o' the Wisp

     And  the  Highland  Lass{52}   blushes   a   welcome   of joy,
     As alongside the Wombwell{53} she anchors to sleep.
     Here the Donna del Lago{54} consorts with Rostellan,{55}
     To the New Grove,{56} Lord Nelson{57} Louisa {58} attends,
     Galatea{59} runs a Harrie{60} in chase of the Erin,{61}
     And here with the Club List my Circular ends.

     Owner                        Vessel              Class     Tons

     52 Lieut.-Gen. Mackenzie     Highland Lass       Yawl       25

     53 T. Harman, Esq.           Wombivell           Cutter     33

     54 S. Halliday, Esq.         Lady of Die Lake    Yawl       42

     55 Marquis of Thoruond       Rostellan           Schooner   60

     56 John Roche, Esq.          New Grove           Cutter     24

     57 Reverend C. A. North      Lord Nelson         Cutter     75

     58 Arch. Swinton, Esq.       Louisa              Yawl       24

     59 C. R. M. Talbot, Esq.     Galatea             Schooner  179

     60 Sir R. J. A. Kemys        Harrier             Schooner   36

     61 T. Allen, Esq.            Erin                Schooner   94

~156~~

"A right merrie conceit," said Horace, "and a good-humoured jingle that must be gratifying
to all mentioned, and will serve as a record of the present list of the Yacht Club to future
times. We must petition the commodore to enter you upon the ship's books as poet-laureate to
the squadron: you shall pen lyrics for our annual club-dinner at East Cowes, compose sea-chants
for our cabin jollifications, sing the praises of our wives and sweethearts, and write a congratulatory
ode descriptive of our vessels, crews, and commanders, at the end of every season; and your
reward shall be a birth on board any of the fleet when you choose a sail, and a skin-full of
grog whenever you like to command it. So come, old fellow, give us a spice of your qualifications
for your new office; something descriptive of the science of navigation, from its earliest
date to the perfection of a first-rate man of war."

~157~~

THE PROGRESS OF NAVIGATION,

AN ORIGINAL SONG;

Dedicated to the Members of the Royal Yacht Club.

          In the first dawn of science, ere man could unfold
          The workings of nature, or valued dull gold;
          Ere yet he had ventured to dare ocean's swell,
          Or could say by the moon how the tides rose and fell;
          A philosopher seated one day on the brink
          Of the silvery margin thus took him to think:
          "If on this side the waters are girted by land,
          What controls the wide expanse, I'd fain understand."
          Thus buried in thought had he ponder'd till now,
          But a beautiful nautilus sail'd to and fro;
          Just then a sly breeze raised the curls from his eyes,
          And he woke from a dream to extatic surprise.
          O'er his head a huge oak spread a canopy round,
          Whose trunk being hollow, he levell'd to ground;
          With a branch form'd a mast, and some matting a sail,
          And thus rudely equipp'd dared the perilous gale;
          Of the winds and the waves both the mercy and sport,
          His bark was long tost without guidance to port,
          And the storms of the ocean went nigh to o'erwhelm,
          When the tail of the dolphin suggested a helm.
          Ry degrees, the canoe to a cutter became,
          And order and form newly-moulded the same,
          Ropes, rigging, and canvas, and good cabin room,
          A bowsprit, a mizen, a gib, and a boom.
          From the cutter, the schooner, brig, frigate arose;
          Till Britons, determined to conquer their foes,
          Built ships like to castles, they call'd men of war,
          The fame of whose broadsides struck terror afar.
          Now boldly, philosophy aided by skill,
          Bent his course o'er the blue waters sailing at will,
          But dubious the track, for as yet 'twas unknown
          How to steer 'twixt the poles for a north or south zone,

~158~~

          Till the magnet's attraction, by accident found,
          Taught man how the globe he could traverse around;
          New worlds brought to light, and new people to view,
          And by commerce connected Turk, Christian, and Jew.
          All this while, father Neptune lay snug in his bed,
          Till he heard a sad riot commence o'er his head,
          Folks firing, and fighting, and sailing about,
          When his godship popp'd up just to witness the rout;
          It happen'd in one of those actions to be
          When Europe combined fought the isle of the sea,
          And, as usual, were conquer'd, sunk, fired, or run,
          That old Neptune acknowledged each Briton his son.
          "From this time," said his godship, "henceforth, be it known,
          Little England's the spot for the ocean-king's throne;
          And this charter I grant, and enrol my decree,
          That my brave sons, the Britons, are lords of the sea."

"There's nothing like a good song," said Horace, "for conveying information on nautical subjects,
or promoting that national spirit which is the pride and glory of our isle. I question if the
country are not more indebted to old Charles Dibdin for his patriotic effusions during the
late war, than to all the psalm-singing admirals and chaplains of the fleet put together. I
know that crab Gambier, and the methodist privateers who press all sail to pick up a deserter
from the orthodox squadron, do a great deal of mischief among our seamen; for as Corporal Trim
says, 'What time has a sailor to palaver about creeds when it blows great guns, or the enemies
of his country heave in sight? a sailor's religion is to perform his duty aloft and do good
below; honour his king, love his girl, obey his commander, and burn, sink, and destroy the
foes of his country.' Here we have an occasional exhibition of this sort on board the depot
vessel in the harbour, when the Bethel flag ~159~~is hoisted, and the voice of the puritan
is heard from East Cowes to Eaglehurst; as if there were not already conventicles enough on
shore for those who are disposed to separate themselves from the established church, without
the aid of a floating chapel, furnished by the government agent to subvert the present order
of things. On this point, you know, I was always a liberal thinker, but a firm friend to the
church, as being essential to the best interests of the state. An old college chum of ours,
who has been unusually fortunate in obtaining ecclesiastical preferment, thought proper to
send me a friendly lecture in one of his letters the other day on this subject, to which I
returned the following answer, and put an end to his scruples, as I think, for ever: I have
entitled it

          THE UNIVERSALIST.

          'to a friend who questioned the propriety of his
          religious opinions.

          'You ask what creed is mine? and where
          I seek the Lord in holy prayer?
          What sect I follow? by what rule,
          Perhaps you mean, I play the fool?
          I answer, none; yet gladly own
          I worship God, but God alone.
          No pious fraud or monkish lies
          Shall teach me others to despise;
          Whate'er their creed, I love them all,
          So they before their Maker fall.
          The sage, the savage, and refined,
          On this one point are equal blind:
          Shall man, the creature of an hour,
          Arraign the all-creative Power?
          Or, by smooth chin, or beard unshaved,
          Decree who shall or not be saved?
          Presumptuous priests, in silk and lawn,
          May lib'ral minds denounce with scorn;
          The reason's clear--remove the veil,
          Their trade and interest both must fail.

~160

          I hold that being worse than blind,
          Where bigotry usurps the mind;
          And more abhor him who for pelf,
          Denouncing others, damns himself.
          Look round, observe creation's work,
          From Afric's savage to the Turk;
          Through polish'd Europe turn your eye,
          To where the sun of liberty
          On western shores illumes the wave,
          That flows o'er many a patriot's grave;
          As varied as their skin's the creed,
          By which they hope they shall succeed
          In presence of their God, to prove
          Their claim to his eternal love;
          A claim that must and will have weight,
          No matter what their creed or state.
          By modes of faith let none presume
          To fix his fellow-creature's doom.'"

"A truce with religion, Horace," said I; "it is a controversy that generally ends in making
friends foes, and foes the most implacable of persecutors: with the one it shuts out all hope
of reconciliation, with the other breeds a war of extermination; so come, lad, leave theology
to the fathers--we that have liberal souls tolerate all creeds. More hollands, steward: here's
a glass to all our college acquaintance, not forgetting grandmamma and the pretty nuns of Saint
Clement's. Where the deuce is all that singing we hear above, steward?" "On board the Transport,
your honour." "Ay, I remember, I saw the poor devils embark this morning, and a doleful sight
it was--one hundred of my fellow-creatures, in the prime of life, consigned to an early grave,
transported to the pestilential climate of Sierre Leone: inquire for them three months hence,
and you shall find them--not where they will find you--but where whole regiments of their predecessors
have been sacrificed, on the unhealthy shores--victims to the false policy of holding what
is worse than useless, and of enslaving the original owners of the soil.

~161~~Liquor, and the reflection of their desperate fortunes, have driven them mad, and now
they give vent to their feelings in a forced torrent of wild mirth, in which they would bury
the recollections of those they are parted from for ever. On the beach this morning I witnessed
a most distressing scene: wives separated by force from their husbands, and children torn from
the fond embraces of parents whose parting sighs were all they could yield them on this side
the grave. 'Push off the boat, and, officer, see that no women are permitted on board,' said
the superintending lieutenant of the depot, with a voice and manner hard and unfeeling as the
iron oracle of authority. My heart sickened at the sight, and the thrilling scream of a widowed
wife, as she fell senseless on the causeway, created an impression that my pitying Muse could
not resist recording.

          'THE SOLDIER'S WIPE.

          'There's a pang which no pencil nor pen can express,
          A heart-broken sigh which despondency breathes,
          When the soul, overcharged with oppressive distress,
          Of the tear of relief the sad bosom bereaves.
          'Twas thus on the shore, like a statue of grief,
          The wife of the soldier her babe fondly press'd;
          Not a word could she utter, no tear gave relief,
          But sorrow convulsively heaved her soft breast.
          Now nearer she presses--now severed for life
          The waves bear the lord of her bosom from view;
          Distraction suspends the red current of life,
          And she sinks on the beach as he sighs out adieu.'"

"Zounds, old fellow, how sentimental you are growing!" said Horace: "you must read these pathetic
pieces to the marines; they will never do for the sailors. Here, steward, bear a hand, muster
the crew aft, and let us have a tune, Jack's Alive, Malbrook, or the College Hornpipe;" an
order that was quickly carried into execution, as most of the ~162~~men on board I found played
some wind instrument, the effect of which upon the stillness of the water was enchantingly
sweet. During the occasional rests of the band, Horace sung one of those delightful melodies,
written in imitation of Moore, for which he was celebrated when a boy at Eton.

          THE EVENING TIDE.

          Tune--" The Young May Moon."
          Whither so fast away, my dear?
          The star of Eve is bright and clear,
          And the parting day, as it fades away,
          To lovers brings delight, my dear:
          Then 'neath night's spangled veil, my dear,
          Come list t' the young heart's tale sincere;
          Yon orb of light, so chaste and bright,
          Love's magic yields within her sphere.
          Then through the shady grove, my love,
          Let's wander with the cooing dove,
          Till the starry night, to morning's light,
          Shall break upon our wooing, love.
          As life's young dream shall pass, my love,
          Together let us gaily row,
          And day by day, in sportive play,
          Enjoy life's Meeting gloss, my love.

It was on one of those warm evenings in the month of July, when scarcely a zephyr played upon
the wanton wave, and the red sun had sunk to rest behind the Castle turrets, giving full promise
of another sultry day, that our little band had attracted a more than usual display of promenaders
on the walk extending from the Fort point to the Marine Hotel. With the report of the evening
gun, or, as Horace termed it, the admiral's grog bell, we had quitted the cabin, and mustering
our little party upon deck, suffered the Rover to drift nearer in shore with the tide, that
we might enjoy the gratifying spectacle of more closely observing the young, the beautiful,
and the ~163~~accomplished elegantes who traversed to and fro upon the beach to catch the soft
whispers of the saline air.

At the Castle Causeway a boat had just landed a group of beautiful children, who appeared clinging
round a tall well-formed man, in a blue jacket and white trowsers, resting a hand upon each
of two fine boys dressed in a similar style: he walked on, with a slight affection of lameness,
towards the Castle entrance, preceded by three lovely little female fairies, who gambolled
in his path like sportive zephyrs.--"There moves one of the bravest men, and best of fathers,
in his majesty's dominions," said Horace--"the commander of the Pearl." "What," said I, "the
Marquis of Anglesey?" "The same--who here seeks retirement in the bosom of his family, and
without ostentation enjoys a pleasure, which, in its pursuit, produces permanent advantage
to many, and enables others, his friends and relations, to participate with him in his amusements.
We are much indebted to the marquis for the promotion of this truly British sport, who with
his brothers, Sir Charles and Sir Arthur, were among the first members of the Royal Yacht Club.
The group of blue jackets to the left, whom the marquis recognised as he passed, consist of
that merry fellow, Sir Godfrey Webster, who lias a noble yacht here, the Scorpion; the commander
of the Sabrina, James Manse, Esq. another jovial soul; the two Williams's, father and son,
who have both fine yachts in our roads; Sir Charles Sullivan; and the Polar navigator, Captain
Lyons, who has just launched a beautiful little boat called the Queen Mab, with whom he means
to bewitch the Don Giovanni of London." "Who is that interesting female leaning over the railings
in front of the Gothic house, attended by a dark pensive-looking swain, with a very intelligent
countenance? Methinks there is an air of style about the pair that speaks nobility; and yet
I have observed ~164~~they appear too fond of each other's society to be fashionables." "That
is the delightful Lady F. L. Gower and her lord: I thought you would have recognised that star
instantly, from the splendid picture of her by Lawrence, which hangs in the Stafford Gallery
at Cleveland-house. The elegant group pacing the lawn in front of the castellated mansion,
on this side of Lord Gower, is the amiable Countess of Craven and her family: the earl, that
generous and once merry-hearted soul, I lament to hear, is a victim to the gout; but it is
hoped a few trips on board the May-fly will restore him to health, and the enjoyment of his
favourite pursuit." "By my soul, Horace," said I, "here comes a splendid creature, a very divinity,
my boy: I' faith just such a woman as might melt the heart of a corsair." "By my honour you
have hit the mark exactly," replied Eglantine, "for she is already the corsair's bride, and
Corbett feels, as he ought to do, not a little proud of his good fortune. The raven-haired
Graces accompanying that true son of Neptune, Sir George Thomas, are daughters of the baronet,
and, report says, very accomplished girls. Now by all that's fascinating and charming, hither
comes the beautiful Miss Seymour, Mrs. Fitzherbert's protégé, and his Majesty's little pet--an
appellation I have often heard him salute her by. The magnificent-looking belle by her side
is a relation, the charming Mrs. Seymour, acknowledged to be a star of the first magnitude
in female attractions. The three portly-looking gentlemen whose grog-blossomed visages speak
their love of the good things of this world are the Admirals Scott and Hope, and that facetious
of all funny senators, Sir Isaac Coffin. If you are an admirer of the soft and the sentimental,
of the love-enkindling eye, and Madonna-like expression of countenance, observe that band of
Arcadian shepherdesses in speckled dresses yonder--Bristol diamonds of the first and purest
~165~~water, I assure you; and their respected father, the wealthy proprietor of Miles's-court,
Bristol, may well be delighted with his amiable and beauteous daughters. The little dapper-looking
man in the white hat yonder is the liberal, good-tempered Duke of Norfolk; and the dashing
roué by his side, the legitimate heir to his title, is the Earl of Surrey, whose son, the young
Baron of Mowbray, follows hand in hand with Captain Wollaston, an old man-of-war's man, who
sails the Swallow cutter. The female group assembled in front of the King's-house are the minor
constellations from East Cowes, and the congregated mixture of oddities who grace the balconies
of the Pavilion boarding-house comprise every grade of society from the Oxford invalid to the
retired shopkeeper, the Messieurs Newcomes of the island." "A rich subject for a more extended
notice," said I, "when on some future occasion I visit Margate or Brighton, where the diversity
of character will be more numerous, varied, and eccentric than in this sequestered spot." As
the evening advanced, the blue-eyed maid of heaven spread forth her silvery light across the
glassy surface of the deep, yielding a magic power to the soul-inspiring scene, and, by reflection,
doubling the objects on the sea, whose translucent bosom scarcely heaved a sigh, or murmured
forth a ripple on the ear; and now, amid the stillness of the night, we were suddenly amused
with the deep-sounding notes of the key-bugle reverberating over the blue waters with most
harmonious effect. "We are indebted to that mad wag, Ricketts, for this unexpected pleasure,"
said Horace; "he is an amateur performer of no mean talent, and delights in surprising the
visitors in this agreeable manner." "Rover, a-hoy," hailed a voice from the shore; off went
our boat, and on its return brought an accession to our party of half a dozen right merry fellows,
among whom was that choice spirit, Henry Day, whose facetious powers of oratory and whim are
~166~~universally esteemed, and have often afforded us amusement, when enjoying an evening
among the eccentrics of London and the brilliants of the press, who assemble for social purposes
at the Wrekin. The Days are too well known and respected as a family of long standing in the
island to require the eulogy of the English Spy, but to acknowledge their hospitality and kindness
he penned the following tribute ere he quitted the shores of Vectis.

          LOVE, LAW, AND PHYSIC.

          In Vectis' Isle three happy Days
          By any may be seen:
          First, James, who loves by social ways
          To animate mirth's scene;
          An honest lawyer, Henry, next
          With speech and bottle plies you;
          And when by fell disease perplex'd,
          Charles physics and revives you.
          "Love, law, and physic," here combine
          To claim the poet's praise:
          May fortune's sunbeams ever shine
          On three such worthy Days.

A few more songs and a few more grogs brought on the hour of ten; and now our friends having
departed to their homes, Horace and myself took a turn or two upon deck, smoked out our cigars,
conjured up the reminiscences of our school-boy days, and having spent a few moments in admiration
of the starry canopy which spread its spangled brightness over our heads, we sought again the
cabin, drank a parting glass to old friends, turned into our births, and soon were cradled
by the motion of the vessel into sweet repose. The events of the former evening, the novelty
of the scene, and, above all, the magnificence of Nature, as she appeared when viewed from
sea, in her diurnal progress through the transition ~167~~of morning, noon, and night, all
inspired my Muse to attempt poetic sketches of the character of the surrounding island scenery.
A delightful pleasure I have endeavoured to convey to my readers in the following rhymes.

          MORNING IN  THE  ISLE  OF  WIGHT.

          When o'er the foreland glimmering day
          Just breaks above the eastern lulls,
          And streaks of gold through misty gray
          Dispels night's dark and vap'rous chills;
          Then, when the landsman 'gins to mow
          The perfumed crop on grounds above,
          And sailors chant the "yeo, heave yeo,"
          Then young hearts wake to life and love.
          When still and slow the murmuring swell
          Of ocean, rising from his throne,
          O'erleaps the beach, and matin's bell
          To prayer invites the college drone;
          Then, when the pennant floats on high,
          And anchor's weigh'd again to rove,
          And tuneful larks ascend the sky,
          Then young hearts wake to life and love.
          When, by unerring nature's power,
          Creation breaks the spell of night,
          And plants their leaves expand and flow'r,
          And all around breathes gay delight;
          Then when the herdsman opes his fold
          To let the merry lambkin rove,
          And distant hills are tipt with gold,
          Then young hearts wake to life and love,

~168~~

          NOON IN  THE  ISLE  OF  WIGHT.

          When toiling 'neath meridian sun
          The boatman plies the lab'ring oar,
          And sportive nymphs the margin shun
          Of ocean's pebble-parched shore;
          Then when beneath some shadowy cliff,
          O'er-hanging wood, or leafy vale,
          The trav'ller rests, haul'd up the skiff,
          Then lovers breathe their am'rous tale.
          When Nature, languid, seems to rest,
          Nor moves a leaf, or heaves a wave,
          And Zephyrs sleep, by Sol caress'd,
          And sportive swallows skim the lave;
          Then, when by early toil oppress'd,
          The peasant seeks the glen or dale,
          Enjoys his frugal meal and rest,
          Then lovers breathe their am'rous tale.
          When close beneath the forest's pride
          The upland's group of cattle throng,
          And sultry heat dissevers wide
          The feather'd host of tuneful song;
          Then when a still, dead, settled calm
          O'er earth, and air, and sea prevail,
          And lull'd is ev'ry spicy balm,
          Then lovers breathe their am'rous tale.

~169~~

          EVENING IN  THE  ISLE  OF  WIGHT.

          When twilight tints with sober gray
          The distant hills, and o'er the wave
          The mellow glow of parting day
          Crimsons the shipwreck'd sailor's grave;
          Then when the sea-bird seeks the mast,
          And signal lights illume the tower,
          And sails are furl'd, and anchors cast,
          Then, then is love's delicious hour.
          When o'er the beach the rippling wave
          Breaks gently, heaving to and fro,
          Like maiden bosoms, ere the knave
          Of hearts has ting'd their cheek with woe;
          Then, when the watch their vigils keep,
          And grog, and song, and jest have power
          To laugh to scorn the peril'd deep,
          Then, then is love's delicious hour.
          When Cynthia sheds her mystic light
          In silv'ry circles o'er the main;
          And Hecate spreads her veil of night
          O'er hearts that ne'er may meet again;
          Then, Anna, blest with thee, I stray
          'Mid scenes of bliss--through nature's bower;
          While eve's star guides us on our way,
          Then, then is love's delicious hour.

It has often been observed by inquisitive travellers, that in most of our country villages
not only the three best houses are inhabited by the lawyer, the parson, and the doctor, but
three-fourths of the whole property of the place is generally monopolized by the same disinterested
triumvirate: however true the satire ~170~~may be in a general sense, it certainly does not
apply to Cowes, where the liberal professions are really practised by liberal minds, and where
the desire to do good outweighs the desire to grow rich. But the good people of Cowes are not
without their nabobs; for instance, the eastern shores of the river are under the dominion
of Lord Henry Seymour and Mr. Nash, who there rule over their humble tenantry with mild paternal
sway. On the western side, the absolute lords of the soil are Messrs. Bennett and Ward: the
first, like other great landed proprietors, almost always an absentee; and the last somewhat
greedy to grapple at every thing within his reach. "Who does that fine park and mansion belong
to?" said a stranger, surveying Northwood from the summit of the hill. "King George," replied
the islander. "And who owns the steam-boats, which I now see arriving?" "King George," reiterated
the fellow. "And who is the largest proprietor of the surrounding country?" "King George."
"Indeed!" said the stranger, "I was not aware that the crown lands were so extensive in the
Wight. Have you much game?" "Ees, ees." "And who is the lord of the manor?" "King George."
"And these new roads I see forming, are they also done by King George?" "Ees, ees, he ought
to gi' us a few new ones, I think; bekase Ize zure he's stopped up enou of our old ones." "What,
by some new inclosure act, I suppose?" "Naye, naye, by some old foreclosure acts, I expect."
"Why, you do not mean to say that our gracious sovereign is a money-lender and mortgagee?"
"No; but our ungracious king be the', and a money-maker too." "Fellow, take care; you are committing
treason against the Lord's anointed." "Ees, ees, he be a 'nointed one, zure enou," retorted
the fellow, laughing outright in the traveller's face. "Sirrah," said the offended stranger,
"I shall have you taken before a justice." "Ees, ees, Ize heard o' them ere chaps at East Cowes,
but Ize ~171~~not much respect for 'em." "Not care for the magistrate!" "Lord love you,--you
be one of the Mr. Newcome, Ize warrant me; why, we've gotten no zuch animal here, nothing o'
sort nearer as Newport; and lawyer Day can out-talk the best of them there, whenever he likes."
"There must be some mistake here," said the stranger, cooling a little of his choler: "did
you not tell me, fellow, that the king of England owned all the land here, and the steam-boats,
and the manor, and the town, and the people, and-----------." "Hold, hold thee there," said
the islander; "I said, King George; and here he comes, in his four-wheeled calabash, and before
he undertakes to give us any more new roads, I wish he'd set about mending his own queer ways"
However strong the current of prejudice may run against Squire Ward in the island, among a
few of the less wealthy residents, it must be admitted, that he is hospitable even to a proverb,
a sincere and persevering friend, and a liberal master to his tenantry: the Christmas festivities
at Northwood, when the poor are plentifully regaled with excellent cheer, smacks of a good
old English custom, that shall confer upon the donor lasting praise, and hand down his name
to posterity with better chance of grateful remembrance than all his mine of wealth can purchase;
there are some well authenticated anecdotes in circulation of George Ward, which prove that
he has, with all his eccentricities,

     "A tear for pity, and a hand, open as day, to melting charity."

To his enterprising spirit Cowes is indebted for much of its present popularity, the facility
of travelling to and from the island being greatly aided by the steamboats (his property) from
Portsmouth and Southampton; but much yet remains to be done by the inhabitants themselves,
if they wish to secure their present high partronage, and increase with succeeding seasons
the number of their visitors. The promenade, admirably situate for the enjoyment of the sea
~172~~breeze, and the delightful spectacle of a picturesque harbour filled with a forest of
beautiful pleasure yachts, is of an evening generally obstructed by the assemblage of a juvenile
band of both sexes, of the very lowest description, who render it utterly impossible for the
delicate ear of female propriety to hazard coming in contact with their boisterous vulgarities.
The beautiful walk round the Castle battery is wholly usurped by this congregated mass of rabble;
and yet the appointment of a peace-officer, a useful animal I never once saw at Cowes, would
remove the objection, and preserve a right of way and good order among the crowd that would
at least render it safe, if not pleasant, to traverse the extended shore. The visit of their
royal highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge to John Nash, Esq. the eminent architect,
at East Cowes Castle, gave a new lustre to the enchanting scene, and afforded the English Spy
a favourable opportunity for completing his sketches of the scenery and character of the island.
Among the festivities which the presence of the royal visitors gave birth to, the most attractive
and delightful was the grand déjeuné a la fourchette, given at St. Lawrence by the commodore
of the Yacht Club, the Right Honourable Lord Yarborough. The invitations to meet the royal
party were very general, including all of note and respectability on the island, and extending
to the number of six hundred persons, for whom a most liberal and princely banquet was prepared
upon the lawn of a delightful cottage, near his seat of Appuldurcombe. The spot selected for
this entertainment was situated under a bold line of cliffs, extending in a semicircular form
for above a mile in length, and inclosing one of the most romantic of nature's variegated scenes,
abounding with hill, and dale, and rich umbrageous foliage, delightfully increased by the inspiring
freshness of the sea breeze, and the unbroken view of the Channel in front, and ~173~~rendered
still more attractive and picturesque by the numerous tents and temporary pavilions which had
been erected for the accommodation of the visitors, spreading over a line of ground like an
encampment in the Pyrenees, a similitude of feature that was more powerfully increased when
the well-concerted echo of the signal bugles resounded from hill to hill, and the cannon's
loud report, from the battery beneath, reverberating through the surrounding hill and dale,
proclaimed for many a mile the gladsome tidings of the approach of royalty. The scene was,
beyond description, magnificent; the assemblage of fashionables included a long list of noble
and distinguished persons, who, on the approach of the duke and duchess, congregated upon an
eminence, immediately opposite the entrance to the lawn, and by their loyal cheers, and smiles,
and birthday suits, gave honest welcome to their monarch's brother, and in the fulness of their
hearty zeal, paid a grateful tribute to their absent king. The ungenial state of the morning's
weather had prevented many of the yachts from coming round, but a few jolly hearts had weathered
the Needles, and displayed their loyalty by decorating their vessels with all the colours of
all the nations of the world. At an appointed signal the tents were thrown open, and the royal
party having retired to the pavilion, the company sat down to an entertainment, where a profusion
of choice wines and viands covered the extended line; then commenced the interchange of bright
eyes and soft sayings, and the rosy blush of maiden beauty tinged the cheek of many a sylphic
form as the accomplished beau challenged the fair to wine with him, and many a heart from that
day's sportive scene shall date the first impression of the soveieign passion which blends
with life's red current all of happiness or misery here below. The repast over, the company
again met the royal party and promenaded on the lawn, and while thus ~174~~engaged, a new delight
was prepared for them--a scene not less congenial than peculiar to the English character, and
one which may well uplift that honest pride of country which ever animates a Briton's heart.
The tables being again replenished, the peasantry of the surrounding districts were admitted
and regaled with unrestricted hospitality.

          And round the gay board cheerful Industry shone,
          In a pureness and brightness to wealth oft unknown;
          'Twas a feast where a monarch might wish to preside,
          For the cottager's comfort's his country's pride;
          And Benevolence smiled on the heart-moving scene,
          And music and beauty enlivened the green,
          While the labourer, gratefully raising the glass,
          Gave his king, then his donor, his dame, and his lass.

The commodore's liberality is proverbial; he had sold his old yacht, the Falcon, and the new
vessel was not likely to be launched this season, yet he would not forego the pleasure of a
grand fête, and as it could not be given on board his own ship, according to annual custom,
he seized upon this opportunity of the royal visit to unite Loyalty and Friendship under one
banner, and it must be recorded, that he displayed an excellence of arrangement which left
no wish ungratified. An excursion round the island, sailing in a westerly direction, is one
of most delightful amusement to a lover of the picturesque; the circuit is nearly eighty miles,
every where presenting new features of the most beautiful variety and romantic scenery, a voyage
we made in the Rover in about eight hours. Clearing Sconce Point, which is the first object
worthy notice from Cowes, you perceive the cottage, battery, and residence of Captain Farrington
on the rise of the hill, and beyond are Gurnet and Harness Bays closely succeeding one another,
the shores above being well diversified with foliage and richly cultivated grounds. From this
station the coast gradually sinks towards Newtown River, where the luxuriant woods of Swainton
are perceived rising in the distance, crowned by ~175~~Shalfleet church and a rich country
as far as Calbourne, the landscape bounded by a range of downs which stretch to the extremity
of the island. The coast at Hamsted, the farm estate of John Nash, Esq. presents a very bold
outline, and approaching Yarmouth, which has all the appearance of an ancient French fort,
the view of the opposite point, called Norton, is very picturesque, presenting a well-wooded
promontory, adorned with numerous elegant residences; from this spot the coast begins to assume
a very bold, but sterile aspect, composed of steep rugged slopes, and dull-coloured earthy
cliffs, till the attention of the voyager is suddenly arrested by the first view of the Needle
rocks, situate at the termination of a noble promontory called Freshwater cliffs, which extend
along a line of nearly three miles, and at a part called Mainbench are six hundred feet above
the sea level, in some places perpendicular, and in others overhanging the ocean in a most
terrific manner; at the extreme point, or Needles, is the light-house, where the view of the
bays and cliffs beneath is beyond description awfully sublime, and the precipices being covered
with myriads of sea-fowl of all description, who breed in the crannies of the rocks, if called
into action by the report of a gun fill the air with screams and cries of most appalling import;
the grandeur of the scene being much increased by the singularly majestic appearance of the
Needle rocks, rearing their craggy heads above the ocean, and giving an awful impression of
the storms and convulsions which must have shaken and devoured this once enormous mass. Their
present form bears no resemblance to their name, which was derived from a spiral rock, about
one hundred and twenty feet high, that fell in the year 1764, and left the present fragments
of its grandeur to moulder away, like the base of some proud column of antiquity. On the opposite
coast is Hurst Castle, a circular fort, built by Henry ~176~~the Eighth; and on the north side
of the promontory is Alum Bay, the most beautiful and unique feature of the sea cliffs of Albion.
For about a quarter of a mile from the Needles the precipice is one entire glare of white chalk,
which curves round to, and is joined by a most extraordinary mixture of vertical strata, composed
of coloured sands and ocherous earths blending into every variety of tint, and so vivid and
beautiful in colour, that they have been not unfrequently compared to the prismatic hues of
the rainbow. It was on this spot the Fomone, a frigate of fifty guns, returning home, after
an absence of three years, with some Persian princes on board, in June, 1811, struck upon the
rocks and went to pieces: the appearance of a wreck, in such an extraordinary situation, must
have formed a combination of grand materials for the painter, that would be truly sublime.
At Saint Catherine's, in the cliffs, is the gloomy ravine called Blackgang Chine, which should
be visited by the traveller at sunset, when the depth of shade materially increases the savage
grandeur of its stupendous and terrific effect. Tradition reports, that the awful chasm beneath
was formerly the retreat of a gang of pirates, from which it derived its name. The total absence
of vegetation, and the dusky hue of the soil, combined with the obvious appearance of constant
decay, the dismembered fragments, and the streamlet to which it owes its origin, falling perpendicularly
over a ledge of hard rock from above seventy feet high, producing a wild echo in the cavity
beneath, all conspire to render it the most striking and astonishing of Nature's wildest works.
The view off the Sand Rock presents the tasteful marine villas of Sir Willoughby Gordon and
Mrs. Arnold, whose well-cultivated grounds and rich plantations reach down to the sea shore.
Saint Lawrence brings to view the romantic cottage of Lord Yarborough, succeeded by Steep Hill,
the lovely retreat of the late Earl Dysart; ~177~~the romantic flank of Saint Boniface Down,
and in the distance the fairy land of Bonchurch, whose enchanting prospects and picturesque
scenery have so often called forth the varied powers of the painter and the poet, where sportive
nature, clothed in her gayest vest, presents a diversified landscape, abounding with all the
delightful combinations of rural scenery, of rich groves, and dells, and meads of green, and
rocks, and rising grounds; streams edged with osiers, and the lowing herd spread over the luxuriant
land. As you approach East End, you perceive an extensive scene of devastation, caused by the
frequent landslips near to Luccombe Chine, and the romantic chasm of Shanklin, from which spot
Sandown comes next in view, and sailing under the towering Culver cliffs we arrive at the eastern
extremity of the island. At Bimbridge a very dangerous ledge spreads out into the sea, and
gaining Brading Haven the old church tower of Saint Helen's proclaims you are fast gaining
upon that delightful watering-place, the town of Ryde, whose picturesque pier, shooting forth
into the ocean, and covered with groups of elegant visitors, forms an object of the most pleasing
description. From this point the whole line of coast to Cowes wears a rich and highly-cultivated
appearance, being divided into wood, arable, and pasture lands, diversified by the villas of
Earl Spencer, Mr. G. Player, and Mr. Fleming, when, having passed Wooten Creek, the next object
is Norris Castle; and now, having cleared the point, you are once more landed in safety at
the Vine Key, and my old friend, Mrs. Harrington, whose pleasant countenance, obliging manners,
and good accommodation, are the universal theme of every traveller's praise, has already made
her best curtsy to welcome you back to Cowes.

The regatta was, indeed, a glorious scene, when the harbour was literally filled with a forest
of masts and streamers, the vessels of the Royal Yacht ~178~~Club spread forth their milk white
canvas to the gale, many of those who were riding at anchor being decorated from head to stem,
over-mast, with the signal colours of most of the squadron and the ensigns of the different
nations. On the shore, and round the castle battery, the congregated groups of lovely females
traversed to and fro, and the witchery of blight eyes and beauteous faces upon the manly hearts
of the sons of Neptune must have been magically triumphant. The Pearl beat the Arrow, and the
Julia the Liberty,--thus equalizing the victory between the contending parties. The procession
of the pilot boats, about forty in number, was a very animated scene; and in the sailing match
of the succeeding day, our little craft, the Rover, came in second, and received the awarded
prize. The race ball at East Cowes gave the young and fair another opportunity of riveting
their suitors' chains, and the revels of Terpsichore were kept up with spirit until the streaking
blush of golden morn shone through the dusky veil which Hecate spreads around the couch of
drowsy night. But the day of parting was at hand; the last amusement of the time was a match
made between Captain Lyon and a Mr. Davey, of London, to sail their respective yachts, the
Queen Mab and the Don Giovanni, upon the challenge of the last mentioned, a stipulated distance,
for a sum of two hundred guineas--an affair which did not, to use a sporting phrase, come off
well, for the Don most ungallantly refused to meet his fair opponent; and being wofully depressed
in spirits, either from apprehension of defeat, or sea sickness, or some such fresh water fears,
the little Queen was compelled to sail over the course alone to claim the reward of her victory.

And now the sports of the season being brought to a conclusion, and the rough note of old Boreas
and the angry groanings of Father Neptune giving token of approaching storms, I bade farewell
to Vectis, my ~179~~friend Horace transporting me in his yacht to Southampton Water. Reader,
if I should appear somewhat prolix in my descriptions, take a tour yourself to the island,
visit the delightful scenery with which it abounds, participate in the aquatic excursions of
the place, and meet, as I have done, with social friends, and kind hearts, and lovely forms,
and your own delightful feelings will be my excuse for extending my notice somewhat beyond
my usual sketchy style.

         FAREWELL TO VECTIS.

         Blest isle, fare thee well! land of pleasure and peace,
         May the beaux and the belles on thy shores still increase:
         How oft shall my spirit, by absence opprest,
         Revisit thy scenes, and in fancy be blest,
         In the magic of slumber still sport on thy wave,
         And dream of delights that I waken to crave.
         Farewell, merry hearts! fare ye well, social friends!
         Adieu! see the Rover her canvas unbends;
         Land of all that is lovely for painting or verse,
         Farewell! ere in distance thy beauties disperse,
         Now Calshot is passed, now receding from view,
         Once more, happy Vectis, a long, last adieu.

PORTSMOUTH IN TIME OF PEACE.

~180~~

          Where now are the frolicsome care-killing souls,
          With their girls and their fiddlers, their dances and bowls?
          Where now are the blue jackets, once on our shore
          The promoters of merriment, spending their store?
          Where now are our tars in these dull piping times?
          Laid up like old hulks, or enlisted in climes
          Where the struggle for liberty calls on the brave,
          The Peruvians, the Greeks, or Brazilians to save
          From the yoke of oppression--there, Britons are found
          Dealing death and destruction to tyrants around;
          For wherever our tars rear the banner of fame,
          They are still the victorious sons of the main.

     A Trip to Portsmouth on board the Medina Steam-Boat--The
     Change from War to Peace--Its Consequences--The Portsmouth
     Greys--The Man of War's Man--Tom Tackle and his Shipmate--
     Lamentation of a Tar--The Hero Cochrane--An old
     Acquaintance--Reminiscences of the past--Sketches of Point-
     Street and Gosport Beach--Naval Anecdotes--"A Man's like a
     Ship on the Ocean of Life."

"Bear a hand, old fellow!" said Horace Eglantine one morning, coming down the companion hatchway
of the Rover: "if you have any mind for a land-cruise, let us make Portsmouth to-day on board
the steamer, while our yacht goes up the harbour to get her copper polished and her rigging
overhauled." In earlier days, while yet the light-heartedness of youth ~181~~and active curiosity
excited my boyish spirit, I had visited Portsmouth, and the recollection of the scenes I then
witnessed was still fresh upon my memory. The olive-branch of peace now waved over the land
of my fathers; and while the internal state of the country, benefited by its healing balm,
flourished, revived, invigorated and prosperous, Portsmouth and Gosport, and such like sea-ports,
were almost deserted, and the active bustle and variety which but now reigned among their inhabitants
had given way to desolation and abandonment: at least such was the account I had received from
recent visitors. I was, therefore, anxious from observation to compare the present with the
past; and, with this view, readily met the invitation of my friend Horace Eglantine. The voyage
from Cowes to Portsmouth on board the steam-boat, performed, as it now is, with certainty,
in about an hour and a half, is a delightful excursion; and the appearance of the entrance
to the harbour from sea, a most picturesque and imposing scene. The fortifications, which are
considered the most complete in the world, stretching from east to west, on either side command
the sea far as the cannons' power can reach. Nor is the harbour less attractive, flanked on
each side by the towns of Gosport and Portsmouth, and filled with every description of vessel
from the flag-ship of England's immortal hero, Nelson, which is here moored in the centre,
a monument of past glory, to the small craft of the trader, and the more humble ferry-boat
of the incessant applicant, who plys the passenger with his eternal note of "Common Hard, your
honour."

One of my companions on board the Medina was an old man of war's man, whose visage, something
of the colour and hardness of dried salmon, sufficiently indicated that the possessor had weathered
many a trying gale, and was familiar with all the vicissitudes of the mighty deep. With the
habitual roughness of ~182~~his manners was combined a singular degree of intelligence, and
he evinced a disposition to be communicative, of which I found it very agreeable to avail myself.
On approaching the harbour, my attention was arrested by the sight of a number of boats rowed
by men arrayed in a grotesque uniform of speckled jackets, whose freights, to judge from appearances,
must have been of no common weight, as the rowers seemed compelled to use a degree of exertion
little inferior to that employed by galley-slaves. I inquired of my nautical Mentor who these
men were, and in what description of service they were occupied. "Them, master," replied he,
releasing the quid from his mouth, and looking with his weather-eye unutterable things; "they
are the Portsmouth Greys." My countenance spoke plainly enough that this reply had by no means
made me au fait to the subject of my question, and my informant accordingly proceeded--"Shiver
my timbers, mate, they are as rum a set, them boat's crews, as ever pulled an oar--chaps as
the public keeps out of their own pocket for the public good; and it's been but just a slip,
as one may say, between the cup and the lip, as has saved a good many on 'em from being run
up to the yard-arm. Some on 'em forgot to return things as they found rather too easy, and
some, instead of writing their own name, by mistake wrote somebody's else's; so government
sent 'em here, at its own charge, to finish their edication. You see the floating academy as
is kept a purpose for 'em," said he, pointing to the receiving-hulk for the convicts at this
station, which was lying in the harbour: "them as is rowing in the boats," added the talkative
seaman, "has been a getting stones, and ballast, and such like, for the repairs of the harbour;
they does all the rough and dirty jobs as is to be done about the works and place--indeed,
we calls 'em the Port Admiral's skippers." I now fully understood the import of the term Portsmouth
Greys, which had before been an enigma to ~183~~me; and comprehended that the unhappy beings
before me were of

          The ill-fated children of suff'ring and sin,
          With conscience reproaching and sorrow within;
          Bosoms that mis'ry and guilt could not sever,
          Hearts that were blighted and broken for ever:
          Where each, to some vice or vile passion a slave,
          Shared the wreck of the mind, and the spirit's young grave.
          Whose brief hist'ry of life, ere attain'd to its prime,
          Unfolded a volume of madness and crime,
          Such as leaves on the forehead of manhood a stain
          Which tears over shed seek to blot out in vain;
          A stain which as long as existence will last,
          Embitt'ring the future with thoughts of the past.

I might have indulged much longer in these reflections, but my musing mood was interrupted
by the Medina reaching her destination, and we disembarked safely at Portsmouth Point.

On landing, the worthy veteran, who had, by his confabulation during the voyage, claimed, in
his own opinion, a right of becoming my companion for a time, a privilege which, in such a
scene, and at such a place, it will easily be believed I was not averse from granting him,
proceeded along with me carpere iter comités parati, up Point Street, and at one of the turnings
my friend made a sudden stop. "My eyes!" he exclaimed, "may I perish, but that is my old messmate,
Tom Tackle. Many's the can of flip we've scuttled while on board the Leander frigate together;
and when we were obliged to part convoy and go on board different ships, there was above a
little matter of brine about both our eyes." At this moment Tom Tackle came up with us: the
warmth of affection with which his old shipmate had spoken of him had interested me not a little
in his favour, and his mutilated frame spoke volumes in behalf of the gallantry he had displayed
in the service of his country. One eye was entirely ~184~~lost; one coat-sleeve hung armless
by his side; and one vanished leg had its place superseded by a wooden substitute. I gazed
upon the "unfortunate brave" with mingled pity and veneration; yet, so true is the observation
of the ancient,

          "Res sunt humanæ flobilo ludibrium"

That is, human feelings and affairs are a singular compound of the ludicrous and the lamentable,
that I could not avoid giving way to my mercurial disposition, and congratulating my fellow-voyager
on the ease with which he had recognized his old comrade by his present remaining half. "Lord
help your honour!" said he, "a seaman's weather-gauge is made for squalls--foul weather or
fair--in stays or out of trim--sailing all right before the wind, or coming up under jury-masts;
he's no tar that cannot make out an old friend at a cable's length, and bring to without waiting
for signals of distress. Shiver my timbers, if I should not know my old messmate here while
there's a timber rib left in his hulk, or a shoulder-boom to hang a blue jacket on. But, my
toplights, Tom!" continued he, "where's all the girls, and the tiddlers, and the Jews, and
bumboat-women that used to crowd all sail to pick up a spare hand ashore? Not a shark have
I seen in the harbour, and all the old grog-shops with their foul-weather battens up and colours
half-mast." "All in mourning for Mr. Nap, shipmate," said Tom; "we've had no fun here since
they cooped him up on board the Bellerophon, and stowed him away at St. Helena. All the Jews
have cut and run, and all the bumboat-women retired upon their fortunes; the poor landlords
are most of them in the bilboes at Winchester: and as for a pretty girl--whew!--not such an
article to be had at Point now, either for love or money: and all this comes of the peace--shiver
my odd forelight! mate, if it lasts much longer, it will be the ruin of the navy.

~185~~~How I long to hear the sound of the boatswain's whistle once more! 'Up hammocks, boys--clear
the decks, and prepare for action! 'that's the way to live and be merry; then the music of
a good broadside pouring into an enemy's under-works, and cutting her slap in two between wind
and water--that's glory, my christian! May I never taste grog again, if we are not all ruined
by the peace. There's only one fighting fellow left of the old stock of commanders, and they
have turned him out of the navy lest he should infect the psalm-singers. Look out a-head there,
shipmate; d'ye see that fine frigate, the Peranga, now lying oft' Spithead, and can you ever
forget Basque Roads and the gallant Cochrane? I just got a glimpse of his figure head t'other
morning, coming up Point here; so I hauled to and threw my shattered hulk slap across his headway,
lowering my top-gallants as I passed round under his bows. 'Officer,' said he, 'you and I should
know one another, methinks.' 'Success attend your honour,' said I; 'do you remember your master-gunner
when you captured the Spanish galleon, who carried away a spar or two in the action?' 'What,
Tom Tackier said he: 'Heaven help thee, lad! I'd give the bounty of a good boat's crew if I
could put you into sailing-trim and commission again; but here, officer, is something to drink
to old acquaintance with, and if you can find your way on board the Peranga to-morrow, I'll
take care they don't throw you over the ship's side before you have had a skinfull of grog:
'so seizing fast hold of my single tin with both his grappling-irons, I thought he would have
shook it out of the goose-neck at parting; and when I went on board next day, he treated me
like a port-admiral, and sent me on shore with every cranny well-filled, from my beef-tub to
my grog-bucket, and put a little more of the right sort o' stuff" in my jacket pockets to pay
harbour dues with. That's the commander for me! And now I hear, after having taken ~186~~and
destroyed all the Spanish king's navy, he's off to give the Grand Signor a taste of his quality.
My forelights! how I should like to see him with his double rows of grinders wide open, bearing
down upon a whole fleet of Mussulmen--there'd be weeping, and wailing, and gnashing o' teeth
among the Turks! I wouldn't give my wooden pin for the whole of the Grand Sultan's flotilla.
But come, shipmate, may I never want 'bacca, if we don't drink his health, and that 'ere gemman
you've taken in tow shall join us, if he likes." I was too much amused to desire to part company
just yet, and the good-humoured tars perceiving my bent, linked themselves to each arm, and
in this way, laughing at the curiosity we provoked, did our party reach the middle of Point-street,
and brought ourselves to anchor under the head of old Admiral Benbow, where Tom assured us
we should be supplied with the best of grog and ship-stores of the first quality. Horace had
proceeded to escort some ladies, whom he met with on board the steamboat, to the house of a
friend in the High-street, where I had appointed to meet him in the space of an hour. Sitting
myself down therefore with my two jovial associates, I determined to humour the frolic which
had brought me into the society of such eccentric characters. "Shiver my timbers! Jem," said
the one-legged mariner, "but you never make any inquiries after Betsy Bluff, among your other
old friends. It's true, the wench has got spliced again, to be sure; but then, you know, she
waited three years, and had the log-books overhauled first." "Ay, ay, Tom, so they say she
did; but I never believed 'em: howsomedever, that wasn't the worst of it; for having got my
will and my power in her possession, she drew all my pay and prize-money, and when at last
I got home from an enemy's keeping, I had not a shot left in the locker to keep myself. But
the mischief did not end even there, for she disgraced me, ~187~~and the British flag, by marrying
a half-starved tailor, and setting him up in the Sally port with the money that I had been
fighting the enemies of my country for. May I never get groggy again, if I couldn't have forgiven
her freely if she'd taken some honest-hearted fellow, like yourself, in tow, who had got disabled
in the service, or consorted with a true man of war's man, all right and tight; but to go and
lash herself alongside of such a crazy land lubber as this ninth degree of manhood--may I never
taste 'bacca again if Bet's conduct is bearable! She's no wife of mine, Tom; and when I go
to pieces, a wreck in this world, may I be bolted into old Belzy's caboose if she shall be
a copper fastening the better for Jem Buntline!" During the recital of this story the countenance
of the old tar assumed a fiery glow of honest indignation, and when he had finished the tale,
his fore lights gave evident signs that his heart had been long beating about in stormy restlessness
at the remembrance of his wife's unfaithfulness. "Cheer up, messmate," said Tom; "I see how
the land lies. Come, fill your pipe, and I'll sing you the old stave I used to chant on Saturday
nights, when we messed together on board the Leander.

          A man's like a ship on the ocean of life,
          The sport both of fair and foul weather,
          Where storms of misfortune, and quicksands of strife,
          And clouds of adversity gather.
          If he steers by the compass of honour, he'll find,
          No matter what latitude meets him,
          A welcome in every port to his mind,
          And a friend ever ready to greet him.
          If love takes the helm in an amorous gale,
          Of the rocks of deception beware,
          Steer fairly for port, and let reason prevail,
          And you're thus sure to conquer the fair.
          For the Bay of Deceit keep a steady look out,
          Steer clear of the shoals of distress,

~188~~

          Yet ever be ready to tack and about
          When the black waves of misery press.
          Like a vessel, digest out in all colours, d'ye see,
          Are the virtues and vices of life:
          Blue and red are the symbols of friendship and glee,
          White and black of ill-humour and strife.
          True worth, like true honour, is born of no clime,
          But known by true courage and feeling,
          Where power and pity in unison chime,
          And the heart is above double dealing."

"Ay, Tom, now you're on the right tack--a good song, and a jovial friend, and let the marines
blubber about love and lullaby, it'll never do for the sailors. As we are overhauling old friends,
do you remember Charley Capstan, the coxswain's mate of the Leander V "Shiver my timbers, but
I do; and a bit of tough yarn he was, too: hard as old junk without, and soft as captain's
coop meat within. Wasn't I one of the crew that convoyed him up this very street when returning
from a cruise off the Straits, we heard that Charley's old uncle had slipt his cable, and left
him cash enough to buy out and build a ship of his own? That was a gala, messmate! There was
Charley, a little fat porpoise, as round as a nine-pounder, mounted on an eighteen gallon cask
of the real Jamaica, lashed to a couple of oars, and riding astride, on his messmates' shoulders,
up to the Point. Then such a jolly boat's crew attended him, rigged out with bran new slops,
and shiners on their topmasts, with the Leander painted in front, and half a dozen fiddlers
scraping away 'Jack's alive,' and all the girls decked out in their dancing dresses, with streamers
flying about their top-gallants, and loose nettings over their breastworks--that was a gala,
messmate! And didn't Charley treat all Point to the play that night, and engage the whole of
the gallery cabin for his own friends' accommodation; and when the reefers in the hold turned
saucy, didn't you and two or three more ~189~~drop down upon 'em, and having shook the wind
out of their sails, run up the main haliards again, without working round by the gangway?"
"Right, Tom, right; and don't you remember the illumination, when we stuck up ten pound of
lighted candles round the rim of the gallery before the play began, and when Jane Shore was
in the midst of her grief, Charley gave the signal, and away they went, like a file of marines
from a double broadside, right and left, tumbling about the ears of the reefers and land lubbers
in the chicken coops below? Those were the days of glory, messmate, when old Jack Junk, who
had never seen a play before, took it all for right down arnest matter o' fact; and when poor
Mrs. Shore came to ask charity of that false-hearted friend of hers, what was jealous of her,
and fell down at the door, overcome by grief and hunger, poor Jack couldn't stand it no longer;
so after suffering the brine to burst through the floodgates of his heart, till he was as blind
as our chaplain to sin, he jumped up all at once, and made for the offing, blubbering as he
went, 'May I be blistered, if ever I come to see such cruel stuff as this again!' Then didn't
Stephen Collins, and Kelly, and Maxfield, the three managers, come upon deck, and drink success
to the Leander's crew, out of a bucket of grog we had up for the purpose, and the ould mare
of Portsmouth sent his compliments to us, begging us not to break our own necks or set fire
to the playhouse? Another glass, Jem, to the crew of the Leander: don't you remember the ducking
ould Mother Macguire, the bum-boat woman, received, for bringing paw-paw articles on board,
when we came in to refit?" "May I never want 'bacca, if I shall ever forget that old she crocodile!
Wasn't it her that brought that sea-dragon, Bet Bluff, on board, and persuaded me to be spliced
to her? shiver her timbers for it!" "Avast there! messmate," said Tom: "when you ~190~~can't
skuttle an enemy, it's best to sail right away from her hulk before she blows up and disables
her conqueror. May I never get groggy, if I shall ever forget the joke between you and the
old Sheenie, when you threatened to throw him overboard for selling you a dumb time-keeper.
'Blesh ma heart,' said the Jew, while his under works shook like a cutter's foresail going
about, 'how could you expect de vatch to go well, ven de ship vas all in confushion?' an excuse
that saved him from sailing ashore in a skuttle-bucket." "Have you weathered Gosport lately?"
inquired Jem: "there used to be a little matter of joviality going forward there upon the beach
in war time, but I suppose it's all calm enough now." "All ruined by the peace; and all that
glorious collection of the kings and queens of England, and her admirals and heroes, which
used to swing to and fro in the wind, when every house upon the beach was a grog-shop, are
past, vanished, or hanging like pirates in tatters; the sound of a fiddle never reaches their
ears; and the parlour-floors, where we used to dance and sing till all was blue, are now as
smooth and as clean as the decks of Lord Nelson's flag ship, the Victory, which lies moored
in our harbour, like a Greenwich pensioner, anchored in quiet, to drop to pieces with old age.
You may fire a nine-pounder up the principal street at noon-day now and not hurt any body;
and if the peace lasts much longer, horses may graze in their roads, and persons receive pensions
for inhabiting the vacant houses." The period within which I had promised to join Horace Eglantine
had now elapsed. It was no easy task to separate myself from my nautical friends, and the amusement
they had afforded me demanded some acknowledgment in return; calling, therefore, for a full
bowl of punch, we drank success to the British navy, toasted wives and sweethearts, honoured
our gracious king, shook ~191~~hands at parting, like old friends, and having promised to renew
my acquaintance before I left Portsmouth, I bade adieu to jolly Jem Buntline and what remained
of his noble messmate, the lion-hearted Tom Tackle.

EVENING, AND IN HIGH SPIRITS.

A SCENE AT LONG'S HOTEL.

~192~~

     Sketches of Character--Fashionable Notorieties--Modern
     Philosophy--The Man of Genius and the Buck--"A short Life
     and a merry one "--A Short Essay on--John Longs--Long Corks
     --Long Bills--Long Credits--Long-winded Customers--The
     Ancients and the Moderns, a Contrast by Old Crony.

          Ye bucks who in manners, dress, fashion, and shiny,
          So often have hail'd me as lord of your gang--
          "O lend me your ears!" whilst I deign to relate
          The cause of my splendour, the way to be great;
          My own chequered life condescend to unfold,
          And give a receipt of more value than gold;
          Reveal t' ye the spot where the graces all dwell,
          And point out the path like myself to excel.
          --Pursuits of Fashion.

Only contrive to obtain the character of an eccentric, and you may ride the free horse round
the circle of your acquaintance for the remainder of your life. If my readers are not by this
time fully satisfied of my peculiar claims to the appellation of an oddity, I have no hopes
of obtaining pardon for the past whims and fancies of a volatile muse, or anticipating patronage
for the future wanderings of a restless and inquisitive humorist. But my bookseller, a steady,
persevering, inflexible sort of personage, whose habits of business are as rigid as a citizen
of the last century, or a puritan of the Cromwell commonwealth, has lately suffered the marble
muscles of his frigid countenance to unbend with a sort of mechanical ~193~~inclination to
an expression of--what shall I say--lib--lib--liberality; no, no, that will never do for a
bookseller--graciousness--ay, that's a better phrase for the purpose; more characteristic of
his manner, and more congenial to my own feelings. Well, to be plain then, whenever a young
author can pass through an interview with the headman of the firm without hearing any thing
in the shape of melancholy musings, serious disappointments, large numbers on hand, doubtful
speculation, and such like pleasant innuendoes, he may rest satisfied that his book is selling
well, and his publisher realizing a fair proportion of profit for his adventurous spirit. I
am just now enjoying that pleasant gratification, the reflection of having added to my own
comforts without having detracted from the happiness of others. In short, my scheme improves
with every fresh essay, and my friend Bob Transit, who has just joined me in a bottle of iced
claret at Long's, has been for some minutes busily engaged in booking mine host and his exhibits;
while I, under pretence of writing a letter, have been penning this introduction to a chapter
on fashion and its follies, annexing thereunto a few notes of characters, that may serve to
illustrate that resort of all that is exquisite and superlative in the annals of high ton.
"Evening, and in High Spirits," --a scene worthy of the acknowledged talent of the artist,
and full of fearful and instructive narrative for the pen of the English Spy. Seated snugly
in one corner of Long's new and splendid coffee-room, we had resolved on our entering to depart
early; but the society we had the good fortune to be afterwards associated with might have
tempted stronger heads than those of either Bob Transit the artist, or Bernard Blackmantle
the moralist.

"Waiter, bring another bottle of iced claret, and tell Long to book it to the king's lieutenant."
"By the honour of my ancestry," said the Honourable Lillyman Lionise, "but I am devilishly
cut already."

~194~~"You do well, mighty well, sir, to swear by the honour of your ancestors; for very few
of your modern stars have a ray of that same meteoric light to illumine their own milky way."

"That flash of your wit, lieutenant, comes upon one like the electric shock of an intended
insult, and I must expect you will apologize."

"Then I fear, young valiant, you will die of the disease that has killed more brave men than
the last twenty years' war."

"And what is that, sir, may I ask?"

"Expectation, my jewel! I've breakfasted, dined, supped, and slept upon it for the last half
century, and am not one step higher in the army list yet."

"But, lieutenant, let me observe that--that--"

"That we are both pretty nigh bosky, and should not therefore be too fastidious in our jokes
over the bottle."

Enter Waiter. "The claret, gentlemen. Mr. Long's compliments, and he requests permission to
assure you that it is some of the late Duke of Queensberry's choice stock, marked A one."

"Which signifies, according to Long's edition of Cocker, that we must pay double for the liqueur.
Come, Lionise, fill a bumper; and let us tails of the lion toast our caput, the sovereign,
the first corinthian of his day, and the most polished prince in the world."

"Tiger, Tiger,"{1} ejaculated a soft voice in the adjoining box; "ask Tom who the trumps are
in the next stall, and if they are known here, tell them the Honourable Thomas Optimus fills
a bumper to their last toast."

     1 Since the death of the Earl of Barrymore, Tom has
     succeeded to the "vacant chair" at Long's; nor is the Tiger
     Mercury the only point in which he closely resembles his
     great prototype.

~196~~A smart, clever-looking boy of about fifteen years of age darted forward to execute the
honourable's commands; when having received the requisite information from the waiter, he approached
the lieutenant and his friend, and with great politeness, but no lack of confidence, made the
wishes of his master known to the bon vivants; the consequence was, an immediate interchange
of civilities, which brought the honourable into close contact with his merry neighbours; and
the result, a unanimous resolution to make a night of it.

At this moment our tête-à-tête was interrupted by the appearance of old Crony, who, stanch
as a well-trained pointer to the scent of game, had tracked me hither from my lodgings; from
him I learned the lieutenant was a fellow of infinite jest and sterling worth; a descendant
of the O'Farellans of Tipperary, whose ancestry claimed precedence of King Bryan Baroch; a
specimen of the antique in his composition, robust, gigantic, and courageous; time and intestine
troubles had impaired the fortunes of his house, but the family character remained untainted
amid the conflicting revolutions that had convulsed the emerald isle. Enough, however, was
left to render the lieutenant independent of his military expectations: he had joined the army
when young; seen service and the world in many climates; but the natural uncompromising spirit
which distinguished him, partaking perhaps something too much of the pride of ancestry, had
hitherto prevented his soliciting the promotion he was fairly entitled to. Like a majority
of his countrymen, he was cold and sententious as a Laplander when sober, and warm and volatile
as a Frenchman when in his cups; half a dozen duels had been the natural consequence of an
equal number of intrigues; but although the scars of honour had seared his manly countenance,
his heart and person were yet devoted to the service of the ladies. Fame had trumpeted forth
his prowess in the wars of ~196~~Venus, until notoriety had marked him out an object of general
remark, and the king's lieutenant was as proud of the myrtle-wreath as the hero of Waterloo
might be of the laurel crown.

But see, the door opens; how perfumed, what style! Long bows to the earth. What an exquisite
smile! Such a coffee-house visitor banishes pain: While Optimus rising, cries "Welcome, Joe
Hayne! May you never want cash, boy--here, waiter, a glass; Lieutenant, you'll join us in toasting
a lass. I'll give you an actress--Maria the fair." "I'll drink her; but, Tom, you have ruined
me there. By my hopes! I am blown, cut, floor'd, and rejected, At the critical moment, sirs,
when I expected To revel in bliss. But, here's white-headed Bob, My prime minister; he shall
unravel the job. And if Jackson determines you've not acted well, I'll mill you, Tom Optimus,
though you're a swell." "Sit down, Joe; be jolly--'twas Carter alone That has every obstacle
in your way thrown. Nay, never despair, man--you'll yet be her liege; But rally again, boy,
you'll carry the siege." Thus quieted, Joe sat him down to get mellow; For Joe at the bottom's
a hearty good fellow.

"Have you heard the report," said Optimus, "that Harborough is actually about to follow your
example, and marry an actress? ay, and his old flame, Mrs. Stonyhewer, is ready to die of love
and a broken heart in consequence."

"Just as true, my jewel, as that I shall be gazetted field-marshal; or that you, Mr. Optimus,
will be accused of faithfulness to Lady Emily. Our young friend here, the rich commoner, has
given currency to such a variety of common reports, that the false jade grows bold enough to
beard us in our very teeth."

"Why, zounds! lieutenant," said Lionise, "how very sentimental you are becoming."

"It's a way of mine, jewel, to appear singular in some sort of society."

~197~~"And satirical in all, I'll vouch for you, lieutenant;" said Optimus.

"By Jasus, you've hit it! if truth be satire, it's a language I love, although it's not very
savoury to some palates."

"Will the duke marry the banker's widow, Joel that's the grand question at Tattersall's, now
your match with Maria's off, and Earl Rivers's greyhounds are disposed of. Only give me the
office, boy, in that particular, and I'll give you a company to-morrow, if money will purchase
one; and realize a handsome fortune by betting on the event."

"Then I'll bet Cox and Greenwood's cash account against the commander-in-chief's, that the
widow marries a Beau-clerc, becomes in due time Duchess of St. Alban's, and dies without issue,
leaving her immense property as a charitable bequest to enrich a poor dukedom; and thus, having
in earlier life degraded one part of the peerage, make amends to the Butes, the Guildfords,
and the Burdetts, by a last redeeming act to another branch of the aristocracy."

"At it again, lieutenant; firing ricochet shot, and knocking down duck and drake at the same time."

"Sure, that has been the great amusement of my life; in battle and abroad I have contrived
to knock down my share of the male enemies of my country; in peace and at home I've a mighty
pleasant knack of winging a few female bush fighters."

"But the widow, my dear fellow, is now a woman of high {2} character; has not the moral Marquis
of Hertford undertaken to remove all ------and disabilities? and did he not introduce the lady
to the fashionable world at his own hotel, the Piccadilly (peccadillo) Guildhall? Was not the
fête at Holly Grove attended by H.R.H. the Duke of York, and Mrs. C--y, and all the virtuous
portion of our nobility? and has she not since been admitted to the parties at the Duke of
"Query--did Mr. Optimus mean high as game is high?

~198~~Devonshire's, and what is still more wonderful, been permitted to appear at court, and
since, in the royal presence, piously introduced to the whole bench of Bishops?"

"By Jasus, that's true; and I beg belle Harriette's pardon. But, I well remember, I commanded
the cityguard in the old corn-market, Dublin, on the very night her reputed father, jolly Jack
Kinnear, as the rebels called him, contrived to wish us good morning very suddenly, and took
himself off to the sate of government."

I shall be obliged to entertain the world with a few of her eccentricities some day or other;
the ghost of poor Ralph Wewitzer cries loudly for revenge. The sapient police knight, when
he secured the box of letters for his patroness, little suspected that they had all been previously
copied by lieutenant Terence O'Farellan of the king's own. A mighty inquisitive sort of a personage,
who will try his art to do her justice, spite of "leather or prunella."

The party was at this moment increased by the arrival of Lord William, on whose friendly arm
reposed the Berkley Adonis--"par nobile fratrum."

"Give me leave, lieutenant," said his lordship, "to introduce my friend the colonel." "And
give me leave," whispered Optimus, "to withdraw my friend Hayne, for 'two suns shine not in
the same hemisphere.'"

"The man that makes a move in the direction of the door makes me his enemy," said the lieutenant,
loudly. And the whole party were immediately seated.

Hitherto, my friend Crony and myself had been too pleasantly occupied with the whim, wit, and
anecdote of the lieutenant, to pay much attention to the individuality of character that surrounded
the festive board; but, having now entered upon our second bottle, the humorist commenced his
satirical sketches.--

"Holding forth to the gaze of this fortunate time The extremes of the beautiful and the sublime."

~199~~"Suppose I commence with the pea-green count," said Crony. "I know the boy's ambition
is notoriety; and an artist who means to rise in his profession should always aim at painting
first-rate portraits, well-known characters; because they are sure to excite public inquiry,
thus extending the artist's fame, and securing the good opinion of his patrons by the gratification
of their unlimited vanity. The sketch too may be otherwise serviceable to the rising generation;
the Mr. Greens and Newcomes of the world of fashion, if they would avoid the sharks who infest
the waters of pleasure, and are always on the anxious look-up for a nibble at a new 'come out.'

"The young exquisite's connexion with the fancy, or rather with the lowest branch of that illustrious
body, the bruising fraternity and their boon companions, had been, though not an avowed, a
real source of jealousy to many of his dear bosom friends at Long's hotel, from the moment
of the count's making his début,

     'Imberbis juvenis, tandem custode remote,'

into the fashionable world. That he would be ultimately floored by his milling protégés it
did not require the sagacity of a conjurer to foresee; nor was it likely that the term of such
a catastrophe would be so tediously delayed, as to subject any one who might be eager to witness
its arrival to that sickness of the heart which arises from hope deferred. But this process
for scooping out the Silver (or Foote) Ball, as he has since been designated, by no means suited
the ideas of the worthies before alluded to. The learned Scriblerus makes mention of certain
doctors,{3} frequently seen at White's in his day, of a modest and upright appearance, with
no air of overbearing, and habited like true masters of arts in black and white only. They
were justly styled, says the above high authority,

     3 A cant phrase for dice,

~200~~subtiles and graves, but not always irrefragabiles, being sometimes examined and, by
a nice distinction, divided and laid open. The descendants of these doctors still exist, and
have not degenerated, either in their numbers or their merits, from their predecessors. They
take up their principal residence in some well-known mansions about the neighbourhood of the
court, and many of the gentlemen who honoured the count with their especial notice on his entrée
into public life are understood to be familiarly acquainted with them. Now could they have
only instilled into the young gentleman a wish to be introduced to these doctors, or once prevailed
upon him to take them in hand for the purpose of deciding what might be depending upon the
result of the investigation; nay, could they even have spurred him on to an exhibition of his
tactics, in manoeuvring

          'Those party-colour'd troops, a shining train,
          Drawn forth to combat on the velvet plain;'

they could have so delightfully abridged the task which to their impatient eyes appeared to
be much too slow in executing, could have spared their dear friend so much unnecessary time
and labour in disencumbering himself of the superfluity of worldly dross which had fallen to
his share. A little cogging, sleeving, and palming; nay, a mere spindle judiciously planted,
or a few long ones introduced on the weaving system, could have effected in one evening what
fifty milling matches, considering the 'glorious uncertainty' attaching to pugilistic as well
as legal contests, might fail to accomplish. By this method, too, the person in whom they kindly
took so strong an interest would, even when he had lost every thing, have escaped the imputation
of having dissipated his property. It would have been comfortably distributed in respectable
dividends among a few gentlemen of acknowledged talent, instead of floating in air like the
leaves of the

~201~~Sibyl, and alighting in various parts of the inner and outer ring; now depositing a few
cool hundreds in the pockets of a sporting Priestley bookseller, or the brother of a Westminster
Abbott; now contributing a small modicum to brighten the humbler speculations of the Dean-street
casemen, or the Battersea gardener.

"But to this conclusion Horatio would not come. He was good for backing and betting on pugilists,
but on the turf he would do little, and at the tables nothing. His zealous friends had therefore
no chance in the way they would have liked best; but being men of the world, and knowing, like
Gay's bear, that

          'There might be picking
          Ev'n in the carving of a chicken,'

they did not disdain to make the most in their power by watching the motions of his hobby,
and if this was not a sufficient prize to furnish much cause for exultation, it was at least
one that it would have been unwise to reject.

"A contemporary writer has exerted to the utmost the very little talent he possesses to represent
the peagreen's uniform resistance to all the temptations of cards and dice, as a proof of his
possessing a strength of mind and decision of character rarely found in young men of his fortune
and time of life. In the elegant language of this apologist, the count, by this prudent abstinence,
'has shown himself not half so green as some supposed, and the sharps, and those who have tried
on the grand mace with him, have discovered that he was no flat.' How far this negative eulogium
may be gratifying to the feelings of the individual on whom it is bestowed, I will not say;
in my character of English Spy I have been under the necessity of carefully observing this
fortunate youth, depuis que la rose venait d'eclore, in other words, from the time that he
became, or rather might ~202~~have become, his own master; and I should certainly not attribute
his refraining from the tables to any superior strength of mind: indeed, it would be singular
if such a characteristic belonged to a man whose own hired advocate could only vindicate his
client's heart at the expense of his head. Pope tells us, that to form a just estimate of any
one's character, we must study his ruling passion; and by adopting this rule, we shall soon
obtain a satisfactory clew both to the exquisite count's penchant for the prize-ring, and his
aversion to the hells. Some persons exhibit an inexplicable union of avarice and extravagance,
of parsimony and prodigality--something of this kind is observable in the gentleman in question.
But self predominates with him in all; and being joined to rather alow species of vanity, and
a strong inclination to be what is vulgarly called cock of the walk, it has uniformly displayed
itself in an insatiate thirst for notoriety. Now pugilists, from the very nature of their profession,
must be public characters; while the gamester, to the utmost of his power, does what he does
'by stealth, and blushes to find it fame.' To be the patron of some noted bruiser, to bear
him to the field of action in your travelling barouche, accompanied by Tom Crib the XX champion,
Tom Spring the X champion, Jack Langan and Tom Cannon the would-be champions, and Lily White
Richmond, is sure to make your name as notorious, though perhaps not much more reputable, than
those of your associates; but the man who, like 'the youth that fired the Ephesian dome,' aims
at celebrity alone, in frequenting the purlieus of the gaming-house only 'wastes his sweetness
on the desert air.' Moreover, the members of the Ebony Clubs being compelled to assume the
appearance, and adopt the manners, insensibly imbibe too much of the feelings of gentlemen,
to be likely to pay, to the most passive pigeon that ever submitted to rooking, the cap in
hand homage rendered by a ~203~~practitioner within the pins and binders of the prize-ring
to the swell who takes five pounds worth of benefit tickets, or stands a fifty in the stakes
for a milling match.

"These motives seem to me sufficient to have prompted the count's predominating attachment
to the prize-ring and its heroes, which, however, having as I have before remarked, been viewed
with no favourable eye by some of his comrades, his recent ill-luck at Warwick could hardly
be expected to escape the jests and sarcasms of his bottle companions."

"'Fore God," said Optimus, "this backing of your man against the black diamond has been but
a bad spec. Out heavyish I suppose, ay, Joe?"

Count. Why, a stiffish bout, I must confess; and what's more, I'm not by any means without
my suspicions about the correctness of the thing.

Optimus. What, cross and jostle work again? a second edition of Virginia Water? But I thought
you felt assured that Cannon would not do wrong for the wealth of Windsor Castle?

Count. True, I did feel so, and others confirmed me in my assurance, but I believe I was wofully
mistaken; and curse me if I don't think they were all in the concern of doing me.

Optimus. Was not there a floating report about the bargeman receiving a thousand to throw it over?

Count. Something of the sort; but 1 don't believe it. Two bills for five hundred, but so drawn
that they could not be negotiated. I shall certainly, said the count, give notice to the stake-holders
not to give up the battle-money for the present.

Optimus. Pshaw! that will never do. A thing of that nature must be done at the time. Besides,
Cannon stood two hundred in his own money, and says he will freely pay his losses.

Count. A pretty do that, when he had a cheque ~204~~of mine for the sum he put down. But I've
stopped payment of that at my banker's.

Optimus. And will as surely be obliged to revoke that order, as well as to give up disputing
the stakes. No, no, Joe; get out of the business now as you can, and cut it. I always thought
and told you, that I thought your man had no chance. But his going to fight so out of condition,
in a contest where all his physical powers were necessary, does look as if you had been put
in for a piece of ready made luck. But what could you expect? Can any good thing come out of
Nazareth? That a gentleman can patronize such fellows!

Count. I am still of opinion that the spirit of national courage is much promoted--------

Optimus. Spirit of a fiddle-stick! Nonsense, man; that card will win no trick now. You, like
others might have thought so once; but you have seen enough by this time to know that the system
is on altogether a different tack; that its stanchest upholders and admirers are bullies, sharpers,
pickpockets, pothouse keepers, coachmen, fradulent bankrupts, the Jon Bee's and big B's, and
all the lowest B's of society in station and character, whose only merit, if such it can be
called, is the open disclaiming of any thing like honour or principle. And after having been
a patron of such a set of wretches, you will end by becoming, according to circumstances, the
object of their vulgar abuse, or the butt of their coarse ridicule.

"The latter, I understand,"said Lord William, "is pretty much the case already. A friend of
mine was telling me, that one of the precious brotherhood, on hearing that Joe meant to dispute
his bets, asked what better could be expected from a Foote-mam out of place?"

"No more of that, Hal, if thou lovest him," exclaimed Optimus, who immediately perceived, by
his ~205~~countenance, that the last hit had been too hard. Much more has been said upon this
affair than it is worth. Let us change the subject.

"By my conscience," exclaimed the lieutenant, "and here's an excellent episode to wind up the
drama with, headed, 'The Foote Ball's farewell to the Ring:' I'll read it you, with permission,
and afterwards, colonel, you shall have a copy of it for next Sunday's 'Age;' it will save
the magnanimous little B., your accommodating editor, or his locum tenens, the fat Gent, the
trouble of straining their own weak noddles to produce any more soft attempts at the scandalous
and the sarcastic.

"By the honour of my ancestry," rejoined the Gloucestershire colonel, "do you take me for a
reporter to the paper in question?"

"Why not?" said the lieutenant, coolly: "if you are not a reporter and a supporter too, my
gallant friend, by the powers of Poll Kelly but you are the most ill-used man in his majesty's
dominions!"

"Sir, I stand upon my honour," said the colonel, petulantly.

"By the powers, you may, and very easily too," whispered O'Farellan, in a side speech to his
left hand companion; "for it has been trodden under Foote by others these many months. To be
plain with you, colonel, there are certain big whispers abroad, that you and your noble associate,
the amiable yonder, with that beautiful obliquity of vision, which is said to have pierced
the heart of a northern syren, are the joint Telegraphs of the Age. Sure no man in his senses
can suspect Messieurs the Conducteurs of knowing any thing of what passes in polished life,
or think--

"Ah, my dear Wewitzer," said Belle Harriet, now Mrs. Goutts, speaking to the late comedian,
of some female friend, "she has an eye! an eye, that would pierce through a deal board." "By
heavens," said Wewitzer, "that must be then a gimhlet eye." ~206~~of charging them with any
personal knowledge of the amusing incidents they pretend to relate, beyond a certain little
wanton's green room on dits, or the chaste conversations of the blushless naiads who sport
and frolic in the Cytherian mysteries which are nightly performed in the dark groves of Vauxhall.
Take a word of advice from an old soldier, colonel: It is worse than leading a forlorn hope
to attempt to storm a garrison single handed; club secrets must be protected by club laws,
for 'tis an old Eton maxim, that tales told out of school generally bring the relater to the
block. But my friend Stanhope will no doubt explain this matter with a much better grace when
he comes in contact with the tale-bearer."

"Hem," instinctively ejaculated Horace C-----t, the once elegant Apollo of Hyde Park, "thereby
hangs a tale; 'tis a vile Age, and the sooner we forget it, the better--I am for love and peace."
"i.e. a piece" responded the lieutenant. Horace smiled, and continued, "Come, Tom Duncombe,
I'll give our mutual favourite, the female Giovanni. Lads, fill your glasses; we toast a deity,
and one, too, who has equal claims upon most of us for the everlasting favours she has conferred."

"'Fore Gad, lieutenant," simpered out Lord William, squaring himself round to resume the conversation
with the veteran, "if you do not mind your hits, we must positively cut. My friend, the colonel,
will certainly set his blacks{5} upon you, and I shall be obliged to speak to little magnanimous,
the ex-Brummagem director, to strike off a counterfeit impression of you in his scandalous
Sunday chronicle, 'pon honour, I must."

     5 A very curious tradition is connected with a certain
     castle near Gloucester, which foretells, that the family
     name shall be extinct when the race of the blacks* cease to
     be peculiar to the family; a prophecy that I think not very
     likely to be fulfilled, judging by the conduct of the
     present race of representatives.

     * A species of Danish blood-hound, whose portraits and names
     are carved in the oaken cornice of one of the castle
     chambers.

~207~~"The divil a care," said the lieutenant, laughingly; "to arms with you, my lord William;
my fire engine will soon damp the ardour of little magnanimous, and an extra dose of Tom Bish's
compounds put his friend, the fat Gent, where his readers have long been, in sweet somniferous
repose. But zounds, gentlemen, I am forgetting the count, whose pardon I crave, for bestowing
my attention on minor constellations while indulged with the overpowering brilliancy of his
meteoric presence."

"The 'Farewell to the Ring,'" vociferated the count. "Come, lieutenant, give us the episode:
I long to hear all my misfortunes strung together in rhyme."

"By the powers, you shall have it, then; and a true history it is, as ever was said or sung
in church, chapel, or conventicle, with only one little exception--by the free use of poetic
license, the satirist has fixed his hero in a very embarrassing situation--just locked him
up at Radford's steel Hotel in Carey Street, Chancery Lane, coning over a long bill of John
Long's, and a still longer one of the lawyers, with a sort of codicil, by way of refresher,
of the house charges, and a smoking detainer tacked on to its tail, by Hookah Hudson, long
enough to put any gentleman's pipe out.

There's the argument, programme, or fable. Now for the characters; they are all drawn from
the life by the English Spy (see plate), under the amusing title of 'Morning, and in Low Spirits,
a scene in a Lock-up House;' a very appropriate spot for a lament to the past, and

          "'Tis past, and the sun of my glory is set.
          How changed in my case is the fortune of war!
          With no money to back, and no credit to bet,
          No more in the Fancy I shine forth a star.

~208~~

          "Accursed be the day when my bargeman I brought
          To fight with Jos. Hudson!--the thought is a sting.
          I sighing exclaim, by experience taught,
          Farewell to Tom Cannon, farewell to the ring!

          "By the Blackwater vict'ry made drunk with success,
          Endless visions of milling enchanted my nob;
          I thought my luck in: so I could do no less
          Than match 'gainst the Streatham my White-headed Bob.

          "I've some reason to think that there, too, I was done;
          For it oft has been hinted that battle was cross'd:
          But I well know that all which at Yately I won,
          With a thousand en outre at Bagshot I lost.

          "At Warwick a turn in my favour again
          Appear'd, and my crest I anew rear'd with pride;
          Hudson's efforts to conquer my bargeman were vain,
          I took the long odds, and I floor'd the flash side.

          "But with training, and treating, and sparring, and paying
          For all through the nose, as most do in beginning
          Their fancy career, I am borne out in saying,
          I was quite out of pocket in spite of my winning.

          "So when Bob fought old George, being shortish of money,
          And bearing in mem'ry the Bagshot affair,
          In my former pal's stakes I stood only a  pony,
          (Which was never return'd, so I'm done again there).

          "To be perfectly safe, on the old one I betted;
          For the knowing ones told  me the thing was made right:
          If it had been, a good bit of blunt I'd have netted;
          But a double X spoilt it, and Bob won the fight.

~209~~

          "But the famed stage of Warwick, and Ward, were before me--
          I look'd at Tom Cannon, and thought of the past;
          I was sure he must win, and that wealth would show'r o'er me,
          So, like Richard, I set all my hopes on a cast;

          "And the die was soon thrown, and my luck did not alter--
          I was floor'd at all points, and my hopes were a hum;
          I'm at Tattersall's all but believed a defaulter,
          And here, in a spunging house, shut by a bum.

          "'Mid the lads of the fancy I needs must aspire
          To be quite au fait; and I have scarcely seen
          Of mills half a score, ere I'm fore'd to retire--
          O thou greenest among all the green ones, Pea Green!

          "And what have I gain'd, but the queer reputation
          Of a whimsical dandy, half foolish, half flash?
          To bruisers and sharpers, in high and low station,
          A poor easy dupe, till deprived of my cash.

          "All you who would enter the circle I've quitted,
          Reflect on my fate, and think what you're about:
          By brib'ry betray'd, or by cunning outwitted,
          In the Fancy each novice is quickly clean'd out.

          "For me it has lost its attractions and lustre;
          The thing's done with me, and I've done with the thing:
          The blunt for my bets I must manage to muster,
          Then farewell to Tom Cannon, farewell to the ring!"

The reading of this morceau produced, as might have been expected, considerable merriment on
the ~210~~one hand, and some little discussion upon the other; the angry feelings of the commander
in chief and his pals overbalancing the mirthful by their solemnly protesting against the exposure
of the secrets of the prison house, which, in this instance, they contended, were violently
distorted by some enemy to the modern accomplishment of pugilism. In a few moments all was
chaos, and the stormy confusion of tongues, prophetk: of the affair ending in a grand display
and milling catastrophe; the apprehensions of which induced John Long, and John Long's man,
to be on the alert in removing the service, en suite, of superb cut glass, which had given
an additional lustre to the splendour of the dessert. The arrival of other characters, and
the good humour of the count, joined to a plentiful supply of soda water and iced punch, had,
however, the effect of cooling the malcontents, who had no sooner recovered their wonted hilarity,
than old Crony proceeded to particularize, by a comparison of the past with the present, interspersing
his remarks with anecdotes of the surrounding group. "These are your modern men of fashion,"
said Crony; "and the specimen you have this day had of their conduct and pursuits an authority
you may safely quote as one generally characteristic.

'To support this new fashion in circles of ton. New habits, new thoughts, must of course be
put on; Taste, feeling, and friendship, laid by on the shelf, And nothing or worshipp'd, or
thought of, but--self.'

"It was not thus in the days of our ancestors: the farther we look back, the purer honour was.
In the days of chivalry, a love promise was a law; the braver the knight, the truer in love:
then, too, religion, delicacy, sentiment, romantic passion, disinterested friendship, loyalty
to king, love of country, a thirst for fame, bravery, nay, heroism, characterized ~211~~the
age, the nation, the noble, the knight, and esquire. Mercy! what 'squires we have now-a-days!
At a more recent date, all was courtliness, feeling, high sentiment, proud and lofty bearing,
principle, the word inviolable, politeness at its highest pitch of refinement: lovers perished
to defend their ladies' honour; now they live to sully it: the nobility and the people were
distinct in dress and address; but, above all, amenity and good-breeding marked the distinction,
and the line was unbroken. Now, dress is all confusion, address far below par, amenity is a
dead letter, and as to breeding, it is confined to the breeding of horses and dogs, except
when law steps in to encourage the breeding of disputes; not to mention the evils arising from
crossing the old breed; nor can we much wonder at it, when we reflect on the altered way of
life, the change of habits, and the declension of virtue, arising from these very causes.

          'Each hopeful hero now essays to start
          To spoil the intellect, destroy the heart,
          To render useless all kind Nature gave,
          And live the dupe of ev'ry well dress'd knave;
          To herd with gamblers, be a blackleg king,
          And shine the monarch of the betting ring.'

"Men of family and fashion, in those golden days, passed their time in courts, in dancing-rooms,
and at clubs composed of the very cream of birth and elegance. You heard occasionally of Lord
Such-a-one being killed in a duel, or of the baronet or esquire dying from cold caught at a
splendid fête, or by going lightly clad to his magnificent vis-à-vis, after a select masquerade;
but you never read his death in a newspaper from a catarrh caught in the watch-house, from
& fistic fight, or in a row at a hell--things now not astonishing, since even men with a title
and a name of rank pass their time in the stable, at common hells, at the Fives-court--the
hall of infamy; in the watch-house, the justice-room, and make the finish in ~212~~the Fleet,
King's Bench, or die in misery and debt abroad. In the olden times, a star of fashion was quoted
for dancing at court, for the splendour of his equipages, his running footmen and black servants,
his expensive dress, his accomplishments, his celebrity at foreign courts, his fine form, delicate
hand, jewels, library, &c. &c. Now fame (for notoriety is so called) may be obtained by being
a Greek, or Pigeon, by being mistaken for John the coachman, when on the box behind four tits;
by being a good gentleman miller, by feeding the fancy, standing in print for crim. con., breaking
a promise of marriage once or twice, and breaking as many tradesmen as possible afterwards;
breaking the watchman's head on the top of the morn; and lastly, breaking away (in the skirmish
through life) for Calais, or the Low Countries. There is as much difference between the old
English gentleman and him who ought to be the modern representative of that name, as there
is between a racer and a hack, a fine spaniel and a cross of the terrier and bull dog. In our
days of polish and refinement, we had a Lord Stair, a Sedley, a Sir John Stepney, a Sir William
Hamilton, and many others, as our ambassadors, representing our nation as the best bred in
the world; and by their grace and amiability, gaining the admiration of the whole continent.
We had, in remoter times, our Lords Bolingbroke, Chesterfield, and Lyttleton, our Steele, &c,
the celebrated poets, authors, and patterns of fashion and elegance of the age. We had our Argyle,

          'The state's whole thunder form'd to wield,
          And shake at once the senate and the field.'

We had our virtuosi of the highest rank, our rich and noble authors in abundance. The departed
Byron stood alone to fill their place. The classics were cultivated, not by the learned profession
only, but by the votaries of fashion. Now, our Greek scholars are of ~213~~another cast.{6}
In earlier days the chivalrous foe met his opponent in open combat, and broke a lance for the
amusement of the spectators, while he revenged his injuries in public. Now, the practice of
duelling{7} has become almost a profession, and the privacy with which it is of necessity conducted
renders it always subject to suspicion (see plate); independent of which, the source of quarrel
is too often beneath the dignity of gentlemen, and the wanton sacrifice of life rather an act
of bravado than of true courage.{7}

     6 "Adeipe nunc Danaûm insidiai, et----ab uno, Disce
     omnes!"

     The Greek population of the fashionable world comprises a
     very large portion of society, including among its members
     names and persons of illustrious and noble title, whose
     whole life and pleasure in life appears to "rest upon the
     hazard of a die." The modern Greek, though he cannot boast
     much resemblance to Achilles, Ajax, Patroclus, or Nestor,
     is, nevertheless, a close imitator of the equally renowned
     chief of Ithaca. To describe his person, habits, pursuits,
     and manners, would be to sketch the portrait of one or more
     finished roués, who are to be found in most genteel
     societies. The mysteries of his art are manifold, and
     principally consist in the following rules and regulations,
     put forth by an old member of the corps, whose conscience
     returned to torture him when his reign of earthly vice was
     near its close.

     ELEMENTS OF GREEKING. 1. A Greek should be like a mole,
     visible only at night. 2. He should be a niggard of his
     speech, and a profligate with his liquor, giving freely, but
     taking cautiously. 3. He must always deprecate play in
     public, and pretend an entire ignorance of his game. 4. He
     must be subtle as the fox, and vary as the well-trained
     hawk; never showing chase too soon, or losing his pigeon by
     an over eager desire to pluck him. 5. He must be content to
     lose a little at first, that he may thereby make a final hit
     decisive. 6. He must practise like a conjuror in private,
     that his slippery tricks in public may escape observation.
     Palming the digits requires no ordinary degree of agility.
     7. He must secure a confederate, who having been pigeoned,
     has since been enlightened, and will consent to decoy others
     to the net. 8. He should have once held the rank of captain,
     as an introduction to good society, and a privilege to bully
     any one who may question his conduct. 9. He must always put
     on the show of generosity with those he has plucked--that
     is, while their bill, bond, post obit,  or other legal
     security is worth having.

~214~~

     10. He should be a prince of good fellows at his own table,
     have the choicest wines for particular companies, and when a
     grand hit cannot be made, refuse to permit play in his own
     house; or on a decisive occasion, let his decoy or partner
     pluck the pigeon, while he appears to lose to some
     confederate a much larger sum.

     11. He must not be afraid to fight a duel, mill & rumbustical
     green one, or bully a brother sharper who attempts to poach
     upon his preserves.

     12. He must concert certain signals with confederates for
     working the broads (i.e. cards), such as fingers at whist:
     toe to toe for an ace, or the left hand to the eye for a
     king, and so on, until he can make the fate of a rubber
     certain. On this point he must be well instructed in the
     arts of marked cards, briefs, broads, corner bends, middle
     ditto, curves, or Kingston Bridge, and other arch tricks of
     slipping, palming, forcing, or even substituting,
     whatever card may be necessary to win the game. Such are a
     few of the elements of modern Greeking, contained in the
     twelve golden rules recorded above, early attention to which
     may save the inexperienced from ruin.

     7 ELEMENTS OF DUELLING.

     "The British Code of Duel," a little work professing to give
     the necessary instructions for man-killing according to
     honour, lays down the following rules as indispensable for
     the practice of principals and seconds in the pleasant and
     humane amusement of shooting at each other. "1. To choose
     out a snug sequestered spot, where the ground is level, and
     no natural, terrestrial, or celestial line presenting itself
     to assist either party in his views of sending his opponent
     into eternity. 2. To examine the pistols; see that they are
     alike in quality and length, and load in presence of each
     other. 3. To measure the distance; ten paces of not less
     than thirty inches being the minimum, the parties to step to
     it, not from it. 4. To fire by signal and at random; it
     being considered unfair to take aim at the man whose life
     you go out to take. 5. Not to deliver the pistols cocked,
     lest they should go off un-expectedly; and after one fire
     the second should use his endeavours to produce a
     reconciliation. 6. If your opponent fire in the air, it is
     very unusual, and must be a case of extreme anguish when you
     are obliged to insist upon another shot at him. 7. Three
     fires must be the ultimatum in any case; any more reduces
     duel to a conflict for blood," says the code writer; "if
     the parties can afford it, there should be two surgeons in
     attendance, but if economical, one mutual friend will
     suffice; the person receiving the first fire, in case of
     wound, taking the first dressing. 8. It being always
     understood that wife, children, parents, and relations are
     no impediment with men of very different relative stations
     in society to their meeting on equal terms." The consistency,
     morality, justice, and humanity of this code, I
     leave to the gratifying reflection of those who have most
     honourably killed their man.

~215~~

          'For, as duelling now is completely a science,
          And sets, the Old Bailey itself at defiance;
          Now Hibernians are met with in every street,
          'Tis as needful to know how to shoot as to eat.'

     The following singular challenge is contained in a letter
     from Sir William Herbert, of St. Julian's, in Monmouthshire,
     father-in-law to the famous Lord Herbert, of Cherbury, to a
     gentleman of the name of Morgan.    The original is in the
     British Museum.

     "Sir--Peruse this letter, in God's name. Be not disquieted.
     I reverence your hoary hair. Although in your son I find too
     much folly and lewdness, yet in you I expect gravity and
     wisdom.

     "It hath pleased your son, late at Bristol, to deliver a
     challenge to a man of mine, on the behalf of a gentleman (as
     he said) as good as myself; who he was, he named not,
     neither do I know; but if he be as good as myself, it must
     either be for virtue, for birth, for ability, or for calling
     and dignity. For virtue I think he meant not, for it is a
     thing which exceeds his judgment: if for birth, he must be
     the heir male of an earl, the heir in blood of ten earls;
     for, in testimony thereof, I bear their several coats.
     Besides, he must be of the blood royal, for by my
     grandmother Devereux I am lineally and legitimately
     descended out of the body of Edward IV. If for ability he
     must have a thousand pounds a year in possession, a thousand
     pounds more in expectation, and must have some thousands in
     substance besides. If for calling and dignity, he must be
     knight or lord of several seignories in several kingdoms, a
     lieutenant of his county, and a counsellor of a province.

     "Now to lay all circumstances aside, be it known to your
     son, or to any man else, that if there be any one who
     beareth the name of gentleman, and whose words are of
     reputation in his county, that doth say, or dare say, that I
     have done unjustly, spoken an untruth, stained my credit and
     reputation in this matter, or in any matter else, wherein
     your son is exasperated, I say he lieth in his throat, and
     my sword shall maintain my word upon him, in any place or
     province, wheresoever he dare, and where I stand not sworn
     to observe the peace. But if they be such as are within my
     governance, and over whom I have authority, I will for their
     re-formation chastise them with justice, and for their
     malaport misdemeanour bind them to their good behaviour. Of
     this sort, I account your son, and his like; against whom I
     will shortly issue my warrant, if this my warning doth not
     reform them. And so I thought fit to advertise you hereof,
     and leave you to God.

     "I am, &c.

     "WM. HERBERT."

~216~~"The art of fencing formerly distinguished the gentleman, who then wore a sword as a
part of his dress. He is now contented with a regular stand-up fight, and exhibits a fist like
a knuckle-bone of mutton--hard, coarse, and of certain magnitude. The bludgeon hammer-headed
whip, or a vulgar twig, succeeds the clouded and amber-headed cane; and instead of the snuff-box
being rare, and an article of parade, to exhibit a beauty's miniature bestowed in love, or
that of a crowned head, given for military or diplomatic services, all ranks take snuff out
of cheap and vulgar boxes, mostly of inferior French manufacture, with, not unfrequently, indecent
representations on them; or you have wooden concerns with stage coaches, fighting-cocks, a
pugilistic combat, or an ill-drawn neck and neck race upon them. The frill of the nobleman
and gentleman's linen once bore jewels of high price, or a conceit, like a noted beauty's eye,
set in brilliants less sparkling than what formed the centre. Now, a fox, a stag, or a dog,
worthily occupies the place of that enchanting resemblance. In equitation, we had Sir Sydney
Meadows, a pattern and a prototype for gentlemen horsemen. The Melton hunt now is more in vogue,
and the sons of our nobility ride like their own grooms and postboys--ay, and dress like them
too. Autrefois, a man of fashion might be perceived ere he was seen, from a reunion ~217~~of
rich and costly perfumes. Now, snuff and tobacco, the quid, the pinch, and the cigar, announce
his good taste. The cambric pocket-handkerchief was the only one known in the olden times.
The belcher (what a name! ) supplies its place, together with the bird's eye, or the colours
of some black or white boxer. An accomplished man was the delight of all companies in former
times. An out and outer, one up to every thing, down as a nail or the knocker of Newgate, a
trump, or a Trojan, now carry the mode of praise; one that can patter flash, floor a charley,
mill a coal-heaver, come coachey in prime style, up to every rig and row in town, and down
to every move upon the board, from a nibble at the club to a dead hit at a hell; can swear,
smoke, take snuff, lush, play at all games, and throw over both sexes in different ways--he
is the finished man. The attributes of a modern fine gentleman are, to have his address at
his club, and his residence any where; to lounge, laugh, lisp, and loll away the time from
four to eight, when having dressed, eat his olives, he goes to Almack's if he can, or struts
into Fop's Alley at the Opera in boots, in defiance of decency or the remonstrance of the door-keepers;
talks loud to be noticed; and having handed some woman of fashion to her carriage, gets in
after her without invitation, and, as a matter of course, behaves rudely in return; makes a
last call at the club in his way home to learn the issue of the debate, and try his luck at
French hazard or fleecing a novice. (See Plate.)

If his fortune should be one thousand per annum, his income may be extended to five, by virtue
of credit and credulity. If he comes out very early in life, say eighteen, he will scarcely
expect to be visible at twenty-four; but if he does not appear until he is twenty-one, and
then lives all his days, he may die fairly of old age, infirmity, and insolvency, at twenty-six.
His topographical knowledge of town is bounded by the fashionable ~218~~directory, which limits
his recognition, on the north, by Oxford-street, on the east, by Bond-street, on the south,
by Pall Mall, and on the west, by Park-lane. Ask him where is Russell Square, and he stares
at you for a rustic; inquire what authors he reads, and he answers Weatherbey and Rhodes; ask
what are their works, and he laughs outright at your ignorance of the 'Racing Calendar,' 'Annals
of Sporting,' 'Boxiana,' and 'Turf Remembrancer;' question his knowledge of science, it consists
in starch à la Brummel{8}; of mathematics, in working problems on the cards; of algebra, in
calculating the long odds, or squaring the chances of the dice; he tells you, his favourite
book is his betting account, that John Bull is the only newspaper worth reading, and that you
must never expect to be admitted into good society if the cut of your coat does not bear outward
proofs of its being fabricated either in Saint James's Street or Bond Street; that the great
requisites are confidence, indifference, and nonchalance; as, for instance, George Wombwell
being thrown out of his tilbury on High gate Hill, when driving Captain Burdett, and both being
dreadfully bruised, George is picked

     8 When Brummel fell into disgrace, he devised the starched
     neckcloth, with the design of putting the prince's neck out
     of fashion, and of bringing his Royal Highness's muslin, his
     bow, and wadding, into contempt. When he first appeared in
     this stiffened cravat, tradition says that the sensation in
     St. James's-street was prodigious; dandies were struck dumb
     with envy, and washerwomen miscarried. No one could conceive
     how the effect was produced--tin, card, a thousand
     contrivances were attempted, and innumerable men cut their
     throats in vain experiments; the secret, in fact, puzzled
     and baffled every one, and poor dandy L------d died raving
     mad of it;  his mother, sister, and all his relations waited
     on Brummel, and on their knees implored him to save their
     kinsman's life by the explanation of the mystery; but the
     beau was obdurate, and  L------d miserably perished.

     When Brummel fled from England, he left this secret a legacy
     to his country; he wrote on a sheet of paper, on his
     dressing-table, the emphatic words, "Starch is the man."

~219 up by a countryman, when he inquires, very coolly, if 't'other blackguard is not quite
dead:' his amours are more distinguished by their number than attractions, and the first point
is, not attachment, but notoriety; the lady always being the more desirable, in proportion
to the known variety of her gallants; that of all the pleasures of this life, there is nothing
like a squeeze at court (see plate), or being wedged into a close room at a crowded rout.

A ruffian was never thought of by our forefathers; the exquisite was; but he was more sublimated
than the exquisite of the nineteenth century. The dandy is of modern date; but there is some
polish on him--suppose it be on his boots alone. Shape and make are attended to by him; witness
the Cumberland corset, and his making what he can of every body. Then, again, he must have
a smattering of French, and affect to be above old England. When he smokes, he does it from
vanity, to show his écume de mer pipe. He may have a gold snuff-box and a little diamond pin;
and when he swears, he lisps it out like a baby's lesson. Sometimes (not often) he plays upon
the guitar; and the peninsular war may have made a man of him, and a linguist too; but he is
far below the ancient exquisites (who touched the lute, the lyre, and violoncello). And he
is an egotist in every thing--in gallantry, in conversation, in principle, and in heart. Nor
has the deterioration of the gentleman been confined to England only--polite and ceremonious
France has felt her change. The Revolution brought in coarse and uncivilised manners. The awkward
and unsuccessful attempt at Spartan and Roman republican manners; the citizen succeeding to
Monsieur; the blasphemous, incredulous, atheistical principles instilled into the then growing
generation of all classes; the system of equality, subversive of courtliness, and the obliging
attentions and suavities of society, poisoned at once the source ~220~~of morals and of manners;
for there can be nothing gentlemanlike in atheism, radicalism, and the level, ling system.
To this state of things succeeded a reign of terror, assassination, and debauchery; and lastly,
a military despotism, in which the private soldier rose to the marshals baton; a groom in the
stables of the Prince of Condé saw himself ennobled; peers and generals had brothers still
keeping little retail shops; and a drum-boy lived to see his wife--a washerwoman, or fish vender--a
duchess (Madame Lefevre). How can we expect breeding from such materials? Bayonets gave brilliancy
to the imperial court; and the youth of the country were all soldiers, without dreaming of
the gentleman, except in a low bow and flourish of the hat; a greater flourish of self-praise,
and a few warm, loose, and dangerous compliments to the fairer sex, became more than even the
objects of their passion, but less so of their attentions and prepossessing assiduities. This
military race taught us to smoke, to snuff, to drink brandy, and to swear; for although John
Bull never was backward in that point, yet St. Giles's and not St. James's, was the rendezvous
for those who possessed that brutal and invincible habit. These were not amongst the least
miseries and curses which the war produced; and they have left such mischievous traces behind
them, that the mature race in France laugh at the old court, and at all old civil and religious
principles, whilst our demoralized youth play the same game at home. And if a Bolingbroke or
a Chesterfield was now to appear, he would be quizzed by all the smokers, jokers, hoaxers,
glass-cockers, blacklegs, and fancy-fellows of the town, amongst whom all ranks are perfectly
lost, and morality is an absolute term. O tempora! O Moses! (as the would-be Lady Sckolard
said.) Nor does Moses play second best in these characters of the day. Moses has crept into
all circles; from the ring to the peerage and baronetage, the stage, the ~221~~race-course;
and our clubs are tinged with the Israelitish: they may lend money, but they cannot lend a
lustre to the court, or to the gilded and painted saloons of the beau monde. The style of things
is altered; we mean not the old style and new in point of date, but in point of brilliancy
in the higher circles. Our ancestors never bumped along the streets, with a stable-boy by their
side, in a one-horse machine, which is now the bon ton in imitation of our Gallic neighbours,
whose equipage is measured by their purse. Where do you now see a carriage with six horses,
and three outriders, and an avant courier, except on Lord Mayor's day? Yet how common this
was with the nobility d'autrefois. Two grooms are no longer his Grace's and my Lord's attendants,
but each is followed by one groom in plain clothes, not very dissimilar from the man he serves.
Do we ever see the star of nobility in the morning, to guard him who has a right to it from
popular rudeness and a confusion of rank? All is now privacy, concealment, equality in exterior,
musty and meanness: not that the plain style of dress would be exceptionable, if we could say
in verity--

          'We have within what far surpasseth show.'

But the lining is now no better (oftentimes worse) than the coat. Our principles and our politeness
are on a par--at low-water mark. The tradesman lives like the gentleman, and the nobleman steps
down a degree to be, like other people, up to all fashionable habits and modern customs; whilst
the love for gain, at the clubs, on the turf, in the ring, and in private life, debases one
part of society, and puts down the other, which becomes the pigeon to the rook. Whilst all
this goes on, the press chronicles and invents follies for us; and there are men stupid enough
to glory in their depravity, to be pleased with their own deformity of mind, body, or dress,
of their affectations, ~222~~and their leading of a party. There is something manly in the
Yacht Club, in a dexterously driving four fleet horses in hand, in reining in the proud barb,
and in gymnastic exercises: but the whole merit of these ceases, when my Lord (like him of
carroty beard) becomes the tar without his glory, and wears the check shirt without the heart
of oak--when the driver becomes the imitator of the stage and hackney box--when the rider is
the unsuccessful rival of the jockey; and the frequenter of the gymnastic arena becomes a bruiser,
or one turning strength into money, be the bet or the race what it may.

          'Shades of our ancestors! whose fame of old
          In ev'ry time the echoing world has told!
          Whose dauntless valour and heroic deeds,
          Each British bosom yet enraptur'd reads!
          Deeds, which in ev'ry country, clime, and age,
          Have fill'd the poet's and historian's page;
          Of ev'ry muse the theme, and ev'ry pen:
          Ye I invoke! and ye, my countrymen,
          If British blood yet flows within your veins,
          If for your country aught of love remains,
          O make your first, your chief, your only care,
          That which first rais'd and made you what you were.'"

CHELTONIAN CHARACTERS.

A TRIP TO THE SPAS.

CHAPTER I.

~223~~

     Bernard Blackmantle and Bob Transit pay a Visit to the
     Chelts--Privileges of a Spy--Alarm at Chelten-him--The rival
     Editors--The setting of a great Son--How to sink in
     Popularity and Respect--A noble Title--An old Flame--
     Poetical jeu d'esprit, by Vinegar Penn--Muriatic Acid--An
     Attorney-General's Opinion on Family Propensities given
     without a Fee!!--The Cheltenham Dandy, or the Man in the
     Cloak, a Sketch from the Life-Noble Anecdote of the Fox-
     hunting Parson--Bury-ing alive at Berkeley--Public
     Theatricals in private--"A Michaelmas Preachment," by an
     Honest Reviewer--A few Words for Ourselves--The Grand
     Marshall--Interesting Story of a former M. C.

          "Oh, I've been to countries rare;
          Seen such sights, 'twould make you stare."

"That last chapter of yours, Blackmantle, on John Long and John Long's customers, will long
remain a memorial of your scrutinizing qualifications, and, as I think, will prevent your taking
your port, punch, pines, or soda-water in Bond-street for some time to come, lest 'suspicion,
which ever haunts the guilty mind,' should in the course of conversation convict you; and then,
my dear fellow, you would certainly go off pop like the last-mentioned article in the above
reference to the luxuries of Long's hotel." ~224~~"Bravo, Bob Transit!" said I; "this comes
mighty well from you, sir, my fidus achates.--'A bon chat bon rat'--the fidus and audax satirists
of the present times. And who, sir, dares to doubt our joint authority? are we not the very
spies o' the age?

          'Joint monarchs of all we survey;
          Our right there is none to dispute.'

From the throne to, the thatched cottage, wherever there is character, 'there fly we,' and,
on the wings of merry humour, draw with pen and pencil a faithful portraiture of things as
they are; not tearing aside the hallowed veil of private life, but seizing as of public right
on public character, and with a playful vein of satire proving that we are of the poet's school;

          'Form'd to delight at once and lash the age.'

          At this season of the year fashion cries out of
          Town; so, pack up, Master Robert, and
          Let us to Chelt's retiring banks,
          Where beaux and beauties throng,
          To drink at Spas and play rum pranks,
          That here will live in song.

What Cheltenham was, is no business of ours; what it is, as regards its buildings, salubrious
air, and saline springs, its walks, views, libraries, theatre, and varieties, my friend Williams,
whose shop at the corner of the assembly rooms is the grand lounge of the literati, will put
the visitor into possession of for the very moderate sum of five shillings. But, reader, if
you would search deeper into society, and know something of the whim and character of the frequenters
and residents of this fashionable place of public resort, you must consult the English Spy,
and trace in his pages and the accompanying plates of his friend Bob Transit the faithful likenesses
of the scenes and persons who figure in the maze of fashion, ~225~~or attract attention by
the notoriety of their amours, the eccentricity of their manners, or the publicity of their
attachments to the ball or the billiard-room, the card or the hazard-table, the turf or the
chase; for in all of these does Cheltenham abound. From the cercle de la basse to the cercle
de la haute, from the nadir to the zenith, 'I know ye, and have at ye all'--ye busy, buzzing,
merry, amorous groups of laughter-loving, ogling, ambling, gambling Cheltenham folk.

          'A chiel's among ye taking notes,
          And faith, he'll print them.'

To spy out your characteristic follies, ye sons and daughters of pleasure, have we, Bernard
Blackmantle and Robert Transit, esquires, travelled down to Cheltenham to collect materials
for an odd chapter of a very odd book, but one which has already established its fame by continued
success, and, as I hope owes much of its increasing prosperity to its characteristic good-humour;
so, without more preface, imagine a little dapper-looking fellow of about five feet something
in altitude, attended by a tall sharp-visaged gentleman in very spruce costume, parading up
and down the High-street, Cheltenham--lounging for a few minutes in Williams's library--making
very inquisitive remarks upon the passing singularities--and then the little man most impertinently
whispering to his friend with the Quixotic visage, book him, Bob--when out comes the note book
of both parties, and down goes somebody. Afterwards see them popping into this shop, and then
into the other, spying and prying about--occasionally nodding perhaps to a London actor, who
shines forth here a star of the first magnitude; John Liston, for instance, or Tyrone Power--then
posting off to the well walks, or disturbing the peaceful dead by ambling over their graves
in search of humorous epitaphs--making their way down to the Berkeley kennel in North-street
(See Plate), ~226~~or paying a visit to the Paphian divinities at the Oakland cottages under
the Cleigh Hills--trotting here and there--making notes and sketches until all Cheltenham is
in a state of high excitement, and the rival editors of the Chronicle and Journal, Messrs.
Halpine and Judge, are so much alarmed that they are almost prepared to become friends, and
unite their forces for the time against the common enemy.

Imagine such an animated, whispering, gazing, inquiring scene, as I have here presented you
with a slight sketch of, and, reader, you will be able to form some idea of the first appearance
of the English Spy and his friend the artist, among the ways and walks of merry Cheltenham.
Then here

          'At once, I dedicate my lay
          To the gay groups that round me swarm,
          Like May-bees round the honied hive,
          When fields are green, and skies are warm
          And all in nature seems alive.'

Time was, a certain amorous colonel carried every thing here, and bore away the belle from
all competitors; the hunt, the ball, the theatre, and the card-party all owned his sovereign
sway; although it must be admitted, that, in the latter amusement, he seldom or ever hazarded
enough to disturb his financial recollections on the morrow. But time works wonders--notoriety
is of two complexions, and what may render a man a very agreeable companion to foxhunters and
frolicsome lordlings, is not always the best calculated to recommend him in the eyes of the
accomplished and the rigid in matters of moral propriety. But other equally celebrated and
less worthy predilections have been trumpeted forth in courts and newspapers, until the fame
of the colonel has spread itself through every grade of society, and, unlike that wreath which
usually decks the gallant soldier's brow, a cypress chaplet binds the early gray, and makes
admonitory signal of the ill-spent past. The wrongs of an injured ~227~~and confiding husband,
whose fortunes, wrecked by the false seducer, have left him a prey to shattered ruin, yet live
in the remembrance of some honest Cheltenham hearts; and although these may feel for the now
abandoned object of his illicit passion, there are but few who, while they drop a tear of pity
as she passes them daily in the street, do not invoke a nobler feeling of indignation upon
the ruthless head of him who forged the shafts of misery, and pierced at one fell blow the
hearts of husband, wife, and children! What father that has read Maria's hapless tale of woe,
and marked the progress of deceptive vice, will hereafter hazard the reputation of his daughters
by suffering them to mix in Cheltenham society with the branded seducer and his profligate
associates? Gallantry, an unrestricted love of the fair sex, and a predilection for variety,
may all be indulged in this country to any extent, without betraying confidence on the one
hand or innocence upon the other, without outraging decency, or violating the established usages
of society. While the profligate confines his sensual pleasures with such objects as I allude
to within the walls of his harem, the moralist has no right to trespass upon his privacy; it
is only when they are blazoned forth to public view, and daringly opposed to public scorn,
that the lash of the satirist is essentially useful, if not in correcting, at least in exposing
the systematic seducer, and putting the inexperienced and the virtuous on their guard against
the practice of profligacy. It is the frequency and notoriety of such scenes that has at last
alarmed the Chelts, who, fearing more for their suffering interests than for their suffering
fellow-creatures, begin to murmur rather loudly against the Berkeley Adonis, representing that
the town itself suffers in respectability and increase of visitors, by its being known as the
rendezvous of the bloods and blacks of Berkeley. The truth of this assertion may be gathered
from the ~228~~following jeu d' esprit, only one among a hundred of such squibs that have been
very freely circulated in Cheltenham and the neighbourhood within the last year.

          'NEWS FROM CHELTENHAM.

          'The season runs smartly in Cheltenham's town,
          The gossips are up, and the colonel is down;
          He has taken the place of the famous Old Gun {1}
          That exploded last year, and created some fun.
          Were no lives then lost? some say, Yes! and some, No!
          The report even shook the old walls of Glasgow.{2}
          And the Bushe was found out to be no safe retreat,
          For in love, as in war, you may chance to be beat;
          And a hell-shaming fellow can never be reckon'd,
          Whate'er he may publish, a capital second.'

"But now having had our fling at his vices, let us speak of him more agreeably; for the fellow
hath some qualifications which, if humour suit, enables him to shine forth a star of the first
magnitude among bons vivants and sporting characters, who ride, amble, and vegetate upon the
banks of the Chelt. Such is his love of hunting, a pleasure in which he not only indulges himself,
but enables others, his friends, to participate with him, by keeping up a numerous stud of
thirty well trained horses, and a double pack of fox-hounds, that no appropriate day may be
lost, nor any opportunity missed, of pursuing the sports of the chase. This is as it should
be, and smacks of that glorious spirit which animated his ancestors; although the violence
of his temper will sometimes break out even here, in the field, when some young and forward
Nimrod, unable to restrain his fiery steed, o'er-caps the hounds, or crosses the scent. As
the Chelts are, or have been, greatly benefited by the hounds being kept alternately during
the hunting months between

     1  A good-morrow to you, Captain Gun.

     2  Miss Glasgow, divine perfection of antique virgin purity!
     what could the poet mean by this allusion?

~229~~Cheltenham and Gloucester, they must at least feel some little gratitude to be due to
the man who is the cause of such an increase of society, and consequent expenditure of cash.
But, say they, we lose in a fourfold degree; for the respectable portion of the fashionable
visitants have of late cut us entirely, to save their sons and daughters from pollution and
ruin, by association or the force of example. 'Tis not in the nature of the English Spy rudely
to draw aside the curtain, even to expose the midnight revelries and debaucheries, of which
he possesses some extraordinary anecdotes; events, which, if recorded here, would, in the language
of the poet,

          'Give ample room, and verge enough,
          The characters of hell to trace;
          How through each circling year, on many a night,
          Have Severn's waves re-echoed with affright
          The shrieks of (maids) through Berkeley's roofs that ring.'

"But let these tales be told hereafter, as no doubt they will be, by the creatures who now
pander to vice, when the satiated and the sullen chief sinks into decay, or cuts from his emaciated
trunk the filthy excrescences which, like poisonous fungus, suck the sap of honour and of life.
The colonel hath had many trials in this life, and much to break down a noble and a proud spirit.
In earlier days, a question of birthright, while it cut off one entail, brought on another,
which entailed a name, not the ancient gift of a monarch, but one still more ancient, and,
according to Dodsley's Chronology of the Kings of England, the origin of British sovereignty
itself--a 'filius nullius,' a title that left it open to the wearer to have established his
own fame, and to have been the architect of a nobler fortune; for

          'Who nobly acts may hold to scorn
          The man who is but nobly born.'

"Had the colonel acted thus, there is little doubt but long ere this the kind heart of his
Majesty would have ~230~~warmed into graciousness as he reflected upon the untoward circumstances
which removed from the eldest born of an ancient house the honours of its armorial bearings;
the engrailed bar might have been erased from the shield, and the coronet of nobility have
graced the elder brother, without invading the legal designation or claims of the legitimate
younger; but

          I sing of a day that is gone and past,
          Of a chance that is lost, and a die that's cast.

And even now, while I am sermonizing on late events but too notorious, the busy hum of many
voices buzzes a tale upon the ear that sickens with its unparalleled profligacy; but the English
Spy, the faithful historian of the present times, refuses to stain his pages by giving credit
to, or recording, the imputed profligate connexion. Adieu, monsieur the colonel; fain would
I have passed you by without this comment; but your association with the black spirits of the
'Age'{3} has placed you upon a pedestal, the proper mark for satire to shoot her barbed arrows at.

"But let us take a turn down the High Street; and as I live here comes an old flame of the
colonel's, Miss R*g*rs, who is now turned into Mrs. E***n, and who, it is said, most wickedly
turned her pen, and pointed the following jeu d'esprit against her late protector, when he
was laid up by a serious accident, which happened to his knee after the more serious loss of
a--Foote.

     3 "A fellow-feeling makes us wondrous kind" says Pope; and
     it would appear so from the intimacy which subsists between
     the colonel and his jackall Bunn, the would-be captain, who
     it is said is the filius nullius of old Ben Bunn the
     conveyancer, not of legal title or estate by roll of
     parchment, but of the very soil itself. Lord W. Lennox, too,
     no doubt, prides himself upon the illegitimate origin of his
     ancestry; and the publisher of the infamous scandals
     manufactured in the Quadrant is also of the same kidney,
     being the reputed natural son of jolly old Bardolph Jennyns.
     What the remaining portion of the coterie spring from, the
     Gents and Bs., the sensitive nose of a sensible man will
     very easily discover.

~231~~

          'To Cupid's colonel help, ye people all;
          He's missed his Footing, 'Pride has had a fall;'
          The knee's uncapp'd, the calf laid open quite,
          The Foote presents the most distressing sight;
          Its form so perfect, pity none were nigh,
          With warning voice to guard from injury.
          Waltzers! your peerless partner view,
          The gallant gay Lothario quite perdu;
          Sans Foote to rest upon, his claims deny'd
          To take a birth by English nobles' side.
          Let him to Cheltenham, 'tis not to go far;
          He's sure to find a seat--on Irish car.'

"I am told, but I cannot discover the allusion myself, that Miss B*g*rs was prompted to this
effusion of the satiric muse by the green-eyed monster, Jealousy, Observe that machine yonder,
rumbling up the street like an Irish jaunting-car, that contains the numerous family of M***r,
the vinegar merchant, whose lady being considered by the Chelts as lineally descended from
the Tartar race, they have very facetiously nicknamed muriatic acid. The mad wag with the sandy
whiskers yonder, and somewhat pleasant-looking countenance, is a second-hand friend of the
colonel's; mark how he is ogling the young thing in the milliner's shop through the window:
his daily occupation, making assignations, and his nightly amusement, a new favourite. A story
is told of his father, a highly respected legal character in the Emerald Isle, that, on being
asked by a friend why his son had left the country, replied, 'By Jasus, sir, it was high time:
sure I am there's enough of the family left behind. Is not his lady in a promising way, and
both his female servants, and those of two or three of his friends, and are not both mine in
a similar situation? Zounds, sir, if he had remained here much longer, there would not have
been a single female in the whole country. However, 'Good wine, they say, needs no Bushe,'
so I shall leave him unmarked by his family cognomen, lest this ~232~~should be taken as a
puff-card of his capabilities, and thereby add to the list of his Cytherean exploits. In a
late affair, when the colonel was called out (but did not come), Sir Patrick beat about the
Bushe for him very judiciously, and by great skill in diplomacy enabled his friend to come
off second best. But here comes one who stands at odds with description, and attracts more
notice in Cheltenham than even the colonel, his companions, and all the metropolitan visitory
put together. If I was to lend myself to the circulation of half the strange tales related
of him by the Chelts, I could fill a small-sized volume; but brevity is the soul of wit, and
the eccentric Mackey, with all his peculiarities and strange fancies for midnight mastications,
has a soul superior to the common herd, and a 'heart and hand, open as day, to melting charity.'
It is strange, 'passing strange,' that one so rich and fond of society, and well-descended
withal, should choose thus to ape the ridiculous; a man, too, if report speaks truly, of no
ordinary talents as a writer on finance, and an expounder of the solar system. Vanity! vanity!
what strange fantasies and eccentric fooleries dost thou sometimes fill the brain of the biped
with, confining thy freaks, however, to that strange animal--man. The countenance of our eccentric
is placid and agreeable, and, provided it was cleared of a load of snuff, which weighs down
the upper lip, might be said to be, although in the sear o' the leaf, highly intellectual;
but the old Scotch cloak, the broad-brimmed hat of the covenanter, the loose under vest, the
thread-bare coat shaking in the wind, like the unmeasured garment of the scarecrow, and the
colour-driven nankeens, grown short by age and frequent hard rubbings; then, too, the flowing
locks of iron gray straggling over the shoulders like the withered tendrils of a blighted vine--all
conspire to arrest the attention of an inquisitive eye; yet the Chelts know but little ~233~~about
his history, beyond his being a man of good property, the proprietor of the Vittoria boarding-house,
inoffensive in manners, obliging in disposition, and intelligent in conversation. His great
penchant is a midnight supper, stewed chicken and mushrooms, or any other choice and highly-seasoned
dish; to enjoy which in perfection, he hath a maiden sleeping at the foot of his bed ready
to attend his commands, which, it is said, are communicated to her in a very singular way;
no particle of speech being used to disturb the solemn silence of the night, but a long cane
reaching downwards to the slumbering maid, by certain horizontal taps against her side, propelled
forward by the hand of the craving gourmand, wakes her to action, and the banquet, piping-hot
from the stew-pan, smokes upon the board, unlike a vision, sending up real and enchanting odoriferous
perfumes beneath his olfactory organs. Extraordinary as this account may appear, it is, I believe,
strictly true, and is the great feature of the eccentric's peculiarities, all the minor whims
and fancies being of a subordinate and uninteresting nature. I shall conclude my notice of
him by relating an action that would do honour to a king, and will excuse the eccentric with
the world, although his follies were ten times more remarkable. During the suspension of payments
by one of the Cheltenham banks, and when all the poorer class of mechanics and labourers were
in a most piteous situation from the unprecedented number of one pound provincial notes then
in circulation, Mr. Mackey, to his eternal-honour be it related, and without the remotest interest
in the bank, stepped nobly forward, unsolicited and unsupported, gave to all the poor people
who held the one pound notes the full value for them, reserving to himself only the chance
of the dividend. Ye Berkeleys, Ducies, Lennoxes, Cravens, Hammonds, Bushes, Molineauxes, and
Coventrys, and all the long list of Cheltenham gay! ~234~~show me an action like this ye have
done--a spirit so noble, when did you display?--Do you see that rosy-gilled fellow coming this
way, with a hunting-whip in his hand? in costume, more like a country horse-dealer than a country
clergyman; yet such he was, until the bishop of the diocese removed the clerical incumbrance
of the cassock, to give the wearer freer license to indulge his vein for hunting, coursing,
cock-fighting, and the unrestricted pleasures of the table and the bottle. A good story is
told of him and his friend, the colonel, who, having invited some unsophisticated farmer to
partake of the festivities of the castle, laid him low with strong potations of black strap,
and in that state had him carried forth to the stable-yard, where he was immured up to his
neck in warm horse-dung, the pious ex-chaplain reading the burial-service over him in presence
of the surviving members of the hunt."

"Who the deuce is that pleasant-looking fellow," said Bob, "who appears to give and gain the
quid pro quo from every body that passes him?" "That, my dear fellow, is the Grand Marshal
of all the merry meetings here, and a very gentlemanly, jovial, and witty fellow; just such
a man as should fill the office of master of the ceremonies, having both seen and experienced
enough of the world to know how to estimate character almost at a first interview; he is highly
and deservedly respected. There is a very affecting anecdote in circulation respecting his
predecessor, the detail of which I much regret that I have lost; but the spirit of the affair
was too strongly imprinted upon my memory to be easily obliterated. He had, it appears, loved
a beauteous girl in early life, and met with a reciprocal return; but the stern mandate of
parental authority prevented their union. The lover, almost broken-hearted, sought a distant
clime, and, after years of peril, returned to England, bringing with him a wife. The match
had been one ~235~~of interest, and they are seldom those of domestic bliss. It proved so here--he
became dissipated, and squandered away the property he had possessed himself of by marriage.
In this situation, he collected together the wreck of his fortunes, and retired to Cheltenham,
where his amiable qualities and gentlemanly conduct endeared him to a large circle of acquaintance,
and, in the end, he was induced to accept the situation of master of the ceremonies. Time rolled
on, and his former partner being dead, he was, from his volatile and thoughtless disposition,
again plunged in difficulties, and imprisoned for debt. The circumstance became known to her
at whose shrine in early life he had vowed eternal devotion: with a still fond recollection
of him, who alone had ever shared her heart, she hastened to the spot, and, being now a wealthy
spinster, paid all his debts and released him from durance. Gratitude and love both pointed
out the course for the obliged M. c. to pursue; but, alas! there is nothing certain in the
anticipations of complete happiness in this life. The lady fell suddenly sick, and died on
the very day they were to have been married, leaving him sole executor of her property. The
calamitous event made such a deep impression upon a feeling mind, already shaken by trouble
and disease, that finding his prospects of bliss again blighted without a chance of recovery,
he fell into a state of despondency, and was, within a week, laid a corpse by the side of his
first love. At the post-office,--purposely placed out of the way by the sagacious Chelts to
give strangers the trouble of making inquiries,--I received the following whim from the same
witty pen who wrote me, anonymously, an inauguration ode to commence my second volume with."
"Who is this whimsical spirit in the clouds?" said Bob. "Ay, lad," I retorted, "that's just
the inquiry I have been making for the last eight months: ~236~~although it would appear we
have--ad interim--been running, riding, racing, rowing, and sailing together in various parts
of the kingdom, you perceive, Bob, there are more Spies than ourselves at work. However, this
must be some protecting geni who hovers over our heads and fans the air on silken wing, wafting
zephyr-like the ambrosial breeze, where'er our merry fancies stray. Anon, 'we'll drink a measure
the table round;' and if we forget the 'Honest Reviewer,' may we lose all relish for a racy
joke, and be forgotten ourselves by the lovers of good fellowship and good things." "Which
we never shall be," said Bob; "for those eccentric tomes of ours must and will continue to
amuse a laughter-loving age, when we are booked inside and bound for t'other world." There
was not a little egotism, methought, about friend Transit's eulogy; but as every parent has
a sort of poetical licence allowed him in praising his own bantlings, perhaps the patronage
bestowed by the public upon the English Spy may excuse a little vanity in either the author
or the artist. "But you are the great magician o' the south yourself, Bernard," continued Transit,
"and will you not use your power, you who can 'call spirits from the vasty deep'" "True, Bob;
I can call, but will they come when I shall command? However, let us retire to our inn, and
after dinner we'll chant his lay; and if he dances not to the music of his own metre, then
hath he no true inspiration in him, and is a poet without vanity, a vara avis who delighteth
not in receiving the reward of merit; so on, old fellow, to our quarters, where we will

          'Carve the goose, and quaff the wine,'
          And wish our sprite were here to dine--
          We'd give him hearty cheer;
          A welcome such as hand and heart
          To kindred spirits should impart,
          Where friendship reigns sincere.'

~237~~We would punish him for sending his odes to us without sending his family cognomen therewith.
Have we not done him immortal honour--placed him in front of our second volume like a golden
dedication, and what is more, selected him from many a pleasant whim, to stand by our side;
the only associate who can claim one line engrafted on to the never-ending fame of the English
Spy?--But to the 'Preachment;' let us have another taste of his quality."

A SECOND ODE TO BERNARD BLACKMANTLE, ESQ.

or A MICHAELMAS-DAY PREACHMENT.

BY AN HONEST REVIEWER.

          "Iterumque, iterumque vocabo."--Ancient Classics.

          "'Tis a lucky day, boy, and we'll do goods on't."
          --Winter's Tale.

          "Ours is the skie,
          Where at what fowle we please our hawks shall flie."
          --Anon.

          Ay, here I come once more, great sir,
          Out of pure love to minister
          Some golden truths to thee;
          Faustus ye're not, nor Frankenstein,
          Yet, being up to trap, I ween
          You'll need a sprite like me.

          Eve watch'd you closely, my young squire,
          Since at vol. two I cool'd the ire
          That left a little stain;
          And therefore wonder not, sweet Spy,
          Since both of us at follies fly,
          Your "Tonson comes again."

~238~~

          This is the day of Michaelmas.
          Many would say, ay, "let that pass"
          As a forgotten thing.
          Not so with us, our rent we pay,
          And do we not, on quarter-day,
          Our taxes to the king?

          Since, then, "our withers are unwrung,"
          And we need wish no blister'd tongue
          To creditors and duns,
          Let's carve the goose, and quaff the wine,
          And toast September twenty-nine,
          Nor mark how fast time runs.

          We've clone the same; that is, we've quaffd,
          And sung, and danced, and drunk, and laugh'd,
          When we were half seas over;
          I don't mean tipsy, bless you, no!
          But when we pass'd, like dart from bow,
          Cowes Roads on board the Rover.

          So pipe all hands; for though no gale
          From sea-wash'd shores distend our sail,
          We'll man a vessel here.
          This room's our ship; this wine's our tide;
          And the good friends we sit beside,
          The messmates of our cheer.

          Ay, this looks well; now till the glass
          To king, to country, and our lass,
          And all of pluck and feather;
          That done around, and nothing loth,
          Since we are "learned Thebans" both,

          We'll have some talk together.
          You've been to Cheltenham, I find,
          And, zounds! you really ride the wind,
          To Bath and Worcester too;
          To South'ton and the Isle of Wight,
          As if increase of appetite
          With every new dish grew.

~239

          But it was really infra dig.
          Spite of your old horse and new gig,
          You did not, some fine morn,
          Drive up to Malcolm Ghur, d'ye see,{4}
          And leave two pretty cards for me
          And Sir John Barleycorn.

          We would have been your chorus, sir,
          Or, an' you pleased, your trumpeter,
          And lioned you about;
          Have shown you every pretty girl,
          And every nouvelle quadrille twirl,
          And every crowded rout.

          At eight o' morns have call'd you down,
          (What would they say of that in town?)
          To swallow pump-room water;
          At eight o' nights have call'd you up,
          (Our grandams used just then to sup),
          To 'gin the dinner slaughter.

          Have whisk'd you o'er to Colonel B's,
          Or drove you up to Captain P's,
          Dons unto Cheltenham steady.
          But I forget the world, good lack,
          Have play'd enough with such a pack
          Of great court-cards already.

     4 Malcolm Ghur, one of the very prettiest of the many pretty
     newly-erected mansions that give a character to the environs
     of Cheltenham. To its proprietor do I owe much for
     hospitality; a merrier man, withal, dwells not in my
     remembrance; he is of your first-rate whist players, though
     he rarely now joins in the game. As the chaplain of the
     county-lodge of F. M. he is much distinguished; and, at the
     dinners of the Friendly Brothers--which are luxurious
     indeed, and all for the "immortal memory" of William, king
     of that name, and whose portrait ornaments their reading-
     room--who better than he can "set the table in a roar"?

~240~~

          Have set you down at ten pound whist
          With A-------y, and the au fait list,{5}
          Turning your nights to days;
          Or, somewhat wiser, bid you mix
          Where less expensive are odd tricks,
          And where friend R-------n plays.{6}

          Have made you try a double trade,
          By clapping you in masquerade,
          To jaunt at fancy-balls;
          You would have seen some merry sights
          On two or three particular nights,
          In good Miss-----------'s halls.{7}

          You could have gone as harlequin,
          Or clad yourself in Zamiel's skin,
          Your tending spirits we;
          Or "Peeping Tom" may be more apt,
          Since all are in your record clapp'd
          We send to Coventry.

     5 Colonel A------y, certainly tho first whist player of the
     rooms.

     If he ever drilled a company of raw recruits half as well as
     he manages a handful of bad cards, he must have been the
     very admirable Crichton of soldiership.

     6 Mr. R------n, a facetious and good-humoured son of Erin;
     true

     as clock-work to the board of green cloth, though he has
     been an age making a fortune from it.

     7 Among the most fashionable amusements of Cheltenham are
     the fancy-balls, given by two or three of the principal
     sojourners in that place, of card-playing, scandal,
     freemasonry, and hot water--God knows how many are in the
     latter ingredient!    The most splendid I recollect was
     given by Colonel---------, or rather Miss---------, whose
     protégé he married; touching which alliance, there is a
     story of some interest and much romance. Of that, as Pierce
     Egan says very wittily in every critique, "of that anon."
     There certainly was some fun and humour displayed by a few
     of the characters on the particular evening I mention; the
     two best performers were   a   reverend   gentleman   as
     one   of   Russell's waggoners, inimitably portrayed, and
     Captain B. A-----e, not the author of "To Day," but his
     brother, as an Indian prince. The dress, appearance, and
     language to the life.

~241~~

          Yet still you've shown us, my smart beau,
          Things that we should and should not know,
          Vide the Oakland cots.
          Bernard Blackmantle, learned Spy,
          Don't you think hundreds will cry fie,
          If you expose such plots?

          You should have told them as I do,
          And yet I love your hunters too,
          That nothing is so vile
          As strutting up and down a street,8
          Dirt-spatter'd o'er from head to feet,
          In the horse-jockey style.

          Ne sutor ultra crep, should tell
          These red-coats 'tis a paltry swell,
          Such careless customs backing;
          If they must strut in spurs and boots,
          For once I'd join the chalk recruits,
          And shout, "Use Turner's Blacking."

          Howe'er, push on--there are of all,
          Good, bad, high, low, and short, and tall,
          That seek from you decrees.
          Fear not, strike strong--you must not fly--
          We will have shots enough--I'm by,
          A Mephistopheles.

     8 There surely is much and offensive vanity in the practice
     adopted by many members of the B. H. of appearing on the
     pro-menades and in the rooms of Cheltenham, bespattered o'er
     with the slush and foam of the hunting field. Every
     situation has its decent appropriations, and one would
     suppose comfort would have taught these Nimrods a better
     lesson. It is pardonable for children to wear their
     Valentines on the 14th of February, or for a young ensign to
     strut about armed cap à pie for the first week of his
     appointment; but the fashion of showing off in a red jerkin,
     soiled smalls, mudded boots, and blooded spurs, is not
     imitable: there is nothing of the old manhood of sport in
     it; foppery and fox-hunting are not synonymous. Members of
     the B. H. look to it; follow no leader in this respect. Or,
     if you must needs persevere, turn your next fox out in the
     ball-room, and let the huntsman's horn and the view halloo
     supersede the necessity of harps and fiddle-strings.

~242~~

We'll learn and con them each by heart, Set them in note books by our art, Each lord, and duke,
and tailor. From Dr. S------{9} to Peter K------, U------, O------, and I------, and E-----,
and A------, Down to the ploughman Naylor.{10}

Then let them sow their crop of cares, Their flowers, their weeds, their fruit, their tares,
Not looking ere they leap. We, like the folks in Jamie's book{11} Will i' the dark sharp up
our hook, And, my own Barnard, reap.

     9 Dr. S---------e, a very singular, but a very hearty kind
     of Caleb Quotem. He has been soldier, and sailor, doctor,
     and, I believe, divine. He is as well known at the best
     parties as the Wells and the Market-house. He gives feasts
     fit for the gods at home, and invariably credits his
     neighbours' viands as being Jove's nectar or the fruits of
     Paradise, so as to him they be not forbidden. Short commons
     could not upset his politeness.

     10   Mr. Naylor, of the Plough hotel; an excellent Boniface,
     a good friend, and a merry companion. As a boy, I recollect
     him keeping the Castle at Marlborough; at "frisky
     eighteen," I have contributed to his success at the Crown at
     Portsmouth; and I now, older, and it may be, a little wiser
     grown, patronize him occasionally at Cheltenham.

     11  Vide Hogg's Brownie of Bodsbeck.

A TRIP TO THE SPAS.

~243~~

CHAPTER II.

     The Spas--Medicinal Properties--Interesting specimens of
     the Picturesque--"Spasmodic Affections from Spa Waters"--
     Grotesque Scripture--The Goddess Hygeia--Humorous Epitaph--
     Characters in the High Street--Traveller's Hall, or Sketches
     in the Commercial Room at the Bell Inn, Cheltenham.

          "For walks and for waters, for beaux and for belles,
          There's nothing in nature to rival their wells."

Inquisitive traveller, if you would see the Well-walks in perfection, you must rise early,
and take a sip of the saline aperients before you taste of the more substantial meal which
the Plough-man. Naylor, or the Cheltenham Bell-man, or the Shep-herd of the Fleece, will be
sure to prepare for your morning mastication. Fashion always requires some talismanic power
to draw her votaries together, beyond the mere healthful attractions of salubrious air, pleasant
rides, romantic scenery, and cheerful society; and this magnet the Chelts possess in the acknowledged
medicinal properties of their numerous spas, the superior qualities of which have been thus
pleasantly poetized:--

          "They're a healthful, and harmless, and purgative potion,
          And as purely saline as the wave of the ocean,
          Whilst their rapid effects like a----
          ----Hush! never mind;
          We'll leave their effects altogether behind."

In short, if you wish to obtain benefit by the drinking of the waters, you must do it dulcius
ex ipso fonte, as my Lord Bottle-it-out's system, the nobleman who originally planned the Well-walks,
of sending it home ~244~~to the drinkers in bed, has long since been completely exploded; while,
on the other hand, its rapid effects have been very faithfully delineated by my friend Transit's
view of the Royal Wells, as they appeared on the morning of our visitation, presenting some
very interesting specimens of the picturesque in the Cruikshank style, actually drawn upon
the spot, and affording to the eye of a common observer the most indubitable proofs of the
active properties of the

          Sulphate of soda, and oxide of iron,
          And gases, that none but the muse of a Byron
          Would attempt to describe in the magic of sound,
          Lest it made a report ere he'd quitted the ground;
          And poets are costive, as all the world knows,
          And value no fame that smells under their nose.

"Would you like to take off a glass of the waters, sir?" said a very respectable-looking old
lady to my friend Transit, who was at that moment too busily engaged in taking off the water-drinkers
to pay attention to her request. "There's a beautiful contortion!" exclaimed Bob; sketching
a beau who exhibited in his countenance all the horrors of cholera, and was running away as
fast as his legs could carry him. "See, with what alacrity the old gentleman is moving off
yonder, making as many wry faces as if he had swallowed an ounce of corrosive sublimate--and
the ladies too, bless me, how their angelic smiles evaporate, and the roseate bloom of their
cheeks is changed to the delicate tint of the lily, as they partake of these waters. What an
admirable school for study is this! here we can observe every transition the human countenance
is capable of expressing, from a ruddy state of health and happiness, to one of extreme torture,
without charging our feelings with violence, and knowing that the pains are those of the patient's
own seeking, and the penalties not of any long duration." In short, my friend Bob furnished,
instanter, the subject of "Spasmodic Affections from, ~245~~Spa Waters," (see plate); certainly
one of his most spirited efforts.

But we must not pass by the elegant structure of Montpelier Spa, the property of Pearson Thompson,
esquire, whose gentlemanly manners, superior talents, and kind conduct, have much endeared
him to all who know him as an acquaintance, and more to those who call him their friend. Passing
on the left-hand side of the upper well-walk, we found ourselves before this tasteful structure,
and were much delighted with the arrangement of the extensive walks and grounds by which it
is surrounded:--a health-inspiring spot, and as we are told,

          "Where Thompson's supreme and immaculate taste
          Has a paradise form'd from a wilderness waste;
          With his walks rectilineous, all shelter'd with trees,
          That shut out the sunshine and baffle the breeze,
          And a field, where the daughters of Erin{12}may roam
          In a fence of sweet-brier, and think they're at home."

The Sherborne Spa, but recently erected, is indeed a very splendid building, and forms a very
beautiful object from the High-street, from which it is plainly seen through a grove of trees,
forming a vista of nearly half a mile in length, standing on a gentle eminence, presenting
on both sides gravelled walks, with gardens and elegant buildings, that display great taste
in architecture. The Pump-room is a good specimen of the Grecian Ionic, said to be correctly
modelled from the temple on the river Ilissus at Athens, and certainly is altogether a work
worthy of admiration. The grotesque colossal piece of sculpture which crowns the central dome,
as well as the building, has been wittily described by the author of the "Cheltenham Mail."

     12 The great number of Irish families who reside and
     congregate at Cheltenham fully justifies the poet's
     particular allusion to the fair daughters of Erin.

~246~~

          "And then lower down, in fine Leckampton stone,
          We've the fane of Ilissus in miniature shown;
          And crown'd with Hygeia--a bouncer, my lud!
          And as plump, ay, as any princess of the blood,
          Carved in stone, but a good imitation of wood:
          With her vest all in plaits, like some ancient costume,
          But or Roman or Grecian, I'm loth to presume,
          So I cannot be poz yet I blush to confess,
          That her limbs are shown off in a little undress;
          Whilst the goddess herself, en bon point as she is,
          With her curls à la Grecque, and but little chemise,
          Is so plump and so round, my dear sir, it is plain,
          She must bring the robust into fashion again."

Coming back through the churchyard from Alstone Spa, we discovered the following humorous epitaph.

          "Here lies John Ball;
          An unfortunate fall,
          By crossing a wall,
          Brought him to his end."

Peace to his manes! But, with such a notice above him to excite attention, it is well he hears
not, or ten times a clay his sleep might be sadly disturbed. Once more we are in the High Street,
where I shall just sketch two or three singularities, without which my notice of the eccentrics
of Cheltenham might be deemed imperfect.

The dashing knight coming this way on horseback, with his double-pommelled saddle, is a well-known
Cheltenham resident, whose love of the good things of this world induced him to look into the
kitchen for a helpmate, and he found one, who not only supplies his table with excellent dishes,
but also furnishes the banquet with a liberal quantity of sauce. The group of roués to the
right, standing under the portico (I suppose I must call it) to the rooms, is composed of that
good-humoured fellow Ormsby, who sometimes figures here as an amateur actor, and, whether on
or off the stage, is generally respected for the amiable qualities of his heart. The ~247~~gentleman
with the blue bauble round his neck is, or was, a lieutenant-colonel, and still loves to fire
a great gun now and then, when he gets into the trenches before Seringapatam; but I must leave
others to unriddle the character, while I pay my respects to another military hero, who is
no less famous among the Chelts for his attachment to the stage--Lieutenant-colonel B*****ll,
of whom it would be difficult for any one who knew him to speak disrespectfully. Sir John N****tt
and his son, who are here called the inseparables, finish the picture upon this spot, with
the exception of my old friend the jack of trumps, R*l*y, whose arch-looking visage I perceive
peeping out like the first glance of a court card in the rear of a bad hand; but let him pass:
the mirror of the English Spy reflects good qualities as well as bad ones, and I should not
do him justice if I denied him a fair proportion of both. Descending to observe the eccentrics
in a more humble sphere, who can pass by the dandy candy man with his box of sweetmeats, clean
in person as a new penny, and his sturdy figure most religiously decorated with lawn sleeves,
and a churchman's tablier in front; while his ruddy weather-beaten countenance, and hairy foraging
cap, give him the appearance of a Scotch presbyterian militant in the days of the covenanters.
Then, too, his wares cure all diseases, from a ravaging consumption to a frame-shaking hooping
cough; and not unlikely are as efficacious as the nostrums of the less Mundivagant professors
of patent empiricism. Of all men in the world your coach cad has the quickest eye for detecting
a stranger; and who but Sam Spring, the box-book keeper of Drury Lane, whose eternal bow has
grown proverbial, could ask an impudent question with more politeness than Mr. Court, the chargé
de affaires in the High Street, for the conflicting interests of half a hundred coach proprietors
1 "Do you travel to-day, sir?--Very happy to send for your luggage--Go by the early coach,
sir?--Our porter ~248~~shall call you up, only let me put you down at our office." Thus actually
bowing you into his book a week before you had any serious intention of travelling, by the
very circumstance of reminding you of the mode by which you intend to reach home. I could add
to these sketches a few singularities among the trading brotherhood of the Chelts; but we may
meet again: and after all it would, perhaps, be considered invidious to point out the honest
tradesman to public notice, merely because he has caught something of the eccentricities of
his betters, or, like them, is led away by the force of example.

     ERRATA.

     In Chapter I, page 223, Contents, dele hi, and for Penn,
     read pun. The Man in the Cloak, noble Anecdote of, instead
     of the Fox* hunting Parson,--Printer.

TRAVELLER'S HALL.

~249~~

     Sketches in the Commercial Room at the Bell Inn,
     Cheltenltam--The Traveller's Ordinary--Trade Puns--Bolton
     Trotters and Trottees--Song, All the Booksellers--Curious
     Sporting Anecdote of a Commercial Man--Song, The Knight of
     the Saddle Bags--Private Theatricals in Public--Visit to
     the Oakland Cottages, a Night Scene.

An invitation to dine with the traveller to a London house in the paper and print line, yclept
booksellers, introduced the English Spy and his friend, the artist, to the scene here presented
(see plate).

Reader, if you wish to make a figure among the Chelts and be thought any thing of, you will,
of course, domicile at the Plough; but if your object is a knowledge of life, social conversation,
a great variety of character, and a never-failing fund of mirth and anecdote, join the gentleman
travellers who congregate at the Bell or the Fleece, where you will meet with merry fellows,
choice viands, good wine, excellent beds, and a pretty chambermaid into the bargain. Your commercial
man is often a fellow of infinite jest, a travelling vocabulary of provincial knowledge, and
a faithful narrator of the passing events of the time. Who can speak of the increasing prosperity,
or calculate upon the falling interests of a town, so well as your flying man of business 1
The moment he enters a new place he expects the landlord to be ready, cap in hand, to welcome
him; he first sees his horse into a stall, and lectures the ostler upon the art of rubbing
him down--orders boots to ~250~~bring in his travelling bags or his driving box, and bids the
waiter send the chambermaid to show him his bed-room--grumbles that it is too high up, has
no chimney in the apartment, or is situate over the kitchen or the tap-room--swears a tremendous
oath that he will order his baggage to be taken to the next house, and frightens the poor girl
into the giving him one of the best bed-apartments, usually reserved for the coffee-room company.
Returning below, he abuses the waiter for not giving him his letters, that have been waiting
his arrival a week, before he went up stairs--directs boots to be ready to make the circuit
of the town with him after dinner, carrying his pattern-books, perhaps half a hundred-weight
of Birmingham wares, brass articles, or patterns of coffin furniture; and having thus succeeded
in putting the whole house into confusion, only to let them know that the Brummagem gentleman
has arrived on his annual visit to the Chelts, with a new stock of every thing astonishing
in the brass line, he places himself down at a side table, to answer to his principals for
being some days later on his march than they had concluded--remits a good sum in bills and
acceptances, and adds thereunto a sheet of orders, that will suffice to keep the firm in good
temper for a week to come: sometimes, indeed, the postscript contains a hint of an expected
"whereas," or strong suspicions of an act of insolvency, but always couched in the most consolatory
terms, hoping the dividend will turn out to be better than present circumstances might lead
them to expect. In his visits to his customers he is the most courteous, obliging fellow imaginable;
there is no trouble he thinks too much if he is likely to obtain his last account and a fresh
order; then, too, his generosity is unbounded: he invites the tradesman to take wine with him
at his inn, inquires kindly after all the family, hopes business is thriving, makes an offer
of ~251~~doing any thing for him along the road, and bows himself and his pattern-cards out
of the shop, with as much humility and apparent sense of obligation as the most expert courtier
could put on when his sovereign deigns to confer upon him some special mark of his royal favour.
It is at his inn alone that his independence breaks forth, and here he often assumes as much
consequence as if he was the head of the firm he represents, and always carried about him a
plum at least in his breeches pocket. This is a general character, and one, too, formed upon
no slight knowledge of commercial men; but with all this, the man of the world will admire
them and seek their company; first, that his accommodations are generally better, and the charges
not subject to the caprice of the landlord; and, secondly, for the sake of society; for what
on earth can be more horrible than to be shut up in a lone room, a stranger in a provincial
town, to eat, drink, and pass the cheerless hour, a prey to solitude and ennui?

But there is sometimes a little fastidiousness about these knights of the saddle-bag, in admitting
a stranger to hob and nob with them; to prevent a knowledge, therefore, of our pursuits, my
friend Bob was instructed, before entering the room, to sink the arts, and if any inquisitive
fellow should inquire what line he travelled in, to reply, in the print line; while your humble
servant, it was agreed, should represent some firm in the spring trade; and thus armed against
suspicion, we boldly marched into the commercial-room just as the assembled group of men of
business were sitting down to dinner, hung our hats upon a peg, drew our chairs, uninvited,
to the table, fully prepared to feel ourselves at home, and do ample justice to the "bagmen's
banquet."

The important preliminary point settled, of whom the duty of chairman devolved on, a situation,
as I understood, always filled in a commercial room by ~252~~the last gentleman traveller who
makes it his residence, we proceeded to business. The privilege of finding fault with the dinner,
which, by the by, was excellent, is always conceded to the ancients of the fraternity of traders;
these gentlemen who, having been half a century upon the road, remember all the previous proprietors
of the hotel to the fifteenth or twentieth generation removed, make a point of enumerating
their gracious qualities upon such occasions, to keep the living host and representative up
to the mark, as they phrase it. For instance--the old buck in the chair, who was a city tea
broker, found fault with the fish: "There vas nothing of that ere sort to be had good but at
Billingsgate, where all the best fish from all the vorld vas, as he contended, to be bought
cheaper as butcher's meat." The result of which remark induced the young wags at the table
to finish a very fine brill, without leaving him a taste, while he was abusing it. "This soup
is not like friend Birch's," said Mr. Obadiah Pure, a gentleman in the drug line; "it hath
a watery and unchristianlike taste with it." "Ay," replied a youngster at the bottom of the
table, with whom it appeared to be in request, "I quake for fear while I am eating it, only
I know there can be no drugs in it, or you would not find fault with a customer." "Thou art
one of the newly imported, friend," replied Mr. Pure, "and art yet like a young bear, with
all thy troubles to come." "True," said the wag, "thou may be right, friend; but I shall not
be found a bruin with thy materials for all that." This sally put down the drug merchant for
the rest of the dinner-time. "You had better take a little fish or soup before they are cold,"
said the chairman, to a bluff-looking beef-eater at his back, who was arranging his papers
and samples. "Sir, I never eat warm wittals, drink hot liquors, wear a great coat, or have
my bed warmed." "The natural heat of your ~253~~constitution, I suppose, excuses you," said
I, venturing upon a joke. "Sir, you had better heat your natural meal, while it is hot, without
attempting to heat other people's tempers," was the reply; to which Bob retorted, by saying,
"It was quite clear the gentleman was not mealy-mouthed." "This beef smells a little of Hounslow
Heath," said a jeweller's gentleman, on my right. "Why so, sir?" was inquired by one who knew
him. "Because it has hung rather too long to be sightly." "You should not have left out the
chains in that joke, Sam," said his friend; "they would have linked it well together, and sealed
the subject." "Who takes port?" inquired the chairman. "I must sherry directly after dinner,
gentlemen," said one. "What," retorted the company, "boxing the wine bin! committing treason,
by making a sovereign go farther than he is required by law. Fine him, Mr. Chairman." "Gentlemen,
it is not in my power; he is a bottle conjuror, I assure you, 'a good man and true;' he only
retires to bleed a patient, and will return instanter." "Happy to take a glass of wine with
you, sir." "What do you think of that port, sir?" "Excellent." "Ay, I knew you would say so;
the house of Barnaby Blackstrap, Brothers, and Company, of Upper Thames Street, have always
been famous for selling wines of the choicest vintage. Do me the honour, sir, of putting a
card of ours in your pocket: I sent this wine into this house in Jennings's time, for the grand
dinner, when the first stone of the new rooms over the way was laid, and John Kelly, the proprietor,
took the chair. You are lucky, sir, in meeting me here; they always pull out an odd bottle
from the family bin, marked A--1, when I visit them." "Yes, and some odd sort of wine at any
other time," grumbled out a queer-looking character at a side table opposite. "That's nothing
but spleen, Mr. Sable," said the knight of the ruby countenance: "you and I have met occasionally
at this house together now for three and twenty years; and although I never ~254~~come a journey
without taking an order from them, I thank heaven, I never knew you to receive one yet: many
a dead man have we seen in this room, but none of them requiring a coffin plate to tell their
age, and very few of them that were like to receive the benefit of resurrection." "I shall
book you inside, Mr. Blackstrap,'' replied Sable, "for joking on my articles of trade, which
is contrary to the established usage of a commercial room." "Do any thing you like but bury
me," said the bon vivant." Gentlemen, as chairman, it is my duty to put an end to all grave
subjects. Will you be kind enough to dissect that turkey?" "I don't see the bee's wing in this
port, Mr. Blackstrap, that you are bouncing about," said a London traveller to a timber-merchant.
"No, sir," said the humorist, "it is not to be seen until you are a deal higher in spirits;
the film of the wing is seldom discernible in such mahogany-coloured wine as this." "Sir, I
blush like rose wood at your impertinence." "Ay, sir, and you'll soon be as red as logwood,
or as black as ebony, if you will but do justice to the bottle," was the reply. "There is no
being cross-grained with you," said the timber-merchant. "Not unless you cut me," retorted
Blackstrap, "and you are not sap enough for that." "Gentlemen," continued the facetious wine-merchant,
"if we do not get a little fruit, I shall think we have not met with our dessert; and although
there may be some among us whose principals are worth a plum, there are very few of their representatives,
I suspect, who will offer any objections to my reasons." Thus pleasantly apostrophised, the
fruit made its appearance, and with it a fresh supply of the genuine Oporto, which our merry
companion, Blackstrap, called "his old particular." One of his stories, relative to a joke
played off upon the Bolton trotters, by his friend Sable, the travelling undertaker, is too
good to be lost. In Lancashire the custom of hoaxing is called ~255~~trotting, and in many
instances, particularly at Bolton, is still continued, and has frequently been played off upon
strangers with a ruinous success. Sable had, it would appear, taken up his quarters at a commercial
inn, and, as is usual with travellers, joined the tradesmen in the smoking room at night to
enjoy his pipe, and profit, perhaps, by introduction in the way of business. The pursuit of
the undertaker and dealer in coffin furniture was no sooner made generally known, than it was
unanimously agreed to trot him, by giving him various orders for articles in his line, which
none of the parties had any serious intention of paying for or receiving. With this view, one
ordered a splendid coffin for himself, and another one for his wife; a third gave instructions
for an engraved plate and gilt ornaments; and a fourth chose to order an elegant suite of silver
ornaments to decorate the last abode of frail mortality: in this way the company were much
amused with the apparent unsuspecting manner of Sable, who carefully noted down all their orders,
and pledged himself to execute them faithfully. The Bolton people did not fail to circulate
this good joke, as they then thought it, among their neighbours, and having given fictitious
names, expected to have had additional cause for exultation when the articles arrived; but
how great was their surprise and dismay, when in a short time every order came, directed properly
to the person who had given it! Coffins and coffin-plates, silk shrouds and velvet palls, and
all the expensive paraphernalia of the charnel-house were to be seen carried about from the
waggon-office in Bolton, to be delivered at the residences of the principal inhabitants. Many
refused to receive these mementoes of their terrestrial life, and others denied having ever
ordered the same. Sable, however, proved himself too fast a trotter for the Bolton people;
for having, by the assistance of the waiter, obtained the true description of his ~256~~customers
on the night of the joke, and finding they were most of them wealthy tradesmen, he very wisely
determined to humour the whim, and execute the orders given, and in due course of time insisted
upon payment for the same. Thus ended the story of the Bolton trotters, which our merry companion
concluded, by observing, that it put an end to sporting, in that way, for some time; and by
the chagrin it caused to many of the trottees, distanced them in this life, and sent them off
the course in a galloping consumption.{1} "There's honour for you," said Sable, "civilized a

     1 A Bolton definition.--When the Bolton Canal was first
     pro-posed, the Athenians (for that Bolton is the Athens of
     Lancashire no one can doubt) could not well understand how
     boats were to be raised above the level of the sea. A lock
     to them was as incom-prehensible as Locke on the Human
     Understanding. A celebrated member of a celebrated trotting
     club was amongst the number of those who could not
     comprehend the mystery. Unwilling to appear ignorant upon a
     question which formed the common topic of conversation, he
     applied to a scientific gentleman in the neighbourhood for
     an accurate description of a lock. It happened that the man
     of science had on one occasion been a trottee, and was
     glad to have an opportunity of retaliation. "A lock," said
     he, "is a quantity of sawdust congealed into boards, which,
     being let down into the water in a perpendicular slope-
     level, raises it to the declivity of the sea above!"--" Eh?"
     said the Athenian, "what dun yo' say?" The gentleman
     repeated his description, and the worthy Boltonian recorded
     every word in the tablet of his memory. Sometime afterwards
     he had the honour of dining with some worshipful brothers of
     the quorum, men as profoundly ignorant of the law as any of
     the unpaid magistracy need to be, but who, having seen
     canals, knew well enough what locks were. Our Athenian took
     an early opportunity of adverting to the proposed "cut," and
     introduced his newly-acquired learning in the following
     terms: "Ah! Measter Fletcher, it's a foine thing a lock;
     yo' know'n I loike to look into them theere things; a lock
     is a perpendicular slop level, which, being let into the
     sea, is revealed into boards, that raises it to the
     declivity of the sea above!"--As it is the province and
     privilege of the ignorant to laugh at a greater degree of
     ignorance than their own, it may be supposed that their
     worships enjoyed a hearty laugh at the expense of their
     Attic brother.

~257~~whole district of English barbarians by one action, and, what is more, they have never
ventured to trot with any one of our fraternity since."

The conversation now took a turn relative to the affairs of trade; and if any one had been
desirous of knowing the exact degree of solvency in which the whole population of the county
of Gloucester was held by these flying merchants and factors, they might easily have summed
up the estimate from the remarks of the company. They were, however, a jovial party; and my
friend Bob and myself had rarely found ourselves more pleasantly circumstanced, either as regarded
our social comforts, or the continued variety of new character with which the successive speakers
presented us. As the evening approached our numbers gradually diminished, some to pursue their
journeys, and others to facilitate the purposes of trade. The representative of the house of
Blackstrap and Co., his friend Sable, the timber merchant, our inviter the bookseller, and
the two interlopers, remained fixed as fate to the festive board, until the chairman, and scarce
any one of the company, could clearly define, divide, and arrange the exact arithmetical proportions
of the dinner bill. After a short cessation of hostilities, during which our commercial friends
despatched their London letters, and Bob and the English Spy, to escape the suspicion of not
having any definable pursuit, emigrated to the High Street; we returned to our quarters, and
found the whole party debating upon a proposition of the bon vivants, to have another bottle,
and make a night of it by going to the theatre at half price; a question that was immediately
carried, nemine contradicente. Mr. Margin, our esteemed companion, who represented the old
established house of Sherwood and Co., was known to sing a good stave, and what was still more
attractive, was himself a child of song--one of the inspired of the nine, who, at the Anacreontic
Club, held in Ivy Lane, would often amuse ~258~~the society with an original chant; "whose
fame," as Blackstrap expressed it, "had extended itself to the four corners of the island,
wherever the sporting works of Sherwood and Co., or the travelled histories of the Messrs.
Longmans, have found readers and admirers." "Gentlemen," said Mr. Margin, "my songs are all
of a local nature; whims written to amuse a meeting of the trade for a dinner at the Albion
or the London, when the booksellers congregate together to buy copyrights, or sell at a reduced
price the refuse of their stock. But, such as it is, you shall have it instanter."

          ALL THE BOOKSELLERS;

          A NEW SONG, BY A LONDON TRAVELLER.

          Tune--Family Pride--Irish air.

          First, Longmans are famous for travels,
          Will Sherwood for sporting and fun,
          Old Ridgway the science unravels
          How politic matters are done.

          The ponderous tomes of deep learning,
          The heavy, profound, and the flat,
          By Baldwin and Cradock's discerning,
          Are cheaper by half to come at.

          Baines deals out to methodist readers
          Cant, piously strung into rhyme;
          While Rivingtons, 'gainst the seceders,
          With church and king Hatchard will chime.

          John Murray's the lords' own anointed,
          I mean not indeed to blaspheme,
          But the peers have him solely appointed
          To sell what their highnesses scheme.

~259~~

          Colburn defies Day and Martin
          To beat him with " Real Japan;"
          If puffing will sell books, 'tis certain,
          He'll rival the bookselling clan.

          Catechisms for miss and for master,
          For ladies who're fond oft, romance,
          Sheriff Whittaker publishes faster
          Than booksellers' porters can dance.

          Operatives, mechanics, combiners,
          Knight and Lacey will publish for you;
          They'll tickle ye out of your shiners,
          By teaching the power o' the screw.

          An Architect looks out for Taylor,
          A General Egerton seeks;
          Tommy Tegg at the trade is a railer,
          But yet for a slice of it sneaks.

          Richardson furnishes India
          With all books from Europe she buys;
          Near St. Paul's, in Old Harris's window,
          The juveniles look for a prize.

          Cadell is Scotch Ebony's factor,
          Collecting the news for Blackwood;
          John Miller 's the man for an actor,
          America 's done him some good.

          The Newmans of fam'd Leadenhall
          In very old novels abound;
          While Kelly, respected by all,
          As Sheriff of London is found.

          Will Simpkin supplieth the trade
          From his office in Stationers' Court;
          And Stockdale too much cash has made
          By publishing Harriette 's report.

~260~~THE ENGLISH SPY

          Antiquarians seek Arch of Cornhill;
          Joe Butterworth furnishes law;
          And Major his pockets will fill
          By giving to Walton éclat.

          Where, with old Parson Ambrose, the legs
          Once in Gothic Hall pigeons could fleece,
          There, Hurst and Co. now hang on pegs
          The fine arts of Rome and of Greece.

          John Ebers with Opera dancers
          Is too much engaged for to look
          How the bookselling business answers,
          And publishes only "Ude's Cook."

          Hookham and Carpenter both are
          As cautious as caution can be;
          While Andrews, nor Chapple, a sloth are
          In trade, both as lib'ral as free.

          Billy Sams is a loyal believer,
          And publishes prints by the score;
          But his likeness, I will not deceive her,
          Of Chester is not con amore.

          If the world you are ganging to see,
          Its manners and customs to note,
          In the Strand, you must call upon Leigh,
          Where you'll find a directory wrote.

          Cincinnatus like, guiding the plough,
          On Harding each farmer still looks;
          Clerc Smith is the man for a bow,
          And his shop is as famous for books.

          Facetiæ collectors, give ear,
          Who with Mack letter spirits would deal;
          If rich in old lore you'd appear,
          Pay a visit to Priestley and Weale.

~261~~

          There's Ogle, and Westley, and Black,
          With Mawman, and Kirby, and Cole,
          And Souter, and Wilson--alack!
          I cannot distinguish the whole.

          For Robins, and Hunter, and Poole,
          And Evans, and Scholey, and Co.
          Would fill out my verse beyond rule,
          And my Pegasus halts in the Bow.

          The radicals all are done up;
          Sedition is gone to the dogs;
          And Benbow and Cobbett may sup
          With their worthy relations the Hogs.

          So here I will wind up my list
          With Underwood, Callow, and Highley;
          Who bring to the medicals grist,
          By books on diseases wrote dryly.

          Just one word at parting I crave--
          If Italian, French, German, or Dutch,
          To bother your noddle you'd have,
          Send to Berthoud, or Treuttel and Wurtz,

          Or Zotti, or Dulau, or Bohn,
          But they're all very good in their way;
          Bossange, Bothe, Boosey and Son,
          All expect Monsieur Jean Bull to pay.

"A right merrie conceit it is," said Blackstrap, "and an excellent memoranda of the eminent
book-sellers of the present time." "Ay, sir," continued the veteran; "all our old ballads had
the merit of being useful, as well as amusing. There was 'Chevy Chase, and 'King John and his
Barons,' and 'Merry Sherwood,' all of them exquisite chants; conveying information to the mind,
and relating some grand historical fact, while they charmed the ear. But ~262~~your modern
kickshaws are all about 'No, my love, no,' or 'Sigh no more, lady,' or some such silly stuff
that nobody cares to learn the words of, or can understand if they did. I remember composing
a ballad in this town myself, some few years since, on a very strange adventure that happened
to one of our commercial brethren. He had bought an old hunter at Bristol to finish his journey
homeward with, on account of his former horse proving lame, and just as he was entering Cheltenham
by the turnpike-gate at the end of the town, the whole of the Berkeley Hunt were turning out
for a day's run, and having found, shot across the road in full cry. Away went the dogs, and
away went the huntsmen, and plague of any other way would the old hunter go: so, despite of
the two hundred weight of perfumery samples contained in his saddle-bags, away went Delcroix's
deputy over hedge and ditch, and straight forward for a steeple chase up the Cleigh Hills;
but in coming down rather briskly, the courage of the old horse gave way, and down he came
as groggy before as a Chelsea pensioner, smashing all the appendages of trade, and spilling
their contents upon the ground, besides raising such an odoriferous effluvia on the field,
that every one present smelt the joke.--But you shall have the song."

          THE KNIGHT OF THE SADDLE-BAGS;

          A TRUE RELATION   OF   A   TRAVELLER'S
          ADVENTURE  AT CHELTENHAM.

          Tune--The Priest of Kajaga.

          A knight of the saddle-bags, jolly and gay,
          Rode near to blithe Cheltenham's town;
          His coat was a drab, and his wig iron-gray,
          And the hue of his nag was a brown.

~263~~

          From Bristol, through Glo'ster, the merry man came;
          And jogging along in a trot,
          On the road happ'd to pass him, in pursuit of game,
          Of Berkeley's huntsmen a lot.

          Tally-ho! tally-ho! from each voice did resound;
          Hark forward! now cheer'd the loud pack;
          Sir knight found his horse spring along like a hound,'
          For the devil could not hold him back.

          Away went sly Reynard, away went sir knight,
          With the saddle-bags beating the side
          Of his horse, as he gallop'd among them in fright;
          'Twas in vain that the hunt did deride.

          Now up the Cleigh Hills, and adown the steep vale,
          Crack, crack, went the girths of his saddle;
          Sir knight was dismounted, O piteous tale!
          In wasjies the fishes might paddle.

          As prostrate he lay, an old hound that way bent
          Gave tongue as he pass'd him along;
          Which attracted the pack, who  thus drawn by the scent,
          Would have very soon ended his song.

          For O! it was strange, but, though strange, it was true!
          With perfumery samples, his bags
          With essences, musks, and rich odours a few,
          He had joined peradventure the nag's.

          The field took the joke in good-humour and jest;
          Sir knight was invited to dine
          At the Plough the same day, where a fine haunch was dress'd,
          And Naylor gave excellent wine.

          From that time, 'raong the Chelts, has a knight of the bag
          Been look'd on as a man of spirit;
          For who but a knight could have hunted a nag
          So laden, and come off with merit?

~264~~A visit from two of the commercial gentlemen of the Fleece gave Blackstrap another opportunity
of showing off, which he did not fail to avail himself of in no very measured paces, by ridiculing
the rival house, and extending his remarks to the taste of the frequenters. To which one of
them replied, "Mine host of the fleece is no 'wolf in sheep's clothing,' but a right careful
good shepherd, who provides well for his flock; and although the fleece hangs over his door,
it is not symbolical of any fleecing practices within." "Ay," said the other, defending his
hotel; "then, sir, we live like farmers at a harvest-home, and sleep on beds of down beneath
coverings of lamb's wool; and our attendant nymphs of the chamber are as beautiful and lively
as Arcadian shepherdesses, and chaste as the goddess Diana." "Very good," retorted Blackstrap;
"but you know, gentlemen, that the beaux of this house must be better off for the belle. We
will allow you of the Fleece your rustic enjoyments, seeing that you are country gentlemen,
for your hotel is certainly out of the town." A good-natured sally that quickly restored harmony,
and called forth another song from the muse of Blackstrap.

          HEALTH, COMPETENCE, AND GOOD-HUMOUR.

          Let titles and fame on ambition be shed,
          Or history's page of great heroes relate;
          The motto I'd choose to encircle my head
          Is competence, health, and good-humour elate.

~265~~

          The chaplet of virtue, by friendship entwined,
          Sheds a lustre that rarely encircles the great;
          While health and good-humour eternally find
          A competence smiling on every state.

          No luxuries seeking my board to encumber,
          Contented receiving what Providence sends;
          Age brightens with pleasure, while virtue may number
          Competence, health, and good-humour as friends.

          Then, neighbours, let's smile at old Chronos and care;
          Still shielded with honour, we're fearless of fate:
          With the sports of the field and the joys of the fair,
          We've competence, health, and good-humour elate.

At the conclusion of this fresh specimen of our chairman's original talent, it was proposed
we should adjourn to the theatre, where certain fashionable amateurs were amusing themselves
at the expense of the public. "Sir, I dislike these half and half vagabonds," said Blackstrap,
with one of his original gestures, "who play with an author before the public, that they may
the more easily play with an actress in private. Yon coxcomb, for instance, who buffoons Brutus,
with his brothers, are indeed capital brutes by nature, but as deficient of the art histrionic
as any biped animals well can be. I remember a very clever artist exhibiting a picture of the
colonel and his mother's son, Augustus, with a Captain Austin, in the exhibition of the Royal
Academy for the year 1823, in the characters of Brutus, Marc Antony, and Julius Cæsar, which
caused more fun than anything else in the collection, and produced more puns among the cognoscenti
than any previous work of art ever gave rise to. The Romans were such rum ones--Brutus was
a black down-looking biped, with gray whiskers, and a growl upon his lip; Marc Antony, without
the remotest mark of the ancient hero about him; and ~266~~Cassius looked as if he had been
cashiered by the commander of some strolling company of itinerants for one, whose placid face
could neither move to woe, nor yield grimace; and yet they were all accounted excellent likenesses,
perfect originals, like Wombwell's bonassus, only not quite so natural."

During this rhapsody of Blackstrap's, Transit on the one side, and the English Spy on the other,
endeavoured to restrain the torrent of his satire by assuring him that the very persons he
was alluding to were the amateurs on the stage before him; and that certain critical faces
behind him were paid like the painter, of whom he had previously spoken, to produce flattering
portraits in print, and might possibly make a satirical sketch of the bon vivant at the same
time; an admonition that had not the slightest effect in abridging his strictures upon amateur
actors. But as the English Spy intends to finish his sketches on this subject, in a visit to
the national theatres, he has until then treasured up in his mind's stores the excellent and
apposite, though somewhat racy anecdotes, with which the comical commercial critic illustrated
his discourse.

The "liquor in, the wit's out," saith the ancient proverb; and, although my "Spirit in the
Clouds" had already hinted at the dangerous consequences likely to result from a visit to the
"Oakland Cottages," yet such was the flexibility of my friend Transit's ethics, his penchant
for a spree, and the volatile nature of his disposition, when the ripe Falerian set the red
current mantling in his veins, that not all my philosophy, nor the sage monitions of Blackstrap,
nor thought, nor care, nor friendly intercession could withhold the artist from making a pilgrimage
to the altar of love. For be it known to the amorous beau, these things are not permitted to
pollute the sanctity of the sainted Chelts; but in a snug convent, situate a full mile and
a half from Cheltenham, at the extremity ~267~~of a lane where four roads meet, and under the
Cleigh Hills, the lady abbess and the fair sisters of Cytherea perform their midnight mysteries,
secure from magisterial interference, or the rude hand of any pious parochial poacher. Start
not, gentle reader; I shall not draw aside the curtain of delicacy, or expose "the secrets
of the prison-house:" it is enough for me to note these scenes in half tints, and leave the
broad effects of light and shadow to the pencils of those who are amorously inclined and well-practised
in giving the finishing------touch.

But to return to my friend Transit. Bright Luna tipt with silvery hue the surrounding clouds,
and o'er the face of nature spread her mystic light; the blue concave of high heaven was illumined
by a countless host of starry meteors, and the soft note of Philomel from the grove came upon
the soul-delighted ear like the sweet breathings of the Eolian harp, or the celestial cadences
of that heart-subduing cherub, Stephens; when we set out on our romantic excursion. Reader,
you may well start at the introduction of the plural number; but say, what man could abandon
his friend to such a dangerous enterprise? or what moralists refuse his services where there
was such a probability of there being so much need for them? But we are poor frail mortals;
so a truce with apology, or prithee accept one in the language of Moore:

         "Dear creatures! we can't live without them,
         They're all that is sweet and seducing to man;
         Looking, sighing, about and about them,
         We dote on them, die for them, do all we can."

To be brief: we found excellent accommodation, and spent the night pleasantly, free from the
sin of single blessedness. Many a choice anecdote did the Paphian divinities furnish us with
of the gay well-known among the Chelts; stories that will be told again and again over the
friendly bottle, but must not be recorded ~268~~here. Whether Transit, waking early from his
slumbers, was paying his devotions to Venus or the water-bottle, I know not; but I was awoke
by him about eight in the morning, and heard the loud echo of the huntsman's hallo in my ear,
summoning me to rise and away, for the sons of Nimrod had beset the house; information which
I found, upon looking through the window, was alarmingly true, but which did not appear either
to surprise or affright the fair occupants of the cottages, who observed, it was only some
of the "Berkeley Hunt going out," (See Plate), who, if they did not find any where else, generally
came looking after a brush in that neighbourhood.

"Then the best thing we can do," said Transit, "is to brush off, before they brush up stairs
and discover a couple of poachers among their game." This, however, the ladies would by no
means admit, and the huntsmen quickly riding away, we took our chocolate with the lady abbess
and her nuns, made all matters perfectly pleasant, saluted the fair at parting, and bade adieu
to the Oakland Cottages.

Upon our return to our inn, we received a good-humoured lecture from Blackstrap, who was just,
as he phrased it, on the wing for Bristol and Bath, "where" said he, "if you will meet me at
old Matthew Temple's, the Castle Inn, I will engage to give you a hearty welcome, and another
bottle of the old particular;" a proposition that was immediately agreed to, as the route we
had previously determined upon. One circumstance had, during our sojourn in the west, much
annoyed my friend Transit and myself; we had intended to have been present at the Doncaster
race meeting for 1825, and have booked both the betting men and their betters. Certainly a
better bit of sport could never have been anticipated, but we were neither of us endowed with
ubiquity, and were therefore compelled to cry content in the west when our hearts and inclinations
were in the ~269~~north. "If now your 'Spirit in the Clouds,' your merry unknown, he that sometimes
shoots off his witty arrows at the same target with ourselves, should archly suspect that old
Tom Whipcord was not upon the turf, I would venture a cool hundred against the field, that
we should have a report from him, 'ready cut and dried,' and quite as full of fun and whim
as if you had been present yourself, Master Bernard, aided and assisted by our ally, Tom Whipcord
of Oxford." "Heaven forgive you, Blackmantle, for the sins you have laid upon that old man's
back! You are not content with working him hard in the 'Annals' every month, but you must make
him mount the box of some of the short stages, and drive over the rough roads of the metropolis,
where he is in danger of having his wheel locked, or meeting with a regular upset at every
turn." Though Bob has given sufficient proofs of his spirit in danger, I certainly never suspected
him to be possessed of the spirit of divination, and yet his prophetic address had scarcely
concluded before Boots announced a parcel for Bernard Blackmantle, Esq. forwarded from London,
per favour of Mr. Williams. And, Heaven preserve me from the charge of imposing upon my reader's
credulity! but, as I live, it was his very hand--another sketch by my attendant sprite, "the
Spirit in the Clouds," and to the very tune of Transit's anticipations, and my wishes.

A FAMILIAR EPISTLE TO BERNARD BLACKMANTLE, ESQ.,

HUMOROUS DESCRIPTION OF DONCASTER

RACES, THE GREAT ST. LEGER, HORSES,

AND CHARACTERS, IN 1825.

          Prospero. Why, that's my spirit!
          Shakspeare--Tempest.

          "Good morrow to my worthy masters; and a merry Christmas
          to you all!"--The Bellman.

          "Mendiei, mimi, balatrones."--Hor.
          "Mimics, beggars, and characters of all sorts and sizes."
          --Free Translation.

My Good Mr. Spy,

Will you not exclaim, Mercy upon us! here is a text and title as long and as voluminous as
a modern publication, or the sermon of the fox-hunting parson, who, when compelled to

     1 See last number of the Spy, Part XXI. p. 273.

~271~~preach on a saint's day, mounted the pulpit in his sporting toggery, using his gown as
"a cloak of maliciousness?" But have patience, sweet Spy; be kindly-minded, dear Bernard: like
John of Magna Charta memory, "I have a thing to say;" and do now be a good attentive Hubert
to hear me out.

"Indeed, since you have inspirited, if not inspired me, by the 'immortal honour' of dubbing
me your 'associate,' I were wanting in common gratitude not to attempt, by the return of moon,
for I believe that luminary, like your numbers, comes out new every fourth week, to convey
to you the swellings-over of my gratitude for the kind and fine things you have been pleased
to cheer me with; although even yet, though the time will come, I can neither withdraw my vizor,
nor disclose my 'family cognomen.'

It was true, and joy it was 'twas true, that we were at rowings, sailings, feastings, and dancings
together, but how comes it we were not at the great racings together? that neither you, nor
your ministers, they who,

          "----correspondent to command,
          Perform thy spiriting gently----"

were at the grand muster of the North, the Doncaster meeting? Bernard, I tell thee all the
world was there; from royalty and loyalty down to the dustman and democracy. Then such "sayings
and doings," a million of hooks could hardly have had an eye to all. You have read of the confusion
of tongues, of "Babel broke loose," of the crusaders' contributory encampment peopled by dozens
of nations; you have seen the inside of a patent theatre on the first night of a Christmas
pantomime, or mingled in an Opera-house masquerade; have listened to a Covent-garden squabble,
a Billingsgate commotion, or a watch-house row; but in the whole course of your life, varied
as ~272~~it has been, active as it has proved, you never have, never could have experienced
any thing at all to eclipse or even to equal the "hey, fellow, well met" congregatory musters,
and the "beautiful and elegant confusions" of Doncaster town in the race week of (September)
eighteen hundred and twenty-five!

I am not, however, about to inflict upon you a "list of the horses," nor "the names, weights,
and colours of the riders;" but I cannot help thinking that the English Spy will not have quite
completed his admirable gallery of portraits, and his unique museum of curiosities for the
benefit and delight of posterity, if he omit placing in their already splendid precincts two
or three heads and sketches, which the genius of notoriety is ready to contribute as her own,
and which to pass over would be as grievous to miss, as Mrs. Waylett's breeches,{2} characters
at the Haymarket Theatre, or a solution of Euclid by one of Dr. Birkbeck's "operatives."

Allow me, then, who am not indeed "without vanity," once more to "stand by your side," or rather
for you, and to attempt, albeit I have not your magic pencil, another taste of my quality,
by dashing off con amore the lions of the North.

     2 There frequently occur circumstances in a younker's life
     which lie never, in all his after career, forgets. I
     remember a very worthy and a very handsome old gentlewoman,
     the wife of an eminent physician, once being exceedingly
     wroth, it was almost the only time I ever knew her seriously
     angry, because a nephew of hers asserted all women were,
     what in the vulgate is called "knock-knee'd," and almost
     threatened to prove the contrary. Had she lived in our days,
     the truth, almost on any evening on our stage, might be
     ascertained, and I fear not at all to the satisfaction of
     the defender of her sex's shape. Nature never intended women
     to wear the breeches, and the invention of petticoats was
     the triumph of art. Why will Eve's daughters publicly
     convince us they are not from top to toe perfect?

~273~~As, however, some that attend my sitting are quite as difficult to manage as the conspirators
of Prospero's isle, it may be as well if, like Ariel, I sing to them as I lay on the colours
of identification. Bear in mind still, that I am a "spirit in the clouds," and, therefore,
there can be nothing of "michin malachi" in my melody.

          I love a race-course, that I do;
          But then, good folks, it is as true,
          Only don't blab, I tell it you,
          I can't love all its people;

          For though I'm somewhat down and fly,
          Is slang gone out, sweet Mister Spy?
          Of trade with them I am as shy
          As jumping from a steeple.

          Yet what with fashion's feather'd band,
          And pawing steeds, and crowded stand;
          Its sights are really very grand,
          Which to deny were sin.

          But then, though fast the horses run,
          Few gain by "clone," and "done," and "done,"
          For what a damper to the fun!
          Those "only laugh who win."

          Oh! what a mixture must we greet
          In rooms, at inns, on turf, in street;
          Be "hand and glove" with all we meet,
          Old files, and new-bronzed faces!

          With marquis, lord, and duke, and squire,
          We now keep up the betting fire;
          And then the guard of the "Highflyer"
          We book at Northern races.{3}

     3 A song would be no song at all without notes; I must
     there-fore try a few. I can assure you they are not mere
     humming ones. Allons--"all is not gold that glitters,"
     neither is it all "prunella" that blows a horn upon the
     stern of a coach. The "York Highflyer" I really am not to go
     down gratis "next jour-ney" for puffing it is a good coach,
     and the guard is a good guard, and he ventured a "good bit"
     of money on the Léger, and was "floored," for "Cleveland"
     was a slow one. However, it didn't balk his three days'
     holiday, nor spoil his new coat, nor blight his nosegay. I
     saw him after his defeat, looking as rosy as Pistol, and
     heard him making as much noise as one; "nor malice domestic
     nor foreign levy" could hurt him.

~274~~

          Look in that room,{4} judge for yourself;
          See what a struggle's made for wealth,
          What crushings, bawlings for the pelf,
          'Twixt high heads and low legs.

          That is Lord K----,{5} and that Lord D-----,{5}
          That's Gully{6}; yon's fishmonger C;{5}
          A octree-man that; that, Harry Lee,{5}
          Who stirr'd Mendoza's pegs.

          Or walk up stairs; behold yon board,
          Rich with its thrown-down paper hoard,
          But oh! abused, beset, adored
          By wine-warm'd folks o' nights.

          The playing cog, the paying peer,
          Pigeon and Greek alike are here;
          And some are clear'd, and others clear;
          Ask Bayner,{6} and such wights.

     4  The new subscription room; where down stairs more than
     the "confusion of tongues" prevails, and above a man's
     character, if in-sured, would go under the column of "trebly
     hazardous." It is really a pity that hone-racing should
     appear so close a neighbour to gambling as it does at
     Doncastor.

     5  My men of letters are not merely alphabet men, but bona
     fide characters of consideration upon the turf. I confess
     Lord Kennedy is a bit of a favourite of mine, ever since I
     saw him so good-natured at the pigeon-shooting matches at
     Battersea; and greatly rejoiced was I to find him unplucked
     at the more desperate wagerings of the North. He really is
     clever in the main, and no subject for St. Luke's, though he
     depends much on a bedlamite. Gulley, Crock-ford, and Bland,
     need no character; and every body knows Harry Lee fought a
     pluck battle with old Dan. But it is "box Harry" with
     fighters now.

     6  Poor Rayner of C. G. T.--hundreds at one fell swoop! all
     his morning's winnings gone in one evening's misfortune. Let
     him think on't when next he plays "the School of Reform."

~275~~

          Nay, thick as plagues of Egypt swarm
          These emblems of the devil's charm,
          When the fall'n angel works a harm
          To Eve's demented brood;

          Worse than of famish'd shark the maw,
          Worse than snake's tooth, or tiger's claw,
          The gambler's fish{7} spits from its maw
          Hell's poison-filled food!

          But, halt! Who're they so deep in port,
          Who jostle thus the dons of sport,
          With all th' assumed airs of court,
          From which indeed they are?

          But not from court of Carlton,
          Nor James's Court, nor any one;
          But where "the fancy" used to run
          To see the creatures spar.

          The one's a diamond, that you see,
          But yet a black one I agree,
          And in the way of chancery
          A smart Ward in his time;

          The other he's from Vinsor down,
          And though a great gun in that town,
          Has lately been quite basted brown,
          And gone off--out of time.{8}

     7  The spotted ball now, worse in its woe-causing than the
     apple of Ida, is disgorged from a splendidly gilded fish.
     What a pity it is that the eternal vociforators of "red
     wins, black loses," et vice versa, could not be turned into
     Jonahs, and their odd fish into a whale, and let all be cast
     into the troubled waters (without a three days' redemption)
     they brew for others!

     8  "There never were such times." X Xs, in the ring, and
     failures in the Fives Court, overcome us now without our
     special wonder; for boxers are become betters to extents
     that would make the fathers of the P.R. bless themselves and
     bolt. Cannon and Ward were, however, both on the right side,
     and the nods with which they honoured their old acquaintance
     were certainly improvements upon the style of the academy
     for manners in Saint Martin's Street.

~276~~

          Look, here's a bevy; who but they!
          Just come to make the poor Tykes pay
          The charge of post-horses and chay,
          That brought them to some tune;

          Lo! Piccadilly Goodered laughs,
          As when some novice, reeling, quaffs
          His gooseberry wine in tipsy draughts,
          At his so pure saloon.{9}

          Good gracious, too! (oh, what a trade
          Can oyster sales at night be made!)
          Here swallowing wine, like lemonade,
          Sits Mrs. H's man{10}!

          And by the Loves and Graces all,
          By Vestris' trunks, Maria's shawl,
          There trots the nun herself, so tall,
          A flirting of a fan,

          And blushing like the "red, red rose,"
          With paly eyes and a princely nose,
          And laced in Nora Crinas clothes,
          (Cool, like a cucumber,)

          With beaver black, with veil so green,
          And huntress boots 'neath skirt quite clean,
          She looks Diana's self--a quean,
          In habit trimm'd with fur.

          And Mr. Wigelsworth he flew,{11}
          And Miss and Mistress W.
          To bow and court'sy to the new
          Arrival at their Boy;

     9  "Lightly tread, 'tis hallow'd ground." I dare not go on;
     you have been before me, Bernard: (vide vol. i. p. 295, of
     Spy). But really it will be worth while for us to look in on
     Goodered some fine morning, say three, a.m., when he gets
     his print of Memnon home, to which, at Sheardowns, he was so
     liberal as to subscribe. He will discourse to you of the
     round table!

     10  "If I stand here, I saw him."--Shakespeare, Hamlet.

     11 The host of the Black Boy at Doncastor, who really pro-
     vided race ordinaries in no ordinary way.

~277~~

          Though he was Black, yet she was fair;
          And sure I am that nothing there
          With that clear nymph could aught compare,12
          Or more glad eyes employ.

But where there is, after all, but little reason in many of the scenes witnessed at the period
I quote, why should I continue to rhyme about them? Let it therefore suffice, that with much
of spirit there was some folly, with a good deal of splendour an alloy of dross, and, with
real consequence, a good deal of that which was assumed. Like a showy drama, the players (there
was a goodly company in the north), dresses (they were of all colours of the rainbow), and
decorations (also various and admirable), during the time of performance, were of the first
order; but that over, and the green and dressing rooms displayed many a hero sunk into native
insignificance, and the trappings of Tamerlane degenerated to the hungry coat of a Jeremy Diddler
(and there were plenty of "Raising the Wind" professors at Doncaster), or the materiel of the
king and queen of Denmark to the dilapidated wardrobe of Mr. and Mrs. Sylvester Daggerwood.

Mais apropos de le drame, Monsieur L'Espion, what is your report of
our theatres? Have you seen the monkeys? In brief,
          Her room would be a rarity most beloved,
          If all could so become it."

          Shakespeare, a little altered.

I would just say here, that if any disapprove of my picture of the lady,
they may take Bernard Blackmantle's ~278~~magnifique, et admirable?
Do they not awake in you visions of rapturous delight, as you contrast
their antics and mimicry, their grotesque and beautiful grimaces, their
cunning leers, with the eye of Garrick, the stately action of Kemble,
the sarcasm of Cooke, the study of Henderson, the commanding port of
Siddons, the fire of Kean, the voice of Young, the tones of O'Neill?
When you see them, as the traveller Dampier has it, "dancing from
tree to tree over your head," and hear them "chattering, and making a
terrible noise," do you not think of Lord Chesterfield, and exclaim, "A
well-governed stage is an ornament to society, an encouragement to wit
and learning, and a school of virtue, modesty, and good manners?"
          For this great Jocko's self first leap'd the stage;
          For this was puffd in ev'ry well-bribed page,
          From evening "Courier" down to Sunday "Age!"{13}

     13 It is suspicious, to say the least of it, this excess of
     praise to an old representation; for, after all, punch, the
     original punch, punch in the street, though not so loud, is
     ten times more to "our manner born," and much more original.
     That the beings who banish legitimate performers should
     puff, till we grow sick, a "thing of shreds and patches!"
     But "the world is still deceived by ornament."

~279~~But Charles Kemble pays well on occasions, and gold would make "Hyperion" of a "satyr."
Seriously, Mr. Blackmantle, the town is overrun with monkeys; they are as busy, and as importunate,
as Lady Montague's boys on May day, or the Guy Fawkes representatives on the fifth of November.
They are "here, there, and every where," and the baboon monopolists of Exeter 'Change and the
Tower are ruined by the importation:--a free trade in the article with the patentees of our
classic theatres, as the purchasing-merchants, has done the business for Mr. Cross and the
beef-eaters. Like the Athenian audience, the "thinking people" of England are more pleased
with the mimic than the real voice of nature; and the four-footed puggys of the Brazils, like
the true pig of the Grecian, are cast in the shade by their reasoning imitator!

     14 One Dr. Samuel Johnson has something like this, but then
     his lines were in praise of a "poor player," of a man who
     wasted much paper in writing dramas now thought nothing of.
     This is his doggrel.

~280~~But I must have done. Christmas will soon be here, and "I have a journey, sirs, shortly
to go" to be prepared for its delights, and to fit myself for its festivities; and yet I am
unwilling, acute Bernard, merry Echo, cheerful Eglantine, correct Transit, to "shake hands
and part," without tendering the coming season's congratulations; so if it like you, dear spies
o' the time, I will, like the swan, go off singing.

          Marching along with berried brow,
          And snow flakes on his "frosty pow,"
          See father Christmas makes his bow,
          And proffers jovial cheer;

          About him tripping to and fro,
          Picking the holly as they go,
          And kiss-allowing misletoe,
          His merry elves appear.

          Then broach the barrel, fill the bowl,
          And let us pledge the hearty soul,
          Though swift the waning minutes roll,
          And time will stay for none;

          Lads, we will have a gambo still,
          For though we've made the foolish feel,
          And shamed the sinner in his ill,
          Our withers are unwrung.

~281~~

          No poison in the cup have ye,
          In all your travell'd history,
          Pour'd for the hearty, good, and free;
          This will your book evince:

          So "here's the King!"fill, fill for him,
          Then for our Country, to the brim;
          With it, good souls, we'll sink or swim.
          Huzzah! 'tis gall'd jades wince!

          But now, adieu; o'er hill and plain
          I scud, ere we shall meet again;
          Meantime, all prosp'rous be your reign,
          And friends attend in crowds;

          Before your splendid course is o'er,
          And Blackmantle shall please no more,
          You'll know, though yet I'm doom'd to soar,
          Your Spirit in the Clouds.{15}"

          November, 1825.

Adieu, thou facetious sprite, and may the graybeard Time tread lightly on thy buoyant spirits!
Meet thee or not hereafter, thou shalt live in my remembrance a cherished name, long as memory
holds her influence o'er the eccentric mind of Bernard Blackmantle. Here, too, must Transit
and myself take a farewell of merry Cheltenham, ever on the wing for novelty: our sketches
have been brief, but full of genuine character; nor can they, as I hope, be considered in any
instance as violating our established rule--of being true to nature, without offending the
ear of chastity, or exciting aught but

     15 "A. word to the wise," &c. Get honest "Tom Whipcord" to
     take you by his hand on Valentine's night to the "noctes"
     muster of the Sporting Annals gents. You will know me by a
     brace of "bleeding hearts" in my plaited neckerchief, and a
     blue bunch of ribbons in my sinister side, as big as the
     Herald newspaper, the gifts of my lady-love.

~282~~the approving smile of the lovers of mirth, and the patrons of life's merriments. We
had intended to have drawn aside the curtain of the theatre and the castle, and have shown
forth to the gaze of the public the unhallowed mysteries which are sometimes performed there;
but reflection whispered, that morality might find more cause to blush at the recital than
her attendants would benefit by the exposure; and is is lamentably true, that some persons
would cheerfully forfeit all claim to respectability of character for the honour of appearing
in print, depicted in their true colours, as systematic and profligate seducers. To disappoint
this infamous ambition, more than from any fear of the threatened consequences, we have left
the sable colonel and his dark satellites to grope on through the murky ways of waywardness
and intrigue, without staining our pages with a full relation of their heartless conduct, since
to have revived the now forgotten tales might have given additional pain to some beauteous
victims whose fair names have dropped into Lethe's waters, like early spring flowers nipped
by the lingering hand of slow-paced winter; or, in other instances, have disturbed the repose
of an unsuspecting husband, or have stung the aged heart of a doting parent--evils we could
not have avoided, had we determined upon rehearsing the love scenes and intrigues of certain
well-known Cheltenham amateurs.

          Adieu, merry Chelts! we're for quitting our quarters;
          Adieu to the chase, to thy walks and thy waters,
          To thy hunt, ball, and theatre, and card tables too,
          And to all thy gay fair ones, a long, long adieu!

          Blackmantle and Transit, the Spy and his friend,
          Through Gloucester and Bristol, to Bath onward bend.
          To show how amused they have been in your streets,
          They give you, at parting, this man of sweetmeats;

          A character, famous as Mackey, the dandy,
          The London importer of horehound and candy;
          The cheapest of doctors, whose nostrums dispense
          A cure for all ills that affect taste or sense,

          I doubt not quite as good as one half your M.D.'s,
          Though sweet is the physic and simple the fees;
          This, at least, you'll admit, as we dart from your view
          That our vignette presents you with a sweet adieu!

A VISIT TO GLOUCESTER AND BERKELEY.

     Sketches on the Mood--Singular Introduction to an old
     Friend--A Tithe Cause tried--A strange Assemblage of
     Witnesses--Traits of Character--Effects of the Farmers'
     Success--An odd Cavalcade--Rejoicings at Berkeley.

~284~~The road from Cheltenham to Gloucester affords a good view of the Cotswold and Stroudwater
Hills, diversified by the vales of Evesham, Gloucester, and Berkeley, bounded on the east by
the Severn, and presenting in many situations a very rich picturesque appearance. We are not
of the dull race who dwell on musty records and ancient inscriptions, or travel through a county
to collect the precise date when the first stone of some now moss-crowned ruin was embedded
in the antique clay beneath. Let the dead sleep in peace; we are not anti-queer-ones enough
to wish the mouldering reliques of our ancestors arrayed in chronological order before our
eyes, nor do we mean to risk our merry lives in exploring the monastic piles and subterranean
vaults and passages of other times. No; our office is with the living, with the enriched Gothic
of modern courts, and the finished Corinthian capitals of society, illustrating, as we proceed,
with choice specimens of the rustic and the grotesque; now laughing over our wine with the
Tuscan bacchanal, or singing a soft tale of love in the ear of some chaste daughter of the
composite order; ~285~~trifling perhaps a little harmless badinage with a simple Ionic, or
cracking a college joke with a learned Doric; never troubling our heads, or those of our readers,
about the origin or derivation of these orders, whether they came from early Greece or more
accomplished Home; or be their progenitors of Saxon, Norman, Danish, or of Anglo-Saxon character,
we care not; 'tis ours to depict them as they at present appear, leaving to the profound topographers
and compilers of county histories all that relates to the black letter lore of long forgotten days.

Gloucester is proverbial for its dulness, and from the dirty appearance of the streets and
houses, was, by my friend Transit, denominated the black city; a designation he maintained
to be strictly correct, since it has a cathedral, a bishop, and a black choir of canonicals,
and was from earliest times the residence of a black brotherhood of monks, whose black deeds
are recorded in the black letter pages of English history; to which was added another confirmatory
circumstance, that upon our entrance it happened the assizes for the county had just commenced,
and the black gowns of Banco Regis, and of the law, were preparing to try the blacks of Gloucestershire,
out of which arose a black joke, that will long be remembered by the inhabitants of Berkeley,
and the tenantry of the sable colonel.

We had made our domicile at the Ham Inn, by the recommendation of our Cheltenham host, where
we met with excellent accommodations, and what, beside, we could never have anticipated to
have met with in such a place, one of the richest scenes that had yet presented itself in the
course of our eccentric tour.

The unusual bustle that prevailed in every department of the inn, together with a concatenation
of sounds now resembling singing and speaking, and the occasional scraping of some ill-toned
violins above our heads, induced us to make a few inquisitive ~286~~remarks to mine host of
the Ham, that quickly put us in possession of the following facts.

It appeared, that a suit respecting the right of the vicar of Berkeley to the great tithes
of that town had been long pending in the court of Chancery, in which the reverend was opposed
to his former friend, the colonel, the churchwardens of Berkeley, and the whole of the surrounding
tenantry. Now this cause was, by direction of the Lord Chancellor, to be tried at these assizes,
and, in consequence, the law agents had been most industrious in bringing together, by subpoena,
all the ancient authorities of the county, the aged, the blind, and the halt, to give evidence
against their worthy pastor; and as it is most conducive to success in law, the keeping witnesses
secure from tampering, and in good-humour with the cause, the legal advisers had prepared such
festive cheer at the Bam, for those of the popular interest, as would have done honour to the
colonel's banquet at the castle. Such was the information we obtained from our host, to whose
kind introduction of us to the lawyers we were afterwards indebted for a very pleasant evening's
amusement.

We were ushered into the room by one of the legal agents as two gentlemen from London, who,
being strangers in the place, were desirous of being permitted to spend their evening among
such a jovial society. The uproarious mirth, and rude welcome, with which this communication
was received by the company, added to the clouds of smoke which enveloped their chairman, prevented
our immediate recognition of him; but great and pleasant indeed was our surprise to find the
most noble, the very learned head of the table, to be no other than our old Eton con. little
Dick Gradus, to whose lot it had fallen to conduct this action, and defend the interests of
the agriculturalists against the mercenary encroachments of the church militant. This was indeed
no common cause; and the greatest difficulty ~287~~our friend Gradus had to encounter was the
restricting within due bounds of moderation the over-zealous feelings of his witnesses. It
was quite clear a parson's tithes, if left to the generosity of his parishioners, would produce
but a small modicum of his reverence's income. The jovial farmer chuckled with delight at the
prospect of being able to curtail the demands of his canonical adversary. "Measter Carrington,"
said he, "may be a very good zort of a preacher, but I knows he has no zort of business with
tithing my property; and if zo be as the gentleman judge will let me, gad zooks! but I will
prove my words, better than he did the old earl's marriage, when he made such a fool of himsel'
before the peers in parliament." "That's your zort, measter Tiller," resounded from all the
voices round the table. "Let the clergy zow for themselves, and grow for themselves, as the
varmers do; what a dickens should we work all the week for the good of their bodies, when they
only devote one hour in the whole seven days for the benefit of our zouls?" "That's right,
Measter Coppinger," said some one next to the speaker; "you are one hundred years of age, and
pray how many times have you heard the parson preach?" "I never zeed him in his pulpit in the
whole courze of my life; but then you know that were my fault, I might if I would; but I'ze
been a main close attendant upon the church for all that: during the old earl's lifetime, I
was a sort of deputy huntsman, and then the parson often followed me; and when I got too old
to ride, I was made assistant gamekeeper, and then I very often followed the parson; so you
zee I'ze a true churchman, every inch of me; only I don't like poaching, and when his reverence
wants me to help him sack his tithes, old Jack Coppinger will tell him to his head, he may
e'en carry the bag himself." "A toast from the chair! Let's hear the lawyer' zentiments on
this zubject," said another; with which request Gradus complied, by giving, "May he who ~288~~ploughs
and plants the soil reap all its fruits!" "Ay, Measter Gradus, that is as it should be," reiterated
a farmer on his right, "zo I'll give you, 'The varmers against the parsons,' and there's old
Tom Sykes yonder, the thatcher, he will give you a zong about the 'tithe pig and the tenth
child,' a main good stave, I do azzure you." A request which the old thatcher most readily
complied with, to the great delight of all present; for independent of his dialect, which was
of the true rich west-country character, there was considerable wit and humour in the song,
and an archness of manner in the performer, that greatly increased the good-humour of the society.
In this way the evening was spent very pleasantly; and as the cause was to come on the first
thing on the ensuing morning, Transit and myself determined to await the issue, anticipating
that, if our merry-hearted companions, the rustics, should be successful, there would be no
lack of merriment, and some exhibition of good sport both for the pen and pencil.

We had strayed after breakfast to view the cathedral, which is very well worthy the attention
of the curious, and certainly contains some very ancient relics of the great and the good of
earliest times. On our return, the deafening shouts of the multitude, who were congregated
outside the Sessions House, proclaimed a favourable verdict for the farmers, who, in the excess
of their joy at having beaten their reverend adversary, gave loose to the most unrestrained
expressions of exultation: a messenger was immediately despatched to Berkeley to convey, express,
the glad tidings; and the head farmers of the parish, with whom were the church-wardens, determined
to commemorate their victory by roasting a bullock whole on the brow of the hill which overlooked
their vicar's residence, and for the preparation of which festivity they also sent their instructions.
The next grand point was, how to ~289~~convey the witnesses, who were very numerous, to the
scene of action, a distance of eighteen miles. To have despatched them in post-chaises, could
they have found a sufficient number in Gloucester, was neither in accordance with economy,
nor with the wishes of the parties themselves, who were very anxious to have a grand procession,
and enjoy themselves as they went along in smoking, singing, drinking, and proclaiming their
triumph to their neighbours and friends. Mine hostess of the Ram, with every female in her
establishment, had been, from the moment the verdict was given to the departure of the group,
busily engaged in making large blue favours, of the colonel's colour, to decorate the hats
of the visitors, until Mr. Boots arrived with the dismaying intelligence, that not another
yard of riband, of the colour required, could be obtained in all the city of Gloucester. With
equal industry and perseverance the host himself had put in requisition every species of conveyance
that he could muster, which was calculated to suit the views of the parties, and form a grand
cavalcade; without much attention to the peculiar elegance of the vehicles, to be sure, but
with every arrangement for social comfort. It had been decided that my friend Transit and myself
should accompany Richard Gradus, Esq. the solicitor to the fortunate defendants, in a post
coach in front, preceded by four of mine host's best horses, with postillions decorated with
blue favours, and streamers flying from the four corners of the carriage; and now came the
marshalling of the procession to follow.

One of the colonel's hay vans had been supplied with seats, lengthwise, in which the first
division of farmers placed themselves, not, however, forgetting to take in a good supply of
ale and pipes with them; next in order was one of the old-fashioned double-bodied stages, which
had not been cleaned, or out of the coach-yard, for twenty years before, and both in the ~290~~inside
and on the roof of which the more humble rustics and farmers' labourers were accommodated:
this vehicle was drawn by four cart horses, of the roughest description; the rear of the whole
being brought up by a long black funeral hearse, with three horses, unicorn fashion, on the
roof of which the men sate sidewise, while the interior was, by Gradus's orders, well filled
with casks of the best Gloucester ale. About a dozen of the farmers, on horseback, rode by
the side of the vehicles; and in this order, with the accompaniment of a bugle in the hay van,
and a couple of blind fiddlers scraping on the centre of the roof of the hearse, did we sally
forth in most grotesque order, amid the joyous acclamations of the multitude, on our way to
Berkeley, every countenance portraying exultation and good-humour, and every where upon the
road meeting with a corresponding welcome. A more humorous or whimsical procession cannot well
be imagined, men, animals, and vehicles being perfectly unique. By the time we had reached
our destination, the potent effects of the Gloucester ale, added to the smoking and vociferous
expressions of joy that attended us throughout, had left very few of our rustic friends without
the visible and outward signs of their inward devotions to the jolly god. On our arrival near
to Berkeley, we were met by crowds of the joyous inhabitants, and proceeded onward to the spot
selected for the festive scene, where we found the bullock already roasting on the top of the
hill, and where also they had pitched a tent, and brought some small cannon, with which they
fired a feu de joie on our arrival, taking special care to point their artillery in the direction
of the vicar's residence. On the opposite side of the road was the church; and it is not a
little singular, that the steeple, belfry, and tower are completely detached from the body
of the building. The vicar, dreading the riotous joy of his parishioners upon ~291~~this occasion,
had locked up the church, and issued his mandate to the wardens to prevent a merry peal; but
these persons insisting that as the church was detached from the belfry, the vicar had no authority
over it, they directed the ringers to give them a triple bob major, which canonical music was
merrily repeated at intervals, to the great dismay of the parson, who, over and above the loss
he was likely to sustain in his future interests, had by this defect suffered under a legal
expenditure of some thousands of pounds. The colonel did not show, perhaps from prudential
motives of respect to his old friend, but his agents were well instructed in their duty, and
there was no lack of a plentiful supply of provision and ale for his tenantry to make right
merry with. Thus ended our trip to Berkeley, where, after taking a view of the castle on the
following morning, and surveying the delightful scenery with which that most ancient building
is surrounded, we bade adieu to our friend Gradus, and mounted the Cheltenham coach, as it
passed through, on our way to Bristol.

A DAY IN BRISTOL.

     A Glance at the Bristolians--Their Pursuits and
     Characteristics--The London Mail--A Walk to the Hot Wells
     and Clifton--Blackmantle and Transit start for the
     Territories of King Bladud.

~292~~The worthy Bristolians must not feel offended if we pass them by rather briefly; had
ours been a tour of business, connected with commercial pursuit instead of a search after whim
and character, we should no doubt have found materials enough to have filled a dozen chapters;
but such pursuits are foreign to the eccentric volumes of the English Spy, whose sole aim is
humour, localized, and embracing characteristic scenes. Such is the above sketch, which struck
Transit and myself, as we took a stroll down Bridge-street while our breakfast was preparing
at the White Hart; it was a bit of true life, and cannot fail to please: but, after all, Bristol
resembles London so closely, at least the ~293~~eastern part of the metropolis, that although
we saw much that would have been worthy the attention of the antiquary and the curious in their
several churches and museums, or might, with great advantage, have been transferred to the
note book of the topographer, yet we met with none of that peculiar whimsical character that
distinguishes the more fashionable places of resort. The sole object of the Bristolians is
trade, and every face you meet with has a ledger-like countenance, closely resembling the calculating
citizen of London, whose every thought is directed to the accumulation of wealth, by increased
sales of merchandize, or the overreaching his neighbour in taking the first advantage of the
market.

The arrival of the London mail, which comes in about ten o'clock in the morning, afforded Transit
another opportunity of picking up what little of character there was to be found. At Bristol
there is always a great anxiety to obtain the London news and price current; so much so, that
the leading merchants and others assemble in front of the Post-office, which also joins the
Exchange, to wait the arrival of the mail (see Plate), and receive the letters of advice which
are to regulate their concerns. It is but justice to add, there is no place in the kingdom
of the same distance to which the conveyance is quicker, and the facility of delivery more
promptly attended to. After breakfast we took a stroll round the docks, and then bent our steps
towards the heights, and along the delightful walk which leads to the Hot Wells and Clifton.

To attempt a just description of the magnificent and romantic scenery which surrounds Clifton,
as it is viewed from the Downs, would occupy more space than our limits will allow us to devote
to the beauties of landscape; and would, besides, interfere with an intention which Transit
and myself have in view at some future period of our lives, namely, the making a topographical
and characteristic tour through the United Kingdoms, which being divided into counties, ~294~~and
embracing not only the historical and the picturesque, will be enlivened by all the humorous
vagaries, eccentric characters, and peculiar sports of each, written in a colloquial style;
and embracing the lingual localisms, proverbs, and provincialisms of the inhabitants: thus
producing a humorous but most correct view of the present state of society and manners. The
materials for such a work have gradually presented themselves during the progress of the present
eccentric volumes; but, as our object here has been good-humoured satire joined to comic sketches
of existing persons and scenes, more in the way of anecdote than history, we hope to meet with
the same kind friends in a more extended work, among those who have journeyed onwards with
us through two years--pleasantly we must suppose, by their continued support; and profitably,
we are gratefully bound to acknowledge, to all parties interested. An early dinner at Clifton,
and a pleasant walk back by the terrace-road, brought us once more into the busy streets of
Bristol, where after sauntering away the time until five o'clock, we mounted a Bath coach,
and started forwards with a fresh impetus, and much promise of amusement, to explore the territories
of King Bladud.

SKETCHES IN BATH.

~235~~

     First View of the elegant City--Meeting with Old Blackstrap
     --Domicile at the Castle Tavern--Matthew and Mrs. Temple
     worthy Characters--Sportsmans Hall--Bath Heroes of the Turf
     the Ring, and the Chace--Portraits and Peculiarities drawn
     from the Life.

          May I ne'er flutter in the thoughtless train
          With fashion's elves, the giddy, and the vain;
          May I ne'er stroll again with Milsom swells
          To Tully's shop, or lounge with pump-room belles;
          May I no more to Sidney Gardens stray,
          If, Bath, I wrong thee in my hum'rous lay.
          Court of King Blad', where crescents circling rise
          Above each other till they reach the skies;
          And hills o'er-topping with their verdant green
          The Abbey Church, are in the distance seen:

~296~~Where inns invite ye, and where lodgings smile A ready welcome to some Grecian pile;
Where chairmen wait ye, ready to attend And box ye up upon your latter end; Where summer breezes
on Hygeia wait, And cards and fashion hold their courts of state. Hither we're come to Bath,
to spy and tell What reigning follies mark the beau and belle; What stars eccentric move within
thy sphere, Or who's the greatest lion of the year. "Have at ye all," we satirists give no
quarter; Yet shall our mirth prove grateful as Bath water.

The distant appearance, or first glimpse of the city of Bath, is enough to impress a stranger
with the most favourable opinions of the place. The regularity of the streets, and the tasteful
character of the architecture of the principal buildings, are certainly superior to that of
any other place of public resort in England; added to which, there is an attention to cleanliness
apparent in the costume of the lower classes that is not so conspicuous in other places. "Blest
source of health! seated on rising ground, With friendly hills by nature guarded round; From
eastern blasts and sultry south secure, The Air's balsamic, and the soil is pure." Surrounded
by delightful scenery, and guarded from the piercing north winds by the hilly barriers of nature,
the spot seems above all others best calculated to restore the health of the valetudinarian,
whose constitution has become shattered and infirm by a course of fashionable dissipation,
or a lengthened residence in the pestilential climates of the Indies. "Sweet Bath! the liveliest
city of the land; Where health and pleasure ramble hand in hand, Where smiling belles their
earliest visit pay, And faded maids their lingering blooms delay. Delightful scenes of elegance
and ease! Realms of the gay, where every sport can please." ~297~~Thus sings the Bath poet,
Bayly; who, if he is somewhat too servile an imitation of Moore in his style, has certainly
more of originality in his matter than generally distinguishes poems of such a local nature.
One of the greatest characters in the city of Bath was the worthy host of our hotel, the Castle;
at whose door stood the rubicund visage of our Cheltenham friend, Blackstrap, ready to give
us a hearty welcome, and introduce us to Matthew Temple, who making one of his best bows, led
the way into the coffee-room, not forgetting to assure us that Mistress Temple, who was one
of the best women in the world, would take the greatest care that we had every attention paid
to our commands and comforts; and, in good truth, honest Matthew was right, for a more comely,
good-humoured, attentive, kind hostess exists not in the three kingdoms of his Gracious Majesty
George the Fourth. In short, Mrs. Temple is the major-domo of the Castle, while honest Matthew,
conscious of his own inability to direct the active operations of the garrison within doors,
beats up for recruits without; attends to all the stable duty and the commissariat, keeps a
sharp look-out for new arrivals by coach, and a still sharper one that no customer departs
without paying his bill; and thus having made his daily bow to the inns and the outs, honest
Matthew retires at night to take his glass of grog with the choice spirits who frequent Sportsman's
Hall, a snug little smoking room on the left of the gateway, where the heroes of the turf and
the lads of the fancy nightly assemble to relate their sporting anecdotes, sing a merry chaunt,
book the long odds, and blow a friendly cloud in social intercourse and good fellowship.

I do not know that it matters much at what end of Bath society I commence my sketches; and
experience has taught me, that the more fashionable frivolities of high life seldom present
the same opportunity for the ~298~~study of character, which is to be found in the merry, open-hearted,
mirthful meetings of the medium classes and the lower orders. The pleasure we had felt in Blackstrap's
society at Cheltenham, induced us to engage him to dine in the coffee-room, with our early
friends Heartly and Eglantine, both of whom being then at Bath, we had invited to meet us,
in the expectation that Dick Gradus, having arranged his legal affairs at Berkeley, would,
by the dinner hour, arrive to join such a rare assemblage of old Eton cons--a gratification
we had the pleasure to experience; and never did the festive board resound with more pleasant
reminiscences from old friends: the social hour fled gaily, and every fresh glass brought its
attendant joke. Heartly and Eglantine had, we found, been sufficiently long in Bath to become
very able instructors to Transit and myself in all that related to the haute class, and old
Barnaby Blackstrap was an equally able guide to every description of society, from the mediums
down to the strange collections of vagrant oddities which are to be found in the back Janes
and suburbs of the city of Bath. It has been well said, in a spirited reply to the Reverend
Mr. Ek--r--s--l's illiberal satire, entitled "The Bath Man," that "London has its divisions
of good and bad sets as well as Bath; nay, every little set has its lower set; Bank looks down
contemptuously upon wealth; those who are asked to Carlton Palace cut the muligatawny set;
the ancient aristocracy call law-lords and parvenues a bad set; and so downward through the
whole scale of society, from Almack's to a sixpenny hop, 'still in the lowest deep a lower
deep,' and human pride will ever find consolation that there is something to be found beneath
it. Plain men, accustomed to form their notions of good and evil on more solid foundations
than grades of fashionable distinctions, will not consent to stigmatize as bad any class of
society because there may happen to ~299~~be a class above it." And what better apology could
we desire for our eccentric rambles through every grade of Bath society? with us every set
has its attractions, and I have known my friend Transit cut a nobleman and half a dozen honourables
for the delightful gratification of enjoying the eccentricities of a beggars' club, and being
enabled to sketch from the life the varied exhibition of passion and character which such a
meeting would afford him. It will not, therefore, create any surprise in my readers, that our
first evening in Bath should have been devoted to the social pipe; the pleasant account Blackstrap
gave us of the sporting party, in Matthew Temple's snuggery, induced us to adjourn thither
in the evening, where we might enjoy life, smoke our cigars, join a little chaffing about the
turf and the ring, sip our punch and grog, enjoy a good chaunt, and collect a little character
for the pages of the English Spy. To such as are fond of these amusements, most heartily do
I recommend a visit to the Sporting Parlour at the Castle, where they will not fail to recognise
many of the jovial characters represented in the opposite page; and as old Time pays no respect
to worth and mellow-hearted mortals, but in his turn will mow down my old friend Matthew and
his merry companions, I am desirous to perpetuate their memory by a song, which will include
all of note who upon this occasion joined the festive scene.

SPORTSMAN'S HALL.

A SCENE AT THE CASTLE.

~300~~

          Come all you gay fellows, so merry and witty,
          Ye Somerset lads of the elegant city,
          Ye sons of the turf who delight in a race,
          And ye Nimrods of Bath who are fond of the chase;
          Come join us, and pledge us, like true brothers all,
          At old Matthew Temple's, the Castle and Ball.

          Will Partridge, the father of sports, in the chair,
          With honest George Wingrove will welcome you there,
          While Handy, who once on two horses could ride,
          And merry Jack Bedford will meet you beside;
          Then for sport or for spree, or to keep up the ball,
          We've an excellent fellow, you'll own, in Bill Hall.

~301~~

          Captain Beaven, a yeoman of merry renown,
          Will keep up the joke with the gay ones from town,
          While, if you'd go off in a canter or speed,
          You've only to take a few lessons with Mead;
          Then Sharland can suit every beau to a T,
          So haste to the Castle, ye lovers of glee.

          Sweet Margerim, clerk of the course, will be found
          With any young sportsman to trot o'er the ground,
          Though his Honesty, since at Wells races 'twas tried,
          It must be admitted, has bolted aside;
          The Newcombe's are good at all sports in the ring,
          While, like Chanticleer, Hunt the Cocker will sing.

          Jack Langley, the fam'd 'Squire Western of Bath,
          A jolly fox-hunter, who's fond of a laugh,
          With mellow Tom Williams, of Brewers a pair,
          Are the bacchanals form'd for to banish dull care;
          Then haste to the Castle, ye true merry sprites,
          Where the song, and the chase, and the fancy delights.

          Give a host more to name of the jovial and free,
          That my song would extend till to-morrow d'ye see:
          But a truce to particulars; take them all round,
          There's nothing in Bath like themselves to be found;
          Where harmony, friendship, and mirth can combine,
          The pleasures of life with kind hearts and good wine.

And in good truth, there is no place within the dominions of King Bladud, where the social
man can find more cheerful companions, the sporting man more kindred spirits, and the lovers
of the characteristic and the humorous meet with a greater variety of genuine eccentricity,
unalloyed with any baser or offensive material. Matthew Temple himself is a great original,
pure Somerset, perfectly good-natured, ever ready to oblige, and although for many years the
commander-in-chief of the Castle, is yet in all the chicanery of his

~302~~

profession, and the usual obtrusiveness of a landlord, as unlike the generality of his brethren
as a raw recruit is to an effective soldier. Old Master William Partridge is also worthy of
notice as the father of the turf, and then if you would ride to hounds, no man in Bath can
mount you better, or afford you such good corn, great attentions, and a warm stall for a prime
hack. Rich in anecdote, and what is still better, with a charitable purse and a worthy heart,
there are few men who have earned for themselves more respect in this life, or deserve it better,
than William Handy, Esq. the once celebrated equestrian, who having realized a handsome competency,
retired, some years since, to Bath, to enjoy his otium cum dignitate: here, at an advanced
age, with all the spirits of youth, and a lively interest in every thing relating to sporting,
you will meet with the character I have described; and, take my word for it, will not be disappointed
in the likeness. Among the bon vivants of Sportsmans' Hall I must not omit that care-killing
soul Captain Beaven, whose easy flow of good-humour and love of good sport is not less conspicuous
than his love for a pretty lass, and his delight in a good song and a cheerful glass. Honest
George Wingrove, a wealthy baker, and the patriarch of the room, will never prove a crusty
customer, I am sure; and if that good-looking fellow Mead, the riding-master, does sometimes
"o'erstep the modesty of nature" in his mode of addressing his pupils, adopting the familiar
style of addressing them by their christian name--as, for instance, "set upright, Sally; more
forward, Eliza; keep your rein-hand more square, Ellen;" and soon; he hath, however, yet many
good points that amply compensate for this perverseness of habit. Among the genuine good ones,
the real thing, as the sporting phrase has it, not a biped in Bath beats Tom Williams, who,
agreeable to our Eton Gradus, is good at every thing: a more jovial, worthy-hearted, respected
soul breathes not within the merry court of King Bladud, and very ~303~~few there that can
rival him in a good horse, a long run, or as a lively companion. Tom is married to the sister
of Bartley, the comedian, and carries with him into private life the estimation which ever
attends him in public. For a rum story, a bit of real life, or a roguish joke, who shall excel
Jack Bedford? And then, if your honour would knock the balls about, why "Jack's the lad" to
accommodate you. And little Bill Hall, who keeps the Kingston billiard-rooms, will be most
happy to make his best bow to you without any view to the mace. But, i' faith, I am sketching
away here in Sportsman's Hall at old Matthew Temple's, and could continue so to do for another
chapter; forgetting, as Transit says, that we have yet to traverse the whole city of Bath through,
spying into the vagaries and varieties of the more polished, and taking a slight occasional
glance at the lowest grade of society, in order to diversify and keep up the chiaroscuro of
our pictures.

Merry reader, for such I hope thou art, we have now travelled on for nearly two years together;
and many a varied scene in life's pilgrimage have we set before you, from the gilded dome of
royalty to the humble shed of the Emeralder; but our visit to Bath will afford you a richer
treat than aught that has yet preceded it. It was when the party broke up at Temple's, and
that was not before the single admonition of old father Time had sounded his morning bell,
that a few bon vivants of the Castle, accompanied by the English Spy and his merry friends,
sallied forth in quest of strange adventure; for it must be admitted, that in the elegant city

          "Candles and ladies' eyes oft shine most bright,
          When both should be extinguish'd for the night."

A fancy ball at the Upper Rooms on this night had attracted all the elegance, fashion, and
beauty to be found within the gay circle of pleasure, and thither ~304~~we bent our steps,
having first provided ourselves with the necessary introductions. The scene above all others
in the fascination of gay life and the display of female charms is a fancy ball; a species
of entertainment better suited to the modest character of our countrywomen than the masquerade,
and, in general, much better liked in this country, where the masked entertainment, unless
in private, is always avoided by females of rank and character. One of the most amusing scenes
which first presented itself to our notice on approaching the entrance to the rooms was the
eager anxiety and determined perseverance of the liveried Mercuries and Bath dromedaries, alias
chairmen, to procure for their respective masters and mistresses a priority of admission; an
officious zeal that was often productive of the most ludicrous circumstances, and, in two or
three instances, as far as indispensable absence from the pleasures of the night could operate,
of the most fatal effects. A well-known city beau, who had been at considerable expense in
obtaining from London the splendid dress of a Greek prince, was completely upset and rolled
into the kennel by his chairmen running foul of a sedan, in which Lord Molyneaux and his friend
Lord Ducie had both crammed themselves in the dress of Tyrolese chieftains. The Countess of
D--------, who personated Psyche, in attempting to extricate herself from an unpleasant situation,
in which the obstinacy of her chairmen had placed her, actually had her glittering wings torn
away, unintentionally, from her shoulders by the rude hand of a Bath rustic, whose humanity
prompted him to attempt her deliverance. Old Lady L--------, in the highest state of possible
alarm, from feeling her sedan inclining full twenty degrees too much to the right, popped her
head up, and raising the top part of the machine, screamed out most piteously for assistance,
and on drawing it back ~305~~again, tore off her new head-dress, and let her false front shut
in between the flap of the chair, by which accident, all the beautiful Parisian curls of her
ladyship were rendered quite flat and uninteresting. An old gentleman of fortune, who was suffering
under hypochondriacal affection, and had resolved to attempt Sir John Falstaff, received the
end of a sedan pole plump in his chest, by which powerful application he was driven through
the back part of the machine, and effectually cured of "la maladie imaginaire" by the acuteness
of a little real pain. The flambeau of a spruce livery servant setting fire to the greasy tail
of a Bath chairman's surtout produced a most awkward rencontre, by which a husband and wife,
who had not been associated together for some years, but were proceeding to the ball in separate
chairs, were, by the accidental concussion of their sedans in a moment of alarm, actually thrown
into each other's arms; and such was the gallantry of the gentleman, that he marched into the
ball-room bearing up the slender frame of his heretofore forsaken rib, to whom he from that
time has become reunited. The lady mayoress of the city was excessively indignant on finding
her preeminence of entrée disputed by the wife of a Bristol butcher; while the chair of the
master of the ceremonies was for some time blocked in between the sedans of two old tabbies,
whose expressions of alarm, attempts at faintings, and little flights of scandal, had so annoyed
the poor M. C. that when he entered the ball-room, he felt as irritable as a tantalized lover
between two female furies. In short, the scene was rich in amusement for the group of merry
hearts who had left the Castle in quest of adventure; and while we were enjoying the ludicrous
effects produced by the jostling of the sedans, my friend Transit had sketched the affair in
his usual happy style, and designated it thus: ~306~

THE BATTLE OF THE CHAIRS.

           "The chairs are order'd, and the moment comes,
           When all the world assemble at the rooms."

Illustration: page306]

For the ball-room itself, it was the most splendid scene that the magic power of fancy could
devise. The variety of characters, the elegance of the dresses, and the beauty of the graceful
fair, joined to their playful wit and accomplished manners, produced a succession of delights
which banished from the heart of man the recollection of his mortal ills, and gave him, for
the passing time, a semblance of Elysian pleasures. The rooms are admirably calculated for
this species of entertainment, and are, I believe, the largest in England; while the excellent
regulations and arrangements adopted by the master of the ceremonies to prevent any of those
unpleasant intrusions, too often admitted into mixed assemblies, deserved the highest commendation.
It is from scenes of this description that the writer on men ~307~~and manners extracts his
characters, and drawing aside from the mirth-inspiring group, contemplates the surrounding
gaieties, noting down in his memory the pleasing varieties and amusing anecdotes he has there
heard; pleasantries with which at some future time he may enliven the social circle of his
friends, or by reviving in print, recall the brightest and the best recollections of those
who have participated in their gay delights.

          "In this distinguish'd circle you will find
          Many degrees of man and woman kind."

And as I am here "life's painter, the very Spy o' the time," I shall endeavour to sketch a
few of the leading Bath characters; most of the gay well-known being upon this occasion present,
and many an eccentric star shining forth, whose light it would be difficult to encounter in
any other circle. The accompanying view of the rooms by Transit will convey a correct idea
of the splendour of the entertainment, and the fascinating appearance of the assembled groups.

          "Ranged on the benches sit the lookers-on,
          Who criticise their neighbours one by one;
          Each thinks herself in word and deed so bless'd,
          That she's a bright example for the rest.
          Numerous tales and anecdotes they hatch,
          And prophesy the dawn of many a match;
          And many a matrimonial scheme declare,
          Unknown to either of the happy pair;
          Much delicate discussion they advance,
          About the dress and gait of those who dance;
          One stoops too much; and one is so upright,
          He'll never see his partner all the night;
          One is too lazy; and the next too rough;
          This jumps too high, and that not high enough.
          Thus each receives a pointed observation,
          Not that it's scandal--merely conversation."

A three months' sojournment at Bath had afforded my friend Eglantine an excellent opportunity
for ~308~~estimating public character, a science in which he was peculiarly well qualified
to shine; since to much critical acumen was joined a just power of discrimination, aided by
a generosity of feeling that was ever enlivened by good-humoured sallies of playful satire.
To Horace Eglantine, I may apply the compliment which Cleland pays to Pope--he was incapable
of either saying or writing "a line on any man, which through guilt, through shame, or through
fear, through variety of fortune, or change of interest, he would ever be unwilling to own."
It too often happens that the cynic and the satirist are themselves more than tinged with the
foibles which they so severely censure in others. "You shall have a specimen of this infirmity,"
said Horace, "in the person of Peter Paul Pallet; a reverend gentleman whom you will observe
yonder in the dress of a Chinese mandarin. Some few years since this pious personage took upon
himself the task of lashing the prevailing follies of society in a satire entitled Bath Characters,
and it must be admitted, the work proves him to have been a fellow of no ordinary talent; but
an unfortunate amour with the wife of a reverend brother, which was soon after made public,
added to certain other peculiarities and eccentricities, have since marked the satirist himself
as one of the most prominent objects for the just application of his own weapon."

          Come hither, Paul Pallet, your portrait I'll paint:
          You're a satirist, reverend sir, but no saint.

But as some of his characters are very amusing, and no doubt very correct portraits of the
time, 1808, my readers shall have the advantage of them, that they may be the better able to
contrast the past with the present, and form their own conclusions how far society has improved
in morality by the increase of methodism, the influx of evangelical breathings, or the puritanical
pretensions of bible societies. I shall pass by his description of the club; gaming ever was
~309~~and ever will be a leading fashionable vice, which only poverty and ruin can correct
or cure. The clergy must, however, be greatly delighted at the following picture of the cloth,
drawn by one of their holy brotherhood. "The Bath church," says the satirist, "is filled with
croaking ravens, chattering jays, and devouring cormorants; black-headed fanatics and white-headed
'dreamers of dreams;' the aqua-fortis of mob politics, and the mawkish slip-slop of modern
divinity; rank cayenne pepper, and genuine powder of post!" Really a very flattering description
of our clerical comforters, but one which, I lament to say, will answer quite as well for 1826,
with, perhaps, a little less of enthusiasm in the composition, and some faint glimmerings of
light opposed to the darkness of bigotry and the frauds of superstition. Methodism is said
to be on the wane--we can hear no better proof that true religion and good sense are coming
into fashion. The sketch of Mrs. Vehicle, by the same hand, is said to have been a true copy
of a well-known female gambler; it is like a portrait of Sir Joshua Reynolds, a picture worthy
of preservation from its intrinsic merits, long after the original has ceased to exist: how
readily might it be applied to half a score card-table devotees of the present day! "Observe
that ton of beauty, Mrs. Vehicle, who is sailing up the passage, supported like a nobleman's
coat of arms by her amiable sisters, the virtuous widow on one side, and the angelic Miss Speakplain
on the other. By my soul! the same roses play upon her cheeks now that bloomed there winters
ago, the natural tint of that identical patent rouge which she has enamelled her face with
for these last twenty years; her gait and presence, too, are still the same--Vera incessa patuit
Dea; she yet boasts the enchanting waddle of a Dutch Venus, and the modest brow of a Tower-hill
Diana. Ah, Jack, would you but take a few lessons from my old friend ~310~~at the science of
shuffle and cut, you would not rise so frequently from the board of green cloth, as you now
do, with pockets in which the devil might dance a saraband without injuring his shins against
their contents. Why, man, she is a second Breslaw with a pack; I have known her deal four honours,
nine trumps to herself three times in the course of one rubber, and not cut a higher card to
her adversary than a three during the whole evening. Sensible of her talents, and of the impropriety
of hiding them in a napkin, she chose Bath, independence, and her own skill in preference to
a country parsonage, conjugal control, and limited pin-money. Her caro sposo meanwhile retired
to his living; and now blesses himself on his escape from false deals, odd tricks, and every
honour but the true one." One more sketch, and I have done; but I cannot pass by the admirable
portrait of a Bath canonical, "Jolly old Dr. Mixall, rosy as a ripe tomata, and round as his
own right orthodox wig,

          'With Atlantean shoulders, fit to bear
          The weight of mightiest monarchies!'

Awful and huge, he treads the ground like one of Bruce's moving pillars of sand! What a dark
and deep abyss he carries before him--the grave insatiate of turtle and turbot, red mullet
and John Dories, haunches and pasties, claret, port, and home-brewed ale! But his good-humour
alone would keep him at twenty stone were he to cease larding himself for a month to come;
and when he falls, may the turf lie lightly on his stomach! Then shall he melt gently into
rich manure;

          'And fat be the gander that feeds on his grave.'"

          "But now for the moderns," said Horace; "for the
          enchanting fair,

          'Whose snow-white bosoms fascinate the eye,
          Swelling in all the pride of nudity;

~311~~

          The firm round arm, soft cheek, and pouting lip,
          And backs exposed below the jutting hip;
          To these succeed dim eyes, and wither'd face»,
          And pucker'd necks as rough as shagreen cases,
          But whose kind owners, hon'ring Bladud's ball,
          Benevolently show their little all.'"

But I must not particularize here, as I intend sketching the more prominent personages during
a morning lounge in Milsom-street; when, appearing in their ordinary costume, they will be
the more easily recognised in print, and remain a more lasting memorial of Bath eccentrics,

SKETCHES IN BATH--CHAPTER II.

~312~~

     Well-known Characters in the Pump-room taking a Sip with
     King Bladud--Free Sketches of Fair Game--The awkward
     Rencontre, or Mr. B------and Miss L.--Public Bathing or
     stewing alive--Sober Thoughts--Milsom-street Swells--A
     Visit to the Pig and Whistle, Avon-street--of the Buff
     Club.

          To the pump-room we went, where the grave, and the gay,
          And the aged, and the sickly, lounge time away;
          Where all the choice spirits are seen making free
          With the sov'reign cordial, the true eau de vie.

The déjeuné over, the first place to which the stranger in Bath is most desirous of an introduction
is the Pump-room; not that he anticipates restoration to health from drinking the waters, or
imagines the virtues of immortality are to be found by immersion in the baths; but if he be
a person of any condition, he is naturally anxious to show off make his bow to the gay throng,
and, at the same time, elucidate the exact condition of Bath Society. If, however, he is a
mere plebeian in search of novelty, coupling pleasure with business, or an invalid sent here
by his doctors to end his days, he is still anxious, while life remains, to see and be seen;
to observe whom he can recognise among the great folks he has known in the metropolis, or perchance,
meet consolation from some suffering fellow citizen, who, like himself, has been conveyed to
Bath to save his family the misery of seeing him expire beneath his own roof. "What an admirable
variety of character does this scene present," said Transit, who, on our first ~313~~entrance,
was much struck with the magnificence of the rooms, and still more delighted with the immense
display of eccentricities which presented themselves. "I must introduce you, old fellow," said
Eglantine, "to a few of the oddities who figure here. The strange-looking personage in the
right-hand corner is usually called Dick Solus, from his almost invariably appearing abroad
by himself, or dangling after the steps of some fair Thespian, to the single of whom he is
a very constant tormentor. Mrs. Egan of the theatre, 'who knows what's what,' has christened
him Mr. Dillytouch; while the heroes of the sock and buskin as invariably describe him by the
appellation of Shake, from an unpleasant action he has both in walking and sitting. The sour-visaged
gentleman at this moment in conversation with him is the renowned Peter Paul Pallet, esq.,
otherwise the Reverend Mr. M-----------. Behind them appears a celebrated dentist and his son,
who has attained the rank of M.D., both well known here by the titles of the Grand Duke of
Tusk-aney and Count Punn-tusk-y, a pair of worthies always on the lookout for business, and
hence very constant attendants at the promenade in the Pump-room. The old gentleman in the
chintz morning-gown hobbling along on crutches, from the gout, is a retired vinegar merchant,
the father of a Chancery M.P., of whom the Bath wags say, 'that when in business, he must always
have carried a sample of his best vinegar in his face.'" At this moment old Blackstrap advanced,
and requested permission to introduce to our notice Jack Physick, an honest lawyer, and, as
he said, one of the cleverest fellows and best companions in Bath. Jack had the good fortune
to marry one of the prettiest and most attractive actresses that ever appeared upon the Bath
stage, Miss Jamieson, upon which occasion, the wags circulated many pleasant jeux d'esprits
on the union of "love, law, and physic." The arrival of a very pompous gentleman, who appeared
to ~314~~excite general observation, gave my friend Eglantine an opportunity of relating an
anecdote of the eccentric, who figures in Pultney-street under the cognomen of the Bath bashaw.
"There," said Horace, "you may see him every morning decorated in his flannel robe de chambre
and green velvet cap, seated outside in his balcony, smoking an immensely large German pipe,
and sending forth clouds of fragrant perfume, which are pleasantly wafted right or left as
the wind blows along the breakfast tables of his adjoining neighbours. This eccentric was originally
a foundling discovered on the steps of a door in Rath, and named by the parochial officers,
Parish: by great perseverance and good fortune he became a Hambro' merchant, and in process
of time realized a handsome property, which, much to his honour and credit, he retired to spend
a portion of among the inhabitants of this city, thus paying a debt of gratitude to those who
had protected him in infancy when he was abandoned by his unnatural parents. The little fellow
yonder with a military air, and no want of self-conceit, is a field-officer of the Bath volunteers,
Adjutant Captain O'Donnel, a descendant from the mighty King Bryan Baroch, and, as we say at
Eton, no small beer man, I assure you." "Who is that gigantic fellow just entering the rooms'?"
said Heartly. "That is Long Heavisides," replied Eglantine, "whom Handsome Jack and two or
three more of the Bath wits have christened, in derision, Mr. Light-sides, a right pleasant
fellow, quite equal in intellect and good-humour to the altitude of his person, which, I am
told, measures full six feet six." "Gentlemen," said the facetious Blackstrap, "here comes
an old lady who has paid dearly for a bit of the Brown, lately the relict of the late Admiral
M'Dougal, and now fresh at seventy the blooming wife of a young spark who has just attained
the years of discretion, at least, as far as regards ~315~~pecuniary affairs; for before leading
the old lady into church, she very handsomely settled three thousand per annum upon her Adonis,
as some little compensation to his feelings, for the rude jests and jeers he was doomed to
bear with from his boon companions." "Eyes right, lads," said Eglantine; "the tall stout gentleman
in a blue surtout and white trowsers is General B---------."

"Pshaw! never mind his name," said Heartly; "what are his peculiarities?" "Why--imprimis, he
has a lovely young female commander in chief by his side--is a great reader with a very little
memory. A very good story is told of him, that I fear might be applied with equal justice to
many other great readers; namely, that some wags having at different times altered the title-page,
and pasted together various leaves of a popular Scotch novel, they thus successfully imposed
upon the General the task of reading the same matter three times over--by this means creating
in his mind an impression, not very far from the truth, that all the works of the Great Unknown
bore a very close similitude to each other; an opinion which the General is said to maintain
very strenuously unto this hour. Of all the characters in the busy scene of life which can
excite a pleasurable sensation in the close observer of men and manners, is your gay ancient,
whether male or female; the sprightly Evergreens of society, whose buoyant spirits outlive
the fiery course of youth, while their playful leafage buds forth in advanced life with all
the freshness, fragrance, and vigour of the more youthful plants. Such," said Eglantine, "is
the old beau yonder, my friend Curtis, who is here quaintly denominated the Everlasting.

The jolly Bacchanalian, who accompanies him in his morning's lounge, is Charles Davis, a right
jolly fellow, universally respected, although, it must be admitted, he is a party man, since
in a ~316~~show of hands, Charles must always, unfortunately, be on one side." A promenade
up and down the room, and a visit to the goddess Hygeia, for such, I suppose, the ancient matron
who dispenses the healing draught must be designated, gave us an opportunity of observing the
fresh arrivals, among whom we had the pleasure to meet with an old naval officer, known to
Heartly, a victim to the gout, wheeled about in a chair, expecting, to use his own sea phrase,
to go to pieces every minute, but yet full of spirits as an admiral's grog bottle, as fond
of a good joke as a fresh-caught reefer, and as entertaining as the surgeon's mate, or the
chaplain of the fleet. "I say, Master Heavtly," said the captain, "the frigate yonder with
the brown breast works, and she with the pink facings, look something like privateers. My forelights,
Master Heartly, but if I had the use of my under works, I should be for firing a little grape
shot across their quarters to see if I could not bring them into action!" "And I will answer
for it, they would not show any objection to lie alongside of you, captain," said Eglantine,
"while you had got a shot left in your locker. Mere Cyprian traders, captain, from the Gulf
of Venus, engaged in gudgeon bawling, or on the lookout for flat fish. The little craft, with
the black top, is called the Throgmorton; and the one alongside the Ormsby of Berkeley is the
Pretty Lacy, a prime frigate, and quite new in the service. If you have a mind to sail up the
Straits of Cytherea, captain, I can answer for it we shall fall in with a whole fleet of these
light vessels, the two Sisters; the Emery's; the yawl, Thomson; that lively little cutter,
Jackson; the transports, King and Hill; the lugger, Lewis; and the country ship, the Lady Grosvenor,
all well found, and ready for service, and only waiting to be well manned. A good story is
just now afloat about the Lacy, who, being recently taken up for private trade by Commodore
Bowen, was ~317~~discovered to be sailing under false colours. It appears, that during the
commander's absence a dashing enemy, the captain of the Hussar, a man of war, had entered the
cabin privately, and having satisfied himself of the state of the vessel, took an opportunity
to overhaul the ship's stores, when drinking rather freely of some choice love~age, a cordial
kept expressly for the commodore's own use, he was unexpectedly surprised by the return of
the old commander on board; and in making his escape through the cabin window into a boat he
had in waiting, unfortunately left his time-piece and topmast behind. This circumstance is
said to have put the commodore out of conceit with his little frigate, who has since been paid
off', and is now chartered for general purposes." At this little episode of a well-known Bath
story, the captain laughed heartily, and Transit was so much amused thereat, that on coming
in contact with the commodore and the captain in our perambulations, he furnished the accompanying
sketch of that very ludicrous scene, under the head of

          The Bath beau and frail belle,
          Or Mr. B------and Miss L-----.

An excellent band of music, which continues to play from one to half past three o'clock every
day during the season, greatly increases the attraction to the rooms, and also adds much to
the cheerfulness and gaiety of the scene. We had now nearly exhausted our materials for observation;
and having, to use Transit's phrase, booked every thing worthy of note, taken each of us a
glass of the Bath water, although I confess not swallowing it without some qualmish apprehensions
from the recollection of the four lines in Anstey's Bath Guide.

          "They say it is right that for every glass,
          A tune you should take that the water may pass;
          So while little Tabby was washing her rump,
          The ladies kept drinking it out of the pump."

~318~~A very pleasant piece of satire, but somewhat, as I understand, at the expense of truth,
since the well from which the water in the pump room is obtained is many feet below the one
that supplies the baths; situation certainly assists the view of the satirist. I ought not
to pass over here the story told us by our old friend Blackstrap, respecting the first discovery
of these waters by Bladud, the son of Lud Hudibras, king of Britain; a fabulous tale, which,
for the benefit of the city all true Bathonians are taught to lisp with their horn book, and
believe with their creed, as genuine orthodox; and on which subject my friend Horace furnished
the following impromptu.

          Oh, Lud! oh, Lud! that hogs and mud{1}
          Should rival sage M.D.'s;
          And hot water, in this quarter,
          Cure each foul disease.

"Throw physic to the dogs, I'll have none on't,'" said Horace: "if hot water can effect such
wonders, why, a plague on all the doctors! Let a man be content to distil his medicine fresh
from his own teakettle, or make his washing copper serve the double purpose for domestic uses
and a medicated bath.

          'But what is surprising, no mortal e'er view'd
          Any one of the physical gentlemen stew'd.
          From the day that King Bladud first found out these bogs,
          And thought them so good for himself and his hogs,
          Not one of the faculty ever has tried
          These excellent waters to cure his own hide;
          Though many a skilful and learned physician,
          With candour, good sense, and profound erudition,
          Obliges the world with the fruits of his brain,
          Their nature and hidden effects to explain.'

     1 See the fabulous account alluded to in Warner's History of
     Bath, where Bladud is represented to have discovered the
     properties of the warm springs at Beechen Wood Swainswick,
     by observing the hogs to wallow in the mud that was
     impregnated therewith, and thus to have derived the
     knowledge of a cure for 'tis leprous affection.

~319~~But allons, lads," said Horace, "we are here to follow the fashion, and indulge in all
the eccentricities of the place; to note the follies of the time, and depict the chief actors,
without making any personal sacrifice to correct the evil. Our satire will do more to remove
old prejudices when it appears in print, aided by Bob Transit's pencil, than all our reasonings
upon the spot can hope to effect, although we followed Mr. M'Culloch's economy, and lectured
upon decency from break of day to setting sun. In quitting the pump-room we must not, however,
omit to notice the statue of Beau Nash, before which Transit appears, in propria personæ, sketching
off the marble memento, without condescending to notice the busts of Pope and Newton, which
fill situations on each side; a circumstance which in other times produced the following epigram
from the pen of the witty earl of Chesterfield.

          "The statue plac'd the busts between
          Adds satire to the strength;
          Wisdom and Wit are little seen,
          But Folly at full length."

Such is the attachment of man to the recollections of any thing associated with pleasure, that
it is questionable if the memory of old Joe Miller is not held in higher estimation by the
moderns than that of Father Luther, the reformer; and while the numerous amusing anecdotes
in circulation tend to keep alive the fame of Nash, it is not surprising that the merry pay
court to his statue, being in his own dominions, before they bow at the classic shrine of Pope,
or bend in awful admiration beneath the bust of the greatest of philosophers.

          "'Twas said of old, deny it now who can,
          The only laughing animal is man."

And we are about to present the reader with a right merry scene, one, too, if he has any fun
in his composition, or loves a good joke, must warm the cockles ~320~~of his heart. Who would
ever have thought, in these moralizing times, when the puritans are raising conventicles in
every town and village, and the cant of vice societies has spread itself over the land, that
in one of our most celebrated places of fashionable resort, there should be found baths where
the young and the old, the beauteous female and the gay spark, are all indiscriminately permitted
to enjoy the luxurious pleasure together. That such is the case in Bath no one who has recently
participated in the pleasures of immersion will dispute, and in order to perpetuate that gratification,
Bob Transit has here faithfully delineated the scene which occurred upon our entering the King's
Bath, through the opening from the Queen's, where, to our great amusement and delight, we found
ourselves surrounded by many a sportive nymph, whose beauteous form was partially hidden by
the loose flannel gown, it is true; but now and then the action of the water, produced by the
continued movements of a number of persons all bathing at the same time, discovered charms,
the which to have caught a glimpse of in any other situation might have proved of dangerous
consequences to the fair possessors. The baths, it must be admitted, are delightful, both from
their great extent and their peculiar properties, as, on entering from the Queen's Bath you
may enjoy the water at from 90 to 96 degrees, or requiring more heat have only to walk forward,
through the archway, to obtain a temperature of 116. The first appearance of old Blackstrap's
visage floating along the surface of the water, like the grog-blossomed trunk of the ancient
Bardolph, bound up in a Welsh wig, was truly ludicrous, and produced such an unexpected burst
of laughter from my merry companions, that I feared some of the fair Naiads would have fainted
in the waters from fright, and then Heaven help them, for decency would have prevented our
rushing to their assistance. The notices to prevent gentlemen ~321~~from swimming in the baths
are, in my opinion, so many inducements or suggestions for every young visitor to attempt it.
Among our mad wags, Horace Eglantine was more than once remonstrated with by the old bathing
women for indulging in this pleasure, to the great alarm of the ladies, who, crowding together
in one corner with their aged attendants, appeared to be in a high state of apprehension lest
the loose flannel covering that guards frail mortality upon these occasions should be drawn
aside, and discover nature in all her pristine purity--an accident that had very nearly happened
to myself, when, in endeavouring to turn round quickly, I found the water had disencumbered
my frame of the yellow bathing robe, which floated on the surface behind me.

One circumstance which made our party more conspicuous, was, the rejection of the Welsh wigs,
which not all the entreaties of the attendant could induce any of the wags to wear. The young
ladies disfigure themselves by wearing the black bonnets of the bathing women; but spite of
this masquerading in the water, their lovely countenances and soul-subduing eyes, create sensations
that will be more easily conceived than prudently described. A certain facetious writer, who
has published his "Walks through Bath," alluding to this practice, speaks of it as having been
prohibited in the fifteenth century. How long such prohibition, if it ever took place, continued,
it is not for me to know; but if the Bath peripatetic historian had made it his business to
have seen what he has described, he would have found, that the practice of bathing males and
females together in puris naturalibus was still continued in high perfection, in spite of the
puritans, the Vice Society, or the prohibition of Bishop Beckyngton.{2}

     2 It appears, that about the middle of the fifteenth century
     it was the custom for males and females to bathe together,
     in puris naturalibus, which was at length prohibited by
     Bishop Beckyngton, who ordered, by way of distinction, the
     wearing of breeches and petticoats; this indecency was
     suppressed, after considerable difficulty, at the end of the
     sixteenth century, (quere, what indecency does our author of
     the "Walks through Bath" mean? the incumbrance of the
     breeches and petticoats, we must imagine). It also seems,
     that about 1700 it was the fashion for both sexes to bathe
     together indiscriminately, and the ladies used to decorate
     their heads with all the advantages of dress, as a mode of
     attracting attention and heightening their charms. The
     husband of a lady in one of the baths, in company with Beau
     Nash, was so much enraptured with the appearance of his
     wife, that he very im-prudently observed, "she looked like
     an angel, and he wished to be with her." Nash immediately
     seized him by the collar, and threw him into the bath; this
     circumstance produced a duel, and Nash was wounded in his
     right arm: it however had the good effect of establishing
     the reputation of Nash, who shortly after became master of
     the ceremonies.

~322~~

          "You cannot conceive what a number of ladies
          Were wash'd in the water the same as our maid is:
          How the ladies did giggle and set up their clacks
          All the while an old woman was rubbing their backs;
          Oh! 'twas pretty to see them all put on their flannels,
          And then take the water, like so many spaniels;
          And though all the while it grew hotter and hotter,
          They swam just as if they were hunting an otter.
          'Twas a glorious sight to behold the fair sex
          All wading with gentlemen up to their necks,
          And view them so prettily tumble and sprawl
          In a great smoking kettle as big as our hall;
          And to-day many persons of rank and condition
          Were boil'd, by command of an able physician."

From the baths we migrated to the grand promenade of fashion, Milsom Street, not forgetting
to take a survey of the old Abbey Church, which, as a monument of architectural grandeur without,
and of dread monition within, is a building worthy the attention of the antiquarian and the
philosopher; while perpetuating the remembrance of many a cherished name to worth, to science,
and to virtue dear, the artist and the amateur may derive much gratification from examining
the many excellent ~323~~pieces of sculpture with which the Abbey abounds. But for us, gay
in disposition, and scarcely allowing ourselves time for reflection, such a scene had few charms,
unless, indeed, the English Spy could have separated himself from the buoyant spirits with
which he was attended, and then, wrapt in the gloom of the surrounding scene, and given up
to serious contemplation, the emblems of mortality which decorate the gothic pile might have
conjured up in his mind's eye the forms of many a departed spirit, of the blest shades of long-lost
parents and of social friends, of those who, living, lent a lustre to the arts, of witty madcaps
frost-bitten by the sable tyrant Death, nipped in the very bud of youth, while yet the sparkling
jest was ripe upon the merry lip, and the ruddy glow of health upon the cheek gave earnest
of a lengthened life------But, soft! methinks I hear my reader exclaim, "How now, madcap, moralizing
Mr. Spy? art thou, too, bitten by the desire to philosophize, thou, 'the very Spy o' the time,'
the merry buoyant rogue who has laughed all serious scenes to scorn, and riding over hill,
and dale, and verdant plain upon thy fiery courser, fleet as the winds, collecting the cream
of comicalities, and, beshrew thee, witling, plucking the brightest flowers that bloom in the
road of pleasure to give thy merry garland's perfume, and deck thy page withal, art thou growing
serious? Then is doomsday near; and poor, deserted, care-worn man left unprotected to the tempest's
rage!" Not so, good reader, we are still the same merry, thoughtless, laughing, buoyant sprite
that thou hast known us for the last two years; but the archer cannot always keep his bow upon
the stretching point; so there are scenes, and times, and fancies produced by recollective
circumstances and objects, which create strange conceits even in the light-hearted bosom of
the English Spy. Such was the train of reflections which rushed in ~324~~voluntarily upon my
mind as I noted down the passing events of the day, a practice usual with me when, retiring
from the busy hum of men, I seek the retirement of my chamber to commit my thoughts to paper.
I had recently passed through the depository where rest the remains of a tender mother--had
sought the spot, unnoticed by my light-hearted companions, and having bedewed with tears of
gratitude her humble grave, gave vent to my feelings, by the following tribute to a parent's worth.

MY MOTHER'S GRAVE.

          Beneath yon ivy-mantled wall,
          In a lone corner, where the earth
          Presents a rising green mound, all
          Of her who lov'd and gave me birth

          Lies buried deep.   No trophied stone,
          Or graven verse denotes the spot:
          Her worth her epitaph alone,
          The green-sward grave her humble lot.

          How silent sleep the virtuous dead!
          For them few sculptured honours rise,
          No marble tablet here to spread
          A fame--their every act implies.

          No mockery here, nor herald's shield,
          To glitter o'er a bed of clay;
          But snow-drops and fresh violets yield
          A tribute to worth pass'd away.

          Tread lightly, ye who love or know
          En life's young road a parent's worth,
          Who yet are strangers to the woe
          Of losing those who gave you birth,

~325~~

          Who cherish'd, fondled, fed, and taught
          From infancy to manhood's pride,
          Directing every opening thought,
          Teaching how Reason's power should guide.

          Ye rich and bold, ye grave and gay,
          Ye mightiest of the sons of men,
          Wealth, honours, fame shall sink away,
          And all be equalized again;

          Save what the sculptor may pourtray,
          And any tyrant, fool, or knave
          Who has the wealth, may in that way
          His name from dull oblivion save;

          That is, he may perpetuate
          His worthlessness, his frauds, and crimes;
          No matter what his tomb relate,
          His character lives with the times.

          Shade of my parent! couldst thou hear
          The voice of him, thine only child,
          Implore thy loss with filial tear,
          And deck thy grave with sonnets wild,

          'Twould all thy troubles past repay,
          Thy anxious cares, thy hopes and fears,
          To find as time stole life away,
          Thy mem'ry brighten'd with his years.

          Yes, sacred shade! while mem'ry guides
          This ever wild eccentric brain,
          While reason holds or virtue chides,
          Still will I pour the filial strain.

"What," said my old friend Horace Eglantine, after reading this tribute to parental worth,
"Bernard Blackmantle moralizing; our Spy turned ~326~~monody-maker, writing epitaphs, and elegies,
and odes to spirits that have no corporal substance, when there are so many living subjects
yet left for his merrier muse to dwell upon? Come, old fellow, shake off this lethargy of the
mind, this vision of past miseries, and prepare for present merriments.

          'The streets begin to fill, the motley throng
          To see and to be seen, now trip along;
          Some lounge in the bazaars, while others meet
          To take a turn or two in Milsom-street;
          Some eight or ten round Mirvan's shop remain,
          To stare at those who gladly stare again.'

In short, my dear fellow, we are all waiting your company to join the swells in Milsom-street;
where, I have no doubt, you will find many a star of fashion, whose eccentricities you will
think justly entitles him to a niche in your gallery of living characters.

          'Lords of the creation, who, half awake,
          Adorn themselves their daily lounge to take;
          Each lordly man his taper waist displays,
          Combs his sweet locks, and laces on his stays,
          Ties on his starch'd cravat with nicest care,
          And then steps forth to petrify the fair.'

Such, for instance, is that roué yonder, the very prince of Bath fops, Handsome Jack, whose
vanity induces him to assert that his eyebrows are worth one hundred per annum to any young
fellow in pursuit of a fortune: it should, however, be admitted, that his gentlemanly manners
and great good-nature more than compensate for any little detractions on the score of self-conceit.
What the son is, the father was in earlier life; and the old beau is not a little gratified
to observe the estimation in which his son is held by the fair sex, on account of his attractive
person and still more prepossessing manners.

"You have heard of Peagreen Hayne's exploits at Burdrop Park; and here comes the proprietor
of the ~327~~place, honest Tom Calley, as jovial a true-hearted English gentleman as ever followed
a pack of foxhounds, or gloried in preserving and promoting the old English hospitalities of
the table: circumstances, the result of some hard runs and long odds, have a little impaired
the family exchequer; however the good wishes of all who know him attend him in adversity.
But the clouds which have for a time obstructed his sunshine of mirth are fast wearing away,
and when he shall return to the enjoyment of his patrimonial acres, he will be sure to meet
a joyous welcome from all surrounding him, accompanied with the heartfelt congratulations of
those to whom in Bath he is particularly endeared. The smart little fellow driving by in his
cabriolet is beau Burgess, a single star, and one of no mean attraction among the fair spinsters,
who can estimate the merits and admire the refulgence of ten thousand sovereign attendant satellites.

Bath is, perhaps, now the only place in the kingdom where there is yet to be found a four-in-hand
club; a society of gentlemen Jehus, who formerly in London cut no inconsiderable figure in
the annals of fashion, and who, according to our mode of estimating the amusements of the gay
world, were very unfairly satirized, seeing, that with the pursuit of pleasure was combined
the additional employment of a large number of mechanics, and a stimulus given, not only to
the improvement of a noble breed of horses, but to the acquirement of a knowledge, the perfection
of which in the metropolis is particularly necessary to the existence of the peripatetic pleasures
of his majesty's subjects. Here we have Colonel Allen, who puts along a good team in very prime
style, and having lately been spliced to a good fortune, is a perfect master in the manage-ment
of the bit.

"Squire Richards is, also, by no means a contemptible knight of the ribbons, only he sometimes
measures ~328~~his distance a little too closely; a practice, which if he does not improve
upon, may some day, in turning a corner, not bring him off right. 'A follower of the Buxton
school and a true knight of the throng,' says old Tom Whipcord in the Annals of Sporting, 'must
not expect to drive four high-bred horses well with an opera-glass stuck in his right ogle.'
A bit of good advice that will not only benefit the squire if he attends to it, but perhaps
save the lives of one or two of the Bath pedestrians. The leader of the club, who, by way of
distinction from his namesake the colonel, is designated Scotch Allen, is really a noble whip,
putting along four horses in first-rate style, all brought well up to their work, and running
together as close and as regular as the wheels of his carriage. The comical little character
upon the strawberry pony is the Bath Adonis; a fine specimen of the Irish antique, illustrated
with a beautiful brogue,and emblazoned with a gold coat of arms. The amours of old B-----------in
Bath would very well fill a volume of themselves; but the anecdote I gave you in the Pump-room
of little Lacy and her paramour will be sufficient to show you in what estimation he is held
by the ladies." "Give me leave to introduce you to a Raer fellow," said Heartly; "an old friend
of mine, who has all his lifetime been a wholesale dealer in choice spirits, and having now
bottled off enough for the remainder of his life, is come to spend the evening of his days
in Bath among the bon vivants of the elegant city, enjoying the tit bits of pleasure, and courting
the sweet society of the pretty girls. By heavens! boys, we shall be found out, and you, Mr.
Spy, will be the ruin of us all, for here comes our old sporting acquaintance, Charles Bannatyne,
with his Jackall at his heels, accompanied by that mad wag Oemsby, the Cheltenham amateur of
fashion, and the gallant little Lieutenant Valombre, who having formerly made a rich capture
of Spanish dollars, is perhaps upon the look-out here ~329~~for a frigate well-laden with English
specie, in order to sail in consort, and cruize off the straits of independence for life. Well,
success attend him," said Heartly; "for he well deserves a good word whether at sea or on shore.
The military-looking gentleman yonder, who is in close conversation with that rough diamond,
Ellis, once a London attorney, is the highly-respected Colonel Fitzgerald, whom our friend
Transit formerly caricatured under the cognomen of Colonel Saunter, a good-humoured joke, with
which he is by no means displeased himself." "But, my dear fellows," said Transit, "if we remain
fixed to this spot much longer, we shall have the eyes of all the beau monde upon us, and stand
a chance of being pointed at for the rest of the time that we remain in Bath." A piece of advice
that was not wholly unnecessary, for being personally known to a few of the sporting characters,
our visit to the elegant city had spread like wildfire, and on our appearance in Milsom-street,
a very general desire was expressed by the beaux to have a sight of the English Spy and his
friend Transit, by whose joint labours they anticipated they might hereafter live to fame.

One of the most remarkable personages of the old school still left to Bath is the celebrated
Captain Mathews, the author of "a short Treatise on Whist," and the same gentleman who at an
early period of life contested with the late R. B. Sheridan, upon Lansdowne, for the fair hand
of the beauteous Miss Lindly, the lady to whom the wit was afterwards married. In this way
did my pleasant friends Heartly and Eglantine continue to furnish me with brief notices of
the most attractive of the stars of fashion who usually lounge away the mornings in Milsom-street,
exchanging the familiar nod and "How d'ye do?" and holding sweet discourse among their fragrant
selves upon the pursuits of the haute classe, the merits of the last new novel, or the fortune
of the last unmarried feminine ~330~~arrival. To these may be added reminiscences of the last
night's card-table and remarks upon the Balls at the rooms; for

          "Two musical parties to Bladud belong,
          To delight the old rooms and the upper;
          One gives to the ladies a supper, no song,
          And the other a song and no supper."

"The jolie dame to the right," said Horace, "is the mother of England's best friend, the Secretary
for the Foreign Department, George Canning, a man to whom we are all indebted for the amalgamation
of party, and the salvation of the country The clerical who follows immediately behind Mrs.
Hunn is a reverend gentleman whose daughters both recently eloped from his house on the same
morning attended by favoured lovers to bind with sacred wreaths their happy destinies at the
shrine of Hymen." We had now reached the bottom of the street again, after having made at least
a dozen promenades to and fro, and were on the point of retiring to our hotel to dress for
dinner, when Heartly directed my attention to a dashing roue, who, dressed in the extreme of
superlative style, was accompanied by a beautiful piece of fair simplicity in the garb of a
Puritan. "That," said my friend, "is the beautiful Miss D**T--one of the faithful, whom the
dashing Count L***c***t has recently induced to say ay for life: thus gaining a double prize
of no mean importance by one stroke of good luck--a fine girl and a fine fortune into the bargain."
I must not forget our friend the consulting surgeon H***ks, or omit to notice that in Bath
the faculty are all distinguished by some peculiar title of this sort, as, the digestive Physician,
the practical Apothecary, and the operative Chemist; a piece of quackery not very creditable
to their acknowledged skill and general respectability. At dinner we were again joined by our
facetious ~331~~friend Blackstrap, who, to use his own phraseology, having made "a good morning's
work of it," hoped he might be permitted to make one among us, a request with which we were
most willing to comply. In the evening, after the bottle had circulated freely, some of our
party proposed a visit to the theatre, but as Bath theatricals could not be expected to afford
much amusement to London frequenters of the theatres royal, Transit suggested our sallying
forth for a spree;" for," said he, "I have not yet booked a bit of true life since I have been
in Bath. The pump-room, the bathers, and the swells in Milsom-street, are all very well for
the lovers of elegant life; but our sporting friends and old college chums will expect to see
a genuine touch or two of the broad humour of Bath--something suburban and funny. Cannot you
introduce us to any thing pleasant of this sort!" said Transit, addressing Blackstrap: "perhaps
give us a sight of the interior of a snug convent, or show us where the Bath wonderfuls resort
to carouse and sing away their cares."--"It is some years since," said Blackstrap, "that in
the company of a few merry wags, I paid a visit to the Buff-club in Avon-street: but as you,
gentlemen, appear disposed for a little fun, if you will pledge yourselves to be directed by
me, I will undertake to introduce you to a scene far exceeding in profligacy and dissipation
the most florid picture which our friend Transit has yet furnished of the back settlements
in the Holy-land." With this understanding, and with no little degree of anticipatory pleasure,
did our merry group set forth to take a survey of the interior of the long room at the Pig
and Whistle in Avon-street. Of the origin of this sign, Blackstrap gave us a very humorous
anecdote: the house was formerly, it would appear, known by the sign of the Crown and Thistle,
and was at that time the resort of the Irish Traders who visited Bath to dispose of their linens.
One of these Emeralders ~332~~having lost his way, and being unable to recollect either the
name of the street or the sign of his inn, thus addressed a countryman whom he accidentally
met: "Sure I've quite forgotten the sign of my inn." "Be after mentioning something like it,
my jewel," said his friend. "Sure it's very like the Pig and Whistle," replied the enquirer.
"By the powers, so it is:--the Crown and Thistle, you mean;" and from this mistake of the Emeralder,
the house has ever since been so designated. Upon our visit to this scene of uproarious mirth,
we found it frequented by the lowest and most depraved characters in society; the mendicants,
and miserable of the female sex, who, lost to every sense of shame or decency, assemble here
to indulge in profligacies, the full description of which must not stain the pages of the English
Spy.

As a scene of low life, my friend Transit has done it ample justice, where the portraits of
Lady Grosvenor as one of the Cyprian frequenters is designated, the Toad in a Hole, and Lucy
the Fair, will be easily recognised. A gallon of gin for the ladies, and a liberal distribution
of beer and tobacco for the males, made us very welcome guests, and insured us, during our
short stay, at least from personal interruption. It may be asked why such a house is licensed
by the magistracy; but when it is known that characters of this sort will always be found in
well-populated places, and that the doors are regularly closed at eleven o'clock, it is perhaps
thought to be a measure of prudence to let them continue to assemble in an obscure part of
the suburbs, where they congregate together under the vigilant eye of the police, instead of
being driven abroad to seek fresh places of resort, and by this means increase the evils of
society.

The next morning saw my friend Transit and myself again prepared to separate from our friends
Heartly and Eglantine, on our way to Worcester, ~333~~where we had promised to pay a visit
to old Crony on our road back to London. Reader, if our sketches in Bath are somewhat brief,
remember we are ever on the wing in search of novelty, and are not disposed to stay one day
longer in any place than it affords fresh food for pen and pencil In the characters we have
sketched we disclaim any thought of personal offence; eccentrics are public property, and must
not object to appear in print, seeing that they are in the journey through life allowed to
ride a free horse, without that curb which generally restrains the conduct of others But I
must here take my farewell of the elegant city of that attractive spot of which Bayley justly sings

          "In this auspicious region all mankind
          (Whate'er their taste) congenial joys may find;
          Here monied men may pass for men of worth;
          And wealthy Cits may hide plebeian birth.
          Here men devoid of cash may live with ease,
          Appear genteel, and pass for what they please."

WAGGERIES AT WORCESTER.

~334~~The meeting with an old friend at Worcester induced us to domicile there for the space
of three days, during which time I will not say we were laid up with Lavender, but certainly
near enough to scent it. Most of our Worcester acquaintance will however understand what is
meant by this allusion to one of the pleasantest fellows that ever commanded the uncivil customers
in the Castle, since the time of the civil wars. The city is perhaps as quiet a dull place
as may be found within his majesty's dominions, where a cannon-ball might be fired down the
principal street at noon-day without killing more than the ruby-nosed incumbent of a fat benefice,
a superannuated tradesman, or a manufacturer of crockery-ware. No stranger should, however,
pass through the place without visiting the extensive China works of Messrs. Flight and Barr,
to which the greatest facility is given by the proprietors; and the visit must amply repay
any admirer of the arts. A jovial evening, spent with our old friend of the Castle, had ended
with a kind invitation from him to partake of a spread at his hotel on the following morning;
but such was the apprehensions of Transit at the idea of entering this mansion of the desolate,
from being troubled with certain qualmish remembrances of the previous night's debauch, that
not all my intreaties, nor the repeated messages of the worthy commander of the Castle, could
bring our friend Transit to book.

~335~~To those who know my friend John, and there are few of any respectability who do not
both know and admire him, his facetious talent will require but little introduction. Lavender
is what a man of the world, whose business it has been to watch over the interests of society,
should be, superior in education and in mind, to any one I ever met with filling a similar
situation: the governor of the Castle is a companion for a lord, or to suit the purposes of
justice, instantly metamorphosed into an out and outer, a regular knowing cove, whose knowledge
of flash and the cant and slang used by the dissolute is considered to be superior to that
of any public officer. A specimen of this will be found in the following note, which a huge
fellow of a turnkey brought to my bedside, and then apologised for disturbing me, by pleading
the governor's instructions.

     "QUEER COVES,

     "I hope you have left your dabs,{1}
     and nobs,{2} all right: perhaps prime legs{3} is queer in
     the oration-box{4} from a too frequent use of the
     steamer{5} last darky.{6} I make this fakement{7} to let
     you know I and morning spread are waiting.

     Steel-hotel,                                       Yours, &c.

     June 9, 1825.                                      LOCKIT."

My readers will very readily conceive that with such a companion we were not long in tracing
out what little of true life was to be found in Worcester, and certainly one of the pleasantest
scenes in which we participated was a visit to the Subscription Bowling Alley, where, in the
summer time, the most respectable of the inhabitants of Worcester meet every evening

     1 Beds.

     2 Heads.

     3 Cruikshank..

     4 Cranium.

     5 A pipe.

     6 Night.

     7 A note.

~336~~for recreation; and a right pleasant company we found them. The Caleb Quotem of the society,
Dr. Davis, united in one person all the acquirements of the great original: he not only keeps
the time of the city, but keeps all the musicians of the place in time; regulates the watch
and the watches, and plays a solo à la Dragonetti upon the double bass. Sam Swan is another
choice spirit, who sings a good chant, lives well respected, and sails down the stream of time
as pleasantly as if he was indeed a royal bird.

An old Burdettite, Will Shunk, recognised in us a partizan of the government candidate at one
of the Westminster Elections: "But, sir," said Will, "politics and I have nearly parted; for
you must know, I am tolerably well breeched, and can fairly say I am hand and glove with all
the first nobility in the kingdom." A truth to which Captain Corls readily assented by explaining
that Master William Shunk was a first-rate glover, and considered worth a plum at least: "in
short, sir," said the captain, "he is a nabob here, and brings to my mind some of the eastern
princes with whom I have met during my Campaigns in the East." The very mention of which exploit
induced our friend the governor to tip us the office, and the joke was well humoured until
silver Powell, who they say comes from Norfolk, interrupted our travels in India, with, "Captain,
can't you see that ere Athlantic fellow, the governor, is making fun of you to amuse his London
friends." A hint that appeared to strike the Captain very forcibly, for it struck him dumb.
A good-humoured contest between honest Joe Shelton, and Probert the school-master, elicited
some very comical exposures in the way of recriminations. Joe, it would appear, is an artist
in economy; and an old story about a lobster raised Joe's ire to its height, and produced the
Lex taliones on Probert, ~337~~whose habits of frugality wanted his competitor's humour to
make them pass current. Transit, who had been amusing himself with sketching the characters,
had become acquainted with a sporting Reverend, whose taste for giblets had proved rather expensive;
and who was most desirous of appearing in print: a favor merry Stephen Godson, the lawyer,
requested might also be extended to him." "Ay," said John Portman, "and if you want a character
for your foreground rich in colour, my phiz is much at your service; and here's George Brookes,
the radical, to form a good dark object in the distance." In this way the evening passed off
very pleasantly. Our friend had made the object of our visit to the Bowling Alley known to
some few of his intimates, circumstance that I have no doubt rather operated to prevent a display
of some of those good-humoured eccentricities with which it is not unfrequently marked. Upon
my return to town, I received a farewell ode from my Spirit in the Clouds, evidently written
under a misconception that the English Spy was about to withdraw himself for a time, from his
sketches on men and manners, when in fact, although his labours will here close with the completion
of a Second Volume, his friends will find, that he is most desirous of still engaging their
attentions in a new form, attended not only by all his former associates, but uniting in his
train the brightest and the merriest of all the choice Spirits of the Age.

BERNARD BLACKMANTLE TO HIS READERS.

To prevent a misconception, and do himself justice, the author of the English Spy feels it
necessary to state, that in every instance the subjects for the Plates illustrating this work
have been furnished by his pen, and not unfrequently, the rough ideas have ~338~~first emanated
from his own pencil; while he states this fact to prevent error, he is most anxious to acknowledge
the great assistance he has derived from the inimitable humour and graphic skill in the execution
of the designs, by his friend Robert Transit.

A SHORT ODE AT PARTING,

FROM HIS "SPIRIT IN THE CLOUDS"

TO THE ENGLISH SPY.

~339~~

     Prospero. Now does my project gather to a head;
     My charms crack not; my spirits obey:
     ----How's the day?

     Ariel.  On the sixth hour; at which time, my lord,
     You said our work should cease.

     --Shakspkare's Tempest.

     So fare you well; I have left you commands.
     Ibid.--As you like it.

          "'Tis true, and pity 'tis, 'tis true,"
          That though on fairest winds we flew,
          I in the clouds, beneath them you,
          We still must parted be;

          And that, e'en whilst the world still hung
          On what you wrote, and what I sung,
          Enamour'd of our double tongue,
          Exits my Bernard B-----.

          Well, all great actors must have pause,
          When toiling in a patriot cause,
          And ere another scene he draws,
          New characters to cast,

~340~~

          Secure of having played his part,
          As nature dictates, from the heart,
          'Tis fair before another start,
          He brush up from the last.

          But how will humbugs of the age,
          (I don't mean Mr. B.'s dull page,)
          Crow that they scape satiric rage,
          And get off in whole skins;

          How will dramatic fools rejoice!
          No more is heard great Bernard's voice,
          And that, Heav'n knows, there is a choice,
          Their flummery begins.{1}

          But go your ways; it may be wise,
          To let these puny, pestering flies
          Buzz about people's ears and eyes,
          A season or two longer;

          There must be evil mixed with good,
          A bottom to the clearest flood,
          And let them stand where others stood,
          Till shown who is the stronger.

          Then, fortune-hunting squires of Bath,
          Fine as the Burmese jewell'd Rath,{2}
          Pray totter o'er your Bond-street path,
          A respite short is yours.

     1 I speak of would-be actors (male and female), vain and
     incompetent managers, flippant and unequal critics, puffed
     and translating authors, in short, of all before and behind
     the curtain who have injured, or may injuro, the legitimate
     drama. Let the theatres, like our trade, be free, and
     monopoly thrive not, and for their success the Spirit will
     ever pray; at present, it is "a mad world, my masters;" and
     I am afraid Mr. Rayner with his long and set speeches, as
     chairman of Thomas's Shakspeareans, will not mend the
     matter. We note this to him in a friendly way; seeing, that
     he is a worthy fellow, and a clever Caliban, and really
     loves Shakspeare next to Newmarket and Doncaster.

     2 The  Burmese   carriage is certainly  a curious   machine
     of Indian workmanship; but it is, we should fancy, mere
     outside--fine to look at, but a "rum one to go," like the
     be-togged, be-booted, be-spurred, furred, and cloaked half
     pays, fortune-hunters, gentlemen with the brogue, &c. that
     pay their court so assiduously to Mrs. Dolland's cheesecakes
     and Mr. Heaviside's quadrilles. But the world is often
     ornament caught.

~341~~

          And daughter-selling mothers, still
          Lure the young boys, their eyes may kill,
          To wed your flesh and blood, and fill
          Your purse, and pay your tours.

          Ye London blacks, ye Cheltenham whites,{3}
          Ye turners of the days to nights,
          Make, make the most of all your flights,
          Whilst I and Bernard doze;

          But still be sure, by this same token,
          We still shall sleep with one eye open{4}
          And the first hour our nap is broken,
          You'll pay for't through the nose.

     3 There are indeed "black spirits and white spirits" of all
     sorts and sizes, at all times and places; and a well-cut
     coat and a white satin dress are frequently equally
     dangerous glossings to frail and cunning mortality within.
     To be sure, we have brought down the "tainted wethers of
     dame Nature's flock" with the double barrels of wit and
     satire, right and left; but like mushrooms or mole-hills,
     they are a breeding, increasing species, and it will be only
     a real battue of sharp-shooting that will destroy the
     coveys.    Nevertheless,

          "I have a rod in pickle,
           Their------------------"

     I declare the Spirit is growing earthly.

     4 The Bristol men "down along," sleep, they say, in this way
     and hence is it rare for Jew or Gentile, Turk or infidel, to
     get the blind side of them. Some of them, however, have ere
     now been done brown, and that too by being too fanciful and
     neat in their likings.    These tales of the sleepers of an
     eye are too good to be lost; they shall be bound up in the
     volume of my brain, hereafter to be perused with advantage.
     At present,

          "I hear a voice thou canst not hear;
          I see a hand thou canst not see;
          It calls to me from yonder sphere,
          It points to where my brethren be."

~342

          When that time comes, and come it must,
          For what we say is not pie-crust,
          To yield to every trifling thrust,
          England shall see some fun.

          Like "eagles in a dove-cote," we
          Both rooks and pigeons will make flee,
          Whilst every cashless company
          Shall, laugh'd at, "cut and run."

          Thus telling painted folly's sect,
          What they're to look to, what expect,
          My farewell words I now direct
          To thee, migrating Spy;

          That done, deliver'd all commands,
          I man a cloud-ship with brave hands,
          And sail to (quitting mortal lands),
          My parlour in the sky.

          Bernard, farewell; may rosy health
          Companion'd by that cherub wealth,
          Be constant to you, like myself,
          Your own departing spirit.

          Not that you're going to die; no, no,
          You'll only take a nap or so;
          But yet I wish you, 'fore you go,
          These blessings to inherit.

          Bernard, farewell; pray think of me,
          When you ride earth, or cross the sea;
          On both, you know, I've been with thee,
          And sung some pretty things;

          Great Spy, farewell; when next you rise
          To make of fools a sacrifice,
          You'll hear, down-cleaving from the skies,
          The rustle of my wings.

          January, 1826.

~343~~

Bernard Blackmantle and Bob Transit,

THE END.

