The vestibule of the Laurentian Library illustrates his method of procedure. It is a rectangular
box of about a cube and two thirds, set length-way up. The outside of the building, left unfinished,
exhibits a mere blank space of bricks. The interior might be compared to a temple in the grotesque-classic
style turned outside in: colossal orders, meaningless consoles, heavy windows, square recesses,
numerous doors--the windows, doors, and attics having no right to be there, since they lead
to nothing, lend view to nothing, clamour for bronze and sculpture to explain their existence
as niches and receptacles for statuary. It is nevertheless indubitably true that these incongruous
and misplaced elements, crowded together, leave a strong impression of picturesque force upon
the mind. From certain points and angles, the effect of the whole, considered as a piece of
deception and insincerity, is magnificent. It would be even finer than it is, were not the
Florentine pietra serena of the stonework so repellent in its ashen dulness, the plaster so
white, and the false architectural system so painfully defrauded of the plastic forms for which
it was intended to subserve as setting.

We have here no masterpiece of sound constructive science, but a freak of inventive fancy using
studied details for the production of a pictorial effect. The details employed to compose this
curious illusion are painfully dry and sterile; partly owing to the scholastic enthusiasm for
Vitruvius, partly to the decline of mediaeval delight in naturalistic decoration, but, what
seems to me still more apparent, through Michelangelo's own passionate preoccupation with the
human figure. He could not tolerate any type of art which did not concede a predominant position
to the form of man. Accordingly, his work in architecture at this period seems waiting for
plastic illustration, demanding sculpture and fresco for its illumination and justification.

It is easy, one would think, to make an appeal to the eye by means of colossal orders, bold
cornices, enormous consoles, deeply indented niches. How much more easy to construct a box,
and then say, "Come, let us cover its inside with an incongruous and inappropriate but imposing
parade of learning," than to lift some light and genial thing of beauty aloft into the air,
as did the modest builder of the staircase to the hall at Christ Church, Oxford! The eye of
the vulgar is entranced, the eye of the artist bewildered. That the imagination which inspired
that decorative scheme was powerful, original, and noble, will not be denied; but this does
not save us from the desolating conviction that the scheme itself is a specious and pretentious
mask, devised to hide a hideous waste of bricks and mortar.

Michelangelo's imagination, displayed in this distressing piece of work, was indeed so masterful
that, as Vasari says, a new delightful style in architecture seemed to be revealed by it. A
new way of clothing surfaces, falsifying façades, and dealing picturesquely with the lifeless
element of Vitruvian tradition had been demonstrated by the genius of one who was a mighty
amateur in building. In other words, the Barocco manner had begun; the path was opened to prank,
caprice, and license. It required the finer tact and taste of a Palladio to rectify the false
line here initiated, and to bring the world back to a sense of seriousness in its effort to
deal constructively and rationally with the pseudo-classic mannerism.

The qualities of wilfulness and amateurishness and seeking after picturesque effect, upon which
I am now insisting, spoiled Michelangelo's work as architect, until he was forced by circumstance,
and after long practical experience, to confront a problem of pure mathematical construction.
In the cupola of S. Peter's he rose to the stern requirements of his task. There we find no
evasion of the builder's duty by mere surface-decoration, no subordination of the edifice to
plastic or pictorial uses. Such side-issues were excluded by the very nature of the theme.
An immortal poem resulted, an aërial lyric of melodious curves and solemn harmonies, a thought
combining grace and audacity translated into stone uplifted to the skies. After being cabined
in the vestibule to the Laurentian Library, our soul escapes with gladness to those airy spaces
of the dome, that great cloud on the verge of the Campagna, and feels thankful that we can
take our leave of Michelangelo as architect elsewhere.

VI

While seeking to characterise what proved pernicious to contemporaries in Michelangelo's work
as architect, I have been led to concentrate attention upon the Library at S. Lorenzo. This
was logical; for, as we have seen, Vasari regarded that building as the supreme manifestation
of his manner. Vasari never saw the cupola of S. Peter's in all its glory, and it may be doubted
whether he was capable of learning much from it.

The sacristy demands separate consideration. It was an earlier work, produced under more favourable
conditions of place and space, and is in every way a purer specimen of the master's style.
As Vasari observed, the Laurentian Library indicated a large advance upon the sacristy in the
development of Michelangelo's new manner.

At this point it may not unprofitably be remarked, that none of the problems offered for solution
at S. Lorenzo were in the strictest sense of that word architectural. The façade presented
a problem of pure panelling. The ground-plan of the sacristy was fixed in correspondence with
Brunelleschi's; and here again the problem resolved itself chiefly into panelling. A builder
of genius, working on the library, might indeed have displayed his science and his taste by
some beautiful invention adapted to the awkward locality; as Baldassare Peruzzi, in the Palazzo
Massimo at Rome, converted the defects of the site into graces by the exquisite turn he gave
to the curved portion of the edifice. Still, when the scheme was settled, even the library
became more a matter of panelling and internal fittings than of structural design. Nowhere
at S. Lorenzo can we affirm that Michelangelo enjoyed, the opportunity of showing what he could
achieve in the production of a building independent in itself and planned throughout with a
free hand. Had he been a born architect, he would probably have insisted upon constructing
the Medicean mausoleum after his own conception instead of repeating Brunelleschi's ground-plan,
and he would almost certainly have discovered a more genial solution for the difficulties of
the library. But he protested firmly against being considered an architect by inclination or
by education. Therefore he accepted the most obvious conditions of each task, and devoted himself
to schemes of surface decoration.

The interior of the sacristy is planned with a noble sense of unity. For the purpose of illuminating
a gallery of statues, the lighting may be praised without reserve; and there is no doubt whatever
that Michelangelo intended every tabernacle to be filled with figures, and all the whitewashed
spaces of the walls to be encrusted with bas-reliefs in stucco or painted in fresco. The recesses
or niches, taking the form of windows, are graduated in three degrees of depth to suit three
scales of sculptural importance. The sepulchres of the Dukes had to emerge into prominence;
the statues subordinate to these main masses occupied shallower recesses; the shallowest of
all, reserved for minor statuary, are adorned above with garlands, which suggest the flatness
of the figures to be introduced. Architecturally speaking, the building is complete; but it
sadly wants the plastic decoration for which it was designed, together with many finishing
touches of importance. It is clear, for instance, that the square pedestals above the double
pilasters flanking each of the two Dukes were meant to carry statuettes or candelabra, which
would have connected the marble panelling with the cornices and stucchi and frescoed semicircles
of the upper region. Our eyes are everywhere defrauded of the effect calculated by Michelangelo
when he planned this chapel. Yet the total impression remains harmonious. Proportion has been
observed in all the parts, especially in the relation of the larger to the smaller orders,
and in the balance of the doors and windows. Merely decorative carvings are used with parsimony,
and designed in a pure style, although they exhibit originality of invention. The alternation
of white marble surfaces and mouldings with pietra serena pilasters, cornices, and arches,
defines the structural design, and gives a grave but agreeable sense of variety. Finally, the
recess behind the altar adds lightness and space to what would otherwise have been a box. What
I have already observed when speaking of the vestibule to the library must be repeated here:
the whole scheme is that of an exterior turned outside in, and its justification lies in the
fact that it demanded statuary and colour for its completion. Still the bold projecting cornices,
the deeper and shallower niches resembling windows, have the merit of securing broken lights
and shadows under the strong vertical illumination, all of which are eminently picturesque.
No doubt remains now that tradition is accurate in identifying the helmeted Duke with Lorenzo
de' Medici, and the more graceful seated hero opposite with Giuliano. The recumbent figures
on the void sepulchres beneath them are with equal truth designated as Night and Day, Morning
and Evening. But Michelangelo condescended to no realistic portraiture in the statues of the
Dukes, and he also meant undoubtedly to treat the phases of time which rule man's daily life
upon the planet as symbols for far-reaching thoughts connected with our destiny. These monumental
figures are not men, not women, but vague and potent allegories of our mortal fate. They remain
as he left them, except that parts of Giuliano's statue, especially the hands, seem to have
been worked over by an assistant. The same is true of the Madonna, which will ever be regarded,
in her imperfectly finished state, as one of the finest of his sculptural conceptions. To Montelupo
belongs the execution of S. Damiano, and to Montorsoli that of S. Cosimo. Vasari says that
Tribolo was commissioned by Michelangelo to carve statues of Earth weeping for the loss of
Giuliano, and Heaven rejoicing over his spirit. The death of Pope Clement, however, put a stop
to these subordinate works, which, had they been accomplished, might perhaps have shown us
how Buonarroti intended to fill the empty niches on each side of the Dukes.

When Michelangelo left Florence for good at the end of 1534, his statues had not been placed;
but we have reason to think that the Dukes and the four allegorical figures were erected in
his lifetime. There is something singular in the maladjustment of the recumbent men and women
to the curves of the sarcophagi, and in the contrast between the roughness of their bases and
the smooth polish of the chests they rest on. These discrepancies do not, however, offend the
eye, and they may even have been deliberately adopted from a keen sense of what the Greeks
called asymmetreia as an adjunct to effect. It is more difficult to understand what he proposed
to do with the Madonna and her two attendant saints. Placed as they now are upon a simple ledge,
they strike one as being too near the eye, and out of harmony with the architectural tone of
the building. It is also noticeable that the saints are more than a head taller than the Dukes,
while the Madonna overtops the saints by more than another head. We are here in a region of
pure conjecture; and if I hazard an opinion, it is only thrown out as a possible solution of
a now impenetrable problem. I think, then, that Michelangelo may have meant to pose these three
figures where they are, facing the altar; to raise the Madonna upon a slightly projecting bracket
above the level of SS. Damiano and Cosimo, and to paint the wall behind them with a fresco
of the Crucifixion. That he had no intention of panelling that empty space with marble may
be taken for granted, considering the high finish which has been given to every part of this
description of work in the chapel. Treated as I have suggested, the statue of the Madonna,
with the patron saints of the House of Medici, overshadowed by a picture of Christ's sacrifice,
would have confronted the mystery of the Mass during every celebration at the altar. There
are many designs for the Crucifixion, made by Michelangelo in later life, so lofty as almost
to suggest a group of figures in the foreground, cutting the middle distance.

At the close of Michelangelo's life the sacristy was still unfinished. It contained the objects
I have described--the marble panelling, the altar with its candelabra, the statues of the Dukes
and their attendant figures, the Madonna and two Medicean patron saints--in fact, all that
we find there now, with the addition of Giovanni da Udine's frescoes in the cupola, the relics
of which have since been buried under cold Florentine whitewash.

All the views I have advanced in the foregoing paragraphs as to the point at which Michelangelo
abandoned this chapel, and his probable designs for its completion, are in the last resort
based upon an important document penned at the instance of the Duke of Florence by Vasari to
Buonarroti, not long before the old man's death in Rome. This epistle has so weighty a bearing
upon the matter in hand that I shall here translate it. Careful study of its fluent periods
will convince an unprejudiced mind that the sacristy, as we now see it, is even less representative
of its maker's design than it was when Vasari wrote. The frescoes of Giovanni da Udine are
gone. It will also show that the original project involved a wealth of figurative decoration,
statuary, painting, stucco, which never arrived at realisation.

VII

Vasari, writing in the spring of 1562, informs Michelangelo concerning the Academy of Design
founded by Duke Cosimo de' Medici, and of the Duke's earnest desire that he should return to
Florence in order that the sacristy at S. Lorenzo may be finished. "Your reasons for not coming
are accepted as sufficient. He is therefore considering --forasmuch as the place is being used
now for religious services by day and night, according to the intention of Pope Clement--he
is considering, I say, a plan for erecting the statues which are missing in the niches above
the sepulchres and the tabernacles above the doors. The Duke then wishes that all the eminent
sculptors of this academy, in competition man with man, should each of them make one statue,
and that the painters in like manner should exercise their art upon the chapel. Designs are
to be prepared for the arches according to your own project, including works of painting and
of stucco; the other ornaments and the pavement are to be provided; in short, he intends that
the new academicians shall complete the whole imperfect scheme, in order that the world may
see that, while so many men of genius still exist among us, the noblest work which was ever
yet conceived on earth has not been left unfinished. He has commissioned me to write to you
and unfold his views, begging you at the same time to favour him by communicating to himself
or to me what your intentions were, or those of the late Pope Clement, with regard to the name
and title of the chapel; moreover, to inform us what designs you made for the four tabernacles
on each side of the Dukes Lorenzo and Giuliano; also what you projected for the eight statues
above the doors and in the tabernacles of the corners; and, finally, what your idea was of
the paintings to adorn the flat walls and the semicircular spaces of the chapel. He is particularly
anxious that you should be assured of his determination to alter nothing you have already done
or planned, but, on the contrary, to carry out the whole work according to your own conception.
The academicians too are unanimous in their hearty desire to abide by this decision. I am furthermore
instructed to tell you, that if you possess sketches, working cartoons, or drawings made for
this purpose, the same would be of the greatest service in the execution of his project; and
he promises to be a good and faithful administrator, so that honour may ensue. In case you
do not feel inclined to do all this, through the burden of old age or for any other reason,
he begs you at least to communicate with some one who shall write upon the subject; seeing
that he would be greatly grieved, as indeed would the whole of our academy, to have no ray
of light from your own mind, and possibly to add things to your masterpiece which were not
according to your designs and wishes. We all of us look forward to being comforted by you,
if not with actual work, at least with words. His Excellency founds this hope upon your former
willingness to complete the edifice by allotting statues to Tribolo, Montelupo, and the Friar
(Giovanni Angelo Montorsoli). The last named of these masters is here, eagerly desirous to
have the opportunity of doing you honour. So are Francesco Sangallo, Giovanni Bologna, Benvenuto
Cellini, Ammanato, Rossi and Vincenzio Danti of Perugia, not to mention other sculptors of
note. The painters, headed by Bronzino, include many talented young men, skilled in design,
and colourists, quite capable of establishing an honourable reputation. Of myself I need not
speak. You know well that in devotion, attachment, love, and loyalty (and let me say this with
prejudice to no one) I surpass the rest of your admirers by far. Therefore, I entreat you,
of your goodness, to console his Excellency, and all these men of parts, and our city, as well
as to show this particular favour to myself, who have been selected by the Duke to write to
you, under the impression that, being your familiar and loving friend, I might obtain from
you some assistance of sterling utility for the undertaking. His Excellency is prepared to
spend both substance and labour on the task, in order to honour you. Pray then, albeit age
is irksome, endeavour to aid him by unfolding your views; for, in doing so, you will confer
benefits on countless persons, and will be the cause of raising all these men of parts to higher
excellence, each one of whom has learned what he already knows in the sacristy, or rather let
me say our school."

This eloquent despatch informs us very clearly that the walls of the sacristy, above the tall
Corinthian order which, encloses the part devoted to sculpture, were intended to be covered
with stucco and fresco paintings, completing the polychromatic decoration begun by Giovanni
da Udine in the cupola. Twelve statues had been designed for the niches in the marble panelling;
and one word used by Vasari, facciate, leaves the impression that the blank walls round and
opposite the altar were also to be adorned with pictures. We remain uncertain how Michelangelo
originally meant to dispose of the colossal Madonna with SS. Damian and Cosimo.

Unhappily, nothing came of the Duke's project. Michelangelo was either unable or unwilling--probably
unable--to furnish the necessary plans and drawings. In the eighth chapter of this book I have
discussed the hesitations with regard to the interior of the sacristy which are revealed by
some of his extant designs for it. We also know that he was not in the habit of preparing accurate
working cartoons for the whole of a large scheme, but that he proceeded from point to point,
trusting to slight sketches and personal supervision of the work. Thus, when Vasari wrote to
him from Rome about the staircase of the library, he expressed a perfect readiness to help,
but could only remember its construction in a kind of dream. We may safely assume, then, that
he had not sufficient material to communicate; plans definite enough in general scope and detailed
incident to give a true conception of his whole idea were lacking.

VIII

Passing to aesthetical considerations, I am forced to resume here what I published many years
ago about the Sacristy of S. Lorenzo, as it now exists. Repeated visits to that shrine have
only renewed former impressions, which will not bear to be reproduced in other language, and
would lose some of their freshness by the stylistic effort. No other course remains then but
to quote from my own writings, indorsing them with such weight as my signature may have acquired
since they were first given to the world.

"The sacristy may be looked on either as the masterpiece of a sculptor who required fit setting
for his statues, or of an architect who designed statues to enhance the structure he had planned.
Both arts are used with equal ease, nor has the genius of Michelangelo dealt more masterfully
with the human frame than with the forms of Roman architecture in this chapel. He seems to
have paid no heed to classic precedent, and to have taken no pains to adapt the parts to the
structural purpose of the building. It was enough for him to create a wholly novel framework
for the modern miracle of sculpture it enshrines, attending to such rules of composition as
determine light and shade, and seeking by the relief of mouldings and pilasters to enhance
the terrible and massive forms that brood above the Medicean tombs. The result is a product
of picturesque and plastic art as true to the Michelangelesque spirit as the Temple of the
Wingless Victory to that of Pheidias. But where Michelangelo achieved a triumph of boldness,
lesser natures were betrayed into bizarrerie; and this chapel of the Medici, in spite of its
grandiose simplicity, proved a stumbling-block to subsequent architects by encouraging them
to despise propriety and violate the laws of structure.

"We may assume then that the colossal statues of Giuliano and Lorenzo were studied with a view
to their light and shadow as much as to their form; and this is a fact to be remembered by
those who visit the chapel where Buonarroti laboured both as architect and sculptor. Of the
two Medici, it is not fanciful to say that the Duke of Urbino is the most immovable of spectral
shapes eternalised in marble; while the Duke of Nemours, more graceful and elegant, seems intended
to present a contrast to this terrible thought-burdened form. The allegorical figures, stretched
on segments of ellipses beneath the pedestals of the two Dukes, indicate phases of darkness
and of light, of death and life. They are two women and two men; tradition names them Night
and Day, Twilight and Dawning. Thus in the statues themselves and in their attendant genii
we have a series of abstractions, symbolising the sleep and waking of existence, action and
thought, the gloom of death, the lustre of life, and the intermediate states of sadness and
of hope that form the borderland of both. Life is a dream between two slumbers; sleep is death's
twin-brother; night is the shadow of death; death is the gate of life:--such is the mysterious
mythology wrought by the sculptor of the modern world in marble. All these figures, by the
intensity of their expression, the vagueness of their symbolism, force us to think and question.
What, for example, occupies Lorenzo's brain? Bending forward, leaning his chin upon his wrist,
placing the other hand upon his knee, on what does he for ever ponder?

"The sight, as Rogers said well, 'fascinates and is intolerable.' Michelangelo has shot the
beaver of the helmet forward on his forehead, and bowed his head, so as to clothe the face
in darkness. But behind the gloom there lurks no fleshless skull, as Rogers fancied. The whole
frame of the powerful man is instinct with some imperious thought. Has he outlived his life
and fallen upon everlasting contemplation? Is he brooding, injured and indignant, over his
own doom and the extinction of his race? Is he condemned to witness in immortal immobility
the woes of Italy he helped to cause? Or has the sculptor symbolised in him the burden of that
personality we carry with us in this life, and bear for ever when we wake into another world?
Beneath this incarnation of oppressive thought there lie, full length and naked, the figures
of Dawn and Twilight, Morn and Evening. So at least they are commonly called, and these names
are not inappropriate; for the breaking of the day and the approach of night are metaphors
for many transient conditions of the soul. It is only as allegories in a large sense, comprehending
both the physical and intellectual order, and capable of various interpretation, that any of
these statues can be understood. Even the Dukes do not pretend to be portraits, and hence in
part perhaps the uncertainty that has gathered round them. Very tranquil and noble is Twilight:
a giant in repose, he meditates, leaning upon his elbow, looking down. But Dawn starts from
her couch, as though some painful summons had reached her, sunk in dreamless sleep, and called
her forth to suffer. Her waking to consciousness is like that of one who has been drowned,
and who finds the return to life agony. Before her eyes, seen even through the mists of slumber,
are the ruin and the shame of Italy. Opposite lies Night, so sorrowful, so utterly absorbed
in darkness and the shade of death, that to shake off that everlasting lethargy seems impossible.
Yet she is not dead. If we raise our voices, she too will stretch her limbs, and, like her
sister, shudder into sensibility with sighs. Only we must not wake her; for he who fashioned
her has told us that her sleep of stone is great good fortune. Both of these women are large
and brawny, unlike the Fates of Pheidias, in their muscular maturity. The burden of Michelangelo's
thought was too tremendous to be borne by virginal and graceful beings. He had to make women
no less capable of suffering, no less world-wearied, than his country.

"Standing before these statues, we do not cry, How beautiful! We murmur, How terrible, how
grand! Yet, after long gazing, we find them gifted with beauty beyond grace. In each of them
there is a palpitating thought, torn from the artist's soul and crystallised in marble. It
has been said that architecture is petrified music. In the Sacristy of S. Lorenzo we feel impelled
to remember phrases of Beethoven. Each of these statues becomes for us a passion, fit for musical
expression, but turned like Niobe to stone. They have the intellectual vagueness, the emotional
certainty, that belong to the motives of a symphony. In their allegories, left without a key,
sculpture has passed beyond her old domain of placid concrete form. The anguish of intolerable
emotion, the quickening of the consciousness to a sense of suffering, the acceptance of the
inevitable, the strife of the soul with destiny, the burden and the passion of mankind:--that
is what they contain in their cold chisel-tortured marble. It is open to critics of the school
of Lessing to object that here is the suicide of sculpture. It is easy to remark that those
strained postures and writhen limbs may have perverted the taste of lesser craftsmen. Yet if
Michelangelo was called to carve Medicean statues after the sack of Rome and the fall of Florence--if
he was obliged in sober sadness to make sculpture a fit language for his sorrow-laden heart--how
could he have wrought more truthfully than this? To imitate him without sharing his emotion
or comprehending his thoughts, as the soulless artists of the decadence attempted, was without
all doubt a grievous error. Surely also we may regret, not without reason, that in the evil
days upon which he had fallen, the fair antique Heiterkeit and Allgemeinheit were beyond his
reach."

That this regret is not wholly sentimental may be proved, I think, by an exchange of verses,
which we owe to Vasari's literary sagacity. He tells us that when the statue of the Night was
opened to the public view, it drew forth the following quatrain from an author unknown to himself
by name:--

  The Night thou seest here, posed gracefully
  In act of slumber, was by an Angel wrought
  Out of this stone; sleeping, with life she's fraught:
  Wake her, incredulous wight; she'll speak to thee.

Michelangelo would have none of these academical conceits and compliments. He replied in four
verses, which show well enough what thoughts were in his brain when he composed the nightmare-burdened,
heavy-sleeping women:

  Dear is my sleep, but more to be mere stone,
  So long as ruin and dishonour reign:
  To hear naught, to feel naught, is my great gain;
  Then wake me not; speak in an undertone.

CHAPTER XI

I

After the death of Clement VII., Michelangelo never returned to reside for any length of time
at Florence. The rest of his life was spent in Rome, and he fell almost immediately under the
kind but somewhat arbitrary patronage of Alessandro Farnese, who succeeded to the Papal chair
in October 1534, with the title of Paul III.

One of the last acts of Clement's life had been to superintend the second contract with the
heirs of Julius, by which Michelangelo undertook to finish the tomb upon a reduced scale within
the space of three years. He was allowed to come to Rome and work there during four months
annually. Paul, however, asserted his authority by upsetting these arrangements and virtually
cancelling the contract.

"In the meanwhile," writes Condivi, "Pope Clement died, and Paul III. sent for him, and requested
him to enter his service. Michelangelo saw at once that he would be interrupted in his work
upon the Tomb of Julius. So he told Paul that he was not his own master, being bound to the
Duke of Urbino until the monument was finished. The Pope grew angry, and exclaimed: 'It is
thirty years that I have cherished this desire, and now that I am Pope, may I not indulge it?
Where is the contract? I mean to tear it up.' Michelangelo, finding himself reduced to these
straits, almost resolved to leave Rome and take refuge in the Genoese, at an abbey held by
the Bishop of Aleria, who had been a creature of Julius, and was much attached to him. He hoped
that the neighbourhood of the Carrara quarries, and the facility of transporting marbles by
sea, would help him to complete his engagements. He also thought of settling at Urbino, which
he had previously selected as a tranquil retreat, and where he expected to be well received
for the sake of Pope Julius. Some months earlier, he even sent a man of his to buy a house
and land there. Still he dreaded the greatness of the Pontiff, as indeed he had good cause
to do; and for this reason he abandoned the idea of quitting Rome, hoping to pacify his Holiness
with fair words.

"The Pope, however, stuck to his opinion; and one day he visited Michelangelo at his house,
attended by eight or ten Cardinals. He first of all inspected the cartoon prepared in Clement's
reign for the great work of the Sistine; then the statues for the tomb, and everything in detail.
The most reverend Cardinal of Mantua, standing before the statue of Moses, cried out: 'That
piece alone is sufficient to do honour to the monument of Julius.' Pope Paul, having gone through
the whole workshop, renewed his request that Michelangelo should enter his service; and when
the latter still resisted, he clinched the matter by saying: 'I will provide that the Duke
of Urbino shall be satisfied with three statues from your hand, and the remaining three shall
be assigned to some other sculptor.' Accordingly, he settled on the terms of a new contract
with the agents of the Duke, which were confirmed by his Excellency, who did not care to displeasure
the Pope. Michelangelo, albeit he was now relieved from the obligation of paying for the three
statues, preferred to take this cost upon himself, and deposited 1580 ducats for the purpose.
And so the Tragedy of the Tomb came at last to an end. This may now be seen at S. Pietro ad
Vincula; and though, truth to tell, it is but a mutilated and botched-up remnant of Michelangelo's
original design, the monument is still the finest to be found in Rome, and perhaps elsewhere
in the world, if only for the three statues finished by the hand of the great master."

II

In this account, Condivi, has condensed the events of seven years. The third and last contract
with the heirs of Julius was not ratified until the autumn of 1542, nor was the tomb erected
much before the year 1550. We shall see that the tragedy still cost its hero many anxious days
during this period.

Paul III., having obtained his object, issued a brief, whereby he appointed Michelangelo chief
architect, sculptor, and painter at the Vatican. The instrument is dated September 1, 1535,
and the terms with which it describes the master's eminence in the three arts are highly flattering.
Allusion is directly made to the fresco of the Last Judgment, which may therefore have been
begun about this date. Michelangelo was enrolled as member of the Pontifical household, with
a permanent pension of 1200 golden crowns, to be raised in part on the revenues accruing from
a ferry across the Po at Piacenza. He did not, however, obtain possession of this ferry until
1537, and the benefice proved so unremunerative that it was exchanged for a little post in
the Chancery at Rimini.

When Michelangelo began to work again in the Sistine Chapel, the wall above the altar was adorned
with three great sacred subjects by the hand of Pietro Perugino. In the central fresco of the
Assumption Perugino introduced a portrait of Sixtus IV. kneeling in adoration before the ascending
Madonna. The side panels were devoted to the Nativity and the finding of Moses. In what condition
Michelangelo found these frescoes before the painting of the Last Judgment we do not know.
Vasari says that he caused the wall to be rebuilt with well-baked carefully selected bricks,
and sloped inwards so that the top projected half a cubit from the bottom. This was intended
to secure the picture from dust. Vasari also relates that Sebastiano del Piombo, acting on
his own responsibility, prepared this wall with a ground for oil-colours, hoping to be employed
by Michelangelo, but that the latter had it removed, preferring the orthodox method of fresco-painting.
The story, as it stands, is not very probable; yet we may perhaps conjecture that, before deciding
on the system to be adopted for his great work, Buonarroti thought fit to make experiments
in several surfaces. The painters of that period, as is proved by Sebastiano's practice, by
Lionardo da Vinci's unfortunate innovations at Florence, and by the experiments of Raffaello's
pupils in the hall of Constantine, not unfrequently invented methods for mural decoration which
should afford the glow and richness of oil-colouring. Michelangelo may even have proposed at
one time to intrust a large portion of his fresco to Sebastiano's executive skill, and afterwards
have found the same difficulties in collaboration which reduced him to the necessity of painting
the Sistine vault in solitude.

Be that as it may, when the doors of the chapel once closed behind the master, we hear nothing
whatsoever about his doings till they opened again on Christmas Day in 1541. The reticence
of Michelangelo regarding his own works is one of the most trying things about him. It is true
indeed that his correspondence between 1534 and 1541 almost entirely fails; still, had it been
abundant, we should probably have possessed but dry and laconic references to matters connected
with the business of his art.

He must have been fully occupied on the Last Judgment during 1536 and 1537. Paul III. was still
in correspondence with the Duke of Urbino, who showed himself not only willing to meet the
Pope's wishes with regard to the Tomb of Julius, but also very well disposed toward the sculptor.
In July 1537, Hieronimo Staccoli wrote to the Duke of Camerino about a silver salt-cellar which
Michelangelo had designed at his request. This prince, Guidobaldo della Rovere, when he afterwards
succeeded to the Duchy of Urbino, sent a really warm-hearted despatch to his "dearest Messer
Michelangelo." He begins by saying that, though he still cherishes the strongest wish to see
the monument of his uncle completed, he does not like to interrupt the fresco in the Sistine
Chapel, upon which his Holiness has set his heart. He thoroughly trusts in Michelangelo's loyalty,
and is assured that his desire to finish the tomb, for the honour of his former patron's memory,
is keen and sincere. Therefore, he hopes that when the picture of the Last Judgment is terminated,
the work will be resumed and carried to a prosperous conclusion. In the meantime, let Buonarroti
attend to his health, and not put everything again to peril by overstraining his energies.

Signer Gotti quotes a Papal brief, issued on the 18th of September 1537, in which the history
of the Tomb of Julius up to date is set forth, and Michelangelo's obligations toward the princes
of Urbino are recited. It then proceeds to declare that Clement VII. ordered him to paint the
great wall of the Sistine, and that Paul desires this work to be carried forward with all possible
despatch. He therefore lets it be publicly known that Michelangelo has not failed to perform
his engagements in the matter of the tomb through any fault or action of his own, but by the
express command of his Holiness. Finally, he discharges him and his heirs from all liabilities,
pecuniary or other, to which he may appear exposed by the unfulfilled contracts.

III

While thus engaged upon his fresco, Michelangelo received a letter, dated Venice, September
15, 1537, from that rogue of genius, Pietro Aretino. It opens in the strain of hyperbolical
compliment and florid rhetoric which Aretino affected when he chose to flatter. The man, however,
was an admirable stylist, the inventor of a new epistolary manner. Like a volcano, his mind
blazed with wit, and buried sound sense beneath the scoriae and ashes it belched forth. Gifted
with a natural feeling for rhetorical contrast, he knew the effect of some simple and impressive
sentence, placed like a gem of value in the midst of gimcrack conceits. Thus: "I should not
venture to address you, had not my name, accepted by the ears of every prince in Europe, outworn
much of its native indignity. And it is but meet that that I should approach you with this
reverence; for the world has many kings, and one only Michelangelo.

"Strange miracle, that Nature, who cannot place aught so high but that you explore it with
your art, should be impotent to stamp upon her works that majesty which she contains within
herself, the immense power of your style and your chisel! Wherefore, when we gaze on you, we
regret no longer that we may not meet with Pheidias, Apelles, or Vitruvius, whose spirits were
the shadow of your spirit." He piles the panegyric up to its climax, by adding it is fortunate
for those great artists of antiquity that their masterpieces cannot be compared with Michelangelo's,
since, "being arraigned before the tribunal of our eyes, we should perforce proclaim you unique
as sculptor, unique as painter, and as architect unique." After the blare of this exordium,
Aretino settles down to the real business of his letter, and communicates his own views regarding
the Last Judgment, which he hears that the supreme master of all arts is engaged in depicting.
"Who would not quake with terror while dipping his brush into the dreadful theme? I behold
Anti-christ in the midst of thronging multitudes, with an aspect such as only you could limn.
I behold affright upon the forehead of the living; I see the signs of the extinction of the
sun, the moon, the stars; I see the breath of life exhaling from the elements; I see Nature
abandoned and apart, reduced to barrenness, crouching in her decrèpitude; I see Time sapless
and trembling, for his end has come, and he is seated on an arid throne; and while I hear the
trumpets of the angels with their thunder shake the hearts of all, I see both Life and Death
convulsed with horrible confusion, the one striving to resuscitate the dead, the other using
all his might to slay the living; I see Hope and Despair guiding the squadrons of the good
and the cohorts of the wicked; I see the theatre of clouds, blazing with rays that issue from
the purest fires of heaven, upon which among his hosts Christ sits, ringed round with splendours
and with terrors; I see the radiance of his face, coruscating flames of light both glad and
awful, filling the blest with joy, the damned with fear intolerable. Then I behold the satellites
of the abyss, who with horrid gestures, to the glory of the saints and martyrs, deride Caesar
and the Alexanders; for it is one thing to have trampled on the world, but more to have conquered
self. I see Fame, with her crowns and palms trodden under foot, cast out among the wheels of
her own chariots. And to conclude all, I see the dread sentence issue from the mouth of the
Son of God. I see it in the form of two darts, the one of salvation, the other of damnation;
and as they hustle down, I hear the fury of its onset shock the elemental frame of things,
and, with the roar of thunderings and voices, smash the universal scheme to fragments. I see
the vault of ether merged in gloom, illuminated only by the lights of Paradise and the furnaces
of hell. My thoughts, excited by this vision of the day of Doom, whisper: 'If we quake in terror
before the handiwork of Buonarroti, how shall we shake and shrink affrighted when He who shall
judge passes sentence on our souls?'"

This description of the Last Day, in which it is more than doubtful whether a man like Aretino
had any sincere faith, possesses considerable literary interest. In the first place, it is
curious as coming from one who lived on terms of closest intimacy with painters, and who certainly
appreciated art; for this reason, that nothing less pictorial than the images evoked could
be invented. Then, again, in the first half of the sixteenth century it anticipated the rhetoric
of the barocco period--the eloquence of seventeenth-century divines, Dutch poets, Jesuit pulpiteers.
Aretino's originality consisted in his precocious divination of a whole new age of taste and
style, which was destined to supersede the purer graces of the Renaissance.

The letter ends with an assurance that if anything could persuade him to break a resolution
he had formed, and to revisit Rome, it would be his great anxiety to view the Last Judgment
of the Sistine Chapel with his own eyes. Michelangelo sent an answer which may be cited as
an example of his peculiar irony. Under the form of elaborate compliment it conceals the scorn
he must have conceived for Aretino and his insolent advice. Yet he knew how dangerous the man
could be, and felt obliged to humour him.

"Magnificent Messer Pietro, my lord and brother,--The receipt of your letter gave me both joy
and sorrow. I rejoiced exceedingly, since it came from you, who are without peer in all the
world for talent. Yet at the same time I grieved, inasmuch as, having finished a large part
of the fresco, I cannot realise your conception, which is so complete, that if the Day of Judgment
had come, and you had been present and seen it with your eyes, your words could not have described
it better. Now, touching an answer to my letter, I reply that I not only desire it, but I entreat
you to write one, seeing that kings and emperors esteem it the highest favour to be mentioned
by your pen. Meanwhile, if I have anything that you would like, I offer it with all my heart.
In conclusion, do not break your resolve of never revisiting Rome on account of the picture
I am painting, for this would be too much."

Aretino's real object was to wheedle some priceless sketch or drawing out of the great master.
This appears from a second letter written by him on the 20th of January 1538. "Does not my
devotion deserve that I should receive from you, the prince of sculpture and of painting, one
of those cartoons which you fling into the fire, to the end that during life I may enjoy it,
and in death carry it with me to the tomb?" After all, we must give Aretino credit for genuine
feelings of admiration toward illustrious artists like Titian, Sansovino, and Michelangelo.
Writing many years after the date of these letters, when he has seen an engraving of the Last
Judgment, he uses terms, extravagant indeed, but apparently sincere, about its grandeur of
design. Then he repeats his request for a drawing. "Why will you not repay my devotion to your
divine qualities by the gift of some scrap of a drawing, the least valuable in your eyes? I
should certainly esteem two strokes of the chalk upon a piece of paper more than all the cups
and chains which all the kings and princes gave me." It seems that Michelangelo continued to
correspond with him, and that Benvenuto Cellini took part in their exchange of letters. But
no drawings were sent; and in course of time the ruffian got the better of the virtuoso in
Aretino's rapacious nature. Without ceasing to fawn and flatter Michelangelo, he sought occasion
to damage his reputation. Thus we find him writing in January 1546 to the engraver Enea Vico,
bestowing high praise upon a copper-plate which a certain Bazzacco had made from the Last Judgment,
but criticising the picture as "licentious and likely to cause scandal with the Lutherans,
by reason of its immodest exposure of the nakedness of persons of both sexes in heaven and
hell." It is not clear what Aretino expected from Enea Vico. A reference to the Duke of Florence
seems to indicate that he wished to arouse suspicions among great and influential persons regarding
the religious and moral quality of Michelangelo's work.

This malevolent temper burst out at last in one of the most remarkable letters we possess of
his. It was obviously intended to hurt and insult Michelangelo as much as lay within his power
of innuendo and direct abuse. The invective offers so many points of interest with regard to
both men, that I shall not hesitate to translate it here in full.

"Sir, when I inspected the complete sketch of the whole of your Last Judgment, I arrived at
recognising the eminent graciousness of Raffaello in its agreeable beauty of invention.

"Meanwhile, as a baptized Christian, I blush before the license, so forbidden to man's intellect,
which you have used in expressing ideas connected with the highest aims and final ends to which
our faith aspires. So, then, that Michelangelo stupendous in his fame, that Michelangelo renowned
for prudence, that Michelangelo whom all admire, has chosen to display to the whole world an
impiety of irreligion only equalled by the perfection of his painting! Is it possible that
you, who, since you are divine, do not condescend to consort with human beings, have done this
in the greatest temple built to God, upon the highest altar raised to Christ, in the most sacred
chapel upon earth, where the mighty hinges of the Church, the venerable priests of our religion,
the Vicar of Christ, with solemn ceremonies and holy prayers, confess, contemplate, and adore
his body, his blood, and his flesh?

"If it were not infamous to introduce the comparison, I would plume myself upon my virtue when
I wrote La Nanna. I would demonstrate the superiority of my reserve to your indiscretion, seeing
that I, while handling themes lascivious and immodest, use language comely and decorous, speak
in terms beyond reproach and inoffensive to chaste ears. You, on the contrary, presenting so
awful a subject, exhibit saints and angels, these without earthly decency, and those without
celestial honours.

"The pagans, when they modelled a Diana, gave her clothes; when they made a naked Venus, hid
the parts which are not shown with the hand of modesty. And here there comes a Christian, who,
because he rates art higher than the faith, deems it a royal spectacle to portray martyrs and
virgins in improper attitudes, to show men dragged down by their shame, before which things
houses of ill-fame would shut the eyes in order not to see them. Your art would be at home
in some voluptuous bagnio, certainly not in the highest chapel of the world. Less criminal
were it if you were an infidel, than, being a believer, thus to sap the faith of others. Up
to the present time the splendour of such audacious marvels hath not gone unpunished; for their
very superexcellence is the death of your good name. Restore them to repute by turning the
indecent parts of the damned to flames, and those of the blessed to sunbeams; or imitate the
modesty of Florence, who hides your David's shame beneath some gilded leaves. And yet that
statue is exposed upon a public square, not in a consecrated chapel.

"As I wish that God may pardon you, I do not write this out of any resentment for the things
I begged of you. In truth, if you had sent me what you promised, you would only have been doing
what you ought to have desired most eagerly to do in your own interest; for this act of courtesy
would silence the envious tongues which say that only certain Gerards and Thomases dispose of them.

"Well, if the treasure bequeathed you by Pope Julius, in order that you might deposit his ashes
in an urn of your own carving, was not enough to make you keep your plighted word, what can
I expect from you? It is not your ingratitude, your avarice, great painter, but the grace and
merit of the Supreme Shepherd, which decide his fame. God wills that Julius should live renowned
for ever in a simple tomb, inurned in his own merits, and not in some proud monument dependent
on your genius. Meantime, your failure to discharge your obligations is reckoned to you as
an act of thieving.

"Our souls need the tranquil emotions of piety more than the lively impressions of plastic
art. May God, then, inspire his Holiness Paul with the same thoughts as he instilled into Gregory
of blessed memory, who rather chose to despoil Rome of the proud statues of the Pagan deities
than to let their magnificence deprive the humbler images of the saints of the devotion of
the people.

"Lastly, when you set about composing your picture of the universe and hell and heaven, if
you had steeped your heart with those suggestions of glory, of honour, and of terror proper
to the theme which I sketched out and offered to you in the letter I wrote you and the whole
world reads, I venture to assert that not only would nature and all kind influences cease to
regret the illustrious talents they endowed you with, and which to-day render you, by virtue
of your art, an image of the marvellous: but Providence, who sees all things, would herself
continue to watch over such a masterpiece, so long as order lasts in her government of the
hemispheres.

                                           "Your servant,
                                           "The Aretine.

"Now that I have blown off some of the rage I feel against you for the cruelty you used to
my devotion, and have taught you to see that, while you may be divine, I am not made of water,
I bid you tear up this letter, for I have done the like, and do not forget that I am one to
whose epistles kings and emperors reply.

"To the great Michelangelo Buonarroti in Rome."

The malignancy of this letter is only equalled by its stylistic ingenuity. Aretino used every
means he could devise to wound and irritate a sensitive nature. The allusion to Raffaello,
the comparison of his own pornographic dialogues with the Last Judgment in the Sistine, the
covert hint that folk gossiped about Michelangelo's relations to young men, his sneers at the
great man's exclusiveness, his cruel insinuations with regard to the Tomb of Julius, his devout
hope that Paul will destroy the fresco, and the impudent eulogy of his precious letter on the
Last Day, were all nicely calculated to annoy. Whether the missive was duly received by Buonarroti
we do not know. Gaye asserts that it appears to have been sent through the post. He discovered
it in the Archives of the Strozzi Palace.

The virtuous Pietro Aretino was not the only one to be scandalised by the nudities of the Last
Judgment; and indeed it must be allowed that when Michelangelo treated such a subject in such
a manner, he was pushing the principle of art for art's sake to its extremity. One of the most
popular stories told about this work shows that it early began to create a scandal. When it
was three fourths finished, Pope Paul went to see the fresco, attended by Messer Biagio da
Cesena, his Master of the Ceremonies. On being asked his opinion of the painting, Messer Biagio
replied that he thought it highly improper to expose so many naked figures in a sacred picture,
and that it was more fit for a place of debauchery than for the Pope's chapel. Michelangelo,
nettled by this, drew the prelate's portrait to the life, and placed him in hell with horns
on his head and a serpent twisted round his loins. Messer Biagio, finding himself in this plight,
and being no doubt laughed at by his friends, complained to the Pope, who answered that he
could do nothing to help him. "Had the painter sent you to Purgatory, I would have used my
best efforts to get you released; but I exercise no influence in hell; ubi nulla est redemptio."
Before Michelangelo's death, his follower, Daniele da Volterra, was employed to provide draperies
for the most obnoxious figures, and won thereby the name of Il Braghettone, or the breeches-maker.
Paul IV. gave the painter this commission, having previously consulted Buonarroti on the subject.
The latter is said to have replied to the Pope's messenger: "Tell his Holiness that this is
a small matter, and can easily be set straight. Let him look to setting the world in order:
to reform a picture costs no great trouble." Later on, during the Pontificate of Pio V., a
master named Girolamo da Fano continued the process begun by Daniele da Volterra. As a necessary
consequence of this tribute to modesty, the scheme of Michelangelo's colouring and the balance
of his masses have been irretrievably damaged.

IV

Vasari says that not very long before the Last Judgment was finished, Michelangelo fell from
the scaffolding, and seriously hurt his leg. The pain he suffered and his melancholy made him
shut himself up at home, where he refused to be treated by a doctor. There was a Florentine
physician in Rome, however, of capricious humour, who admired the arts, and felt a real affection
for Buonarroti. This man contrived to creep into the house by some privy entrance, and roamed
about it till he found the master. He then insisted upon remaining there on watch and guard
until he had effected a complete cure. The name of this excellent friend, famous for his skill
and science in those days, was Baccio Rontini.

After his recovery Michelangelo returned to work, and finished the Last Judgment in a few months.
It was exposed to the public on Christmas Day in 1541.

Time, negligence, and outrage, the dust of centuries, the burned papers of successive conclaves,
the smoke of altar-candles, the hammers and the hangings of upholsterers, the brush of the
breeches-maker and restorer, have so dealt with the Last Judgment that it is almost impossible
to do it justice now. What Michelangelo intended by his scheme of colour is entirely lost.
Not only did Daniele da Volterra, an execrable colourist, dab vividly tinted patches upon the
modulated harmonies of flesh-tones painted by the master; but the whole surface has sunk into
a bluish fog, deepening to something like lamp-black around the altar. Nevertheless, in its
composition the fresco may still be studied; and after due inspection, aided by photographic
reproductions of each portion, we are not unable to understand the enthusiasm which so nobly
and profoundly planned a work of art aroused among contemporaries.

It has sometimes been asserted that this enormous painting, the largest and most comprehensive
in the world, is a tempest of contending forms, a hurly-burly of floating, falling, soaring,
and descending figures. Nothing can be more opposed to the truth. Michelangelo was sixty-six
years of age when he laid his brush down at the end of the gigantic task. He had long outlived
the spontaneity of youthful ardour. His experience through half a century in the planning of
monuments, the painting of the Sistine vault, the designing of façades and sacristies and libraries,
had developed the architectonic sense which was always powerful in his conceptive faculty.
Consequently, we are not surprised to find that, intricate and confused as the scheme may appear
to an unpractised eye, it is in reality a design of mathematical severity, divided into four
bands or planes of grouping. The wall, since it occupies one entire end of a long high building,
is naturally less broad than lofty. The pictorial divisions are therefore horizontal in the
main, though so combined and varied as to produce the effect of multiplied curves, balancing
and antiphonally inverting their lines of sinuosity. The pendentive upon which the prophet
Jonah sits, descends and breaks the surface at the top, leaving a semicircular compartment
on each side of its corbel. Michelangelo filled these upper spaces with two groups of wrestling
angels, the one bearing a huge cross, the other a column, in the air. The cross and whipping-post
are the chief emblems of Christ's Passion. The crown of thorns is also there, the sponge, the
ladder, and the nails. It is with no merciful intent that these signs of our Lord's suffering
are thus exhibited. Demonic angels, tumbling on clouds like Leviathans, hurl them to and fro
in brutal wrath above the crowd of souls, as though to demonstrate the justice of damnation.
In spite of a God's pain and shameful death, mankind has gone on sinning. The Judge is what
the crimes of the world and Italy have made him. Immediately below the corbel, and well detached
from the squadrons of attendant saints, Christ rises from His throne. His face is turned in
the direction of the damned, His right hand is lifted as though loaded with thunderbolts for
their annihilation. He is a ponderous young athlete; rather say a mass of hypertrophied muscles,
with the features of a vulgarised Apollo. The Virgin sits in a crouching attitude at His right
side, slightly averting her head, as though in painful expectation of the coming sentence.
The saints and martyrs who surround Christ and His Mother, while forming one of the chief planes
in the composition, are arranged in four unequal groups of subtle and surprising intricacy.
All bear the emblems of their cruel deaths, and shake them in the sight of Christ as though
appealing to His judgment-seat. It has been charitably suggested that they intend to supplicate
for mercy. I cannot, however, resist the impression that they are really demanding rigid justice.
S. Bartholomew flourishes his flaying-knife and dripping skin with a glare of menace. S. Catherine
struggles to raise her broken wheel. S. Sebastian frowns down on hell with a sheaf of arrows
quivering in his stalwart arm. The saws, the carding-combs, the crosses, and the grid-irons,
all subserve the same purpose of reminding Christ that, if He does not damn the wicked, confessors
will have died with Him in vain. It is singular that, while Michelangelo depicted so many attitudes
of expectation, eagerness, anxiety, and astonishment in the blest, he has given to none of
them the expression of gratitude, or love, or sympathy, or shrinking awe. Men and women, old
and young alike, are human beings of Herculean build. Paradise, according to Buonarroti's conception,
was not meant for what is graceful, lovely, original, and tender. The hosts of heaven are adult
and over-developed gymnasts. Yet, while we record these impressions, it would be unfair to
neglect the spiritual beauty of some souls embracing after long separation in the grave, with
folding arms, and clasping hands, and clinging lips. While painting these, Michelangelo thought
peradventure of his father and his brother.

The two planes which I have attempted to describe occupy the upper and the larger portion of
the composition. The third in order is made up of three masses. In the middle floats a band
of Titanic cherubs, blowing their long trumpets over earth and sea to wake the dead. Dramatically,
nothing can be finer than the strained energy and superhuman force of these superb creatures.
Their attitudes compel our imagination to hear the crashing thunders of the trump of doom.
To the left of the spectator are souls ascending to be judged, some floating through vague
ether, enwrapped with grave-clothes, others assisted by descending saints and angels, who reach
a hand, a rosary, to help the still gross spirit in its flight. To the right are the condemned,
sinking downwards to their place of torment, spurned by seraphs, cuffed by angelic grooms,
dragged by demons, hurling, howling, huddled in a mass of horror. It is just here, and still
yet farther down, that Michelangelo put forth all his power as a master of expression. While
the blessed display nothing which is truly proper to their state of holiness and everlasting
peace, the damned appear in every realistic aspect of most stringent agony and terror. The
colossal forms of flesh with which the multitudes of saved and damned are equally endowed,
befit that extremity of physical and mental anguish more than they suit the serenity of bliss
eternal. There is a wretch, twined round with fiends, gazing straight before him as he sinks;
one half of his face is buried in his hand, the other fixed in a stony spasm of despair, foreshadowing
perpetuity of hell. Nothing could express with sublimity of a higher order the sense of irremediable
loss, eternal pain, a future endless without hope, than the rigid dignity of this not ignoble
sinner's dread. Just below is the place to which the doomed are sinking. Michelangelo reverted
to Dante for the symbolism chosen to portray hell. Charon, the demon, with eyes of burning
coal, compels a crowd of spirits in his ferryboat. They land and are received by devils, who
drag them before Minos, judge of the infernal regions. He towers at the extreme right end of
the fresco, indicating that the nether regions yawn infinitely deep, beyond our ken; just as
the angels above Christ suggest a region of light and glory, extending upward through illimitable
space. The scene of judgment on which attention is concentrated forms but an episode in the
universal, sempiternal scheme of things. Balancing hell, on the left hand of the spectator,
is brute earth, the grave, the forming and the swallowing clay, out of which souls, not yet
acquitted or condemned, emerge with difficulty, in varied forms of skeletons or corpses, slowly
thawing into life eternal.

Vasari, in his description of the Last Judgment, seized upon what after all endures as the
most salient aspect of this puzzling work, at once so fascinating and so repellent. "It is
obvious," he says, "that the peerless painter did not aim at anything but the portrayal of
the human body in perfect proportions and most varied attitudes, together with the passions
and affections of the soul. That was enough for him, and here he has no equal. He wanted to
exhibit the grand style: consummate draughtsmanship in the nude, mastery over all problems
of design. He concentrated his power upon the human form, attending to that alone, and neglecting
all subsidiary things, as charm of colour, capricious inventions, delicate devices and novelties
of fancy." Vasari might have added that Michelangelo also neglected what ought to have been
a main object of his art: convincing eloquence, the solemnity proper to his theme, spirituality
of earthly grossness quit. As a collection of athletic nudes in all conceivable postures of
rest and action, of foreshortening, of suggested movement, the Last Judgment remains a stupendous
miracle. Nor has the aged master lost his cunning for the portrayal of divinely simple faces,
superb limbs, masculine beauty, in the ideal persons of young men. The picture, when we dwell
long enough upon its details, emerges into prominence, moreover, as indubitably awe-inspiring,
terrifying, dreadful in its poignant expression of wrath, retaliation, thirst for vengeance,
cruelty, and helpless horror. But the supreme point even of Doomsday, of the Dies Irae, has
not been seized. We do not hear the still small voice of pathos and of human hope which thrills
through Thomas a Celano's hymn:--

  Quaerens me sedisti lassus,
  Redemisti crucem passus:
  Tantus labor non sit cassus.

The note is one of sustained menace and terror, and the total scheme of congregated forms might
be compared to a sense-deafening solo on a trombone. While saying this, we must remember that
it was the constant impulse of Michelangelo to seize one moment only, and what he deemed the
most decisive moment, in the theme he had to develop. Having selected the instant of time at
which Christ, half risen from his Judgment-seat of cloud, raises an omnific hand to curse,
the master caused each fibre of his complex composition to thrill with the tremendous passion
of that coming sentence. The long series of designs for Crucifixions, Depositions from the
Cross, and Pietàs which we possess, all of them belonging to a period of his life not much
later than 1541, prove that his nature was quite as sensitive to pathos as to terror; only,
it was not in him to attempt a combination of terror and pathos.

"He aimed at the portrayal of the human body. He wanted to exhibit the grand style." So says
Vasari, and Vasari is partly right. But we must not fall into the paradox, so perversely maintained
by Ruskin in his lecture on Tintoretto and Michelangelo, that the latter was a cold and heartless
artist, caring chiefly for the display of technical skill and anatomical science. Partial and
painful as we may find the meaning of the Last Judgment, that meaning has been only too powerfully
and personally felt. The denunciations of the prophets, the woes of the Apocalypse, the invectives
of Savonarola, the tragedies of Italian history, the sense of present and indwelling sin, storm
through and through it. Technically, the masterpiece bears signs of fatigue and discontent,
in spite of its extraordinary vigour of conception and execution. The man was old and tired,
thwarted in his wishes and oppressed with troubles. His very science had become more formal,
his types more arid and schematic, than they used to be. The thrilling life, the divine afflatus,
of the Sistine vault have passed out of the Last Judgment. Wholly admirable, unrivalled, and
unequalled by any other human work upon a similar scale as this fresco may be in its command
over the varied resources of the human body, it does not strike our mind as the production
of a master glorying in carnal pride and mental insolence, but rather as that of one discomfited
and terrified, upon the point of losing heart.

Henri Beyle, jotting down his impressions in the Sistine Chapel, was reminded of the Grand
Army's flight after the burning of Moscow. "When, in our disastrous retreat from Russia, it
chanced that we were suddenly awakened in the middle of the dark night by an obstinate cannonading,
which at each moment seemed to gain in nearness, then all the forces of a man's nature gathered
close around his heart; he felt himself in the presence of fate, and having no attention left
for things of vulgar interest, he made himself ready to dispute his life with destiny. The
sight of Michelangelo's picture has brought back to my consciousness that almost forgotten
sensation." This is a piece of just and sympathetic criticism, and upon its note I am fain
to close.

V

It is probable that the fame of the Last Judgment spread rapidly abroad through Italy, and
that many visits to Rome were made for the purpose of inspecting it. Complimentary sonnets
must also have been addressed to the painter. I take it that Niccolò Martelli sent some poems
on the subject from Florence, for Michelangelo replied upon the 20th of January 1542 in the
following letter of singular modesty and urbane kindness:--

"I received from Messer Vincenzo Perini your letter with two sonnets and a madrigal. The letter
and the sonnet addressed to me are so marvellously fine, that if a man should find in them
anything to castigate, it would be impossible to castigate him as thoroughly as they are castigated.
It is true they praise me so much, that had I Paradise in my bosom, less of praise would suffice.
I perceive that you suppose me to be just what God wishes that I were. I am a poor man and
of little merit, who plod along in the art which God gave me, to lengthen out my life as far
as possible. Such as I am, I remain your servant and that of all the house of Martelli. I thank
you for your letter and the poems, but not as much as duty bids, for I cannot soar to such
heights of courtesy."

When the Last Judgment was finished, Michelangelo not unreasonably hoped that he might resume
his work upon the Tomb of Julius. But this was not to be. Antonio da San Gallo had just completed
the Chapel of the Holy Sacrament in the Vatican, which is known as the Cappella Paolina, and
the Pope resolved that its frescoes should be painted by Buonarroti. The Duke of Urbino, yielding
to his wishes, wrote to Michelangelo upon the 6th of March 1542, saying that he should be quite
satisfied if the three statues by his hand, including the Moses, were assigned to the tomb,
the execution of the rest being left to competent workmen under his direction.

In effect, we possess documents proving that the tomb was consigned to several masters during
this year, 1542. The first is a contract dated February 27, whereby Raffaello da Montelupo
undertakes to finish three statues, two of these being the Active Life and the Contemplative.
The second is a contract dated May 16, in which Michelangelo assigns the architectural and
ornamental portion of the monument conjointly to Giovanni de' Marchesi and Francesco d' Amadore,
called Urbino, providing that differences which may arise between them shall be referred to
Donato Giannotti. There is a third contract, under date June 1, about the same work intrusted
to the same two craftsmen, prescribing details with more exactitude. It turned out that the
apprehension of disagreement between the masters about the division of their labour was not
unfounded, for Michelangelo wrote twice in July to his friend Luigi del Riccio, complaining
bitterly of their dissensions, and saying that he has lost two months in these trifles. He
adds that one of them is covetous, the other mad, and he fears their quarrel may end in wounds
or murder. The matter disturbs his mind greatly, chiefly on account of Urbino, because he has
brought him up, and also because of the time wasted over "their ignorance and bestial stupidity."
The dispute was finally settled by the intervention of three master-masons (acting severally
for Michelangelo, Urbino, and Giovanni), who valued the respective portions of the work.

I must interrupt this narrative of the tomb to explain who some of the persons just mentioned
were, and how they came to be connected with Buonarroti. Donato Giannotti was the famous writer
upon political and literary topics, who, after playing a conspicuous part in the revolution
of Florence against the Medici, now lived in exile at Rome. His dialogues on Dante, and Francesco
d'Olanda's account of the meetings at S. Silvestro, prove that he formed a member of that little
circle which included Michelangelo and Vittoria Colonna. Luigi del Riccio was a Florentine
merchant, settled in the banking-house of the Strozzi at Rome. For many years he acted as Michelangelo's
man of business; but their friendship was close and warm in many other ways. They were drawn
together by a common love of poetry, and by the charm of a rarely gifted youth called Cecchino
dei Bracci. Urbino was the great sculptor's servant and man of all work, the last and best
of that series, which included Stefano Miniatore, Pietro Urbino, Antonio Mini. Michelangelo
made Urbino's fortune, mourned his death, and undertook the guardianship of his children, as
will appear in due course. All through his life the great sculptor was dependent upon some
trusted servant, to whom he became personally attached, and who did not always repay his kindness
with gratitude. After Urbino's death, Ascanio Condivi filled a similar post, and to this circumstance
we owe the most precious of our contemporary biographies.

Our most important document with regard to the Tomb of Julius is an elaborate petition addressed
by Michelangelo to Paul III. upon the 20th of July. It begins by referring to the contract
of April 18, 1532, and proceeds to state that the Pope's new commission for the Cappella Paolina
has interfered once more with the fulfilment of the sculptor's engagements. Then it recites
the terms suggested by the Duke of Urbino in his letter of March 6, 1542, according to which
three of the statues of the tomb may be assigned to capable craftsmen, while the other three,
including the Moses, will have to be finished by Michelangelo himself. Raffaello da Montelupo
has already undertaken the Madonna and Child, a Prophet, and a Sibyl. Giovanni de' Marchese
and Francesco da Urbino are at work upon the architecture. It remains for Michelangelo to furnish
the Moses and two Captives, all three of which are nearly completed. The Captives, however,
were designed for a much larger monument, and will not suit the present scheme. Accordingly,
he has blocked out two other figures, representing the Active and Contemplative Life. But even
these he is unable to finish, since the painting of the chapel absorbs his time and energy.
He therefore prays the Pope to use his influence with the Duke of Urbino, so that he may be
henceforward wholly and absolutely freed from all obligations in the matter of the tomb. The
Moses he can deliver in a state of perfection, but he wishes to assign the Active and Contemplative
Life to Raffaello or to any other sculptor who may be preferred by the Duke. Finally, he is
prepared to deposit a sum of 1200 crowns for the total costs, and to guarantee that the work
shall be efficiently executed in all its details.

It is curious that in this petition and elsewhere no mention is made of what might be considered
the most important portion of the tomb--namely, the portrait statue of Julius.

The document was presented to Messer Piero Giovanni Aliotti, Bishop of Forli, and keeper of
the wardrobe to Pope Paul. Accordingly, the final contract regarding the tomb was drawn up
and signed upon the 20th of August. I need not recapitulate its terms, for I have already printed
a summary of them in a former chapter of this work. Suffice it to say that Michelangelo was
at last released from all active responsibility with regard to the tomb, and that the vast
design of his early manhood now dwindled down to the Moses. To Raffaello da Montelupo was left
the completion of the remaining five statues.

This lamentable termination to the cherished scheme of his lifetime must have preyed upon Michelangelo's
spirits. The letters in which he alludes to it, after the contract had been signed, breathe
a spirit of more than usual fretfulness. Moreover, the Duke of Urbino now delayed to send his
ratification, by which alone the deed could become valid. In October, writing to Del Riccio,
Michelangelo complains that Messer Aliotti is urging him to begin painting in the chapel; but
the plaster is not yet fit to work on. Meanwhile, although he has deposited 1400 crowns, "which
would have kept him working for seven years, and would have enabled him to finish two tombs,"
the Duke's ratification does not come. "It is easy enough to see what that means without writing
it in words! Enough; for the loyalty of thirty-six years, and for having given myself of my
own free will to others, I deserve no better. Painting and sculpture, labour and good faith,
have been my ruin, and I go continually from bad to worse. Better would it have been for me
if I had set myself to making matches in my youth! I should not be in such distress of mind....
I will not remain under this burden, nor be vilified every day for a swindler by those who
have robbed my life and honour. Only death or the Pope can extricate me." It appears that at
this time the Duke of Urbino's agents were accusing him of having lent out moneys which he
had received on account for the execution of the monument. Then follows, in the same month
of October, that stormy letter to some prelate, which is one of the most weighty autobiographical
documents from the hand of Michelangelo in our possession.

"Monsignore,--Your lordship sends to tell me that I must begin to paint, and have no anxiety.
I answer that one paints with the brain and not with the hands; and he who has not his brains
at his command produces work that shames him. Therefore, until my business is settled, I can
do nothing good. The ratification of the last contract does not come. On the strength of the
other, made before Clement, I am daily stoned as though I had crucified Christ.... My whole
youth and manhood have been lost, tied down to this tomb.... I see multitudes with incomes
of 2000 or 3000 crowns lying in bed, while I with all my immense labour toil to grow poor....
I am not a thief and usurer, but a citizen of Florence, noble, the son of an honest man, and
do not come from Cagli." (These and similar outbursts of indignant passion scattered up and
down the epistle, show to what extent the sculptor's irritable nature had been exasperated
by calumnious reports. As he openly declares, he is being driven mad by pin-pricks. Then follows
the detailed history of his dealings with Julius, which, as I have already made copious use
of it, may here be given in outline.) "In the first year of his pontificate, Julius commissioned
me to make his tomb, and I stayed eight months at Carrara quarrying marbles and sending them
to the Piazza of S. Peter's, where I had my lodgings behind S. Caterina. Afterwards the Pope
decided not to build his tomb during his lifetime, and set me down to painting. Then he kept
me two years at Bologna casting his statue in bronze, which has been destroyed. After that
I returned to Rome and stayed with him until his death, always keeping my house open without
post or pension, living on the money for the tomb, since I had no other income. After the death
of Julius, Aginensis wanted me to go on with it, but on a larger scale. So I brought the marbles
to the Macello dei Corvi, and got that part of the mural scheme finished which is now walled
in at S. Pietro in Vincoli, and made the figures which I have at home still. Meanwhile, Leo,
not wishing me to work at the tomb, pretended that he wanted to complete the façade of S. Lorenzo
at Florence, and begged me of the Cardinal.

Twice again in October Michelangelo wrote to Luigi del Riccio about the ratification of his
contract. "I cannot live, far less paint." "I am resolved to stop at home and finish the three
figures, as I agreed to do. This would be better for me than to drag my limbs daily to the
Vatican. Let him who likes get angry. If the Pope wants me to paint, he must send for the Duke's
ambassador and procure the ratification."

What happened at this time about the tomb can be understood by help of a letter written to
Salvestro da Montauto on the 3rd of February 1545. Michelangelo refers to the last contract,
and says that the Duke of Urbino ratified the deed. Accordingly, five statues were assigned
to Raffaello da Montelupo. "But while I was painting the new chapel for Pope Paul III., his
Holiness, at my earnest prayer, allowed me a little time, during which I finished two of them,
namely, the Active and Contemplative Life, with my own hand."

With all his good-will, however, Michelangelo did not wholly extricate himself from the anxieties
of this miserable affair. As late as the year 1553, Annibale Caro wrote to Antonio Gallo entreating
him to plead for the illustrious old man with the Duke of Urbino. "I assure you that the extreme
distress caused him by being in disgrace with his Excellency is sufficient to bring his grey
hairs to the grave before his time."

VI

The Tomb of Julius, as it now appears in the Church of S. Pietro in Vincoli in Rome, is a monument
composed of two discordant parts, by inspecting which a sympathetic critic is enabled to read
the dreary history of its production. As Condivi allows, it was a thing "rattoppata e rifatta,"
patched together and hashed up.

The lower half represents what eventually survived from the grandiose original design for one
façade of that vast mount of marble which was to have been erected in the Tribune of St. Peter's.
The socles, upon which captive Arts and Sciences were meant to stand, remain; but instead of
statues, inverted consoles take their places, and lead lamely up to the heads and busts of
terminal old men. The pilasters of these terms have been shortened. There are four of them,
enclosing two narrow niches, where beautiful female figures, the Active Life and the Contemplative
Life, still testify to the enduring warmth and vigour of the mighty sculptor's genius. As single
statues duly worked into a symmetrical scheme, these figures would be admirable, since grace
of line and symbolical contrast of attitude render both charming. In their present position
they are reduced to comparative insignificance by heavy architectural surroundings. The space
left free between the niches and the terms is assigned to the seated statue of Moses, which
forms the main attraction of the monument, and of which, as a masterpiece of Michelangelo's
best years, I shall have to speak later on.

The architectural plan and the surface decoration of this lower half are conceived in a style
belonging to the earlier Italian Renaissance. Arabesques and masks and foliated patterns adorn
the flat slabs. The recess of each niche is arched with a concave shell. The terminal busts
are boldly modelled, and impose upon the eye. The whole is rich in detail, and, though somewhat
arid in fanciful invention, it carries us back to the tradition of Florentine work by Mino
da Fiesole and Desiderio da Settignano.

When we ascend to the upper portion, we seem to have passed, as indeed we do pass, into the
region of the new manner created by Michelangelo at S. Lorenzo. The orders of the pilasters
are immensely tall in proportion to the spaces they enclose. Two of these spaces, those on
the left and right side, are filled in above with meaningless rectangular recesses, while seated
statues occupy less than a whole half in altitude of the niches. The architectural design is
nondescript, corresponding to no recognised style, unless it be a bastard Roman Doric. There
is absolutely no decorative element except four shallow masks beneath the abaci of the pilasters.
All is cold and broad and dry, contrasting strangely with the accumulated details of the lower
portion. In the central niche, immediately above the Moses, stands a Madonna of fine sculptural
quality, beneath a shallow arch, which repeats the shell-pattern. At her feet lies the extended
figure of Pope Julius II., crowned with the tiara, raising himself in a half-recumbent attitude
upon his right arm.

Of the statues in the upper portion, by far the finest in artistic merit is the Madonna. This
dignified and gracious lady, holding the Divine Child in her arms, must be reckoned among Buonarroti's
triumphs in dealing with the female form. There is more of softness and sweetness here than
in the Madonna of the Medicean sacristy, while the infant playing with a captured bird is full
of grace. Michelangelo left little in this group for the chisel of Montelupo to deform by alteration.
The seated female, a Sibyl, on the left, bears equally the stamp of his design. Executed by
himself, this would have been a masterpiece for grandeur of line and dignified repose. As it
is, the style, while seeming to aim at breadth, remains frigid and formal. The so-called Prophet
on the other side counts among the signal failures of Italian sculpture. It has neither beauty
nor significance. Like a heavy Roman consul of the Decadence, the man sits there, lumpy and
meaningless; we might take it for a statue-portrait erected by some provincial municipality
to celebrate a local magnate; but of prophecy or inspiration there is nothing to detect in
this inert figure. We wonder why he should be placed so near a Pope.

It is said that Michelangelo expressed dissatisfaction with Montelupo's execution of the two
statues finally committed to his charge, and we know from documents that the man was ill when
they were finished. Still we can hardly excuse the master himself for the cold and perfunctory
performance of a task which had such animated and heroic beginnings. Competent judges, who
have narrowly surveyed the monument, say that the stones are badly put together, and the workmanship
is defective in important requirements of the sculptor-mason's craft. Those who defend Buonarroti
must fall back upon the theory that weariness and disappointment made him at last indifferent
to the fate of a design which had cost him so much anxiety, pecuniary difficulties, and frustrated
expectations in past years. He let the Tomb of Julius, his first vast dream of art, be botched
up out of dregs and relics by ignoble hands, because he was heart-sick and out of pocket.

As artist, Michelangelo might, one thinks, have avoided the glaring discord of styles between
the upper and the lower portions of the tomb; but sensitiveness to harmony of manner lies not
in the nature of men who rapidly evolve new forms of thought and feeling from some older phase.
Probably he felt the width and the depth of that gulf which divided himself in 1505 from the
same self in 1545, less than we do. Forty years in a creative nature introduce subtle changes,
which react upon the spirit of the age, and provoke subsequent criticism to keen comments and
comparisons. The individual and his contemporaries are not so well aware of these discrepancies
as posterity.

The Moses, which Paul and his courtiers thought sufficient to commemorate a single Pope, stands
as the eminent jewel of this defrauded tomb. We may not be attracted by it. We may even be
repelled by the goat-like features, the enormous beard, the ponderous muscles, and the grotesque
garments of the monstrous statue. In order to do it justice, Jet us bear in mind that the Moses
now remains detached from a group of environing symbolic forms which Michelangelo designed.
Instead of taking its place as one among eight corresponding and counterbalancing giants, it
is isolated, thrust forward on the eye; whereas it was intended to be viewed from below in
concert with a scheme of balanced figures, male and female, on the same colossal scale.

Condivi writes not amiss, in harmony with the gusto of his age, and records what a gentle spirit
thought about the Moses then: "Worthy of all admiration is the statue of Moses, duke and captain
of the Hebrews. He sits posed in the attitude of a thinker and a sage, holding beneath his
right arm the tables of the law, and with the left hand giving support to his chin, like one
who is tired and full of anxious cares. From the fingers of this hand escape long flowing lines
of beard, which are very beautiful in their effect upon the eye. The face is full of vivid
life and spiritual force, fit to inspire both love and terror, as perhaps the man in truth
did. He bears, according to the customary wont of artists while portraying Moses, two horns
upon the head, not far removed from the summit of the brows. He is robed and girt about the
legs with hosen, the arms bare, and all the rest after the antique fashion. It is a marvellous
work, and full of art: mostly in this, that underneath those subtleties of raiment one can
perceive the naked form, the garments detracting nothing from the beauty of the body; as was
the universal way of working with this master in all his clothed figures, whether painted or
sculptured."

Except that Condivi dwelt too much upon the repose of this extraordinary statue, too little
upon its vivacity and agitating unrest, his description serves our purpose as well as any other.
He does not seem to have felt the turbulence and carnal insolence which break our sense of
dignity and beauty now.

Michelangelo left the Moses incomplete in many details, after bringing the rest of the figure
to a high state of polish. Tooth-marks of the chisel are observable upon the drapery, the back,
both hands, part of the neck, the hair, and the salient horns. It seems to have been his habit,
as Condivi and Cellini report, to send a finished statue forth with some sign-manual of roughness
in the final touches. That gave his work the signature of the sharp tools he had employed upon
it. And perhaps he loved the marble so well that he did not like to quit the good white stone
without sparing a portion of its clinging strength and stubbornness, as symbol of the effort
of his brain and hand to educe live thought from inert matter.

In the century after Michelangelo's death a sonnet was written by Giovanni Battista Felice
Zappi upon this Moses. It is famous in Italian literature, and expresses adequately the ideas
which occur to ordinary minds when they approach the Moses. For this reason I think that it
is worthy of being introduced in a translation here:--

 Who is the man who, carved in this huge stone,
    Sits giant, all renowned things of art
    Transcending? he whose living lips, that start,
    Speak eager words? I hear, and take their tone.

  He sure is Moses. That the chin hath shown
    By its dense honour, the brows' beam bipart:
    'Tis Moses, when he left the Mount, with part,
    A great-part, of God's glory round him thrown.

  Such was the prophet when those sounding vast
    Waters he held suspense about him; such
    When he the sea barred, made it gulph his foe.

  And you, his tribes, a vile calf did you cast?
    Why not an idol worth like this so much?
    To worship that had wrought you lesser woe.

VII

Before quitting the Tomb of Julius, I must discuss the question of eight scattered statues,
partly unfinished, which are supposed, on more or less good grounds, to have been designed
for this monument. About two of them, the bound Captives in the Louvre, there is no doubt.
Michelangelo mentions these in his petition to Pope Paul, saying that the change of scale implied
by the last plan obliged him to abstain from using them. We also know their history. When the
sculptor was ill at Rome in 1544, Luigi del Riccio nursed him in the palace of the Strozzi.
Gratitude for this hospitality induced him to make a present of the statues to Ruberto degli
Strozzi, who took them to France and offered them to the King. Francis gave them to the Constable
de Montmorenci; and he placed them in his country-house of Ecouen. In 1793 the Republic offered
them for sale, when they were bought for the French nation by M. Lenoir.

One of these Captives deserves to be called the most fascinating creation of the master's genius.
Together with the Adam, it may be taken as fixing his standard of masculine beauty. He is a
young man, with head thrown back, as though in swoon or slumber; the left arm raised above
the weight of massy curls, the right hand resting on his broad full bosom. There is a divine
charm in the tranquil face, tired but not fatigued, sad but not melancholy, suggesting that
the sleeping mind of the immortal youth is musing upon solemn dreams. Praxiteles might have
so expressed the Genius of Eternal Repose; but no Greek sculptor would have given that huge
girth to the thorax, or have exaggerated the mighty hand with such delight in sinewy force.
These qualities, peculiar to Buonarroti's sense of form, do not detract from the languid pose
and supple rhythm of the figure, which flows down, a sinuous line of beauty, through the slightly
swelling flanks, along the finely moulded thighs, to loveliest feet emerging from the marble.
It is impossible, while gazing on this statue, not to hear a strain of intellectual music.
Indeed, like melody, it tells no story, awakes no desire, but fills the soul with something
beyond thought or passion, subtler and more penetrating than words.

The companion figure has not equal grace. Athletically muscular, though adolescent, the body
of this young man, whose hands are tied behind his back, is writhed into an attitude of vehement
protest and rebellion. He raises his face with appealing pain to heaven. The head, which is
only blocked out, overweighs the form, proving that Michelangelo, unlike the Greeks, did not
observe a fixed canon of proportion for the human frame. This statue bears a strong resemblance
in feeling and conception to the Apollo designed for Baccio Valori.

There are four rough-hewn male figures, eccentrically wrought into the rock-work of a grotto
in the Boboli Gardens, which have been assigned to the Tomb of Julius. This attribution involves
considerable difficulties. In the first place, the scale is different, and the stride of one
of them, at any rate, is too wide for the pedestals of that monument. Then their violent contortions
and ponderous adult forms seem to be at variance with the spirit of the Captives. Mr. Heath
Wilson may perhaps be right in his conjecture that Michelangelo began them for the sculptural
decoration on the façade of S. Lorenzo. Their incompleteness baffles criticism; yet we feel
instinctively that they were meant for the open air and for effect at a considerable distance.
They remind us of Deucalion's men growing out of the stones he threw behind his back. We could
not wish them to be finished, or to lose their wild attraction, as of primeval beings, the
remnants of dim generations nearer than ourselves to elemental nature. No better specimens
of Buonarroti's way of working in the marble could be chosen. Almost savage hatchings with
the point blend into finer touches from the toothed chisel; and here and there the surface
has been treated with innumerable smoothing lines that round it into skin and muscle. To a
man who chiselled thus, marble must have yielded like softest freestone beneath his tools;
and how recklessly he wrought is clear from the defective proportions of one old man's figure,
whose leg below the knee is short beyond all excuse.

A group of two figures, sometimes called the Victory, now in the Bargello Palace, was catalogued
without hesitation by Vasari among the statues for the tomb. A young hero, of gigantic strength
and height, stands firmly poised upon one foot, while his other leg, bent at the knee, crushes
the back of an old man doubled up beneath him. In the face of the vanquished warrior critics
have found a resemblance to Michelangelo. The head of the victorious youth seems too small
for his stature, and the features are almost brutally vacuous, though burning with an insolent
and carnal beauty. The whole forcible figure expresses irresistible energy and superhuman litheness
combined with massive strength. This group cannot be called pleasing, and its great height
renders it almost inconceivable that it was meant to range upon one monument with the Captives
of the Louvre. There are, however, so many puzzles and perplexities connected with that design
in its several stages, that we dare affirm or deny nothing concerning it. M. Guillaume, taking
it for granted that the Victory was intended for the tomb, makes the plausible suggestion that
some of the peculiarities which render it in composition awkward, would have been justified
by the addition of bronze wings. Mr. Heath Wilson, seeking after an allegory, is fain to believe
that it represents Michelangelo's own state of subjection while employed upon the Serravezza
quarries.

Last comes the so-called Adonis of the Bargello Palace, which not improbably was designed for
one of the figures prostrate below the feet of a victorious Genius. It bears, indeed, much
resemblance to a roughly indicated nude at the extreme right of the sketch for the tomb. Upon
this supposition, Michelangelo must have left it in a very unfinished state, with an unshaped
block beneath the raised right thigh. This block has now been converted into a boar. Extremely
beautiful as the Adonis undoubtedly is, the strained, distorted attitude seems to require some
explanation. That might have been given by the trampling form and robes of a Genius. Still
it is difficult to comprehend why the left arm and hand, finished, I feel almost sure, by Michelangelo,
should have been so carefully executed. The Genius, if draped, would have hidden nearly the
whole of that part of the statue. The face of this Adonis displays exactly the same type as
that of the so-called Victory and of Giuliano de' Medici. Here the type assumes singular loveliness.

CHAPTER XII

I

After the death of Clement VII. Michelangelo never returned to reside at Florence. The rest
of his life was spent in Rome. In the year 1534 he had reached the advanced age of fifty-nine,
and it is possible that he first became acquainted with the noble lady Vittoria Colonna about
1538. Recent students of his poetry and friendships have suggested that their famous intimacy
began earlier, during one of his not infrequent visits to Rome. But we have no proof of this.
On the contrary, the only letters extant which he sent to her, two in number, belong to the
year 1545. It is certain that anything like friendship between them grew up at some considerable
time after his final settlement in Rome.

Vittoria was the daughter of Fabrizio Colonna, Grand Constable of Naples, by his marriage with
Agnesina di Montefeltro, daughter of Federigo, Duke of Urbino. Blood more illustrious than
hers could not be found in Italy. When she was four years old, her parents betrothed her to
Ferrante Francesco d'Avalos, a boy of the same age, the only son of the Marchese di Pescara.
In her nineteenth year the affianced couple were married at Ischia, the fief and residence
of the house of D'Avalos. Ferrante had succeeded to his father's title early in boyhood, and
was destined for a brilliant military career. On the young bride's side at least it was a love-match.
She was tenderly attached to her handsome husband, ignorant of his infidelities, and blind
to his fatal faults of character. Her happiness proved of short duration. In 1512 Pescara was
wounded and made prisoner at the battle of Ravenna, and, though he returned to his wife for
a short interval, duty called him again to the field of war in Lombardy in 1515. After this
date Vittoria saw him but seldom. The last time they met was in October 1522. As general of
the Imperial forces, Pescara spent the next years in perpetual military operations. Under his
leadership the battle of Pavia was won in 1525, and King Francis became his master's prisoner.
So far, nothing but honour, success, and glory waited on the youthful hero. But now the tide
turned. Pescara, when he again settled down at Milan, began to plot with Girolamo Morone, Grand
Chancellor of Francesco Sforza's duchy. Morone had conceived a plan for reinstating his former
lord in Milan by the help of an Italian coalition. He offered Pescara the crown of Naples if
he would turn against the Emperor. The Marquis seems at first to have lent a not unwilling
ear to these proposals, but seeing reason to doubt the success of the scheme, he finally resolved
to betray Morone to Charles V., and did this with cold-blooded ingenuity. A few months afterwards,
on November 25, 1525, he died, branded as a traitor, accused of double treachery, both to his
sovereign and his friend.

If suspicions of her husband's guilt crossed Vittoria's mind, as we have some reason to believe
they did, these were not able to destroy her loyalty and love. Though left so young a widow
and childless, she determined to consecrate her whole life to his memory and to religion. His
nephew and heir, the Marchese del Vasto, became her adopted son. The Marchioness survived Pescara
two-and-twenty years, which were spent partly in retirement at Ischia, partly in journeys,
partly in convents at Orvieto and Viterbo, and finally in a semi-monastic seclusion at Rome.
The time spared from pious exercises she devoted to study, the composition of poetry, correspondence
with illustrious men of letters, and the society of learned persons. Her chief friends belonged
to that group of earnest thinkers who felt the influences of the Reformation without ceasing
to be loyal children of the Church. With Vittoria's name are inseparably connected those of
Gasparo Contarini, Reginald Pole, Giovanni Morone, Jacopo Sadoleto, Marcantonio Flaminio, Pietro
Carnesecchi, and Fra Bernardino Ochino. The last of these avowed his Lutheran principles, and
was severely criticised by Vittoria Colonna for doing so. Carnesecchi was burned for heresy.
Vittoria never adopted Protestantism, and died an orthodox Catholic. Yet her intimacy with
men of liberal opinions exposed her to mistrust and censure in old age. The movement of the
Counter-Reformation had begun, and any kind of speculative freedom aroused suspicion. This
saintly princess was accordingly placed under the supervision of the Holy Office, and to be
her friend was slightly dangerous. It is obvious that Vittoria's religion was of an evangelical
type, inconsistent with the dogmas developed by the Tridentine Council; and it is probable
that, like her friend Contarini, she advocated a widening rather than a narrowing of Western
Christendom. To bring the Church back to purer morals and sincerity of faith was their aim.
They yearned for a reformation and regeneration from within.

In all these matters, Michelangelo, the devout student of the Bible and the disciple of Savonarola,
shared Vittoria's sentiments. His nature, profoundly and simply religious from the outset,
assumed a tone of deeper piety and habitual devotion during the advance of years. Vittoria
Colonna's influence at this period strengthened his Christian emotions, which remained untainted
by asceticism or superstition. They were further united by another bond, which was their common
interest in poetry. The Marchioness of Pescara was justly celebrated during her lifetime as
one of the most natural writers of Italian verse. Her poems consist principally of sonnets
consecrated to the memory of her husband, or composed on sacred and moral subjects. Penetrated
by genuine feeling, and almost wholly free from literary affectation, they have that dignity
and sweetness which belong to the spontaneous utterances of a noble heart. Whether she treats
of love or of religion, we find the same simplicity and sincerity of style. There is nothing
in her pious meditations that a Christian of any communion may not read with profit, as the
heartfelt outpourings of a soul athirst for God and nourished on the study of the gospel.

Michelangelo preserved a large number of her sonnets, which he kept together in one volume.
Writing to his nephew Lionardo in 1554, he says: "Messer Giovan Francesco (Fattucci) asked
me about a month ago if I possessed any writings of the Marchioness. I have a little book bound
in parchment, which she gave me some ten years ago. It has one hundred and three sonnets, not
counting another forty she afterwards sent on paper from Viterbo. I had these bound into the
same book, and at that time I used to lend them about to many persons, so that they are all
of them now in print. In addition to these poems I have many letters which she wrote from Orvieto
and Viterbo. These then are the writings I possess of the Marchioness." He composed several
pieces, madrigals and sonnets, under the genial influence of this exchange of thoughts. It
was a period at which his old love of versifying revived with singular activity. Other friends,
like Tommaso Cavalieri, Luigi del Riccio, and afterwards Vasari, enticed his Muse to frequent
utterance. Those he wrote for the Marchioness were distributed in manuscript among his private
friends, and found their way into the first edition of his collected poems. But it is a mistake
to suppose that she was the sole or even the chief source of his poetical inspiration.

We shall see that it was his custom to mark his feeling for particular friends by gifts of
drawings as well as of poems. He did this notably in the case of both Vittoria Colonna and
Tommaso dei Cavalieri. For the latter he designed subjects from Greek mythology; for the former,
episodes in the Passion of our Lord. "At the request of this lady," says Condivi, "he made
a naked Christ, at the moment when, taken from the cross, our Lord would have fallen like an
abandoned corpse at the feet of his most holy Mother, if two angels did not support him in
their arms. She sits below the cross with a face full of tears and sorrow, lifting both her
widespread arms to heaven, while on the stem of the tree above is written this legend, 'Non
vi si pensa quanto sangue costa.' The cross is of the same kind as that which was carried in
procession by the White Friars at the time of the plague of 1348, and afterwards deposited
in the Church of S. Croce at Florence. He also made, for love of her, the design of a Jesus
Christ upon the cross, not with the aspect of one dead, as is the common wont, but in a divine
attitude, with face raised to the Father, seeming to exclaim, 'Eli! Eli!' In this drawing the
body does not appear to fall, like an abandoned corpse, but as though in life to writhe and
quiver with the agony it feels."

Of these two designs we have several more or less satisfactory mementoes. The Pietà was engraved
by Giulio Bonasoni and Tudius Bononiensis (date 1546), exactly as Condivi describes it. The
Crucifixion survives in a great number of pencil-drawings, together with one or two pictures
painted by men like Venusti, and many early engravings of the drawings. One sketch in the Taylor
Museum at Oxford is generally supposed to represent the original designed for Vittoria.

II

What remains of the correspondence between Michelangelo and the Marchioness opens with a letter
referring to their interchange of sonnets and drawings. It is dated Rome, 1545. Vittoria had
evidently sent him poems, and he wishes to make her a return in kind: "I desired, lady, before
I accepted the things which your ladyship has often expressed the will to give me--I desired
to produce something for you with my own hand, in order to be as little as possible unworthy
of this kindness. I have now come to recognise that the grace of God is not to be bought, and
that to keep it waiting is a grievous sin. Therefore I acknowledge my error, and willingly
accept your favours. When I possess them, not indeed because I shall have them in my house,
but for that I myself shall dwell in them, the place will seem to encircle me with Paradise.
For which felicity I shall remain ever more obliged to your ladyship than I am already, if
that is possible.

"The bearer of this letter will be Urbino, who lives in my service. Your ladyship may inform
him when you would like me to come and see the head you promised to show me."

This letter is written under the autograph copy of a sonnet which must have been sent with
it, since it expresses the same thought in its opening quatrain. My translation of the poem
runs thus:

  Seeking at least to be not all unfit
     For thy sublime and-boundless courtesy,
     My lowly thoughts at first were fain to try
     What they could yield for grace so infinite.
  But now I know my unassisted wit
     Is all too weak to make me soar so high,
     For pardon, lady, for this fault I cry,
     And wiser still I grow, remembering it.
  Yea, well I see what folly 'twere to think
     That largess dropped from thee like dews from heaven
     Could e'er be paid by work so frail as mine!
  To nothingness my art and talent sink;
     He fails who from his mortal stores hath given
     A thousandfold to match one gift divine.

Michelangelo's next letter refers to the design for the Crucified Christ, described by Condivi.
It is pleasant to find that this was sent by the hand of Cavalieri: "Lady Marchioness,--Being
myself in Rome, I thought it hardly fitting to give the Crucified Christ to Messer Tommaso,
and to make him an intermediary between your ladyship and me, your servant; especially because
it has been my earnest wish to perform more for you than for any one I ever knew upon the world.
But absorbing occupations, which still engage me, have prevented my informing your ladyship
of this. Moreover, knowing that you know that love needs no taskmaster, and that he who loves
doth not sleep, I thought the less of using go-betweens. And though I seemed to have forgotten,
I was doing what I did not talk about in order to effect a thing that was not looked for. My
purpose has been spoiled: He sins who faith like this so soon forgets."

A sonnet which may or may not have been written at this time, but seems certainly intended
for the Marchioness, shall here be given as a pendant to the letter:--

  Blest spirit, who with loving tenderness
    Quickenest my heart, so old and near to die,
    Who 'mid thy joys on me dost bend an eye,
    Though many nobler men around thee press!
  As thou wert erewhile wont my sight to bless,
    So to console, my mind thou now dost fly;
    Hope therefore stills the pangs of memory,
    Which, coupled with desire, my soul distress.
  So finding in thee grace to plead for me--
    Thy thoughts for me sunk in so sad a case--
    He who now writes returns thee thanks for these.
    Lo! it were foul and monstrous usury
    To send thee ugliest paintings in the place
    Of thy fair spirit's living phantasies.

Unfortunately we possess no other document in prose addressed immediately to Vittoria. But
four of her letters to him exist, and from these I will select some specimens reflecting light
upon the nature of the famous intimacy. The Marchioness writes always in the tone and style
of a great princess, adding that peculiar note of religious affectionateness which the French
call "onction," and marking her strong admiration of the illustrious artist. The letters are
not dated; but this matters little, since they only turn on literary courtesies exchanged,
drawings presented, and pious interests in common.

"Unique Master Michelangelo, and my most singular friend,--I have received your letter, and
examined the crucifix, which truly hath crucified in my memory every other picture I ever saw.
Nowhere could one find another figure of our Lord so well executed, so living, and so exquisitely
finished. Certes, I cannot express in words how subtly and marvellously it is designed. Wherefore
I am resolved to take the work as coming from no other hand but yours, and accordingly I beg
you to assure me whether this is really yours or another's. Excuse the question. If it is yours,
I must possess it under any conditions. In case it is not yours, and you want to have it carried
out by your assistant, we will talk the matter over first. I know how extremely difficult it
would be to copy it, and therefore I would rather let him finish something else than this.
But if it be in fact yours, rest assured, and make the best of it, that it will never come
again into your keeping. I have examined it minutely in full light and by the lens and mirror,
and never saw anything more perfect.--Yours to command,

          "The Marchioness of Pescara."

Like many grand ladies of the highest rank, even though they are poetesses, Vittoria Colonna
did not always write grammatically or coherently. I am not therefore sure that I have seized
the exact meaning of this diplomatical and flattering letter. It would appear, however, that
Michelangelo had sent her the drawing for a crucifix, intimating that, if she liked it, he
would intrust its execution to one of his workmen, perhaps Urbino. This, as we know, was a
common practice adopted by him in old age, in order to avoid commissions which interfered with
his main life-work at S. Peter's. The noble lady, fully aware that the sketch is an original,
affects some doubt upon the subject, declines the intervention of a common craftsman, and declares
her firm resolve to keep it, leaving an impression that she would gladly possess the crucifix
if executed by the same hand which had supplied the masterly design.

Another letter refers to the drawing of a Christ upon the cross between two angels.

"Your works forcibly stimulate the judgment of all who look at them. My study of them made
me speak of adding goodness to things perfect in themselves, and I have seen now that 'all
is possible to him who believes.' I had the greatest faith in God that He would bestow upon
you supernatural grace for the making of this Christ. When I came to examine it, I found it
so marvellous that it surpasses all my expectations. Wherefore, emboldened by your miracles,
I conceived a great desire for that which I now see marvellously accomplished: I mean that
the design is in all parts perfect and consummate, and one could not desire more, nor could
desire attain to demanding so much. I tell you that I am mighty pleased that the angel on the
right hand is by far the fairer, since Michael will place you, Michelangelo, upon the right
hand of our Lord at that last day. Meanwhile, I do not know how else to serve you than by making
orisons to this sweet Christ, whom you have drawn so well and exquisitely, and praying you
to hold me yours to command as yours in all and for all."

The admiration and the good-will of the great lady transpire in these somewhat incoherent and
studied paragraphs. Their verbiage leaves much to be desired in the way of logic and simplicity.
It is pleasanter perhaps to read a familiar note, sent probably by the hand of a servant to
Buonarroti's house in Rome.

"I beg you to let me have the crucifix a short while in my keeping, even though it be unfinished.
I want to show it to some gentlemen who have come from the Most Reverend the Cardinal of Mantua.
If you are not working, will you not come to-day at your leisure and talk with me?--Yours to
command,

                         "The Marchioness of Pescara."

It seems that Michelangelo's exchange of letters and poems became at last too urgent. We know
it was his way (as in the case of Luigi del Riccio) to carry on an almost daily correspondence
for some while, and then to drop it altogether when his mood changed. Vittoria, writing from
Viterbo, gives him a gentle and humorous hint that he is taking up too much of her time:

"Magnificent Messer Michelangelo,--I did not reply earlier to your letter, because it was,
as one might say, an answer to my last: for I thought that if you and I were to go on writing
without intermission according to my obligation and your courtesy, I should have to neglect
the Chapel of S. Catherine here, and be absent at the appointed hours for company with my sisterhood,
while you would have to leave the Chapel of S. Paul, and be absent from morning through the
day from your sweet usual colloquy with painted forms, the which with their natural accents
do not speak to you less clearly than the living persons round me speak to me. Thus we should
both of us fail in our duty, I to the brides, you to the vicar of Christ. For these reasons,
inasmuch as I am well assured of our steadfast friendship and firm affection, bound by knots
of Christian kindness, I do not think it necessary to obtain the proof of your good-will in
letters by writing on my side, but rather to await with well-prepared mind some substantial
occasion for serving you. Meanwhile I address my prayers to that Lord of whom you spoke to
me with so fervent and humble a heart when I left Rome, that when I return thither I may find
you with His image renewed and enlivened by true faith in your soul, in like measure as you
have painted it with perfect art in my Samaritan. Believe me to remain always yours and your
Urbino's."

This letter must have been written when Michelangelo was still working on the frescoes of the
Cappella Paolina, and therefore before 1549. The check to his importunacy, given with genial
tact by the Marchioness, might be taken, by those who believe their liaison to have had a touch
of passion in it, as an argument in favour of that view. The great age which Buonarroti had
now reached renders this, however, improbable; while the general tenor of their correspondence
is that of admiration for a great artist on the lady's side, and of attraction to a noble nature
on the man's side, cemented by religious sentiment and common interests in serious topics.

III

All students of Michelangelo's biography are well acquainted with the Dialogues on Painting,
composed by the Portuguese miniature artist, Francis of Holland. Written in the quaint style
of the sixteenth century, which curiously blent actual circumstance and fact with the author's
speculation, these essays present a vivid picture of Buonarroti's conferences with Vittoria
Colonna and her friends. The dialogues are divided into four parts, three of which profess
to give a detailed account of three several Sunday conversations in the Convent of S. Silvestro
on Monte Cavallo. After describing the objects which brought him to Rome, Francis says: "Above
all, Michelangelo inspired me with such esteem, that when I met him in the palace of the Pope
or on the streets, I could not make my mind up to leave him until the stars forced us to retire."
Indeed, it would seem from his frank admissions in another place that the Portuguese painter
had become a little too attentive to the famous old man, and that Buonarroti "did all he could
to shun his company, seeing that when they once came together, they could not separate." It
happened one Sunday that Francis paid a visit to his friend Lattanzio Tolomei, who had gone
abroad, leaving a message that he would be found in the Church of S. Silvestro, where he was
hoping to hear a lecture by Brother Ambrose of Siena on the Epistles of S. Paul, in company
with the Marchioness. Accordingly he repaired to this place, and was graciously received by
the noble lady. She courteously remarked that he would probably enjoy a conversation with Michelangelo
more than a sermon from Brother Ambrose, and after an interval of compliments a servant was
sent to find him. It chanced that Buonarroti was walking with the man whom Francis of Holland
calls "his old friend and colour-grinder," Urbino, in the direction of the Thermae. So the
lackey, having the good chance to meet him, brought him at once to the convent. The Marchioness
made him sit between her and Messer Tolomei, while Francis took up his position at a little
distance. The conversation then began, but Vittoria Colonna had to use the tact for which she
was celebrated before she could engage the wary old man on a serious treatment of his own art.

He opened his discourse by defending painters against the common charge of being "eccentric
in their habits, difficult to deal with, and unbearable; whereas, on the contrary, they are
really most humane." Common people do not consider, he remarked, that really zealous artists
are bound to abstain from the idle trivialities and current compliments of society, not because
they are haughty or intolerant by nature, but because their art imperiously claims the whole
of their energies. "When such a man shall have the same leisure as you enjoy, then I see no
objection to your putting him to death if he does not observe your rules of etiquette and ceremony.
You only seek his company and praise him in order to obtain honour through him for yourselves,
nor do you really mind what sort of man he is, so long as kings and emperors converse with
him. I dare affirm that any artist who tries to satisfy the better vulgar rather than men of
his own craft, one who has nothing singular, eccentric, or at least reputed to be so, in his
person, will never become a superior talent. For my part, I am bound to confess that even his
Holiness sometimes annoys and wearies me by begging for too much of my company. I am most anxious
to serve him, but, when there is nothing important going forward, I think I can do so better
by studying at home than by dancing attendance through a whole day on my legs in his reception-rooms.
He allows me to tell him so; and I may add that the serious occupations of my life have won
for me such liberty of action that, in talking to the Pope, I often forget where I am, and
place my hat upon my head. He does not eat me up on that account, but treats me with indulgence,
knowing that it is precisely at such times that I am working hard to serve him. As for solitary
habits, the world is right in condemning a man who, out of pure affectation or eccentricity,
shuts himself up alone, loses his friends, and sets society against him. Those, however, who
act in this way naturally, because their profession obliges them to lead a recluse life, or
because their character rebels against feigned politenesses and conventional usage, ought in
common justice to be tolerated. What claim by right have you on him? Why should you force him
to take part in those vain pastimes, which his love for a quiet life induces him to shun? Do
you not know that there are sciences which demand the whole of a man, without leaving the least
portion of his spirit free for your distractions?" This apology for his own life, couched in
a vindication of the artistic temperament, breathes an accent of sincerity, and paints Michelangelo
as he really was, with his somewhat haughty sense of personal dignity. What he says about his
absence of mind in the presence of great princes might be illustrated by a remark attributed
to Clement VII. "When Buonarroti comes to see me, I always take a seat and bid him to be seated,
feeling sure that he will do so without leave or license."

The conversation passed by natural degrees to a consideration of the fine arts in general.
In the course of this discussion, Michelangelo uttered several characteristic opinions, strongly
maintaining the superiority of the Italian to the Flemish and German schools, and asserting
his belief that, while all objects are worthy of imitation by the artist, the real touch stone
of excellence lies in his power to represent the human form. His theory of the arts in their
reciprocal relations and affinities throws interesting light upon the qualities of his own
genius and his method in practice. "The science of design, or of line-drawing, if you like
to use this term, is the source and very essence of painting, sculpture, architecture, and
of every form of representation, as well too as of all the sciences. He who has made himself
a master in this art possesses a great treasure. Sometimes, when I meditate upon these topics,
it seems to me that I can discover but one art or science, which is design, and that all the
works of the human brain and hand are either design itself or a branch of that art." This theme
he develops at some length, showing how a complete mastery of drawing is necessary not only
to the plastic arts of painting and sculpture, but also to the constructive and mechanical
arts of architecture, fortification, gun-foundry, and so forth, applying the same principle
to the minutest industries.

With regard to the personal endowments of the artist, he maintained that "a lofty style, grave
and decorous, was essential to great work. Few artists understand this, and endeavour to appropriate
these qualities. Consequently we find many members of the confraternity who are only artists
in name. The world encourages this confusion of ideas, since few are capable of distinguishing
between a fellow who has nothing but his colour-box and brushes to make him a painter, and
the really gifted natures who appear only at wide intervals." He illustrates the position that
noble qualities in the artist are indispensable to nobility in the work of art, by a digression
on religious painting and sculpture. "In order to represent in some degree the adored image
of our Lord, it is not enough that a master should be great and able. I maintain that he must
also be a man of good conduct and morals, if possible a saint, in order that the Holy Ghost
may rain down inspiration on his understanding. Ecclesiastical and secular princes ought, therefore,
to permit only the most illustrious among the artists of their realm to paint the benign sweetness
of our Saviour, the purity of our Lady, and the virtues of the saints. It often happens that
ill-executed images distract the minds of worshippers and ruin their devotion, unless it be
firm and fervent. Those, on the contrary, which are executed in the high style I have described,
excite the soul to contemplation and to tears, even among the least devout, by inspiring reverence
and fear through the majesty of their aspect." This doctrine is indubitably sound. To our minds,
nevertheless, it rings a little hollow on the lips of the great master who modelled the Christ
of the Minerva and painted the Christ and Madonna of the Last Judgment. Yet we must remember
that, at the exact period when these dialogues took place, Buonarroti, under the influence
of his friendship with Vittoria Colonna, was devoting his best energies to the devout expression
of the Passion of our Lord. It is deeply to be regretted that, out of the numerous designs
which remain to us from this endeavour, all of them breathing the purest piety, no monumental
work except the Pietà at Florence emerged for perpetuity.

Many curious points, both of minute criticism and broad opinion, might still be gleaned from
the dialogues set down by Francis of Holland. It must suffice here to resume what Michelangelo
maintained about the artist's method. One of the interlocutors begged to be informed whether
he thought that a master ought to aim at working slowly or quickly. "I will tell you plainly
what I feel about this matter. It is both good and useful to be able to work with promptitude
and address. We must regard it as a special gift from God to be able to do that in a few hours
which other men can only perform in many days of labour. Consequently, artists who paint rapidly,
without falling in quality below those who paint but slowly, deserve the highest commendation.
Should this rapidity of execution, however, cause a man to transgress the limits of sound art,
it would have been better to have proceeded with more tardiness and study. A good artist ought
never to allow the impetuosity of his nature to overcome his sense of the main end of art,
perfection. Therefore we cannot call slowness of execution a defect, nor yet the expenditure
of much time and trouble, if this be employed with the view of attaining greater perfection.
The one unpardonable fault is bad work. And here I would remind you of a thing essential to
our art, which you will certainly not ignore, and to which I believe you attach the full importance
it deserves. In every kind of plastic work we ought to strive with all our might at making
what has cost time and labour look as though it had been produced with facility and swiftness.
It sometimes happens, but rarely, that a portion of our work turns out excellent with little
pains bestowed upon it. Most frequently, however, it is the expenditure of care and trouble
which conceals our toil. Plutarch relates that a bad painter showed Apelles a picture, saying:
'This is from my hand; I have just made it in a moment.' The other replied: 'I should have
recognised the fact without your telling me; and I marvel that you do not make a multitude
of such things every day.'" Michelangelo is reported to have made a similar remark to Vasari
when the latter took him to inspect some frescoes he had painted, observing that they had been
dashed off quickly.

We must be grateful to Francis of Holland for this picture of the Sunday-morning interviews
at S. Silvestro. The place was cool and tranquil. The great lady received her guests with urbanity,
and led the conversation with highbred courtesy and tact. Fra Ambrogio, having discoursed upon
the spiritual doctrines of S. Paul's Epistles, was at liberty to turn an attentive ear to purely
aesthetical speculations. The grave and elderly Lattanzio Tolomei added the weight of philosophy
and literary culture to the dialogue. Michelangelo, expanding in the genial atmosphere, spoke
frankly on the arts which he had mastered, not dictating ex cathedra rules, but maintaining
a note of modesty and common-sense and deference to the opinion of others. Francis engaged
on equal terms in the discussion. His veneration for Buonarroti, and the eagerness with which
he noted all the great man's utterances, did not prevent him from delivering lectures at a
somewhat superfluous length. In short, we may fairly accept his account of these famous conferences
as a truthful transcript from the refined and witty social gatherings of which Vittoria Colonna
formed the centre.

IV

This friendship with Vittoria Colonna forms a very charming episode in the history of Michelangelo's
career, and it was undoubtedly one of the consolations of his declining years. Yet too great
stress has hitherto been laid on it by his biographers. Not content with exaggerating its importance
in his life, they have misinterpreted its nature. The world seems unable to take interest in
a man unless it can contrive to discover a love-affair in his career. The singular thing about
Michelangelo is that, with the exception of Vittoria Colonna, no woman is known to have influenced
his heart or head in any way. In his correspondence he never mentions women, unless they be
aunts, cousins, grand-nieces, or servants. About his mother he is silent. We have no tradition
regarding amours in youth or middle age; and only two words dropped by Condivi lead us to conjecture
that he was not wholly insensible to the physical attractions of the female. Romancers and
legend-makers have, therefore, forced Vittoria Colonna to play the rôle of Juliet in Michelangelo's
life-drama. It has not occurred to these critics that there is something essentially disagreeable
in the thought of an aged couple entertaining an amorous correspondence. I use these words
deliberately, because poems which breathe obvious passion of no merely spiritual character
have been assigned to the number he composed for Vittoria Colonna. This, as we shall see, is
chiefly the fault of his first editor, who printed all the sonnets and madrigals as though
they were addressed to one woman or another. It is also in part due to the impossibility of
determining their exact date in the majority of instances. Verses, then, which were designed
for several objects of his affection, male or female, have been indiscriminately referred to
Vittoria Colonna, whereas we can only attribute a few poems with certainty to her series.

This mythus of Michelangelo's passion for the Marchioness of Pescara has blossomed and brought
forth fruit abundantly from a single and pathetic passage in Condivi. "In particular, he greatly
loved the Marchioness of Pescara, of whose divine spirit he was enamoured, being in return
dearly beloved by her. He still preserves many of her letters, breathing honourable and most
tender affection, and such as were wont to issue from a heart like hers. He also wrote to her
a great number of sonnets, full of wit and sweet longing. She frequently removed from Viterbo
and other places, whither she had gone for solace or to pass the summer, and came to Rome with
the sole object of seeing Michelangelo. He for his part, loved her so, that I remember to have
heard him say that he regretted nothing except that when he went to visit her upon the moment
of her passage from this life, he did not kiss her forehead or her face, as he did kiss her
hand. Her death was the cause that oftentimes he dwelt astonied, thinking of it, even as a
man bereft of sense."

Michelangelo himself, writing immediately after Vittoria's death, speaks of her thus: "She
felt the warmest affection for me, and I not less for her. Death has robbed me of a great friend."
It is curious that he here uses the masculine gender: "un grande amico." He also composed two
sonnets, which were in all probability inspired by the keen pain of this bereavement. To omit
them here would be unjust to the memory of their friendship:--

  When my rude hammer to the stubborn stone
     Gives human shape, now that, now this, at will,
     Following his hand who wields and guides it still,
     It moves upon another's feet alone:

The third illustrates in a singular manner that custom of sixteenth-century literature which
Shakespeare followed in his sonnets, of weaving poetical images out of thoughts borrowed from
law and business. It is also remarkable in this respect, that Michelangelo has here employed
precisely the same conceit for Vittoria Colonna which he found serviceable when at an earlier
date he wished to deplore the death of the Florentine, Cecchino dei Bracci. For both of them
he says that Heaven bestowed upon the beloved object all its beauties, instead of scattering
these broad-cast over the human race, which, had it done so, would have entailed the bankruptcy
and death of all:--

  So that high heaven should have not to distrain
  From several that vast beauty ne'er yet shown,
  To one exalted dame alone
  The total sum was lent in her pure self:--
  Heaven had made sorry gain,
  Recovering from the crowd its scattered pelf.
  Now in a puff of breath,
  Nay, in one second, God
  Hath ta'en her back through death,
  Back from the senseless folk and from our eyes.
  Yet earth's oblivious sod,
  Albeit her body dies,
  Will bury not her live words fair and holy.
  Ah, cruel mercy! Here thou showest solely
  How, had heaven lent us ugly what she took,
  And death the debt reclaimed, all men were broke.

Without disputing the fact that a very sincere emotion underlay these verses, it must be submitted
that, in the words of Samuel Johnson about "Lycidas," "he who thus grieves will excite no sympathy;
he who thus praises will confer no honour." This conviction will be enforced when we reflect
that the thought upon which the madrigal above translated has been woven (1547) had been already
used for Cecchino dei Bracci in 1544. It is clear that, in dealing with Michelangelo's poetical
compositions, we have to accept a mass of conventional utterances, penetrated with a few firmly
grasped Platonical ideas. It is only after long familiarity with his work that a man may venture
to distinguish between the accents of the heart and the head-notes in the case of so great
a master using an art he practised mainly as an amateur. I shall have to return to these considerations
when I discuss the value of his poetry taken as a whole.

The union of Michelangelo and Vittoria was beautiful and noble, based upon the sympathy of
ardent and high-feeling natures. Nevertheless we must remember that when Michelangelo lost
his old servant Urbino, his letters and the sonnet written upon that occasion express an even
deeper passion of grief.

Love is an all-embracing word, and may well be used to describe this exalted attachment, as
also to qualify the great sculptor's affection for a faithful servant or for a charming friend.
We ought not, however, to distort the truth of biography or to corrupt criticism, from a personal
wish to make more out of his feeling than fact and probability warrant. This is what has been
done by all who approached the study of Michelangelo's life and writings. Of late years, the
determination to see Vittoria Colonna through every line written by him which bears the impress
of strong emotion, and to suppress other aspects of his sensibility, has been so deliberate,
that I am forced to embark upon a discussion which might otherwise have not been brought so
prominently forward. For the understanding of his character, and for a proper estimate of his
poetry, it has become indispensable to do so.

V

Michelangelo's best friend in Rome was a young nobleman called Tommaso Cavalieri. Speaking
of his numerous allies and acquaintances, Vasari writes: "Immeasurably more than all the rest,
he loved Tommaso dei Cavalieri, a Roman gentleman, for whom, as he was young and devoted to
the arts, Michelangelo made many stupendous drawings of superb heads in black and red chalk,
wishing him to learn the method of design. Moreover, he drew for him a Ganymede carried up
to heaven by Jove's eagle, a Tityos with the vulture feeding on his heart, the fall of Phaeton
with the sun's chariot into the river Po, and a Bacchanal of children; all of them things of
the rarest quality, and drawings the like of which were never seen. Michelangelo made a cartoon
portrait of Messer Tommaso, life-size, which was the only portrait that he ever drew, since
he detested to imitate the living person, unless it was one of incomparable beauty." Several
of Michelangelo's sonnets are addressed to Tommaso Cavalieri. Benedetto Varchi, in his commentary,
introduces two of them with these words: "The first I shall present is one addressed to M.
Tommaso Cavalieri, a young Roman of very noble birth, in whom I recognised, while I was sojourning
at Rome, not only incomparable physical beauty, but so much elegance of manners, such excellent
intelligence, and such graceful behaviour, that he well deserved, and still deserves, to win
the more love the better he is known." Then Varchi recites the sonnet:--

  Why should I seek to ease intense desire
  With still more tears and windy words of grief,
  When heaven, or late or soon, sends no relief
  To souls whom love hath robed around with fire?

  Why need my aching heart to death aspire,
  When all must die? Nay, death beyond belief
  Unto these eyes would be both sweet and brief,
  Since in my sum of woes all joys expire!

  Therefore, because I cannot shun the blow
  I rather seek, say who must rule my breast,
  Gliding between her gladness and her woe?

  If only chains and bands can make me blest,
  No marvel if alone and bare I go,
  An armèd KNIGHT'S captive and slave confessed.

"The other shall be what follows, written perhaps for the same person, and worthy, in my opinion,
not only of the ripest sage, but also of a poet not unexercised in writing verse:--

  With your fair eyes a charming light I see,
  For which my own blind eyes would peer in vain;
  Stayed by your feet, the burden I sustain
  Which my lame feet find all too strong for me;

  Wingless upon your pinions forth I fly;
  Heavenward your sprit stirreth me to strain;
  E'en as you will, I blush and blanch again,
  Freeze in the sun, burn 'neath a frosty sky.

  Your will includes and is the lord of mine;
  Life to my thoughts within your heart is given;
  My words begin to breathe upon your breath:
  Like to the-moon am I, that cannot shine
  Alone; for, lo! our eyes see naught in heaven
  Save what the living sun illumineth."

The frank and hearty feeling for a youth of singular distinction which is expressed in these
sonnets, gave no offence to society during the period of the earlier Renaissance; but after
the Tridentine Council social feeling altered upon this and similar topics. While morals remained
what they had been, language and manners grew more nice and hypocritical. It happened thus
that grievous wrong was done to the text of Michelangelo's poems, with the best intentions,
by their first editor. Grotesque misconceptions, fostered by the same mistaken zeal, are still
widely prevalent.

When Michelangelo the younger arranged his grand-uncle's poems for the press, he was perplexed
by the first of the sonnets quoted by Varchi. The last line, which runs in the Italian thus--

  Resto prigion d'un Cavalier armato,

has an obvious play of words upon Cavalieri's surname. This he altered into

  Resto prigion d'un cor di virtù armato.

The reason was that, if it stood unaltered, "the ignorance of men would have occasion to murmur."
"Varchi," he adds, "did wrong in printing it according to the text." "Remember well," he observes,
"that this sonnet, as well as the preceding number and some others, are concerned, as is manifest,
with a masculine love of the Platonic species." Michelangelo the younger's anxiety for his
granduncle's memory induced him thus to corrupt the text of his poems. The same anxiety has
led their latest editor to explain away the obvious sense of certain words. Signor Guasti approves
of the first editor's pious fraud, on the ground that morality has higher claims than art;
but he adds that the expedient was not necessary: "for these sonnets do not refer to masculine
love, nor yet do any others. In the first (xxxi.) the lady is compared to an armed knight,
because she carries the weapons of her sex and beauty; and while I think on it, an example
occurs to my mind from Messer Cino in support of the argument. As regards the second (lxii.),
those who read these pages of mine will possibly remember that Michelangelo, writing of the
dead Vittoria Colonna, called her amico; and on reflection, this sounds better than amica,
in the place where it occurs. Moreover, there are not wanting in these poems instances of the
term signore, or lord, applied to the beloved lady; which is one of the many periphrastical
expressions used by the Romance poets to indicate their mistress." It is true that Cino compares
his lady in one sonnet to a knight who has carried off the prize of beauty in the lists of
love and grace by her elegant dancing. But he never calls a lady by the name of cavaliere.
It is also indubitable that the Tuscans occasionally addressed the female or male object of
their adoration under the title of signore, lord of my heart and soul. But such instances weigh
nothing against the direct testimony of a contemporary like Varchi, into whose hands Michelangelo's
poems came at the time of their composition, and who was well acquainted with the circumstances
of their composition. There is, moreover, a fact of singular importance bearing on this question,
to which Signor Guasti has not attached the value it deserves. In a letter belonging to the
year 1549, Michelangelo thanks Luca Martini for a copy of Varchi's commentary on his sonnet,
and begs him to express his affectionate regards and hearty thanks to that eminent scholar
for the honour paid him. In a second letter addressed to G.F. Fattucci, under date October
1549, he conveys "the thanks of Messer Tomao de' Cavalieri to Varchi for a certain little book
of his which has been printed, and in which he speaks very honourably of himself, and not less
so of me." In neither of these letters does Michelangelo take exception to Varchi's interpretation
of Sonnet xxxi. Indeed, the second proves that both he and Cavalieri were much pleased with
it. Michelangelo even proceeds to inform Fattucci that Cavalieri "has given me a sonnet which
I made for him in those same years, begging me to send it on as a proof and witness that he
really is the man intended. This I will enclose in my present letter." Furthermore, we possess
an insolent letter of Pietro Aretino, which makes us imagine that the "ignorance of the vulgar"
had already begun to "murmur." After complaining bitterly that Michelangelo refused to send
him any of his drawings, he goes on to remark that it would be better for the artist if he
did so, "inasmuch as such an act of courtesy would quiet the insidious rumours which assert
that only Gerards and Thomases can dispose of them." We have seen from Vasari that Michelangelo
executed some famous designs for Tommaso Cavalieri. The same authority asserts that he presented
"Gherardo Perini, a Florentine gentleman, and his very dear friend," with three splendid drawings
in black chalk. Tommaso Cavalieri and Gherardo Perini, were, therefore, the "Gerards and Thomases"
alluded to by Aretino.

Michelangelo the younger's and Cesare Guasti's method of defending Buonarroti from a malevolence
which was only too well justified by the vicious manners of the time, seems to me so really
injurious to his character, that I feel bound to carry this investigation further. First of
all, we ought to bear in mind what Buonarroti admitted concerning his own temperament. "You
must know that I am, of all men who were ever born, the most inclined to love persons. Whenever
I behold some one who possesses any talent or displays any dexterity of mind, who can do or
say something more appropriately than the rest of the world, I am compelled to fall in love
with him; and then I give myself up to him so entirely that I am no longer my own property,
but wholly his." He mentions this as a reason for not going to dine with Luigi del Riccio in
company with Donate Giannotti and Antonio Petrejo. "If I were to do so, as all of you are adorned
with talents and agreeable graces, each of you would take from me a portion of myself, and
so would the dancer, and so would the lute-player, if men with distinguished gifts in those
arts were present. Each person would filch away a part of me, and instead of being refreshed
and restored to health and gladness, as you said, I should be utterly bewildered and distraught,
in such wise that for many days to come I should not know in what world I was moving." This
passage serves to explain the extreme sensitiveness of the great artist to personal charm,
grace, accomplishments, and throws light upon the self-abandonment with which he sometimes
yielded to the attractions of delightful people.

We possess a series of Michelangelo's letters addressed to or concerned with Tommaso Cavalieri,
the tone of which is certainly extravagant. His biographer, Aurelio Gotti, moved by the same
anxiety as Michelangelo the younger and Guasti, adopted the extraordinary theory that they
were really directed to Vittoria Colonna, and were meant to be shown to her by the common friend
of both, Cavalieri. "There is an epistle to this young man," he says, "so studied in its phrases,
so devoid of all naturalness, that we cannot extract any rational sense from it without supposing
that Cavalieri was himself a friend of the Marchioness, and that Michelangelo, while writing
to him, intended rather to address his words to the Colonna." Of this letter, which bears the
date of January 1, 1533, three drafts exist, proving the great pains taken by Michelangelo
in its composition.

"Without due consideration, Messer Tomao, my very dear lord, I was moved to write to your lordship,
not by way of answer to any letter received from you, but being myself the first to make advances,
as though I felt bound to cross a little stream with dry feet, or a ford made manifest by paucity
of water. But now that I have left the shore, instead of the trifling river I expected, the
ocean with its towering waves appears before me, so that, if it were possible, in order to
avoid drowning, I would gladly retrace my steps to the dry land whence I started. Still, as
I am here, I will e'en make of my heart a rock, and proceed farther; and if I shall not display
the art of sailing on the sea of your powerful genius, that genius itself will excuse me, nor
will be disdainful of my inferiority in parts, nor desire from me that which I do not possess,
inasmuch as he who is unique in all things can have peers in none. Therefore your lordship,
the light of our century without paragon upon this world, is unable to be satisfied with the
productions of other men, having no match or equal to yourself. And if, peradventure, something
of mine, such as I hope and promise to perform, give pleasure to your mind, I shall esteem
it more fortunate than excellent; and should I be ever sure of pleasing your lordship, as is
said, in any particular, I will devote the present time and all my future to your service;
indeed, it will grieve me much that I cannot regain the past, in order to devote a longer space
to you than the future only will allow, seeing I am now too old. I have no more to say. Read
the heart, and not the letter, because 'the pen toils after man's good-will in vain.'

"I have to make excuses for expressing in my first letter a marvellous astonishment at your
rare genius; and thus I do so, having recognised the error I was in; for it is much the same
to wonder at God's working miracles as to wonder at Rome producing divine men. Of this the
universe confirms us in our faith."

It is clear that Michelangelo alludes in this letter to the designs which he is known to have
made for Cavalieri, and the last paragraph has no point except as an elaborate compliment addressed
to a Roman gentleman. It would be quite out of place if applied to Vittoria Colonna. Gotti
finds the language strained and unnatural. We cannot deny that it differs greatly from the
simple diction of the writer's ordinary correspondence. But Michelangelo did sometimes seek
to heighten his style, when he felt that the occasion demanded a special effort; and then he
had recourse to the laboured images in vogue at that period, employing them with something
of the ceremonious cumbrousness displayed in his poetry. The letters to Pietro Aretino, Niccolo
Martelli, Vittoria Colonna, Francis I., Luca Martini, and Giorgio Vasari might be quoted as
examples.

As a postscript to this letter, in the two drafts which were finally rejected, the following
enigmatical sentence is added:--"It would be permissible to give the name of the things a man
presents, to him who receives them; but proper sense of what is fitting prevents it being done
in this letter."

Probably Michelangelo meant that he should have liked to call Cavalieri his friend, since he
had already given him friendship. The next letter, July 28, 1533, begins thus:--"My dear Lord,--Had
I not believed that I had made you certain of the very great, nay, measureless love I bear
you, it would not have seemed strange to me nor have roused astonishment to observe the great
uneasiness you show in your last letter, lest, through my not having written, I should have
forgotten you. Still it is nothing new or marvellous when so many other things go counter,
that this also should be topsy-turvy. For what your lordship says to me, I could say to yourself:
nevertheless, you do this perhaps to try me, or to light a new and stronger flame, if that
indeed were possible: but be it as it wills: I know well that, at this hour, I could as easily
forget your name as the food by which I live; nay, it were easier to forget the food, which
only nourishes my body miserably, than your name, which nourishes both body and soul, filling
the one and the other with such sweetness that neither weariness nor fear of death is felt
by me while memory preserves you to my mind. Think, if the eyes could also enjoy their portion,
in what condition I should find myself."

This second letter has also been extremely laboured; for we have three other turns given in
its drafts to the image of food and memory. That these two documents were really addressed
to Cavalieri, without any thought of Vittoria Colonna, is proved by three letters sent to Michelangelo
by the young man in question. One is dated August 2, 1533, another September 2, and the third
bears no date. The two which I have mentioned first belong to the summer of 1533; the third
seems to be the earliest. It was clearly written on some occasion when both men were in Rome
together, and at the very beginning of their friendship. I will translate them in their order.
The first undated letter was sent to Michelangelo in Rome, in answer to some writing of the
illustrious sculptor which we do not possess:--

"I have received from you a letter, which is the more acceptable because it was so wholly unexpected.
I say unexpected, because I hold myself unworthy of such condescension in a man of your eminence.
With regard to what Pierantonio spoke to you in my praise, and those things of mine which you
have seen, and which you say have aroused in you no small affection for me, I answer that they
were insufficient to impel a man of such transcendent genius, without a second, not to speak
of a peer, upon this earth, to address a youth who was born but yesterday, and therefore is
as ignorant as it is possible to be. At the same time I cannot call you a liar. I rather think
then, nay, am certain, that the love you bear me is due to this, that you being a man most
excellent in art, nay, art itself, are forced to love those who follow it and love it, among
whom am I; and in this, according to my capacity, I yield to few. I promise you truly that
you shall receive from me for your kindness affection equal, and perhaps greater, in exchange;
for I never loved a man more than I do you, nor desired a friendship more than I do yours.
About this, though my judgment may fail in other things, it is unerring; and you shall see
the proof, except only that fortune is adverse to me in that now, when I might enjoy you, I
am far from well. I hope, however, if she does not begin to trouble me again, that within a
few days I shall be cured, and shall come to pay you my respects in person. Meanwhile I shall
spend at least two hours a day in studying two of your drawings, which Pierantonio brought
me: the more I look at them, the more they delight me; and I shall soothe my complaint by cherishing
the hope which Pierantonio gave me, of letting me see other things of yours. In order not to
be troublesome, I will write no more. Only I beg you remember, on occasion, to make use of
me; and recommend myself in perpetuity to you.--Your most affectionate servant.

                                     "Thomao Cavaliere."

The next letters were addressed to Michelangelo in Florence:--"Unique, my Lord,--I have received
from you a letter, very acceptable, from which I gather that you are not a little saddened
at my having written to you about forgetting. I answer that I did not write this for either
of the following reasons: to wit, because you have not sent me anything, or in order to fan
the flame of your affection. I only wrote to jest with you, as certainly I think I may do.
Therefore, do not be saddened, for I am quite sure you will not be able to forget me. Regarding
what you write to me about that young Nerli, he is much my friend, and having to leave Rome,
he came to ask whether I needed anything from Florence. I said no, and he begged me to allow
him to go in my name to pay you my respects, merely on account of his own desire to speak with
you. I have nothing more to write, except that I beg you to return quickly. When you come you
will deliver me from prison, because I wish to avoid bad companions; and having this desire,
I cannot converse with any one but you. I recommend myself to you a thousand times.--Yours
more than his own,

                                           "Thomao Cavaliere.
                                           "Rome, August 2, 1533."

It appears from the third letter, also sent to Florence, that during the course of the month
Michelangelo had despatched some of the drawings he made expressly for his friend:--"Unique,
my Lord,--Some days ago I received a letter from you, which was very welcome, both because
I learned from it that you were well, and also because I can now be sure that you will soon
return. I was very sorry not to be able to answer at once. However, it consoles me to think
that, when you know the cause, you will hold me excused. On the day your letter reached me,
I was attacked with vomiting and such high fever that I was on the point of death; and certainly
I should have died, if it (i.e., the letter) had not somewhat revived me. Since then, thank
God, I have been always well. Messer Bartolommeo (Angelini) has now brought me a sonnet sent
by you, which has made me feel it my duty to write. Some three days since I received my Phaëthon,
which is exceedingly well done. The Pope, the Cardinal de' Medici, and every one, have seen
it; I do not know what made them want to do so. The Cardinal expressed a wish to inspect all
your drawings, and they pleased him so much that he said he should like to have the Tityos
and Ganymede done in crystal. I could not manage to prevent him from using the Tityos, and
it is now being executed by Maestro Giovanni. Hard I struggled to save the Ganymede. The other
day I went, as you requested, to Fra Sebastiano. He sends a thousand messages, but only to
pray you to come back.--Your affectionate,

                          "Thomao Cavaliere.
                          "Rome, September 6."

All the drawings mentioned by Vasari as having been made for Cavalieri are alluded to here,
except the Bacchanal of Children. Of the Phaëthon we have two splendid examples in existence,
one at Windsor, the other in the collection of M. Emile Galichon. They differ considerably
in details, but have the same almost mathematical exactitude of pyramidal composition. That
belonging to M. Galichon must have been made in Rome, for it has this rough scrawl in Michelangelo's
hand at the bottom, "Tomao, se questo scizzo non vi piace, ditelo a Urbino." He then promises
to make another. Perhaps Cavalieri sent word back that he did not like something in the sketch--possibly
the women writhing into trees--and that to this circumstance we owe the Windsor drawing, which
is purer in style. There is a fine Tityos with the vulture at Windsor, so exquisitely finished
and perfectly preserved that one can scarcely believe it passed through the hands of Maestro
Giovanni. Windsor, too, possesses a very delicate Ganymede, which seems intended for an intaglio.
The subject is repeated in an unfinished pen-design at the Uffizi, incorrectly attributed to
Michelangelo, and is represented by several old engravings. The Infant Bacchanals again exist
at Windsor, and fragmentary jottings upon the margin of other sketches intended for the same
theme survive.

VI

A correspondence between Bartolommeo Angelini in Rome and Michelangelo in Florence during the
summers of 1532 and 1533 throws some light upon the latter's movements, and also upon his friendship
for Tommaso Cavalieri. The first letter of this series, written on the 21st of August 1532,
shows that Michelangelo was then expected in Rome. "Fra Sebastiano says that you wish to dismount
at your own house. Knowing then that there is nothing but the walls, I hunted up a small amount
of furniture, which I have had sent thither, in order that you may be able to sleep and sit
down and enjoy some other conveniences. For eating, you will be able to provide yourself to
your own liking in the neighbourhood." From the next letter (September 18, 1532) it appears
that Michelangelo was then in Rome. There ensues a gap in the correspondence, which is not
resumed until July 12, 1533. It now appears that Buonarroti had recently left Rome at the close
of another of his visits. Angelini immediately begins to speak of Tommaso Cavalieri. "I gave
that soul you wrote of to M. Tommao, who sends you his very best regards, and begs me to communicate
any letters I may receive from you to him. Your house is watched continually every night, and
I often go to visit it by day. The hens and master cock are in fine feather, and the cats complain
greatly over your absence, albeit they have plenty to eat." Angelini never writes now without
mentioning Cavalieri. Since this name does not occur in the correspondence before the date
of July 12, 1533, it is possible that Michelangelo made the acquaintance during his residence
at Rome in the preceding winter. His letters to Angelini must have conveyed frequent expressions
of anxiety concerning Cavalieri's affection; for the replies invariably contain some reassuring
words (July 26): "Yours makes me understand how great is the love you bear him; and in truth,
so far as I have seen, he does not love you less than you love him." Again (August 11, 1533):
"I gave your letter to M. Thomao, who sends you his kindest remembrances, and shows the very
strongest desire for your return, saying that when he is with you, then he is really happy,
because he possesses all that he wishes for upon this world. So then, it seems to me that,
while you are fretting to return, he is burning with desire for you to do so. Why do you not
begin in earnest to make plans for leaving Florence? It would give peace to yourself and all
of us, if you were here. I have seen your soul, which is in good health and under good guardianship.
The body waits for your arrival."

This mysterious reference to the soul, which Angelini gave, at Buonarroti's request, to young
Cavalieri, and which he now describes as prospering, throws some light upon the passionate
phrases of the following mutilated letter, addressed to Angelini by Michelangelo upon the 11th
of October. The writer, alluding to Messer Tommao, says that, having given him his heart, he
can hardly go on living in his absence: "And so, if I yearn day and night without intermission
to be in Rome, it is only in order to return again to life, which I cannot enjoy without the
soul." This conceit is carried on for some time, and the letter winds up with the following
sentence: "My dear Bartolommeo, although you may think that I am joking with you, this is not
the case. I am talking sober sense, for I have grown twenty years older and twenty pounds lighter
since I have been here." This epistle, as we shall see in due course, was acknowledged. All
Michelangelo's intimates in Rome became acquainted with the details of this friendship. Writing
to Sebastiano from Florence in this year, he says: "I beg you, if you see Messer T. Cavalieri,
to recommend me to him infinitely; and when you write, tell me something about him to keep
him in my memory; for if I were to lose him from my mind, I believe that I should fall down
dead straightway." In Sebastiano's letters there is one allusion to Cavalieri, who had come
to visit him in the company of Bartolommeo Angelini, when he was ill.

It is not necessary to follow all the references to Tommaso Cavalieri contained in Angelini's
letters. They amount to little more than kind messages and warm wishes for Michelangelo's return.
Soon, however, Michelangelo began to send poems, which Angelini acknowledges (September 6):
"I have received the very welcome letter you wrote me, together with your graceful and beautiful
sonnet, of which I kept a copy, and then sent it on to M. Thomao. He was delighted to possess
it, being thereby assured that God has deigned to bestow upon him the friendship of a man endowed
with so many noble gifts as you are." Again he writes (October 18): "Yours of the 12th is to
hand, together with M. Thomao's letter and the most beautiful sonnets. I have kept copies,
and sent them on to him for whom they were intended, because I know with what affection he
regards all things that pertain to you. He promised to send an answer which shall be enclosed
in this I now am writing. He is counting not the days merely, but the hours, till you return."
In another letter, without date, Angelini says, "I gave your messages to M. Thomao, who replied
that your presence would be dearer to him than your writing, and that if it seems to you a
thousand years, to him it seems ten thousand, till you come. I received your gallant (galante)
and beautiful sonnet; and though you said nothing about it, I saw at once for whom it was intended,
and gave it to him. Like everything of yours, it delighted him. The tenor of the sonnet shows
that love keeps you perpetually restless. I do not think this ought to be the effect of love,
and so I send you one of my poor performances to prove the contrary opinion." We may perhaps
assume that this sonnet was the famous No. xxxi., from the last line of which every one could
perceive that Michelangelo meant it for Tommaso Cavalieri.

VII

It is significant that, while Michelangelo's affection for the young Roman was thus acquiring
force, another friendship, which must have once been very dear to him, sprang up and then declined,
but not apparently through his own fault or coldness. We hear of Febo di Poggio in the following
autumn for the first and last time. Before proceeding to speak of him, I will wind up what
has to be said about Tommaso Cavalieri. Not long after the date of the last letter quoted above,
Michelangelo returned to Rome, and settled there for the rest of his life. He continued to
the end of his days in close friendship with Cavalieri, who helped to nurse him during his
last illness, who took charge of his effects after his death, and who carried on the architectural
work he had begun at the Capitol.

Their friendship seems to have been uninterrupted by any disagreement, except on one occasion
when Michelangelo gave way to his suspicious irritability, quite at the close of his long life.
This drew forth from Cavalieri the following manly and touching letter:--

"Very magnificent, my Lord,--I have noticed during several days past that you have some grievance--what,
I do not know--against me. Yesterday I became certain of it when I went to your house. As I
cannot imagine the cause, I have thought it best to write this, in order that, if you like,
you may inform me. I am more than positive that I never offended you. But you lend easy credence
to those whom perhaps you ought least to trust; and some one has possibly told you some lie,
for fear I should one day reveal the many knaveries done under your name, the which do you
little honour; and if you desire to know about them, you shall. Only I cannot, nor, if I could,
should I wish to force myself--but I tell you frankly that if you do not want me for a friend,
you can do as you like, but you cannot compel me not to be a friend to you. I shall always
try to do you service; and only yesterday I came to show you a letter written by the Duke of
Florence, and to lighten your burdens, as I have ever done until now. Be sure you have no better
friend than me; but on this I will not dwell. Still, if you think otherwise, I hope that in
a short time you will explain matters; and I know that you know I have always been your friend
without the least interest of my own. Now I will say no more, lest I should seem to be excusing
myself for something which does not exist, and which I am utterly unable to imagine. I pray
and conjure you, by the love you bear to God, that you tell me what you have against me, in
order that I may disabuse you. Not having more to write, I remain your servant,

                             "Thomao De' Cavalieri.
                             "From my house, November 15, 1561."

It is clear from this letter, and from the relations which subsisted between Michelangelo and
Cavalieri up to the day of his death, that the latter was a gentleman of good repute and honour,
whose affection did credit to his friend. I am unable to see that anything but an injury to
both is done by explaining away the obvious meaning of the letters and the sonnets I have quoted.
The supposition that Michelangelo intended the Cavalieri letters to reach Vittoria Colonna
through that friend's hands does not, indeed, deserve the complete refutation which I have
given it. I am glad, however, to be able to adduce the opinion of a caustic Florentine scholar
upon this topic, which agrees with my own, and which was formed without access to the original
documents which I have been enabled to make use of. Fanfani says: "I have searched, but in
vain, for documentary proofs of the passion which Michelangelo is supposed to have felt for
Vittoria Colonna, and which she returned with ardour according to the assertion of some critics.
My own belief, concurring with that of better judges than myself, is that we have here to deal
with one of the many baseless stories told about him. Omitting the difficulties presented by
his advanced age, it is wholly contrary to all we know about the Marchioness, and not a little
damaging to her reputation for austerity, to suppose that this admirable matron, who, after
the death of her husband, gave herself up to God, and abjured the commerce of the world, should,
later in life, have carried on an intrigue, as the saying is, upon the sly, particularly when
a third person is imposed on our credulity, acting the part of go-between and cloak in the
transaction, as certain biographers of the great artist, and certain commentators of his poetry,
are pleased to assert, with how much common-sense and what seriousness I will not ask."

VIII

The history of Luigi del Riccio's affection for a lad of Florence called Cecchino dei Bracci,
since this is interwoven with Michelangelo's own biography and the criticism of his poems,
may be adduced in support of the argument I am developing. Cecchino was a youth of singular
promise and personal charm. His relative, the Florentine merchant, Luigi del Riccio, one of
Buonarroti's most intimate friends and advisers, became devotedly attached to the boy. Michelangelo,
after his return to Rome in 1534, shared this friend Luigi's admiration for Cecchino; and the
close intimacy into which the two elder men were drawn, at a somewhat later period of Buonarroti's
life, seems to have been cemented by their common interest in poetry and their common feeling
for a charming personality. We have a letter of uncertain date, in which Michelangelo tells
Del Riccio that he has sent him a madrigal, begging him, if he thinks fit, to commit the verses
"to the fire--that is, to what consumes me." Then he asks him to resolve a certain problem
which has occurred to his mind during the night, "for while I was saluting our idol in a dream,
it seemed to me that he laughed, and in the same instant threatened me; and not knowing which
of these two moods I have to abide by, I beg you to find out from him; and on Sunday, when
we meet again, you will inform me." Cecchino, who is probably alluded to in this letter, died
at Rome on the 8th of January 1542, and was buried in the Church of Araceli. Luigi felt the
blow acutely. Upon the 12th of January he wrote to his friend Donate Giannotti, then at Vicenza,
in the following words:--

"Alas, my friend Donato! Our Cecchino is dead. All Rome weeps. Michelangelo is making for me
the design of a decent sepulture in marble; and I pray you to write me the epitaph, and to
send it to me with a consolatory letter, if time permits, for my grief has distraught me. Patience!
I live with a thousand and a thousand deaths each hour. O God! How has Fortune changed her
aspect!" Giannotti replied, enclosing three fine sonnets, the second of which, beginning--

  Messer Luigi mio, di noi che fia
    Che sian restati senza il nostro sole?

seems to have taken Michelangelo's fancy. Many good pens in Italy poured forth laments on this
occasion. We have verses written by Giovanni Aldobrandini, Carlo Gondi, Fra Paolo del Rosso,
and Anton Francesco Grazzini, called Il Lasca. Not the least touching is Luigi's own threnody,
which starts upon this note:--

  Idol mio, che la tua leggiadra spoglia
  Mi lasciasti anzi tempo.

Michelangelo, seeking to indulge his own grief and to soothe that of his friend Luigi, composed
no fewer than forty-two epigrams of four lines each, in which he celebrated the beauty and
rare personal sweetness of Cecchino in laboured philosophical conceits. They rank but low among
his poems, having too much of scholastic trifling and too little of the accent of strong feeling
in them. Certainly these pieces did not deserve the pains which Michelangelo the younger bestowed,
when he altered the text of a selection from them so as to adapt their Platonic compliments
to some female. Far superior is a sonnet written to Del Riccio upon the death of the youth,
showing how recent had been Michelangelo's acquaintance with Cecchino, and containing an unfulfilled
promise to carve his portrait:--

  Scarce had I seen for the first time his eyes,
    Which to your living eyes were life and light,
    When, closed at last in death's injurious night,
    He opened them on God in Paradise.
  I know it, and I weep--too late made wise:
    Yet was the fault not mine; for death's fell spite
    Robbed my desire of that supreme delight
    Which in your better memory never dies.
  Therefore, Luigi, if the task be mine
    To make unique Cecchino smile in stone
    For ever, now that earth hath made him dim,
  If the beloved within the lover shine,
    Since art without him cannot work alone,
    You must I carve to tell the world of him.

The strange blending of artificial conceits with spontaneous feeling in these poetical effusions,
the deep interest taken in a mere lad like Cecchino by so many eminent personages, and the
frank publicity given to a friendship based apparently upon the beauty of its object, strike
us now as almost unintelligible. Yet we have the history of Shakespeare's Sonnets, and the
letters addressed by Languet to young Sidney, in evidence that fashion at the end of the sixteenth
century differed widely from that which prevails at the close of the nineteenth.

IX

Some further light may here be thrown upon Michelangelo's intimacy with young men by two fragments
extracted independently from the Buonarroti Archives by Milanesi and Guasti. In the collection
of the letters we find the following sorrowful epistle, written in December 1533, upon the
eve of Michelangelo's departure from Florence. It is addressed to a certain Febo:--

"Febo,--Albeit you bear the greatest hatred toward my person--I know not why--I scarcely believe,
because of the love I cherish for you, but probably through the words of others, to which you
ought to give no credence, having proved me--yet I cannot do otherwise than write to you this
letter. I am leaving Florence to-morrow, and am going to Pescia to meet the Cardinal di Cesis
and Messer Baldassare. I shall journey with them to Pisa, and thence to Rome, and I shall never
return again to Florence. I wish you to understand that, so long as I live, wherever I may
be, I shall always remain at your service with loyalty and love, in a measure unequalled by
any other friend whom you may have upon this world.

"I pray God to open your eyes from some other quarter, in order that you may come to comprehend
that he who desires your good more than his own welfare, is able to love, not to hate like
an enemy."

Milanesi prints no more of the manuscript in his edition of the Letters. But Guasti, conscientiously
collecting fragments of Michelangelo's verses, gives six lines, which he found at the foot
of the epistle:--

  Vo' sol del mie morir contento veggio:
    La terra piange, e'l ciel per me si muove;
    E vo' men pietà stringe ov' io sto peggio.
  O sol che scaldi il mondo in ogni dove,
    O Febo, o luce eterna de' mortali,
  Perchè a me sol ti scuri e non altrove?

       *       *       *       *       *

  Naught comforts you, I see, unless I die:
    Earth weeps, the heavens for me are moved to woe;
    You feel of grief the less, the more grieve I.
  O sun that warms the world where'er you go,
    O Febo, light eterne for mortal eyes!
    Why dark to me alone, elsewhere not so?

These verses seem to have been written as part of a long Capitolo which Michelangelo himself,
the elder, used indifferently in addressing Febo and his abstract "donna." Who Febo was, we
do not know. But the sincere accent of the letter and the lyric cry of the rough lines leave
us to imagine that he was some one for whom Michelangelo felt very tenderly in Florence.

Milanesi prints this letter to Febo with the following title, "A Febo (di Poggio)." This proves
that he at any rate knew it had been answered by some one signing "Febo di Poggio." The autograph,
in an illiterate hand and badly spelt, is preserved among the Buonarroti Archives, and bears
date January 14, 1534. Febo excuses himself for not having been able to call on Michelangelo
the night before he left Florence, and professes to have come the next day and found him already
gone. He adds that he is in want of money, both to buy clothes and to go to see the games upon
the Monte. He prays for a gratuity, and winds up: "Vostro da figliuolo (yours like a son),
Febo di Poggio." I will add a full translation here:--

"Magnificent M. Michelangelo, to be honoured as a father,--I came back yesterday from Pisa,
whither I had gone to see my father. Immediately upon my arrival, that friend of yours at the
bank put a letter from you into my hands, which I received with the greatest pleasure, having
heard of your well-being. God be praised, I may say the same about myself. Afterwards I learned
what you say about my being angry with you. You know well I could not be angry with you, since
I regard you in the place of a father. Besides, your conduct toward me has not been of the
sort to cause in me any such effect. That evening when you left Florence, in the morning I
could not get away from M. Vincenzo, though I had the greatest desire to speak with you. Next
morning I came to your house, and you were already gone, and great was my disappointment at
your leaving Florence without my seeing you.

"I am here in Florence; and when you left, you told me that if I wanted anything, I might ask
it of that friend of yours; and now that M. Vincenzo is away, I am in want of money, both to
clothe myself, and also to go to the Monte, to see those people fighting, for M. Vincenzo is
there. Accordingly, I went to visit that friend at the bank, and he told me that he had no
commission whatsoever from you; but that a messenger was starting to-night for Rome, and that
an answer could come back within five days. So then, if you give him orders, he will not fail,
I beseech you, then, to provide and assist me with any sum you think fit, and do not fail to
answer.

"I will not write more, except that with all my heart and power I recommend myself to you,
praying God to keep you from harm.--Yours in the place of a son,

                      "Febo Di Poggio.
                      "Florence, January 4, 154."

X

In all the compositions I have quoted as illustrative of Michelangelo's relations with young
men, there is a singular humility which gives umbrage to his editors. The one epistle to Gherardo
Perini, cited above, contains the following phrases: "I do not feel myself of force enough
to correspond to your kind letter;" "Your most faithful and poor friend."

Yet there was nothing extraordinary in Cavalieri, Cecchino, Febo, or Perini, except their singularity
of youth and grace, good parts and beauty. The vulgar are offended when an illustrious man
pays homage to these qualities, forgetful of Shakespeare's self-abasement before Mr. W.H. and
of Languet's prostration at the feet of Sidney. In the case of Michelangelo, we may find a
solution of this problem, I think, in one of his sonnets. He says, writing a poem belonging
very probably to the series which inspires Michelangelo the younger with alarm:--

  As one who will re-seek her home of light,
    Thy form immortal to this prison-house
    Descended, like an angel-piteous,
    To heal all hearts and make the whole world bright,
  'Tis this that thralls my soul in love's delight,
    Not thy clear face of beauty glorious;
    For he who harbours virtue still will choose
    To love what neither years nor death can blight.
  So fares it ever with things high and rare
    Wrought in the sweat of nature; heaven above
    Showers on their birth the blessings of her prime:
  Nor hath God deigned to show Himself elsewhere
    More clearly than in human forms sublime,
    Which, since they image Him, alone I love.

It was not, then, to this or that young man, to this or that woman, that Michelangelo paid
homage, but to the eternal beauty revealed in the mortal image of divinity before his eyes.
The attitude of the mind, the quality of passion, implied in these poems, and conveyed more
clumsily through the prose of the letters, may be difficult to comprehend. But until we have
arrived at seizing them we shall fail to understand the psychology of natures like Michelangelo.
No language of admiration is too strong, no self-humiliation too complete, for a soul which
has recognised deity made manifest in one of its main attributes, beauty. In the sight of a
philosopher, a poet, and an artist, what are kings, popes, people of importance, compared with
a really perfect piece of God's handiwork?

  From thy fair face I learn, O my loved lord,
    That which no mortal tongue can rightly say;
     The soul imprisoned in her house of clay,
    Holpen by thee, to God hath often soared.
  And though the vulgar, vain, malignant horde
    Attribute what their grosser wills obey,
    Yet shall this fervent homage that I pay,
    This love, this faith, pure joys for us afford.
  Lo, all the lovely things we find on earth,
    Resemble for the soul that rightly sees
    That source of bliss divine which gave us birth:
  Nor have we first-fruits or remembrances
    Of heaven elsewhere. Thus, loving loyally,
    I rise to God, and make death sweet by thee.

We know that, in some way or other, perhaps during those early years at Florence among the
members of the Platonic Academy, Michelangelo absorbed the doctrines of the Phoedrus and Symposium.
His poems abound in references to the contrast between Uranian and Pandemic, celestial and
vulgar, Eros. We have even one sonnet in which he distinctly states the Greek opinion that
the love of women is unworthy of a soul bent upon high thoughts and virile actions. It reads
like a verse transcript from the main argument of the Symposium:--

  Love is not always harsh and deadly sin,
    When love for boundless beauty makes us pine;
    The heart, by love left soft and infantine,
    Will let the shafts of God's grace enter in.
  Love wings and wakes the soul, stirs her to win
    Her flight aloft, nor e'er to earth decline;
    'Tis the first step that leads her to the shrine
    Of Him who slakes the thirst that burns within.

  The love of that whereof I speak ascends:
    Woman is different far; the love of her
    But ill befits a heart manly and wise.

The same exalted Platonism finds obscure but impassioned expression in this fragment of a sonnet
(No. lxxix.):----

  For Love's fierce wound, and for the shafts that harm,
    True medicine 'twould have been to pierce my heart;
    But my soul's Lord owns only one strong charm,
    Which makes life grow where grows life's mortal smart.
  My Lord dealt death, when with his-powerful arm
    He bent Love's bow. Winged with that shaft, from Love
    An angel flew, cried, "Love, nay Burn! Who dies,
    Hath but Love's plumes whereby to soar above!
  Lo, I am He who from thine earliest years
    Toward, heaven-born Beauty raised thy faltering eyes.
    Beauty alone lifts live man to heaven's spheres."

Feeling like this, Michelangelo would have been justly indignant with officious relatives and
critics, who turned his amici into animi, redirected his Cavalieri letters to the address of
Vittoria Colonna, discovered Florence in Febo di Poggio, and ascribed all his emotional poems
to some woman.

There is no doubt that both the actions and the writings of contemporaries justified a considerable
amount of scepticism regarding the purity of Platonic affections. The words and lives of many
illustrious persons gave colour to what Segni stated in his History of Florence, and what Savonarola
found it necessary to urge upon the people from his pulpit.

But we have every reason to feel certain that, in a malicious age, surrounded by jealous rivals,
with the fierce light of his transcendent glory beating round his throne, Buonarroti suffered
from no scandalous reports, and maintained an untarnished character for sobriety of conduct
and purity of morals.

The general opinion regarding him may be gathered from Scipione Ammirati's History (under the
year 1564). This annalist records the fact that "Buonarotti having lived for ninety years,
there was never found through all that length of time, and with all that liberty to sin, any
one who could with right and justice impute to him a stain or any ugliness of manners."

How he appeared to one who lived and worked with him for a long period of intimacy, could not
be better set forth than in the warm and ingenuous words of Condivi: "He has loved the beauty
of the human body with particular devotion, as is natural with one who knows that beauty so
completely; and has loved it in such wise that certain carnally minded men, who do not comprehend
the love of beauty, except it be lascivious and indecorous, have been led thereby to think
and to speak evil of him: just as though Alcibiades, that comeliest young man, had not been
loved in all purity by Socrates, from whose side, when they reposed together, he was wont to
say that he arose not otherwise than from the side of his own father. Oftentimes have I heard
Michelangelo discoursing and expounding on the theme of love, and have afterwards gathered
from those who were present upon these occasions that he spoke precisely as Plato wrote, and
as we may read in Plato's works upon this subject. I, for myself, do not know what Plato says;
but I know full well that, having so long and so intimately conversed with Michelangelo, I
never once heard issue from that mouth words that were not of the truest honesty, and such
as had virtue to extinguish in the heart of youth any disordered and uncurbed desire which
might assail it. I am sure, too, that no vile thoughts were born in him, by this token, that
he loved not only the beauty of human beings, but in general all fair things, as a beautiful
horse, a beautiful dog, a beautiful piece of country, a beautiful plant, a beautiful mountain,
a beautiful wood, and every site or thing in its kind fair and rare, admiring them with marvellous
affection. This was his way; to choose what is beautiful from nature, as bees collect the honey
from flowers, and use it for their purpose in their workings: which indeed was always the method
of those masters who have acquired any fame in painting. That old Greek artist, when he wanted
to depict a Venus, was not satisfied with the sight of one maiden only. On the contrary, he
sought to study many; and culling from each the particular in which she was most perfect, to
make use of these details in his Venus. Of a truth, he who imagines to arrive at any excellence
without following this system (which is the source of a true theory in the arts), shoots very
wide indeed of his mark."

Condivi perhaps exaggerated the influence of lovely nature, horses, dogs, flowers, hills, woods,
&c., on Michelangelo's genius. His work, as we know, is singularly deficient in motives drawn
from any province but human beauty; and his poems and letters contain hardly a trace of sympathy
with the external world. Yet, in the main contention, Condivi told the truth. Michelangelo's
poems and letters, and the whole series of his works in fresco and marble, suggest no single
detail which is sensuous, seductive, enfeebling to the moral principles. Their tone may be
passionate; it is indeed often red-hot with a passion like that of Lucretius and Beethoven;
but the genius of the man transports the mind to spiritual altitudes, where the lust of the
eye and the longings of the flesh are left behind us in a lower region. Only a soul attuned
to the same chord of intellectual rapture can breathe in that fiery atmosphere and feel the
vibrations of its electricity.

XI

I have used Michelangelo's poems freely throughout this work as documents illustrative of his
opinions and sentiments, and also in their bearing on the events of his life. I have made them
reveal the man in his personal relations to Pope Julius II., to Vittoria Colonna, to Tommaso
dei Cavalieri, to Luigi del Riccio, to Febo di Poggio. I have let them tell their own tale,
when sorrow came upon him in the death of his father and Urbino, and when old age shook his
lofty spirit with the thought of approaching death. I have appealed to them for lighter incidents:
matters of courtesy, the completion of the Sistine vault, the statue of Night at S. Lorenzo,
the subjection of Florence to the Medici, his heart-felt admiration for Dante's genius. Examples
of his poetic work, so far as these can be applied to the explanation of his psychology, his
theory of art, his sympathies, his feeling under several moods of passion, will consequently
be found scattered up and down by volumes. Translation, indeed, is difficult to the writer,
and unsatisfactory to the reader. But I have been at pains to direct an honest student to the
original sources, so that he may, if he wishes, compare my versions with the text. Therefore
I do not think it necessary to load this chapter with voluminous citations. Still, there remains
something to be said about Michelangelo as poet, and about the place he occupies as poet in
Italian literature.

The value of Michelangelo's poetry is rather psychological than purely literary. He never claimed
to be more than an amateur, writing to amuse himself. His style is obscure, crabbed, ungrammatical.
Expression only finds a smooth and flowing outlet when the man's nature is profoundly stirred
by some powerful emotion, as in the sonnets to Cavalieri, or the sonnets on the deaths of Vittoria
Colonna and Urbino, or the sonnets on the thought of his own death. For the most part, it is
clear that he found great difficulty in mastering his thoughts and images. This we discover
from the innumerable variants of the same madrigal or sonnet which he made, and his habit of
returning to them at intervals long after their composition. A good fourth of the Codex Vaticanus
consists of repetitions and rifacimenti. He was also wont to submit what he wrote to the judgment
of his friends, requesting them to alter and improve. He often had recourse to Luigi del Riccio's
assistance in such matters. I may here adduce an inedited letter from two friends in Rome,
Giovanni Francesco Bini and Giovanni Francesco Stella, who returned a poem they had handled
in this manner: "We have done our best to alter some things in your sonnet, but not to set
it all to rights, since there was not much wanting. Now that it is changed or put in order,
according as the kindness of your nature wished, the result will be more due to your own judgment
than to ours, since you have the true conception of the subject in your mind. We shall be greatly
pleased if you find yourself as well served as we earnestly desire that you should command
us." It was the custom of amateur poets to have recourse to literary craftsmen before they
ventured to circulate their compositions. An amusing instance of this will be found in Professor
Biagi's monograph upon Tullia d'Aragona, all of whose verses passed through the crucible of
Benedetto Varchi's revision.

The thoughts and images out of which Michelangelo's poetry is woven are characteristically
abstract and arid. He borrows no illustrations from external nature. The beauty of the world
and all that lives in it might have been non-existent so far as he was concerned. Nor do his
octave stanzas in praise of rural life form an exception to this statement; for these are imitated
from Poliziano, so far as they attempt pictures of the country, and their chief poetical feature
is the masque of vices belonging to human nature in the city. His stock-in-trade consists of
a few Platonic notions and a few Petrarchan antitheses. In the very large number of compositions
which are devoted to love, this one idea predominates: that physical beauty is a direct beam
sent from the eternal source of all reality, in order to elevate the lover's soul and lead
him on the upward path toward heaven. Carnal passion he regards with the aversion of an ascetic.
It is impossible to say for certain to whom these mystical love-poems were addressed. Whether
a man or a woman is in the case (for both were probably the objects of his aesthetical admiration),
the tone of feeling, the language, and the philosophy do not vary. He uses the same imagery,
the same conceits, the same abstract ideas for both sexes, and adapts the leading motive which
he had invented for a person of one sex to a person of the other when it suits his purpose.
In our absolute incapacity to fix any amative connection upon Michelangelo, or to link his
name with that of any contemporary beauty, we arrive at the conclusion, strange as this may
be, that the greater part of his love-poetry is a scholastic exercise upon emotions transmuted
into metaphysical and mystical conceptions. Only two pieces in the long series break this monotony
by a touch of realism. They are divided by a period of more than thirty years. The first seems
to date from an early epoch of his life:--

  What joy hath yon glad wreath of flowers that is
    Around her golden hair so deftly twined,
    Each blossom pressing forward from behind,
    As though to be the first her brows to kiss!
  The livelong day her dress hath perfect bliss,
    That now reveals her breast, now seems to bind:
    And that fair woven net of gold refined
    Rests on her cheek and throat in happiness!
  Yet still more blissful seems to me the band,
    Gilt at the tips, so sweetly doth it ring,
    And clasp the bosom that it serves to lace:
  Yea, and the belt, to such as understand,
    Bound round her waist, saith: Here I'd ever cling!
    What would my arms do in that girdle's place?

The second can be ascribed with probability to the year 1534 or 1535. It is written upon the
back of a rather singular letter addressed to him by a certain Pierantonio, when both men were
in Rome together:--

  Kind to the world, but to itself unkind,
    A worm is born, that, dying noiselessly,
    Despoils itself to clothe fair limbs, and be
    In its true worth alone by death divined.
  Would I might die for my dear lord to find
    Raiment in my outworn mortality;
    That, changing like the snake, I might be free
    To cast the slough wherein I dwell confined!
  Nay, were it mine, that shaggy fleece that stays,
    Woven and wrought into a vestment fair,
    Around yon breast so beauteous in such bliss!
  All through the day thou'd have me! Would I were
    The shoes that bear that burden! when the ways
    Were wet with rain, thy feet I then should kiss!

I have already alluded to the fact that we can trace two widely different styles of writing
in Michelangelo's poetry. Some of his sonnets, like the two just quoted, and those we can refer
with certainty to the Cavalieri series, together with occasional compositions upon the deaths
of Cecchino and Urbino, seem to come straight from the heart, and their manuscripts offer few
variants to the editor. Others, of a different quality, where he is dealing with Platonic subtleties
or Petrarchan conceits, have been twisted into so many forms, and tortured by such frequent
re-handlings, that it is difficult now to settle a final text. The Codex Vaticanus is peculiarly
rich in examples of these compositions. Madrigal lvii. and Sonnet lx., for example, recur with
wearisome reiteration. These laboured and scholastic exercises, unlike the more spontaneous
utterances of his feelings, are worked up into different forms, and the same conceits are not
seldom used for various persons and on divers occasions.

One of the great difficulties under which a critic labours in discussing these personal poems
is that their chronology cannot be ascertained in the majority of instances. Another is that
we are continually hampered by the false traditions invented by Michelangelo the younger. Books
like Lannan Rolland's "Michel-Ange et Vittoria Colonna" have no value whatsoever, because they
are based upon that unlucky grand-nephew's deliberately corrupted text. Even Wadsworth's translations,
fine as they are, have lost a large portion of their interest since the publication of the
autographs by Cesare Guasti in 1863. It is certain that the younger Michelangelo meant well
to his illustrious ancestor. He was anxious to give his rugged compositions the elegance and
suavity of academical versification. He wished also to defend his character from the imputation
of immorality. Therefore he rearranged the order of stanzas in the longer poems, pieced fragments
together, changed whole lines, ideas, images, amplified and mutilated, altered phrases which
seemed to him suspicious. Only one who has examined the manuscripts of the Buonarroti Archives
knows what pains he bestowed upon this ungrateful and disastrous task. But the net result of
his meddlesome benevolence is that now for nearly three centuries the greatest genius of the
Italian Renaissance has worn a mask concealing the real nature of his emotion, and that a false
legend concerning his relations to Vittoria Colonna has become inextricably interwoven with
the story of his life.

The extraordinary importance attached by Michelangelo in old age to the passions of his youth
is almost sufficient to justify those psychological investigators who regard him as the subject
of a nervous disorder. It does not seem to be accounted for by anything known to us regarding
his stern and solitary life, his aloofness from the vulgar, and his self-dedication to study.
In addition to the splendid devotional sonnets addressed to Vasari, which will appear in their
proper place, I may corroborate these remarks by the translation of a set of three madrigals
bearing on the topic.

  Ah me, ah me! how have I been betrayed
  By my swift-flitting years, and by the glass,
  Which yet tells truth to those who firmly gaze!
  Thus happens it when one too long delays,
  As I have done, nor feels time fleet and, fade:--
  One morn he finds himself grown old, alas!
  To gird my loins, repent, my path repass,
  Sound counsel take, I cannot, now death's near;
  Foe to myself, each tear,
  Each sigh, is idly to the light wind sent,
  For there's no loss to equal time ill-spent.

  Ah me, ah me! I wander telling o'er
  Past years, and yet in all I cannot view
  One day that might be rightly reckoned mine.
  Delusive hopes and vain desires entwine
  My soul that loves, weeps, burns, and sighs full sore.
  Too well I know and prove that this is true,
  Since of man's passions none to me are new.
  Far from the truth my steps have gone astray,
  In peril now I stay,
  For, lo! the brief span of my life is o'er.
  Yet, were it lengthened, I should love once more.

  Ah me! I wander tired, and know not whither:
  I fear to sight my goal, the years gone by
  Point it too plain; nor will closed eyes avail.
  Now Time hath changed and gnawed this mortal veil,
  Death and the soul in conflict strive together
  About my future fate that looms so nigh.
  Unless my judgment greatly goes awry,
  Which God in mercy grant, I can but see
  Eternal penalty
  Waiting my wasted will, my misused mind,
  And know not, Lord, where health and hope to find.

After reading these lamentations, it is well to remember that Michelangelo at times indulged
a sense of humour. As examples of his lighter vein, we might allude to the sonnet on the Sistine
and the capitolo in answer to Francesco Berni, written in the name of Fra Sebastiano. Sometimes
his satire becomes malignant, as in the sonnet against the people of Pistoja, which breathes
the spirit of Dantesque invective. Sometimes the fierceness of it is turned against himself,
as in the capitolo upon old age and its infirmities. The grotesqueness of this lurid descant
on senility and death is marked by something rather Teutonic than Italian, a "Danse Macabre"
intensity of loathing; and it winds up with the bitter reflections, peculiar to him in his
latest years, upon the vanity of art. "My much-prized art, on which I relied and which brought
me fame, has now reduced me to this. I am poor and old, the slave of others. To the dogs I
must go, unless I die quickly."

A proper conclusion to this chapter may be borrowed from the peroration of Varchi's discourse
upon the philosophical love-poetry of Michelangelo. This time he chooses for his text the second
of those sonnets (No. lii.) which caused the poet's grand-nephew so much perplexity, inducing
him to alter the word amici in the last line into animi. It runs as follows:--

  I saw no mortal beauty with these eyes
    When perfect peace in thy fair eyes I found;
    But far within, where all is holy ground,
    My soul felt Love, her comrade of the skies:
  For she was born with God in Paradise;
    Else should we still to transient love be bound;
    But, finding these so false, we pass beyond
    Unto the Love of loves that never dies.
  Nay, things that die cannot assuage the thirst
    Of souls undying; nor Eternity
    Serves Time, where all must fade that flourisheth
  Sense is not love, but lawlessness accurst:
    This kills the soul; while our love lifts on high
    Our friends on earth--higher in heaven through death.

"From this sonnet," says Varchi, "I think that any man possessed of judgment will be able to
discern to what extent this angel, or rather archangel, in addition to his three first and
most noble professions of architecture, sculpture, and painting, wherein without dispute he
not only eclipses all the moderns, but even surpasses the ancients, proves himself also excellent,
nay singular, in poetry, and in the true art of loving; the which art is neither less fair
nor less difficult, albeit it be more necessary and more profitable than the other four. Whereof
no one ought to wonder: for this reason; that, over and above what is manifest to everybody,
namely that nature, desirous of exhibiting her utmost power, chose to fashion a complete man,
and (as the Latins say) one furnished in all proper parts; he, in addition to the gifts of
nature, of such sort and so liberally scattered, added such study and a diligence so great
that, even had he been by birth most rugged, he might through these means have become consummate
in all virtue: and supposing he were born, I do not say in Florence and of a very noble family,
in the time too of Lorenzo the Magnificent, who recognised, willed, knew, and had the power
to elevate so vast a genius; but in Scythia, of any stock or stem you like, under some commonplace
barbarian chief, a fellow not disdainful merely, but furiously hostile to all intellectual
ability; still, in all circumstances, under any star, he would have been Michelangelo, that
is to say, the unique painter, the singular sculptor, the most perfect architect, the most
excellent poet, and a lover of the most divinest. For the which reasons I (it is now many years
ago), holding his name not only in admiration, but also in veneration, before I knew that he
was architect already, made a sonnet; with which (although it be as much below the supreme
greatness of his worth as it is unworthy of your most refined and chastened ears) I mean to
close this present conference; reserving the discussion on the arts (in obedience to our Consul's
orders) for another lecture.

  Illustrious sculptor, 'twas enough and more,
    Not with the chisel-and bruised bronze alone,
    But also with brush, colour, pencil, tone,
    To rival, nay, surpass that fame of yore.
  But now, transcending what those laurels bore
    Of pride and beauty for our age and zone.
    You climb of poetry the third high throne,
    Singing love's strife and-peace, love's sweet and sore.
  O wise, and dear to God, old man well born,
    Who in so many, so fair ways, make fair
    This world, how shall your dues be dully paid?
  Doomed by eternal charters to adorn
    Nature and art, yourself their mirror are,
    None, first before, nor second after, made."

In the above translation of Varchi's peroration I have endeavoured to sustain those long-winded
periods of which he was so perfect and professed a master. We must remember that he actually
read this dissertation before the Florentine Academy on the second Sunday in Lent, in the year
1546, when Michelangelo was still alive and hearty. He afterwards sent it to the press; and
the studied trumpet-tones of eulogy, conferring upon Michelangelo the quintuple crown of pre-eminence
in painting, sculpture, architecture, poetry, and loving, sounded from Venice down to Naples.
The style of the oration may strike us as rococo now, but the accent of praise and appreciation
is surely genuine. Varchi's enthusiastic comment on the sonnets xxx, xxxi, and lii, published
to men of letters, taste, and learning in Florence and all Italy, is the strongest vindication
of their innocence against editors and scholars who in various ways have attempted to disfigure
or to misconstrue them.

CHAPTER XIII

I

The correspondence which I used in the eleventh chapter, while describing Michelangelo's difficulties
regarding the final contract with the Duke of Urbino, proves that he had not begun to paint
the frescoes of the Cappella Paolina in October 1542. They were carried on with interruptions
during the next seven years. These pictures, the last on which his talents were employed, are
two large subjects: the Conversion of S. Paul, and the Martyrdom of S. Peter. They have suffered
from smoke and other injuries of time even more than the frescoes of the Sistine, and can now
be scarcely appreciated owing to discoloration. Nevertheless, at no period, even when fresh
from the master's hand, can they have been typical of his style. It is true that contemporaries
were not of this opinion. Condivi calls both of them "stupendous not only in the general exposition
of the histories but also in the details of each figure." It is also true that the technical
finish of these large compositions shows a perfect mastery of painting, and that the great
designer has not lost his power of dealing at will with the human body. But the frigidity of
old age had fallen on his feeling and imagination. The faces of his saints and angels here
are more inexpressive than those of the Last Judgment. The type of form has become still more
rigidly schematic. All those figures in violent attitudes have been invented in the artist's
brain without reference to nature; and the activity of movement which he means to suggest,
is frozen, petrified, suspended. The suppleness, the elasticity, the sympathy with which Michelangelo
handled the nude, when he began to paint in the Sistine Chapel, have disappeared. We cannot
refrain from regretting that seven years of his energetic old age should have been devoted
to work so obviously indicative of decaying faculties.

The Cappella Paolina ran a risk of destruction by fire during the course of his operations
there. Michelangelo wrote to Del Riccio in 1545, reminding him that part of the roof had been
consumed, and that it would be necessary to cover it in roughly at once, since the rain was
damaging the frescoes and weakening the walls. When they were finished, Paul III. appointed
an official guardian with a fixed salary, whose sole business it should be "to clean the frescoes
well and keep them in a state of cleanliness, free from dust and other impurities, as also
from the smoke of candles lighted in both chapels during divine service." This man had charge
of the Sistine as well as the Pauline Chapel; but his office does not seem to have been continued
after the death of the Farnese. The first guardian nominated was Buonarroti's favourite servant
Urbino.

Vasari, after describing these frescoes in some detail, but without his customary enthusiasm,
goes on to observe: "Michelangelo attended only, as I have elsewhere said, to the perfection
of art. There are no landscapes, nor trees, nor houses; nor again do we find in his work that
variety of movement and prettiness which may be noticed in the pictures of other men. He always
neglected such decoration, being unwilling to lower his lofty genius to these details." This
is indeed true of the arid desert of the Pauline frescoes. Then he adds: "They were his last
productions in painting. He was seventy-five years old when he carried them to completion;
and, as he informed me, he did so with great effort and fatigue--painting, after a certain
age, and especially fresco-painting, not being in truth fit work for old men."

The first of two acute illnesses, which showed that Michelangelo's constitution was beginning
to give way, happened in the summer of 1544. On this occasion Luigi del Riccio took him into
his own apartments at the Casa Strozzi; and here he nursed him with such personal devotion
that the old man afterwards regarded Del Riccio as the saviour of his life. We learn this from
the following pathetic sonnet:--

  It happens that the sweet unfathomed sea
    Of seeming courtesy sometimes doth hide
    Offence to life and honour. This descried,
    I hold less dear the health restored to me.
  He who lends wings of hope, while secretly
    He spreads a traitorous snare by the wayside,
    Hath dulled the flame of love, and mortified
    Friendship where friendship burns most fervently.
  Keep then, my dear Luigi, clear and fare,
    That ancient love to which my life I owe,
    That neither wind nor storm its calm may mar.
  For wrath and pain our gratitude obscure;
    And if the truest truth of love I know,
    One pang outweighs a thousand pleasures far.

Ruberto Strozzi, who was then in France, wrote anxiously inquiring after his health. In reply,
Michelangelo sent Strozzi a singular message by Luigi del Riccio, to the effect that "if the
king of France restored Florence to liberty, he was ready to make his statue on horseback out
of bronze at his own cost, and set it up in the Piazza." This throws some light upon a passage
in a letter addressed subsequently to Lionardo Buonarroti, when the tyrannous law, termed "La
Polverina," enacted against malcontents by the Duke Cosimo de' Medici, was disturbing the minds
of Florentine citizens. Michelangelo then wrote as follows: "I am glad that you gave me news
of the edict; because, if I have been careful up to this date in my conversation with exiles,
I shall take more precautions for the future. As to my having been laid up with an illness
in the house of the Strozzi, I do not hold that I was in their house, but in the apartment
of Messer Luigi del Riccio, who was my intimate friend; and after the death of Bartolommeo
Angelini, I found no one better able to transact my affairs, or more faithfully, than he did.
When he died, I ceased to frequent the house, as all Rome can bear me witness; as they can
also with regard to the general tenor of my life, inasmuch as I am always alone, go little
around, and talk to no one, least of all to Florentines. When I am saluted on the open street,
I cannot do less than respond with fair words and pass upon my way. Had I knowledge of the
exiles, who they are, I would not reply to them in any manner. As I have said, I shall henceforward
protect myself with diligence, the more that I have so much else to think about that I find
it difficult to live."

This letter of 1548, taken in connection with the circumstances of Michelangelo's illness in
1544, his exchange of messages with Ruberto degli Strozzi, his gift of the two Captives to
that gentleman, and his presence in the house of the Strozzi during his recovery, shows the
delicacy of the political situation at Florence under Cosimo's rule. Slight indications of
a reactionary spirit in the aged artist exposed his family to peril. Living in Rome, Michelangelo
risked nothing with the Florentine government. But "La Polverina" attacked the heirs of exiles
in their property and persons. It was therefore of importance to establish his non-complicity
in revolutionary intrigues. Luckily for himself and his nephew, he could make out a good case
and defend his conduct. Though Buonarroti's sympathies and sentiments inclined him to prefer
a republic in his native city, and though he threw his weight into that scale at the crisis
of the siege, he did not forget his early obligations to the House of Medici. Clement VII.
accepted his allegiance when the siege was over, and set him immediately to work at the tasks
he wished him to perform. What is more, the Pope took pains and trouble to settle the differences
between him and the Duke of Urbino. The man had been no conspirator. The architect and sculptor
was coveted by every pope and prince in Italy. Still there remained a discord between his political
instincts, however prudently and privately indulged, and his sense of personal loyalty to the
family at whose board he sat in youth, and to whom he owed his advancement in life. Accordingly,
we shall find that, though the Duke of Tuscany made advances to win him back to Florence, Michelangelo
always preferred to live and die on neutral ground in Rome. Like the wise man that he was,
he seems to have felt through these troublous times that his own duty, the service laid on
him by God and nature, was to keep his force and mental faculties for art; obliging old patrons
in all kindly offices, suppressing republican aspirations--in one word, "sticking to his last,"
and steering clear of shoals on which the main raft of his life might founder.

From this digression, which was needful to explain his attitude toward Florence and part of
his psychology, I return to the incidents of Michelangelo's illness at Rome in 1544. Lionardo,
having news of his uncle's danger, came post-haste to Rome. This was his simple duty, as a
loving relative. But the old man, rendered suspicious by previous transactions with his family,
did not take the action in its proper light. We have a letter, indorsed by Lionardo in Rome
as received upon the 11th of July, to this effect: "Lionardo, I have been ill; and you, at
the instance of Ser Giovan Francesco (probably Fattucci), have come to make me dead, and to
see what I have left. Is there not enough of mine at Florence to content you? You cannot deny
that you are the image of your father, who turned me out of my own house in Florence. Know
that I have made a will of such tenor that you need not trouble your head about what I possess
at Rome. Go then with God, and do not present yourself before me; and do not write to me again,
and act like the priest in the fable."

The correspondence between uncle and nephew during the next months proves that this furious
letter wrought no diminution of mutual regard and affection. Before the end of the year he
must have recovered, for we find him writing to Del Riccio: "I am well again now, and hope
to live yet some years, seeing that God has placed my health under the care of Maestro Baccio
Rontini and the trebbian wine of the Ulivieri." This letter is referred to January 1545, and
on the 9th of that month he dictated a letter to his friend Del Riccio, in which he tells Lionardo
Buonarroti: "I do not feel well, and cannot write. Nevertheless I have recovered from my illness,
and suffer no pain now." We have reason to think that Michelangelo fell gravely ill again toward
the close of 1545. News came to Florence that he was dying; and Lionardo, not intimidated by
his experience on the last occasion, set out to visit him. His ricordo of the journey was as
follows: "I note how on the 15th of January 1545 (Flor. style, i.e. 1546) I went to Rome by
post to see Michelangelo, who was ill, and returned to-day, the 26th."

It is not quite easy to separate the records of these two acute illnesses of Michelangelo,
falling between the summer of 1544 and the early spring of 1546. Still, there is no doubt that
they signalised his passage from robust old age into a period of physical decline. Much of
life survived in the hero yet; he had still to mould S. Peter's after his own mind, and to
invent the cupola. Intellectually he suffered no diminution, but he became subject to a chronic
disease of the bladder, and adopted habits suited to decaying faculty.

II

We have seen that Michelangelo regarded Luigi del Riccio as his most trusty friend and adviser.
The letters which he wrote to him during these years turn mainly upon business or poetical
compositions. Some, however, throw light upon the private life of both men, and on the nature
of their intimacy. I will select a few for special comment here. The following has no date;
but it is interesting, because we may connect the feeling expressed in it with one of Michelangelo's
familiar sonnets. "Dear Messer Luigi, since I know you are as great a master of ceremonies
as I am unfit for that trade, I beg you to help me in a little matter. Monsignor di Todi (Federigo
Cesi, afterwards Cardinal of S. Pancrazio) has made me a present, which Urbino will describe
to you. I think you are a friend of his lordship: will you then thank him in my name, when
you find a suitable occasion, and do so with those compliments which come easily to you, and
to me are very hard? Make me too your debtor for some tartlet."

The sonnet is No. ix of Signor Guasti's edition. I have translated it thus:--

  The sugar, candles, and the saddled mule,
    Together with your cask of malvoisie,
    So far exceed all my necessity
    That Michael and not I my debt must rule.
  In such a glassy calm the breezes fool
    My sinking sails, so that amid the sea
    My bark hath missed her way, and seems to be
    A wisp of straw whirled on a weltering pool.
  To yield thee gift for gift and grace for grace,
    For food and drink and carriage to and fro,
    For all my need in every time and place,
  O my dear lord, matched with the much I owe,
    All that I am were no real recompense:
    Paying a debt is not munificence.

In the chapter upon Michelangelo's poetry I dwelt at length upon Luigi del Riccio's passionate
affection for his cousin, Cecchino dei Bracci. This youth died at the age of sixteen, on January
8, 1545. Michelangelo undertook to design "the modest sepulchre of marble" erected to his memory
by Del Riccio in the church of Araceli. He also began to write sonnets, madrigals, and epitaphs,
which were sent from day to day. One of his letters gives an explanation of the eighth epitaph:
"Our dead friend speaks and says: if the heavens robbed all beauty from all other men on earth
to make me only, as indeed they made me, beautiful; and if by the divine decree I must return
at doomsday to the shape I bore in life, it follows that I cannot give back the beauty robbed
from others and bestowed on me, but that I must remain for ever more beautiful than the rest,
and they be ugly. This is just the opposite of the conceit you expressed to me yesterday; the
one is a fable, the other is the truth."

Some time in 1545 Luigi went to Lyons on a visit to Ruberto Strozzi and Giuliano de' Medici.
This seems to have happened toward the end of the year; for we possess a letter indorsed by
him, "sent to Lyons, and returned upon the 22nd of December." This document contains several
interesting details. "All your friends are extremely grieved to hear about your illness, the
more so that we cannot help you; especially Messer Donato (Giannotti) and myself. However,
we hope that it may turn out to be no serious affair, God willing. In another letter I told
you that, if you stayed away long, I meant to come to see you. This I repeat; for now that
I have lost the Piacenza ferry, and cannot live at Rome without income, I would rather spend
the little that I have in hostelries, than crawl about here, cramped up like a penniless cripple.
So, if nothing happens, I have a mind to go to S. James of Compostella after Easter; and if
you have not returned, I should like to travel through any place where I shall hear that you
are staying. Urbino has spoken to Messer Aurelio, and will speak again. From what he tells
me, I think that you will get the site you wanted for the tomb of Cecchino. It is nearly finished,
and will turn out handsome."

Michelangelo's project of going upon pilgrimage to Galicia shows that his health was then good.
But we know that he soon afterwards had another serious illness; and the scheme was abandoned.

This long and close friendship with Luigi comes to a sudden termination in one of those stormy
outbursts of petulant rage which form a special feature of Michelangelo's psychology. Some
angry words passed between them about an engraving, possibly of the Last Judgment, which Buonarroti
wanted to destroy, while Del Riccio refused to obliterate the plate:--

"Messer Luigi,--You seem to think I shall reply according to your wishes, when the case is
quite the contrary. You give me what I have refused, and refuse me what I begged. And it is
not ignorance which makes you send it me through Ercole, when you are ashamed to give it me
yourself. One who saved my life has certainly the power to disgrace me; but I do not know which
is the heavier to bear, disgrace or death. Therefore I beg and entreat you, by the true friendship
which exists between us, to spoil that print (stampa), and to burn the copies that are already
printed off. And if you choose to buy and sell me, do not so to others. If you hack me into
a thousand pieces, I will do the same, not indeed to yourself, but to what belongs to you.

                                 "Michelangelo Buonarroti.

"Not painter, nor sculptor, nor architect, but what you will, but not a drunkard, as you said
at your house."

Unfortunately, this is the last of the Del Riccio's letters. It is very probable that the irascible
artist speedily recovered his usual tone, and returned to amity with his old friend. But Del
Riccio departed this life toward the close of this year, 1546.

Before resuming the narrative of Michelangelo's art-work at this period, I must refer to the
correspondence which passed between him and King Francis I. The King wrote an epistle in the
spring of 1546, requesting some fine monument from the illustrious master's hand. Michelangelo
replied upon the 26th of April, in language of simple and respectful dignity, fine, as coming
from an aged artist to a monarch on the eve of death:--

"Sacred Majesty,--I know not which is greater, the favour, or the astonishment it stirs in
me, that your Majesty should have deigned to write to a man of my sort, and still more to ask
him for things of his which are all unworthy of the name of your Majesty. But be they what
they may, I beg your Majesty to know that for a long while since I have desired to serve you;
but not having had an opportunity, owing to your not being in Italy, I have been unable to
do so. Now I am old, and have been occupied these many months with the affairs of Pope Paul.
But if some space of time is still granted to me after these engagements, I will do my utmost
to fulfil the desire which, as I have said above, has long inspired me: that is, to make for
your Majesty one work in marble, one in bronze, and one in painting. And if death prevents
my carrying out this wish, should it be possible to make statues or pictures in the other world,
I shall not fail to do so there, where there is no more growing old. And I pray God that He
grant your Majesty a long and a happy life."

Francis died in 1547; and we do not know that any of Michelangelo's works passed directly into
his hands, with the exception of the Leda, purchased through the agency of Luigi Alamanni,
and the two Captives, presented by Ruberto Strozzi.

III

The absorbing tasks imposed upon Buonarroti's energies by Paul III., which are mentioned in
this epistle to the French king, were not merely the frescoes of the Cappella Paolina, but
also various architectural and engineering schemes of some importance. It is clear, I think,
that at this period of his hale old age, Michelangelo preferred to use what still survived
in him of vigour and creative genius for things requiring calculation, or the exercise of meditative
fancy. The time had gone by when he could wield the brush and chisel with effective force.
He was tired of expressing his sense of beauty and the deep thoughts of his brain in sculptured
marble or on frescoed surfaces. He had exhausted the human form as a symbol of artistic utterance.
But the extraordinary richness of his vein enabled him still to deal with abstract mathematical
proportions in the art of building, and with rhythms in the art of writing. His best work,
both as architect and poet, belongs to the period when he had lost power as sculptor and painter.
This fact is psychologically interesting. Up to the age of seventy, he had been working in
the plastic and the concrete. The language he had learned, and used with overwhelming mastery,
was man: physical mankind, converted into spiritual vehicle by art. His grasp upon this region
failed him now. Perhaps there was not the old sympathy with lovely shapes. Perhaps he knew
that he had played on every gamut of that lyre. Emerging from the sphere of the sensuous, where
ideas take plastic embodiment, he grappled in this final stage of his career with harmonical
ratios and direct verbal expression, where ideas are disengaged from figurative form. The men
and women, loved by him so long, so wonderfully wrought into imperishable shapes, "nurslings
of immortality," recede. In their room arise, above the horizon of his intellect, the cupola
of S. Peter's and a few imperishable poems, which will live as long as Italian claims a place
among the languages. There is no comparison to be instituted between his actual achievements
as a builder and a versifier. The whole tenor of his life made him more competent to deal with
architecture than with literature. Nevertheless, it is significant that the versatile genius
of the man was henceforth restricted to these two channels of expression, and that in both
of them his last twenty years of existence produced bloom and fruit of unexpected rarity.

After writing this paragraph, and before I engage in the narrative of what is certainly the
final manifestation of Michelangelo's genius as a creative artist, I ought perhaps to pause,
and to give some account of those survivals from his plastic impulse, which occupied the old
man's energies for several years. They were entirely the outcome of religious feeling; and
it is curious to notice that he never approached so nearly to true Christian sentiment as in
the fragmentary designs which we may still abundantly collect from this late autumn of his
artist's life. There are countless drawings for some great picture of the Crucifixion, which
was never finished: exquisite in delicacy of touch, sublime in conception, dignified in breadth
and grand repose of style. Condivi tells us that some of these were made for the Marchioness
of Pescara. But Michelangelo must have gone on producing them long after her death. With these
phantoms of stupendous works to be, the Museums of Europe abound. We cannot bring them together,
or condense them into a single centralised conception. Their interest consists in their divergence
and variety, showing the continuous poring of the master's mind upon a theme he could not definitely
grasp. For those who love his work, and are in sympathy with his manner, these drawings, mostly
in chalk, and very finely handled, have a supreme interest. They show him, in one sense, at
his highest and his best, not only as a man of tender feeling, but also as a mighty draughtsman.
Their incompleteness testifies to something pathetic--the humility of the imperious man before
a theme he found to be beyond the reach of human faculty.

The tone, the Stimmung, of these designs corresponds so exactly to the sonnets of the same
late period, that I feel impelled at this point to make his poetry take up the tale. But, as
I cannot bring the cloud of witnesses of all those drawings into this small book, so am I unwilling
to load its pages with poems which may be found elsewhere. Those who care to learn the heart
of Michelangelo, when he felt near to God and face to face with death, will easily find access
to the originals.

Concerning the Deposition from the Cross, which now stands behind the high altar of the Florentine
Duomo, Condivi writes as follows: "At the present time he has in hand a work in marble, which
he carries on for his pleasure, as being one who, teeming with conceptions, must needs give
birth each day to some of them. It is a group of four figures larger than life. A Christ taken
from the cross, sustained in death by his Mother, who is represented in an attitude of marvellous
pathos, leaning up against the corpse with breast, with arms, and lifted knee. Nicodemus from
above assists her, standing erect and firmly planted, propping the dead Christ with a sturdy
effort; while one of the Maries, on the left side, though plunged in sorrow, does all she can
to assist the afflicted Mother, failing under the attempt to raise her Son. It would be quite
impossible to describe the beauty of style displayed in this group, or the sublime emotions
expressed in those woe-stricken countenances. I am confident that the Pietà is one of his rarest
and most difficult masterpieces; particularly because the figures are kept apart distinctly,
nor does the drapery of the one intermingle with that of the others."

This panegyric is by no means pitched too high. Justice has hardly been done in recent times
to the noble conception, the intense feeling, and the broad manner of this Deposition. That
may be due in part to the dull twilight in which the group is plunged, depriving all its lines
of salience and relief. It is also true that in certain respects the composition is fairly
open to adverse criticism. The torso of Christ overweighs the total scheme; and his legs are
unnaturally attenuated. The kneeling woman on the left side is slender, and appears too small
in proportion to the other figures; though, if she stood erect, it is probable that her height
would be sufficient.

The best way to study Michelangelo's last work in marble is to take the admirable photograph
produced under artificial illumination by Alinari. No sympathetic mind will fail to feel that
we are in immediate contact with the sculptor's very soul, at the close of his life, when all
his thoughts were weaned from earthly beauty, and he cried--

  Painting nor sculpture now can lull to rest
  My soul, that turns to his great love on high,
  Whose arms to clasp us on the cross were spread.

As a French critic has observed: "It is the most intimately personal and the most pathetic
of his works. The idea of penitence exhales from it. The marble preaches the sufferings of
the Passion; it makes us listen to an act of bitter contrition and an act of sorrowing love."

Michelangelo is said to have designed the Pietà for his own monument. In the person of Nicodemus,
it is he who sustains his dead Lord in the gloom of the sombre Duomo. His old sad face, surrounded
by the heavy cowl, looks down for ever with a tenderness beyond expression, repeating mutely
through the years how much of anguish and of blood divine the redemption of man's soul hath cost.

The history of this great poem in marble, abandoned by its maker in some mood of deep dejection,
is not without interest. We are told that the stone selected was a capital from one of the
eight huge columns of the Temple of Peace. Besides being hard and difficult to handle, the
material betrayed flaws in working. This circumstance annoyed the master; also, as he informed
Vasari, Urbino kept continually urging him to finish it. One of his reasons for attacking the
block had been to keep himself in health by exercise. Accordingly he hewed away with fury,
and bit so deep into the marble that he injured one of the Madonna's elbows. When this happened,
it was his invariable practice to abandon the piece he had begun upon, feeling that an incomplete
performance was preferable to a lame conclusion. In his old age he suffered from sleeplessness;
and it was his habit to rise from bed and work upon the Pietà, wearing a thick paper cap, in
which he placed a lighted candle made of goat's tallow. This method of chiselling by the light
of one candle must have complicated the technical difficulties of his labour. But what we may
perhaps surmise to have been his final motive for the rejection of the work, was a sense of
his inability, with diminished powers of execution, and a still more vivid sense of the importance
of the motive, to accomplish what the brain conceived. The hand failed. The imagination of
the subject grew more intimate and energetic. Losing patience then at last, he took a hammer
and began to break the group up. Indeed, the right arm of the Mary shows a fracture. The left
arm of the Christ is mutilated in several places. One of the nipples has been repaired, and
the hand of the Madonna resting on the breast above it is cracked across. It would have been
difficult to reduce the whole huge block to fragments; and when the work of destruction had
advanced so far, Michelangelo's servant Antonio, the successor to Urbino, begged the remnants
from his master. Tiberio Calcagni was a good friend of Buonarroti's at this time. He heard
that Francesco Bandini, a Florentine settled in exile at Rome, earnestly desired some relic
of the master's work. Accordingly, Calgagni, with Michelangelo's consent, bought the broken
marble from Antonio for 200 crowns, pieced it together, and began to mend it. Fortunately,
he does not seem to have elaborated the surface in any important particular; for both the finished
and unfinished parts bear indubitable marks of Michelangelo's own handling. After the death
of Calcagni and Bandini, the Pietà remained for some time in the garden of Antonio, Bandini's
heir, at Montecavallo. It was transferred to Florence, and placed among the marbles used in
erecting the new Medicean Chapel, until at last, in 1722, the Grand Duke Cosimo III. finally
set it up behind the altar of the Duomo.

Vasari adds that Michelangelo began another Pietà in marble on a much smaller scale. It is
possible that this may have been the unfinished group of two figures (a dead Christ sustained
by a bending man), of which there is a cast in the Accademia at Florence. In some respects
the composition of this fragment bears a strong resemblance to the puzzling Deposition from
the Cross in our National Gallery. The trailing languor of the dead Christ's limbs is almost
identical in the marble and the painting.

While speaking of these several Pietàs, I must not forget the medallion in high relief of the
Madonna clasping her dead Son, which adorns the Albergo dei Poveri at Genoa. It is ascribed
to Michelangelo, was early believed to be his, and is still accepted without hesitation by
competent judges. In spite of its strongly marked Michelangelesque mannerism, both as regards
feeling, facial type, and design, I cannot regard the bas-relief, in its present condition
at least, as a genuine work, but rather as the production of some imitator, or the rifacimento
of a restorer. A similar impression may here be recorded regarding the noble portrait-bust
in marble of Pope Paul III. at Naples. This too has been attributed to Michelangelo. But there
is no external evidence to support the tradition, while the internal evidence from style and
technical manipulation weighs strongly against it. The medallions introduced upon the heavily
embroidered cope are not in his style. The treatment of the adolescent female form in particular
indicates a different temperament. Were the ascription made to Benvenuto Cellini, we might
have more easily accepted it. But Cellini would certainly have enlarged upon so important a
piece of sculpture in his Memoirs. If then we are left to mere conjecture, it would be convenient
to suggest Guglielmo della Porta, who executed the Farnese monument in S. Peter's.

IV

While still a Cardinal, Paul III. began to rebuild the old palace of the Farnesi on the Tiber
shore. It closes one end of the great open space called the Campo di Fiore, and stands opposite
to the Villa Farnesina, on the right bank of the river. Antonio da Sangallo was the architect
employed upon this work, which advanced slowly until Alessandro Farnese's elevation to the
Papacy. He then determined to push the building forward, and to complete it on a scale of magnificence
befitting the supreme Pontiff. Sangallo had carried the walls up to the second story. The third
remained to be accomplished, and the cornice had to be constructed. Paul was not satisfied
with Sangallo's design, and referred it to Michelangelo for criticism --possibly in 1544. The
result was a report, which we still possess, in which Buonarroti, basing his opinion on principles
derived from Vitruvius, severely blames Sangallo's plan under six separate heads. He does not
leave a single merit, as regards either harmony of proportion, or purity of style, or elegance
of composition, or practical convenience, or decorative beauty, or distribution of parts. He
calls the cornice barbarous, confused, bastard in style, discordant with the rest of the building,
and so ill suited to the palace as, if carried out, to threaten the walls with destruction.
This document has considerable interest, partly as illustrating Michelangelo's views on architecture
in general, and displaying a pedantry of which he was never elsewhere guilty, partly as explaining
the bitter hostility aroused against him in Sangallo and the whole tribe of that great architect's
adherents. We do not, unfortunately, possess the design upon which the report was made. But,
even granting that it must have been defective, Michelangelo, who professed that architecture
was not his art, might, one thinks, have spared his rival such extremity of adverse criticism.
It exposed him to the taunts of rivals and ill-wishers; justified them in calling him presumptuous,
and gave them a plausible excuse when they accused him of jealousy. What made it worse was,
that his own large building, the Laurentian Library, glaringly exhibits all the defects he
discovered in Sangallo's cornice.

I find it difficult to resist the impression that Michelangelo was responsible, to a large
extent, for the ill-will of those artists whom Vasari calls "la setta Sangallesca." His life
became embittered by their animosity, and his industry as Papal architect continued to be hampered
for many years by their intrigues. But he alone was to blame at the beginning, not so much
for expressing an honest opinion, as for doing so with insulting severity.

That Michelangelo may have been right in his condemnation of Sangallo's cornice is of course
possible. Paul himself was dissatisfied, and eventually threw that portion of the building
open to competition. Perino del Vaga, Sebastiano del Piombo, and the young Giorgio Vasari are
said to have furnished designs. Michelangelo did so also; and his plan was not only accepted,
but eventually carried out. Nevertheless Sangallo, one of the most illustrious professional
architects then alive, could not but have felt deeply wounded by the treatment he received.
It was natural for his followers to exclaim that Buonarroti had contrived to oust their aged
master, and to get a valuable commission into his own grasp, by the discourteous exercise of
his commanding prestige in the world of art.

In order to be just to Michelangelo, we must remember that he was always singularly modest
in regard to his own performances, and severe in self-criticism. Neither in his letters nor
in his poems does a single word of self-complacency escape his pen. He sincerely felt himself
to be an unprofitable servant: that was part of his constitutional depression. We know, too,
that he allowed strong temporary feelings to control his utterance. The cruel criticism of
Sangallo may therefore have been quite devoid of malice; and if it was as well founded as the
criticism of that builder's plan for S. Peter's, then Michelangelo stands acquitted. All the
architects who departed from Bramante's scheme, as Sangallo has done, have departed from the
truth; and those who have unprejudiced eyes can observe this in his model. Sangallo's ring
of chapels takes light from the interior as Bramante planned it; and not only this, but he
has provided no other means of lighting, and there are so many hiding-places, above and below,
all dark, which lend themselves to innumerable knaveries, that the church would become a secret
den for harbouring bandits, false coiners, for debauching nuns, and doing all sorts of rascality;
and when it was shut up at night, twenty-five men would be needed to search the building for
rogues hidden there, and it would be difficult enough to find them. There is, besides, another
inconvenience: the interior circle of buildings added to Bramante's plan would necessitate
the destruction of the Paoline Chapel, the offices of the Piombo and the Ruota, and more besides.
I do not think that even the Sistine would escape."

After this Michelangelo adds that to remove the out-works and foundations begun upon Sangallo's
plan would not cost 100,000 crowns, as the sect alleged, but only 16,000, The material would
be infinitely useful, the foundations important for the building, and the whole fabric would
profit in something like 200,000 crowns and 300 years of time. "This is my dispassionate opinion;
and I say this in truth, for to gain a victory here would be my own incalculable loss." Michelangelo
means that, at the time when he wrote the letter in question, it was still in doubt whether
Sangallo's design should be carried out or his own adopted; and, as usual, he looked forward
with dread to undertaking a colossal architectural task.

V

Returning to the Palazzo Farnese, it only remains to be said that Michelangelo lived to complete
the edifice. His genius was responsible for the inharmonious window above the main entrance.
According to Vasari, he not only finished the exterior from the second story upwards, but designed
the whole of the central courtyard above the first story, "making it the finest thing of its
sort in Europe." The interior, with the halls painted by Annibale Caracci, owed its disposition
into chambers and galleries to his invention. The cornice has always been reckoned among his
indubitable successes, combining as it does salience and audacity with a grand heroic air of
grace. It has been criticised for disproportionate projection; and Michelangelo seems to have
felt uneasy on this score, since he caused a wooden model of the right size to be made and
placed upon the wall, in order to judge of its effect.

Taken as a whole, the Palazzo Farnese remains the most splendid of the noble Roman houses,
surpassing all the rest in pomp and pride, though falling short of Peruzzi's Palazzo Massimo
in beauty.

The catastrophe of 1527, when Rome was taken by assault on the side of the Borgo without effective
resistance being possible, rendered the fortification of the city absolutely necessary. Paul
III determined to secure a position of such vital importance to the Vatican by bastions. Accordingly
he convened a diet of notables, including his architect-in-chief, Antonio da Sangallo. He also
wished to profit by Michelangelo's experience, remembering the stout resistance offered to
the Prince of Orange by his outworks at S. Miniato. Vasari tells an anecdote regarding this
meeting which illustrates the mutual bad feeling of the two illustrious artists. "After much
discussion, the opinion of Buonarroti was requested. He had conceived views widely differing
on those of Sangallo and several others, and these he expressed frankly. Whereupon Sangallo
told him that sculpture and painting were his trade, not fortification. He replied that about
them he knew but little, whereas the anxious thought he had given to city defences, the time
he had spent, and the experience he had practically gained in constructing them, made him superior
in that art to Sangallo and all the masters of his family. He proceeded to point out before
all present numerous errors in the works. Heated words passed on both sides, and the Pope had
to reduce the men to silence. Before long he brought a plan for the fortification of the whole
Borgo, which opened the eyes of those in power to the scheme which was finally adopted. Owing
to changes he suggested, the great gate of Santo Spirito, designed by Sangallo and nearly finished,
was left incomplete."

It is not clear what changes were introduced into Sangallo's scheme. They certainly involved
drawing the line of defence much closer to the city than he intended. This approved itself
to Pier Luigi Farnese, then Duke of Castro, who presided over the meetings of the military
committee. It was customary in carrying out the works of fortification to associate a practical
engineer with the architect who provided designs; and one of these men, Gian Francesco Montemellino,
a trusted servant of the Farnesi, strongly supported the alteration. That Michelangelo agreed
with Montemellino, and felt that they could work together, appears from a letter addressed
to the Castellano of S. Angelo. It seems to have been written soon after the dispute recorded
by Vasari. In it he states, that although he differs in many respects from the persons who
had hitherto controlled the works, yet he thinks it better not to abandon them altogether,
but to correct them, alter the superintendence, and put Montemellino at the head of the direction.
This would prevent the Pope from becoming disgusted with such frequent changes. "If affairs
took the course he indicated, he was ready to offer his assistance, not in the capacity of
colleague, but as a servant to command in all things." Nothing is here said openly about Sangallo,
who remained architect-in-chief until his death. Still the covert wish expressed that the superintendence
might be altered, shows a spirit of hostility against him; and a new plan for the lines must
soon have been adopted. A despatch written to the Duke of Parma in September 1545 informs him
that the old works were being abandoned, with the exception of the grand Doric gateway of S.
Spirito. This is described at some length in another despatch of January 1546. Later on, in
1557, we find Michelangelo working as architect-in-chief with Jacopo Meleghino under his direction,
but the fortifications were eventually carried through by a more competent engineer, one Jacopo
Fusto Castriotto of Urbino.

VI

Antonio da Sangallo died on October 3, 1546, at Terni, while engaged in engineering works intended
to drain the Lake Velino. Michelangelo immediately succeeded to the offices and employments
he had held at Rome. Of these, the most important was the post of architect-in-chief at S.
Peter's. Paul III. conferred it upon him for life by a brief dated January 1, 1547. He is there
named "commissary, prefect, surveyor of the works, and architect, with full authority to change
the model, form, and structure of the church at pleasure, and to dismiss and remove the working-men
and foremen employed upon the same." The Pope intended to attach a special stipend to the onerous
charge, but Michelangelo declined this honorarium, declaring that he meant to labour without
recompense, for the love of God and the reverence he felt for the Prince of the Apostles. Although
he might have had money for the asking, and sums were actually sent as presents by his Papal
master, he persisted in this resolution, working steadily at S. Peter's without pay, until
death gave him rest.

Michelangelo's career as servant to a Pope began with the design of that tomb which led Julius
II. to destroy the old S. Peter's. He was now entering, after forty-two years, upon the last
stage of his long life. Before the end came, he gave final form to the main features of the
great basilica, raising the dome which dominates the Roman landscape like a stationary cloud
upon the sky-line. What had happened to the edifice in the interval between 1505 and 1547 must
be briefly narrated, although it is not within the scope of this work to give a complete history
of the building.

Bramante's original design had been to construct the church in the form of a Greek cross, with
four large semi-circular apses. The four angles made by the projecting arms of the cross were
to be filled in with a complex but well-ordered scheme of shrines and chapels, so that externally
the edifice would have presented the aspect of a square. The central piers, at the point of
junction between the arms of the cross, supported a broad shallow dome, modelled upon that
of the Pantheon. Similar domes of lesser dimensions crowned the out-buildings. He began by
erecting the piers which were intended to support the central dome; but working hastily and
without due regard to solid strength, Bramante made these piers too weak to sustain the ponderous
mass they had to carry. How he would have rectified this error cannot be conjectured. Death
cut his labours short in 1514, and only a small portion of his work remains embedded at the
present day within the mightier masses raised beneath Buonarroti's cupola.

Leo X. commissioned Raffaello da Urbino to continue his kinsman's work, and appointed Antonio
da Sangallo to assist him in the month of January 1517. Whether it was judged impossible to
carry out Bramante's project of the central dome, or for some other reason unknown to us, Raffaello
altered the plan so essentially as to design a basilica upon the conventional ground-plan of
such churches. He abandoned the Greek cross, and adopted the Latin form by adding an elongated
nave. The central piers were left in their places; the three terminal apses of the choir and
transepts were strengthened, simplified, reduced to commonplace. Bramante's ground-plan is
lucid, luminous, and exquisitely ordered in its intricacy. The true creation of a builder-poet's
brain, it illustrates Leo Battista Alberti's definition of the charm of architecture, tutta
quella musica, that melody and music of a graceful edifice. We are able to understand what
Michelangelo meant when he remarked that all subsequent designers, by departing from it, had
gone wrong. Raffaello's plan, if carried out, would have been monotonous and tame inside and out.

After the death of Raffaello in 1520, Baldassare Peruzzi was appointed to be Sangallo's colleague.
This genial architect, in whose style all the graces were combined with dignity and strength,
prepared a new design at Leo's request. Vasari, referring to this period of Peruzzi's life,
says: "The Pope, thinking Bramante's scheme too large and not likely to be in keeping, obtained
a new model from Baldassare; magnificent and truly full of fine invention, also so wisely constructed
that certain portions have been adopted by subsequent builders." He reverted to Bramante's
main conception of the Greek cross, but altered the details in so many important points, both
by thickening the piers and walls, and also by complicating the internal disposition of the
chapels, that the effect would have been quite different. The ground-plan, which is all I know
of Peruzzi's project, has always seemed to me by far the most beautiful and interesting of
those laid down for S. Peter's. It is richer, more imaginative and suggestive, than Bramante's.
The style of Bramante, in spite of its serene simplicity, had something which might be described
as shallow clearness. In comparison with Peruzzi's style, it is what Gluck's melody is to Mozart's.
The course of public events prevented this scheme from being carried out. First came the pontificate
of Adrian VI., so sluggish in art-industry; then the pontificate of Clement VII., so disastrous
for Italy and Rome. Many years elapsed before art and literature recovered from the terror
and the torpor of 1527. Peruzzi indeed returned to his office at S. Peter's in 1535, but his
death followed in 1537, when Antonio da Sangallo remained master of the situation.

Sangallo had the good sense to preserve many of Peruzzi's constructive features, especially
in the apses of the choir and transepts; but he added a vast vestibule, which gave the church
a length equal to that of Raffaello's plan. Externally, he designed a lofty central cupola
and two flanking spires, curiously combining the Gothic spirit with Classical elements of style.
In order to fill in the huge spaces of this edifice, he superimposed tiers of orders one above
the other. Church, cupola, and spires are built up by a succession of Vitruvian temples, ascending
from the ground into the air. The total impression produced by the mass, as we behold it now
in the great wooden model at S. Peter's, is one of bewildering complexity. Of architectural
repose it possesses little, except what belongs to a very original and vast conception on a
colossal scale. The extent of the structure is frittered by its multiplicity of parts. Internally,
as Michelangelo pointed out, the church would have been dark, inconvenient, and dangerous to
public morals.

VII

Whatever we may think of Michelangelo's failings as an architect, there is no doubt that at
this period of his life he aimed at something broad and heroic in style. He sought to attain
grandeur by greatness in the masses and by economy of the constituent parts. His method of
securing amplitude was exactly opposite to that of Sangallo, who relied upon the multiplication
rather than the simplification of details. A kind of organic unity was what Michelangelo desired.
For this reason, he employed in the construction of S. Peter's those stupendous orders which
out-soar the columns of Baalbec, and those grandiose curves which make the cupola majestic.
A letter written to the Cardinal Ridolfo Pio of Carpi contains this explanation of his principles.
The last two sentences are highly significant:--

"Most Reverend Monsignor,--If a plan has divers parts, those which are of one type in respect
to quality and quantity have to be decorated in the same way and the same fashion. The like
is true of their counterparts. But when the plan changes form entirely, it is not only allowable,
but necessary, to change the decorative appurtenances, as also with their counterparts. The
intermediate parts are always free, left to their own bent. The nose, which stands in the middle
of the forehead, is not bound to correspond with either of the eyes; but one hand must balance
the other, and one eye be like its fellow. Therefore it may be assumed as certain that the
members of an architectural structure follow the laws exemplified in the human body. He who
has not been or is not a good master of the nude, and especially of anatomy, cannot understand
the principles of architecture."

It followed that Michelangelo's first object, when he became Papal architect-in-chief, was
to introduce order into the anarchy of previous plans, and to return, so far as this was now
possible, to Bramante's simpler scheme. He adopted the Greek cross, and substituted a stately
portico for the long vestibule invented by Sangallo. It was not, however, in his nature, nor
did the changed taste of the times permit him to reproduce Bramante's manner. So far as S.
Peter's bears the mark of Michelangelo at all, it represents his own peculiar genius. "The
Pope," says Vasari, "approved his model, which reduced the cathedral to smaller dimensions,
but also to a more essential greatness. He discovered that four principal piers, erected by
Bramante and left standing by Antonio da Sangallo, which had to bear the weight of the tribune,
were feeble. These he fortified in part, constructing two winding staircases at the side, with
gently sloping steps, up which beasts of burden ascend with building material, and one can
ride on horseback to the level above the arches. He carried the first cornice, made of travertine,
round the arches: a wonderful piece of work, full of grace, and very different from the others;
nor could anything be better done in its kind. He began the two great apses of the transept;
and whereas Bramante Raffaello, and Peruzzi had designed eight tabernacles toward the Campo
Santo, which arrangement Sangallo adhered to, he reduced them to three, with three chapels
inside. Suffice it to say that he began at once to work with diligence and accuracy at all
points where the edifice required alteration; to the end that its main features might be fixed,
and that no one might be able to change what he had planned." Vasari adds that this was the
provision of a wise and prudent mind. So it was; but it did not prevent Michelangelo's successors
from defeating his intentions in almost every detail, except the general effect of the cupola.
This will appear in the sequel.

Antonio da Sangallo had controlled the building of S. Peter's for nearly thirty years before
Michelangelo succeeded to his office. During that long space of time he formed a body of architects
and workmen who were attached to his person and interested in the execution of his plans. There
is good reason to believe that in Sangallo's days, as earlier in Bramante's, much money of
the Church had been misappropriated by a gang of fraudulent and mutually indulgent craftsmen.
It was not to be expected that these people should tamely submit to the intruder who put their
master's cherished model on the shelf, and set about, in his high-handed way, to refashion
the whole building from the bottom to the top. During Sangallo's lifetime no love had been
lost between him and Buonarroti, and after his death it is probable that the latter dealt severely
with the creatures of his predecessor. The Pope had given him unlimited powers of appointing
and dismissing subordinates, controlling operations, and regulating expenditure. He was a man
who abhorred jobs and corruption. A letter written near the close of his life, when he was
dealing only with persons nominated by himself, proves this. He addressed the Superintendents
of the Fabric of S. Peter's as follows: "You know that I told Balduccio not to send his lime
unless it were good. He has sent bad quality, and does not seem to think he will be forced
to take it back; which proves that he is in collusion with the person who accepted it. This
gives great encouragement to the men I have dismissed for similar transactions. One who accepts
bad goods needed for the fabric, when I have forbidden them, is doing nothing else but making
friends of people whom I have turned into enemies against myself. I believe there will be a
new conspiracy. Promises, fees, presents, corrupt justice. Therefore I beg you from this time
forward, by the authority I hold from the Pope, not to accept anything which is not suitable,
even though it comes to you from heaven. I must not be made to appear, what I am not, partial
in my dealings." This fiery despatch, indicating not only Michelangelo's probity, but also
his attention to minute details at the advanced age of eighty-six, makes it evident that he
must have been a stern overseer in the first years of his office, terrible to the "sect of
Sangallo," who were bent, on their part, to discredit him.

The sect began to plot and form conspiracies, feeling the violent old man's bit and bridle
on their mouths, and seeing the firm seat he took upon the saddle. For some reason, which is
not apparent, they had the Superintendents of the Fabric (a committee, including cardinals,
appointed by the Pope) on their side. Probably these officials, accustomed to Sangallo and
the previous course of things, disliked to be stirred up and sent about their business by the
masterful new-comer. Michelangelo's support lay, as we shall see, in the four Popes who followed
Paul III. They, with the doubtful exception of Marcellus II., accepted him on trust as a thoroughly
honest servant, and the only artist capable of conducting the great work to its conclusion.
In the last resort, when he was driven to bay, he offered to resign, and was invariably coaxed
back by the final arbiter. The disinterested spirit in which he fulfilled his duties, accepting
no pay while he gave his time and energy to their performance, stood him in good stead. Nothing
speaks better for his perfect probity than that his enemies were unable to bring the slightest
charge of peculation or of partiality against him. Michelangelo's conduct of affairs at S.
Peter's reflects a splendid light upon the tenor of his life, and confutes those detractors
who have accused him of avarice.

The duel between Michelangelo and the sect opened in 1547. A letter written by a friend in
Florence on the 14th of May proves that his antagonists had then good hopes of crushing him.
Giovan Francesco Ughi begins by saying that he has been silent because he had nothing special
to report. "But now Jacopo del Conte has come here with the wife of Nanni di Baccio Bigio,
alleging that he has brought her because Nanni is so occupied at S. Peter's. Among other things,
he says that Nanni means to make a model for the building which will knock yours to nothing.
He declares that what you are about is mad and babyish. He means to fling it all down, since
he has quite as much credit with the Pope as you have. You throw oceans of money away and work
by night, so that nobody may see what you are doing. You follow in the footsteps of a Spaniard,
having no knowledge of your own about the art of building, and he less than nothing. Nanni
stays there in your despite: you did everything to get him removed; but the Pope keeps him,
being convinced that nothing good can be done without him." After this Ughi goes on to relate
how Michelangelo's enemies are spreading all kinds of reports against his honour and good fame,
criticising the cornice of the Palazzo Farnese, and hoping that its weight will drag the walls
down. At the end he adds, that although he knows one ought not to write about such matters,
yet the man's "insolence and blackguardly shamelessness of speech" compel him to put his friend
on his guard against such calumnies.

After the receipt of this letter, Michelangelo sent it to one of the Superintendents of the
Fabric, on whose sympathy he could reckon, with the following indorsement in his own handwriting:
"Messer Bartolommeo (Ferrantino), please read this letter, and take thought who the two rascals
are who, lying thus about what I did at the Palazzo Farnese, are now lying in the matter of
the information they are laying before the deputies of S. Peter's. It comes upon me in return
for the kindness I have shown them. But what else can one expect from a couple of the basest
scoundrelly villains?"

Nanni di Baccio Bigio had, as it seems, good friends at court in Rome. He was an open enemy
of Michelangelo, who, nevertheless, found it difficult to shake him off. In the history of
S. Peter's the man's name will frequently occur.

Three years elapsed. Paul III. died, and Michelangelo wrote to his nephew Lionardo on the occasion:
"It is true that I have suffered great sorrow, and not less loss, by the Pope's death. I received
benefits from his Holiness, and hoped for more and better. God willed it so, and we must have
patience. His passage from this life was beautiful, in full possession of his faculties up
to the last word. God have mercy on his soul." The Cardinal Giovan Maria Ciocchi, of Monte
San Savino, was elected to succeed Paul, and took the title of Julius III. This change of masters
was duly noted by Michelangelo in a letter to his "dearest friend," Giovan Francesco Fattucci
at Florence. It breathes so pleasant and comradely a spirit, that I will translate more than
bears immediately on the present topic: "Dear friend, although we have not exchanged letters
for many months past, still our long and excellent friendship has not been forgotten. I wish
you well, as I have always done, and love you with all my heart, for your own sake, and for
the numberless pleasant things in life you have afforded me. As regards old age, which weighs
upon us both alike, I should be glad to know how yours affects you; mine, I must say, does
not make me very happy. I beg you, then, to write me something about this. You know, doubtless,
that we have a new Pope, and who he is. All Rome is delighted, God be thanked; and everybody
expects the greatest good from his reign, especially for the poor, his generosity being so
notorious."

Michelangelo had good reason to rejoice over this event, for Julius III. felt a real attachment
to his person, and thoroughly appreciated both his character and his genius. Nevertheless,
the enemies he had in Rome now made a strong effort to dislodge Buonarroti from his official
position at S. Peter's. It was probably about this time that the Superintendents of the Fabric
drew up a memorial expressive of their grievances against him. We possess a document in Latin
setting forth a statement of accounts in rough. "From the year 1540, when expenditures began
to be made regularly and in order, from the very commencement as it were, up to the year 1547,
when Michelangelo, at his own will and pleasure, undertook partly to build and partly to destroy,
162,624 ducats were expended. Since the latter date on to the present, during which time the
deputies have served like the pipe at the organ, knowing nothing, nor what, nor how moneys
were spent, but only at the orders of the said Michelangelo, such being the will of Paul III.
of blessed memory, and also of the reigning Pontiff, 136,881 ducats have been paid out, as
can be seen from our books. With regard to the edifice, what it is going to be, the deputies
can make no statement, all things being hidden from them, as though they were outsiders. They
have only been able to protest at several times, and do now again protest, for the easement
of their conscience, that they do not like the ways used by Michelangelo, especially in what
he keeps on pulling down. The demolition has been, and to-day is so great, that all who witness
it are moved to an extremity of pity. Nevertheless, if his Holiness be satisfied, we, his deputies,
shall have no reason to complain." It is clear that Michelangelo was carrying on with a high
hand at S. Peter's. Although the date of this document is uncertain, I think it may be taken
in connection with a general meeting called by Julius III., the incidents of which are recorded
by Vasari. Michelangelo must have demonstrated his integrity, for he came out of the affair
victorious, and obtained from the Pope a brief confirming him in his office of architect-in-chief,
with even fuller powers than had been granted by Paul III.

VIII

