THE VAUDOIS OF PIEDMONT.

                            THE

                    VAUDOIS OF PIEDMONT:

                  A Visit to their Valleys,

         WITH A SKETCH OF THEIR REMARKABLE HISTORY AS
                     A CHURCH AND PEOPLE

                     TO THE PRESENT DATE.

                   With Map of the Valleys.

                             BY

                   REV. J. N. WORSFOLD, M.A.,

         Vicar of Christ Church, Somers Town, London.

              "TRITUNTUR MALLEI REMANET INCUS."

                           LONDON:

             J. F. SHAW & CO., 48, PATERNOSTER ROW.

                            1873.

                          PREFACE.

An eminent living scholar, Dr. Tischendorf, has remarked, that in these days there is need
of "little books on great subjects." It was something of that feeling which led me to the idea
of supplementing the large and learned works of Muston, Monastier, Gilly, and others, by a
pocket volume, so small that the tourist might not feel it an incumbrance, and yet so comprehensive,
that those who have not the leisure for larger works, might obtain useful knowledge of the
Waldenses.

Whether I shall have succeeded in this aim the public must judge.

I may, however, add that the absorbing nature of my parochial work has prevented my doing justice
to the subject, from a literary point of view, and, therefore, I must ask my readers to kindly
think of it merely as an earnest desire to diminish somewhat of the lack of information which
I have discovered even among educated and benevolent persons, with regard to the history and
ecclesiastical character of the Vaudois.

And, secondly, to evoke help towards their work generally, but especially to call out contributions,
by means of which a MEMORIAL CHURCH may be erected near the site of the ancient college of
the Vaudois, at Pra del Tor, Val Angrogna, and so still further illustrate the accuracy of
the ancient motto of the Vaudois, "The hammers are broken, the anvil remains."

              "TRITUNTUR MALLEI REMANET INCUS."

13, Oakley Square, N.W., July, 1873.

                          CONTENTS.

                         CHAPTER I.
                                                      Page
THE JOURNEY AND ITS MOTIVE                             1-5

                         CHAPTER II.

THE WHEREABOUTS OF THE VALLEYS, AND TOPOGRAPHICAL FEATURES                                
6-8

                        CHAPTER III.

ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF THE WALDENSES AS A DISTINCT COMMUNITY                             
9-13

                         CHAPTER IV.

CREED AND ORGANIZATION OF THE WALDENSIAN CHURCH      14-22

                         CHAPTER V.

THE BEGINNING OF PAPAL PERSECUTIONS                  23-27

                         CHAPTER VI.

THE SPIRITUAL CONDITION OF THE WALDENSES FROM THE RISE OF THE ROMAN INQUISITION TO THAT OF
THE PROTESTANT REFORMATION                                          28-37

                        CHAPTER VII.

PEACE BETWEEN FRANCE AND SPAIN INITIATES THE SECOND GREAT PERSECUTION OF THE VAUDOIS.--THEIR
LOYALTY AND THEIR CONDITION DOWN TO A.D. 1655                38-44

                        CHAPTER VIII.

"THE BLOODY PASCHA"--LOYALTY EVEN BEYOND THE POWER OF PERFIDY AND PERSECUTION TO QUENCH.--REVOCATION
OF THE EDICT OF NANTES.--THE CRIMES OF LOUIS XIV. INVOLVES THE VALLEYS IN TROUBLE, EVEN GREATER
THAN BEFORE.--TREACHERY OF GABRIEL OF SAVOY.--EXILE                                        45-51

                         CHAPTER IX.

RORA AND JANAVELLO                                   52-62

                         CHAPTER X.

THE VALLEYS REGAINED UNDER HENRI ARNAUD              63-89

                         CHAPTER XI.

THE VAUDOIS FROM THEIR RETURN TO THE FRENCH REVOLUTION, AND THE RESTORATION OF THE HOUSE OF
SAVOY TO THEIR DOMINIONS                                   90-95

                        CHAPTER XII.

THE VAUDOIS FROM THE RESTORATION TO THE EDICT OF EMANCIPATION                             
96-103

                        CHAPTER XIII.

THE WALDENSIAN CHURCH, FROM THE GENERAL PEACE TO THE DATE OF VISITS FROM DR. GILLY AND GENERAL
BECKWITH                                           104-113

                        CHAPTER XIV.

WALDENSIAN CHURCH PROGRESS IN ITS OWN VALLEYS, FROM 1827 TO 1848                          
114-119

                         CHAPTER XV.

THE CHURCH OF THE VALLEYS AS THE EVANGELIST OF ITALY.--ITS HOME CLAIMS AND NEEDS          
120-130

                  THE VAUDOIS OF PIEDMONT.

                         CHAPTER I.

Early on the morning of Easter Monday, 1871, in company with a devoted Italian pastor, I left
my temporary home in the comfortable "Grand Hotel," in the little town of Pallanza, to gratify
a long-felt desire of visiting that part of Europe made sacred by ages of heroic suffering
and courageous endurance for faith and fatherland--the valleys of Piedmont. As we steamed up
the lake Maggiore the thin mist of early morn cleared off, and by the time we had passed the
far-famed Borromean Islands the eye was ravished with the scenes of beauty on every side. Trees
and flowers bloomed forth in the lovely vesture of an Italian spring, and the hills, villas,
and gardens on the shores of the lake were imaged forth as in a mirror on its own fair bosom.

In this reverie of delight our boat landed us at Arona, where we disembarked and entered the
train for Turin. We reached the latter city in about three hours, and after a short delay at
the refreshment-room, called upon the Vaudois pastor, the Rev. J. P. Meille, who received us
most kindly, and showed us over the stately temple belonging to his church, situated in one
of the best streets (the Corso del Re), and which, by its imposing character, as compared with
the general simplicity of the Vaudois ecclesiastical buildings, fitly illustrates their altered
circumstances as a Church and a community--no longer persecuted, plundered, proscribed, and
down-trodden!

The erection of this building was indeed the first public and palpable evidence that the era
of political and religious liberty for the Waldenses, inaugurated by the edict of emancipation,
dated February 17th, 1848, was really to be enjoyed by them. Its foundations were laid on the
29th October, 1851, by a solemn ceremonial. Delegates from the table of the Vaudois Church,
the consistory of Turin, and all the representatives of Protestant states, together with a
numerous concourse of sympathizers and lookers-on, were present. This great innovation upon
the long reign of intolerance was not accomplished without considerable effort. In the first
place, it was necessary to obtain the authorization of the government, and this was the more
difficult from the circumstance that liberty of conscience and public worship were not formally
inscribed on the "Statuto," so that the government might have refused the authorization, and
yet not have violated the strict letter of the law. Happily, however, the president of the
council of ministers at that time was the Count Cavour, whose influence procured the necessary
permission. Many attempts, however, were made to undo this concession, and even when the royal
sanction had been obtained these efforts were so numerous and influential that nothing but
the proverbial justice of the sovereign, and the constancy of his minister, availed to secure
success. The last piece of opposition to the desire of the Vaudois and their friends was made
by a man whose name remained as the living incarnation of the former régime, the Count Solaro
Margherita, who, during the long years under the reign of Charles Albert, had held the helm
of the state, and was completely in bondage to the Jesuits. Though infirm in body, he betook
himself to the presence of the successor of his ancient master, and falling on his knees, said
to him, "Sire, do not refuse one of the most faithful servants of your dynasty the last favour
that he will ask of you before he quits this earth, viz., that you do not allow the good and
loyal city of Turin to have the grief and shame of seeing erected within its walls an edifice
set apart for the preaching of heresy." (See MEILLE'S Life of Gen. Beckwith.) The king referred
the suppliant to his ministers, who never dreamt of recalling their decision, and the good
work proceeded. So that within a little over two years from its commencement the dedication
of the temple took place, on the 15th of December, 1853. There was a great gathering of all
ranks of society, including the greater portion of the diplomatique body resident in Turin,
the senators, the deputies, a delegation from the national guard of the city with their officers
at their head. This last circumstance seems to have given special umbrage to the more bigoted
Romanists, inasmuch as their organ, L'Armonia, wrote as follows:--"The 15th of December will
be written among the most disgraceful in the annals of Piedmont--the Eighth Anniversary of
the Immaculate Conception, and the Valdesi have appointed it as the day for the solemn opening
of the Protestant temple." And it goes on to say, those who have ordered the national guard
to take part in the ceremony "have attempted to dishonour the city militia."

But gratifying as it was to me to contemplate this sacred edifice, yet we were anxious not
to lose time in reaching the valleys, so we left by the afternoon train for Pinerolo, a town
of ominous memories as regards its past connection with its Protestant neighbours. Missionaries,
monks, and soldiers have often started forth from this point to molest or destroy those whose
virtues they should rather have endeavoured to imitate. The last enterprise of this kind was
brought about by the instigation of Archbishop Charvaz of Pinerolo, during the years 1840-1844.

From the railway station at Pinerolo we changed our conveyance, and took a seat on the outside
of the diligence for La Torre. On our way we passed the small towns of San Secondo, celebrated
as the place where a Christian martyr suffered in the third century, Bricherasio, where deeds
of violence were perpetrated against those whose forefathers owned the soil from which their
children have been long excluded. Although the shades of evening were closing over us ere we
finished our journey, yet we could not fail to be impressed with the nature of the territory
to which we were drawing nigh. Monte Viso reared its snow-crested cone with a seeming sense
of its majesty. It has been beautifully described as looking like a pyramid starting out of
a sea of mountain ridges, and from certain points of view to surpass even Mont Blanc in grandeur,
inasmuch as it stands out in larger space, and so makes a more powerful impression on the senses.
Although but 12,000 feet high, no one has been able to scale the summit of its gigantic rocks.
"Free from the tread of human foot, it is the Jungfrau of the South, the powerful spirit which
watches over our valleys; for in the shade of its granite sides the torch of the gospel found
refuge for its light." Full of grand emotions as we neared the spot, our diligence brought
us to the little capital, La Torre Pelice, where, under the hospitable roof of the Bear Hotel,
we rest for the night.

                         CHAPTER II.

Before narrating my personal adventures in the valleys, I fancy I may consult the profit of
my readers if I give a brief topographical outline of the district of which La Torre is the
chief town. It lies about thirty miles south-west of Turin, having Mont Viso and the French
province of Dauphiny for its south-western border. Mont Genevre is the extreme point in the
north-westerly direction, and from its sides the boundary of the upper portions of the valleys
turns in a north-easterly direction along that ridge of the Alps which separates Savoy from
Piedmont by the Col de Sestrieres, Fenestrelle, Perousa, down to the plains, including the
valleys of Pragela, San Martino, Perousa, Angrogna, and Pelice, or Lucerna, and terminating
with the parish of San Giovanni as its most easterly point; though formerly the Vaudois territories
extended to the entire valley of the Clusone, and they had several churches in the neighbourhood
of Susa, as well as in the principality of Saluzzo to the south-east. However, persecution
and confiscation have now reduced them to a tract which is about twenty-two miles in its greatest
length by a little over sixteen in its extreme width. Its area may be about three hundred square
miles, and as so large a space is covered with mountains, it imposes considerable difficulties
in the way of productive cultivation. Its population is about twenty thousand persons, which
at one time were almost exclusively Protestant, but the disabilities imposed on the Vaudois
(of which we shall speak in another chapter) have compelled many of them to leave their native
valleys for France, Germany, America, and other countries, in order to obtain a livelihood.
As regards scenery, it is difficult to describe its surpassing loveliness, and certainly no
exaggeration to say that the traveller in this district is often favoured by a combination
most delightful, viz., the soft luxuriance of Italy in the lower slopes and broader valleys,
joined with the wildness and grandeur of Switzerland in the narrower glens and loftier mountain
ranges. And this apart from the wealth of its historic glories. In reference to climate, the
valleys of Pelice, Angrogna, with Perousa, are warm and productive, those of Martino and Pragela
cold and barren. The soil in the mountain parishes yields the same kind of vegetables and corn
as are to be found in our North of England parishes; the mountain slopes yield pasturage for
cattle, and the higher ridges are covered with the pine, elm, and ash trees. In the lower valleys,
particularly in the parishes of San Giovanni, Lucerna, La Torre, you will observe the chestnut,
mulberry, and the vine. As to roads and means of communication, there is nothing to complain
of, particularly from the month of June to September; though I found it so hot in the month
of April as to be obliged to stay in-doors from noon to about four o'clock in the afternoon.
As to accommodation for travellers, I can speak well of the Bear Hotel at La Torre; and I have
read a good account of the Sun at Perousa, as likewise the Red Rose at Fenestrelle, for passing
travellers. Having given the above with a view of answering questions often asked, especially
by intending tourists, I return to the story of my own observations in La Torre. The place
is not unlike other small towns in the Swiss cantons. There are a fair sprinkling of shops,
with post-office, town-hall, and market-place. In the centre of the latter I observed a prominent
sun-dial, with the following very appropriate motto, Vita fugit sicut umbra.

                        CHAPTER III.

        THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF THE WALDENSES.

After enquiring as to the geographical position of the Waldensian valleys, the next most frequent
questions which arise are: Who are the Waldenses? how long have they been in the valleys of
Piedmont? what circumstances led to their taking up their abode there? and what has given to
their history that peculiar characteristic which makes every detail both of their past and
present so intensely interesting to all the lovers of piety and patriotism wherever the story
of their high-souled courage or their long-enduring faith has reached? It is to answer these
questions, as briefly and yet as accurately as possible, that we address ourselves in this chapter.

And, first of all, we would state very distinctly that there is no ground for believing that
their name of Waldenses is taken from that of Peter Waldo, the celebrated merchant of Lyons.
Not only because they date their origin centuries before his time, but also because the names
they bear of Waldenses, Vaudois, and Valdesi all refer to the place of their abode, and not
to that of any individual whose opinions they had embraced, or whose leadership they had followed.
It may further be observed, in opposition to the opinion of the Waldenses being named after
Peter Waldo, that his second name does not appear as applied to him prior to his condemnation
as an heretic; and, moreover, the various ways in which it is written, e.g., sometimes Valdo,
sometimes Valdus, at other times Valdesius or Valdensis, shows that the word was not a proper
name, but a mere appellative. So with regard to the idea that Vaudois comes from Vaudes, a
sorcerer, it would be more correct to say that the term sorcerer was one applied by the inhabitants
of the plains to those who were Vaudois, or hill-men, under the notion that the inhabitants
of such localities practised sorcery. Hence we are compelled to assume that the name is purely
geographical, and applied from time immemorial to the persons living in those valleys of Piedmont
which have ever formed part of the Italian territory, and are not to be confounded with the
Swiss Canton de Vaud, bearing a name so like because of the similarity of geographical conformation.

In answer to the next question, How long have the Waldenses lived in the locality from which
they derive their name? Da ogni tempo, da tempo immemoriale--from all time, from time immemorial--is
the claim set up by them in their earliest documents, and repeated over and over again in their
petitions to the House of Savoy for liberty of conscience.[A] Nor is there any attempt to refute
this claim of antiquity on the part of their princes or their persecutors.

To this statement of the Waldenses themselves we will add corroborative testimony from others.

Their enemies. We begin with Reinerius the Inquisitor, A.D. 1250. He refers to the Waldenses
under the term of Leonists, and says that this sect has been of longer continuance (than the
others to which he refers), having lasted, some say, from the time of Pope Sylvester (314),
and others from the time of the apostles.

Pilichdorf, a writer of the same date, expressly asserts that the Waldenses claimed to have
existed from the time of Pope Sylvester, and Claude Seyssel, Archbishop of Turin from the close
of the fifteenth century to the beginning of the sixteenth, and whose diocese extended to the
valleys of Piedmont, says that the Waldenses took their origin from Leo, a person in the time
of ye Emperor Constantine, who, hating the avarice of Pope Sylvester and the immoderate endowment
of the Church of Rome, seceded from her communion, and "drew after him all who entertained
right sentiments about the Christian religion."

Next in order we may take the testimony of Rorenco, Grand Prior of St. Roch in Turin, and one
of the lords of the valley of Luserne. He was commissioned to investigate the history of the
"men of the valleys," and published the result of his labours in the year 1632. He says "that
the Waldenses were no new sect, but had been in those valleys for more than five or six centuries,"
and in proof of this remarks further, that "no edict of any prince who gave permission for
the introduction of this religion into these parts can be found. Princes only give permission
to their subjects to continue in the religion of their ancestors." Cassini, an Italian priest,
declares that the tradition handed down was, that "the Waldenses were as ancient as the Christian
Church."

Another writer, Henri de Corvie, describes them as men descended from "an ancient race, inhabiting
the Alps, and have been always attached to ancient customs." Voltaire, an impartial witness,
speaks of the Waldenses as "the remains of the first Christians of Gaul." If it be asked for
documentary proof, in the possession of the Waldensians themselves, it should be remembered
that Leger, the historian, collected together all that he could find, and that these were taken
from him when he was imprisoned in Turin, A.D. 1655. Still, documents of great value and antiquity
have been preserved, and among these must be enumerated "The Noble Lesson," a didactic poem
of about five hundred lines. Three MSS. of this poem are preserved in the libraries of the
Universities of Cambridge, Geneva, and Dublin, and the date assigned is early in the twelfth
century. The dialect in which it is written is also considered by some as an unquestionable
proof of the high antiquity of the document. For example, the eminent philologist, M. Renouard,
writing as a philologist, and not as an historian, remarks that "the dialect of the Vaudois
is an idiom intermediate between the decomposition of the language of the Romans and the establishment
of a new grammatical system." This philological circumstance shows the extreme earliness of
the period at which the Waldenses must have betaken themselves to the Cottian Alps, inasmuch
as it proves that they left the Italian plains before the establishment of the new grammatical
system referred to by M. Renouard. This is the opinion of Mr. Faber, who contends that "the
primevally Latin Vaudois must have retired from the lowlands of Italy to the valleys of Piedmont
in the very days of primitive Christianity, and before the breaking up of the Roman empire
by the incursions of the Teutonic nations." And this leads to another question. Why did these
people leave their homes in the fertile plains and betake themselves to the less temperate
climate and the rugged soil of a mountainous region? Plainly there must have been some very
urgent cause, and that cause may be readily perceived in the record of the persecutions against
the Christians under the Pagan emperors during the second, third, and fourth centuries.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] E.G.--In a memorial to Philibert Emmanuel, A.D. 1559, they say, "This religion which we
profess is not only ours ... but it was the religion of our fathers, grandfathers, great-grandfathers,
and other yet more ancient predecessors of ours, and of the blessed martyrs, confessors, prophets,
and apostles; and if any can prove the contrary, we are ready to subscribe and yield thereunto."

                         CHAPTER IV.

We come now to the creed and organization of the Waldensian Church. First, as regards the rule
of faith, it expresses its belief in the supremacy of the Word of God in terms precisely identical
with the Sixth Article of the Church of England. And, in a document previously referred to,
declares, "We do protest before the Almighty and All-just God, before whose tribunal we must
all one day appear, that we intend to live and die in the holy faith, piety, and religion of
our Lord Jesus Christ; and that we do abhor all heresies that have been and are condemned by
the Word of God.

"We do embrace the most holy doctrine of the prophets and apostles, as likewise of the Nicene
and Athanasian Creeds. We subscribe to the four councils, and to all the ancient fathers, in
all such things as are not repugnant to the analogy of faith." They protest against the assumptions
and the encroachments of the papacy much in the same way as do the Thirty-nine Articles of
the Church of England; they also accept the opinions of evangelical Christendom in relation
to the fall of man--justification by faith alone; redemption through the merits of the lord
Jesus Christ; regeneration by the Holy Spirit; fruitfulness in good works as the necessary
result of a living faith; the character of worship acceptable to God; the obligations and privileges
of the Lord's day, and of the two sacraments, baptism and the Lord's Supper, as appointed by
the Lord Jesus Christ, and binding upon the grateful observance of His believing people. It
is not true, as has sometimes been asserted, that they have ever rejected the practice of infant
baptism. They have prepared and enjoined the use of a very sound and full catechism, in which
the children of the Waldenses are carefully instructed previous to their admission to the Lord's
table.

So far we have sketched the leading points in the creed of the Waldensian Church. We now come
to its organization. There seem to have been three epochs, so to speak, in reference to this
feature of its history. For some eleven hundred years it remained as a portion of the universal
and primitive church, rejecting the encroachments of the papal power, and the corruptions of
Christian doctrine which that power imposed, not by authoritative enactments so much as by
irregular influences, upon the greater part of the Western Church. During this time the church
in the valleys of Piedmont retained that system of church government and worship which had
been accepted by most, if not all, sections of the Christian Church in the third and fourth
centuries. It was, therefore, during this period that the Waldensian Church enjoyed the privilege
of that episcopacy which she never rejected as a matter of principle, but became deprived of
by circumstances which gave her no choice. In proof of this I refer to that passage in the
letter of Jerome to Riparius respecting Vigilantius, whose zealous and persevering opposition
to the worship of saints, images, and relics, &c., had greatly provoked the irascible monk
of Bethlehem. "I saw (says Jerome) a short time ago that monster Vigilantius. I would fain
have bound this madman by passages of Holy Writ, as Hippocrates advises to confine maniacs
with bonds; but he has departed, he has withdrawn, he has hurried away, he has escaped, and
from the space between the Alps, where Cottius reigned,[B] and the waves of the Adriatic, his
cries have reached me. Oh, infamous! he has found even among the bishops accomplices of his
wickedness."

Here then we learn that in the country inhabited by the Waldenses there were bishops opposing
the corruption and contending for the priests of the Christian faith. Nor was this confined
even to Northern Italy; for we learn that two centuries later Gregory the Great, who was pope
from A.D. 590 to 604, censures Seremius, bishop of Marseilles, for not only forbidding the
adoration of images (which Gregory says he would have commended), but for actually destroying
the images themselves. Towards the middle of the eighth century the prelates of the Gallican
Church especially distinguished themselves by their determined opposition to such doctrines
as the worship of images and relics, masses for the dead, purgatory, celibacy of the priests,
supremacy of the popes, &c., errors inculcated, it would seem, by the English monk Boniface,
who has been called the apostle of Germany.

The correspondence between Pope Zachary and Boniface further reveals the existence of a Christian
community in Germany, holding a faith more evangelical, and observing a ritual more scriptural,
than that which Rome was seeking to impose; e.g., Zachary says in his tenth letter: "As for
the priests, whom your fraternity report to have found (who are more numerous than the Catholics
(sic) wandering about disguised under the name of bishops or priests, not ordained by Catholic
(i.e., Romish) bishops, who deceive the people) ... they are false vagabonds," &c.

But the most interesting proof of the existence of evangelical resistance to popish corruption
is that afforded by the conduct of Claude, bishop of the metropolitical see of Turin, and in
such close proximity to those valleys whose history we are considering.

Claude, bishop of Turin, was a native of Spain, and so incidentally brings to mind the remembrance
of the fact that Spain, too, had upon her soil in days gone by those who loved "to worship
God in sincerity and truth." He was chosen by Louis the Meek for the bishopric of Turin, on
the ground of his scriptural piety and evangelical eloquence. Being attacked by Jonas, bishop
of Orleans, and others, he defended himself with great ability; and in reply to the charge
that he was seeking to establish a new sect, he answers, "I, who remain in the unity of the
Church, and proclaim the truth, aim at forming no new sect; but, as far as lies in my power,
I repress sects, schisms, superstitions, and heresies; I have combated, overthrown, and crushed
them, and, by God's assistance, I shall not cease to do so to the utmost." These words of Claude,
"I repress sects," seem clearly to imply that in the diocese of Turin disaffection to Romish
innovation had a recognized existence, and definite, though not of necessity an independent,
organization; and that Claude, standing firm upon the platform "of the faith once delivered
to the saints" as the true centre of unity, was attaching to himself all those whose principles
were analogous to the ancient church of the valleys. And I think we may fairly assume that
the fifteen years' episcopate of so distinguished a prelate must have given a great assistance
to that portion of his people who sought "to stand in the old ways." Indeed the Marquis de
Beauregard, in his Historic Memoirs, expressly states that this bishop had a great number of
adherents, that they were anathematized by the pope, persecuted by the lay princes, chased
from the open country, and so forced to take refuge in the mountains, where they have kept
their ground from that time, always checked, but always endeavouring to extend themselves.
(Vol. ii. p. 50.)

After the time of Claude, however, the connection of the church in the valleys with that to
which it originally belonged became probably less and less distinct, owing to the more decided
growth of corruption and the extension of papal influence, so that, as regards the greater
portion of Europe, primitive faith and practice was submerged by papal superstition and tyranny.
Therefore about this time, as appears from the Waldensian book entitled Antichrist, the church
of the valleys entered on what we call its second epoch, and became isolated as regards organization,
though not as regards doctrine, from the earlier church. This epoch may be regarded as reaching
down to about the seventeenth century. I fix upon this date because of the remarkable providence
which befell the Vaudois Church in 1630.

This was none other than a pestilential visitation brought into the valleys by the French troops,
who were at this time occupying the valleys. By this terrible plague some ten thousand of the
Vaudois perished, including twelve pastors. Only three pastors being now left, application
was made to Geneva for assistance, and pastors being sent from thence introduced a polity which
was Presbyterian rather than Episcopalian. Still the marked deference to authority, the succession
of the ministers elected by their predecessors from time to time, the orderly administration
of the sacraments, the use of the creeds and of a liturgy, the entire absence of any protest
against the orders of the ministry customary in the early church, while so much is so pointedly
said respecting corruptions of doctrine, clearly sustain the inference that the Waldensian
Church adapted herself to the form of organization adopted by the reformed churches of the
continent not from choice, but from such a concurrence of circumstances as completely vindicates
her from any wilful departure from the traditions of her earlier history.

It was at this time also, and from the circumstance that the pastors supplied from Geneva could
only officiate in the French tongue, that the French language was used in worship.

This brings me to notice the organization of the Waldensian Church as it now exists, and has
existed for the last two hundred years. The full and formal confession of faith is that which
was agreed upon by the synod of 1655, and confirmed in the years 1839 and 1855.

The Evangelical Waldensian Church, in its widest sense, embraces all those churches whom God
in His mercy has condescended to preserve from time immemorial, and subject to numberless persecutions
in the valleys of the Italian Alps. It also includes those churches which have been more recently
added. As regards organization, the Waldensian is subdivided into parishes, and is governed
by means of a general assembly of the parish, a consistory, synod, and table.

The general assembly of the parish is composed of all the members of the church, being men
who are twenty-five years of age. To this assembly belongs (a) the nomination of the pastors;
(b) the deputies to synod; (c) the elders and deacons; (d) the initiative of any proposal for
altering the constitution of the church.

It is always presided over by the pastor, or, in his unavoidable absence, by a member of the
consistory chosen for the purpose.

The Consistory is composed of the pastor, who presides, the elders, and the deacons, the last
of whom have only a deliberative vote. Its functions are to provide for the spiritual wants
of the parish, and also the poor and sick; to assist in the distribution of the elements at
the administration of the Holy Communion; to nominate the teachers and superintend the schools,
either wholly or in association with the communal council; also to administer church discipline;
distribute parochial charities and funds for religious purposes. On this behalf each consistory
appoints its own treasurer.

The Synod is the representative assembly of the Vaudois Church, and consists of all recognized
pastors and certain laymen chosen by the parishes. It takes cognizance of every matter affecting
the welfare and duties of the church; it alters, adds, or abolishes all rules and regulations
connected with its administration or discipline; it directs the course of theological study
and admission to the ministry; it nominates the members of the table or any special bodies
of commissioners for particular occasions; it superintends all evangelic work, whether in the
valleys or its numerous mission stations in other places. It now meets yearly, but in former
times its meetings were seldom, and were attended by a representative of the civil power.

THE TABLE is the executive of the Vaudois Church, and consists of five members, the moderator,
assistant moderator, and secretary being pastors, with two laymen. The table is appointed by
the synod from year to year, and responsible to that body in respect of its operations.

The officers of the Vaudois Church are pastors, evangelists, elders, and deacons. To exercise
the office of pastor a person must be set apart by the laying on of hands, previous to which
he must ([alpha]) have attained the age of twenty-three, ([beta]) have the requisite gifts
for the work of the ministry, ([gamma]) be of irreproachable character, ([delta]) receive a
certificate from his university or other place of education, ([epsilon]) profess convictions
in harmony with the doctrines and discipline of the Vaudois Church. These points are decided
by the table, in concert with the whole body of the pastors of the church. Furthermore, a pastor
is not allowed to have the sole care of a parish before he has reached the age of twenty-five
years.

It is not necessary to speak of the functions of the evangelists, as the name itself is explicit,
and the office one common to all evangelical churches, although denominated by a different
title, e.g. catechist, reader, lay missionary.

The elders are lay members of the church of well-known religious character, residing in the
parish, and not receiving any benefit from the funds they may be called upon to administer.
At an election of an elder for the first time he is required before installation to undergo
an examination by a commission from the consistory of his own parish, assisted by a pastor
from the nearest adjoining parish. The elder is chosen for life, unless he voluntarily resigns,
or falls into a breach of church discipline, or becomes incapacitated by failing health; in
the latter case, however, he retains the title of honorary elder.

The deacons must have much the same qualifications as the elders. They are elected for five
years, and their special work is the care of the sick and needy. In addition to a zealous observance
of the Lord's-day, the Waldensian Church pays a religious regard to Christmas-day, New-year's-day,
Ascension-day, and Good Friday, which last it keeps with great solemnity as a fast-day common
to the whole Church of Christ.

FOOTNOTES:

[B] The Cottian Alps are to the north of Mount Viso, and among them are the valleys of the
Waldenses.

                         CHAPTER V.

            THE BEGINNING OF PAPAL PERSECUTIONS.

    "We kept Thy faith 'gainst kings of might,
      And potentates infernal;
    We kept Thy faith in Rome's despite,
      By help of grace supernal.
    The foe was fierce, the war was long;
    But oh! our helper was more strong,
      Our lover was eternal."

During the struggles of the papacy for temporal aggrandizement and political usurpation, which
marked its character from the seventh to the twelfth centuries, anything so religious as even
the attempt to convert heretics by fire and sword seems little attended to. But in the twelfth
century arose the epoch in which men were to be thrown into a burning fiery furnace who would
not bow down to the tyranny of him who sat enthroned in the city of the seven hills. Otho IV.,
Emperor of Germany by favour of the pope, first gave his sanction to the persecution of the
Waldenses, at the instigation of James, bishop of Turin, about the end of the 12th century.[C]
But the first systematic persecution began under the regency exercised by Yolande, widow of
Amadeus IX., Duke of Savoy, A.D. 1475. The expression (in her directions to the governors of
Pinerolo, Cavour, and the magistrate at Lucerna), "It is our pleasure that the inhabitants
of the valley of Lucerna especially may be able to enter into the bosom of the holy mother
church," would seem to recognize the fact that the Vaudois were a community independent of
Rome, otherwise we should expect the word return, which is so generally used in reference to
heretics, as the Church of Rome delights to stigmatize all who reject her sway. This edict
of Yolande led to the martyrdom of Vaudois pastors, some by fire, some by hanging, some in
ways more revolting and excruciating, at Turin and other places. But the destruction of a few
victims would not satisfy the malignant spirit of the papal antichrist, therefore the work
of persecution must be organized on a larger scale. Innocent VIII. selected Albert de Capitaneis,
Archdeacon of Cremona, as his agent for the accomplishment of this pious design.

    "One of the saintly murderous brood,
      To carnage and the crosier given,
    Who think through unbelievers' blood
      Lies their directest path to heaven."

                               (MOORE, slightly altered.)

The papal bull initiating this work of shame promised to all who should engage in it "plenary
indulgence, with remission of their sins once and at the hour of death." It also gave permission
to appropriate the lands and goods of the heretics. All along the valley of the Po, and over
the regions of the Cottian Alps, the bull of Innocent was talked of. Charles VIII. of France
and Charles II. of Savoy sanctioned its design. The year 1488 marks an era of suffering for
the Vaudois and of infamy to Rome.

Some 18,000 soldiers responded to the call of De Capitaneis. He forms them into two bodies.
One proceeds to devastate Dauphine and the district near from the west, while the other division,
attacking from Piedmont, is to ravage the east; and as the two bodies approach each other they
aim to enclose their victims, and so to prevent their escape. These victims were all unprepared
for the vengeance which impended. Engaged in peaceful tillage, they had no means of defence,
but fled to the rocks and caves, where their persecutors followed them, and being unable to
reach them in their retreats, they piled up fuel at the mouths of the caverns, and so compelled
the Vaudois to choose between death by suffocation or the sword.

By such conduct some 3000 persons, including 400 young children, perished in the vale of Loyse.
The Val Pragela also suffered much. But in the Clusone, after the first feelings of surprise
had passed away, the inhabitants successfully repulsed their invaders. In the valley of Lucerna,
San Giovanni, La Torre, Villaro Bobbio, and their hamlets, fell into the hands of the enemy.
Still their career was sometimes checked by successful resistance, and deserved retribution.
An example of this occurred to a detachment numbering some 700 Piedmontese troops, who were
attempting to surprise the valley of San Martino by way of the Col Juliano. This body of soldiers,
on reaching Pommiers, was attacked with such vigour and determination by the inhabitants of
Prali, that only one of their number escaped destruction. This was an ensign, who concealed
himself under a mass of snow, which had been excavated by the summer heat. Cold and hunger
eventually compelled him to descend and ask mercy from those whom he had come to destroy. His
petition was granted, and he was allowed to depart with the news of the defeat and destruction
of his companions.

After this humiliating repulse, the invaders sought to attack the vale of Angrogna, as being
the heart and centre of the valleys, and the place of refuge and defence to their threatened
inhabitants.

Indeed, the Vaudois, unable to contend with the enemy's troops in the plains, had betaken themselves
(as many as could) to that natural fortress, the Pra del Torre, which God had provided in the
upper part of the Val Angrogna. I shall have much to say about this sacred and glorious spot--the
more than a Thermopylæ to these Christian heroes, ennobled by a bravery equal to that of the
Spartan, but radiant with brighter memories. But here I only digress to add that the invaders'
attempt to get possession of this valley from the heights of Roccamanente were happily frustrated.
The Vaudois had to endure a severe contest, for which they prepared themselves by prayer. Their
enemies, with their leader, seeing them on their knees, ridiculed their piety and threatened
their destruction. But Le Noir of Mondovi, himself having raised his visor on account of the
heat, and to show his contempt for his adversaries, was mortally wounded between his eyes by
an arrow. His companions were so terrified that they retreated with great loss. The enemy,
however, irritated and ashamed, renewed the attack from another position on the side of Rocciaglia.
They sought to enter the Pra del Torre by a narrow defile. At this moment a thick fog so confused
them that they were afraid to move lest they should run into danger. The Angrognians, emboldened
by this interposition of Providence, issued forth from their retreats, and by means of their
knowledge of the locality cut off the escape of their enemies, and forced them over the precipitous
rocks into the foaming torrent, where large numbers perished, including a man of gigantic size
named Saquet, whose eventful death has caused the pool in which he fell to be called Tompi Saquet.

After similar attempts in other parts of the valleys, during which time much blood was shed,
this first of the great persecutions, which had lasted a year, ended in 1489, by Charles II.,
Prince of Piedmont and Duke of Savoy, who felt ashamed of the cruelties which were inflicted.

FOOTNOTES:

[C] Monastier gives some very interesting information on the persecution of the Vaudois out
of Piedmont (chap. xiv.), which lies beyond the scope of this volume.

                         CHAPTER VI.

Although the story of the long-continued and heroically endured sufferings of the Vaudois may
have been the most prominent thought in the minds of those who recall their history, yet it
is at least to the Christian as important to remember their works of faith and labours of love
in the cause of Christ. Indeed were it not for the latter we should never have known the former.
It would seem as if the missionary zeal of the Waldenses was one of the chief causes (or at
least occasions) of the persecutions which they endured. Hence Bernard de Foucald (Monastier
History), a writer of the twelfth century, says, "These Waldenses, although condemned by Pope
Lucius II., continued to pour forth, with daring effrontery, far and wide all over the world,
the poison of their perfidy."

Indeed a church whose motto was a burning torch, and whose directory that sacred word which
counsels the followers of Christ to "let their light shine before men," was not likely to be
content with possessing the truth merely for itself. So we learn that in the distribution of
the funds contributed by the church a portion was assigned to the purpose of maintaining a
body of pastors for the foreign work. These pastors being trained and set apart by the barbes
for the work of the ministry were named by the synod for their special sphere of labour. The
work of preparation for the ministry involved the learning by heart of the first and fourth
gospels, the whole of the canonical epistles, and a large portion of the Old Testament. The
missionaries to foreign churches generally remained abroad for two years. Although this work
was one of danger, no reluctance to undertake it was evinced. This shows the power of the gospel
in their hearts, as well as the deference shown by the younger pastors to their seniors in
the ministry of the Word and sacraments. As a rule it would seem that the synod despatched
their missionaries two and two. Thus, following the example of the great Head of the Church,
and providing for the necessities of the times, one of the two was selected as more or less
acquainted with the character of the places and persons they were about to visit.

The mode in which the Waldensian missionaries laboured illustrated at times the wisdom of the
serpent as well as the harmlessness of the dove; e.g., they obtained access to the higher classes
in the character of pedlars. Having displayed their goods, chiefly of an ornamental kind, and
a purchase had been concluded, if the pedlar were asked, "Have you anything else for sale?"
he would reply, "I have jewels far more precious than these, and if you will not betray me
to the clergy I will make you a present of them." Being answered satisfactorily on this point,
he would proceed to say, "I have a pearl so brilliant that by means of it one may learn to
know God; I have another so splendid that it kindles the love of God in the heart of him who
possesses it." And then he would proceed to quote various portions of Scripture.

But another mode of spreading the gospel in distant parts was by colonizing. This measure was
forced upon the Waldenses by the cruelties to which they were exposed in the South of France.
Their earliest colonies (A.D. 1340) were at Apulia and Calabria, and in Liguria. The lords
of the soil in Southern Italy permitted them to settle on favourable terms. They built several
towns, such as Oltromontani, grew in temporal prosperity, and lived in peace for many years.
As regards ecclesiastical matters, they maintained direct communion with their brethren in
the valleys, who supplied them with pastors. These pastors, in their journeys backwards and
forwards, visited their faithful brethren scattered throughout Italy. The barbes, indeed, possessed
a house in each of the cities of Florence, Genoa, and Venice. As regards numbers, it is not
unlikely that the Waldenses in Italy, France, and Germany at this time (the close of the fourteenth
century) were about eight hundred thousand. Venice alone contained six thousand Vaudois, it
is said, at this time. But this state of external peacefulness continued only for a time. The
very superiority of the Vaudois to their neighbours attracted attention to their religious
peculiarities. The Romish clergy complained "that they did not live like other people in matters
of religion; that they made none of their children priests or nuns; that they did not concern
themselves about chants, wax tapers, lights, bells, or even masses for the dead; that they
had no images in their temples," &c. All this criticism was intensified by the news of that
great reformation of the sixteenth century, which awakened alike the fears and the rage of
Rome, and sent forth her legionaries everywhere like blood-hounds keenly on the scent for the
tracks of heresy.

They were not long before they met with the evidences of a purer faith than that of the pope's
in the sunny regions south of the Tiber. The Waldenses in Calabria had heard of the revived
faith and growing zeal of their brethren in Piedmont. They determined, like them, to lay aside
all concealment of their religious profession, and openly to proclaim their heart-deep convictions
as to the vital principles of the gospel of Christ. As a means of a higher and truer confession
of Christ, they sought a colleague for their pastor, Etienne Négrin (who was from the valleys),
from Geneva. A young Piedmontese, Jean Louis Pascal, was just then finishing his studies at
Lausanne. Brought up as a papist and a soldier, he renounced his former creed and profession
for that of the gospel of Christ. Nor was it without cost of another kind he undertook the
perilous work of the ministry in Calabria. He was engaged in marriage to Camilla Guerina, and
in setting out for Italy (though unconsciously to themselves, perhaps) they parted for ever
as regards this world.

His ministry was greatly blessed in Calabria. The light so often placed under a bushel was
elevated conspicuously by the candlestick of his labours. But while believers rejoiced, superstitious
bigots raved. The Marquis Spinello, chief proprietor in the Vaudois colony, alarmed for his
credit with the clergy, and contrary to his former kindness, sends for the principal offenders,
including the pastor and his friend, Marco Uscegli. The two latter were cast into prison, and
the former dismissed with threatenings. This happened about 1558 or 1559, and was followed
by more determined measures of the bishop of the diocese and the pope. The latter deputed Cardinal
Alexandrin, inquisitor general, to extirpate heresy in the kingdom of Naples. All attempts
failing to induce attendance at mass, they were pursued by soldiers, and obliged to make an
armed resistance, which led to the flight of their assailants. After a few days the Vaudois,
who had fled to the woods, were hunted by dogs. Nearly all were captured or killed on the spot.
Those captured were tortured in the most horrible way to extort confessions of misdeeds which
their enemies had fabricated. One Bernard Conte, who had thrown away a crucifix forced into
his hands, was daubed with pitch, and then set on fire. Their sufferings are too many and revolting
to recount. Let it suffice to add that the bodies of the victims were so numerous as to line
the roads for a distance of thirty-six miles, being placed on stakes for that purpose from
Montalto to Chateau-Vilar. The pastor, Etienne Négrin, was either tortured or starved to death.
But Pascal was reserved for a more public immolation. On the 9th of September, 1560, an immense
crowd assembled in the courtyard of the castle of St. Angelo. A scaffold had been erected close
by with a pile of faggots. A stage with seats furnished suitably for the use of the pope, Pius
IV., his cardinals, and ecclesiastics of all ranks, was placed near. When the martyr reached
the scaffold he declared to the people that he was put to death for no crime but that of confessing
with boldness his Master and Saviour Jesus Christ. "As to those who hold the pope to be God
upon earth and vicar of Jesus Christ," he said, "they are strangely mistaken, seeing that in
everything he shows himself to be a mortal enemy of Christ's doctrine and service." He was
then put to death, but not before he had "made the pope and his cardinals gnash their teeth."
In this way the Waldenses were driven out of Calabria, at a time, let it be remembered, when
in the gracious providence of God the Reformation was being firmly established in England.

We pass on then to consider what was the condition of the Vaudois in their own valleys after
the termination of their sufferings narrated in the fifth chapter. We have glanced at the revival
of true religion in the valleys and Vaudois colonies. Suffice it, then, to add that the sympathy
shown by Farel (present at the Synod of Angrogna, 1532), Ecomlapadius, Bucer, and others, all
served to encourage the reviving zeal of that church which had so long held aloft the standard
of God's truth, though at times it may be somewhat weary with the strife and burden involved
in that high distinction of witnessing for Christ in a world that either forgot or denied Him.
One of the signs of the earnestness which characterized the Vaudois Church at this time was
the translation of the Holy Scriptures into French (for the benefit of the reformed churches)
out of the Romaunce dialect, in which the Vaudois had possessed the word of God from time immemorial.
A further proof of piety was shown in the erection of buildings for public worship, A.D. 1535.
The first temple was at St. Lorenzo, near Chamforans, the site of the Angrogna Synod; and a
second was built at Serre, in the same valley. This latter temple was standing at the time
of our visit, though needing repair. It would seem that the evangelical spirit was so decided
at this period that the few priests who continued hovering about the valleys in the hope of
effecting perversions retired in despair. The process of church building went on, so that in
1556 several temples existed in the Val Lucerna and San Martino. But such a state of things
was not permitted to continue without fresh opposition. In the year 1556 the Pope and Henry
II. of France give orders to the parliament of Turin to repress these heretical movements.
They send out two of their body, who visit the valley of San Martino, and publish an edict
threatening all who refuse obedience to its commands. They summoned before them a labourer,
and asked him why he had taken his child for baptism to the temple at Angrogna? He replied,
"Because baptism was there administered according to the institution of Jesus Christ." The
same man, on being commanded to have his child re-baptized, asked for permission to pray before
he gave his answer. Having done this, he asked the magistrate to give him a paper assuming
the responsibility and the sin of the transaction. This demand so embarrassed his persecutor
that he was discharged without further molestation. A noble representative, however, of the
class of pedlars of which we have spoken before did not so easily escape his persecutors. This
devoted Christian, Barthélemi Hector, of Poictiers, visited from place to place with copies
of the word of God, which he read to the people at their work, and sold to those who could
buy. On this errand of mercy he betook himself to the slopes of that mountain (La Vachere)
which overlook the Pra del Tor. The eagle of the Romish inquisitors tracked him on his rounds,
and carried him to Turin that he might answer for so foul a crime! His judges addressed him
in the following strain: "You have been surprised in the act of selling heretical books." He
responded with the courage of one who knew in whom he believed. "If the Bible contains heresies
for you, it is truth for me!" But, replied the judges, "You use the Bible to keep men from
going to mass." "If the Bible keeps men from the mass it proves that God condemns it as idolatry,"
he replied; and when further called upon to retract, he asked, with holy dignity, "Can I change
truth as if it were a garment?" Such courage and skill in defending his position impressed
his judges, and they hoped, by long delay and promises of pardon, to shake his firmness. But
he was upheld by the grace so richly vouchsafed, and he died exclaiming, "Glory to God that
He judges me worthy of death for Him." This martyrdom was followed, about two years later,
by two other remarkable cases. The first was a young student educated by the republic of Berne,
named Nicolas Sartoire. He was returning for a few weeks' holiday to his native land, and had
scarcely crossed the frontier of Piedmont when, resisting all temptations to deny his faith,
he was burnt at Aosta, on the 4th of May, 1557.

The second, Geoffrey Varaille, was a man of fifty, the son of one of those who had taken part
in the persecution of 1488.

While following his duties as a monk, he was convinced of the errors of popery, and after a
period of study received ordination, and became pastor of San Giovanni in 1557. He was waylaid
while on a visit to Busca, his native place, and carried to Turin, where he made a noble confession
of his faith amidst the flames on the 29th of March, 1558. Other victims would have been sacrificed
had not the Protestant princes of Germany and the evangelical cantons of Switzerland intervened,
and so for a little longer the church in the valleys had a measure of rest prior to the outburst
of another fierce attack.

                        CHAPTER VII.

The death of Mary Queen of England put out the fires of persecution in our own beloved land;
but, alas! served to rekindle them in the devoted valleys of the Alps. By the treaty of Cambresis,
1559, the kings of France and Spain bound themselves anew to the extirpation of heresy. Moreover,
they agreed that the conquests made by each country during the preceding eight years should
be restored. Thus all the gains of Francis I. and Henry II. of France were given up, and Philibert
Emmanuel of Savoy was transposed by a scratch of the pen from the condition of a landless mercenary
into that of a sovereign prince. Would that he had been free to rule as his own disposition
and that of his evangelical consort, Margaret of Navarre, would have prompted! But the provisions
of the treaty bound him to persecute rather than protect his loyal subjects in the valleys.
Too soon the evidences of this appeared. First came edicts forbidding any one to attend non-Catholic
preaching. Then commands to hear mass. After that were kindled the fires in which many bravely
endured the worst rather than abjure the faith. These proceedings were, however, preliminary
to an attack on the valleys. So the Vaudois betake themselves to united prayer for guidance.
After deliberation it was resolved to address the duke, the duchess, and the council of the
state. In these addresses they set forth the antiquity of their religion, the conformity of
their belief with the creeds and four first councils of the church, and the writings of the
early fathers, and vindicate themselves from the calumnies of their enemies, also protesting
their loyalty to their prince. After much difficulty these documents reached the parties addressed,
but owing to the interference of the pope nothing satisfactory was gained. The monks of Pinerolo
signalized themselves by the ardour with which they harassed the Vaudois. They employed large
numbers of vile characters as mercenaries to make incursions into the valleys. On one occasion
they secured possession of a pastor by treachery. Having alarmed his parishioners, they attempted
his rescue. Some of these were slain at once by the ruffians from the abbey, others were captured,
and by a refinement of cruelty (such as the Church of Rome surpasses all her competitors in)
were made, especially the women, to carry the faggots for the fire which was to burn their
beloved minister. Occasionally these frocked and sandalled ruffians met with deserved retribution
at the hands of those whose homes they desolated. But these things were but the distant rumbling
of the tempest, which ere long would burst upon the faithful Christians of the Alps. Their
leaders foresaw what was coming, and before the army of persecution actually invaded their
soil, they strengthened themselves by praise and prayer, by the word of God, and the ordinance
of the Lord's Supper.

Thus "strengthening each other's hand in God," they waited the progress of the soldiers. These
numbered over four thousand, commanded by the Count de la Trinité. Twelve hundred of them first
attacked the heights of Angrogna, and although the defenders numbered but one in six of their
assailants, yet they are repulsed with a loss of sixty dead, while the Vaudois only lost three.
Other attacks were equally unsuccessful, and so La Trinité persuades the Angrognians to a truce
by which they are powerless to resist, although he still continues his own plans of devastation,
plunder, and confiscation. Those cruelties drive the people of La Torre to caves and rocks,
although it is winter. An instance of cruelty may be narrated in the case of a man aged a hundred
and three, who was found by the soldiers hidden in a cave under the guardianship of his granddaughter,
a maiden of seventeen. After taking the life of the venerable man, they seek to dishonour the
girl, who, preferring death, leaped over the precipice into the stream below. As she did so,
tradition says she sang one of their hymns, and that its melody even now floats in the air
of those mountain regions, and is heard by the shepherd as he pastures his flock on the slopes
of the Vandalin by "the Maiden's Rock." La Trinité continued his persecutions during a period
of fifteen months. The Vaudois organized themselves successfully, and were favoured with remarkable
deliverances, which we shall refer to more appropriately in a later chapter, as they were chiefly
connected with the Pra del Tor. We may, however, state here that some of the most decisive
triumphs against the enemy were obtained by means of a troop of one hundred picked marksmen,
called "the flying company," because their services were available in all places according
to the varying emergencies of their situation. A treaty of peace so nearly approximating to
justice as to be denounced by the pope as "a pernicious example," and by a "liberal" Roman
Catholic historian[D] as "a blameable weakness," was concluded at Cavour on the 5th of June,
1561, and honourably fulfilled by Philibert Emmanuel to the end of his days, although the Vaudois
were still to bear the cross of their Master. The first hardship coming upon them was that
of hunger, thirst, and homelessness. Their joy at the departure of the men of war was sadly
diminished by the sight of their ruined homes and devastated vineyards and fields. Alas! for
them no fig tree could bloom, no vine yield its fruit. The flock had been cut off from the
fold, and the herd driven from the stall. The fields could yield no meat, and the time for
sowing was past. To add to those disasters, their poor brethren, flying from Calabria naked
and destitute, were seeking shelter and nourishment at their hands. Mercifully, however, sympathizing
hearts in Germany and Switzerland, nobly led by the Elector Palatine, the Duke of Wurtemburg,
the Marquis of Baden, the energy of Calvin, and seconded by the churches of Strasbourg and
Provence, supplied their great distress.

Persecution was renewed by indirect means. Castrocaro, forgetful of the kindness showed him
during the late war, when he was taken prisoner by the Vaudois while fighting against them,
undertook the task of harassing the valleys. He occupied the castle at La Torre. He ill-treated
many of the pastors, especially Gilles. He built the fort at Miraboc, tried to prevent the
meetings of the synods, &c. Large numbers had again to choose between the idolatrous mass or
the dungeon unless they betook themselves to flight.

It was at this time that the Elector Palatine wrote a remonstrance which deserves to be perpetuated
out of regard both to its own merits and those of the noble writer. Addressing the Duke of
Savoy, he said, "Let your highness know that there is a God in heaven ... from whom nothing
is hid. Let your highness take care not voluntarily to make war upon God, and not to persecute
Christ in the person of His members; for if He permit this for a time in order to exercise
the patience of His people, He will nevertheless at last chastise the persecutors by horrible
punishments. Let not your highness be misled by the seducing discourses of the papists, who,
perhaps, will promise you the kingdom of heaven and eternal life, provided ... you exterminate
these Huguenots, as they now call good Christians; for assuredly no one can enter the kingdom
of heaven by cruelty, inhumanity, and calumny." He also points to the folly of persecution
by reminding him that "the ashes of the martyrs are the seed of the Church;" and further, "that
the Christian religion was established by persuasion and not by violence, ... that it is nothing
else than a firm and enlightened persuasion of God, and of His will, as revealed in His Word
and engraven in the hearts of believers by the Holy Spirit; it cannot when once rooted be torn
away by tortures," &c.

It is probable that the effect of so plain and forcible a remonstrance helped to protect the
Vaudois of Piedmont from the horrible cruelties which befell their brethren in France during
the infamous massacre of St. Bartholomew. On the 19th of October, 1574, died the good Duchess
of Savoy, Margaret of France, who had been the courageous and faithful friend of her husband's
Protestant subjects. Shortly after her death Castrocaro, like another zealous persecutor of
the Waldenses under La Trinité, Charles Truchet, perished ignominiously; the former by his
own sword, taken from him by his adversaries; the latter in prison, deserted by those whose
willing tool he had been in deeds of blood! Philibert Emmanuel was succeeded by his son Charles
Emmanuel in 1580. An invasion of the French in 1592 was attempted as the means of prejudicing
the new king against his faithful subjects in the valleys, but happily in vain, and he assured
them of his gracious disposition in an interview at Villaro. However, the Waldenses were annoyed
by the visits of popish missionaries, headed by the Archbishop of Turin. Unable to succeed
in open discussions, the monks had recourse to bribing persons of bad character. They also
laid claim to tithes, closed the schools, and pursued other forms of oppression. In 1624 they
were commanded to destroy the temples in their six communes. And during these years the inquisition
ever and anon laid hold of some fresh victim for the dungeon and the stake. A merchant of La
Torre, named Coupin, Sebastian Basan, and Louis Malherbe, were added to the noble army of Vaudois
martyrs, besides scores who languished and died by secret violence between the years 1601-1626.

The monks renewed their old game of kidnapping the children of the Vaudois. An effort was made
to establish convents all through the valleys by Rorenco, prior of Lucerna. The only place
they could succeed in was that of La Torre, where evangelical worship was forbidden. After
the invasion of the French came the terrible plague in 1630. A brief interval of peace and
hope beamed upon the valleys with its smile; but, alas! it was but brief. The restlessness
of papal hostility soon awoke to new deeds of cruelty.

Two monks, in the month of May, 1636, appeared in the market-place at La Torre with crucifix
in hand, and by their abusive language tried to exasperate the people. And even the noble fidelity
of the Vaudois to their young prince, Amadeus II. (only five years of age), at the death of
his father, against the attempt of his two uncles, supported by Spain, nor the sufferings they
endured at this time from the armies of the uncles, nor the patriotic successes they achieved,
seem to have obtained for them anything beyond the most temporary respite. Their temples were
again closed. Antonie Leger, pastor of San Giovanni, was obliged to flee for his life. He settled
in Geneva as professor of theology and Oriental languages, having lived in the service of the
Dutch ambassador at Constantinople many years. And, indeed, things were being put in train
for that most furious, perhaps, of all the tempests which the irrepressible pride and cruelty
of Rome made to lash its strong rage upon the heads and homes of those whose only fault was--

    "They would not leave that precious faith
    For Rome's religion, false, impure;
    No! no! they rather would endure
    To lose their all, yea, even death."

FOOTNOTES:

[D] BOTTA, vol. ii. Storia d'Italia.

                        CHAPTER VIII.

The event to which allusion is made in the close of the foregoing chapter recalls my thoughts
and observation, as I stood in the streets of La Torre on what was, as regards the ecclesiastical
season, the very anniversary period of that frightful tragedy perpetrated some 214 years before,
and remembered still as the "Bloody Pascha." The coincidence seemed to bring home the remembrance
of the awful event with a more realizing emphasis. And it was in this train of thought that
I cast my eyes upward to the overhanging crag of Castelluzzo. The murderous designs of the
edict proclaimed by Gastaldo on the 25th January, 1655; viz., "That all and every one of the
heads of families of the pretended reformed religion, of whatever rank or condition, without
any exception, both proprietors and inhabitants of the territories of Lucerna, Lucernetta,
San Giovanni, La Torre, Bibbiana, Fenile, Campiglione, Bricheariso, and San Secondo, should
remove from the aforesaid places within three days to the places allowed by his highness, the
names of which places are Bobbio, Villaro, Angrogna, and Rora. Persons contravening the above
will incur the penalty of death and confiscation of all their goods, unless within twenty days
they declare themselves before us (Gastaldo) to have become Catholics," received its fulfilment
by a signal given from this spot on the 24th of April, 1655. The Vaudois had made every submission
short of going to mass; but all was in vain, as their extirpation had been determined on by
a branch of the inquisition established at Turin in the year 1650. This council was presided
over by the Archbishop of Turin, as regards one committee. The Marchioness Pianezza filled
the same office over another whose members were ladies! She seems to have breathed the same
spirit of ferocity and cunning as that which characterized the conduct of her husband, who
commanded the fifteen thousand troops whose gentle entreaties were to win the Vaudois to the
orthodoxy of Rome! This army fitly included three regiments of French soldiers, red-handed
from the slaughter of the Huguenots; twelve hundred Irish, exiled for their crimes in Ulster;
and a number of Piedmontese bandits, attracted by the love of plunder and the promised benedictions
of the Church in return for their meritorious labours in extirpating heretics. Two monks led
this band of miscreants. One of them, seated on a waggon, brandishing a flaming torch in his
left hand and a sword in his right, exhorted the troops to burn and slay. His companion, an
aged friar, carried a crucifix before him, exclaiming, "Whoever is a son of the holy church
does not pardon heretics; they are the murderers of Christ!" The soldiers, inflamed by these
appeals to their fanaticism, went forward with the cry, "Viva la S. Chiesa." They found La
Torre deserted; for the people had betaken themselves to the mountains, from whence they could
descry the soldiers pillaging their homes. However, they knew that their enemies would not
be satisfied with anything less than their lives, and these they resolved to sell as dearly
as possible. Pianezza's troops attacked them on the 19th and 20th of April; but the Vaudois
on each occasion drove back their assailants with great loss. It was the bravery of the Vaudois
at this time that led the Duke of Savoy to say that the skin of a Vaudois cost fifteen or twenty
of his best Catholics. Indeed, during this siege fifty of the Piedmontese soldiers were slain
by the Vaudois, with only a loss of two by the defenders. The perfidious marquis then resolved
to seek by fraud what he was unable to obtain by force.

He invited the deputies--among whom were Leger, the historian and pastor; also the brave Joshua
Janavello--to meet him at the convent of La Torre early on Wednesday morning. He represented
that he was only in pursuit of those obstinate persons who had resisted the orders of Gastaldo;
that the others had nothing to fear, provided they would consent to receive a regiment of infantry
and two companies of horse soldiers, as a mark of obedience and fidelity to their prince, for
two or three days. He then entertained them sumptuously, and sent them back to their communes
to persuade their brethren of his sincerity and kindness. Leger and Janavello saw through the
trick, but, alas! the others fell into the snare. Accordingly the Vaudois consented to receive
the soldiers into their houses and to entertain them as friends. They allowed them to occupy
their hiding-places and strongholds, from whence no fair fight had ever driven them. The very
eagerness of the soldiers to penetrate into these recesses, and their brutality on their way
to the Pra del Tor, opened the eyes of the Vaudois to their miserable condition. It is remarkable
that the deputies from Angrogna were the readiest to believe in Pianezza's promises, and also
the first to fall victims to his murderous soldiery. On Thursday and Friday Pianezza was occupied
with three things--first, in keeping those of the Vaudois on the French frontier from escaping
to that country; secondly, in persuading the inhabitants of the valleys of his "good intentions;"
and thirdly, resting his soldiers in readiness for the day of slaughter. On Good Friday the
Vaudois observed the day according to the usage of their church, by fasting and humiliation.
They could not meet in their churches; but in their caverns and mountain dells they cried to
the Lord for deliverance from their great distress, and for strength to remain faithful under
persecution. The Lord heard their cry; but the church of the valleys was destined to pass through
such a sea of suffering, inflicted in the name of the holy Catholic church, as would have made
many a pagan persecutor blush with shame. At four o'clock in the morning of Easter-eve, on
a signal given from the top of Castelluzzo, Pianezza's troops rose to slaughter the persons
under whose roofs they had slept, and of whose food they had partaken the night before. Surely
a religion which thus degrades men into monsters should have few apologists in our day. The
mind recoils from the enumeration of the horrors of that "bloody Easter." Human depravity,
goaded on by every motive which spiritual wickedness could suggest, celebrated such a carnival
as must have staggered even a Nero. Men, women, and children were torn limb from limb, after
suffering every possible outrage and indecency. Some were rolled from their native rocks to
afford merriment to their butchers. Others were impaled on the trees by the wayside. Neither
age nor sex hindered this work of brutality; and it is even said that not only did the wretches
burn the living bodies of their victims, but also regaled themselves with their flesh, yea,
in the presence of their suffering fellows! When these pious soldiers of holy church could
no longer slay the Vaudois they burnt their houses and farm buildings, and destroyed their
vineyards, with the fruit-trees and other products of the soil.

Nor was Pianezza content with these horrible proceedings at La Torre and its immediate vicinity.
On the evening of the same day, Saturday, April 24th, Rora was attacked by five hundred men,
the day after by a larger body, the next day by more soldiers still--all in vain. A fourth
attack, like the others, was successfully repelled by their noble captain, Janavello, who,
with a very small body of helpers, inflicted terrible loss upon the troops, even causing the
death of their leader, Mario. These continuous defeats so enraged Pianezza, that he sent them
a message to attend mass within twenty-four hours on pain of death. They replied, "We prefer
death to the mass a hundred thousand times." On this he assembled a force of ten thousand to
attack their village. Janavello fought like a lion, but was overpowered by numbers. His wife
and three daughters, with some others, were taken captive. One hundred and twenty-six persons
were put to death, and the scenes of the former week were renewed in all their horrible atrocity.
The news of this frightful massacre sent a thrill of horror through all that portion of Europe
whose sensibilities had not been drugged by the poisonous teaching of the Church of Rome, viz.,
that heretics are malefactors, and as such may be lawfully exterminated like wild beasts. The
representatives of England, Holland, and Switzerland protested against these doings. Cromwell
set an example to all rulers, whether kings or presidents. His envoy, Sir Samuel Morland, read
a despatch in the presence of Carlo, Emmanuel II., Duke of Savoy, and of his mother, who, under
the instigation of the Romish priests, had caused the massacre, which contained the following
passage:--"If all the tyrants of all times and ages were alive again, certainly they would
be ashamed when they should find that they had contrived nothing in comparison with these things
that might be reputed barbarous and inhuman."

The result of these circumstances was the delusive treaty of Pinerolo, agreed to in the month
of August, 1655. This treaty was hurried on in spite of the request of the plenipotentiaries
from England and Holland for a delay, in order that they might secure better terms for the
inhabitants of the valleys. While freedom of worship was promised, it was restricted by many
irksome conditions; e.g., preaching was forbidden in the commune of S. Giovanni and the town
of La Torre, and, moreover, the castle of the latter place was rebuilt and garrisoned, a grievance
which the Vaudois had especially protested against. The grievances which grew out of the treaty
of Pinerolo, and the events which preceded that ill-conditioned arrangement in the interval
between the week of massacre and the date of its signature, are so closely connected with the
exploits and history of Janavello, that I feel it better to let my account of La Torre rest
here, and proceed to narrate my visit to Rora, the residence of that patriotic soldier and
pious chieftain.

                         CHAPTER IX.

                     RORA AND JANAVELLO.

In order to reach this spot, my companion and I left the town of La Torre by a street bounded
on one side by Trinity College. We then crossed the Pelice by a somewhat rustic bridge, and
found ourselves very quickly immersed in woods on the mountain side with numberless bye-paths.
These paths were very circuitous, and we had occasion often to ask our way from some friendly
woodman or inhabitant of a wayside chalêt. Every now and then we came to a kind of table-land,
where we could indulge in a panoramic survey. The steepness of the ascent, and the occasional
ruggedness of our path, served to intensify our realization of the interest of the locality,
as the scene of so many heroic deeds by Janavello and his little but brave band of patriots
against the assailants of their hearths, faith, and homes. About an hour and a half from the
time we had left La Torre we came to the Plas Janavel, which constitutes a magnificent amphitheatre,
planted with vines, and corn, and chestnut trees. From this locality we bore away in a south-westerly
direction, over a rocky eminence crowned with wood, and descended through gardens and orchards
to a kind of ravine or narrow valley, on the sloping side of which stands Janavello's house.
We found an old, but obliging, Roman Catholic in possession of the premises, once so bravely
defended by their patriotic owner. However, overwhelmed by numbers, he was compelled to retreat
after performing prodigies of valour, his sister, with babe at her breast, being shot by his
side. We were shown the entrance to the subterranean outlet by which Janavello made his escape.
The initials G. G., with the date of the year, we also read, cut in the stone above.

So soon, however, as Janavello had placed his little son, only eight years of age, in the care
of friends in Dauphiny, he returned to his native valleys, and became the David of his people
against the bands of Philistines who were yet in the land. The skill and bravery already displayed
by Janavello in so successfully resisting the troops of Pianezza, led the latter at first to
attempt to win over the patriot warrior by offering him a pardon for himself and the safe return
of his wife and three daughters (who had been captured at Rora) if he would renounce his "heresy,"
but threatening him if he refused with the severest treatment. To this Janavello nobly replied,
"That there were no torments so cruel, nor death so barbarous, which he would not prefer to
abjuration; that if the marquis made his wife and daughters to pass through the fire, the flames
could only consume their bodies; that as for their souls, he commended them to God, trusting
them in His hands equally with his own, in case it should please Him to permit his falling
into the hands of the executioners."

Janavello's troop, led by himself and his lieutenant, Jahier, had many successful contests
with the enemy during the months of May, June, and July. They captured the town of Secondo,
occupied by their enemies, and while putting to death large numbers of the Irish soldiers who
had been guilty of such enormities, they yet spared the sick, aged, and children, unlike the
treatment accorded to themselves. One of their chief services, however, was to keep in check
the garrison which had been placed in the fort at La Torre. A splendid victory on the heights
of Angrogna was sadly clouded by a wound received by Janavello. For a time it was thought to
be mortal. However, Janavello, being removed to a distance, gradually recovered; but a yet
worse thing happened later in the day. Jahier, to whom the command had been entrusted by Janavello,
with the request to cease the conflict for that evening, was induced by a traitor to disregard
that instruction, and fell, with fifty of his men, into an ambush of the enemy. Jahier, his
son, and all his companions but one, fell, covered with wounds, and fighting with the courage
of heroes. Leger speaks of Jahier as a perfect captain, had it not have been for his imprudent
boldness.

However, Janavello mercifully recovered from his wound, and when the Vaudois, wearied beyond
endurance by the cruelties inflicted upon them by the successive governors of that fort at
La Torre which had been most unjustly restored in 1655 after its destruction by the French
in 1593, could no longer submit, the hero of Rora (notwithstanding a price was set upon his
head) assembled some two or three hundred patriots to resist the plundering bands of De Bagnol
and Paolo de Berges. Such was the terror caused by these wretches that the people of Giovanni,
La Torre, Rora, and Lucerna, fled to the mountains on the French territory. Then, as if disappointed
of his prey, De Bagnol issued an edict commanding them within three days to return and present
themselves at the fort. No exception was to be allowed for age, sex, or condition. The majority
were wise enough to disobey this order, but some, thinking they might be allowed to cultivate
their lands again, ventured to return, but, alas! they had occasion to bitterly lament the
result. Whilst the commandant of the fortress of La Torre ordered the fugitives to return,
Janavello exerted his influence to keep them back. Before the final date, June 25th, 1662,
had arrived, an army, commanded by the Marquises of Fleury and Angrogna, appeared at the entrance
of the Val Pelice, so that the Vaudois could no longer doubt the intentions of their enemies.
But at this stage happened one of those remarkable displays of loyalty to their prince on the
part of the Vaudois which was only equalled by their fidelity to God. The troops of the duke
were prevented by the armed population of the valleys from crossing the end so as to reach
the fort of Mirabouc beyond Bobbio, which was then destitute of provisions, and which it was
desired to reinforce. Under these circumstances the commanders of the Piedmontese troops requested
the chief persons of the commune to give a proof of submission and good-will to their sovereign
by escorting a convoy which was on its way to the fortress. They were assured that if they
would do this that peace would be promptly restored. The devoted Vaudois, more willing to risk
their own safety than appear to distrust their prince, complied with this request; yea, even
more than once, though a war of extermination was being urged against them; for their enemies,
unable to discover any marks of merit in those they stigmatized as heretics, were seeking to
occupy the heights of La Vachere and obtain possession of their citadel, the Pra del Torre.
On the 6th of July, 1663, the enemy ascended the mountains from four different points. The
two first divisions, numbering four thousand men, were fortifying themselves on the hill of
Plans before attempting to force through the narrow pass called the gate of Angrogna, occupied
by a detachment of Vaudois placed there by Janavello. In the meantime the two other divisions
of the enemy's force, approaching from the side of Giovanni and La Torre, repulsed the six
or seven hundred mountaineers who had been hastily gathered at that point; but when they reached
the rocks and ruins of Roccamanetto, the scene of many a victory won by the patriot bands,
and which, said Janavello on this occasion, is "our Tabor," the Vaudois stayed the course of
their assailants and finally compelled them to retreat with considerable slaughter. Janavello
then gave thanks to God, and after leaving a guard led his troops down the valley, exclaiming,
"Let us sweep these cowards from the hills!"

After a determined charge in flank, and the renewed efforts of the Vaudois already posted at
the gate of Angrogna, the Piedmontese fled, leaving behind them over six hundred dead, besides
many wounded. As the results of these discomfitures, a new general was appointed for the Piedmontese
troops, Count Damian; and although other successes followed the arms of the patriots, yet they
suffered a reverse at St. Germano, and frightful cruelties were perpetrated by their enemies;
e.g., at Roccapiatta they burnt to death a woman nearly one hundred years of age, and bedridden.
At St. Germano a young woman is treated with every possible indecency, and then left to die,
after having her flesh cut from her bones. Other atrocities also were wrought upon persons
falling into the hands of the soldiers, which it is impossible to recite. The Duke of Savoy
now began to feel disappointed at the results of this persecution of his subjects; and the
deputies of the Swiss cantons tried to obtain honourable conditions for the Vaudois. Therefore
a kind of amnesty was published Feb. 14th, 1664, which, although professing to confirm the
articles of the treaty of Pinerolo, really abridged many of the privileges formerly enjoyed
by the Vaudois. It also imposed a fine of two million francs. Janavello was refused any share
in the benefits of this treaty, and consequently retired to Geneva, where his valuable counsel
stood Arnaud in good stead at a later period. In the war between Charles Emmanuel of Savoy
and the Genoese, in 1672, the Vaudois rendered such cheerful and valuable help that their sovereign
was constrained to make a public acknowledgment of their services. A brighter day now seemed
dawning upon these faithful valley men. To be the object of their ruler's confidence and affection
was a pleasure as sweet to their taste as rare in their experience. But, alas! this pleasant
change is but a break in the dark clouds which have so long overshadowed their troubled life,
and but the precursor of a storm of bitterness and cruelty unsurpassed even in their annals
of woe and sadness. Charles Emmanuel died on the 3rd of June, 1678. For a few years, under
the regency of his widow and the reign of his son, Victor Amadeus VII., there was peace. But
just at the time when their services against the banditti of Mondovi might seem to have added
to their claims and expectation, new dangers appear.

It was in this wise. Louis XIV. of France thought to atone for the misdeeds of a life of sensuality
by the forced conversion of his subjects to popery, and so, after a series of preliminary brutalities,
to which he had been stimulated by his confessor and others, he revokes the edict of Nantes,
and gives to the prosperity of his country a blow from which it has never recovered. But the
grand monarque of France was not content to tread this royal road to heaven alone. He wished
his neighbour of Savoy to share in the benedictions of the pretended successor of St. Peter.
However, the young duke shrank from imitating such conduct, until he was politely reminded
by the French ambassador that his master would drive away the heretics with fourteen thousand
men, but that he would also retain their valleys for himself. In consequence of this Amadeus
engages to join with the king of France in shedding the blood of the saints. A painful foreboding
of suffering filled the minds of the Vaudois as soon as they heard of the revocation of the
edict of Nantes; but they were not prepared for the actual severity of the edict of January
30th, 1686, which forbade, under pain of death, all religious services except the Romish, and
ordered the destruction of their temples, the banishment of their ministers and schoolmasters,
and the baptism and education of their children henceforth in the false creed of Rome. This
was indeed the bitterest drop in their cup of overflowing grief. Staggered by the enormity
of the evil, they first of all sought the ear of their own prince. Disappointed, they began
to make preparations to defend themselves against the troops which were gathering on their
frontiers. On the 22nd of April the popish army began its march, the Piedmontese led by Gabriel
of Savoy, uncle of the duke, the French commanded by Catinat. The latter began operations in
the valley of Clusone. They attacked the Vaudois entrenchments at Pramol, but were so obstinately
resisted, although they outnumbered the defenders as six to one, that after ten hours' fighting
they fell back, followed by the Vaudois as far as the temple of St. Germain, when the night
closed the encounter; and on the next day they were protected by reinforcements from Pinerolo.
The five hundred Frenchmen killed and wounded on this occasion furnished the pretext for horrible
cruelties practised by that portion of the troops which were commanded by Catinat himself in
the defenceless valley of Martino.

In the meantime Gabriel of Savoy was attacking the valley of Angrogna. The Vaudois, although
weakened by divisions, and lacking such leaders as Janavello and Leger, yet fortified the heights
of La Vachere, and for a whole day successfully resisted their assailants. But, unfortunately,
they were induced to believe the promise made to them in a note signed by Gabriel of Savoy,
in the name of his nephew, that "if they laid down their arms they should not be injured, either
in their own persons or in those of their wives and children." This promise, and similar ones
made to other groups of the Vaudois at Pra del Torre, Permian, near Pramol, and other retired
spots in the neighbourhood of La Torre, were all shamefully disregarded. The people of Bobbio
were the last to give way, after a brave resistance, which they continued on the rocks of the
Vandalin. Frightful deeds of shame and cruelty now prevailed all through the valleys. Two examples
may suffice, although by no means the worst in some respects. A woman takes refuge in a cave,
with her little babe and a goat, which furnished the means of their subsistence. Unfortunately
the poor animal was heard to bleat by some of the soldiers who happened to be near. These wretches
seized the child and, in the presence of its mother, threw it over the precipice, and then
led the mother herself to a jutting crag that she might die there in the greatest agony. A
second case is that of the pastor of Guigot, near Prali. He had secreted himself under a rock,
and believing the enemy to be at a distance, was consoling himself by singing a psalm. For
this offence, after months of suffering in prison, he was condemned to death. He died with
the Saviour's words on his lips--"Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit." The cruelties
inflicted on the Vaudois at this time were even greater than those resulting from the massacres
of 1655; but, in addition to all that took place within the valleys themselves, there remain
the wrongs perpetrated upon those who were dragged from their loved, though desolated, homes.
Some fourteen thousand persons were distributed in thirteen or fourteen prison fortresses.
Husbands were separated from their wives, parents from their children, some two thousand children
being placed among papists for the purposes of perversion. These were chiefly sent to the district
of Vercelli, in Piedmont. And thus the church of Rome won a triumph even more complete than
her sanguinary labours in the low countries. She had now silenced the gospel in Italy. That
pure flame in the valleys of Piedmont no longer shone amidst the darkness. Those pious mountaineers
no longer sang their psalms by hill-side, nor offered the worship of a free heart in their
lowly dells. The pure morals of those shepherds and vine-dressers no longer rebuked the foul
licentiousness which flourished amid the benedictions of Santa Chiesa, provided heretics were
exterminated. That gospel which apostles taught, and Rome once received, was no longer heard
from the lips of pastors who disdain the polluting touch of hands more able to confer the gifts
of Simon Magus than those of Simon Peter.

But yet these children of a pure faith are not conquered. They leave their homes in the months
of November, December, and February. Hundreds perish by the way. How could it be otherwise?
At that season of the year, and after the treatment they had received in the dungeons in which
they had groaned, even strong men would have shrank from crossing the Alps, to say nothing
of the aged women and young children. Alas! O Rome, thy tender mercies are cruel! The Swiss
Protestants did nobly to soften the horrors of the treatment awarded to their suffering co-religionists.
They not only remonstrated at the Court of Turin, but provided clothing and food to assist
the sufferers; they kept a solemn fast-day; they made collections; they stationed themselves,
by the consent of the Piedmontese authorities (let it be said), at various places along the
route. So by the end of February, 1687, some two thousand six hundred Vaudois, men, women,
and children, were received within the hospitable walls of the city of Geneva. Afterwards their
numbers reached three thousand, and these were all that remained out of a population of about
sixteen thousand, dragged or driven from the valleys. Nine pastors had been imprisoned in the
citadel of Turin with their families, and although their liberation was earnestly asked for
by the Swiss commissioners, it does not appear that they were ever allowed to join their exiled
brethren in Switzerland. However, the Vaudois, though deeply touched with the kindness shown
them by their friends in Switzerland and Germany, yet sighed after their own dear valleys.
Although Janavello could not lend them active aid by his no longer stalwart arm and heroic
presence, yet he took a deep interest in the preparations for their return, and praised God
that He had provided them a captain. Who this captain was, and the nature of the deliverance
wrought by his instrumentality, must be left for another chapter.

                         CHAPTER X.

Henri Arnaud was born at Die, in Dauphiny, in 1641. He was educated for the Christian ministry,
but, owing to the troubles of the period, betook himself to a military life for a time. He
entered the service of William Prince of Orange, afterwards King William III. of England, who
was regarded at that time as the hereditary champion of Protestant interests in Europe, and
the determined opponent, as he afterwards proved, of the restless ambition and persecuting
tyranny of Louis XIV. of France. The Prince of Orange thought highly of the military talents
and the personal character of Henri Arnaud, and promoted him to the rank of captain in his
army. He seems, however, to have reverted to the intention of his early life, about the year
1684, inasmuch as we find him occupying the important post of pastor at La Torre during the
eventful year 1686, the year of the revocation of the edict of Nantes. Amadeus II., goaded
on by the threatenings and entreaties of the French king, renewed the persecution of his faithful
Vaudois, by the publication of a severe edict in January, and by the invasion of their territory
in the April following. The Vaudois defended themselves with such courage and success that,
after ten hours' fighting, the invaders were compelled to retreat as far as the temple at Germano.
The close of the day gave a respite to the enemy, and enabled them to obtain reinforcements
from Pinerolo. In this successful repulse of the French and Piedmontese troops, and which resulted
in the death or wounding of 500 Frenchmen, Henri Arnaud played a conspicuous part. But when
subsequently the Vaudois were ready to confide in the faithless but plausible proposals of
Gabriel of Savoy, Henri Arnaud refused to trust himself to the enemies of his country, and
as his warnings were disregarded he escaped to Switzerland. Here he was providentially preserved
and protected for a yet greater opportunity of service to the land and church of his adoption.
The promise of Gabriel of Savoy to the Vaudois, that if they laid down their arms they should
not be injured, either in their own persons or in those of their wives and children, was shamefully
disregarded; therefore, after terrible sufferings in the summer and autumn, several thousands
quit their much-loved valleys, and cross the Alps in the worst season of the year rather than
abjure the faith of their fathers. About two thousand six hundred of these exiles reach the
hospitable city of Geneva by the end of February, 1687. Later on some hundreds more were added
to their numbers. Beside Henry Arnaud, there was already at Geneva the heroic Janavello. Deeply
touched as were the exiles with the Christian sympathy shown to them by friends in Switzerland
and Germany, gratefully impressed as they were with the efforts making for their settlement
in these hospitable countries, yet their thoughts would often revert to their native valleys.
They not only sighed over the remembrance of the pastures where they had fed their flocks,
but they also groaned for the temples of God which had been broken down. For the voice of truth
which was now silenced in the land of martyrs and confessors, and simultaneously grew up the
hope and the desire of returning to the place which had been for so long the home of their
fathers. When Henri Arnaud found that this project had the approval of the veteran Janavello,
he repaired to Holland, to lay the design before the Prince of Orange, who warmly entered into
the design, and promised substantial assistance towards its realization. After two premature
attempts and many difficulties, Arnaud, who was residing at this time with his family at Neufchâtel,
made his arrangements so well that many hundreds of the Vaudois succeeded in assembling in
the forest of Prangins, near the little town of Nyon on the shore of the lake Leman.

Between nine and ten o'clock in the evening of the 16th of August, 1689, Arnaud gave the signal
for embarkation by falling on his knees by the side of the lake, and imploring in a loud voice
the almighty and all-gracious Being, who had been their helper in the past, to prosper their
attempt to regain their native valleys, and re-erect the standard of evangelical truth on their
own beloved fatherland. The patriot band set out in fifteen boats, and having landed, the first
detachment returned for those left behind. Only three of the boats, however, made the second
journey in safety, and so some were not brought from the Swiss side of the lake. When Arnaud
reviewed his forces he found there were some 900 men who had safely crossed the lake. A small
band indeed for so great an enterprise; a very inadequate force to contend with thousands of
disciplined troops, and to overcome the obstacles which would be raised by hostile populations
through whose territories they must pass; to encounter the fatigue of forced marches over craggy
precipices, along deep and dangerous defiles--in addition, to do all this with but slender
equipments of food and other necessaries. Still, no one draws back. They have counted the cost.
They deem the prize at which they aim worthy of the risk they run. They are sustained by the
recollections of past deliverance. Nor did Arnaud neglect any suitable means of an ordinary
kind for ensuring success. He divided his 900 men into twenty companies, organized with reference
to their native communes; e.g., Angrogna had three companies, with their captains; San Giovanni
two, &c. They were arranged to march in regular military order, having a vanguard, centre,
and rear, observing the strictest discipline. Beside Arnaud, there were two other pastors with
the little army, Chyon of Pont à Royans, in Dauphiny, and Montoux of the Val Pragela. The first,
however, was soon lost to the expedition; for, having incautiously entered the first village
they reached in order to obtain a guide, he was taken prisoner, and detained at Chambéry until
the peace. As soon as the army was ready to march, the patriot band again sought the blessing
of the God of their fathers. They then set out in a southerly direction, passing through the
little town of Yvoire, and compelled Savoyard gentlemen and priests to accompany them as hostages
and guides. The alarm felt at first by the people through whose villages they passed subsided
when their orderly conduct became known, so that after a time the peasants, with their ministers,
were seen approaching and watching the troops as they filed off, and even crying after them,
"May God be with you!" In some cases refreshments were also supplied, and remuneration refused.
However, a different experience awaited them as they set out by a mountain path for Boëge,
a little town on the river Menoge, in the province of Faucigny. Here the gentry made a great
show of resistance, and although they made them prisoners, together with 200 armed peasants
under the command of a quartermaster, yet the circumstance convinced Arnaud that he must take
precautions, otherwise the expedition would be greatly hindered. Therefore one of the gentry
of Boëge was instructed to write a letter informing the people of the next town that they were
not to be alarmed at the approach of the Vaudois, but to give them a free passage, and supply
them with provisions, for which they always paid. So they passed on without very remarkable
events, except privations and exposure to wet and cold day by day, until, crossing the Arve,
they reached Sallenches, at the foot of the mighty monarch of European mountains, Mont Blanc.
The sight of the mountain seems to have severely tested the resolution of some of Arnaud's
followers, and it required all his skill and energy to inspire them with courage to make the
passage through the defile of the Bonhomme. Indeed, the descent of the column was more hazardous
than the ascent. To accomplish this in many cases they were compelled to assume a sitting posture,
and slide down the face of the rocks. On the evening of the fourth day the patriots reached
the town of Sey, on the Isère, and met with a good supply of provisions. On the evening of
the fifth day Arnaud and his colleague, Montoux, for the first time since they had started,
lodged, supped, and rested for three hours in peace. The next day they ascended Mont Iseran,
and resting at Maurienne in the evening, they ascended the Mont Cenis the day after, and seized
all the post-horses, to prevent the news of their arrival being so easily communicated. From
this point they branched off in the direction of the little Mont Cenis, as being a less frequented
road, and spent the night very uncomfortably in the woods.

On the eighth day they left the valley of Jaillon, and would have proceeded by way of Susa,
crossing the Dora Riparia, but having unsuccessfully attempted to dislodge a body of troops
and peasants who commanded a portion of that road, Arnaud decided on regaining the heights.
This they did, but not without much suffering and a loss of forty men, including two captains
and two surgeons. After this the Vaudois proceeded through the pass of Touille, to the west,
coming out by Oulx, still in the valley of the Dora, but several leagues distant from Susa,
and in the line now traversed by the masterpiece of modern engineering, viz., the Mont Cenis
Tunnel. Arnaud's design was to cross the river by the bridge of Salabertrand, between Oulx
and Exilles, but learning from a peasant, of whom they had asked for food, that an excellent
supper was preparing for them, they understood it was dangerous to remain. After taking refreshment,
therefore, Arnaud renewed the march, and discovered some thirty-six camp fires, and shortly
after the vanguard encountered the enemy's outposts.

As was the invariable custom, an interval of prayer preceded their further advance, made under
cover of the night. Approaching the bridge, they are asked, "Who's there?" and answer, "Friends;"
to which the enemy reply, "Kill! kill!" emphasized by a tremendous fire for a quarter of an
hour. Arnaud, however, saved his men by commanding them to lie on the ground at the first shot.
Still they were in great danger, for a portion of the enemy had got to the rear of the Vaudois,
and so they were exposed from both sides. Realizing their desperate position, a cry was raised--"Courage!
the bridge is won!" At those words Arnaud's men rushed headlong, sword in hand, and with bayonets
fixed forced the entrenchments of the enemy. Thus, by the favour of God, 800 men, unaccustomed
to war, and exhausted by fatigue, won a victory over a body numbering some 2,500 troops, exclusive
of those who had attacked them in the rear, and the peasants who assisted in the fray. The
defeated lost six hundred of their men, besides twelve captains and other officers; the victors,
only fifteen killed and twelve wounded. Their hostages, however, took advantage of the battle
and escaped, with the exception of six of the oldest. Apart from the successful repulse of
the troops intended to obstruct their journey, this splendid victory at the bridge of Salabertrand
gave to the conquerors military stores and other booty. Arnaud's men would have been glad to
have rested, but prudence bid them not to linger. So, having destroyed so much of the spoil
as they were unable to appropriate, they set forward. The explosion of the enemy's powder,
set on fire by the Vaudois, mingled with their own shouts of triumph and the notes of their
trumpets, as with exulting hearts they renewed their march, exclaiming, "Thanks be to the Lord
of hosts, who hath given us the victory over all our enemies." However great as was their joy,
so great had been their labours that twenty-four of their number were so overpowered by fatigue
that they fell asleep on their moonlight march through the valley of the Dora, and were captured
by the enemy, so that these twenty-four added to the forty previously lost in the passage of
the Jaillon, diminished the full measure of their satisfaction. Still they press forward, and
as the light of another day dawns upon them (the ninth of their journey and the Lord's Day)
they had climbed the summit of Mont Sci, and from it looked with beating hearts upon the peaks
of their own loved mountains. Indeed it was only the valley of Pragela (a district closely
associated with their own in faith and worship until his so-called Christian majesty banished
the profession of the gospel from its boundaries) that interposed between them and the object
of their march. On this Pisgah top Arnaud gathers his men around him, and beneath the roof
of heaven and amidst the walls of surrounding mountain slopes, glistening with the brightness
of the rising sun, pours out the psalm of glad thanksgiving, and offers the prayer of the contrite
heart.

On Tuesday, August 27th, 1689, the brave Vaudois, who had crossed the lake of Geneva only eleven
days before, now set foot in the first village of their own territory, viz., Balsille, at the
north-west extremity of the valley of San Martino. This was indeed a solemn moment, recalling
the successful labours of the past and suggesting the difficulties and anxieties of the future.
Arnaud would doubtless examine minutely into the condition and number of his men, and as he
did so painfully consider the losses he had sustained, reducing the patriot band to about seven
hundred men. This review is necessary in order to explain the otherwise sanguinary character
of the determination to refuse all quarter to the troops which attacked them in their endeavours
to regain possession of their native valleys. Hence the Vaudois put to death the guard on the
Alps of the Pis, and at Balsille; this was the greatest number they did so treat. From Balsille
Arnaud led his men into the valley of Prali, and subdivided his army into two divisions. On
reaching the hamlet of Guigot, they rejoiced to find their temple still standing, and purging
it of the superstitious ornaments introduced by the Papists, these seven hundred patriot warriors
laid down their arms and sang the 74th Psalm--

    "Hast Thou cast us off for ever?
      Will Thine anger no more cease?
    Shall Thy people never, never
      Dwell again, O Lord, in peace?
    Oh, behold the desolation!
      See Thy holy place defiled!
    Scattered is Thy congregation,
      And Thy sanctuary spoiled.

    "Rise, O Lord, in might victorious,
      Rise and give Thy people aid;
    Come, O come in triumph glorious,
      Overwhelm Thy foes dismayed.
    Circled with a thousand wonders,
      Girt with all Thy power and strength,
    Mid ten thousand thousand thunders
      Save, redeem Thy own, at length!"

They also sung the 129th Psalm, and then Arnaud, taking his text from some verses of the latter
psalm, spoke to them, and exhorted them to endure hardness as good soldiers of Jesus Christ.
The memories of the place as the scene of the martyrdom of the pastor Leydet, who was barbarously
put to death near this spot by Papists who overheard him singing psalms, would tend to deepen
their emotion and fill their souls with firmer resolves to dare and die for faith and fatherland.

Their courage soon found employment in dislodging a body of 200 troops who were entrenched
at the ports of San Guliano. These men contemptuously dared them to the fight, shouting, "Come
on, varlets of the devil, we occupy all the passes, and there are three thousand of us!" The
Vaudois accepted the challenge, and at a single charge drove them from their trenches and captured
all their stores, a very valuable acquisition to the conquerors. Moreover they slew thirty-one
of the fugitives, and lost but one of their own number. Following up their successes, they
besieged Bobbio, and drove away those who had dispersed its rightful and former occupants.
After this they hold a solemn conclave for devotional and deliberative purposes. M. Montoux,
Arnaud's colleague in the pastoral office, addressed them, and then Arnaud himself read the
following oath, which was solemnly agreed to, viz., "God, by His divine grace, having happily
reconducted us to the inheritance of our fathers, there to establish the pure service of our
holy religion, ... we, pastors, captains, and other officers, swear and promise before the
face of the living God, ... neither to separate nor disunite while God grants us life, even
should we have the misfortune to be reduced to three or four.... And to the intent that union,
which is the soul of our affairs, should remain inviolable among us, the officers shall swear
fidelity to the soldiers, and the soldiers to the officers, promising together to our Lord
and Saviour Jesus Christ to deliver, if possible, our brethren from the cruel woman of Babylon,
and with them to re-establish and maintain his kingdom till death, and observe all our lives
with good faith this present ordinance." As I stood upon this consecrated platform (Sibaud),
April 11th, 1871, I not only felt richly rewarded for the steep climb, from which the good
pastor of Bobbio sought to dissuade me, but I gained an enlarged view of the wonderful power
of the gospel of Christ in ennobling and constraining the souls of these valley men to such
deeds of daring and suffering. If, as I firmly believe, the gospel teaches that willingness
to do and suffer for Christ is the evidence of our belonging to Him, how luminous and abundant
are the title-deeds of the Vaudois to be reckoned "not least among the churches of God." May
the spirit of the oath still survive, and the day come when every one of those who inhabit
the locality shall be as true to the gospel of the grace of God as Arnaud and his brave troops!

After this solemn convocation, and sundry additions to their military organization, an attempt
was made by Arnaud to rescue Villaro from the Papists as Bobbio was rescued. At the first the
enemy fled, some across the Pelice, and others to the convent. While the Vaudois were closely
pressing them in this last-named retreat, their own position was turned by the arrival of a
large body of troops. These troops, 12,000 in number, drove back the Vaudois to Bobbio, and
threatened to exterminate them all. Eighty made good their escape over the Vandalin by scattering
themselves in all directions, and afterwards rejoining the main body. Montoux, the assistant
pastor, being thus separated from his friends, was captured by the enemy, and detained a prisoner
at Turin until the peace. Arnaud three times gave himself up for lost. Three times, with six
of his men, he betook himself to prayer; and three times the Lord sent him deliverance. At
last he escaped to the same mountain ridge where the eighty previously dispersed awaited his
arrival.

The check received at Villaro led Arnaud to retire from the inhabited parts of the valley of
Lucerna to the mountain heights, from which they could attack detachments of troops at favourable
intervals, and to which they could betake themselves for safety in spots difficult of access,
and easily defended by a small number against large bodies of troops. These mountain recesses,
indeed, play an important part in the history of the Vaudois generally, as well as in the exploits
of Janavello and Arnaud in particular.

It was chiefly on the heights above Sibaud, the slopes of the Vandalin, La Vachera, and Mont
Cervin, that they carried on their predatory and guerrilla warfare. At one time they attacked
600 men, killed one hundred, and lost only four. But they suffered almost incredible privations.
Their food oftentimes consisting of only wild fruits, raw cabbages, and other vegetables uncooked.
Occasionally they met with better fare; e.g., being at Prali for two days they cut down all
the corn in the neighbourhood, and ground it at the mills in the place. Nor did they forget
their duties as Christians in the midst of all these hardships. Arnaud administered the holy
communion to the troops who were with him, as well as to those in retreat above Bobbio. The
retreat of the Piedmontese troops under the command of the Marquis de Parelle, enabled the
Vaudois to keep in possession of the valley of San Martino, and to lay up a stock of corn,
grapes, chestnuts, apples, and walnuts. The flying camp also were able to capture some convoys
of provision, so that they could look forward to the winter (this was now Sept. 16th) without
much fear as to supplies. The Vaudois were now in three divisions; the larger part in the valley
of San Martino, another body next in number who were scouring the valley of Angrogna, and the
third and smaller division at Serre de Cruel over Bobbio. This last detachment destroyed the
convent of Villaro lest it should be turned into a fortress. They pulled down the popish church
at Rora, reduced the village to ashes, and brought away much spoil. However, as soon as the
Piedmontese soldiers were able to cover the mountains with troops they retaliated by setting
on fire the Vaudois asylum at Serre de Cruel. The Vaudois resisted, and did much execution;
but at last, terrified by the numbers of their adversaries, they forsook their new fortifications
at Pausettes and Aiguille, leaving behind them all their winter stores. They were pursued from
rock to rock, obliged to hide in the most loathsome caverns, and to subsist almost without
food, which was procured only at the peril of their lives. Nothing but a special Providence
kept them from entire destruction, and enabled them to rejoin the main body of their friends
in the valley of San Martino. The French troops engaged in thus hunting the Vaudois in the
month of October were commanded by M. de l'Ombraille, and, with the Piedmontese under Parelle,
covered all the villages and passes excepting a few small hamlets and byways. Hence the position
of the patriots was one of great danger. Some deserted, and perished miserably by the enemy.
A council was held at Rodoret. Divisions of opinion arose, and ruin seemed at hand. At this
critical moment Arnaud summoned them to prayer. After this he exhorted his companions to sacrifice
their own views for the common good, and advised a retreat upon Balsille. This they happily
consented to, and the same night they were on their way to the spot. The dangers of the road
may be supposed from the circumstance that much of it had to be passed on their hands and knees,
and from the fact that when the Vaudois afterwards saw the places by daylight they were filled
with horror.

We shall not be able to realize the good Providence which befriended them at this time unless
we consider for a moment the exact position of their new retreat. The chief group of houses
in the village of Balsille is close to a torrent at the foot of the mountains in the extreme
north-west of the Val Martino. A stone bridge, close to which is a mill, unites the two parts
of the village lying eastward, at the foot of the steep rocks of Guignivert, which rises towards
the west, and is thickly wooded at its base.[E]

From this natural wall a rock projects against the river and over the dwellings, forming quite
a natural fortress. It was supplied with water by three fountains. On this rock, then, the
Vaudois determined to await the enemy, instead of fleeing from mountain to mountain as they
had previously done. To this end they excavated, threw up entrenchments, made covered ways,
and executed a series of defences in harmony with what might have been the suggestions of a
skilful military engineer. They had three lines of defence within the fortifications on the
lower rock, and then, on an eminence yet higher, they constructed a little fort, with triple
entrenchment, and lastly, overlooking all, they posted a watch to give notice of the least
movement of the enemy. In addition to this they repaired the mill at the foot of their fortifications.
During this Arnaud preached twice a week and conducted daily prayer. The Vaudois had only been
a few days at their work, when the French battalions, unable to meet with them at Rodoret,
followed them down the valley, having already surprised their outposts at Passet, though without
inflicting loss. On the 29th of October the enemy surrounded them with troops from Friday to
Sunday. They also tried to force the bridge, but were compelled to retreat, leaving sixty men
killed and as many wounded, while the Vaudois had not lost a man. In the month of November
the French captured one of Arnaud's men, who had gone to nurse a sick friend, and in spite
of the entreaties of the judge at Pérousé, a Roman Catholic, the commandant, De l'Ombraille,
insisted on his execution. They made no further assault upon the castle, but having burnt all
the houses, farm buildings, corn stacks, &c., they retired, telling the Vaudois "to have patience,
and they would return after Easter." They were now comparatively free in their movements, and
felt intensely thankful to that gracious Father who had preserved them through so many dangers,
and given them, to retain possession of, the land they had come to reclaim. They were about
400 strong, exclusive of that division which had fixed itself on the mountains of Angrogna,
and the two little bands which still found a refuge in the wilds of the glen Guichard, or among
the rocks overhanging Bobbio.

The question of food made them anxious. But that God who had so wonderfully provided for them
in the past, had made as remarkable provision for this necessity. A fall of snow had covered
the corn which had ripened in September, but was left standing in the fields by this circumstance.
Thus hidden from the enemy, a sudden thaw revealed the treasure thus mercifully laid up for
these patriot warriors. In addition to the corn, strong detachments made requisitions on the
valleys of Pragela and Queyras, and so obtained supplies of butter, salt, wine, and other provisions.
A sad incident of the winter arose from the condition of one of those little parties, whom
the chances of war or some imprudence separated from the main body. A band of twelve, concealed
in a cave behind L'Essart, near Bobbio, were obliged by hunger to come out for provisions.
On returning, they thought they had been tracked in the snow, and so decided to betake themselves
to a new place of refuge in La Biava. Scarcely had they set out, however, than they discovered
125 peasants in pursuit of them. They threw down their baggage, and having reached a commanding
height, poured down such an effective volley that their assailants sought a truce, and acknowledged
twelve dead and thirteen wounded, though not one of the Vaudois was the least hurt. Their victory
did not, however, relieve them for long. Although their refuge was secure, the extreme cold
made it untenable, and they were compelled to seek a milder climate. Saddened by suffering,
and resolved to protect themselves, they met on their way an armed band. Assuming that they
were enemies, they fired and killed one of the party, when, to their great grief, blended with
unutterable joy, they discovered that they were brethren. With tears in their eyes they embraced
each other, and found the safety and succour they had almost despaired of in the castle at
Balsille.

During the winter months messages were sent to induce the Vaudois to withdraw from their native
land. To this Arnaud sent suitable replies, and also strengthened the fortifications in the
only part which had been left open by the river side.

On the 1st of May, 12,000 Piedmontese troops and 10,000 French, making a total of 22,000 troops,
under the command of Catinat, surrounded Arnaud's retreat. A body of horse soldiers concealed
themselves in the neighbouring woods, but were received with so effective a discharge of shot
as to inflict great loss. The main body of the assailants drew up to the foot of the rock,
but had to make a rapid retreat, with severe loss both in dead and wounded. After this an engineer,
having surveyed the approaches to the castle through a glass, ordered a picked corps of 500
men to advance in that direction, supported by some 700 peasants of Pragela and Queyras, for
the purpose of destroying the fence of trees and palisades constructed by Arnaud. Their attack
was covered by the fire of 700 men, drawn up in line of battle. But all was in vain; the fortifications
were impregnable, and the Vaudois, taking advantage of their confusion, poured down upon them
with such vigour that only ten or twelve men escaped. The commander and two sergeants who remained
by his side were taken prisoners, but not a single Vaudois was injured. The enemy retreated
in great confusion, and Arnaud, assembling his men for thanksgiving and prayer, spoke so powerfully
that both pastor and people, officers and men, were affected to tears. On searching the bodies
of the slain, a number of popish charms were found, vainly used as preservatives against the
attacks of men who were supposed to be in league with the evil one.

Catinat, like the Marquis de Larcy, in the affair of the bridge at Salabertrand, was so mortified
at his want of success, that he declined to head another assault against the Vaudois, therefore
he entrusts the command to the Marquis de Fequières. This new attack, on the 10th of May, deprived
Arnaud and his men of the privilege of the Holy Communion, which they had desired to partake
of on Whit Monday. The day following that on which the enemy's vanguard was observed, de Fequières
formed his men into five divisions, and completely invested the Vaudois stronghold. Finding
the discharge of musketry useless, he planted a cannon, loaded with balls weighing eight pounds,
on the Mont Guignivert, exactly opposite to La Balsille. He then hoisted a white flag, and
afterwards a red, signifying that unless the besieged asked for peace that no quarter would
be granted. They had previously refused to surrender, on the ground "that they looked to the
aid of God to protect them in the heritage of their fathers, but that if it were otherwise,
they would not yield while life lasted."

The day following a breach was made, and an assault directed to three different points. The
attacking columns were covered by a furious cannonade, and yet, wonderful to relate, none of
the defenders were struck. However, the lower entrenchments had to be abandoned, and M. de
Parat, the French prisoner, put to death, he acknowledging the necessity of the sentence. Indeed,
a crisis had come. Balsille could not be defended much longer. The watch on the summit had
been driven away by the enemy commanding the opposite rocks. Happily the darkness was coming
on, and by its aid one means of safety was looked for, viz., flight. But when the Vaudois looked
out upon the glare of the enemy's camp fires their hearts almost sank within them. And the
French, on their part, were joyfully anticipating their speedy destruction. But He who had
so often fought for Israel only permitted them to be reduced to such straits that they might
learn afresh how completely He was on their side. The camp fires, having by their light revealed
a possibility of escape through a frightful ravine, were extinguished, so far as service to
the enemy was concerned, by means of a thick fog! So under cover of this shield of the Almighty
the devoted band, led by Captain Poulat, a native of Balsille, let themselves down by an opening
in the rocks. The journey was one of great difficulty. Branches of trees and projecting ledges
of rocks were used to assist the descent, which was chiefly made in a sitting or sliding posture.
Nor could the fugitives altogether escape the neighbourhood of the French patrols, so closely
were they posted to the castle. One of the Vaudois, using his hands to save himself from falling,
let drop a kettle he was carrying, which by its rolling down excited the notice of the sentinel,
who at once gave the challenge, "Who goes there?" But as the kettle made no reply, the men
passed on, Arnaud humorously relates. After descending the precipitous sides of Mont Guignivert,
the Vaudois directed their steps southward towards Salse. It was now two hours after the break
of day, and they were cutting steps for themselves in the snow. A portion of the enemy's watch
discovered that they had escaped, and gave the alarm. Very quickly the enemy pursued them in
their journey, first of all for rest at Salse, then on to Rodoret. Finding this, the Vaudois
betook themselves to the summit of Galmon, where they halted, and Arnaud reviewed his men.
The sick and wounded were sent to a declivity to be tended by the surgeon of M. Parat, under
a strong guard. The main body passed the night in the wood of Serrelémi. A fog fortunately
rising, enabled them to advance to a hamlet called La Majère, where a shower of rain gave them
a much-needed supply of water. On the 17th of May, 1690 they had a sharp skirmish in the village
and churchyard of Pramol. They killed fifty-seven, and captured the commandant, from whom Arnaud
learnt that in three days Victor Amadeus would have to decide as to the question of continuing
his alliance with France, or of uniting with England and other European states against Louis
XIV. Arnaud, who by his former intimacy with the Prince of Orange, now William III. of England,
was well acquainted with European politics, at once saw how important was this news, and awaited
the result with corresponding anxiety.

The day after (Sunday), whilst Arnaud and his men were on the heights of Angrogna, two messengers,
sent by General Palavicini, announced the decision of Victor Amadeus, and offered terms of
peace in his name. The sudden pleasure of such a communication, after nine months of hardship,
toil, and fighting, might have been too much for these poor persecuted ones, had it not been
tempered with doubts as to its truthfulness. But gradually events confirmed their hopes, and
scattered their fears. Provisions were sent to Arnaud's men. The ministers, Montoux and Bastie,
with others who had been confined at Turin, now hastened to meet their brethren. Everywhere
they seemed treated with confidence; and, in conjunction with the Duke's troops, they made
several successful attacks upon the French.

One of Arnaud's men having captured a courier carrying despatches for the King of France, Palavicini,
commander-in-chief of the troops of Piedmont, was ordered to bring Arnaud with him into the
presence of Amadeus. The latter received the Vaudois deputation most graciously, and expressed
his desire that they should be henceforth friends, assuring them "that if they hazarded their
lives in his service, he also would hazard his for them." In proof of this cordial reconciliation,
Amadeus conferred the rank of colonel on the brave Arnaud, the chieftain of the Vaudois. He
also granted permission for the families of the banished ones to return to their valleys, and
decreed the restoration of their ancient possessions. Early in July Arnaud hastened to Milan
to meet the refugees from Switzerland and Germany, who with wives and children set out for
their native valleys, aided even by the kind help of those who, like the Elector of Brandenburg,
had given them shelter at some expense in his dominions, but who now made fresh sacrifices
to gratify the longing of their hearts.

Victor Amadeus was faithful to his promise, and not only allowed the exiles to return to home
and faith, but he also consented that some who under the severity of trial had abjured their
faith should be allowed the privilege of returning to their first and purer creed. In return
for this kindness, as well as in strict conformity with their own patriotic and pious principles,
the Vaudois greatly assisted the Duke of Savoy in his war with France, is the testimony of
Botta in his Storia d'Italia. The Count of Saluzzo also testifies "that they hastened to join
the Marquis de Perelle, who had not long before attacked them, and that their skirmishes cost
the enemy, whom they drove from Lucerna, more than a thousand men." Beauregard, in his "Historical
Memories of the House of Savoy," says, that "the barbets, by their bravery, made themselves
formidable to the French;" and with regard to the siege of Coni, mentions with special praise
the services of a troop of "eight hundred Vaudois, under the command of a chief celebrated
among them." This chief, no doubt, was Arnaud; but whilst he was anxious that they should render
to their prince every possible help in a military point of view, the latter sought to carry
out his intention of restoring the Vaudois to their property; but there were great difficulties
in the way.

By the edict of May 23rd, 1694, the ancient rights of the Vaudois are acknowledged, and the
persecuting decrees of January and April, 1686, revoked. The pope, Innocent XII., tried to
invalidate the decree, but the Senate of Turin confirmed the edict of their sovereign, and
prohibited the bull of the pope.

So, all the prospect seemed fair, and the Vaudois, so long and cruelly persecuted, might hope
for an era of prosperity; for the time and means not only to cultivate their desolated vineyards,
to lead their flocks again to pasture on their mountain slopes, and rebuild their thatched
homesteads, but also to restore the pure worship of their own and their fathers' God. But,
alas! "put not your trust in princes" was a sentiment which might have been graven deeply on
the memory of the all-confiding, all-enduring Vaudois.

Victor Amadeus was persuaded by the crafty Louis XIV. to forsake his allies in the war against
France, and become again a vassal of the proud and perfidious French king. And therefore, while
he remains true to the engagement to protect the ancient inhabitants of the valleys against
their inveterate persecutor, he makes a secret treaty (1696) by which, firstly, intercourse
between the professors of the reformed faith in France and Savoy is prohibited; secondly, French
soldiers enlisted in the Vaudois army are no longer allowed to remain in the service of the
duke; thirdly, refugees from France were to be expelled the valleys.

This crafty device of the mean and cowardly French king resulted in the banishment of seven
of the most valuable Vaudois pastors, viz., Montoux, the companion of Arnaud, five of their
colleagues, natives of Pragela or Dauphine, and Arnaud himself! It was indeed with a heavy
heart that the brave and trusted leader, the tried and sagacious counsellor, the devoted and
accomplished pastor of the Vaudois, left for ever those churches in whose service he had wrought
such exploits, and on whose behalf he had dared death in a thousand shapes and suffered almost
incredible privations. His only consolation, and without it, hero as he was, Arnaud might have
died from grief, lay in the mighty fact, that he had been privileged to accomplish a work inferior
to none in the annals of history. With a motive infinitely higher than that of Zenophon, his
exploits as a soldier are equal in skill, endurance, and bravery to his; while, as regards
results, the contrast is still more favourable to Henri Arnaud's work.

The Greeks, it is true, were brought back to their country, but remained mercenaries to the
last, while the Vaudois both regained their homes, and succeeded in replanting the standard
of their faith so firmly under the favour of Almighty God that never since has it been in such
danger of extinction as Arnaud delivered it from.

    "Since then 'abide the chosen race
      Within their ancient dwelling place,'
    Since then 'upon each Alpine height
      Truth sits enthroned in Rome's despite.'"

Some 3,000 French Protestants withdrew with Henri Arnaud from the valleys. Their first resting-place
was Geneva, which twelve years before had so charitably welcomed the persecuted Vaudois. Arnaud
reached Geneva August 30th, 1698, and speedily sought a place of habitation for his brethren.
The Duke of Wurtemberg provided a home for these victims of the cruelty of Louis XIV. in a
place to the west and north of Stuttgardt. On this occasion the exiles had no hope of returning,
and they settled down in their new abode and called their rising settlements by the names of
their former villages in the valleys of Perosa and Pragela. The Duke of Wurtemberg treated
these people with every kindness. As regards church matters and education they carried out
their own home arrangements, assisted by funds from England. In a colony, Schoenberg, near
Dürrmenz, Arnaud passed the remainder of his life. He declined the pressing offer of our King
William III. to take the command of a regiment in the English army. Having led the Vaudois
once back to their native soil, and established them in their earthly Goshen, his only desire
now was to lead the flock entrusted to his care amid the green pastures of the gospel upward
to the heavenly Canaan.

He died on the 8th of September, 1721, having reached the goodly age of four score years. He
was twice married, and left behind him three sons and two daughters.

Within the humble precincts of a temple built with walls of clay, and a bell, whose sound was
never heard beyond the cherry-trees of the village, gratitude and respect have assigned a place
of honour to the mortal remains of this truly great man. The ashes of Henri Arnaud lie beneath
the communion table. An engraving suspended below the pulpit gives the features of the hero
of San Germano of Salabertrand and the Balsille.

While on his tombstone is the following Latin inscription:--

                   "Beneath this Tomb lies

                        HENRI ARNAUD,

          PASTOR AND ALSO MILITARY COMMANDER OF THE
                    PIEDMONTESE VAUDOIS."

In the centre of the monument--

     "Thou seest here the ashes of Arnaud, but his achievements,
     labours, and undaunted courage none can depict. The son of
     Jesse combats alone thousands of foreigners; alone he terrifies
     their camp and leader. He died September 8th, 1721, aged lxxx."

FOOTNOTES:

[E] A modern traveller thus graphically describes the place as he saw it in 1854:--"And now
came in view the glorious Balsille, springing from the bed of the Germanasca, and its successive
wooded aiguilles rising like pinnacles up the steep roof of a Gothic cathedral.... Around it
gape fearful ravines, each with its headlong torrent, separating it from the grand heights
of the d'Albergian on the north, and the mount Guignivert on the south; whilst it is attached
to the summit of the Col du Pis on the west. The peaks of Balsille are fringed with pines,
but the rocks themselves are so pointed and broken that they resemble tops of pines on a Titan
scale. There are four principal peaks, and so the mountain has been named Quatre Dents." The
term château, or castle, used in this narrative was applied to a kind of grassy platform at
the top.

                         CHAPTER XI.

Although the Vaudois were not wholly despoiled of the fruit of their heroic efforts in fighting
their way back to their native valleys, yet the cruel banishment of the French Protestants,
and the removal of so many of their gifted and devoted leaders, was a very heavy calamity.
It placed almost insuperable difficulties in the way of their reorganization. Furthermore,
they were greatly harassed by the imposition of taxes far beyond their means, and most unjustly
levied only on the Protestants. Very dishonourable attempts were also made to seduce their
children from the profession of evangelical principles. They were not allowed to repair their
shattered temples, and were deprived of a proper number of pastors; so that altogether they
were in an evil case. Their proverbial and long-tried loyalty to their prince, however, flourished
in spite of these discouragements. Victor Amadeus, having joined England and Holland against
France, was besieged in Turin by the latter power in 1706. He was so hardly pressed by the
French troops as to be obliged to take refuge among his faithful subjects of the valleys. A
family named Durand had the honour of giving shelter to their fugitive prince; and when by
the forced marches of Prince Eugene deliverance was at hand, King Amadeus conferred the right
of burying in their own garden on the family which sheltered him, as well as bequeathed his
own silver spoons and drinking-cup to the family. I had the pleasure of seeing one of these
spoons, preserved in the museum at La Torre, on the occasion of my visit in 1871. Eugene and
the Duke of Savoy ascended the heights of the Superga (a hill about six miles from Turin) together.
The prince, detecting some mistakes in the movements of the French troops, exclaimed, "It seems
to me that these people are already half beaten;" whereupon the duke vowed, if Turin were delivered
from the French, that he would erect a monument on that spot to the Virgin. He kept his vow,
and the present imposing structure, used as a mausoleum for the House of Savoy, was begun in
1717, and finished fourteen years after. But he was not equally mindful of his obligations
to his devoted Vaudois, who, in addition to protecting their prince at the risk of their own
safety, also inflicted great injury upon the French troops when obliged to raise the siege
of Turin. Indeed the vexations to which the Vaudois were subjected by the interference of the
French court as the ready instrument of papal cruelty and intolerance provoked the kindly interposition
of Frederick I. of Prussia on their behalf. However, Amadeus would not protect the converts
from Catholicism, although he was firm in maintaining the rights of the Vaudois within the
narrow limits which had been conceded. Still these faithful subjects of the House of Savoy
had to bear many grievous acts of injustice, from which they were exempted by the express words
of the royal edicts. However, they endured all these irritations from papal lawlessness without
being led away by the seductive promises and the illusory hopes of freedom and happiness which
so largely unsettled the continent of Europe by the outbreak of the French Revolution in 1789.
Indeed so sensitive were they of anything which might bring their loyalty into question that
they actually suspended one of their pastors from his functions for six months because he had
inadvertently alluded to revolutionary principles from his pulpit! I may add that the same
principle of wise abstention from all political discussions still characterize the Vaudois
pastors, both in the valleys and the mission-field of the Italian peninsula.

In the wars between France and Savoy at this time the Vaudois had the guardianship of the frontiers
entrusted to them. In 1793 the French tried hard to move the Vaudois from their fidelity by
the most attractive promises of civil and religious liberty. Although they refused to listen
to these promises, yet the ready tongue of calumny took advantage of circumstances connected
with the surrender of the fort of Mirabocco to asperse their integrity. Investigation showed
that if Musset (the only Vaudois officer present at the time) had been in command, the place
would have been defended to the last. Still such was the spirit engendered by popish fanaticism,
that a most frightful conspiracy to murder the defenceless Vaudois women and children of San
Giovanni and La Torre, while their fathers and brothers were all away guarding the frontiers,
was concocted. Happily for the credit of Christianity and humanity it was discovered and revealed
in time by two members of the Romish faith, who were too honourable to sanction such a scheme.
These gentlemen, Brianza, priest of Lucerna, and Captain Odetti, gave notice to the Vaudois.
Messengers were at once despatched to the mountains. General Gaudin at first refused to let
them go to the defence of their homes, disbelieving the existence of the conspiracy until he
was shown the names of seven hundred of those engaged in it. Then he hesitated to weaken his
forces against the French; but a stratagem happily relieved him of his embarrassment, though
eventually he lost his command for his humanity, while none of the conspirators were punished!
Instead of this a Vaudois captain, Davit, was executed, and others placed under arrest upon
unjust suspicions. By these proceedings a feeling of disquietude was provoked, which only the
appointment of General Zimmerman, a native of Lucerna, was able to calm.

An armistice taking place in the spring of 1796, and Charles Emmanuel IV. coming to the Sardinian
crown, the British ambassador sought more considerate treatment of the Vaudois. In reply to
this appeal they were allowed to repair and enlarge their temples, and even to remove them
to more commodious sites. In 1798 Charles Emmanuel IV. was only allowed the island of Sardinia
by the all-conquering French, who took possession of Piedmont, and annexed it as a province
to France. This event gave to the Vaudois in a moment every social right, every political privilege,
and, above all, the religious freedom they had for centuries fought, and bled, and suffered
in vain to procure, at least in its entirety!

However, the position of the Vaudois was one of difficulty. Under the rule of their de facto
government they took part in repressing the uprising of the Piedmontese against the French
at Carmagnola. And when three hundred wounded soldiers, fleeing from the Austrian army, who
pursued them to the Vaudois frontiers, reached Bobbio in a state of appalling destitution,
M. Rostaing, the pastor, and his people, fed them out of their scanty stores, dressed their
wounds, and carried them on their shoulders over frightful precipices, and along snow-covered
defiles impassable to ordinary traffic. This act of humanity (gratefully acknowledged by the
French commander, Suchet) would have drawn upon them a fresh outpouring of oppression, had
not the Russian general taken a truer estimate of their position. He allowed them to retain
their arms on the condition that they used them only in self-defence. Napoleon's victory at
Marengo, on the 14th June, 1800, consolidated the French rule over Piedmont. But the Vaudois
experienced dreadful privations at this time, owing to the ravages of the soldiers of the two
armies, French and Austrian, and a period of scarcity. The stipends of the pastors were also
in great part wanting. The French government made a provision out of appropriations formerly
given to the Romish priests and monks. Indeed, after a conversation which Napoleon held in
a most agreeable manner with M. Peyrani, moderator of the Vaudois Church, he assigned stipends
of one thousand francs yearly to the pastors of parishes, together with an extra allowance
of two hundred francs for work as secretaries of the communes. On this occasion Napoleon referred
in a spirit of admiration to the exploits of Arnaud and other brave leaders of the Vaudois,
and also drew from M. Peyrani the statement that his church had an independent existence from
about the year 820. At this time the Vaudois rebuilt their temple at Giovanni, closed since
the year 1658. However, it was barely finished when it suffered much damage from an earthquake,
the shocks of which were felt for a period of four months in the neighbourhood of Pinerolo,
and in other parts, both of Italy and France. Although the prevalence of this earthquake inflicted
great suffering on the Vaudois by the cessation of all industrial pursuits, the necessity of
living in tents, and the general terror and alarm which it inspired, yet the actual loss of
life did not extend to more than three cases. There were many remarkable deliverances. Notwithstanding
this visitation of Providence, it does not appear that religious life existed to the degree
of former times. The spirit of atheism stirred up in France; the prevalence of a cold materialistic
philosophy in those seminaries where the students for the Waldensian ministry had to seek instruction;
the absorption of the thoughts by the reports of military expeditions; the bewitchery attached
to the name and achievements of Bonaparte, not only made the young men of the valleys willing
to enrol beneath his standard, but also had a tendency to restrict the simplicity and the piety
so characteristic of their forefathers to those who from sex or age were left outside of that
turbid wave which swept others into the current of its power. In 1815 came the downfall of
the proud empire erected by the military prowess and boundless ambition of the first Napoleon.
How this affected the Vaudois we will consider in our next chapter.

                        CHAPTER XII.

On the return of Victor Emmanuel I. to the throne of his fathers, with augmented dominions,
the Waldenses had such favourable expectations from his knowledge of them that out of respect
to his feelings they abstained from certain efforts which they might have used at the congress
of Vienna for the preservation of their rights. Unhappily, these hopes were not realized. The
king passed an edict restricting the Vaudois to the concessions enjoyed before the French occupation;
and in place of the stipend of one thousand francs for their pastors he assigned them only
half the amount. The Romish priests, not content with the restoration of the infamous hospital
for abducting Protestant children at Pinerolo, and other grants made by the French, actually
set up a claim for income which had accrued during the period of their dispossession. This,
however, Count Crotti, superintendent of the province, refused, on the ground that the Vaudois
administered not only lawfully, but in such a way as to enhance rather than diminish the value
of the property. The temple of Giovanni was also closed again, but only for one year, though
the use of it was accompanied by an injunction to place a screen before the entrance, so as
to mollify the opposition of the priest of the Romish chapel exactly opposite in the same village.
The king further allowed the Vaudois to retain property outside the valleys acquired during
the French occupation; also to follow, besides ordinary trades, the professions of surgeon,
apothecary, and architect.

As the old machinery of fire and sword was no longer available, the enemies of the Vaudois
sought to win them from their principles by the issue of pastoral letters from the bishops
of Pinerolo. Messrs. Bigez, Rey, and Charvaz engaged in these attempts, but without success,
the pastors refuting their epistles, especially MM. Geymet, Rodolph, Peyran, and Mondon. Victor
Emmanuel having abdicated in 1821, was succeeded by Carlo Felice, a bigoted Romanist. He published
a decree for restricting the liberties of the Vaudois according to the terms of the edict of
1622. He also allowed a bull of Pope Gregory, which forbids "to those of the pretended reformed
religion" the right of trading among the Romanists. By means, however, of protests from the
representatives of England and Prussia this last act of tyranny was not persevered in. Still,
when the Waldenses asked to see their king, he denied them audience in the following terms:
"Tell them they only want one thing; that is, to be Catholics." Their loyalty, indeed, was
conspicuous; for they stood almost alone in 1821, when the rest of Piedmont was wavering in
its fidelity to the house of Savoy. In 1831 Carlo Alberto ascended the throne. Although greatly
under the influence of the Church of Rome, he yet showed a spirit of justice towards his Vaudois
subjects. For instance, he not only removed the disability by which they were denied an officer's
commission in the Sardinian army, but on the occasion of the death of Major Bonnet, a Vaudois
in his service, who had been buried without the honours due to his rank, he commanded that
the body should be exhumed and removed to La Torre at his expense, and there be interred with
all the respect due to the aged soldier. He further settled an annuity upon the major's children.
Something of this same alternation between subjection to Rome and the aspirations of justice
showed itself in another transaction of his reign, namely, that of the erection of a church
and priory for the accommodation of eight missionary fathers of the order of St. Maurice and
Lazarus at La Torre. These buildings stand at the very entrance of the town as you approach
from Giovanni. I confess their presence suggested disagreeable thoughts to my mind. They seemed
so out of harmony with the spirit of the new era of justice and freedom, and to awaken so many
memories of past oppressions. But these thoughts were as nothing to the gloomy apprehensions
which actually filled the minds of the Vaudois at the date of their erection. They were not
a little perplexed, beside, as to the way in which they should act on the occasion of the visit
of their king to attend the ceremonial of this church consecration. However, a gracious Providence
interposed on their behalf, and showed the character of their sovereign in an assuring light.
First of all he sent back the troops of the line which were proposed as his escort. Instead
of these he consented to be received by the militia of the valleys, stating, in reply to those
who urged a guard of regular troops, "I require no guard in the midst of the Vaudois." The
king was most cordially welcomed, and, being deeply touched by his reception, ordered each
company of the militia to pass before him according to their communes, and with their respective
colours. He also gave an audience to the Vaudois Table, left money to be distributed among
the poor, in which the Protestants shared; and to perpetuate the memory of this visit of September
24th, 1844, caused a fountain to be erected close by with the inscription, "Il re Carolo Alberto,
al popolo che l'accoglieva con tanto affetto." "The king Charles Albert to the people who welcomed
him with so much affection."

This pleasing episode in the history of the Vaudois forms a fitting prelude to the advent of
a yet more substantial token of good-will on the part of their sovereign. I mean that edict
of emancipation which, while it did justice to the people of the valleys, also, by the circumstances
of their inclusion, made the kingdom of Sardinia a true pattern of constitutional monarchy;
kept her true amidst the perfidy and violence by which the sovereigns of other states withdrew
on the morrow the boon of the yesterday, and in consequence reaped a harvest of anarchy and
disorder; while brave Piedmont has not only remained firm as a rock, but has been gathering
to itself, one by one, the minute subdivisions of the Italian peninsula, until at length we
see its true and faithful sovereign, "il Re galantuomo," the monarch of all that stretches
from the Tyrol on the north to Sicily on the south. "His sceptre rules and banner waves" from
the shore of the Adriatic to the valleys of the Alps. And throughout the length and breadth
of that land, whilst neighbouring countries, notably those most servile to the papacy, Spain
and France, have been convulsed by terrors and paralysed by intestine and foreign wars, the
tricoloured flag of the Italian kingdom floats triumphantly above the walls of ancient Rome,
and such an era of peaceful contentment and commercial enterprise has begun as its proud cities
and luxuriant plains have long been strangers to. Just as with regard to God's Israel of the
East, so does it seem to have been with this modern Israel of the West. The nations who persecuted
and despoiled the sons of Abraham have been despoiled themselves. The nations who befriended
the Jews have risen to power and influence. Likewise the persecutors of God's faithful ones
in the valleys of the Po, notably the priest-king and France, have been scourged; whilst the
countries which befriended them in their long series of trials, the Protestant states of Germany,
Holland, and our own land, have been distinguished by a constantly augmenting prosperity. Oh,
that men were wise! Oh, that politicians would remember that it is righteousness which exalteth
a nation. The thought that Piedmont became the Zoar of the living Church of God, when its members
fled from the Sodom of pagan and papal persecution and corruption, is not one of the least
of the grounds of hope, that not only shall its political expansion continue, but that with
it shall also be united that nobler gift of the gospel of Christ, in its purity and power conveying
the glorious liberty of the children of God to the millions who have so long groaned beneath
the bondage of Antichrist.

But these thoughts remind us that the precious boon of emancipation for the Vaudois did not
descend upon them without an intervening period of doubt and struggle.

The political changes first announced in October, 1847, did not include the Vaudois within
their range. Hence they had to ask for a special act by which their freedom should be conceded.
All the liberals supported this demand. At a banquet at Pinerolo, Audifredi, an advocate, said,
"Twenty thousand of our brothers stand, so to speak, enclosed and isolated between two torrents
in our delightful valleys. They are honourable, laborious, strong in mind and body, equal to
other Italians. With enlightened dispositions and by severe sacrifices they have educated their
children, but oppressed by burdens they do not enjoy the rights of other citizens. To us it
belongs, as their nearest brethren, to vote that by an universal brotherhood there shall no
longer be the embankment of these torrents, that the country should be their mother and not
their stepmother, and that as they are judged suitable to defend their country by the arm,
so it should be allowed that they can enlighten and elevate it by the mind. Evviva la emancipazione
dei Valdesi."[F]

An immense petition was drawn up, headed by the names of Marquis Roberto d'Azeglio, Count Cavour,
Cesare Balbo, and, strange to say, the Bishop of Pinerolo. The attorney-general, Count Sclopis,
supported the memorial, because, said he, by careful examination of the criminal records of
the government, "no other population of the country could be compared with the Vaudois in morality
and virtue." At length the statuto was published in the Official Gazette on the 25th of February,
1848 (though dated the 17th of that month). On the evening of that day the residences of the
English and Prussian ambassadors were brilliantly illuminated, as likewise the houses of nearly
all the Protestants in Turin. Moreover, the news of this happy event soon spread itself over
the valleys. At nightfall some hundreds of bonfires were kindled on the hills, and even upon
the tops, yet crowned with snow, and thus the joyous demonstrations of the Protestants of the
capital were united in by their brethren on the hill sides.

But two days after this there was a yet greater demonstration of gladness. Deputations from
all parts of the kingdom met in Turin to express their united thanks to their monarch for the
constitution bestowed upon his people. The Vaudois assembled in large numbers, and, with the
Protestants inhabiting the city, formed a column of more than six hundred persons, headed by
ten pastors, and bearing aloft a magnificent banner of the colours of Savoy, on which was written,
embroidered in large silver letters, these simple but expressive words--

    "A RE CARLO ALBERTO I., VALDESI RICONOSCENTI."

(The grateful Waldenses to Charles Albert.)[G] While the large procession was waiting to start,
a deputation was sent to the Vaudois, begging that they would take the place of honour. "Vaudois,"
they said, "until now you have been the last; to-day justice must be done you, and you shall
walk at our head!" And so it was. The Vaudois column, preceded by its banner, and surrounded
by twelve children, dressed in the Italian costume of the sixteenth century, opened the march;
and then a spectacle unknown in the annals of Piedmont was displayed in the capital, and by
it to the kingdom. In every street wherever the procession traversed, wherever appeared the
flag of the persecuted Church, hands clapped, handkerchiefs waved, hats (even that of a priest)
rose in the air, "Evviva ái Valdesi! Evviva l'emancipazione!" burst from thousands of mouths,
and many of the spectators, leaving the ranks, came and hung upon the neck of some member of
the column, accompanying the act (sufficiently expressive in itself) by words of a most affecting
and brotherly character. The enthusiasm was indescribable. What a contrast between the acclamations
of that day and the cries of "Death to the heretic!" which in other times these same streets
so often heard at the passing of some confessor of the gospel to a cruel death![H]

What these festive proceedings foreshadowed as to the extension and deepening of the piety
and power of the church of the valleys must be reserved for our next chapter.

FOOTNOTES:

[F] Gli Evangelici Valdesi, per PAOLO GEYMONAT, Professore di Teologia in Firenze.

[G] This banner was afterwards presented to the king, and most graciously received by him.

[H] Le General Beckwith, sa vie a ses travaux. By J. P. MEILLE, Pasteur.

                        CHAPTER XIII.

We concluded our last amidst the gladness of heart which filled the souls of myriads to whom
social progress, political freedom, and evangelical truth were precious. Our object now is
to recount the fruits of that enlargement accorded to the Vaudois; and in order to do this
we must take a retrospect of their religious condition for some few years before the arrival
of that grand epoch. At that period the state of things in the valleys was far from satisfactory.
Not to recount, as among the causes, those political disabilities to which reference has been
previously made, I will refer to some additional circumstances of a vexatious and depressing
character. One was the hindrances to the obtaining the most indispensable religious books,
such as Bibles, catechisms, hymn-books. With each parcel of Bibles and New Testaments, the
moderator was obliged to sign a formal undertaking that not a single copy should be sold, nor
even lent to a Roman Catholic. Again, in all the communes of the valleys, where nearly all
the proprietors were Protestants, and scarcely a Roman Catholic could be found who was not
either living on alms or employed as a daily labourer, the law required that the majority of
the members of the communal council should be always and necessarily composed of Romanists.

As regards primary education, the valleys were more favourably circumstanced than other parts
of the kingdom. Out of a population of some twenty thousand, nearly four thousand attended
school, at least during the winter months. However, it will be seen that the real work of education
was not in so satisfactory a condition as the above statement, in a superficial point of view,
might imply. To show this we will descend to details as to the schools, their kind, structure,
fittings, and teachers.

First, then, we take the HAMLET SCHOOLS, about one hundred and twenty in number. They were
carried on generally in a stable, and the place was neither remarkable for space nor cleanliness;
so that on one side, in a narrow division, would be thirty or forty children, separated from
the sheep or the goats by so slender a space that not infrequently the heads of the children
and the animals would combine in a way more grotesque than effective for educational purposes.

The amount of didactic efficiency to be expected in the teacher may be surmised from the circumstance
of his salary being sometimes less than the munificent sum of threepence-halfpenny per day!
With such machinery we may feel it was an achievement to be grateful for, if by the end of
the winter's session the children had learnt to read, write, and cipher moderately, and could
repeat by heart a prayer for morning and evening, the Lord's Prayer, the Decalogue, and the
Apostles' Creed.

Second. There were also the PARISH SCHOOLS, open ten months in the year, and attended during
the winter by a large number of children, the majority of whom had to leave on the advent of
spring to work in the fields. Those not so required remained in the district or hamlet schools.
The buildings in which the parish schools were conducted were not exactly stables, but yet
entirely destitute of the light, air, fittings, and furniture requisite for school-work. The
only reading-books were a French Bible and Italian acts of parliament. So much, then, for the
primary schools. The condition of the secondary or grammar schools was not much more encouraging.
The institution was migratory, and aimed to teach fifteen or twenty pupils, divided into five
classes, under one teacher, not always very competent, and badly paid, as much Latin and Greek
as would secure their admission as students in the academies of Strasbourg, Lausanne, or Geneva.
But we pass from schools to things religious and ecclesiastical. Morals were comparatively
pure; there was a respect for religion; a frequent attendance on public worship; a deep attachment
to their ancestral faith; a disposition to endure everything rather than deny it; and affection
and esteem for their pastors. As regards the pastors, they were, almost without exception,
faithful to the ancient evangelical orthodoxy.

But there was that which both pastors and flocks were very imperfectly acquainted with, viz.,
on one side the aim and mission of the church, and on the other the true nature of the fruits
intended to be produced by the preaching of the gospel. In a word, there was a lack of true
spiritual energy, a realization of the need and preciousness of salvation. There was the outward
shell of orthodoxy, but the living soul of godliness was wanting. Jesus Christ was present
in name, but absent in reality.

In the administration of the church there were many serious defects. The meeting of the synods
was very difficult, partly because of the suspicions of the government, and partly from the
unwillingness of the communes to bear the expense connected therewith. Again, the synods themselves
answered but imperfectly to the design of their institution, and their influence on the spiritual
state of the church very small. The Table, in its turn, forgetting that its duties were essentially
religious, sunk insensibly into a kind of higher tribunal for secular affairs. The same tendency
showed itself in the bosom of the consistories.

However, amidst these deep shades some gleams of light, the heralds of better things, began
to show themselves. The first of these hopeful signs was due to the liberality, as regards
its beginning, of Madame Geymet, who in the year 1826 laid the foundation of a hospital for
the poor Waldensians at La Torre. Madame Geymet was encouraged warmly by Pastor La Bert, the
then moderator of the Waldensian Church, and Pastor Cellerier, of Geneva, who made a collection
in aid of the object. The Count Waldburg Truchsesse, Prussian ambassador at Turin, obtained
help from Prussia; Dr. Gilly, by means of the committee in London, sent large help from this
country. Holland, France, and Russia also joined in the effort; so that at length the brave
projector had the satisfaction of seeing two hospitals grow out of her once ridiculed scheme.
The second hospital was erected at Pomaret, for the especial benefit of the valleys of San
Martino and Pragela.

Another means of awakening at this time arose from the arrival of some young ministers, who
had just left the foreign academies, especially that of Lausanne, where the influence of a
spiritual revival had been particularly felt. A visit paid to the different parishes of the
valleys in 1826 by Felix Neff and Pastor Blanc, of Mens, resulted in much spiritual fruit.

These were but streaks of morning light, however. Long years had to pass, and many painful
struggles to be engaged in, before the Sun of Righteousness shone clearly with His beneficent
rays on the thick woods and the shady corners of these lovely valleys. Among those who have
been the means of promoting the revival of true religion in the Waldensian Church stand out
conspicuously the names of Dr. Gilly and General Beckwith. The former paid his first visit
to the valleys in 1823. As that visit became the germ of so much blessing to the Vaudois, it
is not unimportant to recall the providential circumstance which led to that visit. Referring
to the doctor's own narrative,[I] he says, "I happened to attend a meeting of the Society for
Promoting Christian Knowledge on a day when a very affecting letter was read to the board,
signed Ferdinand Peyrani, minister of Pramol, 'and requested that some aid might be sent, in
books or money, to the ancient Protestant congregation in the mountains of Piedmont, who were
struggling hard against poverty and oppression.'" The society voted forty pounds' worth of
books, including those mentioned as specially needed for use in their churches. But from the
date of this incident Dr. Gilly sought after fuller information respecting the Vaudois, and
determined on visiting their valleys. This purpose he carried into effect early in the year
1823, and on his return home the next year he published an account of his journey, his object
being to excite an immediate interest on behalf of these people. How largely he succeeded,
so as to entitle him to be reckoned among their chiefest benefactors, we shall have occasion
to remark later on. But, apart from the formation of a large and influential committee in London,
by which considerable sums of money were raised "to assist the Vaudois in maintaining their
ministers, churches, schools, and poor," he was the means of invoking the sympathy and aid
of one who consecrated his life, strength, and means in one almost unbroken series of efforts
for their amelioration--I mean General Beckwith. This distinguished philanthropist was born
at Halifax, Nova Scotia, October 2nd, 1789. He was baptized by the names of John Charles, and
entered the 95th Regiment in the year 1803. His first years as a soldier were spent in Hanover,
Denmark, and Sweden. In 1809 he was engaged in the Peninsular War, being present at the disastrous
retreat from Corunna and the sieges of Salamanca and Toulouse. For his services at the last
place he received a gold medal and the rank of major, March 3rd, 1814. During these campaigns
he was never wounded, although exposed to great danger. One morning, among others, his old
servant had scarcely reached the skirts of a forest in which the enemy had an ambuscade than
his master's horse was killed by a ball, and the rider overthrown. The servant thought it was
all over with his master, but the sad thought had hardly entered his mind when Beckwith sprang
up and cried out, "All right, John," and by a quick movement escaped beyond reach of the enemy's
fire.

On the return of Napoleon from Elba, Beckwith rejoined the standard of Wellington, and took
a prominent part in the battle of Waterloo. On this day he had four horses killed under him,
but received no personal injury until he was struck by a cannon ball in the left leg from the
retreating fire of the French. After three months' unsuccessful treatment amputation was declared
necessary. This random shot, like the bow drawn at a venture in an ancient battle, was pregnant
with mighty consequences, not only to Beckwith personally, but to that interesting people to
whom as yet he had never given a thought.

Beckwith, though only twenty-six years of age, was made a lieutenant-colonel on the field of
battle, and received the silver medal struck to commemorate the victory. Had he not lost his
leg he would probably have risen to the highest distinction as a soldier. But if so he might
never have become the instrument of such extensive blessings to the Vaudois as was destined
in the providence of God.

The first foundation stone, so to speak, on which was to be erected the spacious superstructure
of his after benevolence began at the time of his retirement to the château of Mont St. Jean,
during the period of weakness resulting from his wound at Waterloo. The owner of the mansion
had a little girl, six years of age, who was a most attentive nurse to him. She hardly ever
left his bedside, and by her childish prattling, innocent pleasantries, and tender sympathy,
won his regard, and spread a charm over a time of pain and depression; so much so, indeed,
that when the time of separation came it greatly distressed him, and in after life he never
spoke of her without evident emotion.

But it was in this way God led him first to that benevolent interest in the young which afterwards
became so marked a feature of his character.

But up to this time, whilst Beckwith was not a sceptic, yet his faith was not of an operative
kind, he was taken up with those pursuits which belonged solely to time. The means employed
by God to awaken him to a knowledge of the real aim of life was a copy of His own Word. This
treasure had lain unused at the bottom of his portmanteau until he lay wounded at a little
village near Courtray, in Belgium. Then he began to read with an interest not previously felt,
and it became to him the word of life. When he was questioned about the circumstances of his
conversion, he used to reply, in his graphic way: "The good God said, 'Stop here, you rascal!'
and He has cut off my leg, and I think I shall be the more happy without it."

Of Beckwith's character as a soldier one of his former companions writes thus: "I always regarded
Beckwith as an officer of very brilliant promise, for he embodied all the requisites of a great
commander: remarkable quickness in conception, imperturbable coolness in the time of action,
admirable power of organization, with indomitable courage. When he was major he always left
a position of safety to mix in the thick of the fight, and I remember meeting him in the breach
of Ciudad Rodrigo at the head of an attacking column when he might have been in the rear."
The same person also testifies to Beckwith's care of his men, extending even to minute particulars
about clothing. Also, that he was a great favourite with his brother officers on account of
his intelligence and amiability. After recovering somewhat from his wound he returned to England,
and visited America during this time. Shortly after his arrival in England from the latter
place he sought out his old companions in the army, and among others he called on the Duke
of Wellington.

It was while calling at Apsley House on one of these occasions he was shown into the library,
and whilst waiting a short time for the duke his eye fell upon a number of new books, including
Dr. Gilly's Visit to the Vaudois. On leaving he obtained a copy of the book. The result was
that he determined to visit the valleys himself, which event happened in the autumn of 1827.

Owing to the weather he stayed only a few days, but returned the following year, and continued
his visits to the valleys year after year, until, in 1833, a severe illness obliged him to
remain in England. In the autumn of 1835 he returned, and lived in the valleys with Pastor
Bonjour, at St. John's, for the next five years. Again, after an interval of two years, he
returned to the valleys, living at the ancient castle of La Torre. In 1836 the Vaudois Table
had his portrait painted, and engravings distributed through the valleys. In 1844 the synod
presented him with a cup of honour, also Dr. Gilly and the Count Waldburg Truchsesse. In 1846
he was promoted to the rank of major-general in the English army, and also received the dignity
of a Knight of St. Maurice and Lazarus from the king of Sardinia. In 1850 he married a Vaudoise.
In 1862 he dies among the people he had so long loved and served, and is buried at La Torre,
amid the profoundest grief and deepest veneration of the whole population.

FOOTNOTES:

[I] Narrative of an Excursion to the Mountains of Piedmont in the year 1823. By WILLIAM STEPHEN
GILLY. 2nd Ed. C. and J. Rivington.

                        CHAPTER XIV.

Our last chapter closed with a brief sketch of the life of Beckwith, so that in the present
I might be free to speak of the work done, without interpolations as to the personal movements
of him who was in several respects the chief worker. To those who desire to read the full particulars
of General Beckwith's life, I very earnestly commend the deeply interesting work of Pastor
J. P. Meille, to whose pages I am greatly indebted.

Beckwith was early impressed with the conviction that God had providentially preserved the
Vaudois, that they might be the agents of evangelizing Italy, through the political changes
which were being wrought in that country by means of the kingdom of Sardinia. He was the first
to recognize this important truth, and he never lost sight of it, either in the motive which
it supplied for his own efforts, or in the influence he sought to bring to bear upon others.
This belief in the mission of the Vaudois quickened all his sympathies and guided all his plans.
To turn to these plans, one of the earliest was the improvement and extension of primary education.
Beckwith saw at once the value of the Quartier schools, and he began to erect a better class
of buildings for this purpose. First of all he bore the whole expense, excepting the site;
afterwards he paid the cost of labour in erecting the buildings, but required the inhabitants
to supply material as well as site. He also oftentimes contributed largely to augment the salary
of the underpaid teachers. Some one hundred and twenty buildings, commodious and well-situated,
were the result of these efforts.

But the improvement in the hamlet schools brought out more distinctly the sad condition of
the parish schools. To overcome difficulties, Beckwith would say to the parish authorities,
You need a better school and residence for your teacher; if you will raise a thousand francs
(about a fourth or fifth, according to circumstances), I will supply the rest.

If this offer was accepted, the colonel generally made the contract, and overlooked the erection
of the building.

In this way, a little by little, some this year and others the next, in nearly every commune
of the valleys there rose up commodious edifices, duly furnished with all the requisites of
teaching. The change was immense from the narrow, confined, ill-ventilated, badly lighted,
and unfurnished buildings which had previously existed.

The reformation, however, in the buildings and their fittings was not the only thing requisite
for a good school. Good teachers were also needed, and to procure these it was necessary to
augment the scale of stipend. At the time under review the highest salary was from three to
four hundred francs (£12 or £16) per annum. Beckwith set about this task, and being ably supported
by the moderator of the church, M. Bonjour, he had the satisfaction of seeing an arrangement
made by which the salaries of the teachers were raised one-third. This augmentation began on
the 1st of January, 1837. But the good effected by this movement was not simply the increased
pay of the teacher; it raised the work in public estimation, and gave to the teacher's position
a degree of security which enabled him to devote himself more entirely to teaching as a distinct
profession.

Another means for advancing education was that of increasing the personal efficiency of the
teachers themselves. To accomplish this, the teachers of all the parish schools in the valleys
were sent for a course of instruction at the normal college at Lausanne. The expense of this
important measure was borne entirely by Beckwith. And, moreover, to secure permanently the
above results, a rule was adopted by the synod in 1839, that henceforth every teacher in the
Vaudois parish schools must produce a certificate of didactic power, as well as moral fitness
for the office.

Beckwith's next movement was the establishment of a boarding-school for girls. I had the pleasure
of visiting this very interesting and important institution in 1871, and was struck by the
efficiency and excellence of its character. But it is time to refer to his exertions in connection
with SECONDARY instruction. Although Dr. Gilly very deservedly has the chief credit in reference
to the erection of that noble college of the Holy Trinity at La Torre, which forms so imposing
and interesting an object to the Christian tourist, and which constituted so marked an epoch
in the restoration of piety and sound learning among the pastors and general population of
the valleys, yet it must be acknowledged that the many difficulties associated with this grand
enterprise would hardly have been surmounted, had it not have been for the presence on the
spot of so true a friend to the Vaudois, and so able an ally of the noble projector of the
college, as his military colleague.

Not only did he provide a building for the grammar school whose location had been one of the
difficulties connected with the establishment of the college, but he also superintended the
erection of the buildings, and gave a sum of ten thousand francs towards the cost. Dr. Gilly
acknowledges these things in a letter to the moderator under date of April 28th, 1835. He also
was instrumental, with Dr. Gilly, in founding a grammar school at Pomaret. This school was
subsequently enlarged by the efforts of the Rev. Dr. Stewart, of Leghorn, another warm-hearted
friend of the Waldensian Church.

In 1847 Beckwith erected a group of houses, just above the college, for the residence of the
professors. But important as were the reformations sought and obtained in the educational machinery
of the valleys, yet it was almost as needful to improve the character of the ecclesiastical
edifices used by the Vaudois. Few were such as fitted the purposes to which they were set apart.
There is nothing surprising in this when we consider the circumstances of the Vaudois through
so many centuries. But, easy as it is to account for the lack of edifices appropriate to the
decent and reverent worship of Almighty God at the period referred to, the thing itself was
nevertheless a misfortune. Hence in 1843 Beckwith offered to restore the temple at Rodoret,
which was in a most deplorable state. The temple was not alone in its need; the parsonage-house,
a very crazy building, was destroyed by an avalanche on the 16th of January, 1845, burying
beneath its ruins the pastor, his wife, their little child, aged five months, and servant,
the only living creature escaping being the pastor's dog! The new temple being finished in
March, Beckwith commenced operations for the erection of a suitable presbytery. The total cost
of the new building was thirteen thousand francs, contributed chiefly by Beckwith, but with
the help of the commune, Dr. Stewart, of Leghorn, and friends in Dublin and America.

His next work was the restoration of the church at Rora. This matter was accompanied by a pleasing
incident. He was speaking of the affair at the house of a friend in England. A little girl
of the family overheard the conversation, and, approaching the general, offered him a penny,
saying she would like to assist in building the church. He was much touched by this action
of the child, and taking her on his knees, said, "Yes, my friend; with that which you have
given me I will build the church; and your penny, placed in the corner stone, will tell all
the world that you have been the founder." The new building was consecrated in January, 1846.
Other temples and presbyteries were restored, including that of Prali. The churches of Coppier
and Angrogna were restored in 1847 by Mrs. General Molyneux Williams. But a greater work was
accomplished in 1852, when Beckwith erected a church for the parish of La Torre, which, under
the influence of oppressive edicts, had been deprived of its temple for hundreds of years.
This edifice is, both as regards dimensions and architecture, suited to the position it holds
as the parish church of the capital of the valleys; those valleys no longer dreading the approach
of sanguinary bands to pillage and destroy, its people no longer crushed beneath a bondage
which refused them the opportunities of worship in their own parochial boundaries according
to the creed and ritual of their sainted and heroic forefathers. This grand work was the last
preliminary to that church extension and missionary revival which the era of emancipation made
possible to the Vaudois Church, and which Beckwith had so long eagerly and clearly anticipated.

                         CHAPTER XV.

The first exercise of evangelical liberty accorded to the Vaudois Church was shown in the attempt
to preach the gospel and establish a place of Protestant worship, at what, in point of geographical
nearness, was the neighbouring city, but not in the past the neighbourly city of Pinerolo.
The work was, however, accomplished chiefly by the munificence of American Protestants. Then
came the opening of the edifice, which so worthily represents the Vaudois cause in Turin. Beckwith
took a very energetic part in this important work. But the actual modern mission work of the
Vaudois Church may be said to have begun in May, 1849, when Professor Malan preached in the
temple at St. Giovanni (for the first time for centuries past) the gospel in the Italian language.

The Count Guiccardini and some other persons of social position at Florence and its neighbourhood
joined the Vaudois Church in 1850. The same year a Vaudois missionary was appointed to Turin,
chiefly by the liberality of two English gentlemen, Messrs. Brewin and Milsom. In 1851 a great
many refugees, for conscience' sake, from Florence (the result of evangelistic labours there),
fled to Turin and swelled the numbers of the Vaudois congregation.

Also on the evening of the day on which was laid the foundation of the new temple, Mazzarella,
a Neapolitan advocate, deputy of parliament, and judge of the court of appeal at Genoa, was
one of ten catechumens received into the membership of the Vaudois Church.

At the same time the gospel was finding its way into Genoa, a city devoted to Mariolatry. On
the very day on which the Table decided to send M. Geymonat from Turin to work in Genoa, they
received an application by letter from Genoa to admit to their communion and ministry a very
distinguished ex-priest of Rome. This was no other than Dr. De Sanctis, rector of the Magdalen
and professor of theology, &c., at Rome. Excepting during a short period, to which I need not
refer, the connection thus begun between Dr. De Sanctis and the Vaudois continued until his
lamented death on the last day of December, 1869. But there are two points I will allude to.
First, the incidental means of his conversion. This was by a little treatise put into his hands
at a time when he was preparing a series of lectures in defence of the decrees of the Council
of Trent as compared with the word of God.

Secondly, the ground on which he sought admission into the Vaudois Church. In the letter addressed
to the Table, dated August 17th, 1852, he states that he had abandoned the Church of Rome for
nearly five years, and from the moment of his separation until then his thoughts "always turned
to the Church of the Valleys, because he recognized it as the true, primitive, apostolic Italian
Church." "During these five years," he adds, "I have lived among Christians who have proposed
to me many times, with a view to my temporal advantage, that I should join some church; but
I have always refused, thinking that an Italian, sincerely seeking the good of his compatriots,
should not belong to any other church than the ancient Italian Church." I have transcribed
these words, because I feel strongly their importance as coming from one so well able to estimate
the value of the Vaudois in its past history and its adaptation to the necessities and opportunities
of evangelizing that country so much needing the gospel of Christ--the Italy of to-day. It
seems to me that it is for this very purpose that the little community confined within so narrow
a space, apart from the more populous and frequented parts of Europe, has been preserved, in
spite of so many attempts at extermination. What the seven thousand who did not bow the knee
to Baal were to the rest of Israel, so it would seem that the faithful few in the valleys of
Piedmont are intended to be in reference to that new kingdom of Italy, of which they form one
of the most ancient provinces. And the whole attitude and character of the Church of the Valleys
confirms this feeling. They can appeal to their brother Italians as no foreigners can. Their
very sufferings give them a right which cannot be ignored. Mazzarella eloquently acknowledged
this when he visited La Torre. Again, by the removal of their college to Florence; their literary
enterprise in such publications as the Amico di Casa, Amico Dei Fanculli, La Rivista Christiana;
the talent, zeal, and organizing power of their missionary agency, they show themselves fully
alive to the privileged responsibilities of their position in Italy, and fully entitled to
the hearty confidence and liberal support of all who desire the supremacy of evangelic truth
in that land which has been so long the head quarters of the papacy!

The following statement of agencies will confirm my assertion:--

-----------+-------------------+------------------+----+----+----+----+----
DISTRICT.  |   STATION.        |     AGENTS.      Pastors.
           |                   |                  |   Evangelists.
           |                   |                  |    |  Communicants.
           |                   |                  |    |    | Day Scholars.
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    Sunday
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |   Scholars.
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
-----------+-------------------+------------------+----+----+----+----+----
PIEDMONT   |Susa               |Sig. A. Castioni  | .. |  1 | 14 |  0 | ..
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Courmayeur         |Sig. F. Costabel  | .. |  1 | 17 | 15 | ..
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Aosta and Vallata  |Sig. S. Girardone | .. |  1 | 19 | 11 |  9
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Ivrea and        } |                  |    |    |    |    |
           |   neighbourhood } |Rev. Daniel Revel |  1 | .. | 70 | .. | 15
  ,,       |Castelrosso-     } |                  |    |    |    |    |
           |   Verolengo     } |                  |    |    |    |    |
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Pietra Marazzi     |Sig. T. Pugno     | .. |  1 | 24 |  6 |  4
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Monte Castello   } |Sig. Rüggle       | .. |  1 | 22 | 26 | 18
  ,,       |Pecetto          } |                  |    |    |    |    |
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Torino             |Rev. Benjamin Pons|  1 | .. |108 |230 |190
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Pinerolo           |Rev. Philip Cardon|  1 | .. |110 | 49 | 35
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
LIGURIA    |Genoa              |Rev. Mattheo      |  1 | .. |150 | 50 | 75
           |                   |   Prochet        |    |    |    |    |
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |San Pier d'Arena   |Rev. A. B. Tron   |  1 | .. | 22 | 25 | 10
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Favale             |Sig. Stefano      | .. |  1 | 27 | 19 | 13
           |                   |   Cereghino      |    |    |    |    |
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
LOMBARDY   |Milan              |Rev. Jn. David    |  1 | .. |125 | 20 | 65
           |                   |   Turin          |    |    |    |    |
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Como and         } |Rev. Daniel Gay   |  1 | .. | 42 | 17 | 13
  ,,       |   Val d'Intelvi } |                  | .. | .. | 28 | .. | ..
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Brescia and      } |                 }|  1 | .. | 42 | .. | 17
  ,,       |   Castiglione   } |Rev. John Pons(1)}| .. |    | 16 | .. |  6
           |   delle Stiviere} |                 }|    |    |    |    |
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Guidizzolo         |Sig. P. Forneron  | .. |  1 | 13 | 18 | 24
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
VENETIA    |Venice             |Rev. John B.      |  1 | .. |225 |103 | 96
           |                   |   Pons(2)        |    |    |    |    |
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Verona             |Rev. John Pons    |  1 | .. | 40 | 12 | 18
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
EMILIA     |Guastalla          |Rev. B. Gardiol   |  1 |    | 51 | 28 | 26
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
THE MARCHES|Ancona             |Sigs. Calvino &   | .. |  2 | 30 | .. | ..
           |                   |   Vittorini      |    |    |    |    |
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
COMARCA    |Rome               |{Rev. John Ribetti|  1 | .. | 68 | 76 | 45
           |                   |{Rev. Henry Meille|  1 | .. |    |    |
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
NEAPOLITAN |Naples             |{Rev. M. Devita   |  1 | .. |150 |129 | 40
 TERRITORY |                   |{Sig. Henry Tron  | .. |  1 |    |    |
  ,,       |Fragneto           |{                 | .. | .. |  8 | .. | ..
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |San Bartolommeo    |Sig. Falletti     | .. |  1 | 14 | .. | ..
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
SICILY     |Catania            |{Rev. Emilio Long}|  1 |  1 | 50 | 30 | 40
           |                   |{Sig. A. Bellecci}|    |    |    |    |
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
           |                   |{Rev. Augustus   }|    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Messina            |{   Malan        }|  1 |  1 | 93 | 20 | 34
           |                   |{Sig. G. G. Trom }|    |    |    |    |
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Palermo            |{Rev. John S. Kay}|  1 |  1 | 67 | 78 |36
           |                   |{Sig. E. Bosio   }|    |    |    |    |
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Trabia             |Sig. S. Trapani   | .. |  1 |  7 | 44 | 24
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Trapani            |Sig. G. Fasulo    | .. |  1 |  2 | .. | 15
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Riesi              |{Rev. E. Long,   }|  1 | .. | .. | .. | ..
           |                   |{    temporarily }|    |    |    |    |
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
           |                   |{Rev. Auguste    }|    |    |    |    |
           |                   |{  Meille, Rev.  }|    |    |    |    |
TUSCANY    |Florence           |{  Professors    }|  4 | .. | 52 |120 | 38
           |                   |{  Geymonat, A.  }|    |    |    |    |
           |                   |{  Revel, and E. }|    |    |    |    |
           |                   |{  Comba         }|    |    |    |    |
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Pisa               |Rev. P. Weitzecker|  1 | .. | 60 | 26 | 20
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
           |                   |{Supplied from   }|    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Lucca              |{   Florence     }|    | .. | 38 | 22 |  8
           |                   |{   temporarily  }|    |    |    |    |
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Leghorn            |Rev. P. Rostagno  |  1 | .. | 78 |236 |130
           |                   |                  |    |    |    |    |
  ,,       |Rio Marina, Elba   |Rev. S. Bonnetto  |  1 | .. | 70 |158 | 22
-----------+-------------------+------------------+----+----+----+----+----
           |40 Stations.       |                  | 24 | 16 |1952|1568|1086
-----------+-------------------+------------------+----+----+----+----+----

From this it will be seen that the Waldensian Church has at this moment forty stations and
forty missionaries labouring in Italy and Sicily, of whom twenty-four are ordained ministers
who have attended the college curriculum of nine years required by the Waldensian Church, four
are probationers who have also attended their whole college course, and only wait till their
year of probation as missionaries has expired to be also ordained, and the other twelve are
lay evangelists, or schoolmaster evangelists, who have given satisfactory proof of their piety
and ability to teach. The number of day schools instituted in connection with these mission
stations is fifty-eight, taught by fifty-nine teachers, and attended by 1,568 pupils, according
to the return made to the Synod in August, though I am inclined to think that there has been
an increase in the number since then. There are thirty-eight Sabbath schools, at which there
has been an attendance of 1,086 scholars, the greater number of whom are children of parents
still professing Catholicism. The congregations begin to recognise the obligation of doing
something to support divine ordinances among themselves, and this year they have contributed
to the funds of the Evangelization Commission the sum of 21,217,84 lires, about £848 sterling,
being upwards of £400 sterling more than last year. The number of communicants up to the middle
of August was 1,952, and that of catechumens 214, while the number of hearers was then stated
at Sabbath worship at a maximum of 3,220. This is a brief account of the mission-work of the
Waldensian Church in Italy, apart altogether from the pastoral and educational work carried
on in the fifteen parishes of the valleys, and in the college of La Tour, which I have not
time to enlarge on at present.

But whilst I desire to evoke the sympathy of English-speaking Christians everywhere on behalf
of the Italian mission-work of the Waldensian Church, my chief object in sending out this little
volume has been to call attention to some wants of the Vaudois in their own home-field. It
is delightful to an English visitor to those valleys to recount the long lines of deserved
connection between his own country and this Goshen of the Alps--a line reaching from the days
of our first Charles, strengthening visibly during the time of Cromwell, revived under William
and Mary, and Ann, continuing still through the time of the Georges; though suspended for awhile
by the interference of European warfare, yet again rekindled by the energy and eloquence of
Gilly, expanded and deepened by the devotedness of Beckwith, and other benefactors following
in his train too numerous for us to register, but not one of them ignored or forgotten by the
grateful valley-men benefitted by their Christian kindness. Apart from the institutions to
which I have already adverted, there is another which meets the eye of the visitor at La Torre,
as he turns up the Val Angrogna. This is the Vaudois Orphan Asylum and Industrial School, established
by the British Ladies' Association, the secretary of which is Miss Hathaway, Cheltenham. As
the title indicates, the orphans are taught useful industries, such as straw-hat plaiting,
lace and needle-work. Articles thus made are disposed of for the benefit of the institution,
which provides a home for sixty children. Very great was the need of such a place in the valleys,
and deeply encouraging have been the fruits of this work of faith and labour of love. Not to
extend my little book too far beyond its original design, viz., that of a "handy-book on the
valleys brought down to date," I can only add that it seems to me that the chief wants of the
church in her own valleys are--first, a better sustenance for her pastors; the very circumstance
that those pastors are now expected to take their places side by side with the foremost men
of other churches in the Continent of Europe for the defence and spread of God's truth justifies
this plea, if it were otherwise weak, which it is not.

Secondly, help in the restoration of her ancient sanctuaries, and one or two additional ones.
One thing that struck me as a painful void was, the absence of any public monument of the past
events of the wonderful history of the Vaudois. It is true, in one sense, that the whole place
is a museum of relics; that every rock has some thrilling tale, every mountain slope and hill-side
graven upon it the memory of saints and martyrs. Yet I confess that those who do remember what
has passed, and that those who wish that generations yet to come may know the history of these
valleys, may well desire that some external tokens stood out to impress the passer-by with
suitable emotion. I had this feeling most strongly as I reached the Shiloh of the valleys--the
Pra del Tor.

Our route lay through the luxuriant and lovely Val Angrogna, which now rejoiced in the fascinating
charms of springtide. Everywhere the eye rested on scenes of softness and beauty, the turf
not unlike that which gives such a charm to an English landscape, while the undulating slopes
were covered with an unutterable profusion of flowers. As we advanced higher up the valley
we were strongly reminded of the words of a French writer: "Sometimes in leaving a gorge our
attention was absorbed by a beautiful meadow. A strange intermixture of wild and cultivated
nature met our eye everywhere, betraying the hand of man where one would have thought it impossible
for him to penetrate. By the side of a cavern we find houses; branches of the vine where we
only looked for brambles; vineyards in desert places, and fields amidst the overhanging rocks."
All this is true beyond exaggeration, especially after you leave the village of Angrogna, with
its parsonage-house in the most picturesque situation of any we encountered. About half an
hour from this spot the scenery becomes wildly grand, especially as you draw nigh to the torrent.
On one side is the lofty Vandalin, and on the other precipitous rocks; while in the narrow
valley the stream rushes down with its roar and foam, forming beautiful cascades, and reminding
you of some of the grandest scenery in Switzerland. But, greatly as I was delighted with the
topographical interest of my journey, yet I would not forget that it was the people and their
fathers' deeds and sufferings that had led me to undertake this rather fatiguing enterprise;
and long before I reached the Barricata, or Pra del Torno, I had a great enjoyment in being
taken by a Vaudois mechanic, who left his work at Angrogna, and would have no acknowledgment
but my thanks, in order to show me one of those wonderful hiding-places in the very heart of
the mountains, where the God of the hill and of the Vaudois so effectively succoured his people.
The particular cavern I was shown was most difficult of access, not only by its seclusion,
but also on other grounds; the entrance would only admit one or two persons at a time; but
once within there seemed space enough for about a hundred persons. Here I understood large
numbers of the persecuted Vaudois had found a refuge and a sanctuary in its holiest and happiest
sense. The words, "He shall dwell on high: his place of defence shall be the munitions of rocks,"
came to my thoughts with a freshness and fulness of meaning not previously realized. But the
testimony of this valley is everywhere, "The Lord fought for Israel." The next point of remarkable
interest shows this, viz., the Barricata, which is a kind of entrance to the enclosure known
as Pra del Torno. At this spot the rocks on either side come down close to the mountain, so
that only a mere ledge of rock remains as a path. Consequently, a small number of men could
at this point drive back a host; and here, during the persecutions of the fifteenth, sixteenth,
and seventeenth centuries, the contemptuous foes of the Vaudois met with humiliating and disastrous
repulses, while the Vaudois themselves escaped comparatively unhurt. This circumstance led
the enemy, during the persecution of 1560, under the Count de la Trinita, to place his men
on the heights above Roccamanente; but his one thousand two hundred men were successfully driven
back by less than one-twentieth of that number of the Vaudois; and when he renewed the attack
with scornful assurance of victory, a few days later, the Vaudois, who were engaged in prayer
at the time, having despatched six of their number, who were slingers, to a commanding point
above the assailants, obtained a still more triumphant victory, without loss on their own side,
but with terrible slaughter to the enemy, including eight of his chief officers.

Time fails to recount all that might be said of these celebrated regions. I must, however,
make passing mention of the beautiful mountain peak a little higher up on the right hand as
you approach Pra del Torno, i.e., La Vachera. On the 11th of June, 1655, after the Piedmontese
troops were unable to force the Barricata, though they tried from 5 a.m. to 3 p.m., they advanced
towards La Vachera. The Vaudois went up higher. Thinking this to be a retreat, the Piedmontese
soldiers exclaimed, "Advance, wreck of Janavello!" The Vaudois responded, "Advance, wreck of
San Segonzo!" accompanied by such a shower of stones that the soldiers fled in greatest confusion,
leaving behind them two hundred dead, and carrying away more than twice that number of wounded.
Indeed, this defeat was so decisive that the persecutors were constrained to acknowledge "God
was with the Barbets," and that whereas "formerly the wolves eat the dogs (i.e., barbetti),
now the dogs (barbetti) eat the wolves."

But we now come to the goal of our journey to-day, Pra del Torno, a very sanctuary, embosomed
amidst the everlasting hills, the site of the ancient college of the Vaudois clergy, from whence
they went forth to preach the doctrines of a pure faith even before Wickliffe rose as the morning
star of the Reformation in our own land. Nature is still there in all its grandeur; but I must
confess to a feeling of sadness as I beheld a church under the patronage of the Virgin Mary
in these valleys, where so much noble blood had been shed for the maintenance of the truth
as it is in Jesus, but no place of worship for the descendants of the men who were ready to
die, but not ready to dishonour God by participating in a worship contrary to His blessed Word.
And my regret was not lessened when I learnt that the evangelical Vaudois has to make an eight
hours' journey to his nearest temple, and that his pastor would have a journey of similar character
to make to the sick and aged members of his flock in this secluded spot. I found a schoolroom,
erected by General Beckwith, in a dilapidated state, and the poor old schoolmaster very infirm
from sickness and age. My desire, therefore, is to raise funds either to greatly improve the
schoolroom, or, better still, to erect a neat temple in this consecrated spot, so as at once
to commemorate the piety and heroism of the dead, and to provide for the wants of the living.
The pastor of the parish, the Rev. J. Durand Canton, has informed me how great a boon such
a place would be. The Table have also assured me of their hearty co-operation. Several subscriptions
have been kindly promised. F. A. Bevan, Esq., of the firm of Messrs. Barclay, Bevan, and Co.,
54, Lombard Street, has kindly consented to receive donations for the object: they may also
be sent to me.

                INDEX OF PLACES AND PERSONS.

Amadeus II., 44, 84-91.

Angrogna, Vale of, 125.

Arnaud, Henri--
  His birth and early life, 63.
  Exploits at Germano, Salabertrand, Villaro, 69, 73.
  Privation of himself and troops, 75, 76.
  Banishment, 87.
  Latter days and death, 88, 89.

Azeglio, Marquis, 101.

Balsille--
  Description of, 70, 78.
  Siege of, 80, 81.
  Escape from, 82, 83.

Beckwith, General, 109-112.

Barthélemi, martyr, 35.

Brandenburg, Elector of, 85.

Bricherasio, 4.

Bucer, 34.

Calabria, Persecutions in, 33.

Castelluzzo, Crag of, 45.

Castrocaro, Signal death of, 43.

Catinat, Marshal, 80, 81.

Cavour, Count, 101.

Charles Felix, Bigotry of, 97.

Charles Albert, Justice of, 98, 99.

Children kidnapped, 43, 90.

Claude, Bishop of Turin, 17.

Colonies of the Vaudois, 31.

Cromwell espouses the cause of the Vaudois, 50.

Cutti, Count of, as a ruler, 96.

De la Trinité, Count, 39.

Ecomlapadius, 34.

Edicts of 1686, 58.

Elector Palatine, Noble letter of, 42.

Emancipation, 101.

Emmanuel, Philibert, 10, 38, 43.

Exile of the Vaudois, 61.

Earthquake, Severe, 95.

Farel, 34.

Fequières, Marquis of, plants a cannon on Mont Guignivert, 82.

Fog, Providential, 27, 82, 83.

Gastaldo, Edict of, 45.

Geneva--
  City of, kindness of to the exiles, 61.
  Lake of, 65.

Gilly, Rev. Dr., 107, 108.

Jahier, 54.

Janavello, 54.
  Bravery of, 56.
  Banished, 57, 64.

Jerome, 15, 16.

Juliano, Colonel of, rout of soldiers, 25, 72.

La Torre, Pelice, 44, 52.

Leger, 44, 46.

Leidet, Pastor of Guigot, martyred, 60.

Louis XIV. of France, an inveterate persecutor of the Vaudois, 86.

Maggiore, Lago, 1.

Maiden's Rock, The, 40.

Margaret of Navarre, 42.

Milton's Sonnet, 50.

Monks of Pinerolo, 39.

Marengo, Battle of, 94.

Mont Blanc, 67.

Mont Cenis, 68.

Nantes, Edict of, revoked, 58.

Noir of Mondovi, Remarkable death of, 26.

Otho, Emperor of Germany, 23.

Outburst of Romish intolerance at the opening of Vaudois Temple in
     Turin, 3.

Pascal, Jean Louis, 33, 34.

Persecution of 1686, 46, 60.

Poulat, Captain, 83.

Pra del Torre, 26, 127.

Prali, 71.

Popes--
  Silvester, 11.
  Zachary, 16.
  Innocent VIII. 24.
  Innocent XII. 86.
  Lucius, 28.
  Pius IV., presiding at a martyrdom, 34.
  Gregory, 16, 97.

Re-baptism of a child prevented, 35.

Rodoret Temple, 118.
  Avalanche at, 117.

Return glorious, first Sunday at home, 70.

Refugees met at Milan, 85.

Remarkable supply of food, 79.

Salabertrand, Capture of bridge, 69.

San Secondo, 4.

Sartoire, Nicolas, martyred, 36.

Seyssel, Claude, 11.

Sibaud, Oath of, 73.

Solaro, Count of, 3.

St. Germano, Cruelties at, 56, 57.

Synods--
  Remarkable, 19.
  Angrogna, 35.

Turin--
  Opening of the Vaudois Temple at, 3.
  Proclamation of Statuto, 101-103.

Truchet, a persecutor, his death, 43.

Temples built, 34.

Vaudois Church--
  Its antiquity, 9, 13, 24, 94.
  Creed, 14.
  Organization, 15, 22.
  Missions, 29, 31, 122.

Victor Emmanuel I., 97.

Viso, Monte, 4.

Vigilantius, 15, 16.

Varaille, Geoffrey, martyr, 36.

Waldensian loyalty to House of Savoy, 1.

Waldensian Pedlars, 29-31.

Wurtemburg, Duke of, 88.

William III., 63.

Zeal of Seremius, Bishop of Marseilles, against images, 16.

                 NEW WORKS & NEW EDITIONS.

                        PUBLISHED BY

                     JOHN F. SHAW & Co.,

                  48, PATERNOSTER ROW, E.C.

                   WORKS BY EMILY S. HOLT.

ROBIN TREMAYNE. A Tale of the Marian Persecution.

     Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Frontispiece, Five Shillings.

     "The book is extremely well written."--Athenæum.

     "As charming as it is instructive."--Record.

THE WELL IN THE DESERT. An Old Legend of the House of Arundel.

     Small 8vo, with Frontispiece, cloth extra, Two Shillings and
     Sixpence.

     "A tale of the Middle Ages, showing that there were beautiful
     gleams of light in those dark days even. It is a touching
     story."--Watchman.

ISOULT BARRY of Wynscote. A Tale of Tudor Times.

     Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Frontispiece, Five Shillings.

     "The book is as charming as it is profitable, and cannot be
     read without pleasure, nor laid down without regret."--The
     Christian.

ASHCLIFFE HALL. A Tale of the Last Century.

     New Edition. Crown 8vo, with Frontispiece, cloth extra, Five
     Shillings.

     "'Ashcliffe Hall' seems to us to be a remarkable example of a
     really good religious novel."--English Independent.

SISTER ROSE; or, The Eve of St. Bartholomew.

     New Edition. Crown 8vo, with Frontispiece, cloth extra, Five
     Shillings.

     "Young folks will read it with a relish, and so will older ones
     too. The story is well conceived, and well written."--Literary
     World.

MISTRESS MARGERY. A Tale of the Lollards.

     New Edition. Small 8vo, cloth extra, Three Shillings and
     Sixpence, with Frontispiece.

     "A page in history which our young men and maidens will do well
     to saturate with holy tears."--The Sword and the Trowel.

             BOOKS SUITABLE FOR PRESENTATION.

          Price Three Shillings and Sixpence each.

Pisgah Views; or, the Negative Aspects of Heaven.

     By Rev. O. WINSLOW, D.D. Crown 8vo, cloth extra.

Coming Events and the Coming King.

     By Rev. C. J. GOODHART, M.A., Rector of Wetherden. Crown 8vo,
     cloth extra.

     "The part on 'The Signs of the Times' is most suggestive and
     stirring."--Christian Age.

Occupy till I Come; or, Christian Work, its Responsibility and Privileges.

     By Rev. AUBREY C. PRICE, M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra.

     "A most useful book for young labourers for Christ."--The
     Christian.

Hidden Life: Memorials of J. Whitmore.

     By his Father, Rev. O. WINSLOW, D.D. New Edition, cloth extra,
     with Frontispiece.

Look and Live; or, Present Salvation for all who will Accept it.

     By Rev. JOHN CUMMING, D.D. Fcap. 8vo, cloth extra.

Teach us to Pray; being Experimental, Practical, and Doctrinal Observations on the Lord's Prayer.

     By Rev. JOHN CUMMING, D.D. Third Thousand. Fcap. 8vo, cloth
     extra.

     "This is a delightful volume."--Morning Advertiser.

The Atonement viewed Experimentally and Practically.

     By Rev. O. WINSLOW, D.D. Eighth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, cloth.

     "Its sound scriptural views, its pathetic appeals, its
     insinuating style, and its deep-toned piety, commend it to the
     candid attention of every awakened mind."--Eclectic Review.

          WORKS BY THE AUTHOR OF "LONELY LILY."

Price Eighteenpence each, cloth extra, with Illustrations.

Wandering May; or, Come unto Me.

Clarie's Little Charge. New Edition.

The Happy Land; or, Willie the Orphan. New Edition.

     "The peculiar charm of this author's books is the simplicity
     and clearness with which the gospel is set forth. Not only are
     they suitable for presents, but a blessing may be expected to
     rest upon the truth so lovingly expounded, as it is in these
     pleasant stories."--The Christian.

                        BY F. F. G.

   Price One Shilling and Sixpence, with Illustrations.

Polly and Winnie; or, the Story of the Good Samaritan.

     New Edition.

Little Nan; or, a Living Remembrance.

     New Edition.

     "Full of wide and useful teaching--written with a purpose, and
     well written."--Sunday School Teachers' Magazine.

 Price One Shilling each, cloth extra, with Frontispiece.

Lonely Lily.

     By M. L. C. New Edition.

     "Our boys, like most others, are not fond of dry books, but
     this they devoured greedily, and gave it their highest
     praise."--The Sword and the Trowel.

Twice Found; or, the Heavenly and the Earthly Father.

     By MARIANNE SMITH.

     "A touching little story, and well told."--The Christian.

Lucy's Life Story; or, Sunshine Without and Within.

     By J. K. A True Story.

We got Agate of Singing; or, "Jesus, Tender Shepherd, hear me." New Edition.

     "A narrative full of pathos and quiet power."--Sunday School
     Teacher.

Isabella Hamilton, the Martyr. A Tale of the Sixteenth Century.

                 BOOKS FOR YOUNG PERSONS.

   Price Three Shillings and Sixpence each, cloth extra.

THE BOY'S WATCHWORD; Or, The Story of the Old Back Room.

     By J. HARRISON. Crown 8vo, with Illustrations, cloth extra.

          CONTENTS.

     The Boys.
     Out of the Quiet River.
     No Cross, no Crown.
     A Day in the City.
     The Lighthouse.
     Sydney's Choice.
     The Little Story-Teller.
     Shining Again.
     School.
     One Little Ship Astray.
     Home Again.
     The Victory.
     &c.
     &c.

     "A capital story for boys, and written in a style they are sure
     to be pleased with."--Rock.

     "It would not be easy to name a more suitable present to young
     people."--Christian Standard.

FOR CONSCIENCE' SAKE; or, Minnie Grey's Struggle.

     By the Author of "Alice Lee's Discipline," etc.

     "A pleasing, well-written tale, full of tender feeling and high
     principle--deserves hearty commendation."--Record.

MARCELLA OF ROME. A Tale of the Early Church.

     By F. EASTWOOD. Crown 8vo, with Illustrations, cloth extra.

          CONTENTS.

     Out Into the Night.
     Philip's Decision.
     Brother and Sister.
     The Storm Gathering.
     Cross instead of Crown.
     Marcella's Legacy.
     Life Among the Dead.
     Crown instead of Cross.
     The Price of Blood.
     Freedom in Chains.
     "Until the Morning."
     Gathered Threads.
     &c.
     &c.

     "No Christian, we think, will read it without receiving a fresh
     impetus to faith, hope, and love."--The Christian.

SUNLIGHT THROUGH THE MIST; Or, Practical Lessons drawn from the Lives of Good Men.

     By the Author of "Household Proverbs." New Edition.

GEOFFREY THE LOLLARD.

     By F. EASTWOOD. Crown 8vo, with Illustrations, cloth extra.

     "There is no class of literature more necessary for the young
     in the present day than the history of these times. This story
     is very touching."--Weekly Review.

               NEW SUNDAY BOOK BY A. L. O. E.

THE CHILDREN'S TABERNACLE; Or, Hand-work and Heart-work.

     By A. L. O. E., Author of "The Lost Jewel," etc.

     With Plain and Coloured Illustrations. Small 4to, cloth extra,
     Three Shillings and Sixpence.

            A WELCOME PRESENT TO THE LITTLE ONES.

THE OLD PICTURE BIBLE; Stories from the Life of Christ.

     By the Author of "Doing and Suffering," etc. Illustrated with
     48 Plain Engravings and 12 Coloured Plates. Small 4to, Three
     Shillings and Sixpence, cloth extra.

THE OLD PICTURE BIBLE; Or, Stories from Old Testament History.

     *** Two of the most attractive of the many Sunday Books for
     Children. To those who are seeking something to assist them in
     making the Sunday a happy day to their little ones, we most
     cordially recommend them.

THE LOST JEWEL. A Tale.

     By A. L. O. E., Author of "The Young Pilgrim," etc. New
     Edition, with Illustrations. Three Shillings and Sixpence.

     "Most earnestly do we recommend our readers to place 'The Lost
     Jewel' in their libraries."--British Mothers' Journal.

SCRIPTURE PICTURE PUZZLES.

     By A. L. O. E. Entirely New Series. In handsome Boxes, price
     One Shilling and Sixpence each; or in superior Boxes, Two
     Shillings and Sixpence each.

     Each of these Boxes contains four Scripture Picture Puzzles,
     with Story and Questions. The whole Nursery will find interest
     and enjoyment in the pleasant occupation afforded to all in
     these attractive Puzzles. Boxes already issued--Series 1 to 6
     and 8 and 9, price One Shilling and Sixpence each; or in
     superior Boxes, Two Shillings and Sixpence. Seventh Series,
     larger pictures, price Three Shillings and Sixpence.

             WORKS BY THE REV. O. WINSLOW, D.D.
           Incumbent of Emmanuel Church, Brighton.

          Price Five Shillings each, cloth extra.

The Fulness of Christ: As Unfolded in the Typical History of the Patriarch Joseph. Third Thousand.

     "The work is full of instructive teaching."--Church of England
     Magazine.

Personal Declension and Revival of Religion in the Soul.

     Fifth Edition. Price Five Shillings.

     "This is a book of rare excellence."--The Covenanter.

The Lord's Prayer: Its Spirit and its Teaching.

     Small 8vo, cloth extra. Price Five Shillings.

The Work of the Holy Spirit Viewed Experimentally and Practically.

     Eighth Edition, enlarged. Price Five Shillings.

Life in Jesus: A Memoir of Mrs. Mary Winslow.

     Twenty-Sixth Thousand, with Frontispiece. Price Five Shillings.

     Large Type Edition, Crown 8vo, Seven and Sixpence, cloth.

     "It is indeed a most precious addition to the stores of our
     Christian biography."--Evangelical Magazine.

Heaven Opened; or, Selections from the Correspondence of Mrs. Mary Winslow.

     Selected by her Son. Fcap. 8vo, cloth. Price Five Shillings.

   Price Four Shillings and Sixpence each, cloth extra.

Grace and Truth.

     Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, Four Shillings and Sixpence.

The Inner Life:

     Its Nature, Relapse, and Recovery. Fifth Edition, enlarged.
     Fcap. 8vo, Four Shillings and Sixpence.

           Price Half-a-Crown each, cloth extra.

"Our God for Ever and Ever."

     Imp. 32mo, cloth extra. Half-a-Crown.

          CONTENTS.

     The God of Love.
     The God of Hope.
     The God of Patience.
     The God of Comfort.
     The God of Bethel.
     The God of Grace.
     The God of Peace.
     The God of Holiness.
     The God of Light.
     This God is our God.

Emmanuel: God with Us; or, The Titles of Christ: their Teaching and Consolation.

     Imperial 32mo, cloth extra. Half-a-Crown.

The Tree of Life: Its Shade, Fruit, and Repose.

     Cloth extra. Half-a-Crown.

     We cordially commend this little work to our readers, who will
     find in it much precious fruit.

Born Again; or, from Grace to Glory.

     New Edition. Half-a-Crown.

     "The work is solemn and heart-searching."--Christian Witness.

The Man of God; or, Spiritual Religion Explained and Enforced.

     Third Thousand. Price Half-a-Crown.

     "It is a truly valuable Treatise, and is written in a manner
     which is no less pleasing than powerful."--Morning
     Advertiser.

Midnight Harmonies; or, Thoughts for the Season of Solitude and Sorrow.

     Seventeenth Thousand. Half-a-Crown.

     "The views of Divine truth are decidedly evangelical, and
     worthy of being placed on the pillow, not of the mourner only,
     but of many who need to be reminded of mourners."--Eclectic
     Review.

Divine Realities; or, Spiritual Reflections for the Saint and Sinner.

     Cloth extra, Half-a-Crown.

            NEW WORK BY REV. DONALD FRASER, D.D.

THE CHURCH OF GOD AND THE APOSTACY.

     Small 8vo. Cloth extra. Price Two Shillings and Sixpence.

     "A most valuable book. We cordially recommend it, and would, if
     possible, farther its extensive circulation."--The Christian.

QUICKLY RIPENED. Recollections of the late Jaspar Bolton.

     Small 8vo, cloth extra. With Portrait. Price Two Shillings and
     Sixpence.

     "It is truly helpful and strengthening to meet with such a book
     as this. We rejoice in the publication of such precious
     recollections."--The Christian.

SURE WORDS OF PROMISE.

     By the Author of "Doing and Suffering." Half-a-Crown.

     "We have not for some time fallen in with anything more
     suitable for bringing sunshine into the darkened chamber of the
     invalid."--Daily Review.

THE HIGHWAY OF HOLINESS; or, The Higher Christian Life.

     By Rev. C. GRAHAM. Small 8vo, cloth extra. Two Shillings and
     Sixpence.

     "We think it a valuable addition to the much and mixed teaching
     abroad on this solemn subject."--The Christian.

     "Full of earnest and devout truth."--English Independent.

THE SECRET SPRINGS.

     "All my fresh springs are in Thee." By the Author of "Copsley
     Annals," etc. Cloth antique. Half-a-Crown.

     "The chapters are short, but full of matter, displaying a mind
     thoroughly conversant with the Word of God, and well able to
     bring out some of its most precious and comforting
     truths."--Record.

SPRINGS IN THE DESERT FOR CHRIST'S FLOCK.

     By M. J. H. P. Cloth antique. Half-a-Crown.

     "The book is well suited to the pocket and to the private
     library, and comprises many points in which believers are
     deeply interested."--Christian Witness.

    WORKS FOR YOUNG PERSONS, SUITABLE FOR SUNDAY READING.

     Price Two Shillings and Sixpence each, post-free.

THE WELL IN THE DESERT. An Old Legend of the House of Arundel.

     By E. S. HOLT. Small 8vo, with Frontispiece. Price Half-a-Crown.

          CONTENTS.

     My Lady's Bower is Swept.
     Hidden Treasure.
     Guy of Ashridge.
     Mother Joan.
     The Story of Isabel.
     Elaine.
     In the Cell of the Grey Lady.
     The Veil Uplifted.
     Together.
     Four Years Later.

     "The story is very touching, well written, and attractively
     illustrates the power of the Gospel as known in England five
     hundred years ago."--Evangelical Magazine.

MAY LANE. A Tale of the Sixteenth Century.

     Small 8vo, with a Frontispiece, extra cloth.

     "An invaluable little book for the young."--Daily Express.

TOM CARTER; or, Ups and Downs in Life.

     A Book for Young Lads. By the Author of "England's Daybreak;"
     "Working Man's Fireside," etc.

SHADOWS AND SUNSHINE, AND OTHER TALES.

     By the Author of "Helen Dundas; or, the Pastor's Wife." With
     Frontispiece, small 8vo, cloth.

STORIES FOR BOYS.

     By J. HOPE MONCRIEFF. Small 8vo, with Frontispiece.

CHRIST THE ROCK; or, Aids to Young Disciples.

     With Introduction. By Rev. H. BOARDMAN, D.D. Cloth extra.

RILLS FROM THE FOUNTAIN OF LIFE.

     Loving Words to the Young. By Rev. Dr. NEWTON. Cloth extra.

THE BEST THINGS.

     "Christian mothers will find ample material in these works for
     many pleasant Sunday afternoons with their children, and
     teachers a store of illustrative and interesting
     matter."--Record.

Christian Armour; or, Truth for the Times.

     Publishing Monthly, price 4d.; post free 5s. per Annum.

     Edited by Rev. C. GRAHAM. Volume for 1872, Price Five
     Shillings. Cloth. Containing the following Works, with many
     other valuable Papers:--

THE CHURCH OF GOD AND THE APOSTACY.
                              By Rev. DONALD FRASER, D.D.

OCCUPY TILL I COME.           By Rev. AUBREY C. PRICE, M.A.

COMING EVENTS AND THE COMING KING.
                              By Rev. C. J. GOODHART, M.A.

THE HIGHER CHRISTIAN LIFE.    By Rev. C. GRAHAM.

BRIGHT BLUE. By the Author of "God's Tenth," etc.

                IMPORTANT MINISTERIAL HELPS.

Studies for the Pulpit.

     Containing over Three Hundred Sermons and outlines, with
     Biblical Illustrations, Counsels for Preachers, etc. Seventh
     Edition, complete in One Volume, pp. 1,040. Price Nine
     Shillings.

     "Many preachers who have not all the leisure they desire may
     consult it with advantage."--Watchman.

     "Addresses itself to a large class, and meets their
     wants."--Nonconformist.

Notes on the Book of Genesis; with some Essays and Addresses.

     By the late Rev. CHARLES HARGROVE, Collected and Edited by his
     son, Rev. JOSEPH HARGROVE, M.A. Three Volumes. Price Eighteen
     Shillings, cloth. Second Edition revised.

The Church of the First-born; Being a Few Thoughts on Christian Unity.

     By the Rev. W. PENNEFATHER, Mildmay Park. Imperial 16mo. Price
     Half-a-Crown.

               WORKS BY REV. O. WINSLOW, D.D.

          Price Seven Shillings each, post-free.

No Condemnation in Christ Jesus.

     As Unfolded in the Eighth Chapter of Romans. Sixth Thousand.
     Post 8vo, cloth.

The Glory of the Redeemer in his Person and Work.

     Sixth Edition. 8vo, cloth.

     "The work is richly evangelical, highly spiritual, and
     scripturally practical."--Christian Witness.

           DAILY READINGS BY REV. O. WINSLOW, D.D.

Morning Thoughts; or, Daily Walking with God.

     A Portion for Every Day in the Year. January to June; July to
     December. Imperial 32mo, price Two Shillings and Sixpence each,
     cloth.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Spiritual Casket of Daily Bible Meditations.

     By JOHN EVANGELIST GOSSNER. With an Introduction by the Rev. E.
     H. BICKERSTETH. 18mo, cloth extra, gilt, bevelled boards, Three
     Shillings.

     "This work appears to me eminently worthy of its name. I
     confidently anticipate for it as large a sale in this country
     as in Germany."--Introduction by Rev. E. H. Bickersteth.

Echoes of Apostolic Teaching:

     Selections from the Family Expositions of the late Rev. E.
     Bickersteth. Edited by a DAUGHTER. Small 8vo, Five Shillings,
     cloth.

     "They embody many rich devotional thoughts, which we are sure
     will be most acceptable to those who desire the sincere milk of
     the word, that they may grow thereby."--Church of England
     Magazine.

Christ our Life; or, Scenes from our Lord's Passion and Ministry.

     By the Rev. JOHN BAILLIE, Author of the "Life of Hewitson,"
     "Adelaide Newton," etc., etc. Small 8vo, cloth, Five Shillings.

     "The work is calculated to be of exceeding great
     good."--British Standard.

             NEW WORKS BY REV. O. WINSLOW, D.D.

    Cloth extra, price One Shilling and Sixpence each.

THUS SAITH THE LORD; or, Words of Divine Love.

THE LORD MY PORTION; Or, Daily Need Divinely Supplied.

CONSIDER JESUS; Or, Thoughts for Duty, Service, and Suffering.

CHRIST IS EVER WITH YOU.

     Illustrated by Experiences drawn from Christian Life.

     "Three precious little books, full of comfort and encouragement
     to those who are followers of the Lamb."

       *       *       *       *       *

UNLEAVENED BREAD; or, Food for the New Life.

     By T. S. HENRY, G. F. TRENCH, J. R. CALDWELL, and others. Price
     One Shilling and Sixpence, cloth.

WAYMARKS OF THE PILGRIMAGE; Or, Teaching by Trials.

     By G. B. CHEEVER, D.D., New Edition, 18mo, One Shilling, sewed;
     One Shilling and Sixpence, cloth.

PILGRIM LAYS. Songs for the Christian Pilgrim.

     32mo. First Series. Cloth, One Shilling and Sixpence. Second
     Series. Cloth, price One Shilling and Sixpence.

THE INVALID'S COMPANION; Or, Words of Comfort for the Afflicted.

     12mo, One Shilling and Sixpence, cloth limp.

     "It is a fitting companion for the sick-room, and will prove
     very suggestive of those thoughts most desired for seasons of
     trial."--Christian Record.

PRECIOUS STONES FROM A STRANGE QUARRY.

     By Rev. J. KNAPP, St. John's, Portsea. One Shilling and
     Sixpence.

SCRIPTURAL TRUTHS.

     By B. W. NEWTON. A Series of 24 Papers in Packets. Price
     Sixpence and One Shilling, or in volume, sewed, Sixpence; limp
     cloth, One Shilling.

                 STORIES OF THE REFORMERS.

    Price Five Shillings each, cloth extra, post-free.

THE STORY OF MARTIN LUTHER.

     Edited by Miss WHATELY, Dublin. Fourth Edition.

     "The volume will deservedly become a general favourite, and
     should find a place in every school or parochial
     library."--The Bookseller.

                    By the Same Author.

THE LIFE OF JOHN DE WYCLIFFE.

     With a Sketch of the Ancient British Church and the English
     Reformation. Five Shillings, cloth extra.

THE STORY OF ULRICH ZWINGLE AND THE RISE OF THE SWISS REFORMATION.

     Second Edition. Five Shillings, cloth extra.

     "The story of Zwingle is singularly attractive in all its
     incidents, and the history is admirably sustained."--Christian
     Observer.

THE REPRESENTATIVE WOMEN OF SCRIPTURE; Or, Lessons for Maidens, Wives, and Mothers.

     By Rev. W. LANDELLS, D.D. Small 8vo, with Illustrations, Five
     Shillings.

            PRETTY PRESENTS IN HANDSOME BOXES.

                 Price Eighteenpence each.

SCRIPTURE QUESTIONING CARDS.

     By Mrs. CARUS WILSON. A New and Improved Series, in Two Parts,
     sold separately.

SCRIPTURE ACROSTICS. A Sabbath Pastime for Young Persons.

     By Lady SCOTT.

PLEASANT STORIES FOR THE YOUNG.

     By the Author of "Old Peter Pious;" "Have you----?" etc.

ACROSTICS. Historical, Geographical, and Biographical.

     By Lady SCOTT.

                 TO SUNDAY-SCHOOL TEACHERS.

Scripture Object Lessons and Outline Teaching for Sunday Schools.

     By Rev. H. C. MCCOOK. Small 8vo, Three Shillings and Sixpence.

     A Prospectus with specimens of this invaluable help to
     Sunday-School Teachers sent post-free on application.

     "Teachers will find the volume exceedingly useful."--Sunday
     School Teachers' Magazine.

     "We earnestly urge every Teacher to read this book, and make
     use of it, it is invaluable."--Sword and Trowel.

     "Mr. McCook has the true idea of educational training, and has
     furnished some admirable expositions of his idea in his
     'Outline of Teaching.' To Sunday School Teachers and heads of
     families, his chapters cannot fail to prove highly
     valuable."--Evangelical Magazine.

     "We strongly recommend this work to all who are desirous of
     interesting the minds of children while they impart to them a
     knowledge of Scripture facts and principles."--Watchman.

Expositions on the Epistles of the New Testament.

     By Rev. CHARLES DALLAS MARSTON, M.A., Vicar of St. Paul's,
     South Kensington. Price Three Shillings and Sixpence, cloth.

     "It is really refreshing to alight upon a book like this.... We
     most heartily urge its circulation as a most valuable help to
     the study of the Epistles of the New Testament."--Sunday
     Teachers' Treasury.

Self: Its Dangers, Doubts, and Duties.

     By the Rev. ROBERT MAGUIRE, Incumbent of Clerkenwell. Impl.
     32mo, cloth extra, price Two Shillings and Sixpence.

     "It is a book of life as well as doctrine, exhibiting example
     as well as precept."--British Standard.

The Bible: What is it? Whence came it? How came it? Wherefore came it? To whom came it? How
should we treat it?

     By A. J. MORRIS. Third Thousand. One Shilling, sewed; Two
     Shillings, cloth.

     "Clear in style, candid in the statement of difficulties, and
     direct in the answers."--Athenæum.

            WORKS BY THE REV. E. H. BICKERSTETH.

The Blessed Dead: What does Scripture reveal of their State before the Resurrection?

     By Rev. E. H. BICKERSTETH, Incumbent of Christ Church,
     Hampstead. Third Thousand, price Ninepence, limp cloth.

The Risen Saints: What does Scripture reveal of their State and Employment?

     Price One Shilling and Sixpence, limp cloth.

Hades and Heaven; or, What does Scripture reveal of the Estate and Employments of the Blessed
Dead and the Risen Saints?

     Small 8vo, Two Shillings, cloth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lectures on the Epistles of John.

     By WILLIAM LINCOLN. Second Thousand. Revised and Considerably
     Enlarged by the Author. Cloth, Two Shillings; gilt extra, Two
     Shillings and Sixpence.

Addresses by Lord Radstock.

     Third Thousand. Cloth, boards, One Shilling; gilt, One Shilling
     and Sixpence; roan, super, Two Shillings and Sixpence.

Select Pieces. Series One to Four.

     By Rev. O. WINSLOW, D.D. Cloth gilt, One Shilling each.

     These choice volumes, containing some of the gems of Dr.
     Winslow's writings, are admirably adapted for the pocket
     companions for the Christian reader.

The Lost Sunbeam: a Ray of Comfort to the Bereaved.

     By the Rev. P. B. POWER, Christ Church, Worthing, Author of
     "The 'I Wills' of the Psalms," etc. Square 16mo, with steel
     Frontispiece, Three Shillings, cloth.

     "The book is as apples of gold in pictures of silver.... We are
     quite sure this little book will be a favourite with all to
     whom it comes."--Compass.

Cloth bevelled boards, Seven Shillings and Sixpence; morocco,
                 Ten Shillings and Sixpence.

THE LIFE AND LESSONS OF OUR LORD, Unfolded and Illustrated.

     By the Rev. JOHN CUMMING, D.D., F.R.S.E. Illustrated with
     Twelve Coloured Plates, and Fifty-two First-class Engravings.

     "One of the most appropriate and acceptable gift-books which
     could be offered or received."--Times.

THE LIVES AND LESSONS OF THE PATRIARCHS.

     "It is exceedingly well got up, is beautifully and most
     profusely illustrated, and will form a most appropriate and
     useful present."--Brighton Examiner.

            BY THE REV. E. PAYSON HAMMOND, M.A.

JESUS AND THE LITTLE ONES.

     Showing how Little Children have learned to trust and love the
     Saviour, and how you may do the same.

     With Portrait and Illustrations, Two Shillings, cloth extra;
     limp cloth, One Shilling and Sixpence, or in Packet, price One
     Shilling.

                    Price Sixpence each.

SUNDAY PICTURE BOOKS.

     Each with Eight Plain and Two Coloured Illustrations. By the
     Author of "Doing and Suffering," and "Mothers in Council."

          OLD TESTAMENT.

     THE STORY OF ADAM AND EVE.
     THE STORY OF ABRAHAM.
     THE STORY OF JOSEPH.
     THE STORY OF MOSES.
     THE STORY OF SAMUEL.
     THE STORY OF DAVID.

          NEW TESTAMENT.

     THE CHILDHOOD OF JESUS.
     THE FRIENDS OF JESUS.
     THE PARABLES OF JESUS.
     CHRIST'S WONDERFUL WORKS.
     THE STORY OF THE CROSS.
     STORIES OF THE HOLY LAND.

     Simply and lovingly written, printed in large type, and
     profusely illustrated, these little books will be welcomed by
     the little ones in every home.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ |                
TRANSCRIBERS' NOTES                           | |                                         
| | General: corrections to punctuation and format not individually      | | noted        
| |                                                                      | | Page 4: enterprize
standardised to enterprise                        | |                                     
| | Page 10: No quotes in original around How long have ... their name?  | | etc. Replicated
in this version as it is believed to be intentional  | |                                  
| | Page 14: docrine corrected to doctrine                               | |              
| | Page 21: [alpha]-[epsilon] are the Greek letters in the original     | |              
| | Page 33: Chateau not standardised as it is part of a place-name      | |              
| | Page 34: characterised standardised to characterized                 | |              
| | Page 36: Vacherè standardised to Vachere                             | |              
| | Page 39: attemped corrected to attempted                             | |              
| | Pages 41, 55 Miraboc, Mirabouc not standardised as it is not clear   | | if they refer
to the same place                                      | |                                
| | Page 51: garisoned corrected to garrisoned                           | |              
| | Page 52: chalêt as in original                                       | |              
| | Page 76: l'Ombraile standardised to l'Ombraille                      | |              
| | Page 84: Palavacini standardised to Palavicini                       | |              
| | Page 87: Zenophon as in original                                     | |              
| | Page 94: assignd corrected to assigned                               | |              
| | Page 115: No quotes in original around You need ... the rest.        | | Replicated in
this version as it is believed to be intentional       | |                                
| | Page 116: Amount of 21,217,84 lires as in original                   | |              
| | Page 131: Brandenburgh standardised to Brandenburg; Barthelemei      | | standardised to
Barthélemi                                           | |                                  
| | Page 132: Claude, Seyssell re-indexed as Seyssel, Claude, for        | | consistency with
other index entries and the text; index entry for   | | Cutti, Count of refers to page for
Count Crotti in original;         | | Guignevert standardised to Guignivert               
| |                                                                      | | Page 133: Lago,
Maggiore re-indexed as Maggiore, Lago                | |                                  
| | Footnote A: Phillibert standardised to Philibert                     | |              
| | Footnote E: chateau standardised to château; aigulles corrected to   | | aiguilles    
| +----------------------------------------------------------------------+

